The first Shia theocracy in the 20th century was established in Iran following the Iranian Revolution in 1979, which led to the fall of the Shah of Iran.
He ordered the Iranian delegation to the UN to negotiate issues pending before the Security Council directly with the Soviet delegation.
The National Cartography Center of Iran (NCCC, Persian: سازمان نقشه برداری کشور) is the main organization for cartography in Iran.
He also announced plans to provide 14,000 houses to households with two disabled members through the foundation’s programs.
While their efforts went unanswered by both Iranian and international authorities and organizations, they searched for new ways to produce awareness of Iran's human rights violations and redefined legal boundaries to further the cause of justice.
Formation The establishment of the Imperial Inspectorate Organization was shaped by the context and factors primarily associated with the events and aftermath of the 1953 Iranian coup d'état.
The group itself also took part in insurgent activities, and is alleged to be involved in the killing of six British Royal Military Policemen in June 2003 by a mob in Majar al-Kabir, Maysan Governorate.
The Expediency Council is only meant to act on behalf of the legislative branch, although in reality it intercedes as a mediator between all bureaucratic branches, including the executive.
Yahya Ale Eshaq (Persian: یحیی آل‌اسحاق; born June 6, 1949 in Qom, origin from Zanjan) is an Iranian politician who served as minister of commerce in the cabinet of Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani from 1993 to 1997.
The Islamic Republican Party (IRP) which together with its Khomeinist allies had seized power and ousted all opponents, held an uncontested and single-party presidential election in October 1981 and got its candidate Ali Khamenei elected.
Abu'l-Fath al-Fadl ibn Ja'far ibn al-Furat (died 938), held several posts in the fiscal ministries of land revenue, vizier for a few months in 932 and in 937.
UAE has disputed Iran's sovereignty over Abu Musa, an island in the Persian Gulf that was agreed in a 1971 memorandum of understanding to be jointly administered with Iran for civil matters in the southern part of the island (called Jazirat-Abu-Musa in Arabic and Jazireh-ye-Abu-Musa in Persian).
The National Front was led by Majlis Member, Mohammed Mossadegh, whose leading ally in Parliament was the Assembly Speaker, Ayatollah Kashani.
After the revolution, it was dissolved in mid-1985 and the Youth and Adolescents Organization was formed.
He received his PhD from Imam Sadiq University in 2004 and now is a professor of communications at this university.
He involved in the discussions of a potential World Oil Bank involving Russia and Venezuela, and agreed on a cooperation protocol with the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
This card is intended to reduce the need for the more valuable Iranian identity booklet, which is issued at birth.
Sousan Keshavarz, Mohammad Aliabadi, and Fatemeh Ajorlou were not approved by Parliament for the Ministries of Education, Energy, and Welfare and Social Security respectively.
They find that the annual middle-class size would have been approximately 11 percentage points larger, on average, without the post-2012 sanctions.
The second attack took place on 6 December 2024, when another group of Australian arsonists firebombed the Adass Israel Synagogue in Melbourne, injuring one congregation member and dealing approximately A$45 million of property damage.
Key organizations of member states Member states are represented at the OPCW by their Permanent Representative.
September 2025 Visa Policy Update In September 2025, the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs revised its August 2025 visa policy, clarifying that the new restrictions apply only to citizens of European countries, Australia, New Zealand, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada.
That same year, Iran hosted the historic Ramsar Convention on Wetlands of International Importance, positioning the DOE as a pioneer in international environmental governance in the Global South.
Most international sanctions on Iran were lifted in 2016, following the implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action nuclear deal.
The incident sparked tensions with Iran; the Iranian government denounced Erdoğan's remarks as an act of challenging Iran's sovereignty, and a number of Iranian citizens protested at Turkish diplomatic missions in their country.
4 In view of Article (15) of the Act on the Organization and Support of the Production and Supply of Housing, approved on May 14, 2008, a 12 percent tax shall be applied to the transactional value of the undeveloped lands with residential use.
He was president of Torr International, a nanotechnology company headquartered in New Windsor, New York.
I believe part of the blame lies with the satellite dish issue at Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting.
A survey may be carried out by a flag State, or by a Classification Society who have been authorised by a flag State.
Chitgar was presented amongst many others, such as Iran's former prime minister Shapour Bakhtiar who had also been assassinated during his French exile .
He returned to Iran in 2005, recanting his statements, then migrated to the United Arab Emirates in 2011.
After great public outcry and journalistic investigation in Iran and publicity internationally, prosecutors announced in mid-1999 that one Saeed Emami had led "rogue elements" in Iran's intelligence ministry in the killings, but that Emami was now dead, having committed suicide in prison.
With an average wait time of 2 minutes and 5 seconds, the hotline directly answered 17,866 calls while automatically processing an additional 12,224 through its IVR system.
They sought to resist Western intervention and regime change efforts in the country, which they believe, if successful, would challenge their own influence in the region and potentially lead to regime change in Iran.
Under its charter, EDBI acts as the administrative arm of the Government of Iran to contribute to the national economy, through promoting non-oil export of goods and other technical and engineering services of Iranian origin and also to enhance economic cooperation with other countries.
In June 2004, the Supreme Court substituted a charge of "insulting religious values" for the blasphemy charge, and imposed a jail term of three years among other penalties.
This includes: implementing commercial strategies and regulations, promoting exports, development programs, import and export regulations, pricing of domestic commodities, domestic and international trade fairs and exhibitions.
The goal was to quell regional uprisings and modernize the Persian army, but as a result of pressure from Russia and the United Kingdom, Sweden decided to call back most of their officers during World War I.
The Shia Crescent is the notionally crescent-shaped region of the West Asia where the majority population is Shia or where there is a strong Shia minority in the population.
Iran agreed covertly to issue the loan and also invited selected Sri Lankan officers to train in Iran for the war.
Six of Irsan's children who were still minors were put in the custody of child protective services (CPS).
The organization was governed by a five-member High Council composed of experts selected by the Minister of Health, Treatment and Medical Education.
Hasanvand acknowledged to be a member of Ministry of Intelligence and National Security (Iran) during his first election campaign.
In 1943, Radio Tehran added another section to the number of its previous sections, and its program was increased by three hours in the mornings.
After election of Hassan Rouhani as President, Management and Planning Organization was restored in November 2014 and Mohammad Bagher Nobakht was appointed as its head.
Meanwhile, conservative Iranian politicians have criticized him for publicizing his inability to solve the improve condition for Iranian citizens.
During a February 2025 meeting between Khamenei and the IRGC, commanders pressured Khamenei to rescind his ban on nuclear weapons.
Qajar dynasty Naser al-Din Shah Mozaffar ad-Din Shah Ahmad Shah Pahlavi dynasty Reza Shah Mohammad Reza Shah See also List of international trips made by presidents of Iran Foreign relations of Iran References == External links ==
The United States dismissed announced a "draft accord" among permanent Security Council members for additional sanctions on Iran, designed to pressure it to end its nuclear enrichment program.
1968 – 8 August 1998) was an Iranian reporter, working for IRNA, as the news agency's head of office in Mazar-i-Sharif, Afghanistan.
Armenian names Armenian compound personal names often contain the element "šah," meaning "king" in Middle Persian and New Persian.
The government provided transgender persons financial assistance in the form of grants of up to 45 million rials $1,240 and loans up to 55 million rials $1,500 to undergo gender reassignment surgery.
The mechanism thus neutralized the potential veto power of Russia or China (or, conversely, the U.S., UK or France) if Iran were in material breach.
After the Iranian Revolution of 1979, which formed the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Majles was succeeded by the Islamic Consultative Assembly, and the Senate of Iran was abolished, making it once again a unicameral legislature.
As prior deputy managing director of the Foundation for Freedom, Growth and Development of Iran (BARAN Foundation, outlawed in 2011), he was arrested in December 2009 following the Ashura protests and held in Solitary confinement in Evin Prison.
During final years of the 1970s he served as Foreign-Affairs Adviser to prime ministers Amir Abbas Hoveyda, Jamshid Amouzegar and Jafar Sharif-Emami.
Hassan Yousefi Eshkevari, a religious scholar and journalist with Neshat and Iran-é-Farda, was imprisoned upon his return in August and tried before a Special Court for the Clergy beginning in October.
History Tasnim was founded on 30 June 2012 by Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) commander Hamidreza Moghaddamfar, board chairman Jafar Darouneh, and CEO Majid Qolizadeh Zahmatkesh.
Though the Free Palestine Movement's activity is mostly concentrated in Damascus, the organization is known to have committed forces to fronts in other regions of Syria as well.
Iranians who have served in the running or overseeing of Setad include Mohammad Javad Iravani, who took over as head of Setad in 1997, and Mohammad Mokhber, who became the CEO in 2007.
Ḥasan-ʿAli Ḥekmat, "Moḵtaṣar-i dar šarḥ-e zendegi-e ostād ʿAli-Aṣḡar-e Ḥekmat", unpublished pamphlet, Tehran, 1981.
Shah Abbas therefore opened negotiations with the Portuguese on Ormuz, although he made it clear he had no intention of handing back any of the places he had seized.
List Legend Reformist (7) Principlist (4) Military (0) References The Governors General of Iran's provinces were elected in the government of Ebrahim Raisi.
As such the tribunal proceedings may be considered as finalized per the date of establishing the foundation.
The Supreme Leader of Iran has the power to dismiss cabinet members like ministers, vice presidents and presidents at any time, regardless of parliamentary decisions.
The legal code is now based on Islamic law or sharia, although many aspects of civil law have been retained, and it is integrated into a civil law legal system.
Ta'zir imprisonment is a type of imprisonment that is written and executed, differing from Hadd imprisonment (divine limits prescribed by Islamic law).
History Traditionally in Shia Islam, an ayatollah has an office (bayt), often run by his son, to communicate and advise his followers on religious issues and to organize matters such as the collecting and distributing of charity.
After a few years, the building was given to the Iranian Police Criminal Investigation Department of Tabriz.
Fatiha stated the Coastal Shield Brigade would take responsibility for any operations done against Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham in the Latakia Governorate.
Mothers of Khavaran were the first to call for the release of prisoners and warn of their possible massacre.
His desire to study religious sciences led him to the Shahid Morteza Motahhar High School in Tehran in 1360.
On June 29, 2004, IAEA Director General Mohammad ElBaradei announced that the Bushehr reactor was "not of international concern" since it was a bilateral Russian-Iranian project intended to produce nuclear energy.
According to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, at least 35 Iran-backed militiamen were killed in the strikes in Syria including 16 fighters of the Iraqi Popular Mobilization Forces and 4 fighters of the Afghan Fatemiyoun brigade and 1 of the Zainabiyoun brigade.
He holds a bachelor's degree in law, a master's degree and a doctorate in law from the Faculty of Law and Political Science, University of Tehran, and a master's degree in management from Indiana University.
Voters were required to give name, address and the number and place of issuance of his identity card.
Background Iranian opposition has divided been for decades, consisting of diverse ideological groups including republicans, monarchists, and various civic society movements.
Later, she established an elementary school for Afghan refugees in Iran while she was working as Officer in Charge in Refugees' Cultural Center.
Before the referendum, some political groups suggested various names consonant with the ideology of the revolution, such as a Republic or a Democratic Republic.
The Swedish Security Service (SÄPO) was severely criticised for having obstructed the criminal investigation carried out by the local Swedish police by withholding important information.
According to a report by Le Figaro, Western intelligence sources claimed in 2015 that Khamenei had prostate cancer with two years left to live.
Certain analysts believe the campaign failed to change Iran's regional activities or counter Iran's proxy influence in the region, force Iran to renegotiate the nuclear deal and hinder its nuclear and missile programs.
However, under article 235, if the active partner is non-Muslim and the passive partner is non-Muslim, the penalty is execution.
However, an increasing inclination of using the library by the researches and scholars, prompted a faster growth to the library.
It is a subdivision of the Ministry of Industry, Mine and Trade, which was established in 1962 in cooperation with United Nations.
HispanTV has foreign journalists from Argentina, Chile, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Russia, Spain, and Venezuela.
A doctor, Yaser Rahmani–Rad, stated to Sky News that his network of doctors had previously estimated 20 to 30 thousand protest-related deaths, and at the time of the interview, published on 29 January, judged that the true value "could be higher".
Socially, the group was heterogeneous, including: Arab tribal settlers from Basra and Kufa Mawālī (clients of Arab tribes) Iranian converts and local elites integrated into the Abbasid military structure This composition reflects the broader social coalition that underpinned the Abbasid Revolution.
Implementation The representatives of the interim agreement parties announced that implementation of the interim agreement would begin on 20 January 2014.
The other candidate for the post of deputy speaker was Mohammad-Hassan Aboutorabi Fard, a representative from Qazvin who became the second deputy speaker with 173 votes.
Architecture The building has an area of about 9,600 square meters and 6,500 square meters of infrastructure built on three floors.
Mousavi Faraz's father was Seyyed-Akbar Havaei, who was a draper who encouraged his son to go to a hawzah.
Due to political problems with North Korea, freight from South Korea must currently be shipped by sea to the port of Vladivostok to access the route.
Mothers Riahi, Qaedi, the Zakipour family, Mothers Okhovat, Vatankhah, Rezaie Jahromi, Nader, Bazargan, Zargar, Mother and Father Mir Arab, Mothers Abkenari, Bazargan, Sadeqi, Jasm, Tonkaboni, and Mother Sarhaddi and her extended family continue to frequent and preserve this historic site.
Russia Ahmadinejad has moved to strengthen relations with Iran's northern neighbor Russia, setting up an office expressly dedicated to the purpose in October 2005.
He studied at Gorgan in 371/981, then in Nishapur, but he eventually made his home in Baghdad, where he studied under prominent scholars of his time.
Personal life Elham's spouse, Fatemeh Rajabi, is a journalist known for her support for Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and also for her fierce criticism of former-presidents Akbar Rafsanjani and Mohammad Khatami.
Poetry Although Bahār was a 20th-century poet, his poems are quite traditional and decidedly patriotic.
In Lebanon, Hezbollah marks the occasion by organizing a substantive military parade for the last week of each Ramadan.
According to the head of the vaccine production team at the SETAD, the results show that this vaccine also neutralizes the British mutated COVID-19 virus.
Prominent attendees included far right political activist David Duke, revisionist historical scholar Robert Faurisson and Haredi Rabbi and anti-Zionist activist Yisroel Dovid Weiss among others.
He then served as one of the 12 members of the Guardian Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran for eight years.
The Financial Times reported that such action could cause oil prices to surge beyond the recent 7–14% increases, possibly exceeding $100 to $150 per barrel.
In 2008, the then chief of Iran's judiciary, Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi, ordered a fresh investigation and did not sanction her execution ruling that her initial conviction (based as it was on a confession she made under duress) was unacceptable.
Initially, the organization was known as SAVAMA, and intended to replace SAVAK, Iran's intelligence agency during the rule of the Shah, but it is unclear how much continuity there is between the two organizations—while their role is similar, their underlying ideology is radically different.
Functions The Islamic Consultative Assembly holds the authority to legislate laws on all matters within the boundaries defined by the Constitution.
Nonetheless, the relation between the two countries remain tense, with Iran seeing Jordan's alliance with the West as a threat, and there being little economic cooperation between the two countries.
Mousavi's removal from his post at the academy has provoked outrage from his colleagues, with 27 of 30 faculty members threatening to resign in solidarity.
The most notable members of the family were: Abu'l-Abbas Ahmad ibn Muhammad ibn Musa ibn al-Hasan ibn al-Furat (died 904), chief fiscal minister of the caliphs al-Mu'tadid and al-Muktafi until his death.
(Persian: فهرست نمایندگان دوره چهارم مجلس خبرگان رهبری, romanized: Fehreste nâmâyandegân dore chahârom majles-e khobregân-e rahbari) consists of names of the members during the fourth term of the Assembly of Experts from 2006 to 2016.
Other standards to consider include allowing for interoperability: Railway electrification – 25 kV AC the world standard for new long distance and heavy duty construction since the 1950s.
According to Article 131, when the presidency is vacant or the president is unable to perform his duties, the first vice president assumes the role, subject to the supreme leader's approval.
When Ruhollah Khomeini returned home from exile, the Mansouroun group was tasked with protecting the revolutionary leader.
A referendum on the dissolution of Parliament, the first referendum ever held in Iran, was held in August 1953.
Heads Mohammad-Ali Rahmani (1991-2007) Aboutorab Bahrami (2007-2018) Alireza Adyani (2018-2025) Ali Shirazi (2025-present) == References ==
History In 1964, the Medical Council was first legislated by the Iranian Parliament which has been amended eight times in the following years.
He also called on Iran to take the opportunity to "proceed to peace and harmony in the region", and said that he "will enthusiastically encourage Israel to do the same".
Ebrahim Rezaei Babadi (Persian: ابراهیم رضایی بابادی, born 1955 in Abadan) is an Iranian politician, and the president of Touring & Automobile Club of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
When the killing of Iranian military advisor Kioumars Pourhashemi by a Syrian Army officer became known in Aleppo, this resulted in the mutiny or defection of numerous militias and formations, including the Baqir Brigade.
Film The Iranian film When the Moon Was Full, written and directed by Narges Abyar in 2019, which won several awards at the Fajr International Film Festival, tells the story of AbdolHamid Rigi and his wife.
An advocate for the division of sciences based on epistemology, Mirbaqiri propses that sciences can be categorized as religious or non-religious.
In December 2015, at the 29th International Islamic Unity Conference in Tehran, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani called on Muslim countries to unite and strive to improve Islam's public image, adding that "There is neither a Shiite nor a Sunni crescent.
The first aircraft in service was the RT-33, followed by the more advanced F-5 and F-4 reconnaissance aircraft.
While not an ultimate aim per se, nationalism was seen as an instrument of anti-colonialist practices.
The amount of power the holder of the post had, fluctuated quite significantly throughout the centuries.
With the approval of the Direct Tax Law of 1966, it was decided to form the Association of Certified Public Accountants, effectively collapsing the legal basis of the Association of Certified Public Accountants.
It was further reported that the Government of Sri Lanka declined a request from the United States to permit the landing of two US military aircraft at Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport.
But the legitimacy of Sheikh Fazlollah Noori, after nearly a century, became the foundation for drafting the text of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Statute of the Islamic Consultative Assembly of Iran after the Islamic Revolution of Iran in February 1979.
now after the attack on Qatar by Israeli Forces Qatar is now approaching towards The Arab leaders Like MBS's Saudi Arabia to increase security corporation Russia Russia has been aligned with Iran and Syria for years.
Javanfekr is at present (27 February 2012) Presidential Advisor of Press Affairs and according to IRNA heads the official Islamic Republic News Agency and the Iran Press and Cultural Institute affiliated to IRNA.
According to the historian Martin Sprengling, Sulayman was well-versed in Arabic and Greek, as evidenced by the role he was assigned by Caliph Abd al-Malik as the katib (secretary) for official correspondence.
He was the first non-Christian diplomat at the General Assembly in New York and served as Iran ambassador to the United States until 1952, when he was removed and replaced by Allah-Yar Saleh under Prime Minister Mohammad Mosaddegh.
The funds and assets of the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines (IRISL) were frozen and servicing of Iranian vessels inhibited.
'Possessors of Might'), previously known as the Southern Liberation Front (Arabic: جبهة تحرير الجنوب, romanized: Jabhat taḥrīr al-Janūb), is a militant organization established in response to the fall of the Assad regime and the ongoing Israeli invasion of Syria.
The Iraqi president, Saddam Hussein at the time, tore up the 1975 Algerian agreement by appearing in front of Iraqi television cameras, announcing the start of the Ba'athist regime's invasion of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Since 2011, AAH has assassinated Iraqi political opponents, killed civilian protesters, and continued attacks on U.S.
The National Post later retracted the original article and published an article, to the contrary ("Experts say report of badges for Jews in Iran is untrue").
There was extended debate about whether the bunker buster bombs would actually be able to destroy Fordow.
Biography Hedayat was born in Tehran on 8 June 1800 to a renowned family which was descended from the prominent 14th-century lyric-poet Kamal Khujandi.
The Islamic Republic of Iran Air Defense Force plays a crucial role in the nation's military framework, tasked with safeguarding Iran's airspace and essential infrastructure from aerial threats.
According to the report, a martial arts champion told an American diplomat that the Iranian government forces martial arts instructors to train the IRGC and Basij personnels and even participate in the suppression of opposition protests.
It is suspected that the new government was initially eager to purge SAVAK elements from the new organization, but that pragmatism eventually prevailed, with many experienced SAVAK personnel being retained in their roles.
The ideology of the Resistance Economy, with its core concepts of self-sufficiency, proclaims that the Islamic Republic can survive — and indeed flourish — despite the US-led sanctions.
On October 1, 2020, while meeting with the NAJA and the Intelligence Ministry of Iran, he believes that law enforcement should make, "the life of the unveiled unsafe".
Responding to negative reactions to Mostaan 110, IRGC spokesman Ramezan Sharif defended the IRGC's claims, saying the device had been tested for at least 10 days in at least 10 hospitals and treatment centers for coronary patients in the country more than 10 days before its official unveiling.
Due to the nature of its frequency, it can detect low-Radar cross-section targets such as stealth aircraft and cruise missiles with low accuracy at shorter ranges.
Transgender community Transgender people have formed non-governmental organizations and support groups in Iran.
He held this position until 1997 when he was replaced by Bijan Namdar Zanganeh after the election of the reformist president Mohammad Khatami.
However, Iranian president Muhammad Khatami had strongly opposed the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia in 1999 and condemned NATO harshly.
List of ministers See also Cabinet of Iran Government of Iran Industry of Iran Economy of Iran References External links Official Website
Azra Jafari (Dari: عذرا جعفری; born 1978 or 1979) is an Afghan politician and women's rights advocate who became the first female mayor in Afghanistan appointed by President Hamid Karzai in December 2008.
Professor Fereydoun Ala is the founder of the "Iranian Blood Transfusion Organization" and it can be said that he is the most experienced employee of the Blood Transfusion Organization.
It was the first time since Iraq's 1991 missile strikes that Israel was directly attacked by a state force.
Hoveyda was the minister of finance in the previous cabinet, and it was his first premiership which would last until 1977.
The Central Bank has developed the Real Time Gross Settlement System (SATNA) as the main center for settlement of Iranian banks' transactions in rial.
In such circumstances, it was natural to try to take into account both Islamic considerations and national interests.
The 1979 Constitution designated the supreme leader as the head of state and the president and prime minister as the heads of government.
The Ministry of Agriculture Jihad (Persian: وزارت جهاد کشاورزی Vezārat-e Jehād-e Kešâvarzi) is an Iranian government body established in 2001 responsible for the oversight of Agriculture in Iran.
In a video clip featuring the image of the former leader of the Lebanese Hezbollah group Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah, Abbas Shield Martyrdom Forces, Ya Ali Popular Formations and the Kataib Sarkhat al-Quds have threatened to take action in Syria and against the United States.
Cuba–Iran relations, which are characterized by economic and diplomatic cooperation, are quite friendly.
The pilot was shot in mid-air parachuting toward land by Syrian Turkmen rebels under Syrian Turkmen Brigades.
According to him, the strategy of Look to the East causes Iranian to pay a lot of financial ransom to the countries of the East for playing as broker in the world market.
Other historians, such as Hugh Kennedy, emphasize their role as a military aristocracy that evolved from the Abbasid revolutionary coalition into a hereditary elite.
The torch was passed from the old war heroes to younger educated technocrats to carry out the "White Revolution" and an explosive decade of growth.
Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (ASIO) director Mike Burgess said he believes Iran was also responsible for more antisemitic attacks in the country.
Under President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani in 1989, the two ministries were merged into one in order to cease parallel work and reduce interservice rivalry.
In Mashhad he became familiar with local clerics who were associated with the millenarian Shaykhí denomination of Shia Islam and was attracted to Shaykhí doctrine.
Stephanie Cronin of the University of Oxford describes corruption under the rule of Reza Shah as "large-scale".
It works mainly with Iranian corporations and government departments and Ministry of Defense, Ministry of Industry, and Iranian Armed Forces.
Behrooz Moazami also argues that it was one of the cabinets which did not follow the political agenda of the Shah in addition to the cabinets of Mohammad Mosaddegh and those of Ahmad Qavam in the Pahlavi rule.
After completing his preparatory studies at the same school, he studied the levels of rational and traditional sciences.
There was some debate about whether the aim of the boycott was to oppose segregation in sport or apartheid in general, with the latter view prevailing in later decades.
The organisers of the 1980 and 1984 Paralympics acceded to their governments' demands not to invite South Africa, but through to 1983 it continued to compete in the non-Paralympic ISMGs at Stoke Mandeville.
Irsan was given a warning and allowed to leave after he stated he was trying to get a drink to deal with a diabetic condition.
The National Front of Iran had announced in a statement on December 29, 1978 that if Bakhtiar accepted the post of Prime Minister of Iran, he would be expelled from the party.
These groups, all of them espousing Anti-Zionism, are known to attack Israeli civilians within Israeli territory and are known to use terrorism.
The premiership of Mohammad Mosaddegh began when his first government was formed on 28 April 1951 and ended on 19 August 1953, when his second government was overthrown by the American–British backed coup d'état.
Iranian social media was also united "in saying Erdoğan must refer to Iran's history, which spans thousands of years, before supporting separation." On 11 December, Iranian foreign minister Javad Zarif stated on Twitter: Pres.
Coastal Shield Brigade (Arabic: لواء درع الساحل, romanized: Liwāʼ Dirʻ al-Sāḥil) is a Syrian Assadist militant organization formed in January 2015.
See also Iranian Cultural Revolution Politics of Iran Iranian Revolution General Culture Council (Iran) Supreme Leader Representation in Universities (organization) External links Official website of Supreme Council of the Cultural Revolution == References ==
The legal profession According to Banakar and Ziaee, the history of the Iranian Bar Association (Kānūn-e Vūkalā-yeh Dādgūstarī) "can be traced back to the period after the 1906 Constitutional Revolution, when a modern legal system was established in Iran.
The National Front was led by Mohammed Mossadegh, who became prime minister within two months of Razmara's assassination.
This was "widely interpreted" (according to Radio Farda) as an invitation to his supporters to attack the non-hardline government of Hassan Rouhani.
In accordance with the instructions of the late Ruhollah Khomeini, one must not overrule the approved issues of this council.
Even though the battles were bloody and Swedish officers were at serious risk in Persia, many decided to join the gendarmes attracted by better pay and opportunities than in Sweden.
Following a second incident on June 17 in the Gulf of Oman in which two oil tankers caught fire after allegedly being attacked by limpet mines or by flying objects, the U.S.
Such reporting has allowed Al Alam to promote a pan-Muslim image in order to downplay the Shia-Sunni sectarian conflict during the height of Operation Iraqi Freedom.
The main functions of OPCP are: protecting and promoting domestic production; protecting consumers against unusual price fluctuations; monitoring, adjusting and controlling the price of products and services; The Government Trading Company (GTC) The GTC is affiliated to the Ministry of Commerce.
Some of the outstanding features of the complex are as follows: Affiliation of the complex to the shrine of Imam Reza Manuscripts of very long life, artifacts and museum objects, dating back 1000 years.
Recruitment of foreign militias The presence of state-sponsored foreign militias, namely the Iraqi Popular Mobilisation Forces, Arabic-speaking mercenaries, Lebanese Hezbollah, the Pakistani Liwa Zainabiyoun, and the Afghan Liwa Fatemiyoun, in suppressing protests was reported.
A few Persian love poems and texts from prominent medieval Persian poet Saadi Shirazi's Bustan and Gulistan have also been interpreted as homoerotic poems.
Mehr publishes all content on its website under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license.
The money would be used to aid "families of the martyrs, veterans, the missing, prisoners of war and the downtrodden." According to Reuters, one of the three co-founders of Setad, Mehdi Karoubi, wrote in 2009 that the organization was intended "to operate for no more than two years".
He deliberately returned just before the end of the 14th term, and expressed his regret for lack of time with "sardonic humor", in the last parliamentary session, when his ministers were approved.
The NOPO acronym had been claimed to be an acronym for "Wilayat Guardian Special Force" (Persian: نیروی ویژه پاسدار ولایت, romanized: Nīrū-yi Vizhe-yi Pāsdār-i Vilāyat) by reformist media in late 1990s; the association was denied.
He graduated as a doctor in 1915, the same year as the city's population was violently massacred by the Ottoman Empire during the Armenian genocide.
In February 2018, the brigade was involved in the Battle of Khasham along with Russian Wagner Group and Interbrigades against the US special forces and the US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces and lost many fighters.
The Qare'a (disposable) rocket launcher (Persian: راکت‌انداز یکبارمصرف قارعه) is an Iranian lightweight composite material disposable rocket launcher which has been designed in order to target fortifications.
As distinct from the UNESCO Convention, the UNIDROIT Convention focuses on the recovery of cultural property.
Many groups have later claimed to be the Baluchi Autonomist Movement's successors, including Jundallah (Iran), Hizbul Furqan, Jaish al-Adl, Ansar Al-Furqan.
18th of August 2016 PDKI and Iran clashed in the city of Shno On 7 September 2016, according to KDP-I statement, at least 2 KDP-I members were killed in an ambush by Iranian border guards near Sardasht.
In response, the UAE's Foreign Ministry summoned Iran's chargé d'affaires on 16 August and criticized Rouhani's speech as "unacceptable and inflammatory" which could impact the security scenario of the Gulf.
He claimed that his goal was to "improve conditions for ethnic Baluchis", and that his group was "fighting exclusively for the rights of Sunni Muslims in Iran".
However, one Georgian chronicle says he was a friend of equity, trustful in his language, a deep thinker, and profound in counsel.
Many were relocated to Iraq, particularly to the newly founded capital of Baghdad under Caliph al-Mansur, where they became known as the abnāʾ al-dawla.
It set a timetable starting in 2006 for negotiations to establish emission reduction commitments for a second commitment period.
He also ordered the crackdown on the revolt of Colonel Pessian which he crushed with the aid of Reza Pahlavi.
Sciences and arts and the most advanced results of human experience, together with the effort to advance them further; 3.Negation of all forms of oppression, both the infliction of and the submission to it, and of dominance, both its imposition and its acceptance.
List of controlled psychotropic substances Source: INCB Green List (28th Edition, 2017) Statistics All Schedules consist of 174 positions and common generalization clause for salts.
Tafazzoli was close to Ashraf Pahlavi and Abdolhossein Hazhir and was trusted by the Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi.
In Japan, the incident front-page news, reported as an unarmed private company picking a fight with the Royal Navy, which boasted the second largest naval force in the world at the time.
The Iran agreement has come despite determined hostility from conservatives within the United States, Israel, Saudi Arabia, the Gulf states, and Iran.
Market traders were influential during the 1979 Islamic Revolution, helping to mobilise public support that ultimately led to the overthrow of the monarchy.
History Islamic Republic of Iran Following the Iranian Revolution of 1979, the Senate of Iran was abolished and effectively succeeded by the Guardian Council, maintaining the bicameral structure of the Iranian legislature.
He held the governorship of Bushehr and Southern Ports and Ommanat in several periods until shortly after World War I.
This would be the first time that official armed units of sovereign states are included in a list of banned terrorist groups.
A large Mongol army led by Arghun Aqa invaded Georgia from the south, inflicted a heavy defeat on David and Sargis I Jaqeli in a battle near Akhaldaba, and then brutally plundered the country.
The Presidential Administration of Iran (Persian: نهاد ریاست‌جمهوری ایران), including the Office of the President of Iran, consists of the immediate staff of the President of Iran and multiple levels of support staff reporting to the President.
Cook writes that "according to a thirteenth-century geographer, a custom was observed each year in Gilan in the north of Iran, [whereby] scholars would seek permission from the ruler to command right.
Subordinate of General Staff of Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran, the university is dedicated to doctoral-level work on military doctrine, applied defense sciences and management.
The Shah's statement The amendment conclude with the following statements from the Shah: "In the Name of God, blessed and exalted is He." "The complementary provisions of the Fundamental Code of Laws have been perused and are correct.
He was also Minister of Interior in Hassan Rouhani's government and the president of the Supreme Audit Court from 2008 to 2013.
In 2011, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad made a speech at the United Nations General Assembly during which he said that the only correct name of the sea between Iran and the Arabian peninsula was the Persian Gulf, and he dismissed the use of any other names as "illegitimate and void".
In the resolution, Iran was banned from transferring, importing, and exporting arms, sensitive nuclear material and equipment, and missiles or missile systems for the duration specified.
In exchange, Iran imported 130 tonnes of uranium ore in 2015 and in late 2016 was approved to import 130 tonnes in 2017.
Mauritania: Mauritania expressed its "firm condemnation and denunciation of this aggression", claiming it undermines the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Qatar and expressing "full solidarity" with the State of Qatar, its leaders and its people.
The Asia and Pacific region's aggregate emissions were 7.9 billion tonnes, with per capita emissions of 2.6 tonnes.
Officials at the voting booth in favor of the motion reportedly did not check identity cards or stamp voter's hands to indicate having submitted a ballot, leading to accusations of voter fraud.
In 1967, the club evolved into the Game Council, and just four years later, in 1971, the modern Department of Environment was established.
Career In the post World War II era, Mansour started his political career by entering the foreign ministry and completed several internal and foreign assignments including tours of Germany and France.
Bahār became an active member of the Mashhad branch of Anjoman-e Sa'ādat (Society for Prosperity) that campaigned for establishment of Parliament of Iran (Majles).
The Coalition said: "there is no way for us to accept a non-balanced dialogue that lacks all guarantees, we see this dialogue as a media tool which the regime aims to reduce the severity of popular and international pressures".
Although the 1906 Constitution established a bicameral legislature, the Majles remained the only (unicameral) legislative chamber until the 1949 Constituent Assembly, in which the Senate of Iran was formed as the upper house, making the Majles the lower house.
Hamid Mowlana (Persian: حمید مولانا, Hamid Molana, born in Tabriz, East Azerbaijan, Iran) is an Iranian-American author and academic.
List of ministers The cabinet was consisted of the following sixteen members: Reshuffles and next cabinet Minister of Agriculture Hasan Arsanjani resigned from the office on 9 March 1963 and was replaced by Ismail Riahi.
Coordination of political activities, intelligence, social, cultural and economic fields relating to general policies of defense and national security.
Most recently, the form xšāyaθiya has been analyzed as a genuine, inherited Persian formation with the meaning 'pertaining to reigning, ruling'.
Between 1998 and 2002, Iran imported approximately 6 JY-14 surveillance radars from the China National Electronics Import-Export Corporation.
The Cooperative Foundation of the Revolutionary Guards) is a Bonyad in Iran, under control of Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
In early September 2017, large protests erupted in Kurdish cities in West Iran following the killing of two Kurdish men by Iranian security forces at the border.
That is why the castle was built on the highest point of the city of Khorramabad, so that the wind could penetrate the building and dry its foundations.
Al-Mustafa International University created a website with the letter and translation in various languages along with feedback and reactions from youth in different countries.
Parties to the convention have agreed to a process by which persistent toxic compounds can be reviewed and added to the convention, if they meet certain criteria for persistence and transboundary threat.
Involvement in governance and civil affairs Prior to the collapse of the Assad regime, the militia also took part in civil politics.
Education Ayatollah Ja'far Sobhani learned Arabic literature, Principles of Islamic jurisprudence in the Islamic Seminary.
Compiled by Ahad Gudarziani, the book was published by Sureh Mehr Publication, and the title comes from the opening sentence of a letter.
Iranian judiciary refuted the allegations, stating Soltani was charged with "colluding against national security" and "propaganda activities against the establishment," offenses which are not punishable by the death penalty in Iran.
He has also served as a visiting professor or guest scholar in Africa, Asia, Europe, and Latin America.
sanctions, especially after Iran's production of near-weapons-grade uranium and reduced cooperation with inspectors.
The activities of the GTC regarding the procurement of essential commodities are regulated by the statute "the Government Procurement Concerning the Supply of Basic Products and Foodstuffs Essential to the Public from Foreign Sources".
He also stated that the actions of the United States were "plung[ing] humanity into a crisis with irreversible consequences." See also Foreign relations of Cuba Foreign relations of Iran == References ==
Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama announced on 7 September 2022 that Albania would cut diplomatic relations with Iran in retaliation for a major cyber attack by Iran on the country.
The nature of this thinking - the export of the revolution - is the negation of oppression and tyranny and the denial of silence and passive attitude.
See also List of prime ministers of Iran Prime Minister of Iran Sepahsalar Mosque References The Cambridge History of Iran 7; Peter Avery; Cambridge University Press, 1991 The History of Iran (The Greenwood Histories of the Modern Nations); Elton L.
Assistance in providing the country's construction materials through production, supply, distribution.
External links Iran's 1906 Constitution and Its Supplement Constitution of Iran, 1906 (in Persian) Constitutional Revolution from Iran Chamber Society
On September 03, 2020, Iranian Defense Minister Brigadier General Amir Hatami said his country is capable of manufacturing more than 38,000 military equipment and hardware parts.
Khomeini demanded all armed groups to become part of one revolutionary organization and requested that Kurdish soldiers "return" their weapons.
Mohammad Ali Varasteh, Abdollah Entezam and Ala personally expressed their concerns about Shah's policies and their potential results which made all of them outsiders in the court of the Shah.
List of ministers The cabinet was consisted of the following ten members: Reshuffles The cabinet saw several reshuffles.
This is a list of foreign heads of state, heads of government who have visited the Iran, which is classified by the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs as either a state visit, official visit, or working visit.
In January 1922, he went to Moscow as a state representative to negotiate a friendship agreement, remaining there for one and a half years.
Certain western countries that unlawfully possess nuclear weapons want to keep the monopoly of nuclear fuel production for themselves.
The Kurds also had a three-man delegation: Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou, his aide Abdullah Ghaderi Azar (a member of the PDKI Central Committee) and Fadhil Rassoul, an Iraqi Kurdish university professor who had acted as a mediator.
On 6 May 2011, it was reported that Ahmadinejad had been given an ultimatum to accept the leader's intervention or resign, and on 8 May he "apparently bowed" to the reinstatement, welcoming back Moslehi to a cabinet meeting.
Mohammad Hossein's son, Mohammad Ibrahim Khan Nazir ol-Dowleh, married one of the Fath Ali Shah's daughters (Khadijeh Soltan Begom, "Esmat-ed-Dowleh) and Khan's daughter married Hossein Ali Mirza Farmanfarma, governor of Shiraz.
Staff testing body temperatures prior to the meeting requested Amirabadi and two other members of parliament to excuse themselves from the meeting and self-quarantine.
Javad Hajizadeh Koljahi (Persian: جواد حاجی زاده کلجاهی (born in 1958 in Kalahjah) is a Shiite cleric and Friday prayer leader of Maragheh who was elected as a representative of East Azerbaijan Province in the sixth session of the Assembly of Experts by winning 198,687 votes.
Following several years of development, the convention was adopted by the International Maritime Organization in 2004.
He was discharged in January 1907 after Mohammad Ali Shah Qajar came to power, but was reinstated in August 1907.
The IRGC is officially recognized as a component of the Iranian military under Article 150 of the Iranian Constitution.
The plan is designed to meet the requirements for compliance with the Convention and the G4 Guidelines produced by the IMO.
This included efforts to restrict Iran's oil export bringing it down to zero, as well as intensify sanctions, essentially reviving the hard line approach from his first administration.
While often characterized as a "pragmatic conservative" in foreign policy, his domestic record was marked by the oversight of significant crackdowns on civil unrest.
Mohammad Movahedi Azad, Iran's attorney general, warned that protesters are an "enemy of God", a crime punishable by death under Iranian law.
This regulatory organization has the power to issue a warning to doctors as well as certain allied health workers, suspend and even revoke their license to practice.
The original factory, built by the US Textron company, was to produce Bell 214s of different configurations in Iran with a deal that involved several hundred helicopters and technology transfers.
Then, at the same time as the US embassy in Tehran was captured, the US consulate in Tabriz was also occupied by the revolutionary invaders.
The cabinet led by Hossein Ala' was formed on 20 March 1951 two weeks after the assassination of Prime Minister Haj Ali Razmara.
Khorram was the Minister of Roads and Transportation under President Mohammad Khatami, until 3 October 2004, when he was impeached by the Majlis of Iran by 188 votes out of 258 present members of the parliament.
Many served as: Provincial governors Military commanders كبار court officials Prominent families of Khurasani origin became influential in Baghdad politics.
Benefits and services The organization administers statutory benefits including old-age pensions, disability and survivor pensions, unemployment insurance, workplace injury compensation, and health insurance coverage through affiliated medical facilities.
The institute was established in 1997 under the supervision of the Presidential Administration of Iran.
While awaiting execution, Barak was interviewed by several journalists about his crimes, during which he continued to proclaim that he had acted out of his own accord and gave accurate details of each crime scene.
It is a smoothbore and barrel-loading mortar with 360° field of firing and can be taken apart and carried by infantry.
Rawzat al-Montaha fi Mawled al-Imam al-Shafi'i References Bibliography Brown, Jonathan (30 September 2007).
Mahsa Amini protests Since September 2022, when the death of Mahsa Amini incited protests across the country, the prison has served both as a holding place for arrested protesters and as a site of protest against the execution of prisoners.
The constitution stipulated that all Prime Minister must be subject to a vote in parliament for both approval and removal.
A tablet was addressed by the Báb to each of the Letters of the Living, including Bastámí; no translation of this tablet into English exists at present.
With nine research groups in various fields of meteorology, this research institute conducts studies and researches related to pure meteorological science and recognizes, expands and presents their applications.
The missile is named after Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis, an Iraqi companion of Qasem Soleimani who was killed in an American airstrike in 2020.
According to Kurdish human rights activists in Iranian Kurdistan, Iranian security forces killed two civilians, who were working as porters, overnight on 27 June in Alan area of Sardasht city, West Azerbaijan province of Iran, on the border between Iran and Kurdistan Region.
Personal life In 1894, Iskandar married Maryam Davidkhanian, the daughter of another General, Martiros Khan Davidkhanian.
Anti-American activities According to the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, Vahidi's time at the IRGC is "replete with efforts to kill Americans" coinciding with threats from Tehran toward US personnel.
History After the 2003 Invasion of Iraq, ex-Badr commander Abu Mustafa al-Sheibani set up his own logistics, arms, and financing network using his connections with the Badr Organisation, which he also supplied.
May 2003: Three people killed and eighty-three injured in a suicide bombing at a shopping mall in Afula.
Organization According to available sources, the group's leader was Youssef Al-Hamdan, also known as Abu Issa Al-Masshadani.
Bournoutian mentions that this work "not only exposes multiple falsifications but also, based on a thorough research of Nizami's works, proves that Nizami was without doubt an Iranian poet".
The National Organization for Passive Defense (Persian: سازمان پدافند غیر عامل کشور) is an Iranian government bureau for civil defense in the country.
It was also seen as a way to improve the economies and accessibility of landlocked countries like Laos, Afghanistan, Mongolia, and the Central Asian republics.
Bill Data Corporations are required by law to safeguard Iranian users' private data; though it also requires National Information Network's "sanitation", prevention, countering and detection of cyber crime and obeying courts and Iranian judicial system orders'.
The ministry was finally founded on 18 August 1983, either abandoning, silently subsuming, or relegating to hidden existence many small intelligence agencies that had been formed in different governmental organizations.
It also caused significant opposition against him led by Atesh and its editor Mehdi Mir Ashrafi and Mard-i Imruz and its editor Mohammad Masud who publicly argued that Qavam should be killed due to the oil deal with the Soviets.
He has been described as a "chain smoker" and having a "gaunt face with a serious demeanor." Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini described him "Abu Dhar al-Ghifari in the time" in the message on the occasion of his death: "He was for Islam, Abuzar of the time.
He was secretary of the Expediency Discernment Council from 1997 to 2021 and Vice President of Iran for Economic Affairs between 2021 and 2023.
According to this theory, the Islamic world is a single nation and the criterion for the unity of the nation is its leadership.
The Convention set out the rights and obligations of the parties, including the waters, water bed, subsoil, natural resources, and airspace above the sea.
He received a vote of confidence from the 11th convocation of the Islamic Consultative Assembly (Iranian parliament) on June 23, 2021, with 187 votes in favor, 58 votes against, 8 abstentions and 2 invalid votes.
'Great Army Leader'), is the ultimate authority of all the Islamic Republic of Iran Armed Forces, and the highest possible military position within the Islamic Republic of Iran.
In 1995, after receiving a definite license for its first research institute called "Meteorological Research Institute", it officially started working.
Ahmadinejad has said he respects Jews and that "in Palestine there are Muslims, Christians and Jews who live together".
She campaigned for women's suffrage from within the Women's Organization, giving public lectures and writing on the subject.
the developing countries of Asia and South America) to suppress illicit supply, but also the duty of consumer countries (e.g.
shipping in the Persian Gulf will be Iran's first targets and they will be burned." In the last week of July, in Operation Brimstone, dozens of U.S., and naval ships from other countries, came to undertake joint exercises for possible military activity in the shallow waters off the coast of Iran.
On 21 August, the Islamic Consultative Assembly approved the nomination of Pezeshkian's entire cabinet, the first time it had done since 2001.
He was a hardliner administrator and banned some of the newspapers which had been published in the region.
It was decided that the Banknote and Coin Production Organization, in coordination with the Vision Document Preservation Commission at the council's secretariat, would use the Vision Document symbol for the coinage design.
Reza Marashi, research director of the National Iranian American Council, called Trump's statement "a vile response to grieving Iranians" and asked what would happen if Iranians claimed that the U.S.
The administrative divisions of Iran are arranged in four levels, the first level of which is the province (Persian: استان‌: ostān).
According to estimates published by the Statistical Center of Iran in the 1990s, more than 70 percent of the population was covered by at least one form of social insurance.
The PMF is led by Hadi al-Amiri and Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis, two Badr Organization leaders with ties το Iran since the 1980s.
These prohibited exports of key British commodities, including sugar and blocked Iran's access to its hard currency accounts in British banks.
The meeting During the related meeting, the Islamic Council's representatives reached a consensus with 211 votes in favor, 6 votes against, and one abstention, approving an immediate legal strategy to counter the adventurous and terrorist actions of the United States in the region.
Despite these efforts, relations during the 1990s were overshadowed by domestic politics and resulted in a period of distancing between the two countries.
"Chain" assassinations In late 1998, three dissident writers, a political leader and his wife were killed in Iran in the span of two months.
Qatar: The government welcomed the agreement as a "significant step" toward enhancing regional peace and stability.
The organization has been criticized for imposing extreme censorship and establishing online content monopoly.
Direct identity laundering refers to the creation of a new legitimate ship identity by registering an unclean vessel under a new clean identity.
1952–53: Reforms under Mossadegh When Mohammad Mossadegh took over the ministry on 21 July 1952, he initiated a series of reforms in the ministry.
Isfahan Central Prison, also called Dastgerd Prison, is a prison in south Isfahan, Isfahan province, Iran, on the Zobahan freeway.
The 5,750 miles (9,250 km) Trans-Siberian Railway covers much of this route and currently carries large amounts of freight from East Asia to Moscow and on to the rest of Europe.
Manucher Ghorbanifar (Persian: منوچهر قربانی‌فر, nicknamed Gorba; born May 9, 1945) is an expatriate Iranian arms dealer and former SAVAK agent.
The combat capabilities of the "Popular Resistance" remained unclear; the group's first video showed just a few masked men with guns.
According to a Quinnipiac poll taken 30 July – 4 August 43% of New York City voters oppose the agreement, while 36% support it; 42% said that the agreement would make the world less safe, while 40% said it will make the world more safe.
The limitation on the final brew is only that it must be less than or equal to 2% TDS to distinguish from espresso-type coffee.
In 2015 Jarden was acquired by Newell-Rubbermaid, which changed its name to Newell Brands, the current owner of the Mr.
Launch In 2019, the company launched its line of flash-frozen coffee capsules at the Specialty Coffee Association of America expo and won best new product.
Achieving desired extraction An extraction yield of 18% to 22% is desirable for most traditional coffee beverages.
The first espresso machines were steam types, produced when a common boiler was piped to four group heads so that multiple types of coffee could be made at the same time.
Vietnamese usage also includes related terms such as cà phê kho and colloquial labels likening the filter to a sock (for example, cà phê bít tất).
The word originates from Arabic: طاس, romanized: ṭās, from the Persian: طاس, romanized: ṭās, meaning cup or bowl.
The design generically uses a lever, pumped by the operator, to pressurize hot water and send it through the coffee grounds.
In 2001, Housewares International bought the Breville companies in Australia, New Zealand and Hong Kong.
The acidity of cold and hot brew coffee is similar but cold brew coffee has a lower titratable acid concentration.
The company employs around 420 people at the Weggis site in 2021 and sells its coffee machines in 80 countries worldwide.
These were decorated with brightly coloured enamel and motifs that included musical instruments or military trophies.
Brewed coffee, if kept hot, will deteriorate rapidly in flavor, and reheating such coffee tends to give it a "muddy" flavor, as some compounds that impart flavor to coffee are destroyed if this is done.
Format and rules To qualify for the World Brewers Cup, contestants must win their respective national championship organized by affiliated national organizations.
A coffee cup or pot is placed on the bottom of the stand, and fine to medium-fine ground coffee is spooned into a dry bolsita.
One drawback of the electric roasting appliances is their small capacity: 4 to 8 ounces (110 to 230 g) for fluid-bed, and somewhat more for drum roaster.
Unlike a moka express, it does not use the pressure of steam to force the water through the coffee, relying instead on gravity.
When the lower chamber is almost empty, bubbles of steam mix with the upstreaming water, producing a characteristic gurgling noise—a signal that brewing should be stopped.
Once the beans are roasted each participant is given an opportunity to sample the aromatic smoke by wafting it towards them.
The thicker filter papers may also assist in removing more cafestol, a cholesterol-elevating compound found in coffee.
Yields of under 18% are considered under-extracted, or under-developed – desirable compounds have not been extracted to the fullest.
The production of professional coffee machines is carried out in the historical site of Gaggio Montano near Bologna.
Manual pour-over coffee preparation Pour-over methods are popular ways of making specialty drip coffee.
The company continues to produce espresso machines (as well as accessories) from classic manual machines to the innovative semi-automatic and super-automatic models recently added to the line.
Thermal transport When placed beneath a cup, saucers have very little direct influence on beverage cooling rate.
While the company distributes brands under its own name, it also supplies coffee under other notable brands such as Shipley Do-Nuts and Bright and Early Coffee.
(According to one source, the particle size should be 75–125 microns.) Strict connoisseurs insist that they must be hand-pounded in a wooden mortar, although it is difficult to do this while achieving a uniform fineness.
Comparison of systems The plastic and metal coffee capsules typically are used in a non-removable receptacle on the brewing device.
The Maas machines are distinguished by their universal design - black and silver, glass fronted machines all made to the same dimensions.
Giuseppe De'Longhi (born 24 April 1939) is an Italian billionaire businessman, and the president of De'Longhi.
57mm group models include the Anna (PL41), Anita (PL042), and Grace (PL81, discontinued); the Anita features a built-in conical burr grinder.
Hedrick subsequently awarded Lelit two of his three highest rankings on his June 2025 "Prosumer Espresso Machine Tier List," giving 'A' ratings to both the MaraX and Elizabeth models.
In response, 15-year-old developer Shane Brunswick created a website, save418.com, and established the "Save 418 Movement", asserting that references to 418 "I'm a teapot" in different projects serve as "a reminder that the underlying processes of computers are still made by humans".
Major wins National and world champions 1996 Road Race Mario Cipollini 1999 Road Race Salvatore Commesso Road Race Armin Meier 2002 Road Race Salvatore Commesso 2003 World Road Race Igor Astarloa External links Team Results on procyclingstats.com, sortable by year Team history on cyclingranking.com
A roasting profile describes the time the beans spend at each temperature during roasting including the final temperature prior to cooling.
Housewares International Limited The company was founded in 1957 as Housewares International Limited, and imported homeware products.
Furthermore, it hosts a set of microswitches that prevent the leakage of hot water under high pressure in case of unsuccessful or improper closure of the brewer itself.
The inner holes in the mugs' walls are designed in such a way that the mugs must be emptied in a unique sequence, or they will drain.
Eating is accomplished without utensils by tearing a piece of injera (strictly using the right hand), then scooping some stew, vegetables or salad with the bread.
In 2015, the competition was the subject of the documentary Barista, which followed competitors in the 2013 USBC.
See also Arabic tea Arab cuisine Coffee in Islam Home roasting coffee Green coffee Turkish coffee References Further reading Basan, Ghillie (2007).
Demitasse cups are small because they usually serve espresso, which is a stronger, more concentrated coffee, best served in smaller portions.
However, most early modern Europeans did not like coffee, which is an acquired taste, and especially they did not like the black, bitter Turkish version.
Travel mugs have a spill-proof lid with a sipping opening and in many cases, a narrower base, so that they will fit into the cup-holders that are built into many vehicles.
Louise Harpman, co-owner of the world's most extensive collection of coffee cup lids and co-author of the book Coffee Lids (Princeton Architectural Press, 2018), suggests that coffee cup lids "represent a major shift in American 'to-go' culture".
The first coffee press, which may have been made in France, was the modern coffee press in its rudimentary form – a metal or cheesecloth screen fitted to a rod that users would press into a pot of hot water and coffee grounds.
Some modern machines prepare various coffee styles such as mochas and lattes and use ground drip coffee, and some fresh-grind the coffee to order using a grinder in the machine.
In North Arabia, a darker variation known as qahwah shamāliyya (literally "Northern coffee") is prepared by roasting the beans for a longer time.
A zarf (plural: zarfs, zarves; Turkish: zarflar; Arabic: zuruuf) is a cup holder, usually of ornamented metal, for a coffee cup without a handle (demitasse or fincan).
Past winners See also World Butchers Challenge References External links World Barista Championship official site
In 1970, La Marzocco patented its first series of professional semi-automatic, dual-boiler machines named GS (Gruppo Saturo, saturated group), winning the Qualità e Cortesia-Toscana prize in 1971.
ISSpresso also offered the opportunity to study physical phenomena related to the fluid dynamics in microgravity of (pure and mixed) liquids at high pressure and temperature.
To some extent the tea will continue to steep even after the plunger is depressed, which may cause the tea remaining in the press to become bitter.
References External links Barista at IMDb Barista at Rotten Tomatoes Barista at Metacritic Barista on X
In 1996, the Miele Group established the Dongguan factory as a joint venture with Melitta, which became fully owned by Miele in 2009.
In 2019, they released the AeroPress Go, a travel-sized model with a reduced capacity, smaller accessories which assemble inside of a plastic mug with a lid.
These cups were tall due to the habit of drinking the liquid layer at the top, with the preparation sediment left at the bottom.
Ivory was carved in the same way as wood; however, its greater value meant that more care was needed to avoid mistakes.
Some of the machines, particularly older models, utilize powdered instant coffee mixed with hot water, and some of these offer condiments such as cream and sugar.
It is specified in RFC 2324, published on 1 April 1998 as an April Fools' Day RFC, as part of an April Fools prank.
There are very few irreligious individuals, and participation in religious activity is generally high.
Also, these tongs still can be used to serve small candy, string beans, slices of cucumber, celery sticks.
The unanimous support from the aforementioned projects and the general public prompted Nottingham to begin the process of having 418 marked as a reserved HTTP status code, ensuring that 418 will not be replaced by an official status code for the foreseeable future.
Singapore The name kopitiam symbolizes Singapore's multilingual culture: "kopi" is Malay for coffee, while "tiam" is Hokkien (or Fukienese) for shop.
A new model of the Senseo machine, the Senseo New Generation, was launched in selected markets in 2007.
He wrote: "Most persons of distinction in Holland roast their own berries." In the 19th century, various patents were awarded in the U.S.
The captured hot air causing mild micro-turbulences on the underside of the coffee grounds were said to help avoid clogging.
It is known in French as a cafetière à piston or simply cafetière (also the usage in Dutch), though some speakers might also use genericized trademarks, such as Melior or Bodum.
Since the early 2010s, Italy has seen a steady growth in the number of coffee houses serving specialty coffee, which cater to the growing local market for higher quality coffee.
An appeal in court changed this patent matter, and the new judgement was that the other coffee makers were infringing on the European patent in Belgium.
This was initially only available as a thank-you gift to importers and vendors of Rancilio's restaurant-grade coffee machines.
The brand was owned by Mars Drinks, a division of Mars, Incorporated until October 1, 2018, when Lavazza purchased Mars's coffee units.
Typically, when the coffee boils up through the jebena's neck, it is poured in and out of another container to cool it.
The WBC was dominated in its early years by Scandinavian baristas and was held in Europe or the United States from its inception until 2007 when it was hosted in Tokyo, Japan.
Cuisine Typically, Eritrean cuisine consists of various stews (tsebhi) made from vegetables and meat, and served atop a large, flat sourdough bread called injera, tayta, "shuro", "alicha" and "hamly".
In 1951, following the 1950s postwar reconstruction and economic boom in Germany, Krups moved into the lucrative consumer appliance arena.
A mug without a handle, i.e., a bowl or a beaker, is topologically equivalent to a saucer, which is quite evident when a raw clay bowl is flattened on a potter's wheel.
In April 2009, the company presented its pressure profile technology at SCAA on a prototype, which, for the first time, enabled the barista to have direct pressure control at any point during extraction.
Current machines Tassimo offers five models of single-cup coffee maker compatible with the "home-use" T-discs.
Another type of demitasse has a glass cup set into a metal cup-holder frame, called a zarf in Turkey.
Discs containing milk use UHT milk, not powdered milk, but are no longer available in the United States.
Cafetière A cafetière (coffee plunger, French press in US English) requires coffee of a coarser grind than does a drip-brew coffee filter, as finer grounds will seep through the press filter and into the drink.
Coffee makers that use pressure to force water through ground coffee are called espresso makers, and they produce espresso coffee.
In November 2020, De'Longhi announced the acquisition of Capital Brands, which specialized in mixers, for 420 million euros.
At the end of 2015, the company's income statement registered a total revenue of €172.4 million, 6.9% more than 2014 (€161.2 million).
In addition, the espresso method of extraction yielded higher antioxidant activity than other brewing methods.
Gaggia began selling these the following year, using advertising to emphasize the lack of steam and the presence of crema.
Care of the bolsita The bolsita is always washed and dried between each use, as a dry bolsita produces the best results.
The brand has been described as "the queen of espresso machines." In 2019, La Pavoni was acquired by Smeg and operates as part of the Smeg Group.
The ducts of the hydraulic circuit are made from steel, not plastic, to support operational loads up to 400 bars (5,800 psi).
See also Single-serve coffee container References External links A Modo Mio Lavazza: a casa come al bar
Similar steam pressure-driven devices were invented in Paris by Alexandre Lebrun (1838) and in Berlin by H.
In 2001, La Marzocco began an eight-year sponsorship of the World Barista Championship, serving as the official espresso machine supplier from 2001 to 2008.
Local coffee manufacturers now mix instant coffee powder with non-dairy creamer or whitener and sugar, and market the 3-in-1 mixture as white coffee as well.
100 Jahre Melitta - Geschichte eines Markenunternehmens [100 years Melitta - History of a brand company] (in German) (1 ed.).
Marketed since spring 1927 and up into, at least, the 1940s, these coffee makers were available as stand-alone devices for home use, but were also adopted by various other German coffee roasters (including Maschinenfabrik Bremen (Bremen, Germany), Georg Schrader & Co.
Fortified coffee Red Eye is one espresso shot added to a cup of coffee (typically 210–480 ml, 7–16 oz).
It was originally constructed out of copper, until 1886, when the material was switched to aluminum.
A barista can acquire these skills by attending training classes, but they are more commonly learned on the job.
In February 2011, Green Mountain announced an agreement with Dunkin' Donuts to make Dunkin’ Donuts coffee available in single-serve K-Cup pods for use with Keurig Single-Cup Brewers.
Different devices and methods have been employed by competitors at the WBrC, including French press, pour-over, modified AeroPress and other hybrid techniques.
The current models of the Anna and Anita (PL41TEM and PL042TEMD) include PID controllers to manage brew temperature and a pressure gauge to measure brew pressure.
Organization The WBC is operated by World Coffee Events (WCE), and is one of seven World Coffee Championships which was established by the Specialty Coffee Association of America (SCAA) and the Speciality Coffee Association of Europe (SCAE) to run a portfolio of international coffee events.
Arabic coffee has a prominent place in traditional Arab holidays and special events such as Ramadan and Eid.
The first burr grinder for home use with completely vertical grinding and a special design to minimize noise during grinding.
Vitaperk LLC, often stylized VitaPerk, is a Michigan based, domestic limited liability company that produces and sells nutraceuticals and dietary supplements in the form of a fortified, non-dairy coffee additive.
A creamer is a small pitcher or jug designed for holding cream or milk to be served with tea or coffee in the Western tradition.
Turkish coffee (Turkish: Türk kahvesi) is a style of coffee prepared in a cezve using very finely ground coffee beans without filtering.
There are several manual drip-brewing devices on the market, offering more control over brewing parameters than automatic machines, and which incorporate stopper valves and other innovations that offer greater control over steeping time and the proportion of coffee to water.
History The coffee vending machine was invented in the United States by the Rudd-Melikian company of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1947, and the machine was named the Kwik Kafe.
In Europe, it is only available in powder form as a coffee creamer in one or two varieties depending on the country with no added flavors.
The lettering changed color several times and the plastic changed from clear to gray, but the brewer's design was otherwise unchanged between these versions.
In November 2024, the Federal Court of Australia dismissed claims brought by Douwe Egberts against Vittoria Coffee alleging passing off, misleading and deceptive conduct, and trade mark infringement.
The term “white coffee” in Britain usually means coffee that has some kind of cream or milk added to it, and distinct from “black coffee” which has no dairy components at all.
Keurig has over 400 varieties and over 60 brands of coffee and other beverages through its own and partnership-licensed brands.
The original design and many current models are made from aluminium with Bakelite handles, though they are sometimes made out of stainless steel or other alloys.
Jebena (Amharic: ጀበና, romanized: ǧäbäna, Arabic: جبنة, romanized: jabana) is a traditional Ethiopian and Eritrean flask made of pottery and used to brew coffee.
However, this method is more suitable for light teas and is not suitable for masala chai (which must be boiled) or Chinese tea (which tends to be diffused for a long time, with tea leaves reused as a rule).
In all, the company operates 13 production facilities and 30 international subsidiaries that support sales to 75 countries worldwide.
This saw the boycott of sugar between 1792-1793 and 1825-1829 as a way to force parliament to halt the trafficking of enslaved people.
How tightly the coffee is packed impacts how quickly the coffee extracts and the strength of the brew.
(which was actually made for the movie from a Krups coffee grinder) References Further reading Shrum, Rebecca K.
Victor coffee mug During World War II, the United States Navy put out a bid for American companies to design a coffee mug that was resistant to falling over and could survive use on ships.
The company originally began as a wholesale reseller of espresso machines, before later branching out into manufacturing.
Other coffee drinks Malaysia In Malaysia, the original white coffee started in the Old Town of Ipoh and was a drink made from beans roasted in margarine, ground, brewed and served with sweetened condensed milk.
Because of the ritualistic nature of the bunna ceremony, if a jebena is not used to prepare and boil the coffee, by all accounts, a bunna ceremony is not taking place.
In 2023, the SCA updated the rules and regulations and now allow the use of infused and co-fermented coffees in baristas' routines.
A frappuccino is a latte, mocha, or macchiato mixed with crushed ice and flavorings (such as vanilla or hazelnut if requested by the customer) and blended.
Vietnamese companies sell an imitation kopi luwak, made using an enzyme soak which they claim replicates the civet's digestive process.
At the USBC, competitors must make three courses of beverages within a fifteen-minute time limit and are judged by seven different judges.
La Pavoni had a technological and functional appeal but, as a small steam engine, also had a nostalgic charm.
Farther north, the trend moves toward slightly lighter roasts, while outside Italy a wide range is popular.
The device uses an infusion method for brewing coffee with a stainless steel filter and a ceramic pot.
In fact, there are two phenomena that contribute to this effect: on the one hand, the Bernoulli equation is used to explain it, on the other hand, the adhesion between the liquid and the spout material is also important.
while preserving the values that underpin its Italian identity.” The company has continued to operate as part of the Breville Group since.
The coffee can then be prepared for drinking by adding hot water to the concentrate at a water-to-concentrate ratio of approximately 3:1, but can be adjusted to the drinker's preference.
The espresso machines are produced by Eugster/Frismag in Romanshorn, which also manufactures machines for other brands such as Siemens, Bosch and AEG.
Geschichte und Geschichten um Melitta - geröstet, gemahlen und gefiltert - zum 50jährigen Bestehen der Melitta-Werke Bentz & Sohn in Minden [History and stories around Melitta - roasted, grinded and filtered - at the 50th anniversary of Melitta-Werke Bentz & Sohn in Minden] (in German) (1 ed.).
produced its own British-manufactured coffee makers "standard" and "Cappucino" around 1955–1965 that also bore the trademark "Atomic".
In 1989, Natural Brown coffee filters made from unbleached pulp were introduced, which kept unwanted by-products from leaching into the environment.
The company employs over 450 people in offices in Europe and the United States, and has authorized dealers in over 100 countries worldwide.
"Even so," responded Washington, "we pour legislation into the senatorial saucer to cool it." though the earliest publication of this supposed interchange appears to be 1872.
Among the variations to the moka pot design that have been introduced since the 1930s are those that integrate an electric heating element in the boiler, expedite brew time, create milk froth, and allow microwave brewing.
Tassimo T-Discs are currently offered under brands owned by JDE Peet's or Kraft Foods, including Gevalia, Maxwell House, Mastro Lorenzo, Nabob, Carte Noire, Jacobs, and Suchard.
At the end of the first round, the competitors with the six highest scores advance to the semifinals round and join the twelve competitors who earned a bye from CoffeeChamps.
History The company Cantarella Brothers was founded in Sydney in 1947 by brothers Orazio and Carmelo Cantarella.
No matter what roasting method is used, the weather can affect the results, especially if roasting outdoors.
Extraction Proper brewing of coffee requires using the correct amount of coffee grounds, extracted to the correct degree (largely determined by the correct time), at the correct temperature using the water of balanced mineral composition.
Variations In Bulgaria, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Czechia, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia, Slovakia and Slovenia, the cezve is a long-necked coffee pot.
Despite the joking nature of its origins, or perhaps because of it, the protocol has remained as a minor presence online.
It is typically brewed in a dallah or cezve, and served in a small cup decorated with a pattern, known as a finjān.
On 6 August 2017, Nottingham requested that references to 418 "I'm a teapot" be removed from the programming language Go and subsequently from Python's Requests and ASP.NET's HttpAbstractions library as well.
A jebena is usually made of clay and has a spherical base, a neck and pouring spout and a handle where the neck connects with the base.
Older models used instant coffee or concentrated liquid coffee and hot or boiling water, and provided condiments such as cream and sugar.
Pod manufacturers note that these problems are generally reduced by the use of automatic machines and pod technology.
Ristretto, one of the strongest traditional coffee drinks, can contain up to 0.75 g of solubles per 15 gram serving (over 5% of total volume), making it more than four times as strong as the typical coffee beverage.
History Commercial paper coffee filters were invented in Germany by Melitta Bentz in 1908 and are commonly used for drip brew all over the world.
Acquisition of a majority stake in RC Group, a leading player in datacenter cooling, in 2006 has strengthened its presence in the HVACR market.
References External links Wigomat: Eine Hommage an die erste Filterkaffeemaschine der Welt (archived 2018-03-20)
Liebeck was wearing cotton sweatpants, which absorbed the coffee and held it against her skin, scalding her thighs, buttocks, and groin.
The dallah has a distinctive form, featuring a bulbous body that tapers to a "waistline" in the middle and flares out at the top, covered by a spire-shaped lid topped with a tall finial and held by a sinuous handle.
A dallah (Arabic: دَلَّة), also known as bakraj (Arabic: بَكْرَج), is a traditional Arabic coffee pot used for centuries to brew and serve qahwa, a spicy, bitter coffee traditionally served during feasts like Eid al-Fitr and made through a multi-step ritual.
This is reflected in language; when people say "meet for coffee," they primarily mean meet to socialize or talk.
A dallah can be made of brass, steel, silver, or luxury metals such as 24-karat gold for special occasions or use by royalty.
Lastly, once the desired brewing time is complete the AeroPress is either turned right-side-up and plunged normally or held at an angle and plunged horizontally.
Package teapot HTCPCP-TEA implementation by David Skinner save418.com error418.net Archived 2021-01-07 at the Wayback Machine
Coffee was introduced to Sweden in the late 17th century, and today coffee plays a significant role in Swedish culture, characterised by Sweden ranking among the world's top coffee consumers per capita, and a distinct tradition of coffee breaks known as Fika.
In Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, France, Sweden, Spain, Poland, Russia, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Australia, South Africa and China Jura has its own distribution companies or joint ventures.
Coffee may be intentionally over-extracted to achieve increased strength while reducing the amount of ground coffee required.
When coffee began to be served in cardboard cups in the late 20th century, the zarf became disposable as well.
To expedite brewing, a weighted valve called Cremavent has been added as a pressure regulator on top of the nozzle that allows pressure to build up inside the water tank in a manner similar to a pressure cooker.
She patented her invention and formed a company, Melitta, to sell the coffee filters (in a format and size later named "1"), hiring her husband and two sons to assist her as the first employees.
As for the Isomac "La splendida", it wore a black sticker Atomic cappuccino which was applied on both white and red models.
Heat transfer through the bottom of the cup is small relative to heat lost through the top of the cup.
This delivers the hot water to a cone-shaped coffee grind holder, which drips into a carafe at 92 to 96 °C (198 to 205 °F), considered an optimal temperature range.
The role of the sensory judge is to score the competitor solely on the quality of the beverage served and customer service.
(Just one machine was given an 'A' grade in this survey.) See also Bialetti De'Longhi Faema FrancisFrancis Gaggia La Marzocco La Pavoni Rancilio List of Italian companies External links LELIT Official YouTube Channel == References ==
Coffee Joulies are small, stainless-steel capsules containing a phase-change material; the capsules were designed to be placed in a cup of coffee in order to cool coffee that is too hot then slowly release the heat to keep the coffee warm.
To avoid the teapot effect, the pot can be filled less, so that a larger tilting angle is necessary from the start.
Some versions are marketed to hikers and backpackers not wishing to carry a heavy, metal percolator or a filter using drip brew.
Reports indicated that household appliances from De'Longhi, initially produced for the Ukrainian market, were redirected to Russia and sold through marketplaces and electronics store chains.
The optimal ratio between extraction and strength is represented by a rectangle in the center of the chart – within that area, coffee is neither over- nor under-extracted, and neither too strong nor weak.
The four judges award points on a variety of factors including the taste and balance of the barista's beverages as well as their presentation.
History Lelit was founded in 1986 by Maria Bellini and her husband Edoardo Epis in Baitella, Italy, near Brescia.
Moka coffee characteristics Brewed coffee flavor, including that of a moka pot depends greatly on bean variety, roast level, fineness of grind, water profile, and the level of heat used.
Overseas visitors finding the margarine-roasted coffee beans unorthodox (due to their slight caramelized flavor) are often misled into thinking that there is a type of coffee bean endemic to Malaysia called the "white coffee bean".
and DLRadiators allowed De'Longhi to enter the commercial HVACR (heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration) market.
In 1998, Sunbeam Corporation (eventually known as American Household, Inc.) purchased Signature Brands.
In the same year, Thermoplan was awarded the 2004 Innovation Award from the Central Swiss Chamber of Commerce.
It uses the pressure of the boiling water to force it to a chamber above the grounds, but relies on gravity to pass the water down through the grounds, where it then repeats the process until shut off by an internal timer.
In the 1930s, Melitta revised the original filter, tapering it into the shape of a cone and adding ribs.
One variation also called "French pull" or "reverse French press" uses a pull-design: the coffee grounds are placed in a mesh basket, which is then pulled into the lid after brewing, trapping the grounds out of the coffee.
Rudd, president of the Rudd-Melikian company, stated that Kwik Kafe machines purveyed 250,000 cups of coffee on a daily basis.
Devices similar to the SoftBrew include manual drip coffee makers, French press coffee makers, the Empot, and, to a limited extent, other pour-over and drip coffee filters.
The Muslims are concentrated in the eastern and western lowlands,& highlands whereas the Christians mainly inhabit the highlands.
Later lid designs like the Viora have improved on Solo Traveler's design, which has too small a vent to allow sufficient air to enter while drinking.
His cockiness provides a stark contrast to the humble obsessiveness of the other four personalities.
Caffitaly Systems also produces the CBTL Capsule System for The Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf and the MAP Italian Coffee Capsule System for Map Coffee Australia.
In January 2015, the company made a similar deal with Dr Pepper Snapple Group, but without a stockholder stake.
Where Gaggia saw them as niche, high-end appliances for specialized operators in commercial establishments that could afford them, Valente saw opportunity in a larger market for inexpensive, automated machines.
The Thermoplan CT1 and Thermoplan CTM are designed for operation by untrained workers; they feature an inbuilt milk-frother drawing milk from an internal milk fridge, that allows for complete one-click beverage making.
In Ethiopia, a small pottery cup called a sini or finjal is used to contain the coffee poured from the jebena.
This is because less flavor is available for extraction from the coffee grounds as the brewing process progresses.
It had the key elements of a conventional percolator: the broad base for boiling, the upflow central tube and a perforated basket hanging on it.
While the name suggests that this method was used by cowboys, presumably on the trail around a campfire, it is used by others.
Rancilio also offered a new color option, "Silva Black," for an additional fee, with a matte case to match the new black grouphead cover.
Equipment The most common roasting machines are of two basic types: drum and hot-air, although there are others including packed-bed, tangential and centrifugal roasters.
Wooden zarfs, of which very few remain, were favored because of the natural aroma of the wood from which they were fashioned.
His workaround of freezing coffee in ice trays inspired him, and he began experimenting with improving this method.
People with milk allergies need to be aware that non-dairy creamer may contain sodium caseinate, a milk protein.
The local culture consists of various, and often quite similar, traditions practiced by the nation's many Cushitic and Ethiopian Semitic-speaking Afro-Asiatic ethnic groups, in addition to those practiced by the area's Nilotic minorities.
V1 (1997-July 2006) Even within what is generally referred to as the first version of the Silvia, Rancilio did make some alterations.
For the open service, competitors may utilize any whole bean coffee of their choosing and must also accompany their beverage preparation with a 10-minute presentation.
The decision was appealed by both McDonald's and Liebeck in December 1994, but the parties settled out of court for an undisclosed amount.
History Alfonso Bialetti first acquired his metal-working skills by working for a decade in the French aluminium industry.
In 1950, Melvin Morse and Dick Borne of Presto Foods developed "Mocha Mix Coffee Creamer", which was the first commercial non-dairy creamer and the first product with the term “coffee creamer” in the name.
In Italian, it is known as a caffettiera a stantuffo; in German as a Pressstempelkanne, Stempelkanne ("stamp pot"), Stabfilterkanne, Kaffeepresse ("coffee press") or Bistrokanne.
While vacuum coffee makers generally were excessively complex for everyday use, they were prized for producing a clear brew, and were quite popular until the middle of the twentieth century.
Seven grams of grounds are used to make a 25 ml shot of espresso (this comes to 280 g/L, but the amount of water used is actually more than 25 ml because some stays with the grounds).
Espresso machines are made to accept water directly from a cold water line supply, common in commercial installations, or from a separate tank that must be filled with water by hand.
More modern jebena's may be made of porcelain or metal, resembling a more traditional western coffee pot.
Hot water (93–96 °C (199–205 °F) is then poured through the coffee and filter, depositing brewed coffee into the flask.
Unlike a standard percolator, the moka pot never sends brewed coffee back through the coffee grounds.
Coffee pods are made by a variety of manufacturers and are interchangeable between brand of pod and model of pod brewer most of the time.
Dual boiler (DB) Finally, in some espresso machines for commercial or home use, water for brewing is heated in a separate chamber, which requires two separate boilers.
History Although coffee was probably discovered in Ethiopia, it was in Turkey around the 13th century that it became popular as a beverage.
The company transformed into a cigarette wholesaler and after World War II it became an operator of cigarette vending machines.
Coffee cup sleeve Coffee cup sleeves are roughly cylindrical sleeves that fit tightly over handle-less paper coffee cups to insulate the drinker's hands from hot coffee.
Green coffee beans can be roasted in a convection oven provided that the beans are spread out in only one layer on a perforated baking tray with raised sides.
Along with the shop's co-founders, the shop convinced the owners of the historic Maxwell House Hotel to use their coffee, forming Maxwell House Coffee.
Viewers are introduced into the elevation of the everyday drink, into a craft culture not unlike that of beer and wine.
The dallah plays such an important role in the identity of Gulf Cooperation Council countries that it is featured in public artwork and on monetary coins.
'bartender') is a person, usually a coffeehouse employee, who prepares and serves espresso-based coffee drinks and other beverages.
In the 1950s just as instant coffee was becoming a popular coffee drink, specialty coffeehouses began opening to cater to the connoisseur, offering a more traditionally brewed beverage.
For roasting, many people used such simple methods as a layer of beans on a metal sheet in the oven, or beans stirred in a cast-iron skillet over a fire.
History In 1976 Arthur Eugster started manufacturing electric home appliances such as egg cookers and waffle irons.
In cases such as the FIFA World Cup and the Stanley Cup, the competition itself may grow to take on the name of the trophy that is awarded to the winner.
The latter part of the reign of George II and early reign of George III exhibited a very large variety of patterns pierced and chased onto the tongs.
Similar coffee makers In the 1880s, Max Thürmer, a coffee roaster of Dresden, Germany, founded in 1879, advertised Karlsbad coffee and somewhat later also coffee makers (of unknown type) in various newspapers.
Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz purchased the company after trying a cup brewed by a Clover machine and declaring it to be "the best cup of brewed coffee I have ever tasted".
Coffee-mate Original also contains small amounts of dipotassium phosphate, to prevent coagulation; mono- and diglycerides, used as an emulsifier; sodium aluminosilicate, an anticaking agent; artificial flavor; and annatto color.
Further reducing the heat lost through the bottom of the cup has little effect on the cooling rate of the beverage.
Coffee and water, usually with added sugar, is brought to the boil in a special pot called cezve in Turkey, and often called ibrik elsewhere.
The earliest surviving roasting implements were thin, circular, often perforated pans made from metal or porcelain, used in the 15th century in the Ottoman Empire and Greater Persia.
Large "ceremonial" or feasting cups, sometimes called grace cups or "welcome cups", and drinking horns, including ivory, with metal mounts, were important prestige pieces, typically too large to drink from all evening, so passed around or drunk from once.
Kopi luwak is produced mainly on the Indonesian islands of Sumatra, Java, Bali, Sulawesi, and in East Timor.
In early 2016 the German city of Hamburg banned coffee capsules from state-run buildings on environmental grounds.
The company Web site said in 2018 that it had been roasting coffee in Cherry Hill for more than 50 years.
Melitta USA Melitta USA, headquartered in Clearwater, Florida, is part of the privately held Melitta Group of Minden, Germany.
This sugar was being supplied by large plantations run by the British in the Caribbean, by enslaved or indentured people.
The Antwerp ruling affects the patents on the pods, but does not affect the patents on the Senseo machine itself.
See also Erlenmeyer flask Chemex filter system (FP-1, FP-2, FP-2N, FS-100, FSU-100, FC-100) Bodum Pour Over (a similar looking metal filter holder) Hario Drip Pot Woodneck (a similar looking cloth filter holder) References External links Chemex Coffeemakers & Filters – Official Website
Since, apart from the fill level, most of the influencing variables cannot be changed (at least not sufficiently precisely in practice), the only way to avoid the teapot effect is usually to choose a suitable geometry for the pot.
The machine includes pre-set programs for latte, cappuccino, espresso, black coffee and white coffee although it can be configured with the Thermoplan Service Master Card.
Jura is a Swiss developer and distributor of automatic coffee centers, which it sells in over 50 countries.
Capsules iperEspresso capsules contain a complete extraction group that replaces the traditional percolation process with a two-stage extraction.
On 5 October 2020, Python 3.9 released with an updated HTTP library including 418 IM_A_TEAPOT status code.
Long black is similar to Americano it can be prepared in different order (a double shot of espresso is added to water instead of vice versa) and is often served in a similar cup to a Flat white (6 oz); Most common in Australia and New Zealand but regularly found in speciality coffee shops.
Some people pour the hot tea or coffee from the cup into the saucer; the increased surface area of the liquid exposed to the air increases the rate at which it cools, allowing the drinker to consume the beverage quickly after preparation.
White coffee is usually purchased pre-ground due to the fact that the beans are harder than regular coffee, making them difficult to grind, even using a commercial grinder.
Construction The early tongs were scissor-like, occasionally in fancy shapes like storks with long beaks or puppets grabbing the sugar with their hands.
Eritrean variants of the jebena are made in a similar fashion, but only possess one spout for water to be poured in from, and for coffee to be poured out from.
History The competition started in 2002 and was initially referred to as the North American Barista Competition.
In 2016, significant changes were made to the competition format: Grinders were now provided by the competition's partner (Mahlkönig), new models of espresso machines were introduced, and the cappuccino was replaced by a "milk drink" component.
A Ho Chi Minh City net-filter venue was included in a New York Times list of coffee addresses in the city.
Coffee house A related but separate translation of the Italian caffetteria is coffee house or café: an establishment in which caffè was traditionally made with a moka pot.
Some sources claim that white coffee is more highly caffeinated than darker roasted coffee, but this is debated.
Named after the Yemeni city of Mokha, it was popularized by Italian aluminum vendor Alfonso Bialetti and his son Renato starting from 1933.
Usage The status code 418 is used as an Easter egg in some websites, such as Google.com's "I'm a teapot" easter egg.
It subsequently expanded into other kitchen products, such as a related tea maker, juicer, and food dehydrator, and integrated wireless technology into a "smart" version of its coffeemaker.
Karlsbad coffee makers consist of four parts (a coffee pot, a coffee strainer/filter, a water spreader/distributor, and a lid) all made out of porcelain, and they exist in a number of different shapes of unknown origin.
Etymology and inflection The word barista comes from Italian, where it means a "bartender" who typically works behind a counter, serving hot drinks (such as espresso), cold alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, and snacks.
Presentation rules At the Qualifying Competitions, baristas serve two courses of espresso-based beverages consisting of espressos and signature drinks for two scoring sensory judges, two non-scoring guest judges or judges-in-training, two technical judges, and a head judge.
Operation The machine has conditions of use that are similar to the traditional ones, in order to facilitate the operations of the astronauts without requiring specific training.
Torrefacto refers to a particular process of roasting coffee beans, common in Spain, Paraguay, Portugal, Mexico, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Uruguay and Argentina.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has stated that products with sodium caseinate may contain low levels of lactose.
The United States Barista Championship (USBC) is an annual American coffee-brewing competition designed to evaluate baristas on their skills in espresso-based drink preparation and service.
Rancilio began collaborating with McDonald's in 2000, partnering in the development of the latter's McCafé initiative.
The Chemex Coffeemaker is a manual pour-over style glass coffeemaker, invented by Peter Schlumbohm in 1941, manufactured by the Chemex Corporation in Chicopee, Massachusetts.
In fast pouring, the liquid flows out of the spout in an arc without dripping, so it is given a relatively high velocity with which the liquid moves away from the edge (see Torricelli outflow velocity).
It can be made with various types of coffee beans and roast levels, allowing for a wide range of flavors and strengths, despite the widespread myth that it is made with dark-roast coffee beans.
The espresso is always served with a saucer and demitasse spoon, and sometimes with a complimentary wrapped chocolate and a small glass of water.
The iced cappuccino ("ice cap"), sold at coffee chain Tim Horton's, is a popular ice-blended drink in Canada.
This method of roasting produces somewhat less smoke than oven or stove-top but it still requires good ventilation.
Products Espresso machines Commercial espresso machines All commercial machines are available in 2, 3 except the Linea Classic S (also 1 and 4); the Linea PB, the GB5 and FB80 (also 4); the Strada X (also available in 1 group).
In the 1970´s, Maas International incorporated coffee, beverages and snacks in its vending machines.
The portafilter forms a seal with the espresso machine's gasket, and directs high-pressure hot water through the coffee puck.
Advantages Enjoying coffee made from freshly roasted beans is one of the major driving factors in the popularity of home roasting.
In Italy, Giordano Robbiati applied a small yellow sticker bearing the Atomic trademark on a small copper and aluminium moka pot.
The modern dallah is a more typically practical vessel, and even automatic dallahs and Thermos dallahs are available to the modern coffee drinker.
In the most common devices, coffee grounds are placed into a paper or metal filter inside a funnel, which is set over a glass or ceramic coffee pot, a cooking pot in the kettle family.
Handling of a used moist coffee pod is not necessary if the brewing device has a removable filter tray.
Products FLAVIA claims its patented technology brews drinks in a single-serve "Fresh Pack," which means that the pack is the actual brewing chamber.
When coffee was eventually popularised, what was served was not genuine Turkish coffee, but a product heavily diluted with water (much weaker than modern espresso) or milk, and sweetened with sugar.
The company was organized in 4 regions, EMEA (Europe Middle-East and Africa), Asia Pacific, Latin America and North America Through its wholly owned subsidiary Spengler in Germany and China, Maas developed new and innovative product lines.
Brewing coffee Coffee is brewed by first folding the paper filter into shape by using the folded side with a printed number 3, where the pour spout is located and placing it into the neck of the flask.
Placing a saucer on top of a cup, however, inhibits evaporative cooling and is thus an effective way of reducing the cooling rate so that the drink remains warmer for longer.
History Holton "Rex" Diamond, an employee of Rich Products, performed experiments from 1943 to 1945 using a "[g]elationous form of soybean protein" to make a "soy cream" that would not form curds when mixed with coffee.
The method spread in 20th-century Saigon and is associated with the city's Chinese Vietnamese community, including the Chợ Lớn area, where cloth-filter coffee was sold as a working-class street beverage alongside other brewing styles such as phin coffee.
A coffee capsule differs from a coffee pod in that the coffee is packed in a plastic or aluminum package instead of a paper filter, and it is usually designed for use with a single brand or system and is therefore not interchangeable with other systems.
Drip brew coffee makers largely replaced the coffee percolator (a device combining boiling, drip-brewing and steeping) in the 1970s due to the percolator's tendency to over-extract coffee, thereby making it bitter.
La Marzocco, founded in 1927 in Florence by Giuseppe and Bruno Bambi, is an Italian company specializing in high-end espresso machines.
Although it is tempting to grasp the body of the mug covering the visible holes and drink the liquid in the usual manner, this would pour the liquid through hidden perforations near the mug's top.
The best-known rider competing for a team sponsored by Faema was 5-time Tour de France champion Eddy Merckx.
For the compulsory service, competitors prepare three coffee beverages utilizing the same whole bean coffee provided to them by the competition organizers.
This culminated in 1941, when Italy lost its African territories and all imports of coffee were halted.
The use of pressure makes it capable of brewing highly concentrated coffee, comparable to espresso, but it can also be used to brew filter-strength coffee and cold brew.
World AeroPress Championship The World AeroPress Championship is an international fan-led AeroPress brewing competition.
Coffee and Espresso Machines Verismo 801 and Thermoplan Black & White The Verismo 801 was a superautomatic coffee machine designed exclusively for Starbucks, until discontinued in 2008.
The use of a milk derivative prompts some individuals and organizations – such as vegans and Jewish dietary law authorities – to classify the product as "dairy" rather than nondairy.
In the United States of America, where the product is manufactured by Nestlé in Glendale, Arizona, the product is available in liquid, liquid concentrate and powdered forms.
A Consumer Reports review determined that the coffee taste is high-quality, yet the process of brewing it is complex and does not justify its high-ticket price.
Batch brewing keeps coffee available during peak hours and supports faster service from a single pot.
Breville Group Limited In 2008, Housewares International Limited officially changed its name to the Breville Group Limited.
Preparation The boiler (marked A in the diagram) is filled with water to an etched line (or slightly below the safety release valve).
The stated goal of the competition is to showcase the craft and skill of filter coffee brewing by hand, promoting manual coffee brewing and quality of service.
According to her daughter, "the burns and court proceedings (had taken) their toll" and in the years following the settlement Liebeck had no quality of life.
He has since become the first US Barista to win the World Barista Championship in London, England, in 2010.
The following year, La Marzocco introduced the GS/3 model, and also launched the "Songwa Estate Project", a non-profit joint venture aiming to provide educational experiences for members of the specialty coffee industry.
Brew pitchers are most commonly 89 millilitres (3 US fl oz), which is sufficient for any espresso other than a large (double or triple) lungo, but pitchers may also be found in 150 millilitres (5 US fl oz) and even 240 millilitres (8 US fl oz) sizes.
It is similar in principle to the competing Nespresso and Tassimo capsule systems, in which a sealed capsule containing a premeasured amount of coffee is inserted into the machine, through which hot water is forced at high pressure into a coffee cup.
Boiling water is poured slowly over the coffee grounds, and the liquid seeps through, making coffee, which drips into the waiting container.
McDonald's asserts that the outcome of the case was a fluke, and attributed the loss to poor communications and strategy by an unfamiliar insurer representing a franchise.
Interest among younger customers and visitors seeking older Ho Chi Minh City coffee practices has also been reported.
As with the serving of tea in China and Japan, the serving of coffee in Turkey was a complex, ritualized process.
Name The name cezve is of Turkish origin, where it is a borrowing from Arabic: جِذوَة (jadhwa or jidhwa, meaning 'ember').
Application of the title Baristas generally operate a commercial espresso machine, and their role is preparing and pulling the shot; the degree to which this is automated or done manually varies significantly, ranging from push-button operation to an involved manual process.
A translation of Al-Jaziri's manuscript traces the spread of coffee from Arabia Felix (the present day Yemen) northward to Mecca and Medina, and then to the larger cities of Cairo, Damascus, Baghdad, and Constantinople.
All parts of the pot should be scrubbed by hand using water, avoiding detergent as aluminium moka pots are not dishwasher safe.
After a period of crisis in the 1970s and 1980s, Bialetti merged with Rondine Italia in 1993 and founded a new company named Bialetti Industrie S.p.A., based in Brescia.
In 2011, GMCR launched the Grounds to Grow On program, in which office customers purchase recovery bins for used K-Cups, which are shipped to Keurig's disposal partner, which composts the coffee grounds and sends the pods to be incinerated in a waste-to-energy power plant.
In 2021, the company built and scaled its manufacturing from a renovated seafood processing factory.
Non-beverage mugs Shaving mugs and scuttles A shaving scuttle and shaving mug were developed around the 19th century; the first patent for a shaving mug is dated 1867.
Products Keurig K-Cup brewing systems The company's flagship products, Keurig K-Cup brewing systems, are designed to brew a single cup of coffee, tea, hot chocolate, or other hot beverage.
AGA) is an Intergovernmental Academy of Somali Language in the Horn of Africa, established by the governments of Djibouti, Somalia, Ethiopia, Kenya and Somaliland.
Co-occurrence in this linguistic sense can be interpreted as an indicator of semantic proximity or an idiomatic expression.
Bitexts are generated by a piece of software called an alignment tool, or a bitext tool, which automatically aligns the original and translated versions of the same text.
Tools 11 million word Welsh language dataset The CorCenCC sampling frame Transcription protocols for spoken Welsh Welsh-language POS tagset and tagger, CyTag (English: ): a Welsh POS tagger (with bespoke tagset) designed and constructed for the project.
The synonyms had a high-frequency variation between the first and second halves of the 20th century.
The tag sets for heavily inflected languages such as Greek and Latin can be very large; tagging words in agglutinative languages such as Inuit languages may be virtually impossible.
Other topic models are generally extensions on LDA, such as Pachinko allocation, which improves on LDA by modeling correlations between topics in addition to the word correlations which constitute topics.
Its objectives are the promotion and standardization of the Galician language, understanding it to be the same language as Portuguese.
The origins of the frequent s-plural in modern Dutch are disputed; the ending became common in the Middle Dutch period.
Commissioners of Official Languages From 1999 to 2006, the commissioner was Dyane Adam, who was born in Casselman, Ontario, and holds a doctorate in clinical psychology from the University of Ottawa.
In addition this variety of the language follows the pattern of Pompeu Fabra standards who standardized the Catalan language in Catalonia.
In November 2015, Bhagyesh Jha and two other writers Chinu Modi and Vinod Bhatt, said to be the supporter of Jha, used the word Taliban for the writers like Dhiru Parikh and Niranjan Bhagat, who had supported the agitation.
The corpus is generally available only to researchers at Oxford University Press, but other researchers who can demonstrate a strong need may apply for access.
Awards and honors Fellow, Cognitive Science Society (2019) GradEd Champion, Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education, Stanford University (2018) Fellow, the Linguistic Society of America in 2014.
The Academia de Lenguas Mayas de Guatemala, or ALMG (English: Guatemalan Academy of Mayan Languages) is a Guatemalan organisation that regulates the use of the 22 Mayan languages spoken within the borders of the republic.
The Himalayan Languages Project, launched in 1993, is a research collective based at Leiden University and comprising much of the world's authoritative research on the lesser-known and endangered languages of the Himalayas, in Nepal, China, Bhutan, and India.
Hybrid models incorporate the distributed approach to learning along with more localised representations for common (high-frequency) or irregular forms of language.
The meeting was held from 23 April to 6 May 1951 and resulted in the creation of the association and its permanent commission.
For example, its linguistic rules, the Norms of El Puig, were the official Valencian standard in the early 1980s.
Dictionaries of Idiom Neutral and an outline of the grammar were published in several European languages in 1902 and 1903.
See also Irish language in Northern Ireland European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages British-Irish Council Languages in the United Kingdom Language revival Bòrd na Gàidhlig (Scotland) An Coimisinéir Teanga References External links Official website (in Irish) Official website (in English)
The basic work of the school is Dansk Funktionel Grammatik (Danish Functional Grammar) by Harder (2006).
Examples are Dalmatian, Etruscan, also known as Rasenna, Dadanitic, a Semitic language that may be close to classical Arabic, Lombardic, Burgundian, Vandalic, and Oscan, Umbrian, and Faliscan, all Italic languages that were related to Latin.
When the Spanish first arrived in Peru, Quechua served as a language of wider communication, a lingua franca, between Spaniards and Peruvian natives.
Significance The Urdu Science Board has played a vital role in making science accessible to the general public and promoting the Urdu language in academia and technical fields.
History Different practices for Danish orthography has been in existence since the language started to be written down.
In order for the young speaker to produce sounds easier, he or she may replace the sound in a specific word to a different one, which is somewhat similar.
In 2001, Tartu and Copenhagen scholars inaugurated the annual international conferences for biosemiotic research known as the Gatherings in Biosemiotics, later organised by the International Society for Biosemiotic Studies.
References External links AVL Resolutions, at their homepage, including both normative and non-normative.
geographical names or people) and partial syntantic information (which also allows for the visualization of dependency trees).
The National Council for the Maltese Language (Maltese: Il-Kunsill Nazzjonali tal-Ilsien Malti) was founded in April 2005 with the enactment of the Maltese Language Act in Chapter 470 of the Laws of Malta.
The council’s activities are outlined in the Polish Language Act (Polish: "Ustawa o języku polskim") of 1999.
Between these two extremes the rate of change between the groups is quite high, approximately 10% per age cohort.
Initiatives The board has undertaken several initiatives: Launched the Urdu Science Kitab Ghar, a display center for publications.
Its members included Roman Jakobson (its founder), Filipp Fortunatov, Grigoriy Vinokur, Boris Tomashevsky, and Petr Bogatyrev.
See also Norms of El Puig Lo Rat Penat References External links Section of Valencian language and Literature and dictionaries of the Royal Academy of Valencian Culture.
145, CSLI, ISBN 978-1-57586-401-3 Sag, Ivan A; Wasow, Thomas; Bender, Emily (2003), Syntactic theory : a formal introduction, CSLI lecture notes, no.
It was established by an Act of the Scottish Parliament in 2005 (which took effect in early 2006) and is based in Inverness.
Overview The term "universal grammar" is placeholder for whichever domain-specific features of linguistic competence turn out to be innate.
When it was initially proposed, critics of the Neogrammarians proposed an alternate position that summarised by the maxim "each word has its own history".
The basic theoretical framework, called “Glossematics”, was laid out in Hjelmslev’s two main works: Prolegomena to a Theory of Language and Résumé of a Theory of Language.
History of development Sketch Engine is a product of Lexical Computing, a company founded in 2003 by the lexicographer and research scientist Adam Kilgarriff.
This arrangement may have been facilitated by the originality of the concept and the prominence associated with the project.
Over time, it became customary for successful candidates to inscribe their names on the walls as a rite of passage.
Chomsky may have tentatively entertained the first of these ideas in the early 1960s, but quickly moved away from it to the second, and finally to the third.
The Foundation has undertaken a wide range of activities, including the publication of books, dictionaries, and research works related to tribal languages and culture.
The Language Observatory Project Mikami, Y., Zavarsky Pavol, Mohd Zaidi Abd Rozan, Izumi Suzuki, Masayuki Takahashi, Tomohide Maki, Irwan Nizan Ayob, Massimo Santini, Paolo Boldi, Sebastiano Vigna, In Poster Proceedings of the Fourteenth International World Wide Web Conference (WWW2005).
Comparison to real-time sociolinguistics Apparent-time sociolinguistics is often contrasted with real-time sociolinguistics.
Understanding keywords in this light becomes crucial for understanding how the politics of China evolves as Communism emerges and as the free market and citizens' rights develop.
Other famous members include Voltaire; Montesquieu; Victor Hugo; Alexandre Dumas, fils; Émile Littré; Louis Pasteur; Louis de Broglie; and Henri Poincaré.
Võro Institute (Võro: Võro Instituut, Estonian: Võru Instituut) is an Estonian state research and development institution dedicated to the preservation and promotion of the Võro language and culture.
A language observatory is something which is built or implemented to observe and measure language activities in society.
Dictionary and other publications Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka Brunei publishes Kamus Bahasa Melayu Brunei, the official dictionary of the Brunei Malay language, the de facto lingua franca in Brunei.
Hyperbaton Often adjectives are emphasised by separating them from the noun by other words (a technique known as hyperbaton).
In 1952 he served on the Advisory Committee on Arabic and Persian Names, a committee established by the United States Board on Geographic Names.
Selected publications Bresnan wrote an informal and somewhat humorous account of her career and works for her ACL Lifetime Achievement Award.
It was created as the Preparatory Commission for the Unification of the National Language by the Republic (then still based in Nanjing) on 21 April 1919.
The Consultant Council is composed by eleven specialists from all the world, and its mission is to advise the General Council in all the scientific matters that it is requested of.
True to Zipf's law, the second-place word "of" accounts for slightly over 3.5% of words (36,411 occurrences), followed by "and" (28,852).
The census for 1948 reported that 7,126,913 people or 37.11% of the population spoke the language, representing an increase of 11.7% from the 1939 figure of 4,068,565.
The committee was known in English as the Mandarin Promotion Council or the National Languages Promotion Committee until 2003, but the Chinese name has not changed.
As other West Germanic languages seem to attest a plural ending -ō (< Proto-Germanic -ōz), the precise origins of this new ending are uncertain.
Nevertheless, increased time spent may increase an individual's perceived speaking time and this may be the reason for the leader emergence.
Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad is a literary institution situated in the Indian state of Maharashtra for the purpose of the "furtherance of Marathi language and literature".
On the first of July 1974 the Institute of Modern Languages was established as an integral part of University of Dhaka, incorporating the Department of Foreign Languages of 1964 into its constitution.
The Tower of Babel is an international etymological database project that is part of the Evolution of Human Languages project.
The graph in the re-formulation by Mizutani is more easily interpreted, and shows a scatter plot of nouns versus other word classes.
Under the departmental plan for overseas, the General Delegation of the French language and the languages of France / Ministry of Culture and Communication, held in Cayenne, French Guiana, from 14 to 18 December 2011, the congress of multilingualism overseas (EGM-OM).
"Thinking the same as he had felt before." Dependent clauses with ut almost always follow the verb: Ubiīs imperat ut pecora dēdūcant.
History Coonceil ny Gaelgey was set up in December 1985 as a sub-committee of the Manx Heritage Foundation.
It has been used for research into topics such as pronunciation modeling and automatic speech recognition.
1890–1907.{{cite encyclopedia}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) "Академия Российская" [Russian Academy].
Zipf's law implicitly assumes a fixed vocabulary size, but the Harmonic series with s = 1 does not converge, while the Zipf–Mandelbrot generalization with s > 1 does.
As it was extremely difficult to standardize the spelling of kanak languages, a program was developed by the KLA and the University of New Caledonia that would propose a common writing standard.
(2008), "The Pai-lang songs: The earliest texts in a Tibeto-Burman language and their Late Old Chinese transcriptions", in Beckwith, Christopher I.
Limitations and misappropriates Despite being an excellent source of lexical information, the BNC can only really be used to study a limited set of grammatical patterns, particularly those which have distinctive lexical correlates.
Continuous Readings In recent years, AGAL has organized a series of continuous readings of Lusophone books.
Leiden University (abbreviated as LEI; Dutch: Universiteit Leiden) is a public research university in Leiden, Netherlands.
The GKA has a book publishing programme, but visibility of the books produced is seen as probably insufficient to what could be possible.
Its articles are a mix of Konknni written in Devanagari-script, the Roman (Romi) script, and occasionally in English too.
New words which have appeared enough in print and speech to be considered notable are added to Retskrivningsordbogen, which all government institutions and schools are obliged by law to follow.
The post of Irish language Commissioner (Irish: An Coimisinéir Gaeilge) is an office created by the Identity and Language (Northern Ireland) Act 2022 in Northern Ireland to promote and safeguard the respective language rights of Irish speakers in the country.
The recordings are also reused in Natural Language Processing projects, for example to drive Mozilla's DeepSpeech speech recognition engines.
After the Restoration of 1660 Around 1660 John Evelyn and Robert Boyle were interested once more in the idea of an academy.
Guide to the YIVO Archives (1998) – Comprehensive guide by Fruma Mohrer and Marek Web to the holdings of the YIVO archives.
The Vietnamese Nôm Preservation Foundation (Vietnamese: Hội Bảo tồn di sản Nôm; Hán Nôm: 會保存遺産喃), shortened as the Nôm Foundation and abbreviated as VNPF, was an American nonprofit agency for language preservation headquartered in Cary, North Carolina, with an office in Hanoi, Vietnam.
It is one of the oldest research institutes in the Tajik Academy of Sciences; it acts as the official authority on the language and contributes to linguistic research on the Tajik language and other languages of Tajikistan.
Calendar Names Expert Commission The Calendar Names Expert Commission deals with the person names and their inclusion into the calendar.
While no mental examination was conducted on AA during the time the naming experiments were performed, AA was tested using a Japanese version of the mini–mental state examination in June 2009.
Besides more popular test types, there are other methods like thermometer judgments or magnitude estimation (ME); however, it has been argued that ME studies have unproductive variation in their results.
Genre and mode SCOTS is a multimedia corpus, containing written texts and spoken texts, available as orthographic transcriptions, accompanied by source audio or video files.
of the Workshop on Balto-Slavic Natural Language Processing associated with the International Conference RANLP, Hissar, Bulgaria.
References External links ACM Award for Interlisp [1] Intelligent Linguistic Architectures CSLI book about Kaplan's work.
It currently contains more than 1 billion word forms that are automatically lemmatized and POS-/grammeme-tagged, i.e.
ISBN 978-90-420-1322-3 See also Slavistics External links Studies in Slavic and General Linguistics on the publishers website Department of Russian Studies & Slavic Languages and Cultures at Leiden University
1941–1942: Abraham Rosen (pseudonym "Ben Adir"), in Yiddish: אַבֿרהם ראָזין (פּסעוודאָנים: בן־אַדיר) 1942–1956: Isaac Nachman Steinberg, in Yiddish: יצחק נחמן שטיינבערג 1957–1979: Dr.
The Loeb Classical Library and the Clay Sanskrit Library are two examples of dual-language series of texts.
See also Alaska Native Language Center Alaska Native languages References External links Alaska Native Language Archive Digital Endangered Languages and Musics Archiving Network (DELAMAN)
If, instead of the Latin ones, the English cardinal numbers are furtherly used, then they are called "four-gram", "five-gram", etc.
Domain-specific hypothesis: this uses the theory of evolution to posit that certain categories that have an evolutionary advantage over others (such as useful items like tools) have specialized and functionally dissociated neural circuits in the brain.
In addition, an interministerial working group would be set up at the Prime Minister's Office to work on the preparation of a draft bill for the creation of this Language Academy.
As a result of this emphasis of temporary states, present participles represent the majority of the 4,541 terms in Column II.
The area Interaction is a leading international center for conversation research and interactional linguistics.
In 1996, the centre held a "Spellin Collogue" in an attempt to reform Scots orthography, but was ultimately unsuccessful.
Similarly, Greek numerical prefixes such as "monomer", "dimer", "trimer", "tetramer", "pentamer", etc., or English cardinal numbers, "one-mer", "two-mer", "three-mer", etc.
In 2006, the Danish Language Council went through changes in their organization, in which the position as a director was created, and Sabine Kirchmeier became the first in that position.
Another of its functions is to promote Mayan culture, which it does by providing courses in the country's various Mayan languages and by training Spanish-Mayan interpreters.
Groupe μ' (French for "Group μ") is the collective pseudonym under which a group of Belgian 20th-century semioticians wrote a series of books, presenting an exposition of modern semiotics.
Language learners can freely download pronunciations and use them on GoldenDict, a popular dictionary software.
In his opinion, the general world-view can be fragmented into different more local pictures of reality, such as naive geometry, naive physics, naive psychology, and so forth.
This is a blatant attempt to distract attention from the independent endorsement of the highly effective Safe Schools program.
Organizational programs provide an array of resources and activities to ensure the relevance of the Yiddish language to contemporary life.
It also has the task of coining such words from existing Turkish roots if no such equivalents exist, and actively promoting the adoption of these new coinages instead of their English equivalents in the daily lives of the Turkish population.
TEI and access The corpus is marked up following the recommendations of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) and includes full linguistic annotation and contextual information.
The Parishad according to Deshpande lead in the demand for the formation of a separate linguistic state – Maharashtra.
TDK also publishes Türk Dili, a journal on Turkish literature, since 1951, Belleten, the annual journal on Turkic languages, since 1953, and Türk Dünyası, another periodical published twice a year on Turkish language and literature since 1996.
Among the prominent members of this new generation of the Copenhagen School were Peter Harder, Elisabeth Engberg-Pedersen, Frans Gregersen, Una Canger and Michael Fortescue.
let me say here for the sake of any mathematician who may plan to formulate the ensuing data more exactly, the ability of the highly intense positive to become the highly intense negative, in my opinion, introduces the devil into the formula in the form of − i .
For the languages that make a distinction between palato-alveolar and retroflex affricates and fricatives (Mam, Ixil, Tektitek, Awakatek, Qʼanjobʼal, Poptiʼ, and Akatek in Guatemala, and Yucatec in Mexico) the ALMG suggests the following set of conventions.
As of December 16, 2018, Stanford lists forty-four books and papers that Bresnan has either authored or co-authored since 1996.
Specifically, it participated in the implementation of "FranceTerme", a terminological dictionary available to the general public on the internet.
The three groups discussed for two months and adopted 15 symbols from Zhang Binglin's all-Zhuanshu Jiyin Zimu (記音字母), which was the proposal by the Zhejiang Committee.
Some language councils are national and tied to a specific state, while councils without association to any country where the language is dominant also exist.
Publications The board has published over 700 books on various topics, including science, social sciences, history, children’s literature, and technical education.
Lia Rumantscha (Romansh: [liɐ̯ruˈmantʃɐ] ) is an organization that promotes Romansh language usage and study.
Those individuals who speak more also receive higher ratings on leader, communication and contribution-related measures.
Publications TSKK has come out with a number of publications in the Konknni language, or in languages like English introducing themes related to Konknni, which is India's smallest language, spoken mainly along the west coast of this country.
Currently, the Institute of the Lithuanian Language consists of six research centres and two non-research departments.
Among the most important tasks of the council were standardization of Bokmål and Nynorsk, linguistic advice and linguistic quality assurance of textbooks.
Research African American language studies Baugh's early research focused on the language and culture of African Americans, employing a combination of quantitative and qualitative sociolinguistic methods.
A seminar on "Language and Society in India" was held in 1967 and in 1969 the Central Institute of Indian Languages was founded, which had a particular success into drawing young linguists into applied studies.
If Latin numerical prefixes are used, then n-gram of size 1 is called a "unigram", size 2 a "bigram" (or, less commonly, a "digram") etc.
Along with joint attention, Clark found that in order for a child to learn the terms for colors, the child and adult must interact with conversation.
Other linguists have opposed that notion, arguing that languages are so diverse that the postulated universality is rare.
Opacity exists when a phonological rule that exists in a given language appears to be contradicted by the surface structure (i.e., actual pronunciation) of words in the language.
After the approval of the candidacy by the Cabinet, the director of the Centre is appointed by the Minister for Justice.
Its purpose was to prepare for the nationwide teaching of the Tagalog-based national language (Wikang Pambansa na batay/base sa Tagalog) by creating a dictionary and a grammar book with a standardized orthography.
In 2001, three additional volumes were published containing mostly words from the 20th century that were not included in the previous 43 volumes.
There may also be multiple language academies attempting to regulate and codify the same language, sometimes based in different countries and sometimes influenced by political factors.
Organisation The Gujarat Academy oversees five other academies; namely the Hindi Sahitya Academy for Hindi, the Sanskrit Sahitya Academy for Sanskrit, the Kutchi Sahitya Academy for Kutchi, the Sindhi Sahitya Academy for Sindhi and the Urdu Sahitya Academy for Urdu.
It is also used to ensure professional training and improvement towards those teaching the language.
Nevertheless, until the unappreciated concept in question has been thoroughly investigated and shown to be a real phenomenon, it is improbable that the term would be used by anyone other than its creator and achieve the status of neologism.
The library currently The library reopened at the end of 2006, at the same time that Paris Descartes Social Sciences Faculty moved from the Sorbonne to its new location in Rue des Saints-Pères.
SSGL appears at irregular intervals, but the editors aim at bringing out on the average one volume a year.
Vicente Aleixandre, 1950–1984, poet Pere Gimferrer, since 1985, poet P seat Jerónimo Pardo, 1714–1740.
Российская академия (1783—1841): язык и литература в России на рубеже XVIII—XIX веков [The Russian Academy (1783–1841): Language and Literature in Russia at the Turn of the 18th–19th Centuries] (PDF) (in Russian).
The Language Act was founded on the principle of Russian-Estonian bilingualism, requiring individuals in certain positions to demonstrate proficiency in Estonian in addition to Russian.
References External links (in Icelandic) The Icelandic Language Institute Webpage Archived 2007-05-07 at the Wayback Machine English version (in Icelandic) Glossary Database English version The Icelandic Language Institute from randburg.com
That idea is fundamental to the modern comparative method since it necessarily assumes regular correspondences between sounds in related languages and thus regular sound changes from the proto-language.
Recent work in behavioral economics has purported that elicitation techniques can be used to control subject misconceptions and mitigate errors from generally accepted experimental design practices.
The institution includes the most distinguished scientists, also called "academics", that are involved in research centers and other organisations inside and outside Albania.
According to the commissioner's website, there are two principles that underpin the work of the commissioner, namely: Welsh should not be treated less favourably than the English language in Wales People should be able to live their lives in Wales through the medium of Welsh if they so wish.
Organization In 2023, the Academy of Albanological Studies was integrated into the Academy of Sciences, while the latter was reorganized.
An elicitation technique is any of a number of data collection techniques used in anthropology, cognitive science, counseling, education, knowledge engineering, linguistics, management, philosophy, psychology, or other fields to gather knowledge or information from people.
(ed.), Medieval Tibeto-Burman Languages III, Halle: International Institute for Tibetan and Buddhist Studies GmbH, pp.
Since a newly elected member is required to eulogize their predecessor in the installation ceremony, it is not uncommon that potential candidates refuse to apply for particular seats because they dislike the predecessors.
(1994) showed that infants, aging three-days old, are sensitive to acoustic properties of a language.
This corpus first set the bar for the scientific study of the frequency and distribution of word categories in everyday language use.
The database consists of two major components: the digitalized recordings from MARSEC and the annotations.
Alignments of parallel corpora at sentence level are prerequisite for many areas of linguistic research.
Merlan (1994) 12 A Grammar of Berbice Dutch Creole – Silvia Kouwenberg (1994) 13 A Grammar of Norman French of the Channel Islands – Anthony Liddicoat (1994) 14 A Grammar of Supyire – Robert Carlson (1994) 15 A Grammar of Kayardild – Nicholas D.
The Scythian theory was further developed by Andreas Jäger (1686) and William Wotton (1713), who made early forays to reconstruct the primitive common language.
More specifically, infants by 2 months of age can from vague categories of different rhythmic structures, those that are native classes, and those that are nonnative.
Synopsis This book's general subject is structuralism, which is a way of looking at the world that focuses on how different parts relate to each other rather than on the individual parts themselves.
Chartered Institute of Linguists website CIOL Language Level Frameworks The Linguist – magazine published by the CIOL
Foras na Gaeilge ([ˈfˠɔɾˠəsˠ n̪ˠə ˈɡeːlʲɟə], "Irish Institute"; FnaG) is a public body responsible for the promotion of the Irish language throughout the island of Ireland, including both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
The Royal Flemish Academy for Dutch Language and Literature (Dutch: Koninklijke Academie voor Nederlandse Taal en Letteren, pronounced [ˈkoːnɪŋkləkə ˌaːkaːˈdeːmi voːr ˈneːdərlɑntsə ˈtaːl ɛn ˈlɛtərə(n)], abbr.
See also Sino-Tibetan Etymological Dictionary and Thesaurus International Conference on Sino-Tibetan Languages and Linguistics References External links Himalayan Languages Project official website The Kirat Rai Association's web portal
Elicitation, in which knowledge is sought directly from human beings, is usually distinguished from indirect methods such as gathering information from written sources.
A fifteen million word subset of the corpus, called the Open American National Corpus (OANC), is freely available with no restrictions on its use from the ANC Website.
The development of technology, new techniques and methodology relating to massive corpora have all consolidated this trend.
In September 2006, the Icelandic Language Institute was merged with four other institutes to form the Árni Magnússon Institute for Icelandic Studies.
In 2012, the center received a top rating of four stars from the Charity Navigator non-profit evaluation service.
It aims to promote scientific and technical knowledge in Urdu language through the publication of books and journals.
The Gujarat Sahitya Akademi (Gujarati: ગુજરાત સાહિત્ય અકાદમી) or Gujarat Sahitya Academy, established in 1981, is a government institution dedicated to the development of the languages spoken in Gujarat, India and their literature.
The section concludes with summaries of a number of different constructions, and a synopsis of the Breton mutation system.
These conversations were produced in different situations, including formal business or government meetings to conversations on radio shows and phone-ins.
The centre's aim is to carry out lexicographic research into needs-adapted information and data access, i.e.
Although "PropBank" refers to a specific corpus produced by Martha Palmer et al., the term propbank is also coming to be used as a common noun referring to any corpus that has been annotated with propositions and their arguments.
Collocations can be in a syntactic relation (such as verb–object: make and decision), lexical relation (such as antonymy), or they can be in no linguistically defined relation.
Another similarity among creole languages can be identified in the fact that questions are created simply by changing the intonation of a declarative sentence; not its word order or content.
SAM produced many speech research tools (including the SAMPA computer-based phonetic transcription which was also used for the BABEL project) and a corpus of recorded speech material distributed on CD-ROM.
In Europe, tag sets from the Eagles Guidelines see wide use and include versions for multiple languages.
Beyond text mining, topic models have also been used to uncover latent structures in fields such as genetic information, bioinformatics, computer vision, and social networks.
It was suggested that human language predates the out-of-Africa migrations of 50,000 to 70,000 years ago and that language might have been the essential cultural and cognitive innovation that facilitated human colonization of the globe.
Their idea is that "all representatives of the species Homo sapiens presumably share a common origin, [so] it would be natural to suppose – although this is a goal yet to be achieved – that all human languages also go back to some common source.
The understanding of the Etruscan language has gradually increased over the years, as new knowledge from the Etruscan texts themselves, and from research in other disciplines of Etruscology.
A group of academics was founded by ASALE in 2018 and submitted to the government of Israel for recognition.
Introduction Ministry of Education & Culture was the ministry that was responsible for education and culture in Somalia.
Its compilation started in 1998 at the Institute of Linguistics of the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, University of Zagreb following the ideas of Marko Tadić.
Organization The council is composed of 36 members, including linguists, scientists, other specialists (e.g., in law, history of art, computer science, medicine, physics).
The need for observatories According to the UNESCO report "Atlas of the World Languages in Danger of Disappearing", between 6,000 and 7,000 languages are spoken throughout the world and, that many more have become extinct.
Pritenic is a proposed reconstructed Celtic language (or a branch of languages), thought to be spoken by Picts and Priteni in Britain during late Iron Age.
References External links http://www.nepalbhashaacademy.org.np Archived 17 May 2013 at the Wayback Machine
African American Vernacular English: Features and Use, Evolution, and Educational Implications, Oxford (1999): Blackwell.
Here are further examples; these are word-level 3-grams and 4-grams (and counts of the number of times they appeared) from the Google n-gram corpus.
Instruction was for the most part organized in the form of intensive Summer Schools which were conducted by distinguished scholars invited from overseas, e.g.
[299 pp.] References External links Kira Hall's home page (as of June 2021) Kira Hall's home page, archived 2006 Program in Culture, Language and Social Practice
History Foundation and early history In 1575, the emerging Dutch Republic did not have universities in its northern heartland.
The Center for Jewish History is a partnership of five Jewish history, scholarship, and art organizations in New York City, namely the American Jewish Historical Society, American Sephardi Federation, Leo Baeck Institute New York, Yeshiva University Museum, and YIVO Institute for Jewish Research.
The Abuabdullo Rudaki Institute of Language and Literature (Tajik: Институти забон ва адабиёт ба номи А.
In the 1970s and 1980s they worked on developing a theoretical approach towards visual rhetoric and visual semiotics that involved classifying images according to their differences from plastic and iconic norms.
They note that Lhuyd partially identified Grimm's law, before the work of Jacob Grimm and Rasmus Rask, and produced more sophisticated work than the later work of William Jones.
The event was organized by Djibouti's Ministry of Islamic Affairs, Culture and Waqf in conjunction with the Somali-Speaking PEN Centre of Djibouti, and was attended by around 50 prominent Somali-speaking intellectuals from the region and elsewhere.
The Moscow linguistic circle was a group of social scientists in semiotics, literary theory, and linguistics active in Moscow from 1915 to ca.
There are also a number of functions offering statistical summaries of the collected texts References External links Official website
Fishman's history of the Paper Brigade in Vilna, recounting how YIVO scholars and activists rescued books and archival materials from Nazi destruction.
The Prague structuralists also had a significant influence on structuralist film theory, especially through the introduction of the ostensive sign.
The publication of new editions has often been a source of heated debate and national controversy, as recently as 1993.
On the other hand, in the Swedish language, the institute usually promotes Swedish usage, with the key aim to prevent the Swedish spoken in Finland from straying too far from its counterpart in Sweden.
Based on this, linguists focused more on the spoken forms of the language, and devoted more time to the study of non-standard dialects than previous linguists had done.
Initially, it was intended that there would be five members on the Coonceil, however, when Doug Faragher died in 1987 no appointment was made to replace him until 1996 when Brian Stowell was appointed.
It was then that the Act of the Ministry of Education of the Government of the then Socialist Republic of Macedonia for transforming the Department of the Macedonian Language and Literature at the Institute of Folklore into an autonomous Institute of the Macedonian Language was empowered.
In this collection all documents are categorized into different subjects such as political, cultural, etc.; in about 4300 different subject categories.
Two of the council's primary responsibilities are the promotion of the Maltese language, and establishing effective bilingualism between Maltese and English.
The 1991 census of India found 1,576 "mother tongues" with separate grammatical structures and 1,796 languages classified as "other mother tongues".
CIOL also hosts the IoL Educational Trust (IoLET), a charitable company limited by guarantee and an accredited awarding organisation.
The Bibliography is published on the authority of the Permanent International Committee of Linguistics (CIPL) and is in accordance with the rules of the International Standard Bibliographic Description (ISBD) and the International Federation of Library Associations (IFLA).
The original version of this article was translated, with adaptations, from the corresponding article on the Spanish-language Wikipedia.
With the cessation of its territorialist activity decades earlier, the Freeland League officially changed its name to the League for Yiddish on September 13, 1979, in order to continue its focus on promoting Yiddish as a living language.
Currently, the ANC includes a range of genres, including emerging genres such as email, tweets, and web data that are not included in earlier corpora such as the British National Corpus.
The corpus was collected under the direction of linguist Janet Holmes and includes broadcast transcripts as well as informal conversations, telephone conversations, lectures, and oral history interviews.
A brief timeline may help contextualize: Late 1950s - Moscow mathematical linguistics paves way for cybernetic theories of culture 1960s - Semiotics born out of cybernetics and information theory.
The decision to form the institute came about from a meeting in September 2000, in Miranda do Douro, where a number of persons interested in the language met, also passing the resolution to establish Mirandese under the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.
Flasdieck distinguished three phases: first private initiatives up to the middle of the 17th century; then the Restoration period in which the Royal Society and its membership took an interest; and a later period in which proposals to mirror the French Académie met with serious opposition.
Thus in addition to the distortion inherent in transcription, interpretation is complicated by the transmission history of the text and uncertainty about the pronunciation of Eastern Han Chinese.
After the failure of Old National Pronunciation, it moved towards what is now Modern Standard Mandarin in 1932, with pronunciation based on the Beijing dialect.
The theory provides a large and elaborate basis for linguistic description and, due to its formal character, lends itself particularly well to computer applications, including machine translation, phraseology, and lexicography.
This is extremely expensive, especially because analyzing the higher levels is much harder when multiple part-of-speech possibilities must be considered for each word.
He was himself the regent, and his friends Edward May, Michael Mason, Thomas Hunt, Nicholas Fiske, John Spiedal (Spidall), and Walter Salter were professors in various areas.
The academy was established after the National Language (Priority) Bill was ratified by President Mohamed Nasheed which was passed by the Parliament.
Further develop the Kven language, including writing a dictionary and education material for the Kven language.
The Bhawan was exchanged by the Nagaland Government with the earlier one, which was known as LAL GHAR and taken by the Nagaland Government in the year 1978.
The purposes of the organisation are limited to Dutch language and Dutch-language literature, and are hence not as wide as those of the Community of Portuguese Language Countries, La Francophonie or the Commonwealth of Nations.
The PropBank project has played a role in recent research in natural language processing, and has been used in semantic role labelling.
Research has shown the variable extent to which washback influences different individuals in different ways, and the difficulty of targeting washback.
With a view to meet this objective, the Tribal Research and Cultural Foundation has undertaken documentation of tribal culture and artifacts.
History The Spoken English Corpus (SEC) project was supported jointly in 1984-5 by the Humanities Research Fund at Lancaster University and by IBM (UK) Ltd, and subsequently by IBM UK Ltd.
The Institute for the Languages of Finland, better known as Kotus, is a governmental linguistic research institute of Finland geared to studies of Finnish, Swedish (cf.
During 2020, the Centre researched Scots exonyms for European settlements and countries and compiled a map based on this information the following year.
140–142, ISBN 0-521-63751-1, OCLC 40305532 External links Language Council of Sweden (in Swedish) Recent books published by the council
The majority of Hall's work focuses on language in India and the United States, with special attention to organizations of gender and sexuality.
The aim of the project is according to pages is "producing a web corpus of Buddhist texts for using in multilingual lexicography.
The idea of an all-Nordic cooperation was thwarted by the fact that all Nordic countries with the exception of Sweden were embroiled in the Second World War.
In 2012, the psycholinguistics sector was transformed into the department of psycholinguistics comprising the general psycholinguistics sector and the ethnopsycholinguistics sector.
History The establishment of the Lembaga Bahasa (Language Board) began with the approval of an usul (motion) during a Legislative Council meeting on 18 April 1960.
Devine and Stephens note for example that Livy is fond of putting the object after the verb at the end of the clause (e.g.
The questionnaire asks for various types of information, including plants, minerals, stones, birds, quadrupeds, and the weather.
The Traité du signe visuel (1992) (which Göran Sonesson said was to visual communication what Saussure's Cours de linguistique générale was to linguistics) sought to elaborate a general grammar of the image, independently of the type of corpus being considered.
Key words are calculated by carrying out a statistical test (e.g., loglinear or chi-squared) which compares the word frequencies in a text against their expected frequencies derived in a much larger corpus, which acts as a reference for general language use.
In the school year of 1940–1941, the teaching of the national language (wikang pambansa), with its new standardized orthography, was set by law in the fourth year of all high schools in both public and private schools throughout the country.
The corpus is accompanied by an online teaching and learning toolkit – Y Tiwtiadur – which draws directly on the data from the corpus to provide resources for Welsh language learning at all ages and levels.
The Class of Letters (Portuguese: Classe de Letras) of the Lisbon Academy of Sciences holds an official consultative role on the Portuguese language in Portugal.
A proposal was made to the European Union under the Copernicus initiative in 1994, with the objective of creating a corpus of spoken Bulgarian, Estonian, Hungarian, Polish and Romanian, and Grant #1304 was awarded for this.
History In July 1947, the Department of International Relations was established at the University of Dhaka.
Very active societies include the Genealogical Society, the Archaeological Society, and the Biological Society.
Karnataka Konkani Sahitya Academy is formed in the Indian state of Karnataka to promote Konkani language and literature.
Authorship studies now usually use a wide range of measures to look for patterns rather than relying upon single measurements.
History Yerevan State University, which temporarily operated from Alexandropol starting in 1919, served as the Republic's initial hub for cultural, educational, and scientific activities.
It was classified into two sections: a New Linguistic Survey of India and a Survey of Minor and Endangered Languages.
It is not a goal of CSL to search for entities of human language that distinguish it from other forms of animal communication.
Examples Cussel an Tavas Kernuak (the Cornish Language Council) European Language Council Norwegian Language Council Polish Language Council Swedish Language Council See also Académie française List of language regulators == References ==
Language Inspectorate (Estonian: Keeleinspektsioon) is a governmental body under the Ministry of Education of Estonia.
On May 25, 2017, Andrej Kibrik was elected the director of the Institute of Linguistics by the general meeting of the researchers.
A variety of textbooks, graded readers, and Yiddish materials available through the League for Yiddish's website.
The Languages of Arunachal Pradesh Part One: Hindi Edited by Lisa Lomdak Part Two: English Edited by Lisa Lomdak 5.
The inspectorate was founded in 1990 as the State Language Board with the mandate to facilitate the republic's expectation that people offering services to the public should speak Estonian, as stated by the Commissioner for Human Rights.
It was established in 2005 and replaced the Norwegian Language Council (Norsk språkråd, Urban East Norwegian: [ˈnɔʂk ˈsprôːkrǒːd]) which existed from 1974 to 2005.
Responding to issues related to language for institutions and private bodies, and collaborating with institutions and media that have a significant impact on language, such as government administration, schools, newspapers, radio and television.
The largest phoneme inventories are found among African languages, while the smallest inventories are found in South America and Oceania, some of the last regions of the globe to be settled.
It includes language from the UK, the United States, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, the Caribbean, Canada, India, Singapore, and South Africa.
References External links Japan-Netherlands Institute Publications at the Wayback Machine Repository of The Japan-Netherlands Institute at the Leiden University Office Tokyo
The Tabular Parser: A Parsing Program for Phrase-Structure and Dependency, RM-4933-PR, Santa Monica, The RAND Corporation, July 1966.
The Language Council of Sweden (Swedish: Språkrådet) is the primary regulatory body for the advancement and cultivation of the Swedish language.
An Coimisinéir Teanga ('The Language Commissioner') is an office created by the Official Languages Act 2003 in Ireland to promote and safeguard the respective language rights of Irish and English speakers in Ireland.
Key activities The institution has published a wide range of general, scientific and technical dictionaries and an Urdu Thesaurus.
The project was funded by the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders and the Office of Research at Ohio State University.
Four levels of certificate courses are offered for each language, Bengali being the only language exclusively reserved for foreign international students.
The commission focuses mainly on the revision and publication of the Afrikaanse Woordelys en Spelreëls (AWS; "Afrikaans Word List and Spelling Rules"), a standard guide to the spelling and related writing conventions of Afrikaans.
A contact call origin for human language is consistent with animal studies, as like human language, contact call discrimination in monkeys is lateralised to the left hemisphere.
It was born in 2009, evolving from the association's previous Área Editorial da AGAL (AGAL's Editorial Area), thus gaining greater entity and autonomy.
Duke of York derivations are described to be similar to the little nursery rhyme that accompanies its name: a certain process turns A into B, and then another process turns B back into A, seemingly achieving nothing.
In addition to providing financial support, Lhuyd's subscribers had also been encouraged to contribute research material.
O vozmožnom metode i instrumentax semantičeskogo sinteza (On a possible method and instruments for semantic synthesis).
The Institute of the Mirandese Language (Mirandese: Anstituto de la Lhéngua Mirandesa) is the institution responsible for the representation, research, promotion, codification and distribution of the Mirandese language.
Covering both British and American varieties of English in all of these registers but the last one, the descriptions in LGSWE are based on a language corpus exceeding 40 million words and as such this grammar has been widely praised as a new milestone in corpus-based grammatical studies.
Each line consists of a list of comma-separated values, with the first term being the root word, and all following words being related terms.
The rapid loss of Old English verbal prefixes is attributed to the fact that Old Norse had already lost most of the Germanic prefixes, and so lacked cognates for English prefixed verbs.
The Japan-Netherlands Institute was dissolved in 2013, and many of its activities have since been continued by the Leiden University Office Tokyo.
Using the position of the prosodic boundaries, adults were able to determine which category the ambiguous word [mɔʀ] belonged to, since the word is assigned to a different phonological phrase, depending on its syntactic category and semantic meaning in the sentence.
The Institute has a non-binding recommendation that Norway, Denmark, and Iceland also use the Swedish names for Finnish locations, for instance Helsingfors for Helsinki, and which is accepted by the Language Council of Norway.
Denham, also says that the book explains the work of significant structuralist critics, making it a useful introductory work.
If we look back at /teo/, where Palatalization precedes Deletion, /t/ precedes /e/, therefore palatalizes into /tʃ/.
The Global Language Monitor (GLM) is a company based in Austin, Texas, that analyzes trends in the English language.
The Languages of Gujarat, Diu, Daman and Dadra & Nagar Haveli Part One: Hindi Edited by Kanji Patel Part Two: English Edited by Kanji Patel Part Three: Gujarati Edited by Kanji Patel Images of the cover pages References External links https://www.bhasharesearch.org/plsi
Texts are provided with metamarkup (by date of creation of the text, sex, place and year of birth of the author, Internet genre, etc.); all texts are provided with automatic morphological tagging and lemmatization.
History Of all the Slavic maticas, Matica Srpska was the first to be established in the Habsburg Empire at the time of a Serb national and cultural awakening.
The Commission has prepared several draft legal acts and has participated in the formation of the normative basis for the Official Language Law.
It has 21 full members, 19 foreign members and 15 honorary members, and its current (as of 2017) president is Xosé Antón González Riaño.
Loss of grammatical gender in English appears to have occurred first in the north and east, the regions of greatest Scandinavian settlement.
Analysis of these restrictions can lead to discoveries about the structure and development of a language.
In the 1920s, language began to be seen as a social phenomenon, and Russian and Soviet linguists tried to give a sociological explanation to features of language.
It has previously gone by a number of names, including the Academy of the Korean Language (국어연구소) when it was first founded as a non-government organization in 1984, and the National Academy of the Korean Language (국립국어연구원) when it became a government agency in 1991.
Research bulletin One of the activities of the TSKK is the publication of a research bulletin called Sod.
Aims The linguistic and literary study of Valencian, inside the general frame of the Catalan language and literature.
The Academy has been given some awards and distinctions, and it has the support of notable cultural and political personalities, along with the patronage of the Spanish Monarchy.
in linguistics in 1995 from the University of California at Berkeley, writing her dissertation under the supervision of Robin Lakoff, and has held academic positions at Stanford, Yale, and Rutgers Universities.
The Fryske Akademy (West Frisian pronunciation: [ˈfriskə akəˈdeːmi]; Frisian for Frisian Academy), founded in 1938, is the scientific centre for research and education concerning Friesland and its people, language and culture, this in its broadest sense.
The Himalayan Languages Project was officially commissioned by the government of Bhutan to devise a standard romanization of Dzongkha.
A pilot project to create a small corpus of spoken Bulgarian was carried out jointly by the Universities of Sofia (Bulgaria) and Reading (U.K.).
Троцкий (Leon Trotsky): Формальная школа поэзии и марксизм (глава из книги «Литература и революция», 1923) (in Russian: Russian)
Jha has been described as "the most noteworthy contribution to the field of Maithili linguistics." == References ==
The Office québécois de la langue française (pronounced [ɔfis kebekwa də la lɑ̃ɡ fʁɑ̃sɛːz], OQLF; lit.
History It was decided in a draft on 7 August 1912, a month after a July 10 conference led by Cai Yuanpei, that a set of phonetic symbols were to be used for education purposes.
Mildura The Mildura Campus was established in 1996, co-located with the main campus of the Sunraysia Institute of TAFE.
The academy is also the home of Fryske Rie foar Heraldyk, a heraldic advisory board for the Frisian region.
The new version of Lingua Libre is based on MediaWiki, uses Wikibase and OAuth to better integrate into the Wikimedia environment.
It was dissolved under political pressure as "formalism" came to be a political term of opprobrium in the Soviet state.
The Akademie was founded in Bloemfontein in 1909, and its branch, the Spellingskommissie ("Spelling Commission"), in 1914.
There was an Office Building at the Heart of the Kohima Town, which was known as "LAL GHAR" due to painting with Red color.
The transcription system is explained by Williams, and an experiment was conducted by Brian Pickering to assess the degree of agreement between the two transcribers on a section of the Corpus containing around 1000 tone-units which was transcribed by both transcribers.
The child's understanding of the tints or shade of a hue increases when presented by older individuals around them.
The Slavic Linguistic Atlas The Slavic Linguistic Atlas (Russian Общеславянский лингвистический атлас) represents ongoing work, beginning in 1958, with several periodic progress reports being issued over the following decades.
The corpus can be browsed, for example by the author's name or date of the text, and all texts can be downloaded in plain text format.
Notable members Among the most notable current members of the council are: Jerzy Bartmiński Andrzej Blikle Jerzy Bralczyk Andrzej Markowski Jan Miodek References External links Official webpage
The project is a venture by the Department of English Language and STELLA project at the University of Glasgow.
The Russian Academy or Imperial Russian Academy (Russian: Академия Российская, Императорская Российская академия) was established in St.
Heinrich Beck: Die germanischen Sprachen der Völkerwanderungszeit, in: Werner Besch / Anne Betten / Oskar Reichmann / Stefan Sonderegger (ed.), Sprachgeschichte.
The School's main objective was to popularise contemporary achievements in its many academic fields.
Its successor, the Academy of the Hebrew Language, has continued this mission of creating new Hebrew words to keep up modern usage.
Baugh's contributions to forensic linguistics have built upon his formulation of linguistic profiling, and his work has been used in legal cases involving hostile work environments, unequal access to housing, and murder.
The audio and text files, together with time-aligned phonetic labels, are stored in a format for use with speech analysis software (Xwaves and Wavesurfer).
The Bijankhan corpus (Persian: پیکرهٔ بی‌جن‌خان) is a tagged corpus that is suitable for natural language processing (NLP) research on the Persian language.
The Institute for the Croatian Language (Croatian: Institut za hrvatski jezik, IHJ), formerly known as the Institute for the Croatian Language and Linguistics until 2023, is a state-run linguistics institute in Croatia whose purpose is to "preserve and foster" the Croatian language.
The association Verein kriegskind.de is among those that published search efforts (Suchbitten) to identify Lebensborn children.
The gross reproduction rate (GRR) is the average number of daughters a woman would have if she survived all of her childbearing years, which is roughly to the age of 45, subject to the age-specific fertility rate and sex ratio at birth throughout that period.
Angiosperms exhibit three patterns of megasporogenesis: monosporic, bisporic, and tetrasporic, also known as the Polygonum type, the Alisma type, and the Drusa type, respectively.
History The church gained early attention in 1995 because of its affiliation with paranoia.com, which hosted many controversial sites during the late 1990s and early 2000s.
These include sporadic wet and sporadic dry, describing animals that breed sporadically not always under favorable conditions of rain or lack thereof.
"Recommended practices for the management of embryology, andrology, and endocrinology laboratories: a committee opinion".
Virility (from the Latin virilitas, manhood or virility, derived from Latin vir, man) refers to any of a wide range of masculine characteristics viewed positively.
Background The TwoDay method is a simple fertility awareness method requiring users to check for cervical secretions twice a day.
In 1995, she received a Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBChB) from the University of Edinburgh Medical School.
In some versions, she buries each part where she finds it, causing the desert to put forth vegetation.
Some animals that are long day breeders include ring-tailed lemurs, horses, hamsters, groundhogs, and mink.
A single semen sample is not determining for disease diagnosis, so two different samples have to be analyzed with an interval between them of seven days to three months, as sperm production is a cyclic process.
The story deals with humanity in an age of intelligent machines and of the aching loneliness endemic in an overpopulated future where child creation is controlled.
The first plants were aquatic, as described in the page Evolutionary history of plants, and released sperm freely into the water to be carried with the currents.
The collection of semen is preserved by stabilizing the properties of the sperm cells such as the membrane, motility, and 'DNA integrity' in order to create a sustainable viable environment.
A decrease in estradiol as well as oxidative stress leads to apoptosis of the granulosa cells off the oocyte which deteriorates oocyte quality.
Moreover, some researchers have found that some men can have multiple orgasms, despite what Masters and Johnson had reported.
This is a list of women said to have given birth to 20 or more children and men said to have fathered more than 25 children.
He also helped to establish and advocate for the Office of Minority Affairs within the School of Medical Sciences at Arkansas.
It uses hormonal stimulation to trigger the production of multiple eggs, which are surgically removed and frozen for storage and future use.
Little evidence exists to suggest that high-fertility parents appear to be economically disadvantaged, further strengthening the fact that total fertility rates tend to be higher among women in rural areas.
In Tendai Buddhism Ugajin was syncretically fused with Buddhist goddess Benzaiten, which became known as Uga Benzaiten or Uga Benten.
In some cases these deities are directly associated with these experiences; in others they are more abstract symbols.
The success rate for is lower than most women expect, requiring, on average, about 10 frozen eggs to be used for each live birth.
List of countries 1950 to 2015 List of regions References External links United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs – Population Division – World Population Prospects, the 2017 Revision
Selective estrogen receptor modulators Clomiphene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM).
The sudden rise in calcium levels causes the flagellum to form deeper bends, propelling the sperm more forcefully through the viscous environment.
Practice Committee of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine; Practice Committee of the Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology; Practice Committee of the Society of Reproductive Biologists and Technologists (October 2014).
Career and research While a graduate student at the University of Iowa, Sherman also worked in the campus library and as a janitor in addition to his research assistant duties.
Trans-cervical sampling involves inserting a catheter through the cervix into the placenta to obtain villi; an ultrasound is used to guide the catheter to the site of sampling.
A person's access to contraception is critical for ensuring their optimal health and achieving their reproductive goals as it allows individuals to have control over their body and freedom to decide when to become a parent.
Medabon Medabon is another product developed by the Concept Foundation which induces medical abortion.
In an attempts to estimate the prevalence of AS in the general population, it was found in 1.5% of women undergoing hysterosalpingography HSG, and between 5 and 39% of women with recurrent miscarriage.
It was particularly useful in assessing the extent to which sperm from a potential donor could penetrate cervical mucus when artificial insemination was principally performed by ICI or IVI, rather than by IUI.
Biography John Billings was born in Melbourne and was educated at Xavier College, and at the University of Melbourne where he received his Doctor of Medicine degree.
A 1992 Danish meta-analysis, commonly known as the Carlsen study after its principal author, showed that between 1938 and 1990 a population described as healthy had experienced a significant decrease in sperm count and semen volume.
Those born after the Russian Revolution were explicitly told that they were to build a utopia of brotherhood and justice, and to not be like their parents, but completely Red.
His book Counselling in Male Infertility was published in 1996; he contributed to a number of newspaper articles and appeared on several current affairs television programmes.
Animal studies have demonstrated these genetic abnormalities, in addition to physical changes in the mitochondria themselves and reduced ATP production.
The exact percentage purity of each population is dependent on the species being sorted and the 'gates' which the operator places around the total population visible to the machine.
While genetics is not the exclusive cause of mating systems within animals, it is influential in many animals, particularly rodents, which have been the most heavily researched.
Immigrant sex workers in Malaysia who get pregnant have entered into such exchanges as it is illegal for them to bear children.
Black women were determined by the Western world to have a wild, promiscuous nature and immoral, loose, and impure practices and values.
It has remained popular for over eighty years, in large part because of the simplicity of the calculation.
It is believed that worshippers would push the pointed legs into the earth to erect a temporary shrine for the goddess.
Then, a flat layer cell forms on the exterior of this cavity, and the zona pellucida, the blastocyst's barrier, remains the same size as before.
For Easterlin, the size of the cohort is a critical determinant of how easy it is to get a good job.
It records that Amaterasu came to Emperor Yūryaku in a dream and told him she alone was not able to supply enough food and needed him to bring Toyuke-no-Ōkami (等由気大神), the kami of divine food, from Manai Pond in Hiji Village, Tanba Province.
The R0 is particularly relevant where sex ratios at birth are significantly affected by the use of reproductive technologies, or where life expectancy is low.
Neural connections between the sensory cortex and thalamus develop as early as 24 weeks of gestational age, but the first evidence of their function does not occur until around 30 weeks.
The majority of items were published from 1970 to the present, but there were selected citations dating back to 1827.
In the final analysis, doesn’t it make sense that those who see children as gifts from God would have more children than those who see children as economic cost units?
Sanger was mainly active in the United States, but had gained an international reputation by the 1930s.
This allows males (XY) to have equal genetic activity as females (XX), whose X's are not hyperactivated.
On February 19, 2020, the first pair of Cheetah cubs to be conceived through embryo transfer from a surrogate cheetah mother was born at Columbus Zoo in Ohio.
They may also develop incompetent cervix where the cervix can no longer support the growing weight of the fetus, the pressure causes the placenta to rupture, and the mother goes into premature labour.
Many consider the rhythm method to have been obsolete for at least 20 years, and some even exclude calendar-based methods from their definition of fertility awareness.
in: Michael von Wolff, Petra Stute: Gynäkologische Endokrinologie und Reproduktionsmedizin: Das Praxisbuch.
Tubal obstruction is caused by infection, endometriosis, myomas, salpingitis isthmica nodosa (SIN), or dried mucus.
While Rachel is devastated, Richard admits to being relieved that they are finally done with trying, as their marriage and intimacy have suffered.
Other national-government responses include recommendations by the UK's National Health Service for a healthy lifestyle and loose-fitting underwear to improve fertility.
that medical science should by the study of natural rhythms succeed in determining a sufficiently secure basis for the chaste limitation of offspring." This is interpreted as favoring the then-new, more reliable symptoms-based fertility awareness methods over the rhythm method.
Defoe accomplished this through anecdotes, such as a conversation between two women in which the right-minded chides the other for asking for "recipes" that might prevent pregnancy.
In both species more brightly colored males mated with more brightly colored females and less brightly colored individuals paired with one another.
He failed to notice that a trailer carrying a full-sized bulldozer had detached from the large dump truck he was driving, as he passed through South Jersey's largest traffic circle.
related in some way to woman's proper function as a fertile being (which allowed her to promote the fertility of crops too, by sympathy)".
Many people fear that if anonymous donation is made illegal, then the number of donors will decrease and there will not be enough supply.
Other plants with similar reproductive strategies include Psilotum, Lycopodium, Selaginella and Equisetum.
When controlling for the age of the female partner, comparisons between men under 30 and men over 50 found relative decreases in pregnancy rates between 23% and 38%.
The current (2015–20) estimate for the R0 worldwide under the UN's medium variant model is 1.09 daughters per woman.
Pharmacokinetics When ganirelix is given to healthy adult females, steady-state serum concentrations are reached, on average, after three days ("Ganirelix acetate injection," 2009).
One-third of the female population, thirteen million women, were actively engaged in a Nazi Party organisation, and female membership in the Nazi Party increased steadily until the end of the war.
In popular culture The Czech TV film Spring of Life (2000) tells the story of a Sudeten German teenager recruited as a future mother into a Lebensborn in Poland.
Where pregnancy occurs in these individuals, there are high risks associated with the health of the offspring due to pregnancy complications.
See also Sperm bank Gene bank Artificial insemination Genetic counseling Genetic testing New eugenics Safe upper age limit for women donating ova Eugenics Infertility Surrogacy Commercial surrogacy Assisted reproduction Designer babies == References ==
In vitro fertilization is the most well known of the assisted reproductive technology procedures performed at a fertility clinic.
The sociologist Jean Stoetzel (1910-1987), who founded IFOP in 1938 after working as an internee for Gallup in America, was a pioneer of survey studies at INED.
Like humans engaging in sexual activity primarily for pleasure, this behavior in these animals is also presumed to be for pleasure, and a contributing factor to strengthening their social bonds.
Individuals also reported that voluntary sterilization (for both males and females) was most common among Germany, Spain, and Denmark.
These references may be used by medical providers as well as patients to assess their eligibility to use individual contraceptives like birth control pills, intrauterine devices, and implants.
Also, morphological features of the oocyte that can be obtained by standard light or polarized light microscopy.
Reception Journalist and author Matthias Kamann saw AM as an attempt to give those in the AfD a platform "who want it to be hard conservative, but factual - not ethnic or insulting.
Identity In response to the disturbance caused by the unknown presence, Ibudhou Thangjing traveled from the northern foothills and met Ibudhou Oknarel.
See also Demographics of Russia References (2007) More than 1,476 thousand new Russians were born - 19 thousand more than in 2005 - Higher School of Economics
According to the American Eugenics Archive, "race suicide" conceptualizes a hypothetical situation in which the death rate of a particular "race" supersedes its birth rate.
When the sperm is exposed to chemo-attractant, especially progesterone; the sperm will exhibit sudden flagellar arrest, followed by sharp turn and hyperactivation.
Due to the lack of reliable evidence from controlled clinical trials, it is not certain which semen preparation techniques are more effective (wash and centrifugation; swim-up; or gradient) in terms of pregnancy and live birth rates.
These intersections of beliefs created Korea's own version of "Good Wife, Wise Mother" (Ryōsai Kenbo) called Hyonmo Yangcho.
Because of this, plant-based oral contraception in history is often contested, though archaeological and written record shows evidence that drugs were a reliable way to prevent conception or even induce early-term abortions.
There are many groups around the world which oppose to ARTs, including religious groups and pro-life charities such as LIFE.
Karachay-Cherkessia, Adygea and North Ossetia) and some parts of Arctic Russia (Murmansk, Komi, etc.).
Occurrence Trioecy is a relatively common sexual system in plants, estimated to occur in about 3.6% of flowering plant species, although most reports of trioecy could be misinterpretations of gynodioecy.
"Outcomes From Treatment of Infertility With Natural Procreative Technology in an Irish General Practice".
One of the biggest problems in women who have to undergo chemo- or radiotherapy is premature ovarian failure (premature ovarian insufficiency) and its associated infertility.
Shettles, Richard Einhorn, From Conception to Birth: The Drama of Life's Beginnings, Harper Row, 1971 Publications by Landrum B.
After his retirement from the VUB in September 2012 Professor Devroey joined the team of IVF centre Jan Palfijn Hospital in Ghent, where he focuses on the most challenging cases of infertility.
Durkheim suggests that the name "churinga" is normally a noun, but can also be used as an adjective meaning "sacred".
Diabetes mellitus and pregnancy deals with the interactions of diabetes mellitus (not restricted to gestational diabetes) and pregnancy.
According to this teaching, people should oppose him, abandon his world, not create people, and trust in the good God of mercy, foreign and distant.
These women could only use primitive methods of abortion, which led to infection, sterility, or even their own death.
Because of his link to the grape harvest, however, it is not surprising to see Dionysus associated with Demeter and Kore in the Eleusinian Mysteries.
The medium is replaced every 2 days and after 6 days the culture is fixed or frozen for further processing.
Diagnosis If both partners are young and healthy and have been trying to conceive for one year without success, a visit to a physician or women's health nurse practitioner (WHNP) could help to highlight potential medical problems earlier rather than later.
All medical content found on Bedsider was developed with the assistance of many experts who are a part of The National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy’s Medical Advisory Committee.
The prospective beneficence asymmetry: it is strange to mention the interests of a potential child as a reason why we decide to create them, and it is not strange to mention the interests of a potential child as a reason why we decide not to create them.
Poland's capitalist government and its chief of state, Marshal Józef Piłsudski, were fierce anti-communists; all parties or groups affiliated with Communist activities were banned and its members sent to Bereza Kartuska concentration camp in eastern Poland.
The World League for Sexual Reform officially came into existence on July 3, 1928, at its congress in Copenhagen.
The original painting is now lost, but a colossal copy of the painting exists, painted by the artist Titian and known as Venus Anadyomene by Titian.
Zygote intra fallopian transfer (ZIFT) is an infertility treatment used when a blockage in the fallopian tubes prevents the normal binding of sperm to the egg.
Once infection has been eliminated, surgery may be successful in opening the lumen of the fallopian tubes to allow a successful pregnancy and birth.
But if her peers decide she has crossed an invisible, constantly shifting boundary and has become too 'slutty,' she loses all credibility.
This type of life history is especially well known among certain bamboos (family Poaceae) some of which have a life cycle of 40 to 50 years.
Infant mortality rates are indicative of fertility rates as couples decide to have a lot children knowing that a number of them will die so that even after those children die, they have sufficient kids to aid in agricultural work.
Limitations Similar to other fertility awareness methods, the TwoDay Method requires women to abstain from vaginal sex or use a barrier method on days identified as fertile.
Many worshippers celebrate the day with carnations, coloured if the mother is living and white if she is dead.
The intent of these recommendations was to allow public health programs in individual countries to tailor contraceptive safety guidance to their particular populations.
Vegetation goddess figurines from the Cucuteni-Trypillian culture have a lozenge and dot pattern that represents a sown field and female fertility.
It acts as a buffer to protect sperm cells from their own toxic byproducts, as well as protecting the sperm from cold shock and osmotic shock during the chilling and shipping process (the semen is chilled to reduce metabolism).
Consultancy work with the UK division of Ares Serono (1986–1994) also involved work with the Bourn Hallam Group, which Patrick Steptoe and Bob Edwards had set up after Louise Brown's birth.
Philosophical issues The distinction in ethical value between existing persons and potential future persons has been questioned.
Loans were offered to married couples, with part of the loan cancelled for each new child, and any married man who had more than six children was made exempt from taxation.
in 1967, and entered the contact lens business when it acquired British lens maker GlobalVision in 1972.
OBGYN News, October 15–31, 1982, for example, reported on a study of undersea divers in Australia showing that their offspring were almost 2-1 female.
"'Reichsbund der Kinderreichen' : the League of Large Families in the Population Policy of Nazi Germany".
This was so unusual the Government sent someone out to the town to investigate the cause for the high birth rate.
Another organization that offers these services is the National Embryo Donation Center, which requires recipients to be a heterosexual couple that have been married for at least three years.
Ala is also responsible for many aspects of Igbo society and guardianship of women and children in general.
Cytoplasmic transfer was created to aid those who experience infertility due to deficient or damaged mitochondria, contained within an egg's cytoplasm.
81% of variation in ovarian reserve is due to age alone, making age the most important factor in female infertility.
Estradiol cypionate/medroxyprogesterone acetate (brand names Cyclofem, Lunelle; code name Cyclo-Provera), is a once-a-month combined injectable contraceptive which contains 25 mg of medroxyprogesterone acetate—the same ingredient in Depo Provera—and 5 mg of estradiol cypionate.
Pilgrims to Mecca and tombs of saints are also garlanded since it is believed they preserve the life force of a tree.
The average fertility rate in countries such as Thailand or Chile approached the mark of one child per woman, which triggered concerns about the rapid aging of populations worldwide.
Liberation of blood cell debris into the circulation will also cause disseminated intravascular coagulation.
"Conjugal Lewdness or, Matrimonial Whoredom" (later retitled "A Treatise Concerning the Use and Abuse of the Marriage Bed" for propriety) is a 1727 essay by Daniel Defoe.
In countries such as Canada, the UK, Australia and New Zealand, a maximum of two embryos are transferred except in unusual circumstances.
"Good Wife, Wise Mother" accompanied the existing phrase "wealthy country and strong army" (fukoku kyohei).
These cells remodel the spiral arteries to improve and secure maternal blood flow to the growing embryo.
In the cult, a mother goddess represented by a trinity was worshiped, along with a heroic young god would die and be reborn in an unending cycle due to his father, the supreme god.
Recently, a systematic review that looked at studies evaluating the link between RPL and smoking was unable to find a significant difference in risk of recurrent pregnancy loss between people that smoke and non-smokers.
federal government-promoted abstinence-only program was aimed at teens in 1981 in order to discourage premarital sex and unwanted pregnancies.
This cannot be seen as abortifacient because, by any of the above definitions, pregnancy has not started.
They led a nomadic agrarian lifestyle, including hunting, fishing, farming, and firewood collection, and had a daughter named Macha Ibemma.
Medications Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome is particularly associated with injection of a hormone called human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) which is used for inducing final oocyte maturation and/or triggering oocyte release.
The muscle that surrounds the vaginal opening grows tighter and the uterus elevates and grows in size.
Whereas cranial irradiation will disrupt the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis (HPG-A), causing subsequent disruption of hormone secretion.
Women who are breastfeeding or have recently used contraceptive injections must wait before using CycleBeads.
Women of reproductive age who undergo cytotoxic chemotherapy have been pretreated with GnRH agonists to reduce the risk of oocyte loss during such therapy and preserve ovarian function.
The jus trium liberorum (Latin, "the right of three children"; also spelled ius), was a privilege awarded to Roman citizens who had produced at least three children or to freedpersons who had produced at least four.
Women may choose between several methods of fertility preservation prior to chemotherapy, including cryopreservation of ovarian tissue, oocytes or embryos.
However, there is no clear tendency in recent publications to a general increase in predictive value of morphological features.
Due to the fact that women bear the children and therefore cannot reproduce as often as men, their records are often shared with or exceeded by their partners.
Courtship occurs before copulation and is often facilitated after receiving a chemical signal from pheromones.
Programs that covered both STD prevention and pregnancy, rather than just one topic alone, had more positive effects on teenagers use of effective contraception, as did programs that had interactive elements when compared to programs that did not.
The hypothesis as formulated by Richard Easterlin presumes that material aspirations are determined by experiences rooted in family background: he assumes first that young couples try to achieve a standard of living equal to or better than they had when they grew up.
Using this procedure that allows the detection of bacteria that cannot be cultured outside the body, studies of microbiota present in the uterus are expected to increase.
Neither candidate was elected, with party leader Herman Kelly receiving 2,441 (0.67%) first preference votes, and Cahill receiving 10,582 (1.47%) first preference votes.
In the same year, the short story was republished in the eponymous Aldiss short-story collection Supertoys Last All Summer Long and Other Stories of Future Time, along with the tie-in stories Supertoys When Winter Comes and Supertoys in Other Seasons.
The risk of having a large-for-gestational-age baby and higher birth rate, in addition to maternal hypertensive disorders of pregnancy may be increased using a "freeze all" strategy.
Origin The legend tells that the son, or daughter (in other versions), of the spirit Pillan Antu wanted the power of his father.
To achieve this end, it utilizes a number of factors that differentially favor one gender or the other, including timing of intercourse relative to ovulation time, position during sex and other factors.
Fusobacterium nucleatum, a Gram-negative bacteria commensal to the oral microbiome, is associated with periodontal disease and has been linked with a wide variety of health outcomes, including unfavorable pregnancy outcomes.
Cross-checking the cervical mucus with another donor semen will confirm whether antibodies are cervical or seminal.
This situation was presented in a 2001 documentary called Children Underground, which depicted the life of Romanian street children.
The flowering periodicity in all individuals is rarely 100%, with the result that flowering of rare individuals in non-mass-flowering years is not uncommon.
Generally, the main purpose of storing ova, at present, is to overcome infertility which may arise at a later age, or due to a disease.
For this reason the technique is unsuitable for routine use Moreover, even if Salpingoscopy is carried out in individual cases, the macroscopic examination is not fully revealing.
During this time, a male feels a deep and often pleasurable sense of relaxation, usually in the groin and thighs.
With mucus-only methods, there is a possibility of incorrectly identifying mid-cycle or anovulatory bleeding as menstruation.
The amount of screening the embryo has already undergone is largely dependent on the genetic parents' own IVF clinic and process.
Department of Health and Human Services proposed a regulation to protect certain actions of health workers: refusal to provide patient services that the health workers believe to be abortifacient.
In those who are overweight or obese, levonorgestrel is less effective and an IUD or ulipristal is recommended.
Preterm birth is associated with certain species of bacteria that are not normally part of the healthy uterine microbiome.
The Chinese government decided to allow families to have a second child to supposedly grow a bigger work force and allow the aging population to relax more.
In 2016, Toronto's Muddy York Brewing Company produced a Stork Derby Stout as a nod to the unusual event.
Prudence, Grace, and Ted manage to acquire supplies of pills, Grace through a prescription written by Huart, and Ted from the local chemist, or pharmacist, who happens to be a friend of his.
Alcohol Maternal alcohol use leads to disruptions of the fetus' brain development, interferes with the fetus' cell development and organization, and affects the maturation of the central nervous system.
The causes of a large percentage of stillbirths is unknown, even in cases where extensive testing and an autopsy have been performed.
Do it for Denmark is a Danish media and advertising campaign designed to increase the birth rate of the nation.
Subsequent reviews in 2000 and 2004 elaborated on the concept which has been extended to encompass all placental animals with live birth.
Embryos from rescued in vitro-matured metaphase II (IVM-MII) oocytes show significantly higher fertilization rates and more blastomeres per embryo compared with those from arrested metaphase I (MI) oocytes (58.5% vs.
Subjects covered internationally included family planning methods and programs, fertility, and population law and policy.
Xochiquetzal, goddess of fertility, beauty, female sexual power, protection of young mothers, pregnancy, childbirth, and women's crafts.
Juno is a member of the folate receptor family and is GPI-anchored to the plasmalemma of the mammalian egg cell that recognizes its sperm-riding counterpart, IZUMO1, and facilitates fertilization.
Eurostat calculates the fertility rate based on the information provided by national statistics Institutes affiliated to Eurostat.
Much of this was for foreign consumption, where it was widely disbelieved, with President Franklin D.
The law also imposed penalties on orbi, that is, married persons who had no children (qui liberos non habent, Gaius, ii.111) from the age of twenty-five to sixty in a man, and from the age of twenty to fifty in a woman.
They argue that a person can be created for the sake of their parents or other people, but that it is impossible to create someone for their own good; and that, therefore, following Kant's recommendation, we should not create new people.
Fertility options for women Options for women to have children after cancer have increased significantly in recent years.
For example, if you have 12 individuals in an age class and they produced 16 surviving young, the Fx is 16, and the mx is 1.336.
In postmenarchal girls, about 80% of the cycles are anovulatory (ovulation does not actually take place) in the first year after menarche, 50% in the third and 10% in the sixth year.
A small opening is made in the outer layer surrounding the egg in order to help the embryo hatch out and aid in the implantation process of the growing embryo.
For the male, semen collection is a standard diagnostic test to ascertain problems with the semen quality, while females may undergo a number of tests including an ovulation analysis, x-ray of fallopian tubes and uterus, and laparoscopy.
If the value is more than one that indicates that the next generation of women will outnumber the current one.
In continuous breeders, females are sexually receptive during estrus, at which time ovarian follicles are maturing and ovulation can occur.
Those who had three children living at Rome, four in Italy, and five in the provinces, were excused from the office of tutor or curator (Inst.
It is often regarded as the extent to which the generation of daughters replaces the preceding generation of women.
William McGurn, editor of the New York Post, reviewed the book favorably for the Wall Street Journal, but was critical of Last for having 'too much confidence' in his pessimistic scenarios.
2019–2023 2008–2018 Wake Island has fewer than 300 occupants, mainly related to activities of the United States Air Force, none of whom is considered a permanent resident.
Function The addition of extender to semen protects the sperm cells against possible damage by toxic seminal plasma, as well as providing nutrients and cooling buffers if the semen is to be cooled.
However, another study found that cohabiting couples in France have equal fertility as married ones.
The fertility rate equals the expected number of children born per woman in her child-bearing years.
History The European Commission gave marketing authorization for ganirelix throughout the European Union to N.V.
A law project sent reluctantly by the government of President Laura Chinchilla was rejected by parliament.
Prevention Physicians can reduce the risk of OHSS by monitoring of FSH therapy to use this medication judiciously, and by withholding hCG medication.
Sperm donation may provide the source for the sperm used in IVF procedures where the male partner produces no sperm or has an inheritable disease, or where the woman being treated has no male partner.
Gynecologic ultrasonography or gynecologic sonography refers to the application of medical ultrasonography to the female pelvic organs (specifically the uterus, the ovaries, and the fallopian tubes) as well as the bladder, the adnexa, and the recto-uterine pouch.
Death John Billings died, aged 89, on 1 April 2007, at a Richmond aged care centre, survived by his wife, children and large extended family.
An electronic, flexible scope with a camera can also be inserted through the cervix to display live images.
Within 1–3 months of removing the intrauterine device, however, patients should experience a return to their normal menstrual cycle.
Photoperiod likely affects the seasonal breeder through changes in melatonin secretion by the pineal gland that ultimately alter GnRH release by the hypothalamus.
Origin The original birth control necklace was invented in 1989 by the Austrian gynecologist Maria Hengstberger who developed this necklace together with local Ethiopian women and adapted it to their wishes and needs.
Fathers This section lists men who have produced at least 25 or more children, usually with different women.
Porcine uterine serpin binds non-covalently to uteroferrin in a way that stabilizes the iron-binding capacity of uteroferrin.
Reproduction is published on behalf of the Society for Reproduction and Fertility in the United Kingdom.
Background In 1939, Baby Train was mentioned in Christopher Morley's novel Kitty Foyle: "The first thing you hear mornings in Manitou is the early Q train to Chicago.
Thus, they are distinct from seasonal breeders that rely on changes in day length to induce entry into estrus and to cue mating, and continuous breeders like humans that can mate year-round.
Description Marriage loans were created by the "Law for the Reduction of Unemployment" of June 1, 1933.
How married persons may be guilty of conjugal lewdness, and that a man may, in effect, make a whore of his own wife.
Most commonly, spermatozoa live only one to three days in the presence of fertile mucus, with survival up to five days being rare.
The presence of the blastocyst means that two types of cells are forming, an inner-cell mass growing on the interior of the blastocele and cells growing on the exterior of it.
Later 20th century to present In the first half of the 20th century, most users of the rhythm method were Catholic; they were following their church's teaching that all other methods of birth control were sinful.
Many social norms or practices affect fertility regulation including celibacy, the age at marriage and the timing and frequency of sexual intercourse, including periods of prescribed sexual abstinence.
The event is designed to reduce what some Russian elements view as increasing sexlessness among young people in Russia.
Some definitions consider sperm activation to consist of these two processes of hyperactivation and the acrosome reaction.
Klinefelter syndrome is a chromosomal defect that occurs during gamete formation due to a non-disjunction error during cell division.
Others may do it by relaxing the area around the penis, which may result in harder erections especially when extremely aroused.
Journals Human Reproduction is published on behalf of the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
The term fecundity in population biology is often used to denote the rate of offspring production over one time step (typically annual).
These men were treated using FSH treatments and had testicular biopsy's performed on them before and after the treatment had been administered in order to track progress.
The party's registration was subsequently completed, and the Irish Freedom Party (IFP) was included on the Register of Political Parties as of 13 June 2019.
The decline is particularly prevalent in Western regions such as New Zealand, Australia, Europe, and North America.
have shown that despite the older maternal age at birth of the first child, the time span between the birth of the first and the second child, the interpregnancy interval, decreased over the last decades.
Fertility in art refers to any artistic work representing or portraying fertility, which usually refers to successful breeding among humans, although it may also mean successful agriculture and animal husbandry.
Embryokines (Greek: embryuon "embryo" + kinōs "movement") are regulatory molecules produced by the oviduct and endometrium in the reproductive tract that modulate embryonic growth and development.
Print version: The full print document of the US Medical Eligibility Criteria is intended to describe in further detail the medical evidence for each recommendation.
When people searched for him, they eventually found Mukasa sitting under a tree in an island far away from his home.
Aphroditus was portrayed as having a female shape and clothing like Aphrodite's but also a phallus, and hence, a male name.
To avoid the development of endometrial cancer, young women taking estradiol replacement need to also take a progestin in a regular cyclic fashion.
Criticism In 2018, Södersjukhuset, a hospital in Stockholm, Sweden, filed a complaint with the Medical Products Agency of Sweden after 37 women who had been using Natural Cycles as their primary method of contraception sought an abortion at the hospital after becoming pregnant unintentionally.
A solution to the problem is to adopt impersonal views, theories that don't rely on the notion of personal identity, such as utilitarianism.
The production of fertile cervical mucus is caused by estrogen, the same hormone that prepares a woman's body for ovulation.
The decline in ovarian reserve appears to occur at a constantly increasing rate with age, and leads to nearly complete exhaustion of the reserve by about age 51.
The figures given are from the 2021 census; the lowest birth rate recorded in Russia was in 1999, it increased thereafter and the birth rate is 9.6 in 2021 compared to 8.7 in 1999.
Sperm washing involves removing any mucus and non-motile sperm in the semen to improve the chances of fertilization and to extract certain disease-carrying material in the semen.
Numerous fund-raising activities have been conducted by various parties, such as the 1990 album Nobody's Child: Romanian Angel Appeal, which was compiled by George and Olivia Harrison for AIDS-infected orphans.
Couples show similarities in terms of their contributions to public betterment and charities, and this can be attributed to mate choice based on generosity rather than phenotypic convergence.
The most common way to obtain a semen sample is through masturbation or withdrawal method and the best place to obtain it is in the clinic where the analysis will take place in order to avoid temperature changes during the transport that can be lethal for some spermatozoa.
While reproduction is generally independent of photoperiod, animals can still experience reduced fertility with changes in day-length.
Despite the advertisements' obvious irony, it did in fact result in an increase of the Danish birth rate.
The tetrasporic pattern is characterized by cell plates failing to form after either meiosis 1 or 2, and results in one four-nucleate megaspore.
By the 16th century, Inari had become the patron of blacksmiths and the protector of warriors, and worship of Inari spread across Japan in the Edo period.
Barton's second husband, sex researcher Bertold Wiesner, is believed to have been in charge of recruiting sperm donors for Barton's clinic.
The kitsune statues are at times taken for a form of Inari, and they typically come in pairs, representing a male and a female.
See also Cornucopia References External links Kalathos from Kalymnos 1130BC-1090BC, British Museum Kalathos : The Collaborative Numismatics Project Mycenaen Ceramic Kalathos, Phoenix Ancient Art
A furious political debate raged in the 1980s over the ethics of baby food companies marketing infant formula in developing countries.
Artificial insemination using a sperm donor for LGBTQ+ individuals and couples is one of the more cost-effective avenues to parenting.
Religion Although the 1948 Constitution and its two successors provided a simulacrum of religious freedom, the regime in fact had a policy of promoting Marxist–Leninist atheism, coupled with religious persecution.
Hystero contrast sonography (HyCoSy) Hystero contrast sonography (HyCoSy) is a transvaginal ultrasound imaging technique used to evaluate the uterus, fallopian tubes and ovaries.
If this condition is diagnosed, some sources suggest taking guaifenesin in the few days before ovulation to thin out the mucus.
Other research suggests that timing of conception has no effect on miscarriage rates, low birth weight, or preterm delivery.
Fertility A woman typically ovulates at only one time during her cycle (except those with hyperovulation), and an unfertilized ovum can survive for only 12–24 hours.
Studies about the value of progesterone supplementation remain deficient, however, such supplementation is commonly carried out on an empirical basis.
This idea claims that the genetic selection of traits that increase an organism's fecundity is, in turn, advantageous to an organism's fitness.
Mühlenberg focuses on de-Nazification in the American sector, although the British zone is also discussed.
Ireland Since 1 January 1995, stillbirths occurring in Ireland must be registered; stillbirths that occurred before that date can also be registered but evidence is required.
History Prelude Fertility was founded by Martin Varsavsky following his and his wife’s experience with fertility treatment and IVF.
(see References) There were many commentaries on these laws or on this law by the Roman jurists, of which considerable fragments are preserved in the Digest: Gaius wrote 15 books, Ulpian 20, and Paulus 10 books at least on this law.
Mucus can be sampled with by either wiping with toilet paper or inserting a clean finger into the vagina.
GnRH agonists that are used mostly or exclusively in veterinary medicine include deslorelin and fertirelin.
Abstinence-only sex education programs have been found to be ineffective in decreasing rates of HIV infection in the developed world and unplanned pregnancy.
In developed countries and at facilities where expert neonatal care is available, it is considered from 22 completed weeks (usually about 154 days) of gestation (the time when birth weight is normally 500 g) to 7 completed days after birth.
Other researchers have stated that there is a lack of concordance between women's subjective sexual arousal and their genital arousal.
Fructose level Fructose level in the semen may be analysed to determine the amount of energy available to the semen for moving.
In March 2019, Prelude announced a partnership with Inception Fertility and also announced TJ Farnsworth as the company’s new CEO.
The size of the penis statues, which number well over 100, is said to range "[from] the size of a cream doughnut to the size of a canoe"; some are huge, some are humorous and painted pink to closely resemble a human phallus.
Population control In the 20th century, several authoritarian governments sought either to increase or to decrease the birth rates, sometimes through forceful intervention.
Increased awareness during the 1990s expanded the scope of research to address social and biological factors.
Use The hamster zona-free ovum test was frequently performed by sperm banks when screening potential sperm donors.
Medabon combines mifepristone and misoprostol, two abortifacients which health organizations had already deemed safe and effective.
Oshun is the deity of the river and fresh water, luxury and pleasure, sexuality and fertility, and beauty and love.
Martins da Silva's research investigates the functionality of sperm cells, particularly the sperm-specific calcium channel CatSper, and how modern lifestyle choices may affect sperm function.
The most notable example was the controversy surrounding the historian Fernando Paz, the party's leading candidate in Albacete for the April 2019 general election, who resigned after suffering what he described as "a mediatic hunt", due to Holocaust denial and homophobia.
Contraindications There are very few relative or absolute contraindications to the etonogestrel implant.
In Thailand the village ghosts or fairies related to trees such as Nang Takian and Nang Tani are known generically as Nang Mai (นางไม้).
The cervix is cleaned with an antiseptic such as iodine and injected with a local anesthetic to minimize discomfort and pain.
Their views are not necessarily limited only to humans but may encompass all sentient creatures, arguing that coming into existence is a serious harm for sentient beings in general.
(Fertility protection in leukemia patients), information of the European Leukemia Information Center (ELIC) of European LeukemiaNet (in German language)
The variability in definitions is in part explained by the effects of increasing age occurring as a continuum rather than as a threshold effect.
The San Francisco Chronicle described the term as "a joking or derogatory slur used by gays to describe heterosexuals".
Oocyte cryopreservation is now considered a well-established technique for fertility preservation in women.
Shettles in the 1960s and was publicized in the book How to Choose the Sex of Your Baby, coauthored by Shettles and David Rorvik.
Factors associated with unintended pregnancy Unintended pregnancy typically occurs after sexual activity without the use of contraception, or not using it correctly.
The people there did not seem different from people in other small towns, so he couldn't understand why they got three times as many children.
Pre-transfer immunization with antigens from the species providing the embryo has promoted more rapid and uniform failure of the interspecies pregnancy in mice, but increased survival in horse-donkey experiments.
Background In 1996, the World Health Organization created a set of guidelines called "medical eligibility criteria for contraceptive use" for family planning and reproductive health programs and providers in order to guide provision of contraceptive care worldwide.
Certain environmental toxins such as phthalates, bisphenols, and dioxins are also associated with POI.
Scorpions, however, are either ovoviviparous or viviparous, depending on species, and bear live young.
Principles of ovarian culture can be applied to women who are resistant to FSH or oestrogen sensitive tumours.
The pregnancy and implantation rates in ZIFT cycles are 52.3 and 23.2% which were higher than what was observed in IVF cycles which were 17.5 and 9.7%.
It has been suggested that chromosomal duplication plays an important part in the evolution of trioecy.
From the trial's transcript: The prosecution has failed to prove with the requisite certainty the participation of Lebensborn, and the defendants connected there with in the kidnapping programme conducted by the Nazis.
After having difficulty becoming pregnant, her mother sought help from Mortimer and eventually became pregnant in 1980.
Safe sex and birth control There are a variety of safe sex methods that are practiced by heterosexual and same-sex couples, including non-penetrative sex acts, and heterosexual couples may use oral or anal sex (or both) as a means of birth control.
Unsurprisingly, high first-birth ages and high rates of birth postponement accompany low and lowest-low fertility.
Legal specifics The jus trium liberorum was a reward gained by compliance with the leges Iulia and Papia Poppea.
The outcome from using cryopreserved embryos has uniformly been positive with no increase in birth defects or development abnormalities, also between fresh versus frozen eggs used for intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
He took his BA degree from Mississippi College in 1933 with special distinction; Doctor of Science from Mississippi College in 1966; Master of Science of the Fellow from the University of New Mexico in 1933–1934; he received his Ph.D.
The term covers a wide variety of situations and degrees of economic, social, and physical coercion.
The Church of Euthanasia is also notorious for its conflicts with anti-abortion Christian activists.
Fertiloscopy, a relatively new surgical technique used for early diagnosis (and immediate treatment).
Prolonged time in the plateau phase without progression to the orgasmic phase may result in sexual frustration.
If the OHSS develops within an IVF protocol, it can be prudent to postpone transfer of the pre-embryos since establishment of pregnancy can lengthen the recovery time or contribute to a more severe course.
Increased levels of salinity in drying vegetation cause females to experience a reproductive hiatus.
DNA testing Due to the advent of genetic genealogy and DNA databases, even sperm donors who have not initiated contact through a registry are now increasingly being traced by their offspring.
Stewart Wallace, the author of "The Canadian Immigration Policy," endorsed the idea of race suicide.
An R0 of one means that each generation of mothers is having exactly enough daughters to replace themselves in the population.
Martins da Silva's work on male infertility was motivated by the unexplained decrease in male fertility in the late 20th and early 21st centuries.
Whilst based in Berlin, Turville-Petre was an active member of the Scientific-Humanitarian Committee, which campaigned for gay legal reform and tolerance, and attended the Second Congress in Copenhagen in 1928.
Vegetation myths have structural resemblances to certain creation myths in which parts of a primordial being's body generate aspects of the cosmos, such as the Norse myth of Ymir.
Indeed, it is considered impossible to cease reproduction based on social factors, and fecundity tends to rise after a brief decline.
"The American Fertility Association Brings Fertility Education to San Francisco or Parent Hopefuls - Straight and Gay".
Seeds generated by apomixis are a means of asexual reproduction, involving the formation and dispersal of seeds that do not originate from the fertilization of the embryos.
Reports from July 1899 suggest that he had eloped with a young woman from Reading, Pennsylvania, and had joined in the Klondike Gold Rush.
In human semen extenders, antibiotics are required for regulatory reasons, so their use is almost universal in clinics, even though antibiotics can be detrimental to sperm.
Ala's messenger and living agent on earth is the python (Igbo: éké), which is especially revered in many Igbo communities.
Illustrations on south-Italian vases make use of the calathus as a symbol of a future marital relationship.
Snails, for example, cannot reproduce successfully in an environment low in calcium, no matter how much food there is because they need this mineral for shell growth.
As of 2019, the Prelude Fertility Network of clinics included 23 fertility practices and 36 locations in the U.S.
Smoking: There is limited research that directly looks at the association of cigarette smoking and RPL.
The Slut Walk movement has embraced the slut-shame label and has engaged in an act of resignification.
Some research suggests increased risks for health problems for children of older fathers, but no clear association has been proven.
Ionescu still held a deputy's seat at Roman in 1884, returning to Chamber for a final term in the October 1888 election, but at Iași.
The newest and certainly most understandable model of this necklace is called "Baby Necklace", since the beads of the days of highest fertility have the shape of a baby.
Another large group of flowering plants is the Asteraceae or sunflower family with close to 22,000 species, which also have highly modified inflorescences composed of many individual flowers called florets.
Separately, reviewers and user feedback describe alerting based on unusual increases in activity (eg.
History On June 16, 2001, 16-year-old Zef Hemel along with collaborators Jeff Lewis, Corey Chapman, T.
In September 2010, i-Jet Media and Playdom announced that i-Jet Media would publish social games by Playdom in European social networks.
Moon Palace was the only place in the world where Mitron energy could be used legally, making it far more abundant than any other part of the world, and many people in the world wanted to live there.
Modeled after the traditional “public square” where townspeople would gather to exchange views, a digital public square provides a virtual platform for the exploration of issues and the sharing of ideas, creativity and opinions while developing solutions to a community's challenges.
Google allowed third parties to build their own Wave services (be it private or commercial) because it wanted the Wave protocol to replace the e-mail protocol.
The League is a social and dating mobile application launched in 2015 and available in several cities all over the world on iOS and Android.
The project describes itself as having a core of volunteers; some contributors have been paid for their work.
Because Betable possesses gambling licenses from the United Kingdom Gambling Commission that allow it to provide gambling services on another party's behalf, developers can enable betting within their games without applying for any licenses themselves.
The ability to like users' comments was added in June 2010, and the ability to react with one of five pre-defined emotions, including "Love", "Haha", "Wow", "Sad", or "Angry", was added in May 2017.
On the back of investments made into Club Nokia, Nokia launched a new service Preminet to its operators, designed to distribute certified Java- and Symbian-based mobile software to make cell-phone applications easier to buy, sell, and distribute.
The shortest distance between you and your customer." Get Satisfaction online communities can be a private and/or public place for customers to ask questions, submit an idea or complaint, or give praise.
Monilink Limited (stylized MONILINK) was the banking service operating in the United Kingdom that gave customers access to their financial information directly from their mobile phones.
The creation of a new standard for decentralized social networking was prompted by the complexity of OStatus, the most commonly used protocol at the time.
References External links Announcement of PlayNow arena Announcement of PlayNow plus Official PlayNow arena with movies website
Zeal – volunteer-built Web directory; it was introduced in 1999, acquired by LookSmart in 2000, and shut down in 2006.
The WordPress Mobile Pack was initially developed in 2009, by James Pearce, who is now running open source at Facebook, with the contribution of Terence Eden, a Mobile Product Manager at O2 (UK), and Andrea Trasatti part of Developer Relations, at the Samsung Strategy and Innovation Center.
In 2012, the company won the second round of Appsfuel HTML5 App Challenge and Mobile Web App of the Day Award from TheFWA.com.
On December 1, 2017, Style Jukebox discontinued their service with a very small post on their home page, and no further details were released.
Channels The vast majority of BreadTube content is in English, and most BreadTubers are American or British.
With Matt Bruck and Khinlei Myint-U, the team wrote a business plan and Agents Inc took second place in the 1995 MIT 10K student business plan competition.
History Rumors about the service began to surface around the internet in September 2008, whereas it was referred to as "Skymarket", and was to appear with the Windows Mobile 7 release.
Other media Anime An anime adaption of the game, titled as Slap-up Party: Arad Senki (スラップアップパーティ −アラド戦記−, Surappuappu Pāti -Arado Senki-; lit and titled in original Korean as Dungeon and Fighter: Slap-up Party (던전 앤 파이터 슬랩업 파티).
Collaborative software is a broad concept that overlaps considerably with computer-supported cooperative work (CSCW).
Alternative app stores use Android devices' "Unknown Sources" option to install APK files directly via the Android Package Manager.
Hatena Bookmark counts the number of users per specific URL, and so it is possible to see what bookmarks are popular among Hatena users.
History While being the main project within its lineage, GNU social originally began as a fork of StatusNet.
Dalilmasr – Egyptian online directory Google Directory – copy of DMOZ directory, with sites listed in PageRank order within each category.
Corcoran decided to create a more open marketplace for indie games in MoonScript, inspired by Bandcamp's model.
It's a fact, and a well-known fact I think, that the level of take-up of the Ultranet has been nothing like what was intended." An audit by the Victorian auditor general's office found "the Ultranet was poorly planned and implemented.
During September - November 2010 the company went through Startupbootcamp located in Copenhagen, Denmark.
Following the discontinuation of Zune hardware in 2011, the software program was put into maintenance mode.
The service was offered directly to consumers and SME:s, but also indirectly with a white label solution via partners such as telecom operators, ISP:s and large consumer brands.
DSNP can improve user data privacy and security by permitting fine-grained management of their personal information.
BBS: The WELL, GEnie, The Meta Network Academic: EIES, Usenet Webcomic: UserFriendly, Penny Arcade, Sluggy Freelance Virtual world/city: LucasFilm's Habitat, Second Life, Millsberry, Red Light Center, IMVU, Neopets, Roblox IM: ICQ, Yahoo!
In October 2022, Magpie Games announced that early access for Avatar Legends Nexus, Demiplane's digital toolset Avatar Legends: The Roleplaying Game, was launching that month.
As with other similar platforms, such as the Google Play and Mac App Store, Microsoft Store is curated, and apps must be certified for compatibility and content.
The like button is one of Facebook's social plug-ins, in which the button can be placed on third-party websites.
Thomas initially funded the company himself, with servers operating out of the basement of his home.
This is a list of notable social software: selected examples of social software products and services that facilitate a variety of forms of social human contact.
Creating 3D Posts There were four ways to get a 3D asset to appear in a Facebook Post: Drag and drop an asset into Facebook's Post composer and publish it.
See also Citizen journalist Mobile journalism Ushahidi References External links Wireless and the Future of the Newspaper Business
Players can create and customize their own 3D worlds and 3D content such as vehicles, mini-games, avatar clothing and gestures, and sell them for real world money.
This provides a positive and encouraging learning environment for students, especially students in a virtual classroom.
Founded in 2013, the company produces and distributes live shows (such as sports or music events) and video clips (such as pre-match warm-ups, behind-the-scene activities, and instant highlights).
while users can select a preference for the race of partners they'd like to meet, it's not a hard filter.
Under the plan, developers who carry out ad campaigns on DU Ad Platform will receive 100 percent of the revenues from those campaigns.
Social technology is also split between human-oriented technologies and artifact-oriented technologies.
See also Comparison of file hosting services Comparison of file synchronization software Comparison of online backup services Cloud storage Remote backup service References External links Syncplicity website Syncplicity Ad
This list is a comparison of web conferencing software available for Linux, macOS, and Windows platforms.
As of May 2023, the protocol was reported to have over 18 million registered users across its network.
Actor Dylan McDermott was introduced to WhoSay by his agent, as a way of easily posting content to Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr and even China's Tencent social network with relative ease.
The exact nature of this relationship changes according to the intention of the annotation, but the body is most frequently somehow "about" the target.
Originally developed by Facebook engineers after the 2011 Japanese tsunami, Safety Check for Workplace allows organizations to identify employees who may be affected by a crisis and send and monitor responses.
Users could access application descriptions, screenshots, user reviews and ratings, and download or purchase software directly on their devices.
Restaurants, cafes and bars can be filtered across multiple criteria: Wi-Fi, 24/7, playground, non-smoking, and more.
History In 2007, UNICEF Innovation used RapidSMS to develop U-Report, a platform that would allow anyone to publish real-time information and data analytics in SMS format without the need of a programmer.
Use on Facebook The like button is a feature of social networking service Facebook, where users can like content such as status updates, comments, photos and videos, links shared by friends, and advertisements.
Latterly, Monilink offered customers the chance to check their bank balance in real-time, view a mini statement detailing the last six transactions and add credit to up to five pay as you go phones.
Previously aligned with the promotion of ringtones, wallpapers, and SMS subscription services, mobile phone content advertising now applies to in-app ads, webpage ads, social media campaigns, video ads, push notifications, and content sponsored with creators.
Both brands of AlterGeo and Gvidi were given the highest possible index of AAA in the Russian Startup Rating, and top its IT section.
See also COVID-19 pandemic in Iran References External links https://shad.ir/ Archived 2021-07-28 at the Wayback Machine Official website
Technology In 2013, Vibes initiated the deployment of Wallet Manager, a platform enabling enterprises to develop and oversee mobile wallet campaigns utilizing Apple's Passbook and Google Wallet.
It claims to be able to publish customers' banners throughout the Internet (via several RTB ad exchanges) and display them on desktop and mobile devices within small geographic areas (the minimum radius is 500 meters).
The handheld features four lettered buttons (X, Y, A, B), a directional pad, and Start, Select, and Power buttons.
There are also massively multiplayer collectible card games: Alteil, Astral Masters and Astral Tournament.
LIBOX offered this service for free thanks to a patent pending combination of peer-to-peer, grid and distributed computing technologies.
While the Ultranet was designed with online safety as a priority, the lack of modern Web 2.0 tools forced users to embed content from other sources, somewhat undermining the safety and privacy priority.
iOS client Interfaces The communication between the Android client applications and the store is done using a XML file called info.xml.
Along with the announcement, they released the first official module for Dungeons & Dragons 5th edition, Lost Mine of Phandelver, on the Roll20 Marketplace; which was followed by other releases.
This is based on the results of the October 2022 Cross Web Mediascope study, implemented on the Android-only approach.
History The Amazon Appstore launched on March 22, 2011 and was made available in nearly 200 countries.
It was founded on January 31, 2007, by several people, including Lane Becker, Amy Muller, Thor Muller, and Jonathan Grubb.
Mobile content is any type of web hypertext and information content and electronic media which is viewed or used on mobile phones, like text, sound, ringtones, graphics, flash, discount offers, mobile games, movies, and GPS navigation.
The transfer of assets from LLC to NPO was completed in April 2011 and in May 2011, Simple Machines, LLC was dissolved.
According to the 2012 verdict of the Labour Court of Budapest, Unisys acted illegally and was ordered to pay unpaid wages and benefits, legal costs, and three months' average salary as compensation.
D2L Lumi In 2024, D2L launched D2L Lumi, a set of artificial intelligence-powered features to support building content, assessments, and activities.
Sony tried to leverage the Cybershot technology in a multimedia strategy, but it was too slow of a change.
A later review (under EMC ownership) found that Syncplicity might not be able to compete well with Dropbox and Sugarsync on price and storage, but has features, including security and availability, that might be attractive to business users.
Acquisition by Roll20 In June 2024, it was announced that the virtual tabletop (VTT) company Roll20 had acquired Demiplane.
Two days after it was launched in February 2023, Damus was removed from the Chinese version of the App Store per a directive from the Cyberspace Administration of China.
Lewis and Fung split off from the YaBB SE team to try a different approach for addressing the YaBB SE efficiency problems, security concerns, and to add new features.
Companies can respond to issues regarding their products or services; official responses are marked as official answers to separate them from other responses.
Organization Simple Machines Forum is an open-source discussion board software project of volunteers participating in various operating functions including development, customization, documentation, localization/translation, user support, and marketing.
Style Jukebox was a hi-fi high-resolution audio cloud music streaming and storage player for the Windows, iOS, Android and Windows Phone platforms.
The 2022 version contained more than 500 items, and raised US$216,000 for 431 creators even though it had a "pay what you want" option.
Cotter attributes that to "the community hosting a spectrum of beliefs, ranging from social democratic to Maoist".
Brendan Jordan hosted Club Q on April 29, 2020, where Big Freedia, Uffie, Aluna (of AlunaGeorge), Messer (Mitch Grassi), Casey MQ, Edge Slayer, and drag performers Junior Mint and Paris L'Hommie performed.
The fifth drop box is the “Nuclear Energy”, which when picked up recharges the Overdrive – a unique hull ability.
Results indicated that organizations still rely on outdated, standardized IT models, preventing them from benefitting from newer networked technologies.
Later, the community created a public facial recognition database to quickly find suspects in terabytes of footage.
Taiwanese BBS software Formosa BBS Formosa BBS established in October 1992 by Professor Nien-Hsing Chen of the National Sun Yat-sen University (NSYSU).
Samsung Mobile Applications, an app store powered by Handango launched at Mobile World Congress 2009 providing software for Windows Mobile, Symbian, and (from August) Java ME.
As of December 2025, the App Store hosts Absher (application), a stalkerware app by the Saudi government.
The rules of the game are based on real hockey rules with some variations due to the 2d nature of the game.
On the other hand, Mohammad Mehdi Nooripour and Majid Najafizadeh, Representatives of students and teachers of Iran thanked the Minister of Education for setting up this network at a meeting of Student Organization.
And we eventually got to this idea of a thumb going up with a number next to it, which, again, I know it sounds simple, but we’ve never seen that before." Digg allowed users to discover and share web content by submitting links and voting them up ("digg") or down ("bury").
Both the website and the mobile site include information on short film festivals that take place across Europe.
In February 2015, Vibes unveiled WalletAds, a product facilitating advertisers' integration with Apple's Passbook and Google Wallet.
History In 2010, Evernote raised $20 million in funding led by DoCoMo Capital and Morgenthaler Ventures as the service continued to expand its user base.
Microsoft discontinued Nokia Store in 2015, and users were transitioned to Opera Mobile Store as the new application store for legacy Nokia devices.
Applications Social cloud computing has been highlighted as a potential benefit to large-scale computing, video gaming, and media streaming.
The codec could scale up to high definition resolutions of 1920 x 1080 pixels at 24 frames per second.
store had access to applications, tones, videos, graphics, games, and news content from aggregators Nokia Software Market, WidSets, and third-parties like Handango, Jamster and Yahoo!
Samsung Galaxy S8 In April 2017, reports surfaced that the default music player on the then-new Samsung Galaxy S8 would be Google Play Music, continuing a trend that started with the S7 in 2016.
The series was presented by Bravo!FACT and co-produced by marblemedia and the National Film Board of Canada (NFB).
In November 2013 i.TV acquired GetGlue, maker of a leading second screen and social TV check-in platform.
Co-Browsing: the navigation of the Web by several people accessing the same web pages at the same time.
A social bookmarking website is a centralized online service that allows users to store and share Internet bookmarks.
Standard users located in the United States, Canada, and India could also listen to curated radio stations, supported by video and banner advertisements.
a document) its accessibility/visibility within the application (invisible, downloadable, etc.) Workspace-level permissions, refers to the ability to create team spaces with different accessibility/visibility settings.
It was developed in the spirit of the Acid test by the Web Standards Project to test the relevant parts that a mobile browser needs to support.
Bratton, Weiss and Riker initially founded Bratton Technologies as a professional networking platform for law enforcement officials called BlueLine Connect.
The service was developed by a team of students and scientists from the Institute of Knowledge and Data Engineering, the DMIR group at the University of Würzburg and the L3S Learning Lab Lower Saxony in Hannover and is mainly hosted by the University of Kassel.
Despite the advantages of distributed search, it shares several same security concerns as the traditionally centralized case.
In 2013, Financial Times listed AlterGeo among four "Russia's next tech titans", together with Yandex, Ozon and Ecwid, whereas Informilo included it in its "Russia's Top 25 Hottest Tech Companies" list one year earlier.
Grokster: Day 1 - March 30, 2005 MP3 Newswire recap of first day of trial Legally Speaking: Did MGM Really Win the Grokster Case?
F-Droid tries to check the source code and remove issues, but warns that the checking is not exhaustive.
He founded D2L while studying systems design engineering during his third year at the University of Waterloo.
They examine still photos and video footage from publicly available sources, social media sites like Twitter and Parler, video platforms, and other social media and submit that research to the FBI in the form of a tip.
Enterprise social software (also known as or regarded as a major component of Enterprise 2.0), comprises social software as used in "enterprise" (business/commercial) contexts.
History Webcrumbz Ltd, the company running Appticles was founded in London, in 2010 by Alexandra Anghel and Ciprian Borodescu.
Pricing Purchases are made in the Microsoft Points currency, which can also be used to purchase content from Xbox Live and Games for Windows Live marketplaces.
See also List of free and open-source iOS applications List of iOS games List of mobile app distribution platforms References External links Official website
Popularity and growth After its establishment in 2010, Buffer's total revenue per year increased to $1 million in January 2013, and then crossed $2 million in September of the same year through the growth of customers using the application.
In 2023, Unisys was named a Forbes’ Best Employers for Women, Best Employers for Diversity, and one of America’s Best Midsize Employers.
Music on Zune Marketplace was offered by the big four music groups (EMI, Warner Music Group, Sony BMG and Universal Music Group), as well as smaller music labels.
My Obscure Object of Desire: Ann Marie Fleming - In the animated short My Obscure Object of Desire, the heart will go to any lengths to become the object of its love's desire.
In the case study of SmartBlog, a system created to support mobile blogging, key principles were developed after assessing bloggers' needs.
Altos 68000 PicoSpan Amiga Ami-Express – aka "/X", very popular in the crackers/warez software scene.
BreadTube, also called LeftTube, is a loose and informal group of online personalities who create video content, including video essays and livestreams, from socialist, social democratic, communist, anarchist, and other left-wing perspectives.
However heavy server loads caused the system to crash around 9.00am and teaching was unable to continue.
Some sources indicate that right-wing and cyberlibertarian creators frequently take antagonistic stances toward political opponents, while many BreadTubers focus on analyzing and interpreting opposing arguments, sometimes incorporating elements of subversion, humor, or "seduction".
Windows Phone Store was a digital distribution platform developed by Microsoft for the Windows Phone.
On January 20, 2025, the first day of his second presidency, Donald Trump issued a pardon of January 6 United States Capitol attack defendants, granting blanket clemency to everyone charged in connection with the attack.
Alternate business models involve offering free videos in the 'tube' style of websites with advertising funding.
Samsung also held a developer challenge called Free the TV Challenge, which was won by WeDraw in 2010, an application that could draw on mobile and display on the TV screen.
In November, Mobinergy, a mobile device management software company, was acquired; and in December, Unisys acquired CompuGain, an Amazon Web Services Advanced Consulting Partner.
If the camera phone is equipped for Autogeotagging, the blog may be able to show a map of the locations.
(However, not all programming will be shown due to rights restrictions.) In March 2008, the Web site was revamped with changes including the home page and the video player, with a new Catch Up TV section.
Lewis and Fung did a complete rewrite of the code and changed the brand name to Simple Machines Forum (SMF).
Simple Machines Forum (SMF) software is an open-source web application that provides Internet forum and message board services.
In 2013 and 2014, the project became the winner of the "Runet Prize" in the "Popular Vote" category.
ID Trackback is used to inform other users about what a user mentions on their Hatena Diary, and is designed to accelerate interaction between users of the service.
AlterGeo, formerly known as Wi2Geo, is a Russian IT company specializing in the development of a global hybrid positioning system which combines Wi-Fi, WiMAX, GSM, GPS, LTE, IP address and network environment approaches.
Nokia argued customers used the carriers' mobile data to download content, but network operators remained resistant.
In February 2022, Instagram announced that IGTV would be discontinued in March 2022, electing to focus on video functionality in the main app (including Reels).
Eos was launched as a homegrown addition to Cisco’s Consumer portfolio in January 2009 at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES).
Since then, dedicated adult-only app stores like MiKandi and other mobile internet publishers have benefited from this gap in the market instead.
While it is source-available, redistribution and/or distribution of modified components is limited to authorized entities.
Workplace uses machine learning to rank information in a user's news feed and make recommendations, while 'downranking' less relevant information.
Celltick Technologies was an American telecom technology company specializing in emergency population warning systems, cell broadcasting and mass notification platforms.
It also surpassed 2,400 mobile developers worldwide, a 50% increase over its user base in 2016, with the number of third-party app users grew by more than 110%.
Due to U-Report's success in Uganda, UNICEF expanded the program to Zambia in December 2012 and to Nigeria in June 2014.
Answers Social login Social networks Social search Jumper 2.0 Knowledge Plaza Social customer support software Virtual worlds Active Worlds Google Lively (now defunct) Kaneva Second Life There Meez Wikis == References ==
Studies have shown that people are more likely to intervene when they are the only one in a situation.
See also aNobii Douban Goodreads LibraryThing Shelfari References External links BookArmy (website link rerouting to http://www.harpercollins.co.uk/)
B2B function and partnerships AlterGeo's hybrid positioning system allows web and mobile software developers as well as device manufacturers to position their users in order to provide them with location-aware features and collect relevant location-based statistics for marketing issues.
Emerging technologies Emerging technological capabilities to more widely distribute hosting and support much higher bandwidth in real time are bypassing central content arbiters in some cases.
Hatena Keyword Hatena Keywords is Hatena's dictionary service and automatically links to common Hatena services which mention the keyword.
History The company was founded by Ilja Laurs in 2004, who was its Executive Chairman, and Chris Dury, who was the CEO.
Web clipping support is installed by default on the Internet Explorer and Safari browsers when the Evernote software is installed on Windows or macOS.
Independent operating systems are software collections that use their own software distribution, customised user interface (UI), software development kit (SDK) and application programming interface (API) (except billing API which is related only to the application store).
U-Report is a social messaging tool and data collection system developed by UNICEF to improve citizen engagement, inform leaders, and foster positive change.
A researcher suggested the concept of the Semantic Web-interoperability could be useful for argumentative structures on the Web, going beyond the conventional flat structures of discussions and lack of characterizations of their components as implemented in argüman.
Huawei AppGallery — commonly reported HMS / AppGallery figures (220k+ HMS apps; ~580M MAU) are from Huawei / industry reporting in 2022; Huawei's HarmonyOS native app totals (HarmonyOS NEXT) and developer counts have been advanced in Huawei's 2024–2025 messaging (see Harmony Developers report).
See also List of social platforms with at least 100 million active users References External links Official website
Commonly referred to as GCM, Google Cloud Messaging served as C2DM's successor, making improvements to authentication and delivery, new API endpoints and messaging parameters, and the removal of limitations on API send-rates and message sizes.
North America The North American mobile erotica market differs from Europe in that carriers were slow to allow adult sites to use their subscriber payment mechanisms such as SMS, slowing market growth.
Jack Dorsey, the co-founder of Twitter, has endorsed and financially supported the development of Nostr by donating approximately $250,000 worth of Bitcoin to the developers of the project in 2023, as well as a $10 million cash donation to a Nostr development collective in 2025.
Reception Simultaneously with the unveiling of the software, many students and teachers criticized the software.
The platform was created to be self-hosted and currently comes with pretty normal requirements, working with most shared hosting environments around.
Patent-infringement lawsuits Klausner Technologies Inc is a corporation based in Sagaponack, New York, that invented visual voice mail technology in 1994.
HumHub is a free and open-source social network software written on top of the Yii PHP framework that provides an easy-to-use toolkit for creating and launching your own social network.
Malicious software issues On 1 September 2005, the United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team issued an advisory concerning Miniclip: The Retro64 / Miniclip CR64 Loader ActiveX control contains a buffer overflow vulnerability.
Features The availability of music encompasses numerous releases from mainstream artists and extends to any video categorized as music on the YouTube platform.
According to founders of dating apps, including The League, this is because modern dating app algorithms downrank people when left-swiped (passed on), and uprank when right-swiped (approved).
Firebird BBS Firebird BBS is one of two main telnet-based Bulletin board systems developed in Taiwan.
Mobile devices have expanded beyond basic communication and now these devices can support multimedia creation tools.
Lockheed Martin and Unisys paid the government $3.15 million to settle allegations that Unisys inflated the prices of spare parts sold to the U.S.
Microsoft Office Live Communications Server 2003 (LCS), provided many capabilities that were notably absent from the company's earlier Exchange IM solution, including encryption, logging, and standards-based protocols.
While prizes are generally plentifully scattered throughout the map, the upgrades or abilities they award are randomly selected by the zone.
Alongside all documents on Quip is a live updating history of edits made, as well as the ability to highlight portions of a document and add comments, which facilitates collaboration.
Applications Zune Marketplace included an applications section where apps and games could be downloaded for the Zune HD.
Developers can use secret URLs, password protection and limit the number of sales, and add tiered purchases and rewards.
The DPS offers a platform for dialogue and encourages people to connect in a virtual setting to establish relationships that can effect social change.
Grokster on 29 March 2005, and in June 2005, the court unanimously held that Grokster could indeed be sued for infringement for their activities prior to the date of this judgment.
A year later it was redesigned to "catalyze a big increase in traffic, across downloads, users, and total number of apps".
In 2021, YouTube Music introduced a seasonal recap feature, which serves as a culmination of a user's top artists, songs, albums and playlists, in a similar style to Spotify Wrapped.
Knack and Keefer (1997) used indicators of trust and civic norms from the World Values Survey for a sample of 29 market economies.
In March 2018, TapTap was fined for violating games publishing laws in China, among other companies, and shut down its service for 3 months.
Thor Muller explained in an interview with BusinessWeek that the website aims to be simple, noting that most customer-service solutions are too complex.
Per Microsoft lifecycle policies, the RTM version of Windows 8 has been unsupported since January 12, 2016, excluding some Embedded editions, as well its server equivalent, Windows Server 2012.
According to Cafe Bazaar, there are about 120 non-Iranian publishers and developers, with over 800 apps, that offer apps through its platform.
Kids and parents will enjoy reading, watching and playing with Miss Spider and her family of bugs in this brightly colored story and game app." == References ==
Buffer also displays sent post metrics on their free plan and has a "Create" space to store social media post ideas.
On February 20, 2018 Facebook added support for the industry-standard glTF 2.0 file format for Facebook 3D posts.
Dungeon & Fighter: Spirit Dungeon & Fighter: Spirit was the first mobile release of the series released in Korea in 2016.
HUVs are faster than regular cars and have better driving skills, so regular cars can't even approach them.
There is also a sixth drop box, called "Crystal Box", that gives 10 crystals upon collecting it, but they only show up in battles from Recruit to Master Sergeant and in event modes.
Along with Skyscanner and Apptopia, Braze published the Ready for Takeoff 2021 Travel Industry Trends, Insights and Strategies.
Further development In the late 2009 work on a new game - Tanki 2.0 began, however the project was eventually cancelled.
YouMail identifies problematic numbers through its audio fingerprinting technology and analysis of calling patterns, along with direct consumer feedback.
The developers began working on a full-scale MMO action game based on this demo in 2009, which became Tanki Online.
District Judge Phyllis Hamilton, who was presiding over Apple's case against Amazon, said she would "probably" deny Apple's motion to stop Amazon from using the "App Store" name.
Strip Show: Adam & Dave - Adam Brodie and Dave Derewlany's short film about an internet seductress who gets duped into performing out of character, acts before the camera.
YouMail virtual numbers and receptionist YouMail virtual numbers provide a second phone number, for example to separate business calls from personal calls, while keeping cell phones private and protected from unwanted calls.
Internet Public Library – librarian-edited directory, product of a merger with the Librarians' Internet Index (LII) in 2010.
In 2007, Maffia New was published on Rambler.ru as well as Time to Enforce, Real Wars and Steel Giants were launched.
History Samsung and LG were the first to tout new generation mobile phones that would allow users to watch live multi-channel TV on the move during International Broadcasting Convention (IBC) in Amsterdam in September 2005.
References External links Official website marblemedia NFB Collections page for The Art of Seduction
Increased Wi-Fi availability and mobile broadband adoption have changed the way people are going online.
While some marketers attempt to manipulate app stores with black hat strategies, the success of such techniques has become increasingly difficult through the years.
For each sex, there were three accounts using stock photographs, two with actual photographs of volunteers, one with no photos whatsoever, and one that was apparently deactivated.
A few of these companies also offer their own user-generated video sharing website both for commercial purposes and to show off their platform.
The games' expenses are typically funded by sponsors or through donations (which have no effect in the game itself).
WhoSay does not allow consumers to create accounts, nor does it include search features, making it difficult to access a celebrity's account unless a user is directed there from one of their other social pages.
Pamela Samuelson Technical Background of Grokster Decision - Philip Larson's Blog Legal Background of Grokster Decision - Philip Larson's Blog Summary of Supreme Court Decision - Philip Larson's Blog Advanced Peer-Based Technology Business Models.
In May 2013, Amazon introduced Amazon Coins as a form of payment for purchasing apps, games, and in-app purchases from the store.
was introduced to the app, which allows users to answer five questions regarding which historical event of two given events occurred first.
Bradford insists that the League's policies are meant to make the service more egalitarian, not less -- at least when it comes to race.
FirstClass (SoftArc) Hermes Second Sight TeleFinder Microsoft Windows Excalibur BBS Maximus Mystic BBS MS-DOS and compatible Citadel – including DragCit, Cit86, TurboCit, Citadel+ FBB (F6FBB) – packet radio BBS system, still in use.
Drift City (also known as Skid Rush (스키드러쉬) in South Korea) is a massively multiplayer online racing video game developed by NPluto and sponsored by several major automotive companies such as Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep, and U1 Technology.
Nokia Download!, originally Nokia Catalogs, was a mobile application for Nokia devices that allowed access to digitally distributed media content.
In May 2010, the company published Farm Frenzy, in cooperation with an international casual game publisher and distributor Alawar Entertainment.
A number of organizations within the Wikimedia movement including the Wikimedia Foundation publish official mobile apps for mobile access to Wikipedia.
Another reason UNICEF cited for introducing the program in Uganda was the nation's high cellphone use compared to other developing nations, with 48% of the nation's citizens owning a cellphone.
This list of mobile app distribution platforms includes digital distribution platforms, or marketplace 'app stores', intended to provide mobile applications, aka 'apps' to mobile devices.
Nexus Customers can use a specific game's Nexus by purchasing access to licensed content in Demiplane's marketplace.
Several more companies later joined the platform, including Time Warner Cable, Verizon, Comcast, Mozilla, Mogo Money, Microsoft Hohm, AMC Theatres, Qantas, Apple Inc., Dell, and Facebook.
In Aptoide, unlike the Android-default Play Store and iOS-default App Store, there is not a unique and centralized store; instead, each user manages their own store.
Cryptographic proof of ownership techniques allow decentralized networks to minimize the exposure of users' sensitive information.
The Opera Mobile Store then forwards the user to the country-specific store based on the location information provided by the mobile carrier or ISP.
ActivityPub is considered to be an update to the ActivityPump protocol used in pump.io, and the official W3C repository for ActivityPub is identified as a fork of ActivityPump.
In contrast to traditional enterprise software, which imposes structure prior to use, enterprise social software tends to encourage use prior to providing structure.
For information on each mobile platform and its market share, see the mobile operating system and smartphone articles.
CVG's Mike Jackson argued that the bigger screens, which made its unchanged resolution blockier, would probably be less noticeable to the older demographic for which the XL is undoubtedly designed.
Despite this failure, the next day, Ultranet held a promotional event at the Melbourne Convention and Exhibition Centre, at a cost of $1.4 million.
Schools would then have to pay NEC to use Ultranet, or find other ways to access equivalent functions.
In the series, a wave is an electronic communication, often consisting of a video call or video message.
Sinespace is a free-to-play massively multiplayer online Unity 3D-based platform created and published by Sine Wave Entertainment.
Adam Benjamin, for CNET in February 2023, stated that "of the tools we tested, D&D Beyond was far and away the simplest to get started with".
Style Jukebox allowed users to upload their personal music collection from their computer to Style Jukebox servers and listen to them from another compatible device (Android, iOS, Windows, Mac, and Windows Phone) by streaming or downloading songs for offline playback.
From 2008, Sadowski, Wierzejewski, and Wnukiewicz took over management of Grupa Pino, operating a dozen of websites, including a video-sharing site PinoTV, a microblogging platform Moblo.pl, and a slide-hosting site Slajdzik.pl.
A security breach exposed 41 million account records containing name, username, email address, DES-hashed password, gender, date of birth, and other profile info.
Roughly a year later, Quip was launched to the public as a mobile-centric tool for creating shared notes, lists, and documents.
Sports federations and media companies use cloud-based technology to produce professional-quality live streams and video clips for digital audiences.
Another issue was the development of DRM capabilities which helped prevent music piracy and gave mobile music more of a legal status.
Popular MMOs might have hundreds of players online at any given time, usually on company-owned servers.
At its most basic, a digital public square represents an evolution in how people discover, read and share news, information and content.
The Sedition Hunters community has created and deployed a number of advanced tools to help study the January 6 United States Capitol attack.
Argüman is a free and open source software for collective structured argumentation and argument analysis via argumentation graphs or argument maps in which the type of connections can be specified.
The company also developed specific solutions for precise location-based advertising (targeting, retargeting, RTB, etc.) and indoor positioning.
According to the Financial Times, AlterGeo is one of four "Russia's next tech titans".(registration required) The company was named winner and finalist of multiple domestic and international awards in the field of technology and media, and currently is a Skolkovo Innovation Center resident.
On October 23, 2006, the Simple Machines Forum project was split off from Lewis Media for the purpose of "[solidification of] the team’s commitment to continuously providing free software, without the perceived risks of corporate influence".
In 2016, Facebook created a feature called Messenger Day, which allowed users to post videos and pictures with filters for 24 hours only.
The services available on the English hatena.com site are: Hatena Haiku (a micro-blog service similar to Twitter or Jaiku.
Some current stores with the Want Button include: Burlington Coat Factory, Frederick's of Hollywood, Tommy Bahama, The Sharper Image, Acer Computer, Jimmy Jazz, and DermStore.
The majority of crimes in Moon Palace are committed by vehicles, which appear out of nowhere and speed through the city, terrorizing people on the street and paralyzing traffic.
for mobile content, is a mobile portal created for the exhibition of short films and animation series.
In August 2000, Nokia signed a deal with music publisher EMI to provide EMI-owned songs as ringtones, available from the Club Nokia website or by sending an SMS message.
On the other, cellphone technology had focused on the area of imaging, leveraging the user interest in taking pictures and the operator's need to drive data revenues through the use of its network.
Following the purchase of Demiplane, Roll20 began to support cross-platform access so that content unlocked on one platform would be automatically unlocked on the other platform.
Ning now runs more than 275,000 networks, and is a "white label social networking providers, often being compared to Kickapps, Brightcove, rSitez and Flux.
Content could be viewed or purchased on Windows PCs with the Zune software installed, Zune devices, the Xbox 360, Windows Phone phones, or the Microsoft Kin phones.
Syncplicity allows synchronization with other online services including Google Docs, Zoho, and Facebook.
With physical SIM hosting, a SIM is physically hosted in a GSM modem and SMS received by the SIM are relayed to the customer.
In April 2020, Sprinklr became the first advertising partner of TikTok, and expanded the partnership to organic content in May 2022.
Native video is video that is uploaded to or created on social networks and played in-feed, as opposed to links to videos hosted on other sites.
Later, Bratton Technologies became BlueLine Grid and the company launched a new product, also called BlueLine Grid, in May 2014.
Influences on communities Business 'cluster' is “used to represent concentrations of firms that are able to produce synergy because of their geographic proximity and interdependence” (Rosenfeld, 1997).
In 2002, the company successfully executed 100 Text-2-Screen events, marking the inception of this type of campaign within the United States, across multiple professional sporting venues.
They are able to interact with the other users through the tags, and can leave comments of up to 100 double-byte characters in length.
End of development of Google Wave On August 4, 2010, Google announced Wave would no longer be developed as a stand-alone product due to a lack of interest.
See also Collaboration technologies Enterprise portal Intranet portal List of collaborative software List of social bookmarking websites References Lockwood, A.
See also World Health Report Human Development Report The State of the World's Children World Development Report References External links U Report Global Official site
Players can also customize the shape and appearance of their avatar and buy avatars from third-party developers such as Daz 3D.
In 2009, Cengage announced it would use video from ShadowTV's seven-year archive to supplement its current archive of news broadcasts.
Promotional material promised consumers that, through the service: “The future of banking is in your hands”.
Products and services Brightspace Brightspace is a cloud-based learning management system (LMS) developed by D2L for use in K-12, higher education, and corporate training environments.
The SiteBar bookmark server is open source software published under the GPL, which enables anybody to run their own SiteBar server and keep their bookmarks under their control.
Proceedings of the International Conference on Information Systems and Design of Communication - ISDOC '14.
Only people that users are connected to and other verified public employees can view profile information, which does not contain personal contact information.
See also Hybrid positioning system Wi-Fi positioning system Location-based advertising Local positioning systems Mobile phone tracking References External links AlterGeo technology - official website (English, Russian)
A list of file sharing programs for use on computers running Linux, BSD or other Unix-like operating systems, categorised according to the different filesharing networks or protocols they access.
It has been revealed that 80% of the 1000 apps on the HarmonyOS platform have completed landscape screen transition.
Decentralized networks using protocols such as DSNP can implicitly help to enable increased user anonymity, thus enhancing a user's security and privacy.
The program sends SMS polls and alerts to its participants, collecting real-time responses, and subsequently publishes gathered data.
Relays have been criticized as being the most centralized component in the protocol's design, given their near-indispensable role in the network and a lack of clear incentives for running a relay.
In June 2010, about 300,000 software developers added apps to GetJar resulting in over one billion downloads.
The website may also interface with other kinds of services, such as citation management software and social networking sites.
Sessions focused on decentralized social networking, identity portability, and interoperability across applications.
UPnP AV media servers provide a service to UPnP AV client devices, so-called control points, for browsing the media content of the server and requesting the media server to deliver a file to the control point for playback.
The following year, Google acknowledged that about five percent of visits to its own websites had been altered by extensions with adware.
These technologies allow Guide to turn articles into news program-style episodes, incorporating video or images from the original source, while the text content of the article or blog post is read aloud by a virtual news anchor.
Web annotation can be used for the following purposes: to rate a Web resource, such as by its usefulness, user-friendliness, suitability for viewing by minors.
Features and restrictions Online Music Storage The online music storage provided native support for Mp3, M4a, and Ogg formats.
Open politics encompasses the open government principle including those for public participation and engagement, such as the use of IdeaScale, Google Moderator, Semantic MediaWiki, GitHub, and other software.
Windows Phone Store grew swiftly since its launch, and by February 2012, it had outgrown BlackBerry App World with 70,000 apps available (a milestone that BlackBerry App World passed in March 2012).
The FBI has relied on groups like the Sedition Hunters due to the large number of suspects, estimated at 2,000.
Some users noted the new app was much slower than the previous Windows and iOS versions, had many features removed, and did not work with some default keyboard layouts, including Turkish, Latvian, and Polish, due to a conflict of hardcoded key bindings.
The company launched Braze Alloys in 2018, a network of over 45 integration applications with companies like Segment, mParticle, and Amplitude.
Other websites include more complex web content voting systems; for example, five stars or reaction buttons to show a wider range of emotion to the content.
These include patents filed in 1998 relating to Van der Meer's fledgling social network Surfbook, including, according to legal papers filed by the patent holder, the ability for users to approve data using a "like" button.
In 2020, California State University used Unisys’ CloudForte and Managed Security Services to integrate its hybrid-cloud environment.
The goal was to deliver better, more relevant and personalized search results with this integration.
Webist (Selected Papers) 2010: 85-100 External links W3C Web Annotation Working Group Recommendations (as of February 23, 2017): Web Annotation Data Model Web Annotation Vocabulary Web Annotation Protocol Web Annotation Architecture, W3C's interactive illustration
In August 2024, Evernote further reduced its free plan to allow only one connected device at a time, with a maximum of two "desyncs" per month.
PlayNow was Sony Ericsson's download service for media that included music, games, ringtones, wallpapers and themes.
The company, Diino Systems AB, was founded 2004 and was based Stockholm, Sweden, with sales offices in Atlanta, London, and Mexico City.
Events TapTap Presents TapTap Presents is a Live Show, hosted by TapTap, that first streamed on July 10, 2020, unveiling game-related updates and upcoming mobile games, including Genshin Impact and Torchlight: Infinite.
Around the same time, a developer named Mikael Nordfeldth forked StatusNet with the intention of maintaining it as a personal project, dubbing it "Free Social".
Extension programming interface Google Wave is extensible through an application programming interface (API).
Starting with the 2.0 release the software is available under the BSD license, resolving the concerns.
See also List of social bookmarking websites AddThis AddToAny References Burkitt, Laurie (2010-02-22).
In 2003, it launched Handango InHand, a mobile app store that enabled users to discover, purchase, and install software directly on their mobile devices.
MITRE improved on that model by hosting the collaborative session on a server into which each user logged.
[...] We want the best answers to rise to the top, and not get buried in online discussion forums.” The service initially offered paid service plans to companies including Method Products, Timbuk2, Twitter, and Digg.
Department of Defense, Pearson Education, Virgin Group, the Smithsonian, the University of Edinburgh, Michigan State University, and other organizations.
Many BreadTube content creators are crowdfunded, and their channels often serve as introductions to left-wing politics for young viewers.
Advanced analytics Independent reviews describe Brand24 as a social listening and media monitoring platform that provides analytics for interpreting online mentions, including sentiment and other insight features.
As of the latest version, debates are presented in their entirety as a large tree which may be harder to navigate than other formats – for instance, trees "can become extremely dense, and the interface does not make it obvious which arguments the user should pay attention to".
The application allows users to be able to find local public employees by area, agency, and proximity to connect, communicate, or collaborate.
Services Wadja services include: an API that allows developers to access Wadja's product and offer them to their audience Security Wadja.com enables its members to restrict who has access to their profile and data and choose what information they want to appear on their profile.
This in turn leads to more options, greater economies of scale, while bearing additional advantages for hosting data and computing services closer to the edge where they may be needed most.
Criticism Fake "likes" The number of "likes" on Facebook can serve as a measurement of interest and/or popularity in a particular brand, product or personality, though there have also been reports of the "overblown importance" of likes.
According to Mohammad Mehdi Nooripour, chairman of the Student Organization Assembly, Shad software has about 800,000 daily visits.
The Profile tab displays the user's profile, showing how many N-Gage points the user scored scored, their reputation level (ranging between 1-5 stars), the number of friends they have, and their avatar/picture.
History The AT Protocol began development by Bluesky Social PBC, a public benefit corporation originally created as an independent research group within Twitter, Inc.
In 2012, the service was later taken over by Swiss Picture Bank with the intention to continue to run the service as before but now via the new Swedish company, New Diino AB.
In July 2023, Bluesky experienced a controversy after users discovered the social app did not prevent users from using racial slurs within their handles, and had removed discriminatory slurs from the platform's list of flagged words.
The new feature allows paying members to create and save groups of hashtags directly within the Buffer composer.
In 1935, he wrote an article called "The Place of Social Sciences in Modern Education," in which he wrote about the nature of an effective education in the social sciences to reach effective education by the willing masses.
(This list is limited to services that have their own Wikipedia article.) Free blog hosting services See also Comparison of file hosting services Comparison of online backup services == References ==
In Hawaii in 2019, Puna Precious Plastic, with more than 1,000 members as a part of the Precious Plastic worldwide movement, collected about 1,000 pounds, which it planned to sort, shred and melt into plastic bricks and lumber for construction.
The Unit conducts a number of activities that promote engagement with Science and Technology in Belize, including through the ICT roadshow.
Ministers Subordinate organizations Turkmengaz Türkmennebit (Turkmenoil) Türkmenhimiýa Türkmengeologiýa Türkmennebitgazgurluşyk Turkmenbashy Oil Refinery == References ==
The Minister in charge of the MNRE (Ministry of New and Renewable energy) is the patron while the Secretary of MNRE is the ex-officio president of the association.
We can't continue to use oil and gas for 75 percent of our consumption when they make up seven percent of our domestic reserves.
Other contributions include "Defeating the Fossil Fuel Industry" in Not Too Late: Changing the Climate Story from Despair to Possibility (2023), and "Spill" in Fueling Culture: Energy, History, Politics (2017).
Clean Tech Law contemplates a diverse set of legal and policy issues related to the development and commercialization of clean technology.
It took charge of coal production, allocation of supplies of fuels, control of energy prices and petrol rationing during World War II.
The report described how the United Kingdom planned to achieve its legally binding target of 15 per cent share of energy from renewable sources by 2020.
The Executive Bureau assists the Council of Ministers by meet at least three times a year to review the budget, approve staff regulations, and develops an agenda for the Council of Ministers depending on their analyses of the organizations activities.
The first streamlined car was the Tropfenwagen introduced in 1921, named after its teardrop shape (the literal translation from German is "drop car").
While RECS guaranteed the source of the energy and prevented double-counting, it was not a label: these also guarantee other matters relating to the supplied electricity, such as the originating technology, the age of the plant, and the source of the energy.
NISOC is producing about 83% percent of all crude oil and 16% percent of natural gas produced in Iran.
Fears of an uprising led the Bolivian government to take measures essentially forcing the population to vote (announcing fines and other penalties for those who refused or boycotted) and warned that protesters against the referendum would be imprisoned.
Students at colleges where green buildings are being used will benefit by increasing their potential to gain knowledge.
Growth in open energy modelling Just two active open energy modelling projects were cited in a 2011 paper: OSeMOSYS and TEMOA.
Economic and energy modelling can be used by governmental or inter-governmental bodies as an advisory and analysis tool.
With the breakup of the USSR, Russia has lost access to the rich Caspian Basin off-shore and on-shore oil fields in the Central Asian states and Azerbaijan.
RECS International was founded in Brussels in 2002 and is a non-profit-making European association of market players trading in renewable energy certificates.
The first three days of the disruption cost the Zimbabwe's economy an estimated $17 million as the government extended its disruption to a full shutdown to prevent the use of VPN circumvention tools by demonstrators.
In fact, the process contributed to the growth of the Eurodollar market as a less-regulated rival to U.S.
At that time, Turntide also announced investment from Future Shape, the fund led by Nest founder Tony Fadell.
Since 1992 every year in March experts and decision makers from all over the world flock to Upper Austria to attend the events - in general the conference attracts between 900 and 1,000 participants from 55-60 countries.
Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) and the European Green Deal, which incentivize renewable energy adoption while reducing fossil fuel dependence.
It is built by the Department of Energy in the United States and maintained by the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.
In parallel to the World Sustainable Energy Days, the Energiesparmesse, an exhibition and trade show dedicated to renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, is held.
Energy sources Technical solutions under consideration include the further development of domestically grown biofuels, solar cells, fuel cells, wind farms, wave energy, a major increase in district heating schemes and greater use of geothermal heat pumps.
Under NMSA, the Cabinet Committee on Economic affairs released the restructured "National Bamboo Mission" in 2018 to last till the end of 14th Five Year Plan period.
This switch from kerosene use would lead to reduction in global carbon emissions leading to the firm earning carbon credits.
It also took over responsibility for electricity from the Ministry of War Transport and its predecessor the Ministry of Transport.
The main target of the One Less Nuclear Power Plant was to cut energy consumption by 2 million TOE, which is equivalent to the capacity of one nuclear power plant, mainly by directly engaging citizens in energy-saving and renewable energy generation.
This effort resulted in more powerful simulation engines released in the early 1970s, among those were BLAST, DOE-2, ESP-r, HVACSIM+ and TRNSYS.
A narrower pipe in the roof that fits snugly into a larger segment of the building can also be used.
It shares that responsibility with the Ministry of Business Affairs (responsible for banking and trade) and the Ministry of Fisheries (fishing making up some 40% of Iceland's exports).
Destruction of unsold goods: The EU's Ecodesign for Sustainable Products Regulation (ESPR) includes a ban on the destruction of unsold textiles and footwear, effectively prohibiting the common fashion industry practice of burning or landfilling excess synthetic inventory.
Due to improvements in recent years, Georgia has become a major exporter of electricity in the region, exporting 1.3 billion KWh in 2010.
Due to the large variety of hemp, the porosity differs from one type to another, therefore its thermal insulating abilities vary too.
2019: "Accelerating Energy Transformation" The 12th edition of Singapore International Energy Week (SIEW) took place from 29 October to 1 November 2019 at the Sands Expo and Convention Centre, Marina Bay Sands Singapore.
Desert climates have the highest radiative cooling potential due to low year-round humidity and cloud cover, while tropical climates have less potential due to higher humidity and cloud cover.
The Expo featured five pavilions, showcasing clean energy solutions from Australia, Brazil, Europe, Japan and Singapore.
United States leadership is widely seen as critical in international emissions reduction efforts, and particularly in carbon pricing, as this would encourage other countries to follow suit with similar legislation.
It is also accredited to a range of regional bodies that include OSPAR, the Helsinki Commission and the Barcelona Convention, and provides a conduit for advocacy and debate between the upstream industry and the European Union (EU).
The current interim mines and energy minister is president Frans Kapofi, after Natangwe Ithete was dismissed on 26 October 2026.
In Mexico, the Secretariat of Energy (Spanish: Secretaría de Energia) is the government department in charge of production and regulation of energy.
In 1939 the Petroleum Board assumed responsibility for the coordination of the petroleum 'pool' for oil supplies (except oil for the Royal Navy).
It organizes and supervises the material and technical supply of enterprises, organizations, and installations.
Responsibilities The ministry is responsible for designing and implementing government policy in the areas falling within its competence.
In contrast with standby mode, hibernation mode saves the computer's state on the hard disk, which requires no power to maintain, whereas standby mode saves the computer's state in RAM, which requires a small amount of power to maintain.
Monitoring Monitoring information of energy use, in order to establish a basis for energy management and explain deviations from an established pattern.
From 15 February 2022 the "Clean Export Guarantee (CEG) Tariff" was introduced as a part of the government's Micro-generation Support Scheme (MSS).
Turntide won a 2020 Gold Edison Award and 2020 Product of the Year from Environmental and Energy Leader.
Pickering was reportedly high on the list, but he withdrew himself from consideration in early 2008.
In 2005, the effort was renamed JODI, joined by the International Energy Forum (IEF), and covered more than 90% of the global oil market.
Municipal and electric cooperative utilities can elect to operate their own Commitment to Community programs.
Another factor improving airflow is the gap between the tractor and trailer is minimized to lessen the amount of turbulence created by air flowing into the gap.
Sectoral work is led by different task groups that design and implement technical work programmes on a range of energy efficiency topics, with the input and support of international organisations, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and private sector partners.
Development In 2005, Fidel Castro announced that Cuba would undertake an Energy Revolution, through which it would decentralize physical energy infrastructure and decarbonize its economy by over one-third.
In 2003, CEER was formally established as a non-profit organization under Belgian law, with its own Brussels-based Secretariat.
The plan provides a detailed road map of how the member state expects to reach its legally binding 2020 target for the share of renewable energy in their total energy consumption, as required by article 4 of the Renewable Energy Directive 2009/28/EC.
As of April 2014, the CVRP was facing an estimated US$30 million funding shortfall for the 2013-14 fiscal year, and uncertainty about additional funding for the 2014-15 fiscal year.
The Group of Five, precursors to the G8, first met in 1975 to coordinate economic and energy policies in the wake of the 1973 Arab oil embargo, a rise in inflation and a global economic slowdown.
The study analyses each national action plan and estimates whether the projected savings are likely to materialise and whether these will be sufficient to meet the article 7 target.
Energy Efficiency: Design includes a 40 KW rooftop photovoltaic system, natural ventilation linked with a window interlock system for heating, daylighting controls, energy-efficient lighting, high efficiency boiler, and chiller integrated into a virtual chilled water loop.
Its key objective is to promote the independence of national regulators and support the establishment of a robust East African energy union.
This construction technique saves weight without compromising the structural integrity of the vehicle.
Intel DPST technology aims to adaptively reduce backlight brightness while maintaining satisfactory visual performance.
To maximize the benefits, the program targets land that has both a high chance of restoration success and a history of low crop yields or crop failure.
While on one hand the officers are unwilling to give out details, on the other hand the budget heads and schemes are seeing constant changes which makes tracking very difficult.
It is responsible for managing the energy sector in Thailand, including granting energy operating licenses and issuing energy pricing regulations.
This is compared to 37% in both the United States and China when asked to list their priorities on energy.
For example, the government proposed to make it mandatory for certain appliances in India to have ratings by the BEE from January 2010 onwards.
The constraints are occasioned by poor infrastructure and robust policies to attract investment in the sector.
One of the agencies with which the ministry works is Petromin, the general petroleum and mineral organization.
Background It was launched in 2011, with Obama Administration's Startup America Initiative, a White House campaign to inspire and promote entrepreneurship.
In 2019, the Minister inaugurated the launching ceremony of the Saudi scientific vessel, called “Najil” in Jubail port, Eastern Province.
History The concept of a systematic producer-consumer dialogue emerged in the 1970s as a part of the general reorganisation in the global political and economic order with energy markets transforming the structure within individual countries as well as power balances and relations between countries.
In a FIP, renewable energy producers sell to the electricity market and receive a payment (premium) in addition to the market price.
In 2016 Water Development was transferred to the new Ministry of Water Development, Sanitation and Environmental Protection.
Major initiatives and legislation China China has pledged to become carbon neutral by 2060, which would need a just transition for over 3 million workers in the coal-mining and power industry.
The document provides a comprehensive account of the data issues faced by researchers engaged in open energy system modelling and energy market analysis and quoted extensively from a German legal opinion.
He has delivered lectures to audiences at the Pentagon, the United Nations, the Smithsonian, the Commonwealth Club of San Francisco, and several World Affairs Councils, as well as dozens of universities and colleges around the United States.
Sharing the stage for the first time were the CEOs of Royal Dutch Shell and Petrobras, Peter Voser and José Gabrielli respectively, as they discuss the future of the global energy industry.
The initial period 2002–2004 saw delays in project implementation; consequently, the project was essentially restarted with a new project team in 2005 and was operational until the end of 2009.
History Its establishment was agreed at the first South American Energy Summit, which took place on April 16–17 2007 on Isla Margarita in the Venezuelan state of Nueva Esparta.
Government reserves in 2016 as of 2016, the Chinese SPR was estimated to hold approximately 400 million barrels in total, out of a capacity of around 500 million barrels.
The standards stipulated in the Code, which was published in February 2012 are more stringent than those in the last version promulgated in 2007, which have been implemented on a voluntary basis.
Climate change threatens the basic elements of life for people around the world – access to water, food production, health, use of land and the environment.
This follow-up must be in addition to, and not instead of, the follow-up which the industry carries out for its own part.
The agreement would have established the International Petroleum Commission for the purposes of balancing discordant supply and demand, managing surplus, and bringing order and stability to a market laden with oversupply, similar to the Texas Railroad Commission in the United States.
See also Global strategic petroleum reserves List of uranium mines Nuclear power Strategic Petroleum Reserve Uranium reserves == References ==
5057 External Power Supplies - the Department of Energy's Building Technologies Office's page on Appliance standards This article incorporates public domain material from websites or documents of the United States government.
This means that supply voltage can theoretically be anywhere between 216 V and 253 V depending on local conditions.
Almost every utility-scale solar facility has what is known as a power purchase agreement with the utility.
In 2012 the Ministry of Water and Energy was merged with the Ministry of Mines to form the Ministry of Mines, Energy and Water Development.
More conservative Islamic cultural practices (separation of the sexes, wearing of the hijab or a more complete hijab) brought back (to other Muslim states, such as Egypt, Pakistan, Bangladesh, etc.) from Gulf oil states by migrant workers.
Coordination among the institutions, and enterprises of the ministry, and work to resolve all differences.
Another motive for the bill was to legally and financially bind the operator and the government to provide relief to the affected population in the case of a nuclear accident.
For this reason, the Hypermiling Safety Foundation was established in August 2008 to promote a safety and education program that promotes legal fuel-saving techniques.
Clause 17 This clause deals with the legal binding of the culpable groups in case of a nuclear accident.
The deployment of renewable technologies usually increases the diversity of electricity sources and, through local generation, contributes to the flexibility of the system and its resistance to central shocks.
See also Chiefs of Clan Cameron Rutherford House, home of the first Premier of Alberta, Alexander Cameron Rutherford, from 1911 to 1941, which was originally called Achnacarry in honour of his family roots.
Philippines: Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) is an independent, quasi-judicial regulatory body established to regulate electric power service in the Philippines.
The maker disputed claims that the device has no effect, and proposed changes to the Consumer Reports testing procedure, which when implemented made no difference to the results.
2024 - Best Educational Documentary Award at the International Uranium Film Festival in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
In the middle east, oil fields have become main targets for sabotage due to how heavily countries rely on oil.
A second Ministerial Conference following up the Energy Initiative was held in Astana, Kazakhstan on 30 November 2006.
The Intel DPST subsystem analyzes the image to be displayed and it uses a set of algorithms to change the chroma value of pixels while reducing the brightness of backlight simultaneously such that there is minimum perceived visual degradation.
The primary objective of a state nodal agency under this ministry is to develop, coordinate, finance and promote research projects in the new and renewable energy field.
is incompatible with the strategy of engagement with industry to solve problems that is at the heart of today's plan." The following day, Fossil Free MIT began a sit-in outside the office of the President to protest the shortcomings of the plan, including the rejection of divestment.
Another remarked that the Saudis can produce oil at as low a price as $3 per barrel, whereas Russia needs $30 per barrel to cover production costs.
It was signed by the 10 ASEAN members (Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, Burma and Cambodia), as well as China, Japan, New Zealand, India, South Korea and Australia.
The department was established in January 1974, when the responsibility for energy production was transferred away from the Department of Trade and Industry in the wake of the 1973 oil crisis and with the importance of North Sea oil increasing.
History Since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, fossil fuels have been used as sources of energy.
History The ministerial portfolio responsible for energy, mining and the environment has undergone several reorganizations following successive government reshuffles.
The Swiss road tax is a yearly recurring fixed amount calculated based on the specifications of the tax payers car.
Based on years of close archival work, in both Iran and the United States, the book was originally more than 1,300 pages in its first draft but had to be cut by more than half to suit commercial publishing imperatives.
At a minimum, the Commission should investigate the types of serious allegations presented here by the complainant and render a decision based on the substantive merits.
This in turn increased total coal consumption, even as the amount of coal required for any particular application fell.
However, if the power supply was interrupted, such as when removing batteries without an AC power connection, the Mac would wake from Safe Sleep instead, restoring memory contents from the hard drive.
On October 1, 1990, at the United Nations General Assembly, Venezuelan President Carlos Andrés Pérez called for an urgent meeting of producers and consumers under the auspices of the United Nations to help the world face the growing uncertainties and politics of the oil market.
Following the privatisation of the energy industries in the United Kingdom, which had begun some ten years earlier, the department was abolished in 1992.
History The predecessor of the Ministry of Climate and Energy, the Ministry of Energy (Danish: Energiministeriet), was created in 1979, from the energy department of the Ministry of Trade.
The team remains advised by Richard Whelove, alongside Michael Devaney of the Electrical Engineering Department.
In 1940, the department was divided with Geoffrey Lloyd and Sir Alfred Faulkner becoming respectively Secretary and Permanent Under-Secretary for Petroleum and David Grenfell and Sir Alfred Hurst respectively Secretary and Permanent Under-Secretary for Mines.
Necessity of the Nuclear Liability Act India had an ambitious goal to increase 5-fold the amount of electricity produced from nuclear power plants to 20,000 MWe by 2020.
Data center infrastructure efficiency (DCIE), is a performance improvement metric used to calculate the energy efficiency of a data center.
Structural change of oil-producing countries The Third World went through dramatic structural change in the decades after oil was first discovered.
BEA was granted full autonomy by the Royal Government of Bhutan to regulate the electricity supply industry of Bhutan.
Green award for emissions-reducing technology, Sustainable Shipping News, October 28, 2008 World Fishing
A part of the team works in Budapest (HU), Offenburg (DE), Freiburg im Breisgau (DE) and Paris (FR).
Revenue volatility Prices for some natural resources are subject to wide fluctuation; for example, crude oil prices rose from around $3 per barrel to $12/bbl in 1974 following the 1973 oil crisis and fell from $27/bbl to below $10/bbl during the 1986 glut.
Legislation The Energy Act 2010 is subdivided into four parts: carbon capture storage and regulation, schemes for reducing fuel poverty, regulations of gas and electricity markets, and final provisions.
Solar Cooling for the Sunbelt Regions (Task 65), New Generation Solar Cooling and Heating Systems (PV or Solar Thermally Driven Systems (Task 53), Quality Assurance and Support Measures for Solar Cooling (Task 48), Solar Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration (Task 38) solar buildings/architecture, e.g.
The Ministry of Energy of the Kingdom of Thailand (Abrv: MoE; Thai: กระทรวงพลังงาน, RTGS: Krasuang Phalangngan) is a cabinet ministry in the Government of Thailand.
The website offered an online glossary covering about 4,000 terms from the clean energy and climate sector, with definitions from Open Data sources.
Employment The renewable energy transition can create jobs through the construction of new power plants and the manufacturing of the equipment that they need, as was seen in the case of Germany and the wind power industry.
FERC, which involved a petition for review of FERC Order 490 to permit Williams Natural Gas Company to unconditionally abandon its certified obligation to purchase gas from Transwestern.
Though unrefined petroleum has been used for various purposes since ancient times, it was during the 19th century that refinement techniques were developed and gasoline engines were created.
This efficiency translates into substantial cuts in CO₂ emissions, making CHP a powerful tool in the transition to a low-carbon energy system.
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency is an agency of the Government of India, under the Ministry of Power, created in March 2002 under the provisions of the nation's 2001 Energy Conservation Act.
Of these, biomass (non-bagasse) Cogeneration consisted of 651.91 MW, Bio mass Gasifier was 186.88 MW Waste to energy was 163.35 MW, SPV Systems (of less than 1 Kilowatt (kW)) capacity was 405.54 1 MW, and the rest from micro-Hydro and Wind power.
It takes measures to increase labor productivity, to improve the quality of production, and to reduce the cost of production and construction.
History It was established on April 23, 1993 under the name of the Ministry of Oil and Gas of Turkmenistan.
While Miliband received questions over grid access, gas storage, and the Government's support of the European "super-grid," the Bill was passed to the committee stage.
In government contracting, a Contract Adjustment Board is a department board at the Secretariat level in the U.S.
History On December 7, 1946, the Secretaría de Bienes Nacionales e Inspección Administrativa (Secretariat of National Assets and Administrative Inspection) was created with Alfonso Caso Andrade serving as secretary.
The EREA works closely with the EAC, African Union Eastern Africa Power Pool (EAPP)-Independent Regulatory Board (IRB), National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners and The Regional Association of Energy Regulators for Eastern and Southern Africa (RAERESA).
Organisation MMERE consists of the following divisions: Technical Divisions: Mines Geological Survey Petroleum Energy Water Resources Management Administrative Divisions: Executive Corporate Services == References ==
Lighting When lighting loads are in use for a high proportion of the time, energy savings on lighting equipment are extremely valuable.
Other benefits generally include increased resource efficiency, improved production budgeting and reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
Conference chair is Chuck Kutscher, Ph.D., a principal engineer at the National Renewable Energy Lab.
Until the solar heating system began working, ATCO Gas (an Alberta-based natural gas distribution company) fixed heating costs at $60 per month for the homeowners at the Drake Landing Solar Community.
The Gulf War revealed the importance of a concerted and coordinated global response to an adverse supply shock.
The result is a vehicle with about a 50 km (30 miles) range, which, when designed with appropriate weight distribution (40/60 front to rear), does not require power steering, offers exceptional acceleration in the lower end of its operating range, and is freeway capable and legal.
electric grid would have to be nationalized, and more high voltage transmission lines would have to be built.
The Gulf Oil Company showed an interest but was constrained by the Red Line Agreement which prevented the company from drilling on Bahrain without the consent of their partners in the Iraq Petroleum Company (IPC).
Devon and Cornwall Police also released a statement saying that protests on the M5 were taken in a "safe and legal manner".
Reserve structure Government reserves in 2025 As of March 2025, the government is estimated to have 401 million barrels stored in above-ground facilities and 668 million barrels in above-ground commercial storage.
The speech is remembered for his comparison of the 1970s energy crisis with the "moral equivalent of war." Carter gave ten principles for the plan but did not list specific actions.
On 15 January, internet monitoring group NetBlocks reported the blocking of over a dozen social media and messaging platforms in Zimbabwe including WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram followed by total internet blackouts.
Even more controversially, several oil exporters have been major financial supporters of armed groups challenging the governments of other countries.
Consumption per capita The final consumption divided by the number of inhabitants provides a country's consumption per capita.
Background Voltage optimisation is an electrical energy saving technique which is mainly installed in series with the mains electricity supply to provide a reduced supply voltage for the site's equipment.
Evaluation and econometric methods are the two approaches generally employed in estimating the size of this effect.
In 2017 the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) issued a position paper calling for free software and open standards to be central to European science funding, including the flagship EU program Horizon 2020.
The membership of the collegium was approved by the Council of Ministers USSR, upon recommendation of the Minister of the Petroleum Industry.
This is because of the high level of variance in the fuel consumption of a vehicle under normal driving conditions.
40) United States The Natural Gas Act of 1938 See also List of short titles Energy Law Electric or Electricity Act Petroleum Act
Nature and Environment Prize 2008 goes to Iceland, norden.org, October 10, 2008 Wilson-Roberts, Guy.
macOS On Macs, a feature known as Safe Sleep saves the contents of volatile memory to the system hard disk each time the Mac enters Sleep mode.
This model is now the principal tool used to generate detailed sector-by-sector and region-by-region long-term scenarios for the World Energy Outlook and other IEA publications.
Manufacturers of specified electronic devices are obligated to attach a CEL label to their goods to inform China-based consumers of the product's energy efficiency.
In February 2008, responding to questions on the issue at a briefing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice reaffirmed that the State Department was looking to appoint a special energy coordinator for the Central Asian and Caspian region.
In 2023, the city of Leuven (BE) took over the Presidency of the association, succeeding Heidelberg (DE), which held the presidency from 2017 to 2023.
UK - Norway), electricity from hydropower is likely to be insufficient and development of a hydrogen economy would likely be needed: this is being trialled in the UK and 8 TWh of inter-seasonal hydrogen energy storage has been proposed.
Today, it is the industry’s largest database of safety performance, covering participating member company employees and their contractors onshore and offshore, worldwide.
Organization Objectives CEER seeks to facilitate the creation of a single, competitive, efficient and sustainable market for gas and electricity in Europe.
Devolution Some responsibilities extend to England alone due to devolution, while others are reserved or excepted matters that therefore apply to the other countries of the United Kingdom as well.
For example, a more efficient steam engine allowed the cheaper transport of goods and people that contributed to the Industrial Revolution.
The Ministry of Mines, Energy and Rural Electrification (MMERE) is one of the ministries of the Solomon Islands Government.
The 2007 amendments directed the Colorado Public Utility Commission (PUC) to revise or clarify its existing RPS rules on or before October 1, 2007.
The factory closings were made more palatable by a labor shortage in much of China making it easier for workers to find other jobs.
Overseeing the production, supply distribution, marketing and pricing of petroleum including natural gas and petroleum products.
A car rated at 32 mpg‑US (7.4 L/100 km; 38 mpg‑imp) was returning 75 mpg‑US (3.1 L/100 km; 90 mpg‑imp) with the 60 hp engine replaced by a 16 hp engine.
These projections are covered by a caveat on economic and physical influences beyond the control of the government.
Table of renewable energy and targets Overview European countries Other countries See also REN21 Collaboration on Energy and Environmental Markets Greenhouse Mafia Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy List of renewable energy topics by country and territory == References ==
The Fuel Doctor FD-47, for example, plugs into the vehicle's cigarette lighter and displays several LEDs.
Cuba restructured it social worker program to include specialized work fronts for the Energy Revolution.
Borehole thermal energy system The borehole thermal energy system (BTES) is located underground to store large quantities of heat collected in the summer to be used in the winter.
The new standard was supported by Natural Resources Canada (NRCan) and the Canadian Home Builders' Association (CHBA).
See also Climate change litigation Climate justice Just transition Fossil fuel divestment List of environmental lawsuits Climate change in the United States Steve Held, father of lead plaintiff Rikki Held Notes References External links "The Constitution of the State of Montana" (PDF).
The government stated that government property and property owned by the ruling ZANU-PF party was damaged in the attacks and blamed MDC-T supporters.
This has abandoned the code's schematic which provided a framework of achievement levels and to which low-energy designers could aspire to meet or surpass.
It hosts events centred on sustainable energy production and use, which covers energy efficiency and renewable energy sources for buildings, industry and transport.
China is currently the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases, and coal in China is a major cause of global warming.
That marks the first time in the nation that a municipal government has imposed an energy tax directly upon its residents to combat global warming.
For example, a reserve such as the Ogallala Aquifer can be mined at a rate that far exceeds replenishment.
Shifting to renewable energy "can help us to meet the dual goals of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, thereby limiting future extreme weather and climate impacts, and ensuring reliable, timely, and cost-efficient delivery of energy".
A more effective DIY radiator reflector is a thin insulating layer (against conduction) of a lightweight insulator such as expanded polystyrene foam veneer or 3mm polyethylene foam, as used for laminate flooring underlay.
The house did not require a furnace, despite prairie winter temperatures as low as −24 °C (−11 °F) at night.
To give purchasers reliable information, he introduced the Automobile Information Disclosure Act of 1958.
New Scientist's Fred Pearce panned the book, calling it "mendacious and frequently anti-scientific", remarking that it "combines hysterical opposition to all things nuclear with an equally deranged climate-change denialism".
The Ministry of Energy of Georgia (Georgian: საქართველოს ენერგეტიკის სამინისტრო, sakartvelos energetikis saministro) was a governmental agency within the Cabinet of Georgia in charge of regulating the activities in the energy sector of Georgia from 1991 to 2017.
Getting "BTU'd" became Beltway slang at the time for those who lost reelection by voting for the controversial proposal.
Before drafting this treaty, the Council coordinated the creation of an energy balance and a 15-point strategy.
Procedural history The EPS Service Parts Act of 2014 is a bill that was introduced into the United States House of Representatives on July 10, 2014, by Rep.
In 2006, some electronics, such as microwaves, CRTs, and VHS players, used more standby power than appliances manufactured in the previous five years.
It is typically advised to use Type S mortar, grout with a minimum strength of 2,000 psi (14 MPa), and a concrete slab with a minimum strength of 2,500 psi (17 MPa) and 4 inches (100 mm) thickness.
Microsoft also recommends that the size be increased using the powercfg.exe tool in some rare workloads where the memory footprint exceeds that amount.
See also Energy accounting Energy conservation measure Energy management Energy management software, software to monitor and optimize energy consumption in buildings or communities == References ==
It was created on January 27, 1987, in Lagos, Nigeria, to serve as a platform for cooperation and harmonization of efforts, collaboration, sharing of knowledge and skills among African oil producing countries.
Most of the new standards are comparable to those adopted in the US, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, while some standards are not specified in overseas jurisdictions.
(In the original official report, exhausted votes were not recorded as a separate total but instead resided with candidate that last had the votes.
Together with a group of colleagues, the Lovinses fostered efficient resource use and policy development that they believed would promote global security.
100% clean electricity Other electricity generating sources are considered clean, though not necessarily renewable, as they also do not emit carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases and air pollutants.
Department of Energy Solar Decathlon Solar Decathlon Europe 2019 Solar Decathlon Europe 2014 Solar Decathlon Latin America and Caribbean Solar Decathlon Middle East Solar Decathlon China
45 6/30/2001 so as to become its terms of reference are the following: Supervision of the institutions and enterprises of the ministry.
In June 2018, the Narendra Modi administration approved the construction of a new storage facility in Chandikhole and doubling the capacity at Padur.
China In southern China (south of the Qinling–Huaihe Line), there are nearly no district heating systems.
On August 14, 2023, Lewis and Clark County District Court Judge Kathy Seeley ruled in favor of the plaintiffs that the limitations on considering environmental factors when deciding oil and gas permits violated the right to a safe environment recited in Montana’s constitution.
History The Centre of Excellence was established in 2022 by the Energy Regulators Association of East Africa (EREA) to provide sustainable capacity building.
One commentator states, "an oil embargo is not a common commercial practice; it is a tool of political blackmail, meant to force those at whom it is aimed, into some action they would otherwise not be willing to take".
If the unit is not laid to falls, and the condensate not allowed to drain properly, this will increase fan energy consumption and reduce the seasonal efficiency of the device.
In order to allay the suspicions of British officials, Holmes claimed that he was looking for a rare butterfly, the Black Admiral of Qatif, although this deception appears not to have been effective.
In February 2025, the ministry was merged into the Ministry of Tourism and formed the Ministry of Tourism and Environment.
For these products tourmaline can be used to combat the harmonic distortion so they produce less heat and therefore, less energy loss.
By recovering some of the energy usually lost as waste heat, the recuperator can make a heat engine or gas turbine significantly more efficient.
Do you agree with President Carlos Mesa's policy of using gas as a strategic recourse to achieve a sovereign and viable route of access to the Pacific Ocean?
In July 2007 California's 2005 appliance standards came into effect, limiting external power supply standby power to 0.5 watts.
Families most likely to be energy insecure are families 200% under the poverty line, have young children, or have no college degree.
The economic coalition wanted unassisted market competition to prevail and preferred large-scale facilities.
This graph is the image of the business’ average energy performance, and conveys a lot of information: The y-intercept gives the minimal consumption in the absence of the variable (no production, zero degree-day...).
While polyurethane has outstanding mechanical and thermal properties, the high toxicity of the diisocyanates required for its manufacturing has caused a restriction on their use.
See also Intellectual property Clean technology Sustainability Patent law Renewable energy Climate change Renewable energy law Synthetic genomics Natural resource References External links Cleantechlaw.org CleanTech Docs
Given past oil discovery and production data, a Hubbert curve that attempts to approximate past discovery data may be constructed and used to provide estimates for future production.
According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), buildings is the sector which presents the most cost effective opportunities for GHG reductions.
Furthermore, improving building performance (particularly energy efficiency) is important for addressing climate change, since buildings account for 30% of global energy consumption, resulting in 27% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
Through its membership in the multi-nation ITER project, Russia participates in the design of nuclear fusion reactors.
CEER's objective is to facilitate cooperation among Europe's energy regulators in promoting a single-EU electricity and gas market.
The events that take place during the World Sustainable Energy Days present the latest technology trends, outstanding examples and European strategies and offer opportunities to establish new partnerships.
Sustainable energy planning should consider environmental impacts of energy consumption and production, particularly in light of the threat of global climate change, which is caused largely by emissions of greenhouse gases from the world's energy systems, which is a long-term process.
The program includes the creation of a standalone Global Registry of Fossil Fuels to ensure transparency and accountability of production and reserves.
The use of RETScreen is mandated or recommended by clean energy incentive programs at all levels of government worldwide, including the UNFCCC and the EU; Canada, New Zealand and the UK; numerous American states and Canadian provinces; cities and municipalities; and utilities.
Klein relates her meeting with Greta Thunberg in the opening essay in which she discusses the entrance of young people into those speaking out for climate awareness and change.
The Danish Ministry of Climate, Energy and Utilities (Danish: Klima-, Energi- og Forsyningsministeriet) is a governmental agency in Denmark.
The shift in the charge of electricity consumption instead of the present trend to increase of the fixed prices would promote economically the energy savings and renewable energy investments.
RECS International represents market players in discussions with national and international government, and facilitates events and activities.
These strategic storages are in addition to the existing storages of crude oil and petroleum products with the oil companies and serve in response to external supply disruptions.
The international manifesto called for fossil fuel divestment and phase-out of use with a just transition to a low-carbon economy.
This is differentiated from coasting, which means running the vehicle in idle mode by disengaging the engine from the wheels, either by disengaging the clutch or setting the transmission or gearbox to neutral position.
In the early 1990s annual foreign investment in oil was below US$200 million, by the early 2000s it had surpassed US$1 billion (Campodónico, 2004).
A Gas Act, with its variations, is a stock short title used internationally for legislation relating to the regulation, production, distribution, supply and use of natural gas or coal gas as a source of energy.
Foremost, they argued that "targeted and principled divestment from companies in the fossil fuels industry that meet certain criteria ...
universities form a complete business plan that commercializes a technology developed at their school or one of the National Labs.
The current editors-in-chief are Tina Soliman Hunter (Macquarie Law School), Madeline Taylor (Macquarie Law School), and Anas F.
The Unit plays a key role in Belize's efforts to achieve Target 8.f in the millennium development goals.
The Ministry of Power was a United Kingdom government ministry dealing with issues concerning energy.
Authors who criticize the "thesis" of Petro-Islam itself (that petrodollars have had a significant effect on Muslim beliefs and practices) include Joel Beinin and Joe Stork.
Water is used for extraction, mining, processing, refining, and residue disposal of fossil fuels, as well as for growing feedstock for biofuels and for generating electricity.
For example, raising poultry and domesticated animals is an important part of the traditional Chinese rural human settlements and these elements create a stable and sustainable ecological cycle that benefits the environment.
The Borehole Thermal Energy Storage unit is 144 holes located 37 m (121 ft) below the ground and stretches over an approximate area of 35 m (115 ft) in diameter.
In the plan, the member state sets out sectoral targets, the technology mix they expect to use, the trajectory they will follow, and the measures and reforms they will undertake to overcome the barriers to developing renewable energy.
In the United Kingdom there have been complaints that district heating companies have too much of a monopoly and are insufficiently regulated, an issue the industry is aware of, and has taken steps to improve consumer experience through the use of customer charters as set out by the Heat Trust.
Most of the world’s leading publicly traded, private and state-owned oil & gas companies, oil & gas associations and major upstream service companies are members.
39/2013 Gas (Amendment) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 2024 New Zealand Gas Act 1992 United Kingdom This is a list of UK Public General Acts, which have a regional or national applicability.
analyzed the thermal performance of buildings that have PCM-enhanced construction materials within the structure.
The 2016 G20 Energy Efficiency Leading Programme is the G20's first long-term plan for energy efficiency, which is a “comprehensive, flexible, and adequately-resourced” framework for strengthened voluntary collaboration on energy efficiency among G20 members and beyond.
Velomobile Velomobiles (enclosed recumbent bicycles) have the highest energy efficiency of any known mode of personal transport because of their small frontal area and aerodynamic shape.
In addition, legislation about products, industry, transport and buildings has contributed to a general energy efficiency framework.
For a proposal to be approved, at least 25 percent of the eligible voters had to vote in favour of the question.
Death can be caused by smoky environments from inefficient stoves or from combustion of kerosene or coal for cooking.
BPS is a technology of considerable potential that provides the ability to quantify and compare the relative cost and performance attributes of a proposed design in a realistic manner and at relatively low effort and cost.
In this regard, stand-alone or combined heat recovery systems can be incorporated into residential or commercial buildings for energy saving.
The first IAQVEC conference was held October 7–9, 1992 at the 5th International Jacques Cartier Conference in Montreal, and an annual meeting has been held since 1992.
Three individuals served as Secretary of Energy under President Felipe Calderón PAN: Georgina Yamilet Kessel Martínez (December 2006 – January 2011), José Antonio Meade (January – September 2011), and Jordy Herrera Flores (September 2011 – November 2012).
Maren is a marine energy management system used to minimize fuel usage, thereby reducing vessel operator's fuel cost and the harmful emissions.
"Sweden's energy policy, in both the short and the long term, is to safeguard the supply of electricity and other forms of energy on terms that are competitive with the rest of the world.
She is a judge and mentor for various journalism organizations including the National Press Foundation and Report for America.
On July 13, 2009, Morningstar represented the United States at the signing ceremony of the intergovernmental agreement of the Nabucco pipeline.
More specifically, the plaintiffs challenged a provision in the Montana Environmental Policy Act (MEPA) that prohibited the state from considering greenhouse gas emissions as a factor when deciding whether to issue permits for energy-related projects.
Many of the House Democrats who voted for the tax and who lost their seats in the 1994 midterm election, blamed their loss on their vote for the BTU tax.
Cuba had access to Venezuelan oil through its membership in Petrocaribe under non-market conditions.
That July, it was abolished, with the distribution of functions of the ministry going to the Cabinet of Ministers.
LCEC also receives support from the European Union through a contract signed with the Central Bank of Lebanon.
Many of its functions were abandoned, with the remainder being absorbed into other bodies or departments.
Framers of the Red Deal call for revolutionary resistance that involves caretaking and responsibility of human and non-human relations.
The Seoul Metropolitan Government announced the launch of the second phase of the One Less Nuclear Power Plant, Seoul Sustainable Energy Action Plan, in August 2014.
In October 2017, Rosatom was reported to be considering postponing commissioning new nuclear plants in Russia due to excess generation capacity and that new nuclear electricity prices are higher than for existing plants.
Phipat Ratchakitprakarn, Deputy Prime Minister of Thailand and co-owner of PTG Energy (branded as PT), one of the largest oil companies in Thailand, was assigned by Anutin Charnvirakul, Prime Minister of Thailand to control and mitigate the impact of fuel crisis in Thailand.
As of 2008, 43% of the Swedish primary energy supply comes from renewable sources, which is the largest share in any European Union country.
Notes References External links Text of the Energy Act 2010 as in force today (including any amendments) within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.
The resulting house incorporated three key elements: superinsulation, extreme airtightness, and one of the first heat-recovery ventilators.
The earlier directive also required EU members to submit National Energy Efficiency Action Plans, with the first plan to be lodged by 30 June 2007.
Indeed, in some cases, deregulation has led to significant concentrations of "market power" with large very profitable companies having a large influence as price setters.
In such programs, model equations are tightly connected to the solution methods, often by making the solution procedure part of the actual model equations.
More recently, they are attracting interest in the HVAC sector as an effective strategy for a low-maintenance energy recovery solution that reduces energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and HVAC system load.
Intel claims that display take up most power in mobile devices and reducing backlight linearly affects energy footprint.
In some countries natural gas is being used as a temporary "bridge fuel" to replace coal, in turn to be replaced by renewable sources or a hydrogen economy.
Asphalt felt and other products, such as porous polymer-based products, are available for this purpose and usually double as the water-resistant barrier/drainage plane.
As the name implies, it administers conservation efforts in Costa Rican national parks, develops energy sources, and regulates mining operations.
Overview The film is a reflection of the peak oil scenario argued by oil industry experts and political activists, including Matthew Simmons and James Howard Kunstler.
With aircraft There have been several aircraft hypermiling competitions held throughout the years, such the FuelVenture and CAFE challenges.
A nuclear gypsy is a temporary worker who performs the least desirable work in the nuclear power industry.
Following the 2014 Warburton Review initiated by the Abbott government, and subsequent negotiations with the Labor Opposition, in June 2015 the LRET target was reduced to 33,000 GWh.
This can be done through "reversible wetting" and drying of the PDRC surface with common liquids such as water and alcohol.
New Zealand Colleges and universities in New Zealand University of Otago (Dunedin, New Zealand) – in September 2016, the university created an ethical investments policy excluding investment in 'the exploration and extraction of fossil fuels'.
Notable awards include: 2023 - Grand Jury Award For Documentary Feature at the Awareness Film Festival in Los Angeles, California.
Nominations for the Interim Director-General and the interim headquarters were submitted by 30 April 2009.
Whether it is created by burning coal, oil or gas, or firewood or dung, or even running nuclear power plants, the first thing produced is heat".
The Ministry of Environment and Energy (Spanish: Ministerio de Ambiente y Energía, MINAE) is a ministry or department of the government of Costa Rica.
After being concluded, the agreement faced near total opposition from the petroleum industry, prompting U.S.
Hydropower stations of Georgia produce 80-85% of the electricity utilized within the country, the remaining 15-20% is produced by thermal power stations.
COGEN Europe was established in 1993 as a not-for-profit organisation (ASBL - association sans but lucratif in French and VZW - vereniging zonder winstoogmerk in Dutch) during the time that the European Union adopted the SAVE Directive.
List India Oil and Natural Gas Commission Act 1959 (repealed 1993) Ireland Gas Regulation Act, 1920 - Act No.
As of October 2009, the rate is assigned as follows: See also Carbon fee and dividend Carbon tax Ecotax Energy Tax Act of 1978 Energy Policy Act of 2005 Fuel economy in automobiles H.R.
National Solar Conference and World Renewable Energy Forum 2012 is an academic/scientific conference combined with a solar industry trade exhibition, to be held at the Denver Convention Center in Colorado, May 13 to 19, 2012.
Deutsche Post DHL operates over 1,100 in the UK and was the first operator in continental Europe; it announced in 2014 that it would use the trailers in France and Germany.
The Ministry of Hydrocarbons (MoH) is a ministry of the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
It received the Grand Jury Award for Documentary Feature at the 2023 Awareness Film Festival in Los Angeles, California, as well as the Best Educational Documentary Award at the 2024 International Uranium Film Festival in Rio de Janeiro.
A 2016 study argues that petrostates may be emboldened to act more aggressively because of the inability of allied great powers to punish the petrostate.
The Ministry of Climate Change, Environment and Energy (Dhivehi: މޫސުމީ ބަދަލުތަކާއި ތިމާވެށްޓާއި ހަކަތައާ ބެހޭ ވުޒާރާ) was a Maldivian government ministry tasked with safeguarding and preserving the Maldives ecosystems and biodiversity as well as promoting sustainable energy resources.
See also List of energy storage projects References External links Drake Landing Solar Community Retrieved on September 30, 2009 Drake Landing Solar Community: Workings Retrieved on September 30, 2009
Thaksin Shinawatra, then prime minister in 2002, established the Bureau of Energy on 2 November 2001, B.E.2544, which was later upgraded to the Ministry of Energy in 2002 pursuant to the Restructuring of Government Organization Act (2002).
Both funds aimed to leverage the UK's world-class research and innovation capacity to pioneer new ways to support economic development, social welfare, and long-term sustainable and equitable growth in low- and middle-income countries.
National and regional RETScreen training workshops have been conducted upon the official request of the Governments of Chile, Saudi Arabia, 15 countries in West and Central Africa, and the Latin American Energy Organization (OLADE).
The film also examines the realization of a new threat: the presence of nuclear waste stored close to the sea, focusing on its long-term radioactivity.
Objective 6: Realizing the general policies of article 44 of the constitution in oil industry Objective 7: Achieve advanced technology in oil, gas and petrochemical industries to reach the second position of science and technology in the region.
Because of the cross-flow design of the unit, its physical size will dictate the air path length, and as this increases, heat transfer will increase but pressure drop will also increase, and so plate spacing is increased to reduce pressure drop, but this in turn will reduce heat transfer.
Energy management software often provides tools for reducing energy costs and consumption for buildings, communities or industries.
The participation of a wide range of stakeholders is essential for achieving environmental, economic, and social sustainability in this framework.
DCIE is the percentage value derived, by dividing information technology equipment power by total facility power.
These issues range from conventional natural resources law to cutting-edge intellectual property issues related to synthetic genomics and advanced materials.
Moving to CBS News in New York, she won an Emmy for her work on the broadcast 48 Hours then moved to Washington to cover two presidential administrations for the various CBS broadcasts as well as the affiliate division Newspath.
Each regional winner receives DOE prize money and a chance to compete for a National Grand Prize at a competition held in Washington, D.C.
The religious concept of "Third Rome" only saw a major revival in the mid-19th century among Russian Slavophiles.
The exposure gained the interest of the public and the media, and while many considered it as a cult Ratzon and his wives claimed it to be a cooperative.
Life, publishing, legacy Bernhardt was born in Bischofswerda, in the Kingdom of Saxony, part of the German Empire, in 1875, to a innkeeping family.
Ahn's son Ahn Kwang-sup (born 1954) is an elder in the church and continues to expound on his father's work.
It was exposed as a forgery in 1920 by Lucien Wolf and the following year by Philip Graves in The Times.
For this reason, religious and historical experts thought the animation to be displayed for children and teenagers.
Between 1990 and 2001, he served eleven years of an eighteen-year sentence on a Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) conviction after he and several other Nation of Yahweh members were convicted of conspiracy for their ex-followers' role in more than a dozen murders.
A similar transformation occurred in Kashmir, either during the lifetime of Shams ud-Din Iraqi, who died in 1527, or in the subsequent decades, coinciding with the brief reign of the Chak dynasty.
The other is a hanging scroll from the Masuda family's emakimono Jigoku zoshi (ja), which was cut out and reworked into hanging scrolls.
These periods of concealment (dawr al-satr) might end with the renewed public manifestation of the imam, or continue until the present day.
In defense of his view he wrote Kitab al-Ghayba, which became the framework for the works of later Waqifite authors on the issue of al-Ghayba (the occultation).
Vukašin murdered him with the help of the voivode's young wife, Vidosava, despite Jevrosima's self-sacrificing attempt to save her brother.
Some early biblical manuscripts containing the text of this chapter in Hebrew are of the Masoretic Text tradition, which includes the Codex Cairensis (895), the Petersburg Codex of the Prophets (916), Aleppo Codex (10th century), and Leningrad Codex (1008).
Because Marko drank the samodiva's milk, he acquired supernatural powers and became a Bulgarian freedom fighter against the Turks.
It is quoted that Imam Mahdi taught du'a Faraj to Muhammad ibn Ahmad ibn Abi Layth, who was sheltered to Kadhimiya from the fear of being killed.
London and treason Around Easter 1591, Hacket travelled to London at Wigginton's suggestion, staying at a lodging house outside Smithfield.
Kohanim studying Although anti-Zionist, the Toldos Aharon chassidic movement has established a specialized study program for Jewish priests (kohanim) to prepare for Temple service.
The attacker was then brought to Menteng police station, and later transferred to Menteng Health Center.
He returns to Laban's house and orders Zoram, one of Laban's servants, to bring him the brass plates.
In Medina, the deputation stayed with the daughter of al-Harith, a woman of the Ansar from the Banu Najjar.
Membership The members of the group, which numbered around 1,000, appeared to be mostly poor Shi'a farmers from an agricultural area 19 kilometres northeast of Najaf, but they also seemed to have been heavily armed.
There is a focus on the cathartic release of emotions in the teachings, since emotional “errors” inside of people, which are emotions that are not in harmony with love, block the flow of God’s Love into the human soul.
The Magharians (Arabic: Al-Maghariyyah, 'people of the caves') or Maghāriya were, according to Jacob Qirqisani, a pre-Christian and proto-Gnostic Jewish sect founded in the 1st century BCE.
They cited various midrashic statements to fuel their ecstasy as to the imminent revelation of the Messiah, and some of them drank and toasted l’chaim and danced before and during the funeral – an act that shocked many admirers of Schneerson across the Jewish world.
She claimed to have direct contact with the 12th Shia Imam Muhammad al-Mahdi, and was a self-proclaimed miracle worker, despite her lack of wearing the customary Muslim hijab (veil).
In 1938, when Buckland Abbey was partly destroyed by fire, the drum was rescued and taken to safety at Buckfast Abbey.
In Judaism, the messiah will be a future Jewish king from the line of David and redeemer of the Jewish people and humanity.
In rabbinic thinking, the reestablishment of the Davidic kingdom was tied to the Messiah, who was to be a descendant of King David.
It can refer to the full circuit – the seen and unseen halves – of the stars across the dome of the sky, or the vault of heaven (Job 22:14) extending "in a half-circle from horizon to horizon", or a circular observable horizon (cf.
On December 4, 2005, former Prime Minister Iyad Allawi was assaulted by a mob in Najaf, where the Mahdi Army is influential.
Another eminent person attributed to the Waqifites was Yazid ibn Khalifa al-Harithi, who was regarded as one of the companions of Ja'far al-Sadiq (who reportedly praised him).
The city of Shazand is said to contain a cavern system where Kay Khosrow is hidden along with other immortals.
Its long-term aims are to build the third Temple in Jerusalem on the Temple Mount—the site occupied by the Dome of the Rock—and to reinstate korbanot and the other rites described in the Hebrew Bible and Jewish legal literature.
Disraeli, – I am desired by the Queen to reply to your letter of the 14th instant, respecting the appointment of a successor to the late Dr.
but shab barat festival have a long history." Iraq In Iraq, people give children candies as they walk through their neighborhoods.
This enthronement formula (Qal perfect third person masculine singular מָלַךְ [malakh], followed by the name of the king) is used in 2 Samuel 15:10; 1 Kings 1:11, 13, 18; 2 Kings 9:13.
Aftermath The surviving pilgrims were able to eventually reach Karbala after their airfares were paid for by wealthy Shias.
Wrede's broad concept of the Messianic Secret also involved the use of parables by Jesus, and in his criticism Schweitzer called it the weakest element of Wrede's approach.
There is also a 1999 abridged Esperanto translation by Shigeki Maeda, titled Diaj Revelacioj, with a total of 837 numbered paragraphs.
Robert Rozier, a former NFL player and a devotee of Mitchell's, confessed to seven of these murders.
Three years later, he succeeded his brother Maurice, who had died without male heirs, and became the 3rd Earl of Desmond.
Among the ventures were Jolly Makers and Happy Day food canteens, Deluxe bakeries makers of Goodluck bread, the properties housing this venture were then expanded to include barber shops and lodging.
These were particularly prevalent in the fifth century, and continued to appear until the Song dynasty.
As per Chabad-Lubavitch messianism, Menachem Mendel Schneerson openly declared his deceased father-in-law, the former 6th Rebbe of Chabad Lubavitch, to be the Messiah.
In 1860, the Taiping rebels were successful in taking Hangzhou and Suzhou to the east, but failed to take Shanghai, which marked the beginning of the decline of the Kingdom.
During the reign of Amir Timur, a mausoleum for Qutham ibn Abbas was constructed at his grave, adorned with various Arabic inscriptions and Central Asian designs from the Timurid period.
There was another major schism in the movement in 1999, following conflicts after the appointment of Siegfried Bernhardt (né Siegfried Holzapfel) the husband of Claudia-Maria, the daughter of Irmgard Bernhardt's adopted daughter Marga, as leader of the movement by Irmgard at the end of her life.
Most Egyptians hesitated to use the title the group used for itself, Jama'at al-Muslimin meaning "Society of Muslims", as it implied that the group was the society of Muslims, and those not members were not part of Muslim society and not true Muslims.
In the same passage Jesus also selects Peter as the leader of the Apostles, and states: "Upon this rock I will build my church." Most Christian denominations agree that the statement applies to Peter, but they diverge on their interpretations of what happens after Peter.
Kadouri said "It is forbidden to teach a non-Jew Kabbalah, not even Talmud, not even simple Torah;" perhaps referring to pop celebrity Madonna's publicised interest in Kabbalah; he also said that women (even Jewish) are not allowed to study Kabbalah.
In James Crossley and Alastair Lockhart (eds.) Critical Dictionary of Apocalyptic and Millenarian Movements.
These requests are routinely denied, and are followed by petitions to Israel's High Court of Justice.
The conspirators hope the presence of the ghola will weaken Paul's ability to rule by both disconcerting him and appealing to his emotional vulnerability.
The Washington Times In 1982, The Washington Times was founded by News World Communications, an international media conglomerate associated with Moon, which also owned newspapers in South Korea, Japan, and South America, as well as the news agency United Press International.
The museum also has a reconstruction of the 16th century Golden Tea Room, which was made under the supervision of the architect Sutemi Horiguchi, an expert of sukiya architecture.
Leadership vacuum As both the spiritual and political head of the Twelver community, the occultation of the Hidden Imam left a significant gap.
He attended Francisian Classic Gymnasium in Visoko and subsequently studied theology, but never actually became a priest.
They state that during their existence in the spirit world, they continued to grow and learn, and were able to discover a process by which they could return to Earth.
See also Capital punishment in Florida Capital punishment in the United States List of people executed in Florida List of people executed in the United States in 2000 List of people who have claimed to be Jesus Messiah complex References Sources Inmate Release Information Detail – Inmate 094542.
Incident The incident occurred when 38 Shias from a village in Chakwal Tehsil headed into the Arabian Sea led by Naseem Fatima (alternately, Nasreen Fatima).
Full-time workers in North America The highest-achieving full-time workers (workers that raised most funds in the Philippines) were nominated by church personnel to fundraise in North America.
Thomas Mears and William Price were convicted of the murder of the constable's brother, then the rest pleaded guilty.
One rises from Yemen who will not support the promised Mahdi but will fight Sufyani and finally die.
Yet the letter caused confusion as this was a reversal of Soloveichik's previous position on the matter.
He replaced Christmas with a feast day on his birthday (14 January) and claimed to possess an ability to heal cancer and AIDS with a touch from his hand.
Some Latter-day Saint apologists, such as Hugh Nibley, have argued an ancient setting for the Book of Mormon is plausible by speculating ancient identities of figures described in the Book of Mormon.
The group claims that the current currency has become "a slave of the dollar" because it is controlled by the Reserve Bank of India and the government.
He went on to teach Johrei to his followers to allow them to achieve Messianity and spread the teachings across the world.
Shi'ite traditions about the cemetery Shi'ite tradition holds that Abraham bought land in Wadi-us-Salaam, and that Ali had said the Wadi Al-Salaam was a part of heaven.
Public speaking and religious activities In 1969, at the age of 21, Inri began his public life as a self-professed prophet and astrologer, introducing himself as "Iuri de Nostradamus".
One of the earliest versions is De quindecim signis (PL XCIV.555) written in the 8th century by Pseudo-Bede.
The passage's third-person masculine singular nouns and verbs are cited as evidence for this position.
Princess of Rome features as many as 40 characters in the animation, and almost 100 specialists contributed to its production.
The Imperial Gazetteer of India, Baluchistan further records that Zikris regard Koh-e-Murad as their Ka'ba.
The revised version the Church currently uses was not authored by Hubbard, and instructs participants to repeat the same courses in perpetuity, which is the current church policy.
Pei continued to make changes to the design of the galleries during construction as new pieces were acquired for the collection.
Fard Muhammad wrote two manuals, the Secret Ritual of the Nation of Islam and the Teaching for the Lost Found Nation of Islam in a Mathematical Way.
Wright, "Jerusalem in the New Testament" (1994) (Jesus claimed to do and be what the Temple was and did) Ben F.
He was again indicted in South Korea on 28 October 2022 for sexually assaulting two female followers between 2018 and 2022.
In 1929 the society purchased castleside, a large house next to their base, that was being used as a boarding house for schoolboys.
Brighouse was one of the first people to claim to be the "One Mighty and Strong" that Joseph Smith had prophesied of in 1832.
His arrival will mark the end of the Kali Yuga and herald the beginning of the Satya Yuga, the most virtuous age, before the ultimate dissolution of the universe (Mahapralaya).
See also List of messiah claimants List of people claimed to be Jesus List of Seventh-day Adventists Messiah complex Notes References Beck, Richard (2024).
At the same time, Jesus is said to have despised the Romans for their cruelty, and fought them courageously.
On 9 January 2025, Jung Myung-seok was sentenced to 17 years in prison by the Supreme Court of South Korea.
Al-Tayyib is held to have died while still in concealment, but to have had descendants, who have provided a series of hidden imams that continue to the present day.
De los Santos, instead of going to jail, was sent to the National Center for Mental Health since he was thought to be insane; most reports state that he was mauled and killed while in the hospital, while his supporters claim that he died peacefully past 80 years old at Nueva Vizcaya.
Furthermore, the record in controversy was not the original baptism registry but a membership list created by a newly established church starting from 1958.
Certain strands of the Grail Movement consider Abd-ru-shin's wife Maria and her daughter divine as well.
Axelgard calls an "intense prophetic aspect" of the writing, and after citing Zenock and others, Nephi narrates having a spiritual experience.
Despite his defeat at Kufa, volunteers opposed to the Umayyad regime continued to flock to his banner, including remnants of the Kharijites defeated by Caliph Marwan II and some Abbasid followers.
This is a bizarre opinion since the issue of prayer of Jesus behind al-Mahdi has been proven strongly via numerous authentic traditions from the Messenger of Allah, who is the most truthful.
Indeed, the Sasanians had misidentified Zoroaster's era with that of the Seleucids (312 BC), which put Bahram's life almost at the end of Zoroaster's millennium; he was therefore hailed by many as the promised savior Kay Bahram Varjavand.
They are forbidden to read newspaper, watch TV, listen to radio, cut off all contact with the outside world, and children are forbidden to go to school.
The ancient name (2nd century AD-1893AD) of a large area in Central Asia compromising modern-states of Afghanistan, Tajikistan, half of Uzbekistan, parts of Turkmenistan and the eastern part of the modern Iranian state.
The Saint-Jovite community grew rapidly in the first years of the Second Vatican Council, exceeding 300 people in 1966.
For Thomas Aquinas (who also taught the Perfection of Christ), the "'Son of God' is God as known to God".
531–549 Helmut Obst: Apostel und Propheten der Neuzeit – Gründer christlicher Religionsgemeinschaften des 19.
This would affect his career as following his retirement, Botafogo president Charles Borer attempted to convince Rogério to play as a manager for various smaller clubs but he was ultimately uninterested as he had begun getting interested in Messianic philosophy.
The delegation before their departure embraced Islam and renounced Christianity without compunction.
It is the type of religious delusion that is classified as grandiose while the other two categories are persecutory and belittled.
In Brazil Japanese Brazilians are the largest concentration of people of Japanese descent outside Japan.
The Branch Davidians of Waco: The History and Beliefs of an Apocalyptic Sect (Oxford, Oxford University Press, 2006).
Major examples are King Arthur of Britain, Charlemagne of the Franks, and Holy Roman Emperor Frederick Barbarossa, as well as Ogier the Dane and William Tell.
English speakers now often use "Christ" as if it were a name, one part of the name "Jesus Christ", though it was originally a title.
On April 12, 1805, Benjamin Youngs and two companions held the first ceremony west of the Allegheny Mountains.
The connections to the Scottish tradition concerning Thomas the Rhymer's journey to Elphame (Fairyland) and the ballad of Tam Lin have been pointed out, but Francis James Child went so far as to assert these were derivatives of the Ogier romance.
Scholars such as Imam Shafii, Imam Nawawi, Imam Ghazzali, and Imam Suyuti have declared praying acceptable on the night of mid-Shaban.
On 2 December 1950, the UN General Assembly adopted Resolution 390 (V), which ceded the former Italian colony of Eritrea to the Ethiopian Empire.
The movement itself was founded by Koriam Urekit upon his election in 1964, following a prophecy made by the Pomio cult leader Bernard Balatape ('Bernard') the year before.
Iran youth immigration In 1979, during the Iranian Revolution and Iranian hostage crisis, Schneerson directed arrangements to rescue Jewish youth and teenagers from Iran and bring them to safety in the United States.
Mussy denied responsibility for the previous suicide and suicide attempts, and denied that his group would kill themselves, saying that death was not the way out and that Néo-Phare was not a cult.
On 31 August 2012, Moon was transferred to a church-owned hospital near his home in Gapyeong, northeast of Seoul, after suffering multiple organ failure.
Isma'ilism One of the titles of the Ismaili Imam is qa'im, conveying that it is the Imam who ushers in the resurrection (qiyama).
גאולה מרצון - סיפורה של אחת מנשות גואל רצון [Voluntary Redemption - The Story of a Lady Goel Ratzon].
After her marriage and the death of four infant children, Lee thought that God was punishing her for engaging in sexual relations with her husband.
In particular, they argued for the political interests of the Turco-Egyptian government and the British, that his manifestation did not conform with the "time of troubles" "when the land is filled with oppression, tyranny, and enmity".
Among these individuals the Yamani is the closest to guidance, for he calls the people to join Imam al-Mahdi.
They further said that Mussy had never attempted to influence them to do things they did not want to do.
They argue the presence of both unconditional and conditional promises to the house of David would create intense theological dissonance in the Book of Kings.
Another force under Sarames the Elder was also sent to stop Bahram, who defeated him and had him trampled to death by elephants.
In 1995, the Sudanese branch of the group planned to assassinate al-Qaeda-leader Osama bin Laden while he was residing in Sudan because his views were considered to be too liberal.
Finally, he discusses the Imam's birth, those who witnessed him, the signs and reasons for his imamate, as well as the letters and messages issued by him, aiming to provide a strong rebuttal to those who deny occultation.
The High Court, also routinely, permits the group to enter the site, but not to pray there; and such permit is contingent on the Israeli police concluding that the security situation would allow such entry.
Muslim holiday celebrations have been called Kandil (Arabic: qindīl, oil lamp) since Sultan Selim II of the Ottoman Empire after burning lamps to light up minarets on the occasion of special blessed nights.
In August 2017, two Zikri pilgrims were killed and two were wounded when a bomb detonated in the Kamp Tal area of Pangjur, Balochistan.
Rua insisted that his people boycott military service, arguing it was immoral to fight for a Pākehā King and Country given the injustice meted out on Māori under the British crown.
Nero's death was a surprise to many, and he was rather young at the time, 31 years old, so if he had somehow lived, suggesting he might still be a relevant force in the 70s and 80s AD was not unreasonable.
Mary of Laon" (De miraculis sanctae Mariae Laudunensis), written by a French cleric and chronicler named Hériman of Tournai in c.
Significance and traditions To pray for the dead and ask God for the forgiveness of the dead is a common ceremony in all cities that hold Barat ceremonies.
Starting in 2001, the group began efforts to proselytize online by creating websites which host church scripture in various languages, links to group chats, and news about online events.
Led by Dia Abdul Zahra Kadim, who was killed in the battle, the Soldiers of Heaven were accused of trying to start a "messianic insurrection" at the holy city of Najaf during the event of Ashura.
On 8 September 2014, Tel Aviv-Yafo District Court convicted Ratzon of most of the sexual assaults with which he had been charged, but acquitted of the slavery charge.
In April 2010 it was reported that Tari again attempted escape from custody but was caught quickly afterwards.
Ahead of their Time Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine www.jamaicans.com References Sources Jack A.
Those who did survive were arrested for attempting to leave Pakistan without proper travel documents.
In 2004, he told The Independent: Religious wars are back in fashion, and the main problem is that I don't empathise with religious sentiment.
Of course Ching Hai herself uses 24 hour satellite TV programming to reach out to potential new recruits.
Rabbi Michael Samuel of Temple Beth Sholom in Chula Vista, California, opined: "Lubavitchers do not want to know anything about Jesus." Boteach, for his part, said: "We are the People of the Book.
It was centered in Northeast China and established its own state within a state commune network called the Stone Kingdom until its abolition in 1999.
By 1891, after a prolonged struggle, the Kalifa Abdallahi ibn Muhammad emerged as sole leader due to support from the nomadic Baggara Arabs of the west.
According to the autopsy report, Habe's throat had been slashed and she had received numerous knife wounds to the chest.
The World Elijah Evangelical Mission (now known as Elijah's Ten Commandments Stone Country Korean Farmers) was a religious group founded in 1980 by a Chinese Korean man named Park Myung Hoo (朴鳴呼), with five levels of membership: God, Angel, General Secretary, Chief, and Director.
Soshiant (Avestan: 𐬯𐬀𐬊𐬳𐬌𐬌𐬀𐬧𐬝 saoš́iiaṇt̰) is an Avestan-language term that literally means "one who brings benefit", and which is used in several different ways in Zoroastrian scripture and tradition.
88, during the reign of Emperor Domitian), there was possibly a third pretender, although some historians speculate he may have been the same Pseudo-Nero as in 79 AD.
Although the Taghlib tribe under Hudhayl ibn 'Imran pledged their allegiance and abandoned Christianity, the majority of the Banu Tamim clans rejected her call, which made Sajah give up hope of getting the support from the majority of her own kinsmen.
Early life and education The middle son of three boys, Icke was born in Leicester General Hospital to Beric Vaughan Icke and Barbara J.
Because of the Arian domination of some of the Roman Empire by barbarian tribes, the bishop of Rome could not fully exercise such authority.
In Chapter 4 Sariel changes the name of Jacob to Israel in order to have it "to be similar to his own name".
Seyed Khorasani (Arabic: ٱلسَّيِّد ٱلْخُرَاسَانِي, romanized: As-Sayyid Al-Khurāsānī) is an Islamic leader whose rising is an essential part of Islamic eschatology.
Conspiracy theorists in Australia linked smart city technologies to an agenda to create a one world government and install "big brother" technology to control the community.
He founded the International Peace Mission movement, formed its doctrine and oversaw its growth from a small and predominantly black congregation into a multiracial and international church.
Rejection of worldly pleasures and self-flagellation were, according to him, the only way to reconcile oneself with God.
Personal life Torop repudiated his first wife and married a nineteen-year-old who had lived with him since she was seven.
It is regarded as a night in which the fortunes of individuals for the coming year are decided and Allah may forgive sinners.
Navy from 1942 to 1969, attaining the rank of lieutenant commander, and participated in World War II, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War.
941) in his Kafi fi elm al-din refers to written decrees from the Hidden Imam to some pious men, including the first two agents.
External links Pieces with text from Psalm 110: Scores at the International Music Score Library Project Psalm 110: Free scores at the Choral Public Domain Library (ChoralWiki) A psalm of David.
Not even after 2003 or 2006 [the height of Iraq's civil war]." Important monuments Tombs of the Grand Ayatollahs The Grand Ayatollah, Muhammad Baqir al-Sadr, is buried in this cemetery.
Some time after their arrival in the Promised Land, Laman and Lemuel once again try to kill Nephi and he flees with several members of the family.
Lapiang Malaya massacre In May 1967, de los Santos publicly demanded that Marcos step down and surrender the Presidency to the Lapiang Malaya.
A British view of Abd al-Rahman at this time was given by Sir Stewart Symes, writing in April 1935, "He has the defects of a Sudanese of his type, the liking of intrigue, vanity, irrelevance and opportunism.
Career Kincannon briefly held the position of executive director of the South Carolina Republican Party, resigning after three months.
Watson then cleaned off the bayonet and showered, while Krenwinkel wrote "Rise" and "Death to pigs" on the walls and "Healter [sic] Skelter" on the refrigerator door, all in LaBianca's blood.
Rua, flanked by some of his wives and supporters while seated on a chair that had been borrowed from the pub, acknowledged Joseph Ward approaching.
After college, Hanna moved to Los Angeles, California, to work with internet media company BuzzFeed but eventually left to focus on her YouTube and Vine platforms.
He described himself as a mercenary with no political orientation, although he is known to have been a member of the Turkist far-right organisation Grey Wolves, as well as the state-sponsored Counter-Guerrilla.
Five people survived by spitting out gruel when Butaog was not looking, and later pretended to be dead in their homes.
Farrakhan's Nation expanded its international network by building links in Africa, seeking a closer relationship with Muslims globally, and opening its first British mosques in the 1990s.
In stanzas 128 and 129 of Yasht 13, the following explanation of the word's etymology is given: "we worship the frawaṣ̌i of righteous Astwat̰-ərəta, who will be the Victorious Saošyant by name ...
Once installed at St Jude's, M‘Neile's eloquence attracted the attention of the Bishop of Chester – John Sumner (1780–1862), later Archbishop of Canterbury – who appointed him as an honorary canon of his cathedral.
Sergey Torop (born 1961), who started to call himself "Vissarion", founder of the Church of the Last Testament and the spiritual community Ecopolis Tiberkul in Southern Siberia.
His prophetic sayings (nga kupu whakari) gave meaning to a harsh existence, and offered hope to the future.
In 1901 Ruel Clement contracted typhoid and died without taking medicine or seeing a doctor, believing his faith would cure him.
Other scholars instead have suggested that the name of the Bana'im is derived from the Greek word for "bath".
The landmark gained international fame as the "distinctive, lopsided peak" featured at the beginning and end of the 1965 movie The Sound of Music, although the filming was done on the German side, not the Austrian side.
He removed the explicit statement of the claim from the 1937 and later editions, but it still is the meaning for the Message of the Grail that Abd-ru-shin is the apocalyptic Son of Man.
In 1972, Moon founded the International Conference on the Unity of the Sciences, a series of scientific conferences.
Evans became interested in the multifarious sects that flourished under the new liberty of Charles I's reign, opposing most of them, especially the tenets of the Fifth Monarchist.
In February 2007, Raël, who wanted to start commercial activities with Swiss vintners, was denied residence in the Swiss Canton Valais, in part because he was feared to be endangering public values by promoting sexual liberty and the education of children on how to obtain sexual pleasure.
On December 18, COMELEC dismissed the disqualification case against Quiboloy, citing insufficient and incorrect evidence.
After a number of deaths in their community including their founder they also allowed for the possibility that they would die and go to join immortal beings on Uranus until the return of Christ.
John Skinner, in the Cambridge Bible for Schools and Colleges, considers it is "difficult to decide" whether the words in verse 9 are addressed to the Lord "by the prophet himself, or by the community of true Israelites".
Details about his birth, as well as his whereabouts following his mysterious disappearance, are apocryphal.
Virgil] foretold [the future coming Christ] according to the verses of the Cumaean Sibyl" (that is, the priestess presiding over the Apollonian oracle at Cumae).
In January 2001, Mussy, with 20 followers, formed Néo-Phare; most members were between the ages of 30 and 40, and largely couples with some children.
Through Rotterdam and London, marble shipping was directed toward the East and West Indies and exported at the rate of 60,000 to 80,000 (and sometimes as high as 100,000) pounds per year.
Through his death, resurrection, and ascension the Son is glorified by the Father (John 17:1–24), but it is not a glory that is thereby essentially enhanced.
He held the belief that at least parts of the Bible were antiheterosexual, such as his interpretation of the book of Genesis.
London: Oxford University Press Further reading Vagabonds All by His Honour Judge Edward Abbott Parry, published by Charles Scribner's Sons in 1926, 264p.
Members of Sanders' family and Memphis' African-American community disputed the MPD's version of events.
The accounts are generally considered to be independent events, though often been conflated—a result being the assumption that Mary is a prostitute.
Imam as-Sadiq was reported saying: Coming out of three groups "Sufyani, Khorasani and Yamani" will be in: a year, a month, and a day.
Traditions and memorials The traditions related to King Matjaž have a significant role in the Slovenian Carinthia, particularly the Črna Valley, where a competition in building snow castles as well as visual art and literary writing related to King Matjaž has taken place every January since 1993.
The world economic system would have been altered to encourage every nation to be self-sufficient, based on agriculture.
End of the 15th century At the end of the 15th century, the emergence of the idea that Moscow is truly a new Rome can be found; the whole idea of Moscow as Third Rome could be traced as early as 1492, when Metropolitan of Moscow Zosimus expressed it.
African tenants also had to follow strict regulations, and were prohibited from acquiring timber or hunting animals.
Pope Zachary was pressed into action by the final Lombard campaign against the exarchate of Ravenna, whose fall in mid-751 sealed the end of Byzantine rule in Central Italy.
Shach objected to Schneerson's calling upon the Messiah to appear and eventually called for a boycott of Chabad and its institutions.
Following the arrival of European colonists, Tolai people had favourable access to Western education and government, enabling further exploitation of the neighbouring Baining.
In 1806, a Shaker village, named Watervliet after the New York town that was the site of the first Shaker settlement, was established in what is today Kettering, Ohio, surviving until 1900 when its remaining adherents joined the Union Village Shaker settlement.
According to American anthropologist Felix Moos, Park felt discriminated against in Japan as a Korean, which explains why he maintained a strong anti-Japanese orientation in later life.
cell, Debra Dobkowski, and spent 16 months in prison before his conviction was overturned on appeal.
Abdul-Zahra Kadim dispatched a three-man assassination squad to a hotel where senior Shia spiritual leader Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani had his office with plans to attack the office.
Millenarianist movements can be secular (not espousing a particular religion) or religious in nature, and are therefore not necessarily linked to millennialist movements in Christianity.
Attempted coup and era of decolonization Selassie contributed Ethiopian troops to the United Nations Operation in the Congo peacekeeping force during the 1960 Congo Crisis, per United Nations Security Council Resolution 143.
Sun Yat-sen came from the same area as Hong and was said to have identified with Hong since his childhood days.
Its members are presented as guardians and guides of Earth's total evolutionary process, known in Theosophical cosmology as the doctrine of Planetary Rounds.
During the trials, some of the disciples testified against Asahara, and he was found guilty on 13 of 17 charges, including the Sakamoto family murder; four charges were dropped.
After being promoted he fought a long, indecisive campaign in 572–591 against the Byzantines in northern Mesopotamia.
Government action against Raël In response to Raël's association with Clonaid, South Korean immigration authorities at the airport denied him entry into their country in 2003.
2018: Inside the Manson Cult: The Lost Tapes, narrated by Liev Schreiber, looks inside the Manson Family.
The spelling Christ in English became standardized in the 18th century, when, in the spirit of the Enlightenment, certain words' spelling changed to fit their Greek or Latin origins.
On a 2018 interview on Genius' Verified, she sang her song "Monster" a cappella but due to technical errors, the microphone was unable to record her voice properly.
The first rape/murder accusation against Tari involves the fate of Rita Herman, who joined the cult at age 13 as a personal "flower girl" of the self-styled messiah.
Police concerns The camp site, Jawahar Bagh is between the office of the Mathura Superintendent of Police and the Tehsil office.
In London, he made vain efforts to warn King Charles I of perceived dangers but succeeded in telling the Earl of Essex to his face of his future promotions.
Between the years 1998–2004, the messianists have garnered support from rabbis to issue a rabbinic ruling supporting their messianic claims.
Regardless, Hormizd could not tolerate the rising fame of Bahram, and thus had him disgraced and removed from the Sasanian office for supposedly having kept some of the booty for himself.
The Ofudesaki (おふでさき or 御筆先, "Tip of the Writing Brush") is the most important scripture in Tenrikyo.
The group was founded and led by Cho in 1981 in Bucheon, Gyeonggi as "Yeongsaeng-gyo The Lord's Crusade Victory Altar" (영생교 하나님의 성회 승리제단).
The final arguments from Jung Myung-seok's side, along with the court's ruling, are expected to take place during the appellate trial on 6 September.
This event, involving members of the Shia community, resulted in 18 casualties and a similar number of injuries.
Julian Bolton, a Shelby County Commissioner at the time, criticized the police response as excessive, as he felt that not everyone in the house was responsible for Hester's death.
The letter, said to have been written by al-Mahdi, stipulated thatAs for the events which may occur [in future when you may need guidance in religious matters] refer to the transmitters (ruwat) of our sayings (hadith) who are my hujja (lit.
Terminology Wikalah is an Arabic word describing a person who performs duties on behalf of someone else.
Incorporating conspiracy beliefs, Hashem asserts that figures like Zeus, Confucius, and Alexander the Great were divine messengers.
And his family, and make him, O God, among those whom You have protected from the wrath of the aggressors.
Komisar added that at the scene of the Mercedes-Benz crash where Çatlı died, he was found with a passport under the name of "Mehmet Özbay" — an alias also used by Ağca.
It has been assumed that the legend was the basis for the name of the 1573 peasants' revolt leader Matija Gubec, actually named Ambrož Gubec.
The word of dua is derived from an Arabic word which means “summon” or “call out”, while Faraj means emancipation of sorrow, and opening (or improvement in the works/affairs).
DIY Arri Alexa 65 camera was used to shoot the film, thus making it the first Indian film to use this technology.
The allegation involved Miller barging into the couple's bedroom and threatening "I will bury you and your slut wife." Soon after, Miller fled Hilo with a friend to stay in Volcano, Hawaii.
The story says that the ghosts are trapped inside the Ålleberg mountain, waiting for a new war to wake them up so they can fight to save the country.
External links Jewish Isaiah 51 Hebrew with Parallel English Christian Isaiah 51 English Translation with Parallel Latin Vulgate Archived 2016-07-04 at the Wayback Machine
79–80 Darras, Joseph Éphiphane (1866), A General History of the Catholic Church: From the Commencement of the Christian Era until the Present Time, Vol.
“Swallowing the land of Bayda”), in Islamic eschatology, is a future event in which the Earth will swallow up Bayda, a desert area between Mecca and Medina.
The NOI claims that most enslaved blacks forgot their true names, their Arabic language, and their Muslim identity, instead embracing Christianity, which the Nation labels "white man's religion".
Sachedina holds that this later stress of the Twelver literature on the four deputies (al-nuwwab al-arba') was likely due to their prominence in Baghdad, the Shia center of the time.
Other members of the Society and the Order supported his new direction and opposed the critical views expressed by Theosophical leaders.
However, the assassination attempt failed, and he was captured and imprisoned by the Italian police.
Any statements in that letter which imply an endorsement of their view were not shown to me at the time I signed and I once again repudiate any such ridiculous claim.
After the Battle of Yamama, where Musaylima was killed, sources mention that Sajah converted to Islam after giving up her claim of prophethood and died after 661 during the reign of Mu'awiya I.
Francisco de Jesus Fernandes (21 August 1946 – 14 April 2010), better known as Chiquinho Pastor, was a Brazilian professional footballer who played as a centre-back.
He received the nickname "Pastor" because he was a reverend of the World Messianic Church of Brazil (IMMB).
Ecumenical meetings among different denominations have taken place regarding these interpretations, but no final agreement has emerged.
He himself often claimed to be a former member of Croatian elite counter-terrorist unit ATJ Lučko, but unit's members publicly refuted these claims, even saying that Pavlović embarrasses them.
Its first usage is obviously important in establishing the sense in which we are to understand it, and here it is clear that the community of Israel/Jacob is so described." Text The original text was written in Hebrew language.
According to Vincent Bugliosi it was to make sure Manson's address did not violate the California Supreme Court's decision in People v.
He envisioned himself as the Messiah son of Joseph, destined to die in battle, after which the Messiah son of David would appear.
In Baltistan and Ladakh The Noorbakshia order persists in Baltistan and Kargil (in Ladakh) as a distinct sect with its own unique doctrinal blend encompassing elements of Shi'a and Sunni Islam.
He preached that Jesus was black and that "white devils" temporarily rule over black people, and was seen as teaching hate.
Verse 6 The multitude of camels shall cover your land, The dromedaries of Midian and Ephah; All those from Sheba shall come; They shall bring gold and incense, And they shall proclaim the praises of the Lord.
In its adjacent areas are the Sri Sathya Sai General and Super Specialty Hospital (Whitefield), Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Medical Sciences, Sai Central Trust and an old age home, Sri Sathya Sai Vriddhashram.
This relationship was established through the Kingdom of Hira, which was an extension of the Persian Empire.
Regino reports that there were groups of women who believed that they could go on night journeys where they would fly across the sky to meet Diana and her train.
Upon the orders of Said ibn Uthman, Qutham ibn Abbas remained in Samarkand and engaged in propagating and spreading Islam, as well as implementing Sharia rules in the city, through several wars.
Her parents, Chase Iron Eyes and Sara Jumping Eagle, said they requested the court order because of Miller's use of "violence, intimidation, threat of violence, fear, paranoia, delusions, and drugs" to hold sway over their child.
On 13 March 1884 the tribes north of Khartoum declared for the Mahdi, cutting the telegraph and blocking river traffic.
The Arrivals documentary In his earlier years, Abdullah was involved with the internet Islamic conspiracy documentary The Arrivals (2008).
She was eventually dismissed because a footman whose attentions she rejected claimed that she was "growing mad".
So far, more than 400 have been explored—including the Schellenberg Ice Cave at an elevation of 1,570 m (5,150 ft), a show cave since 1925, and the Kolowrat Cave with a 300 m (980 ft) high dome.
During the course of editing the manuscript, Onisaburo Deguchi altered some of the meanings of the original text, since he and Nao Deguchi had differing beliefs.
The first of his three Detroit parsonages was a three-story, multiroom mansion at 246 Ferry Avenue and was described as "luxurious" in an article in The Detroit News of July 2, 1944.
Although the Almohad movement itself was founded by Ibn Tumart, after his death the second ruler Abd al-Mu'min was elected in 1133 by the Masmuda Shaykhs the leading authority of the state the councils of 10 and 50.
Success and controversies Although the exact number of followers he gathered is a matter of controversy, Park’s became one of the largest new religious movements in Korea, with perhaps two million members in the mid-1960s.
For the 1971 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A, Rogério would be transferred to play for Santos as a part the club receiving Carlos Alberto in a loan alongside Fernando Ferretti and Moreira.
After Ahn Sahng-hong's death, the World Mission Society Church of God declared him as the Second Coming Christ.
External links Sekai Kyusei Kyo IZUNOME Miroku Association USA Izunome Association Canada Igreja Messianica Mundial do Brasil Guarapiranga Sacred Grounds - Sao Paulo, Brazil Archived 2022-06-16 at the Wayback Machine Shumei
Early legends Nero's death was followed by upheaval and chaos in the Year of the Four Emperors (69 AD).
They further noted that, of the small proportion of tourists alleged to have exhibited spontaneous psychosis after arrival in Jerusalem, Bar-El et al.
Teachings Ben Ammi claimed that he and the Black Hebrews from the original Liberian settlement were not Jews but Hebrews, the true descendants of the ancient Israelites.
Wells's books were influential in giving a second meaning to the term "new world order", which would only be used by state socialist supporters and anti-communist opponents.
A core doctrine in some variations of Christian eschatology is the expectation that the Second Coming is very near and that there will be an establishment of a Kingdom of God on Earth.
This version was taken up and reshaped by the Irish, after which it became a source for many European visions of the "end of days".
Al-Shaykh al-Saduq has narrated --from Ja'far al-Sadiq-- that: five signs are decisive before the rising of Qa'im (قائم): Yamani, Sufyani, Heavenly cry (calling) from the sky, The murder of Nafs-e-Zakiyyah and Khasf al-Bayda.
After many setbacks in life and in a search for meaning, Okada became a member of Oomoto, one of Japan's new religions that was preparing for the New Age of Light, where he practiced a traditional hands-on, massage style Shinto-based purifying therapy.
Verse 1 Listen, O isles, unto me; and hearken, ye people, from far; The LORD hath called me from the womb; from the bowels of my mother hath he made mention of my name.
Significant pockets of adherents continue to exist, particularly with many residing in Baltistan, and in villages scattered throughout Kargil and the Nubra Valley in Ladakh.
In late 2004, Kaduri said "Great tragedies in the world are foreseen" two weeks before the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami; reporter Baruch Gordon of Arutz Sheva connected the two by saying Kaduri predicted the tragedy.
For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work, but only until the one who now restrains it is removed.
He then turned to the study of acupuncture and traditional Chinese medicine, which were common careers for the blind in Japan, and he established a Chinese medicine shop outside Tokyo.
By April 1884, Gordon had managed to evacuate some 2,500 of the foreign population who had been able to make the trek northwards.
He also played for Flamengo, where he made 112 appearances and won two more titles, and for Grêmio in 1974, playing 27 matches.
There are criticisms that this is unfair as equal reporting opportunities were not provided to mainstream Christian media.
Most of the major branches of Western Christianity and Eastern Orthodoxy subscribe to this formulation, while many branches of Oriental Orthodox Churches reject it, subscribing to miaphysitism.
By the end of the 1920s Bernhardt had managed to attract a following of several thousand people, primarily Germans, Austrians, Swiss and Czechs.
Jamaican labourers were subjected to harsh working conditions, before being boarded up at night in shoddy, disease-ridden shacks.
Among the first accounts of him describe events in the late 9th Hijri, the Year of Delegations, when he accompanied a delegation of his tribe to Medina.
Although Gong did not initially recognize the sexual exploitation due to the church's teachings and Lee's authority, she came to realize the abuse after leaving the organization in 2022, leading her to file the lawsuit.
As centuries went by and more political ruptures occurred, the idea of institutional continuity became increasingly debatable.
Police also uncovered some planning documents authored by the attacker dated back to 2018 revealing a desire to attack MUI and several other government officials if his demands were not fulfilled.
Kincannon then transferred to Erskine College, and graduated with 3 bachelor's degrees in Chemistry, Physics, and Mathematics in 2002.
Uroš was weak and unable to counteract these separatist tendencies, becoming an inferior power in his own domain.
Tabatabai suggests that these restrictions were placed on al-Askari because the caliphate had come to know about traditions among the Shia elite, predicting that the eleventh Imam would father the eschatological Mahdi.
On 5 May 2023, the coroner reported that the perpetrator suffered a massive heart attack after the attack, which contributed to his death.
In Isaiah 36:6, Sennacherib, king of Assyria, had referred to Egypt as a "broken reed", criticising Israel's dependence on Egypt during the reign of king Hezekiah.
Rhetoric A constant barrage of rhetoric rivets media attention while obscuring actions such as neoliberal deregulation.
He is currently said to be living in secret in London; promoted by New Age activist Benjamin Creme and his organization, Share International (See Maitreya (Benjamin Creme)).
Therefore, from the early Middle Ages, Psalm 110 (109 in the Septuagint numbering, beginning in Latin Dixit Dominus) has traditionally been recited at the beginning of vespers on every Sunday.
M‘Neile's father owned considerable property (including the large farm at Collier's Hall), was a Justice of the Peace and served as the High Sheriff of the County of Antrim.
In September 2014, Tel Aviv-Yafo District Court convicted Ratzon of rape, fraud and other offences against his wives and daughters.
Alexander Zaitchik from the Southern Poverty Law Center wrote a report titled "'Patriot' Paranoia: A Look at the Top Ten Conspiracy Theories", in which he personally condemns such conspiracies as an effort of the radical right to undermine society.
The messiah complex is a mental state in which a person believes they are a messiah or prophet and will save or redeem people in a religious endeavour.
He had calculated the date from a study of the Book of Revelation, the prophecies of Hildegard of Bingen, the Sibyl, and other sources.
The voice from heaven (Arabic: صوت من السماء), according to Shia Islamic eschatology, will be words spoken by Gabriel (Jibrael), which is one of the signs of Mahdi's appearance.
Disciples of Christ found Peoples Temple to be "an exemplary Christian ministry overcoming human differences and dedicated to human services." Peoples Temple contributed $1.1 million ($5,694,509 in 2024) dollars to the denomination between 1966 and 1977.
Visitations The Twelvers believe that the primordial light of the prophethood has continued to shine through the ages in the character of the Imams.
Copies of the Ofudesaki and the Osashizu (Divine Directions) were recalled from local churches, and the Ofudesaki was not allowed to be preached until the end of World War II.
Cultural impact The drum has become an icon of English folklore with its variation of the classic king asleep in mountain story.
His teaching style has been described as "frank, direct, and even blunt." At the same time, Rees suggests that Nephi may have drawn inspiration for his writing style from passages found in the brass plates.
He also claimed that Israeli Jews and Palestinian Arabs had an erroneous tradition of descent from Isaac and Ishmael, respectively, and that they were instead descended from European Crusaders.
What is known for certain is that Creffield first appeared in Seattle by 1899, and he quickly became involved in the Salvation Army.
Bayda means a desert without water and grass, and as an expression it is the name of a vast desert that is located to the 9 kilometer to the southwest of Medina and after Dhu al-Halifa; it likewise has been divided in two southern and northern parts through the way of Medina to Jeddah and Mecca.
Eventually, Ahura Mazda will triumph, and his agent Saoshyant will resurrect the dead, whose bodies will be restored to eternal perfection, and whose souls will be cleansed and reunited with God.
Four major religions ranked by the number of followers are Seicho-no-Ie, Messianity, Sukyo Mahikari, and PL Kyodan.
Natural Farming Another Japanese farmer and philosopher, Masanobu Fukuoka, conceived of an alternative farming system in the 1930s separately from Okada and used the same Japanese characters to describe it.
Muhammad Nurbakhsh Qahistani, a Sufi master of the 15th century, has received relatively little attention from researchers despite his significant influence.
There are records of numerous incidents when local villages and clans, as well as groups of pirates and bandits, came into conflict with the authorities, and responded by fleeing to join Hong's movement.
Jewish–Christian relations Before 1000 The earliest known example of a Jew and a Christian debating the meaning of Isaiah 53 is the example from 248 cited by Origen.
KJC members protested at the raid and expressed shock at the presence of "the police and military in full battle gear".
This widespread support affirmed that the Mahdist Revolution was a national rather than regional revolution.
Largey, Dennis L.; Arnold, Marilyn; Ball, Terry B.; Dahl, Larry E.; Parry, Donald W.; Seely, David R.; Williams, Clyde J., eds.
The Chaubis Avatar (24 incarnations) section mentions Sage Matsyanra describing the appearance of Vishnu incarnations to fight evil, greed, violence and ignorance.
Records of these investigations were published in Theosophical magazines starting April 1910, and in a book in 1913.
History Shia imams frequently had to deal with persecution and sometimes - in order to protect themselves - resorted to the practice of taqiya, a form of religious dissimulation.
2017 In 2017 presidential election, Ahmdinejad who backed Hamid Baghaei, registered as a candidate along with him, but both were disqualified.
According to MFI's website, Shahi claimed to be Awaited Messiah, but not the second coming of Jesus and claim that Jesus has also returned to support the Shahi.
Religious delusion The term messiah complex is not addressed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), as it is not a clinical term nor diagnosable disorder.
In Shia Islam, Hassani (Arabic/Persian: سید حسني), is a Sayyid (young man) whose rising is predicted to be among the signs of the reappearance of al-Mahdi.
Prior to the battle, members of the group were settled with their families at a "camp in Zarga, north of Najaf", where "the main part" of the fighting took place.
We do actually need this divine porn star to come down and teach us what it means to be human again...
Okada valued art as a way to keep the spirits lifted and clear the viewer's spirit through appreciation of beauty.
See also Shincheonji Church of Jesus Unification Church Good News Mission Manmin Central Church Providence (religious movement) Evangelical Baptist Church of Korea References External links Official website Official Website (Korean)
Furthermore, fine grain materials have been shown to act as better chemical barriers than sand caps.
Collaborations involved with ARES included Dignitas Technologies, Design Interactive (DI), the University of Central Florida's Institute for Simulation and Training, and the U.S.
Luna E-8-5M No.412 was launched at 04:04:56 UTC on 16 October 1975 atop a Proton-K 8K78K launch vehicle with a Blok D-1 upper stage, flying from Site 81/23 at the Baikonur Cosmodrome.
Related compounds Urea is the parent for a class of chemical compounds that share the same functional group.
There is a stretch of nearly 2 billion years of lunar history that planetary scientists have not been able to date because the Apollo missions did not retrieve any young rocks.
The brothers were transported to Ba Sing Se, where there was a bounty on the two for aiding the airbenders' escape, and incarcerated.
Recharge in rural areas is heavily supported by precipitation, and this is the opposite for urban areas.
Naga is much more graceful than Lina and has an outrageously loud boisterous 'noblewoman' (ojousama) laugh (which Kanzaka said is similar to the laughter of Naga's mother) that most people in the Slayers world find unbearably obnoxious (to the point of rendering them physically powerless).
A high phosphate concentration is a common indicator of decaying organic matter, such as bones, tissue, or excrement.
Rendezvous with the 88P/Howell would happen in May 2031 and the interactions would last up to 294 days.
They are typically classified as oxisols (USDA soil taxonomy) or ferralsols (World Reference Base for Soil Resources).
This historic method of building construction is mainly localised to Haddenham and the surrounding local area in Buckinghamshire.
She could permit or prevent mining in certain places, give or take wealth, and sometimes employs lizards under her control as her minions to conduct her work.
He also sometimes refers to the character as something playing on the object's name or appearance (such as calling a grapefruit "Apefruit").
Chronic exposure to trichloroethylene has also been linked to an increased risk of Parkinson's disease.
Because most sands are highly siliceous, Psamments are also extremely low in all essential nutrients, most especially phosphorus and are highly acidic in all except very arid climates.
Uehara, Gore; Gillman, Gavin (1981), Mineralogy Chemistry and Physics of Tropical Soils With Variable Charge Colloids, Westview Tropical Agriculture Series
Furthermore, the shear strength of discontinuities influences the stress distribution in a soil or rock mass.
At this point, there was only the formation of very strong marine clay, which is found all over the world and highly stable, but with its own unique geotechnical problems.
Like topsoil, it is composed of a variable mixture of small particles such as sand, silt and clay, but with a much lower percentage of organic matter and humus.
The Henry's Law constant, sometimes called coefficient, is specific to each compound and depends on the system temperature.
Aleurite is an unconsolidated sediment with a texture intermediately between sand and clay, similar to silt, with particle sizes ranging from 0.01 to 0.1 millimetres (0.00039 to 0.00394 in).
The only cadmium mineral of importance, greenockite (CdS), is nearly always associated with sphalerite (ZnS).
Local topography related tillage erosion is most pronounced in hummocky landscapes with eroded hilltops that often exhibit a light soil color due to the loss of organic-rich topsoil, a phenomenon often mistakenly assumed to be the result of water erosion.
The deformation caused by the foot expands the sand under it and the water in the sand moves to fill the new space between the grains.
It is readily available (bagged, at nursery suppliers), and its formulation generally consists of a combination of wheat straw, dried blood, horse manure and ground chalk, composted together.
Considering specific density of 1.1 ton/m3 confirmed reserves in Armenia amount to 165 million tons.
A rotational slump occurs when a slump block, composed of sediment or rock, slides along a concave-upward slip surface with rotation about an axis parallel to the slope.
Whereas the topsoil tends to be the depth of greatest physical, chemical, and biological activity, the subsoil is the depth of most deposition.
The US Navy report denied any signs of nuclear waste dumping and instead related the traces of uranium to volcanic activity.
Its practical uses include incorporation into paving materials for roads and driveways, residential gardening materials in arid environments, and various types of walkways and heavy-use paths in parks.
Shrub swamp water comes from run-off, streams and rivers and the water moves in and out of the swamp throughout the year.
On 3 June 2020, eight buildings were swept into the sea by a landslide in Kråkneset in Alta Municipality in Norway.
Two workers will usually cooperate on the same strip of the roof, wide enough to be comfortably within reach.
The show follows a team of sand sculptors as they travel to various locales to create elaborate sand structures for their business clients.
House Rock had numerous bullet hole-like marks where micrometeoroids from space had impacted the rock.
Semi-autonomous features, such as grade control and automated digging cycles on excavators, are also becoming common, assisting operators in performing tasks with greater speed and precision.
Most of the tests do not sink as individual particles; about 99% of them are first consumed by some other organism, and are then aggregated and expelled as large fecal pellets, which sink much more quickly and reach the ocean floor in only 10–15 days.
Epichlorohydrin, butylene oxide, N-methylpyrrole and ethyl acetate are common stabilisers for TCE, with epichlorohydrin being the most persistent and effective.
There are many ways to predict frost depth, including factors related to air temperature, soil temperature, and soil properties.
Macroptilium atropurpureum, commonly referred to as purple bush-bean, or siratro is a perennial legume recognized by its climbing, dense, green vines and deep purple flowers.
Military use In military engineering, earthworks are, more specifically, types of fortifications constructed from soil.
Officially, the Soviets announced that "the lunar landing in the complex mountainous conditions proved to be unfavorable." Later, in 1975, the Soviets published data from Luna 18's continuous-wave radio altimeter that determined the mean density of the lunar topsoil.
state soils References USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service State Soils New Jersey (PDF) Archived 2017-05-07 at the Wayback Machine
Therefore, nutrient reabsorption during senescence presents an opportunity for a plant's future net primary production use.
It is surface-mined, immediately sifted and bagged, and supplied in various grades; the deeper-mined grade are somewhat harder and more useful in horticulture than the softer, shallow-mined grades.
As of December 2018, the land was owned by Renshaw Properties, a company registered in the British Virgin Islands.
Oxygen sensors and other gas sensors detect the danger; alarms from the sensors can warn the occupants.
(Ep.12, 13, 16/Joins the team full-time in Season 2) Production crew (additional) Note: Crew members not listed in production infobox above.
Occurrence Silt is a very common material, and it has been estimated that there are a billion trillion trillion (1033) silt grains worldwide.
One of these problems is the determination of soil-water-characteristic curve (also called (water retention curve) and/or capillary pressure curve).
The conditions include the extremes of erosive intense rainfall, ice wedging, as may seasonally occur at opposite ends of the rock-type and regional spectrum.
Finally, in tropical regions, frost line may refer to the vertical geographic elevation below which frost does not occur.
Results from the Lunar Orbiter probes had revealed that lunar gravity varies slightly due to the presence of mass concentrations, or "mascons".
List of Géotechnique Lecturers See also Named lectures Rankine Lecture Terzaghi Lecture External links ICE Géotechnique journal British Geotechnical Association == References ==
In geotechnical engineering, trench investigations locate faults and investigate deep soil properties.
In fact, the primary definition of loam in most dictionaries is soils containing humus (organic content) with no mention of particle size or texture, and this definition is used by many gardeners.
Regions with high frequency wildfires have reduced vegetation density and reduced soil litter accumulation.
An admixture of other natural or synthetic materials can broaden the range of decomposed granite properties.
In coniferous forests and ericaceous heaths, foliage litter can also contain high concentrations of tannins and terpenes.
It was the first soil to go on display when Scientists from the Natural Resources Conservation Service of the USDA, the Soil Science Society of America and others worked with exhibit designers from the Smithsonian Institution on a display of soil monoliths from every state.
Peak of production and decline Deforestation and scarcity The massive production of charcoal (at its height employing hundreds of thousands, mainly in Alpine and neighbouring forests) was a major cause of deforestation, especially in Central Europe.
Other indicators include nitrogen, calcium, potassium, magnesium, iron, copper, and zinc concentrations.
Aftermath and spacecraft locations Following their mission, the crew undertook both domestic and international tours, visiting 29 states and 11 countries.
As the sediments pile up, the deeper parts start to warm up (from geothermal heat), and bacteria get to work breaking down the contained organic matter.
Using Plants To Clean Up Soils — from Agricultural Research magazine New Alchemy Institute — co-founded by John Todd (Canadian biologist)
These active tilth-forming processes contribute to the formation and stabilization of soil structure.
In nontechnical engineering, bearing capacity is the capacity of soil to support the loads applied to the ground.
The goal of mass haul planning is to determine these amounts and the goal of mass haul optimization is to minimize either or both.
Other methods of casting, such as those using shell molds, boast higher quality of surface finish but have a higher cost.
In the Tagus delta, Portugal, the leaching efficiency of the dense clay soil was found as low as 0.10 to 0.15.
Smith Injector - Smith Measuremix injectors are powered by a water motor which is turned when water flows through it and in turn powers the injector pump.
Recent research has reported that terra preta may be of natural origin, suggesting that pre-Columbian people intentionally utilized and improved existing areas of soil fertility scattered among areas of lower fertility.
See also Effective microorganisms Korean natural farming Natural farming Permaculture == References ==
Determination of adequate compaction is done by determining the in-situ density of the soil and comparing it to the maximum density determined by a laboratory test.
Terzaghi's Bearing Capacity Theory Karl von Terzaghi was the first to present a comprehensive theory for the evaluation of the ultimate bearing capacity of rough shallow foundations.
Effects Soil degradation Tillage erosion causes loss of fertile top soil from the eroding portion of the field.
The explosion also opens up a portal into another dimension called the Quarrm Dimension, inhabited by non-corporeal spirits.
Following either approach for the active earth pressure, the depth of tension crack appears to be the same as in the case of zero backfill inclination (see Bell's extension of Rankine's theory).
Flooding and drought, as noted, add to the stress of the site and prevent many species from growing.
Perlite world production, led by China, Turkey, Greece, USA, Armenia and Hungary, summed up to 4.6 million tonnes in 2018.
Keeping wychert well ventilated and not subject to excess condensation is therefore highly recommended.
In geotechnical engineering, a discontinuity (often referred to as a joint) is a plane or surface that marks a change in physical or chemical characteristics in a soil or rock mass.
In addition, injection of hot (dry) air can remove soil moisture and thus improve the gas permeability of the soil.
Phytovolatilization Phytovolatilization is the removal of substances from soil or water with release into the air, as a result of phytotransformation to more volatile and/or less polluting substances.
Patients exposed to dichloroacetylene showed symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, loss of apetite, headache, facial nervous and muscular issues, and formation of herpes-like lesions on the face.
a fitting discontinuity) move relative to each other, under low stress levels that do not cause breaking of the asperities.
Tepetates at the surface are problematic for agriculture, because of their hardness, poor drainage, and poor fertility.
These new enzymes might be of interest for their potential in the chemical modification of steroid substrates.
Since these soils have a very low permeability, dewatering in a traditional sense (gravity flow into an abstraction well) may prove very costly or even futile.
Heavy vertical timbers served as central roof supports: Northern Plains earth lodges almost always had four center posts, while the Pawnees, Omahas, Otoes, and other Central Plains tribes used four, six, eight, ten, or even twelve.
If a sample-return was to be performed, the lander would have taken off then, rendezvous and deliver the surface and subsurface samples to the mothership hovering above (at 50 km) for subsequent delivery to Earth within a reentry capsule.
Clay minerals are predominant over wide areas in the deepest parts of the ocean, and most of this clay is terrestrial in origin.
The circular floor represented the earth and the domed ceiling the sky; the entrance faced east, toward the Morning Star, so that people entered the lodge as stars enter the sky, and the altar on the western side represented the domain of the Evening Star and symbolized creation and renewal.
Sometimes other ingredients may be added to reduce the amount of expensive Portland cement such as pozzolanas and rice husk ash.
Specifically in the hydrology domain, permeability of soil or rock may also be defined as the flux of water under hydrostatic pressure (≈ 0.1 bar/m) at a temperature of 20 °C.
When tepetates lie under the soil, they present a risk for erosion and landslides, because water runs off laterally, rather than being absorbed.
Since the product is proprietary, installation requires a crew trained by the Cast Earth company, leaving it out of reach of do-it-yourself builders.
In the geologic record Sediments containing over 30% gravel that become lithified into solid rock are termed conglomerate.
Bioavailability, chemotaxis, and transport of pollutants Bioavailability, or the amount of a substance that is physiochemically accessible to microorganisms is a key factor in the efficient biodegradation of pollutants.
In Asia, they are found in the mountain ranges east and west of Lake Baikal, and on fringes of the Himalayas, notably in India, Nepal, China and Burma.
In geotechnical engineering and contact mechanics the term asperity is used to refer to individual features of unevenness (roughness) of the surface of a discontinuity, grain, or particle with heights in the range from approximately 0.1 mm to the order of metres.
The OH horizon is composed of humified plant material, resulting from the slow and incomplete process of fungal decomposition.
An alternative theory is that basal till, weakened by high pore water pressure, deformed upwards into parallel basal crevasses a short distance in from the glacial margin.
Another being from Quarrm enters Earth via Quarmer's portal and fuses with a giant Chinese statue of a monster.
Aluandic – Andosols with advanced soil formation containing many complexes of organic substances and aluminium.
Former Montana Governor Brian Schweitzer wrote his master's dissertation on Scobey soil series in which he found that, at the same site, wheat planted on Scobey soil plots consistently produced higher yields than wheat grown on Kevin soil series plots.
Processes Deep wells A deep well typically consists of a borehole fitted with a slotted liner and an electric submersible pump.
This occurs when poor soil aeration limits free oxygen, forcing bacteria to use the oxygen in nitrate for their respiratory process.
Its resistance to earthquake is attributed to the combination of heavy mass (used for thermal insulation) and timber-frame structure.
Sod can be used to repair small, dead or damaged areas of lawn, golf course, or athletic field, and is used as a quicker alternative to re-growing from seed.
Calcium and magnesium are abundant, but potassium content is often low, so nutrient imbalances are common.
During irrigation or rain events, the limited large pore space in fine-textured soils quickly fills with water, reducing soil oxygen levels.
Methods commonly applied are: requirements for double containment of underground storage tanks, registration of hazardous materials usage, reduction in numbers of allowed pesticides and more stringent regulation of fertilizers and herbicides in landscape maintenance.
The regulatory criteria for 1,4-dioxane is constantly changing as more is learned about this contaminant.
Supra-permafrost taliks Due to climate fluctuations or changes, some permafrost regions may develop an unfrozen layer between the seasonal thawing and freezing surface layer and the permafrost.
The engines on the Block D upper stage failed due to an oxidizer leak, leaving the spacecraft to burn up in Earth's atmosphere.
Modern practice often includes spraying the mixture at pressure (a technique called shotcrete) or some other method of driving out trapped air.
The ability of a soil to recover from this type of compaction depends on climate, mineralogy and fauna.
Beneficial Pseudomonas and Bacillus produce fungal suppressing metabolites that break up this migrating fungal hyphae.
See also Desert ecology Pedogenesis Pedology Soil classification Soil science Soil type Calcid References "Aridisols".
I Ching arrives and hypnotizes the two, making them see that their fight would end up destroying Earth.
In the field of hydrogeology, storage properties are physical properties that characterize the capacity of an aquifer to release groundwater.
Whereas POM is thought to be more fragments of plant compounds like phenols, cellulose and fungal derived compounds (chitin) that have not experienced much decomposition.
Design and operation of a SVE system is relatively straightforward, with the major uncertainties having to do with subsurface geology/formation characteristics and the location of contamination.
Ampo is a food made of soil originating from Central Java and East Java, Indonesia and eaten as a snack or light meal.
The planting of perennial crops and bench or contour terracing offer possibilities for permanent agriculture on gentler slopes.
This inspection, alongside tests revealing that the grains were magnetic, led McBride to conclude these grains were pieces of shrapnel.
In Sweden, the 'Stockholm Solution' is an urban tree planting system that uses 30% biochar to support urban forest growth.
The two were knocked unconscious by the resulting impact with the ground but would later regain consciousness.
The most commonly used grade of these fertilizer solutions is UAN 32.0.0 (32%N) known as UN32 or UN-32, which consists of 45% ammonium nitrate, 35% urea and only 20% water.
In the case of upward-flowing water, forces oppose the force of gravity and suspend the soil particle.
She is a peerless acrobat and can paralyze people or temporarily neutralize their bending powers by striking pressure points in a similar fashion to the martial art style of Dim Mak.
Aridisols have a very low concentration of organic matter, reflecting the paucity of vegetative production on these dry soils.
Fech fech (Arabic: فش فش) is a very fine powder caused by the erosion of clay-limestone terrain and it is most commonly found in deserts.
The coefficient of friction μ {\displaystyle \mu } is equal to t a n ( ϕ ′ ) {\displaystyle tan(\phi ')} .
In Orkney these soils were created already in the 12th to 13th centuries, and on some islands in Shetland these methods continued to be used until the 1960s.
Cast Earth can also be installed with a lot less labor than most green alternatives, such as rammed earth.
The mineral products are: Cellulose and hemicellulose undergo fast decomposition by fungi and bacteria, with a half-life of 12–18 days in a temperate climate.
This soil type typically occurs as a discontinuous layer that ranges from a few centimeters to several meters in thickness that covers limestone and dolomite bedrock in karst regions.
Mud from some locations required sand, chopped straw, or other binders such as animal dung to be mixed in with the mud to increase durability and plasticity.
Relative differences in long-term erodibility can be estimated by quantifying the erosion response under similar climatic and topographic conditions with different rock lithology.
Mudcrete is a structural material (employed, for example, as a basecourse in road construction) made by mixing mud (usually marine mud) with sand and concrete/cement.
A soil clod, however, is not a ped but rather a mass of soil that results from mechanical disturbance of the soil such as cultivation.
That is the condition that allows anaerobic digestion and fermentation of any plant or animal matter, which then produces methane.
Sustainable Approach to Low-Grade Bauxite Processing The IB2 process is a French technology developed to enhance the extraction of alumina from bauxite, especially low-grade bauxite.
The equations, which take into account soil cohesion, soil friction, embedment, surcharge, and self-weight, are given below.
The content of sedimentary layers (lithological and biological), their order in the sequence, and geometrical characteristics keep records of the history of the Earth, of past climate, sea-level and environment.
The platform's developer - NPO Lavochkin - stressed that in different configuration, the same bus could be adapted as an orbiter or as a lander.
Soil geography Myakka soils originate from marine deposits and are a key component of Floridian flatwoods.
The Augmented Reality Sandtable (ARES) is an interactive, digital sand table that uses augmented reality (AR) technology to create a 3D battlespace map.
An advantage of using the pedological approach to study shallow water habitat is that soils are studied as a collection of horizons that are linked vertically with depth and horizontally across the subaqueous landscape.
With a shallow topsoil layer and a moderately stony subsoil, stagnogley soil is mainly used for woodland, supporting tree species that thrive well in these conditions, such as the English Oak.
Landforms created by frost heaving Frost heaving creates raised-soil landforms in various geometries, including circles, polygons and stripes, which may be described as palsas in soils that are rich in organic matter, such as peat, or lithalsa in more mineral-rich soils.
The Muses Sea site (Point A) was selected as the landing site, for both first and, if possible, second landings.
The stress-strain relationship levels off when the material stops expanding or contracting, and when interparticle bonds are broken.
The design of the machine and more importantly the wheels and the teeth is very critical in compaction.
Usually solid in earlier uses, in most cases from the 19th century onwards each piece of terracotta is composed of a hollow clay web enclosing a void space or cell.
Gravel is deposited as gravel blankets or bars in stream channels; in alluvial fans; in near-shore marine settings, where the gravel is supplied by streams or erosion along the coast; and in the deltas of swift-flowing streams.
This will also reduce landslides, cave-ins and minimize the risk of explosions of landfill gas (see landfill gas migration).
Many Berkshire soils lack the eluvial (E) horizon characteristic of podzols because they have a history of being cleared for cultivation.
The term MSE is usually used in the US to distinguish it from "Reinforced Earth", a trade name of the Reinforced Earth Company, but elsewhere Reinforced Soil is the generally accepted term.
There are two main types of data, analyzed zircon data (quantifiable data and imagery/descriptive data), and sample (where they extract the zircon grains) data.
When the layers geometry satisfies the conditions of perspective correspondence the correlation line is a straight line.
However, the activities with solvent consumption below a specified threshold are not covered by these minimum requirements.
Mohr–Coulomb failure criterion The Mohr–Coulomb failure criterion represents the linear envelope that is obtained from a plot of the shear strength of a material versus the applied normal stress.
After several months on the Martian surface and after storing the samples collected by the lander and mobile robot, the ascent vehicle will launch from atop the lander and rendezvous with the waiting orbiter.
The successor to the 2013–2022 Decadal Survey, the 2023–2032 Decadal Survey, continued to endorse the SPA sample return concept but recommended it be considered by NASA's Lunar Discovery and Exploration Program rather than New Frontiers.
Management, such as informed crop rotation and soil solarization, can create suppressive soils that naturally suppress pathogens.
It has negative effects on native shrubs, grasses, and young trees by smothering them under its dense vines and not allowing them enough sunlight or soil nutrients to grow.
This transport system is sufficient to supply all of the aerobic respiratory needs of the grass roots and also helps to aerate the surrounding mud.
Thickness of the mollic epipedon ranges from 8 to 20 inches and includes all or part of the Bt horizon.
With the projector and Kinect sensor both facing down on the surface of the sandbox, the projector provides a digital overlay over the sand and the Kinect sensor scans the surface of the map to detect any user gestures inside the boundaries of the sandbox.
The use of charcoal as a smelting fuel has been experiencing a resurgence in South America resulting in severe environmental, social and medical problems.
According to Roman Ghirshman, the first evidence of humans using a form of mortar was at the Mehrgarh of Baluchistan in what is today Pakistan, built of sun-dried bricks in 6500 BC.
The process conditions are a compromise: the ill-effect on the first reaction of the high temperature (around 190 °C (374 °F)) needed for the second is compensated for by conducting the process under high pressure (1.4–1.75 MPa (203–254 psi)), which favors the first reaction.
Nitrogen isotopes Nitrogen was a key target element because the extent and origin of its isotopic variations in Solar System materials were unknown.
They are found, for example, in the central European Central Upland ranges of the Black Forest, Ore Mountains and Eifel in waterlogged places, as well as on the Midvale Ridge in the UK.
Liquefying the clay increased the amount of small silica particles that would be deposited on the surface of the block.
It expresses the quality of the rock mass for slope stability using the Q-slope value, from which long-term stable, reinforcement-free slope angles can be derived.
A medium with a permeability of 1 darcy permits a flow of 1 cm3/s of a fluid with viscosity 1 cP (1 mPa·s) under a pressure gradient of 1 atm/cm acting across an area of 1 cm2.
In Eastern North America The indigenous peoples of North America built substructure mounds for well over a thousand years, starting in the Archaic period and continuing through the Woodland period.
It has been proposed that carbonaceous chondrite matter (in the form of planetesimals or dust) could have brought these complex organic molecules capable of triggering the pre-biotic synthesis of biochemical compounds on the early Earth.
There are large areas of calcareous grassland in northwestern Europe, particularly areas of southern England, such as Salisbury Plain and the North and South Downs.
To assess the impact of air quality, a chemical transport model (WRF-Chem) was employed to simulate and predict the emissions of dust pollution, specifically PM10, from the exposed lakebed.
Bolin appears in The Legend of Korra books Revolution and Endgame, two novels that together adapt the first season of the series.
Molding sand, also known as foundry sand, is a sand that when moistened and compressed or oiled or heated tends to pack well and hold its shape.
Lithalsa is a frost-induced raised land form in permafrost areas with mineral-rich soils, where a perennial ice lens has developed within the soil.
The game sprites are the same as the Carnage game, the only one that does not appear in this game but appear in Carnage is Fred Figglecorn.
Health risks There are risks in the consumption of ampo and clay that is contaminated by animal or human feces; in particular, parasite eggs, such as roundworms, that can stay dormant for years, can present a problem.
In some areas a popular size measured 20 cm × 10 cm × 30 cm (8 by 4 by 12 inches) weighing about 10 kg (25 pounds); in other contexts the size is 25 cm × 10 cm × 36 cm (10 by 4 by 14 inches) weighing about 15 kg (35 pounds).
It is noted, however, that both Mazindrani and Ganjale's and Gnanapragasam's expressions lead to identical active earth pressure values.
Revolving rivers are a surprising, uncommon way of sand pile growth that can be found in a few sands around the world, but has been studied in detail only for one Cuban sand from a place called Santa Teresa (Pinar del Rio province).
To avoid scaling in water cooled heat exchangers, water is treated by lime and or soda ash to remove the water hardness.
Brickearth requires little or no admixture of other materials to render it suitable for the manufacture of 'stock bricks'.
Apollo 15 approached the Moon on July 29, and the lunar orbit insertion (LOI) burn had to be made using the SPS, on the far side of the Moon, out of radio contact with Earth.
The Downer has four soil horizons: Surface layer: dark grayish brown loamy sand Subsurface layer: grayish brown sandy loam Subsoil - upper: yellowish brown gravelly sandy loam Subsoil - lower: yellowish brown sand and coarse sand The Downer Series was established in 1960 in Gloucester County.
After several more orbital corrections, on 11 September, the vehicle began its descent to the lunar surface.
Characteristics Soil Profile of Sassafras Horizon A (Topsoil)- Brown sandy loam: The topsoil is a bit sticky, has a fine-sized subangular blocky structure, has few roots in the soil, and can be acidic.
This fertile surface horizon, called a mollic epipedon, is the defining diagnostic feature of Mollisols.
are the asperities on opposing walls of the discontinuity fitting or non-fitting, or have the asperities been sheared off).
The largest extent of Gleysols is in northern Russia, Siberia, Canada, Alaska, China and Bangladesh.
Soil science Chronosequences used in soil studies consist of sites that have developed over different periods of time with relatively small differences in other soil-forming factors.
There are different types of hardpan, all sharing the general characteristic of being a distinct soil layer that is largely impervious to water.
The superhero Isis was re-introduced in the DC Universe in the weekly comic book 52, in issue #3 (May 2006).
Thus miners for malachite considered their finds to be owing to her blessing, and if they suffered a streak over time not finding any, they suspected they have incurred their wrath.
The underlying principle in the use of the term "soil health" is that soil is not just an inert, lifeless growing medium, which modern intensive farming tends to represent, rather it is a living, dynamic and ever-so-subtly changing whole environment.
Leaching efficiency Owing to irregular distribution of salt in the soil or to irregularity of the soil structure (figure 2), the leaching efficiency (EL) can be different from unity.
The sample would be placed in a small container, launched to Earth, and it would be curated at NASA's Lunar Sample Laboratory Facility.
See also Cope and drag DISAMATIC Foundry sand testing Hand mould Sand casting Sand rammer Ceramsite sand History There is no clear record in history to attribute the first metal casting and use of molding sand, but ancient artefacts and writings allude to a period around 3200 B.C..
Its historical use has been to serve as pasture for domesticated livestock, and was the first tropical pasture improved by breeding.
In soil classification, an Umbrisol is a soil with a dark topsoil and in which organic matter has accumulated within the mineral surface soil—in most cases with low base saturation—to the extent that it significantly affects the behaviour and utilization of the soil.
Dry quicksand is loose sand whose bulk density is reduced by blowing air through it and which yields easily to weight or pressure.
Radiocarbon dating As the mortar hardens, the current atmosphere is encased in the mortar and thus provides a sample for analysis.
Prior to the release of information about its mission, NASA correctly identified that it had been an attempted sample return mission.
Focused recharge occurs where water leaks from surface water sources (rivers, lakes, wadis, wetlands) or land surface depressions, and generally becomes more dominant with aridity.
A second interaction effect, tied to mechanical properties of soil, is the sinking of foundations, worsened by a seismic event.
The first two episodes of the series premiered on June 1, 2011, at 10:00pm, but it was moved to Sundays at 7:00pm EST.
A soil's resistance to fragmentation and crumbling is assessed in the dry state by rubbing the sample.
The term porosity is used in multiple fields including pharmaceutics, ceramics, metallurgy, materials, manufacturing, petrophysics, hydrology, earth sciences, soil mechanics, rock mechanics, and engineering.
In the wet top method, water jets located in the vibrator's tip create an annular space around the vibrator through which stone is introduced from the top.
The trademark was originally held by BEST Energies until their Australian developed production technology and intellectual property was acquired by Pacific Pyrolysis.
See also Agroecology Ecoagriculture Ecological design Ecosystem approach Forest gardening == References ==
commissioned a red mud powder-producing unit at its Lanjigarh refinery in Odisha, India, describing it as the first of its kind in the alumina industry, tackling major environmental hazards.
Concrete blocks are some of the most versatile building products available because of the wide variety of appearances that can be achieved using them.
GIS in environmental contamination is the use of GIS software to map and analyze contaminants on Earth, including soil contamination, water pollution, and air pollution.
There are over 10 known examples of dinosaur remains actually with associated "dropstones", sometimes with as many as 200 clasts.
The structure is described as angular blocky if the faces intersect at relatively sharp angles; as subangular blocky if the faces are a mixture of rounded and plane faces and the corners are mostly rounded.
A number of meteorites have been found in Sweden's Thorsberg quarry, where they sank to the bottom of a shallow sea and were entombed in limestone 470 million years ago.
The introduction of European earthworms in earthworm-free areas improved soil structure and increased to a great extent the productivity of New Zealand pastures.
Former Vertigo editor Axel Alonso hired writer Peter Milligan, best known for his surreal, post-modernist comics such as Rogan Gosh and Shade, the Changing Man, and Madman artist Mike Allred, as the new creative team for X-Force, starting with issue #116.
Description In soil taxonomy, its full description is a "Holdrege silt loam, fine-silty, mixed, mesic, Typic Argiustoll".
External Link Naidu, R., Biswas, B., Willett, I.R., Cribb, J., Singh, B.K., Nathanail, C.P., Coulon, F., Semple, K.T., Jones, K.C., Barclay, A.
For breaking that oath, he ended up in the Empire's gladiator training school, the Maw, where he fought alongside such other warriors as Miek, No-Name the Brood, Korg, and the Hulk.
In "The Malachite Box" collection in general, the Mistress serves as a "magic helper" to the characters, and in "The Malachite Casket" in particular, the beggar woman (or "sorceress") who comes visit to instruct Tanyushka is evidently the Mistress of the Copper Mountain in disguise.
Clay-based subsoil has been the primary source of material for adobe, cob, rammed earth, wattle and daub, and other earthen construction methods for millennia.
However, in case the ongoing discussions under the Carcinogens Directive will result in setting of a binding Occupational Exposure Limit for trichloroethylene for protection of workers; this conclusion may be revisited.
A fertilizer injector is a piece of farming equipment used by farmers to reduce labor when fertilizing a large number of crops.
Such technical classifications are developed with specific applications in mind, such as soil-water relationships, land quality assessment or geotechnical engineering.
This combination can help loosen clay particles bound into a hardpan by the actions of hard salts such as iron, calcium carbonate and sodium, by promoting their mobility through a higher pH while proving a suitable source of exchanging minerals (the gypsum).
This forced a wait of a month or two for Hayabusa to stabilize by conversion of precession to pure rotation, after which the rotation axis needed to be directed toward the Sun and Earth within a specific angular range.
The current mission architecture envisions two launches around 2028 by the Long March 5 carrier rocket.
In figure 3, leaching curves are shown for different leaching efficiencies, as assumed in the leaching model SaltMod with data from the Mashtul pilot area.
Biological nitrogen fixation Biological nitrogen fixation (BNF, performed by the organisms called diazotrophs) is a very old process that probably originated in the Archean eon when the primitive atmosphere lacked oxygen.
Coulomb's friction hypothesis is used to determine the combination of shear and normal stress that will cause a fracture of the material.
It is found in central and eastern Missouri and west-central and southwestern Illinois on upland ridgetops, backslopes, and benches adjacent to the Missouri and Mississippi rivers and their major tributaries.
It is a useful and necessary term because, especially when initially found in archaeological excavation, it may be difficult to distinguish, for example, fragments of bricks from fragments of roofing or flooring tiles.
Netallophytes are the basis of phytomining, a proposed technology for collecting valuable metals without excavating.
In popular culture Quicksand is a trope of adventure fiction, particularly in film, where it is typically and unrealistically depicted with a suction effect that causes anyone or anything that walks into it to sink until fully submerged and risk drowning.
As for other proteins clay particles absorb the enzymes exuded by microbes, decreasing enzyme activity while protecting extracellular enzymes from degradation.
Applications of Hyperaccumulators Phytoremediation Hyperaccumulating plants are of interest in the context of phytoremediation: to detoxify contaminated soils.
Physically moving soil from accumulation areas (e.g., depressions) to the eroding portion of the field (e.g., hilltops), a practice termed soil landscape restoration, can mitigate the impact of tillage erosion by restoring soil productivity at the eroding portion of the field.
At Station 9, an area known as the "Vacant Lot", which was believed to be free of ejecta from South Ray, they spent about 40 minutes gathering samples.
As a mineral groundcover its benefits include erosion control, water conservation, weed suppression, and aesthetics.
These instruments would be operated during the approach, hovering and descent phases for science purpose, for landing site selection and for spacecraft safety during near-surface manoeuvres.
A Psamment has no distinct soil horizons, and must consist entirely of material of loamy sand or coarser in texture.
Daisy Johnson appeared as a main character in Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., the first television series in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, portrayed by Chloe Bennet.
The genome sequence revealed about two dozen gene clusters (including several paralogs) coding for a complex catabolic network for anaerobic and aerobic degradation of aromatic compounds.
Also, the value of a specific yield may not be fully realized for a very long time due to complications caused by unsaturated flow.
In Minoan Crete, at the Knossos site, there is archaeological evidence that sun-dried bricks were used in the Neolithic period (prior to 3400 BCE).
This works because gypsum salts, although not "soft", are still water permeable and have a larger, more open structure, the results of which do not promote as hard a matrix as was replaced.
They are often referred to as skeletal soils or, in the United Nations FAO soil classification, as lithosols.
The swelling can cause structures to heave or lift, and the shrinking can uneven settling of sediment underneath foundations, potentially causing the structure to fail.
Damage is quite often caused by differential swelling which is caused by pockets of wet soil situated right next to dry soil.
They are bounded by flat or slightly rounded surfaces that are casts of the faces of surrounding peds.
First described in 1917 in Phelps County, Nebraska, the soil has a significant role in corn, grain and soy farming.
It was made popular during the late nineteenth century, and had by 1930 became more popular than lime mortar as construction material.
Biological The preferred scenario for good tilth is as the result of natural soil-building processes, provided by the activity of plant roots, microorganisms, earthworms and other beneficial organisms.
Recently, these properties have been also determined using remote sensing data derived from Interferometric synthetic-aperture radar.
Once on the screen, combined raking and sifting machines use the same technology as normal sifters to remove unwanted debris from the sand.
The diffusion can be accelerated and intensified by upwelling, such as the motion from turbulent eddies, and cooling processes.
Once a robotic arm selects and retrieves the samples (mass about 0.2 kilograms (0.44 lb)), a small rocket in the top of the lander would blast the ascent vehicle for rendezvous and docking with the orbiter for the soil sample transfer into the return vehicle.
Aunt Wu (voiced by Tsai Chin) was an elderly citizen of Makapu Village who worked as a fortune teller.
In this iteration, she shares a connection with Captain Marvel/Shazam, as both characters draw their powers from divine sources.
Following the use of the Shadow Reflector by the sorcerer Lagen in the Slayers Special story "Mirror, Mirror", there is also a copy of Naga called Shadow Naga that does have her skills, but has a completely opposite personality (a shy, meek and extremely modest girl).
Another environmental issue is the disposal of waste through the water flux such as dairy farms, industrial, and urban runoff.
He was persistent in studying these results and eventually isolated cadmium metal by roasting and reducing the sulfide.
Recent research has highlighted the significant influence of compaction conditions on the mechanical behaviour of soils used in engineering applications.
atropurpureum is often found by roadsides, in vegetation around waterways and coastal regions, and on disturbed ground.
In February 2025, the recommended mission themes for New Frontiers program mission 5 were revised, with the SPA basin lunar sample return concept proposed to no longer be eligible.
The extension owes a great deal to Nicholas Ambraseys whose doctoral thesis on the seismic stability of earth dams at Imperial College London in 1958 formed the basis of the method.
Block slumps are a type of translational slump in which one or more related block units move downslope as a relatively coherent mass.
Charlottetown soil series is the name given to a deep fine sandy loam soil which has developed under forest vegetation on glacial till.
The temporal nature of LS is time-transgressive, meaning that initiation and peak rates of deposition can take place at different times within a fluvial system, as well as at different times between regions.
Because this assumption cannot always be tested for environmental study sites, the use of chronosequences in field successional studies has recently been debated.
The Avatar agreed to surrender to the Red Lotus in exchange for the Air Nation, who were being held captive by the Red Lotus.
They may be somewhat more resistant to common diseases and most generally prefer cool, shadier climates.
As in the case of Andacollo in Chile some technosols are created on purpose to cover up wastes such as mine tailings.
Prior to the canal age, it had been used to line pits for tanning, and by Dutch drainage engineers in the Fens.
Sand particles are the largest at 2 to 0.05 millimetres (0.0787 to 0.0020 in) in diameter and clay the smallest at less than 0.002 millimetres (7.9×10−5 in) in diameter.
Meyerhof (1951, 1963) proposed a bearing-capacity equation similar to that of Terzaghi's but included a shape factor s-q with the depth term Nq.
Differing concepts of pedogenesis, and differences in the significance of morphological features to various land uses can affect the classification approach.
The crew could not tell where it was coming from, and the issue had the potential to become serious.
It is one of a range of different soil moisture regimes, such as: aquic moisture regime, aridic moisture regime, udic moisture regime and xeric moisture regime.
A Technosol in the World Reference Base for Soil Resources is a Reference Soil Group that combines soils whose properties and pedogenesis are dominated by their technical origin.
Adrianna Tomaz's abilities As an ordinary human, Adrianna demonstrates proficiency in diplomacy, politics, and leadership whose progressive ideals improved the welfare of Kahndaq and whose popularity exceeded her younger brother as a leader.
Potassium fixation often occurs when soils dry and the potassium is bonded between layers of 2:1 expansive clay minerals such as illite, vermiculite or montmorillonite.
The coal, typically referred to in as sea-coal, which is present at a ratio of less than 5%, partially combusts in the surface of the molten metal, leading to the offgassing of organic vapors.
For example, in northwestern Europe anthrosols commonly have plaggic or terric (strongly affected by manure) horizons, and together they cover some 500,000 hectares.
Therefore, the organic gardener must be careful regarding the sourcing of mushroom compost; if in doubt, samples can be analyzed for contamination – in the UK, the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs is able to advise regarding this issue.
See also Coarse woody debris Detritus Forest floor Leaf litter sieve Leaf mold (a type of compost) Soil horizon References External links forestresearch.gov.uk
Building codes Building codes take frost depth into account because of frost heaving, which can damage buildings by moving their foundations.
Although not sterile, subsoil is relatively barren in terms of soil organisms compared to humus-rich topsoil.
Popular Korean cartoonist Derek Kirk Kim reacted to the film's casting by comparing it to a hypothetical film which depicts white actors wearing traditional African clothing and eating traditional African food in traditional African huts.
Web series Daisy Johnson / Quake appears in Marvel Rising: Initiation, voiced again by Chloe Bennet.
He broke this vow when the Emperor ordered Hiroim to kill his adolescent son, due to the belief that he would bring ruin and devastation to Sakaar.
Cord wood generally needs to be "seasoned" or "dry" before it can be burned cleanly and efficiently.
Plant habitat The plant life that grows on the Seitz soil consists of an Engelmann spruce/subalpine fir or Rocky Mountain Douglas-fir canopy with a sparse understory of grasses, forbs, and shrubs.
A discontinuity can be, for example, a bedding, schistosity, foliation, joint, cleavage, fracture, fissure, crack, or fault plane.
This solar-powered vehicle was designed to take advantage of Itokawa's very low gravity by using an internal flywheel assembly to hop across the surface of the asteroid, relaying images from its cameras to Hayabusa whenever the two spacecraft were in sight of one another.
As soon as the volume change results in a state of maximum void, the mobilised dilatancy angle, ψ m {\displaystyle \psi _{m}} , is automatically set back to zero.
See also Anthrepts from a different soil classification system Necrosol Technosols Terra preta Pre-Columbian agriculture in the Amazon Basin References Further reading Howard, J.
In the Caesalpinioideae, the flowers are often zygomorphic, as in Cercis, or nearly symmetrical with five equal petals, as in Bauhinia.
The nascent carbon trading market that sponsors CO2 sequestration projects could therefore help supplement the farmers' income while supporting a decrease in the pace of deforestation and the development of a more sustainable agriculture.
Researchers also discovered trace amounts of iron and glass beads in the sand, originating from the intense heat unleashed by munitions explosions in the air and sand.
The carbon in urea is described as sp2 hybridized, the C−N bonds have significant double bond character, and the carbonyl oxygen is relatively basic.
For example, after many experiments one batch of sand may stop showing revolving rivers (just as singing sand eventually stops singing), which suggests that the decay is connected to certain properties of the surface of the grains that degrade by continued friction.
While it can negatively affect some organisms by removing shoreline vegetation, the rock can provide important refuge for invertebrates and small fish.
It grows most actively, and thus provides the most desirable appearance, in spring and fall, and requires moderate watering during summer.
The spectrometer was also designed to detect far-UV radiation emitted by the Sun that had been reflected off the lunar surface.
It results in the creation of biochar, which can then be mixed with biomass such as crop residues, food waste, or manure and buried in the soil to bring about the formation of terra preta.
During Volume 5 of the light novels, it is hinted that Megumin begins developing romantic feelings for him and vice versa.
The soil series has an extent of 367,853 acres (148,865 ha), primarily in northern and central Nevada, and extending into southern Idaho and Oregon.
If selected for development, the mission would have launched in 2024, cruise to the comet would take 7 years, including two Earth gravity assists.
To try and prevent thixotropy from fracturing the sustainability of the concrete, catatonic polymer began to be used in order to counteract the thixotropy, however this agent is needed in order to allow the mixing of the clay and cementitious material.
When deployed properly and in combination with other permaculture principles, it can generate healthy, productive, and low maintenance ecosystems.
Further weathering yields material that easily crumbles into gravel-sized particles known as "grus", which may then break down further to produce a mixture of clay and silica sand or silt particles.
A chief task in beach cleaning strategies is finding the best way to handle waste matter on the beaches, taking into consideration beach erosion and changing terrain.
EXZIT, as zodiacal light gets significantly weak beyond the asteroid belt, would have enabled the telescope to observe the cosmic infrared background.
dams and reservoirs within upland regions, sediment detention basins) or reduce the river channel's physical complexity (e.g.
If unsuitable material is left in place and backfilled, it may compress over a long period under the weight of the earth fill, causing settlement cracks in the fill or in any structure supported by the fill.
These abilities have to usually be taught to him by other characters before he can use them, and he cannot learn advanced skills.
He sent most of his earnings to his family, unaware that his manager, Alex Cuspin, was embezzling them.
Green rust, a layered double hydroxide (LDH) of Fe(II) and Fe(III) can be found as the mineral fougerite in gleysoils.
The match against Oxford Universities in 2000 (which included Oxford Brookes University) is included here in the Oxford University totals.
The Rochester Raiders won a perfect season in 2008 in the Continental Indoor Football League, but withdrew from that league during the playoffs in a dispute.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international rugby union, rugby sevens, rugby league and wheelchair rugby tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
After Sri Lanka awarded Test status on 17 February 1982 as eighth Test playing nation, they had to wait until 6 September 1985, where Sri Lanka recorded their first Test win by beating India, in the second match of the series by 149 runs at the P Sara Oval, Colombo.
Long course (50m) Men Women Mixed relay Short course (25m) Men Women Notes References General Bermudian Long Course records 26 January 2026 updated Bermudian Short Course records 30 November 2025 updated Specific External links Bermuda Amateur Swimming Association website BASA records subpage
Natural track events All competitive disciplines *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
The Buffalo Sabres have the longest active playoff series win drought at 18 seasons and also formerly had the longest active post-season appearance drought at 14 seasons, which is now held by the Detroit Red Wings at 10 seasons.
Skaters usually begin rotating the jump as soon as they leave the ice, but generally have less than two-thirds of a second to complete their rotation.
This article lists all-time records for the National Lacrosse League, as well as the predecessors Major Indoor Lacrosse League and Eagle Pro Box Lacrosse League.
The Canadian Junior Open is divided into eight categories — Boys Under-19, Boys Under-17, Boys Under-15, Boys Under-13, Girls Under-19, Girls Under-17, Girls Under-15 and Girls Under-13.
If the number of gold medals is identical, the silver and bronze medals are used as tie-breakers (in that order).
Olympic medalists Amateur Era 1896 1900 1904 1908 Outdoor Indoor 1912 Outdoor Indoor 1920 1924 Open Era 1988 1992 1996 2000 2004 2008 2012 2016 2020 2024 Athlete medal leaders Players currently active in bold.
They are ordered by their seating capacity, that is the maximum number of spectators that the stadium can accommodate in seated areas.
The following are the national records in athletics in the Dominican Republic maintained by Federación Dominicana de Asociaciones de Atletismo (FDAA).
Some clubs will only have black and white, others will include a brown belt for advanced kyū grades and at the elementary school level it is common to see a green belt for intermediate levels.
The Boston Celtics hold the longest consecutive NBA Finals appearance streak with ten appearances between 1957 and 1966.
Despite being considered an example of flawed technique, it is not currently penalised by the technical panel.
Older than Genoa and Torino is Associazione Sportiva Dilettantistica Fanfulla, a sports club founded in Lodi in 1873, but its football section was established thirty-five years later in 1908.
The system is designed to be both predictive and retrodictive in nature, although in practice it has proven to be more strongly predictive than retrodictive.
Elo's original K-factor estimation was made without the benefit of huge databases and statistical evidence.
This is a list of current women's professional boxing rankings, which includes the latest rankings by each one of the sport's four major sanctioning bodies, as well as other well-regarded sites and entities.
Hines went on to win the 1968 Olympic final in 9.9 seconds, rounded down from his FAT of 9.95, making it the first non-wind-assisted electronic sub-10-second performance.
In some forms of one-day cricket, such as Twenty20, a Super Over or a bowl-out is used as a tiebreaker to decide a result that would otherwise be a tie.
Organization These records have been registered in the official competitions organized by the different federations which have managed this sport at a mondial level, across the time (ISS, FISV, FIS, ...).
Sent to the Kentucky Derby, the colt fractured a pastern in his right foreleg during the race and finished sixteenth.
FIDE awarded Sultan Khan the Honorary Grandmaster title on February 2, 2024, almost 58 years after his death and over 120 years after his birth in 1903.
A winning team therefore always earns more points than its initial rating, increasing its overall average rating.
Stud record Retired to stud duty, Vanlandingham met with modest success as the sire of 151 winners of 508 races.
The following are the national records in athletics in Slovakia maintained by its national athletics federation: Slovak Athletic Federation (SAZ).
Three-point field goal percentage and free throw percentage are usually kept as additional statistics.
Calvin Smith recorded a world record of 9.93 seconds in Colorado Springs, Colorado on 3 July 1983, at altitude, and became the first sprinter to run under ten seconds twice, in August that year.
Indoor volleyball, beach volleyball and sitting volleyball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Since the first round of the playoffs normally consists of eight series, there will always be sixteen teams on this list (of the thirty-two teams in the NHL).
In motion picture venues, the "limit of seating capacity is determined by the maximal viewing distance for a given size of screen", with image quality for closer viewers declining as the screen is expanded to accommodate more distant viewers.
Defensive rating or defensive efficiency is a statistic used in basketball to measure an individual player's or team's efficiency at preventing the other team from scoring points.
Results from before 2017, during which FIBA Asia and FIBA Oceania held separate championships, will continue to figure into the rankings (until 2025 via "time decay").
b The Bears were named the NFL Champions in 1932 after winning an unofficial playoff game played indoors due to extremely cold weather.
The three longest championship droughts in history were ended recently by the Red Sox (85 seasons, ending in 2004), the White Sox (87 seasons, ending in 2005), and the Cubs (107 seasons, ending in 2016).
vs Edmonton, Oct 12, 1991) 561 – Sam Etcheverry (for Montreal vs Hamilton, Sept 29, 1956) 558 – Kent Austin (for Saskatchewan vs B.C., Aug.
The IBJJF requires a practitioner remain a purple belt for a minimum of 18 months prior to achieving a brown belt.
Among the current 32 NHL teams, ten have never won the Stanley Cup, with the oldest of them being the Vancouver Canucks and the Buffalo Sabres (53 seasons).
Stats Perform (formerly STATS, LLC and STATS, Inc.) is a British sports AI company formed through the merger of Stats and Perform.
Sportradar will also use its integrity services to monitor betting on all NFL games and will have the right to distribute live audio-visual feeds of NFL games to sportsbooks in certain international markets.
Polls do not play a role in determining CFP participants; instead, these teams are chosen by a selection committee similar to that used in the NCAA basketball tournament selection process.
This is a list of the oldest documented football competitions, played at school, club, national and international levels.
The awards include the Sir Garfield Sobers Trophy for Cricketer of the Year, which is considered the most prestigious award in world cricket.ICC Sponsors As indicated by the logo of these awards, LG, a leading electronic brand, sponsored these awards along with other ICC sponsors.
Also, Bangladesh took 4 years and 2 months from the date of first Test to win a Test, best to only New Zealand, South Africa and India.
1982–83 European Cup After rioting by fans in a semifinal at Anderlecht in Belgium the previous April, Aston Villa were forced to begin their defence of the European Cup at an empty Villa Park in a September 1982 first round match, with the match kicking off at 2:30 pm on a Wednesday afternoon.
Spectator sports have built their own set of culture and traditions including, in the United States, cheerleading, team mascots, and pre-game and half time entertainment such as fireworks, particularly for big games such as competition decider events and international tests.
The following represents the golfers who have won five or more tournaments in a season on the European Tour.
This list includes all of the leaders in total rebounding of each full season (the regular season + the playoffs combined) of the Greek Basketball League (GBL), starting with the 1986–87 season.
Peng Cheng from China won two silver medals and one bronze medal: one silver medal partnered with Zhang Hao (2015) and another silver medal and one bronze medal partnered with Jin Yang (2019–2020).
GTG – Game-tying goals – Number of game-tying goals (that is, the last goal scored in a tie game) the player has scored.
Every single one of these lists are assembled by a committee but since the 90s, other parties have experimented with computerized rankings, but these are sometimes regarded as incapable of accounting for all of boxing's quirks and subtleties.
Men Key to tables: Awaiting ratification Not ratified or later rescinded by ICF Record not kept by ICF Women Mixed References External links World best times 26 August 2025 updated
They are ordered by seating capacity, the maximum number of spectators the stadium can accommodate in baseball configuration.
The match in 2008 against Cambridge University UCCE is included here in the Cambridge University totals.
Notes and references External links World Skate Europe Rink Hockey (official website) rinkhockey.net
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international field hockey and indoor field hockey tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
The former governing body for the trampoline, the International Trampoline Federation (FIT), incorporated into the FIG in 1998, also organized World Age Groups competitions from 1973 to 1996.
This is a list of countries according to the best position achieved by athletes of these nations at major world tournaments in roller hockey.
Through the 2001 iteration of the ESPY Awards, ceremonies were conducted in February of each year to honor achievements over the previous calendar year; awards presented thereafter are conferred in June and reflect performance from the June previous.
If all numbers are the same, the teams receive the same placement and are sorted in alphabetical order by the female partner's last name.
The Bryans have retained a record seven different tournaments, except Rome and Canada, on a record ten occasions.
Green (November 23, 2014) 3 – Eric Rogers (November 18, 2018) 3 – Kenny Lawler (November 9, 2024) Most interception return touchdowns, career playoffs 2 – Tony Golab 2 – Marvin Coleman 2 – Glenn Rogers Jr.
This list includes all of the top scorers of each full season (the regular season and the playoffs combined) of the amateur status Greek Basketball Championship, from when the league first added a playoffs round, following the conclusion of the 1986–87 regular season.
Records can be set by registered competitors in the open category, as well as in youth and masters age groups.
This chart uses the hit totals that Major League Baseball officially recognizes, as maintained and provided by the Elias Sports Bureau; they are derived from the annual official league statistics, even when those totals have been proven by later research to be in error.
Cycling Cross-country In the 2017 season the Swiss mountain biker Nino Schurter won 6 out of 6 races and additionally at the World Championships he won the gold medal at the single and at the mixed race and the Cape Epic.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international water polo tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
In fourth place, breaking his own European record of 9.97 seconds, was Linford Christie with a time of 9.92 seconds.
Solving method Thai's solution was based on The Ideal Solution, published in 1980 by the Ideal Toy Company.
The International Weightlifting Federation restructured its weight classes in 2018, nullifying earlier records and again in 2025.
If the total number of medals is identical, the gold, silver and bronze medals are used as tie-breakers (in that order).
The rating points of each game (above) are weighted by the game's weight (W), which is the product of the time decay, competition/region, competition stage, and round weights, as follows.
In April 2019, Vista Equity Partners announced its intent to acquire Perform Content, the former sports data subsidiary of Perform Group.
If p A + p B = 1 {\displaystyle p_{A}+p_{B}=1} , Log5 will give A a ( p A ) 2 / ( ( p A ) 2 + ( p B ) 2 ) {\displaystyle (p_{A})^{2}/((p_{A})^{2}+(p_{B})^{2})} chance of victory.
Most gold stars Gold stars (kinboshi) are awarded to maegashira ranked wrestlers who defeat a yokozuna.
These are indicated with various systems of coloured belts, with the black belt indicating a practitioner who has attained a certain level of competence.
The first was set on 15 December 2014, in Carson, California, with a distance of 44.173 km (27.448 mi).
All-time leading scorers in total points scored Counting all games played through the end of EuroBasket 2025, and not counting qualification games.
The conference has been sold out every year and has become the premier venue for sports analytics discussion.
In cricket, a bowling analysis (sometimes shortened to just analysis, especially in the phrase innings analysis, and also referred to as bowling figures) usually refers to a notation summarising a bowler's performance.
In tennis, the ATP Masters is an annual series of nine top-level tennis tournaments featuring the elite men's tennis players on the ATP Tour.
List of largest association football clubs List of largest Australian rules football clubs See also Sports club List of fan-owned sports teams References "Instagram".
Stud record After his racing career, Adios Butler was retired to stud at Fair Chance Farms in Washington Court House, Ohio.
The following are the national records in athletics in Iraq maintained by Iraqi Amateur Athletic Federation (IAAF).
{\displaystyle p_{B,P}={\frac {p_{B}\times p_{P}\times (1-p_{L})}{(p_{B}\times p_{P})-(p_{L}\times p_{B})-(p_{L}\times p_{P})+p_{L}}}.} == References ==
These records do not include results from a team's playing time in the National Association of Professional Base Ball Players or while members of any minor league.
Gary Anderson holds the record for highest Professional Darts Corporation live streamed match average (123.83), at Players Championship 15 in 2024.
The International Rules also allow for recognition of a record swimming time in the first lap of a relay race or an immediate distance as part of a longer swimming distance.
Current records Men Women Historical records Men (1998–2018) Women (1998–2018) References External links Marshall Islands Weightlifting Federation official website
Alex Rodriguez, Cristiano Ronaldo, Stephen Strasburg, Manny Machado, Deshaun Watson, Stephen Curry, and Giannis Antetokounmpo are on the list two times each.
Results from two major judo world tournaments approved by the International Judo Federation were taken into account: the World Judo Championships and the judo tournament at the Summer Olympic Games.
Individual statistics GP – Games played – Number of games the player has set foot on the ice in the current season.
Despite many video games using different systems for matchmaking, it is common for players of ranked video games to refer to all matchmaking ratings as Elo.
Basketball and 3x3 basketball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
World records See also Jeff Varasano, unofficial Rubik's Cube United States record holder in 1981 References External links The first world championship Rubik Books Video at YouTube : Minh Thai's 1st World Record Rubik's Cube championship 1982
Summary against each opponent In the following table the County Championship summary is limited to matches played from 1891.
Chicago Blackhawks (NHL) In 2009 the Chicago Blackhawks turned to an outside company to produce analytical assessments for them.
They are the best results set in competition by athletes aged 13 to 17 throughout the entire calendar year of the performance.
Olympics Sports Reference added a site for Olympic Games statistics and history in July 2008, including statistics from the first games to the most recent.
Records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts by the Saudi Arabian Weightlifting Federation.
As of March 19, 2022, Bangladesh have played 409 ODI matches, winning 148 matches and losing 252 and 9 matches had no result.
CFL attendance has been depressed during the middle of the 2010s by short-term issues, most notably the lack of stadium availability in Toronto and Hamilton.
Juggling world records comprise the best performances in the fields of endurance and numbers juggling.
The term was coined in a 2014 article by sportswriter Jon Bois for American football scores in the National Football League (NFL), and is primarily used in this context; it has also been applied sparingly across other sports leagues.
Attendance in the 30,000 range was once quite common for major international matches held outdoors in the 1940s and 50s in Moscow's Lenin Stadium.
The European Athletics Indoor Cup, held from 2003 to 2008, is the highest level indoor track and field competition to have used a placing table system.
Mosaic Stadium was constructed to house the Saskatchewan Roughriders while BMO Field in Toronto, originally built for Toronto FC of Major League Soccer, was renovated to accommodate the Toronto Argonauts.
Amongst defunct franchises, the Chicago Stags have the highest win–loss record percentage, with (.612).
Wherever World Standard appears in the list below, no qualified weightlifter has yet lifted these weights in a sanctioned competition.
Notts are thought to have mostly played under Sheffield Rules in their early days, though certain matches are recorded as being played according to "Nottingham Rules".
Other early sporting bodies dedicated to playing football include "The Gymnastic Society" of London which met regularly during the second half of the eighteenth century to pursue two sports: football and wrestling.
BASA keeps records for both for males and females, for long course (50m) and short course (25m) events.
In November 2020, Sportradar announced extending its I&I capabilities to specifically supporting more US clients.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international luge tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
When Daniel Bigham rode 54.723 km (34.003 mi) to break Wiggins's British national record on 1 October 2021 he was ineligible to attempt the UCI record as he was not part of the anti-doping system, estimating it would cost him £8,000.
See also Jim McKay Turf Sprint Pimlico Race Course List of graded stakes at Pimlico Race Course == References ==
The World's Longest Basketball Game held from August 6 to 11, 2021, which doubles as a charity event for Western New York mental health organizations, surpassed the record set by the Philippine basketball game.
Antonis Nikopolidis is second on the list and the only Greek player to have celebrated 11 leagues: 5 with Panathinaikos and 6 with Olympiacos.
Records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts by the Marshall Islands Weightlifting Federation (AWF).
Five franchises have never been to the NBA Finals, tied with the National Hockey League for the highest number among the major North American sports.
Though, in the period of Bangladesh team broken that record to stay winless for 47 matches in row, which consisted of the current world record of 23 straight losses from 1999 to 2002.
Background Sired by the Standardbred Adios and out of a broodmare named Debby Hanover, Adios Butler was trained by Paige West and driven by Clint Hodgins in 1959.
Its purpose is to analyse Premier League football matches and was contracted by Sky Sports for their television broadcasts of the 1996–97 season.
WNBA Finals appearance droughts a The Dallas Wings last appeared in the 2008 WNBA Finals as the Detroit Shock.
Beginners remain at white belt, and gray, yellow, or orange belts either revert back to white or can be promoted to blue belt at the professor's discretion.
The ten charter members of Major League Soccer were all new clubs created shortly before the league began play in 1996.
Titles won by country Note: Titles, won by a team of players from same country, count as one title, not two.
It specifies, "For areas having fixed seating without dividing arms, the occupant load shall not be less than the number of seats based on one person for each 18 inches (457 mm) of seating length".
Meanwhile, the 7th-place through 10th-place teams in the two conferences enter a NBA play-in tournament, introduced during the 2020 NBA Bubble, to determine their playoffs seeding.
Teams may elect to play more aggressively due to conditions or with the aim of increasing their net run rate in the event a tiebreaker is required for further qualification within a tournament but these attempts may instead cause a team to give away their wickets making overly aggressive shots.
A number of world records and Olympic records were set in various events at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London.
The following are the national records in athletics in the Cayman Islands maintained by Cayman Island's national athletics federation: Cayman Islands Athletic Association (CIAA).
The Washington Capitals played the Chicago Blackhawks outdoors in the Winter Classic at Nationals Park in Washington, D.C.
The world record progression of the men's team sprint as recognised by the International Skating Union: Team sprint was first introduced on the calendar of the 2015-16 World Cup.
During the finals of ranking tournaments, only games played by a host team in its own country count as "home" games; all others are treated as neutral-site games.
ESPN has been the presenting sponsor since 2010, and the conference has garnered national attention through media outlets such as Sports Illustrated, The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, The Boston Globe, Time, BusinessWeek, NBC Sports, Fox Sports, Pardon the Interruption, and Forbes.
For most events, an average of five is taken, but for 6x6x6, 7x7x7, 3x3x3 fewest moves, 4x4x4 blindfolded and 5x5x5 blindfolded, a mean of three is taken.
See also World and Paralympic records set at the 2016 Summer Paralympics World and Olympic records set at the 2024 Summer Olympics Notes == References ==
All-time streaks WNBA Playoffs appearance streaks Appearance streaks updated through the 2025 playoffs.
1941 — All three jumps on 2 March in Planica in this chronological order; Lahr (111 m), Krauß (112 m) and Mair (109 m with touch) were false claimed as world records.
This is a listing of the horses that finished in either first, second, or third place and the number of starters in the Dinner Party Stakes, at Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore, Maryland, an American grade 2 thoroughbred horse race run at 1-1/8 miles on the turf.
^5 The IWF website still lists Tatiana Kachirina's records of 155 kg in the snatch, 193 kg in the clean and jerk and 348 kg in total, who was later disqualified for doping.
They have worked with the K League, World Rally Championship, and Borussia Dortmund, to deliver their OTT platforms.
The average is calculated from the highest points scored for this number of events over the past 52 weeks: Current world ranking Note: The weekly ranking for the men's squash (world ranking) is taken directly from the Professional Squash Association (PSA) official website.
By 1976, six other men had equalled the 9.9 hand-timed record, though none of their performances had an FAT mark.
The fastest times in the swimming events at the Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games are designated as the AIMAG records in swimming.
Rugby union, rugby sevens, rugby league and wheelchair rugby *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Continuous clubs Supported by the Guinness Book of Records, and founded by staff at Guy's Hospital in London in 1843, the Guy's, Kings and St Thomas' RFC would be the oldest "football" club of any code.
GF – Goals for – Number of goals the team has scored GA – Goals against – Number of goals scored against the team OTW – Overtime Win SOW – Shoot Out Win ROW – Regulation plus Overtime Wins, not including shootouts.
Individual sport *Sports (and classes, disciplines or forms of a sport) shown in bold are currently on the program of the Olympic Games.
The points earned by a winning team increases as the initial rating (quality) of the opposition increases, within the constraints of earning at least its own initial rating + 10, and no more than its own initial rating + 90.
Jozef Sabovčík's attempted quadruple toe loop at the 1986 European Championships was better and it helped him to win gold medal, but it was not recognized either, although it is regularly mentioned as the inventor of a quadruple jump in Czech or Slovak language media.
Indoor Men Women References General World Athletics Statistic Handbook 2022: National Outdoor Records World Athletics Statistic Handbook 2022: National Indoor Records OAA: National Records Oceania 5 November 2020 updated Specific == External links ==
World Skate Europe league ranking The coefficients of the league ranking take into account the performance of each association's representative teams in European competitions between the past four seasons.
In 2019, Bangladesh won the first multi-team international tournament when they defeated West Indies in the final at Malahide Cricket Club Ground, Dublin.
Each winner is selected by a national panel of sports information and media relations directors, broadcasters, writers, and other dignitaries.
Progress to top division The table for the fastest progress shows wrestlers with the fewest tournaments from their professional debut to their top division debut since the six tournaments a year system was introduced in 1958.
On March 25, 1988, at the 1988 World Championships in Budapest, Hungary, Canadian skater Kurt Browning landed the first ratified quadruple jump (a quadruple toe loop) in competition (with three turns on the landing).
As of 2022, the IBJJF allows coaches to ignore this minimum time-requirement if the practitioner has won an adult world championship at purple belt.
Quads require an average rotational frequency of around 340 rpm, with the peak rotational frequency usually exceeding 400 rpm.
Women's national teams ranking As the men's ranking, the unofficial women's ranking is also calculated by using the Elo rating system.
In fact, one study of European association football matches using a Monte Carlo methodology found that once ability was accounted for, a team was actually slightly less likely to win or lose when it had experienced the same result in the previous match.
The Buffalo Bills, Detroit Lions and Miami Heat entered the top 50, replacing the Boston Red Sox, New Orleans Saints, Dallas Mavericks, Manchester City, Bayern Munich and Paris Saint-Germain from the previous year's ranking.
The Hungarian records in swimming are the fastest ever performances of swimmers from Hungary, which are recognised and ratified by the Magyar Úszó Szövetség (MÚSZ).
The following are the national records in speed skating in the Czech Republic maintained by the Czech Speed Skating Federation.
Men Women Mixed relay References General European Championships records 13 August 2022 updated Specific External links SwimRankings.net, LEN's Official results database.
See also NBA records Notable half-court shots List of Hail Mary passes in American football, shows some of the longest touchdowns in NFL history == References ==
Before Pete Rose broke Ty Cobb's record for career hits, for example, Tris Speaker, Stan Musial, and Hank Aaron had each reached the number two spot in succession.
Records can be set at intermediate distances in an individual race and for the first leg of a relay race.
Once they had passed an elementary level of instruction, they were promoted to fifth kyū (五級, gokyū), when they would adopt the white belt.
Cyclists from North Korea have never earned medals at the UCI World Championships, and this is reflected on this list.
Distinction from unbeaten streak A winning streak is different from an unbeaten streak in sports where tied results are possible, and so a result is neither a win nor a loss, as in association football.
Results See also List of major achievements in sports by nation References Sports123: Inline Hockey (archived) Sports123: Roller Hockey (archived)
These were matches played at Taunton between East Africa and Sri Lanka, after both teams had played in the 1975 World Cup, and a West Indies A v India A match in 2018.
According to this list, 6 events are from WWC's annual Aniversario supercard, which in the late-1980s had been held exclusively at the Juan Ramón Loubriel Stadium which typically has a seating capacity of at least 22,000 people or more.
In some countries junior practitioners have an extra system in place to show the progress in between two kyū grades.
Shockwave in August 2002, an event co-promoted by PRIDE and K-1 at the National Stadium, was attended by 91,107 spectators.
Records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts.
Her claim on the women's altitude record was challenged by Annie Smith Peck in 1908 after she made an ascent of the north peak of Huascarán, which she claimed was higher than Pinnacle Peak.
The list is dominated by Puerto Rico's oldest promotion, the World Wrestling Council, which has controlled the industry in the country since its founding in 1973.
Although the term "personal best" is increasingly used in official sports statistics, it can also refer to an unofficial best individual performance.
However, of the men to attempt the record since the rule change, only five were on a UCI World Tour team at the time: Jens Voigt of Trek Factory Racing, Rohan Dennis of the BMC Racing Team, Alex Dowsett of the Movistar Team, Victor Campenaerts of Lotto Soudal, Filippo Ganna of Ineos Grenadiers.
The Sammarinese records in swimming are the fastest ever performances of swimmers from San Marino, which are recognised and ratified by the San Marino Swimming Federation (FSN).
A player who makes double digits in a game in any two of the PTS, REB, AST, STL, and BLK statistics is said to make a double double; in three statistics, a triple double; in four statistics, a quadruple double.
For averages of five solves, the best time and the worst time are dropped (Shown in parentheses), and the mean of the remaining three solves is taken.
L – Losses – Games the goaltender has lost (A goaltender is credited with a win or loss when he is either on the ice when – or was pulled for an extra attacker immediately before – the game-winning goal was scored).
Although not all received positive grades of execution, during his free skate program at the 2025 World Figure Skating Championships in Boston, Ilia Malinin landed all six types of quadruple jumps.
Long Course (50 m) Men Women Mixed relay Short Course (25 m) Men Women Mixed relay Notes References General Macanese Records 10 January 2026 updated Specific External links Swimming Association of Macao website
In others, there are multiple competitions, for example leading English football clubs compete in four competitions each season, but only the league competition is listed below.
Sometime the players statistics are divided by minutes played and multiplied by 48 minutes (had he played the entire game), denoted by * per 48 min.
As of 8 May 2023, Bangladesh have played 137 Test matches; they have won 17 matches, lost 102 matches, and 18 matches were drawn.
This article contains lists of achievements in major cycling competitions according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by cyclists representing different nations.
SC Magdeburg is the only handball club who has won the European club title while representing two different countries (e.g.
This article is a summary of 2,789 first-class cricket matches played by Somerset County Cricket Club to the end of the 2025 season.
Rating points per game A team's final rating points for a particular game is the sum of basis, home/away, and opposition ranking points as follows.
Often their performance is expressed in terms of overs bowled, how many of those overs are maidens (i.e.
Existing stadiums, most notably Commonwealth Stadium in Edmonton and BC Place in Vancouver, have undergone major upgrades.
In second place was Leroy Burrell who also broke the former world record, which had been his at 9.90 seconds.
This is a List of New Zealand Women's Twenty20 International cricket records, that is record team and individual performances in by the New Zealand women's national cricket team in Twenty20 International (T20I) cricket.
The Guatemala records in swimming are the fastest ever performances of swimmers from Guatemala, which are recognised and ratified by the Federacion Nacional de Natacion, Clavado, Polo Acuatico y Nado Sincronizado (FENADEGUA).
Long Course (50 m) Men Women Mixed relay Short Course (25 m) Men Women References External links FENADEGUA web site
No quadruple-quadruple combination (quadruple jumps followed by quadruple loop or toe loop) or sequences (quadruple jumps followed by any quadruple jumps except for quadruple loop or toe loop) have yet been ratified.
Olympic and World records set by sport Archery Athletics Cycling Shooting Swimming Men Women Weightlifting Women Men World records set by date == References ==
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international indoor handball, beach handball and field handball tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
The suits seemed to improve the performance in those with larger physiques, boosting performance in some athletes more than others, depending on morphology and physiology.
Women's UCI hour record attempts and record holders (since the rule revision in 2014) Statistics Para-cycling records The new regulations for the making of accepted hour record attempts were extended to para-cycling in 2016.
World Age Group competitions were not considered for the making of this list because these events are not officially titled World Championships.
Overview As professional boxing has four major sanctioning bodies (WBA, WBC, IBF, WBO) each with their own champions, the sport doesn't have a centralized ranking system.
A spectator sport is a sport that is characterized by the presence of spectators, or watchers, at its competitions.
The larger the exponent, the farther away from a .500 winning percentage is the result of the corresponding Pythagorean formula, which is the same effect that a decreased role of chance creates.
Calculation In November 2019, FIBA implemented a new ranking system for women's national teams which uses a game-based system similar to the ranking system implemented for men's teams implemented in November 2017.
This is a list of golfers who have won five or more events on the Asian Tour, which was founded in 1995.
A post-season series win streak is continued by making the post-season and winning at least the first-round series of the playoffs.
The tables are pre-sorted by total number of first-place results, second-place results and third-place results, then most first-place results, second-place results, respectively.
Kathleen McKane Godfree (one gold, two silvers, and two bronzes) and Venus Williams (four gold, one silver) are tied as the record holders for the most Olympic medals in tennis.
The Masters series along with the Grand Slam tournaments, the ATP Finals championship and the Olympic Games are considered the top-tier events of men's tennis, referred to by the ATP as the "Big Titles".
The rule was adopted for interleague and Climax Series (the postseason three-team stepladder playoff to determine the team playing in the Japan Series) when they were adopted.
After he won the Suburban Handicap and the Jockey Club Gold Cup, his owner supplemented him for a fee of $360,000 to the November 2 Breeders' Cup Classic.
Early years The progression begins with Reg Birkett's try, scored in the first international rugby match of any code in 1871 when England succumbed to Scotland at Raeburn Place.
This is usually done to preserve energy in a tournament, after a devastating loss in the previous round of the tournament, or in the final round when no prize money is at stake.
Louis Cardinals, and the 2022 AL Wild Card standings, which shows the Toronto Blue Jays and Seattle Mariners six games and four games, respectively, ahead of the Tampa Bay Rays.
Current records Men Women S1 record history Men Women S1 best performers of all times Men Women References "SPEED SKIING WORLD RECORDS FROM 1874 TO 1999".
Track events Field events Road events Canoeing Cycling Powerlifting Swimming More than 30 records in swimming had been set in the event.
The Los Angeles Chargers have the lowest playoff win–loss percentage of all-time, respectively holding a record of 12–21 (.364).
Most notably, he highlights a score of 10–1 as being one of, if not the most, unlikely NFL scorigami that can be achieved within the bounds of human possibility.
Tennis In most professional tennis matches, a tiebreaker rule applies in each set to avoid lengthy matches, as happens quite frequently if the traditional tennis rule for winning a set is followed.
Formula One attendance represents cumulative weekend attendance; in 2025, the highest race-day attendance was 168,000 at the British Grand Prix.
Year-by-year Multiple-time leaders See also NBA records Advanced statistics in basketball Basketball statistics References Dean Oliver (2004).
In the 2014–15 and 2015–16 seasons, the Greek Basket League's regular season PIR leader was considered to be an unofficial statistical "MVP award", that was based solely on this statistic.
The Sri Lanka national cricket team represents Sri Lanka in international cricket and is a full member of the International Cricket Council (ICC) with Test and One Day International (ODI) status.
Also, official documents from UCI credit a medal at the 1984 UCI Track Cycling World Championships to Zhou Suying as a medal for North Korea, while in reality Syuing represented China.
Leagues with a promotion and relegation system include teams based on their performance in the previous season.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international association football, futsal and beach soccer tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
The following are lists of Grand Slam singles finals in tennis: List of Grand Slam men's singles finals List of Grand Slam women's singles finals
Games in pre-qualifiers, qualifiers and results of the losing team in final tournaments all carry a round weight of R=1.
Conclusion of the streak Now WCW Champion, Goldberg found himself the cornerstone of the company's efforts to stave off the WWF.
Association football, futsal and beach soccer Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
The Cape Verdean records in swimming are the fastest ever performances of swimmers from Cape Verde, which are recognised and ratified by the Federacao Cabo-verdiana de Natacao (FECAN).
Long course (50m pool) Men Women Mixed relay Short course (25m pool) Men Women Mixed relay Record holders' rankings By nation References External links World Aquatics swimming world records
The following are the national records in athletics in Bermuda maintained by its national athletics federation: Bermuda National Athletics Association (BNAA).
As of the end of the 2025 Stanley Cup playoffs, which ended the 2024–25 NHL season, the Montreal Canadiens lead all active NHL teams in playoff appearances, having appeared in 86 of their 109 seasons played in the NHL, and playoff games played, with 786.
Only on three occasions has a player defended their gold medal: Gigi Fernández and Mary Joe Fernández in women's doubles in 1992 and 1996, Serena Williams and Venus Williams in women's doubles in 2008 and 2012, and Andy Murray in the men's singles in 2012 and 2016.
Three teams (the Orioles, Pirates, and Yankees) achieved multiple LCS appearance streaks in and around the 1970s, each adding up to five appearances in six years.
Team statistics STK – winning or losing streak GD – Goal Difference (used as standings tie breaker) GP – Games played – Number of games the team has played W – Wins – Games the team has won in regulation.
This is a list of achievements in major international judo events according to gold, silver and bronze medal results obtained by athletes representing different nations.
Men Women Mixed relay Short course (25 m) Championship records at the European Short Course (SC) Championships since 1991.
All stadiums with a capacity of 5,000 or more which are the regular home venue of a club or national team, or are the regular hosts of a major competition (such as the State of Origin series, Magic Weekend, or the final of an annual national competition), are included.
The objective is not to create combined medal tables; the focus is on listing the best positions achieved by teams in major international tournaments, ranking the nations according to the most number of podiums accomplished by teams of these nations.
Of the 12 teams that have never won the Super Bowl, the seven who predate the institution of the game (the Cardinals, Lions, Oilers/Titans, Chargers, Browns, Bills, and Vikings) had all won an NFL or AFL championship prior to the AFL–NFL merger.
Louis Rams Oakland and Los Angeles Raiders Houston Oilers and Tennessee Titans a AAFC Western division Champs 1946–1948.
50m length) and are measured by electronic automatic officiating equipment: Surface finswimming (SF) – individual races for distances of 50m, 100m, 200m, 400m, 800m and 1500m, and relays for 4 × 100 m and 4 × 200 m.
Women Televised pairs high averages Televised combined high averages Highest televised averages by length of match in legs This table shows the highest average for all matches containing at least as many legs as the number in the leftmost column.
These suits seemed to improve the performance for top athletes, especially those with larger physiques.
FIDE uses the following ranges: FIDE used the following ranges before July 2014: The gradation of the K-factor reduces rating change at the top end of the rating range, reducing the possibility for rapid rise or fall of rating for those with a rating high enough to reach a low K-factor.
In terms of gridiron football, the Hamilton Tiger-Cats of the Canadian Football League can trace their roots back to the Hamilton Football Club (nicknamed the Tigers) which formed in 1869, then later merged with the Hamilton Wildcats in 1950 to form the current franchise.
Since then, best times set by swimmers wearing textile materials have once again overtaken more than half of the world records recognized by World Aquatics.
As of the end of the 2025 CFL season, the active head coach with the most wins is Mike O'Shea, who has 117 wins and 77 losses.
Execution All quadruple jumps have four revolutions, except for the quadruple Axel, which has four and a half revolutions.
This is a list of Canadian Football League regular season records by teams that played in the Canadian Football League as well as the Interprovincial Rugby Football Union and the Western Interprovincial Football Union that preceded it.
Some older computer systems still in use today include: Jeff Sagarin's systems, the New York Times system, and the Dunkel Index, which dates back to 1929.
As of July 2019, Sri Lanka have played 114 T20I matches and won 55 of them; 56 were lost and 2 tied and 1 no result match as well.
However, it did not qualify as the UCI Hour Record because Van Houweling had only been enrolled in the athlete biological passport program for three and a half months prior to setting this record.
It excludes makushita tsukedashi and sandanme tsukedashi entrants who made their debut in the third makushita division and the fourth sandanme division.
The Canadiens and New York Rangers share the distinction of having the most playoff ties, with 8 each.
A new record was set on December 11, 2010, when the University of Michigan's men's ice hockey team faced cross-state rival Michigan State in an event billed as "The Big Chill at the Big House".
'JudoAlba' (Scots Gaelic) JudoScotland, 'Judo Cymru' (Welsh) Welsh Judo, 'Norlin Airlann Judo' (Ulster Scots) or Tuaisceart Éireann Judo (Irish Gaelic) Northern Ireland Judo and in England, British Judo (BJA).
Dan For dan ranks, the first five are colored black, 6th, 7th and 8th dan have alternating red and white panels (紅白帯) Kōhaku-obi, commonly known as the "Coral belt," named after the coral snake, and for 9th, 10th dan and above, the belts are solid red.
The company secured support from several investors, including The Walt Disney Company, Techstars, Allen & Company, the NFL Players Association, Greycroft and NBA Commissioner David Stern.
These records are tracked/maintained by Namibia's national swimming federation: Namibia Swimming Federation (NASFED).
Women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Active streaks NBA Playoffs appearance streaks This is a list of teams that have active and current consecutive seasons with a playoff appearance.
are officially the oldest professional football club in the world, formed in 1862, playing their first recorded match on 8 December 1864 at Nottingham's Meadows Cricket Ground against a team known as Trent Valley.
If the team having first possession in overtime scored only a field goal, the other team would receive the ball, and could either tie the game with a field goal resulting in continuation of overtime (which then becomes sudden death), or score a touchdown, thereby winning the game.
Stud record Retired to stud, Victoria Park sired 25 stakes winners, including three Queen's Plate winners: Almoner (1970), Kennedy Road (1971), and Victoria Song (1972).
The ICF only acknowledge world best times set in finals of Olympic Games, World Championships, World Cups, Continental Championships and "other canoe sprint events with acceptable high technical level".
Much of the research focuses on exploiting a need for vicarious achievement, and a desire within the spectator to project a public image through a declaration of team allegiance.
Full Season Performance Index Rating (PIR) leaders (since the 1993–94 season) The Greek Basketball League (GBL) counts official statistical leaders by stats totals, and not by per game averages.
The term "sports analytics" was popularized in mainstream sports culture following the release of the 2011 film Moneyball.
The future of the NBA play-in tournament was then explored, with many reports concurring that it would indeed become a permanent fixture in the NBA.
The tournaments are important for the top players on the professional circuit as the series constituted the most prestigious tournaments in men's tennis after the four Grand Slam events.
For example, Baseball Reference contains more than 100,000 box scores while Pro Football Reference contains data on every scoring play in the National Football League (NFL) since 1941.
This is a listing of the horses that finished in either first, second, or third place and the number of starters in the Jim McKay Turf Sprint, an American stakes race for three-year-olds and older at 5 furlongs on the turf held at Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore, Maryland.
New record The World Longest Basketball Game, a charity event for Western New York mental health organization, was held from August 6 to 11, 2021.
Noted basketball analyst Dean Oliver also applied James' Pythagorean theory to professional basketball.
Last time that all Canadian teams qualified for the playoffs: 1985–86 Last time that no Canadian teams qualified for the playoffs: 2015–16 Last all-Canadian first-round series: 2024–25 (Toronto vs.
The following are the national records in track cycling in Pakistan, maintained by its national cycling federation, Pakistan Cycling Federation.
Attendance figures for leagues with a promotion and relegation system are more likely to vary each season due to the stadium capacity and support base for participating clubs.
The total of each team's points total is divided by the total number of matches to give a rating, and all teams are ranked on a table in order of rating.
The points earned by a losing team increases as the initial rating (quality) of the opposition increases, within the constraints of earning at least its own initial rating − 90, and no more than its own initial rating − 10.
In 2019, Stats merged with Perform Content following its sale to parent company Vista Equity Partners.
The term came from the world of running, referring to a person's best time in a race of a specific distance.
The oldest franchise to never win the championship is the Suns (54 seasons), while the Royals/Kings and the Hawks have even longer championship droughts (71 and 64 seasons, respectively).
Long Course (50 m) Men Women Mixed relay Short course (25 m) Men Women Mixed relay Notes References General Namibian Long Course Records 4 September 2024 updated Namibian Short Course Records 4 September 2024 updated Specific External links NASFED official web site NASFED records subpage
Despite reluctance in some circles to have such a tournament in Olympic years, three of the six most attended World Championships overall have taken place on years that coincided with the holding of a best-on-best tournament, either the Olympics (2010 and 2014) or the World Cup of Hockey (2004).
Theo Epstein of the Chicago Cubs is one of those minds who has never suited up in a professional baseball game; instead, Epstein relies on his Yale University education and the numbers behind the game to make many of his decisions.
7 At the Jamaican national trials in June 2011, Steve Mullings had tested positive for the drug Furosemide, a masking agent.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international basketball, 3x3 basketball and wheelchair basketball tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
Key: Season playoffs The following listing does not include play-in tournaments and is accurate as of the end of the 2021 Overwatch League playoffs.
Results achieved in youth, junior or U20 events were not considered for the making of this table, neither were para adaptations of hockey (power hockey).
Belt rankings for Juniors follow the same ranks and colours (up to and including brown), but have either 1, 2 or 3 white bars (depending upon age) at each end of the belt, as follows: If the judoka is aged up to 10 (Mon), there are to be 3 white bars.
Some competitions, such as the FA Cup, employ a system of replays where the drawn match is repeated at the ground of the away team in the first game.
Beach volleyball Men and women Men Women Sitting volleyball Men and women *Defunct National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Career Golden Masters The achievement of winning all of the nine active ATP Masters tournaments over the course of a player's career.
Leaders Gar Heard's 95.30 defensive rating is the NBA's all-time career record (minimum 15,000 minutes played).
They are the fastest time recorded by a swimmer capable of representing Chile for each recognized event.
Meanwhile, the Charlotte Sting have the lowest all-time playoff win–loss record, at 6–13 (.316), when considering defunct franchises.
This is a list of Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA) franchise post-season appearance droughts.
In the big four sports leagues in the United States and Canada, clubs are usually franchises owned by private investors.
Beach handball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Andrew Nicholson (2015) Former speedskater Andrew Nicholson (New Zealand) completed an unsupported circumnavigation 29,179 km in 123 days, 1 hour and 6 minutes.
Current ranking According to the latest ranking from December 18, 2025: The Dallas Cowboys remain No.
The 10-second barrier is the physical and psychological barrier of completing the 100 metres sprint in under ten seconds.
According to Charles Astor Bristed, in the early 1840s at Cambridge, there were games played between clubs from colleges and houses.
Basketball, 3x3 basketball and wheelchair basketball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Super Bowl win streaks Historical team streaks Most consecutive post-season wins in team history This is a sortable table of all 32 current NFL teams.
Results For the making of these lists, results from following major international tournaments are consulted: FINA: Fédération internationale de natation IOC: International Olympic Committee Medals for the demonstration events are NOT counted.
Rugby union, rugby sevens and rugby league Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
He improved his own standing as the oldest man to break the 10-second barrier, the first over the age of 40.
From 2000 the County Championship has been divided into two divisions shown here as D1 for Division 1 and D2 for Division 2.
The service launched a premium option dubbed StatMuse+ in May 2023, offering options that had previously been included for free, such as unlimited searches and full results in data tables.
Twelve teams have multiple winning streaks where they won an equal number of post season games before a loss.
To qualify, the jump must be made in a sanctioned competition, or official trial or qualification runs for these, with a system to control the actual length.
In 2024, Junior World Championships were resumed for acrobatic gymnastics, and Junior World Championships were organized for parkour for the first time.
Although initially kyū grade belt colours were uniformly white, today a variety of colours are used.
The app allows users to access StatMuse's sports statistics database by submitting queries in their natural language.
Historical rankings This table lists the teams that have historically held the highest rating since the T20I rankings was introduced.
As an educator by profession, Kanō believed that there should be no end to an individual's learning, and therefore no limit to the number of dan ranks.
Opta Sports, formerly Opta Sportsdata and more commonly known as Opta, is a British sports analytics company.
Scoring leaders Statistics accurate as of December 14, 2022 References External links PBA Official Website
On September 9, 2020, Major League Baseball (MLB) had its first scorigami in 21 years, a 29–9 victory by the Atlanta Braves over the Miami Marlins—the previous scorigami for an MLB game had been a 24–12 win by the Cincinnati Reds over the Colorado Rockies on May 19, 1999.
Evan Bates won another bronze medal with Emily Samuelson and thus holds the record for the most bronze medals won by a skater in ice dance (with three).
Lady Enid is Lord Edgar's second wife, though he has yet to recover entirely from the passing of his first wife, Irma Vep.
In July 2025, it ranked number 47 on Rolling Stone's list of "The 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century." Robotic recreations In 2012, Mike McMaster, an American robotics hobbyist, began working on his own model of WALL-E.
The game follows the course of their adventure as they 'sail' between the moons of the Nebula searching for a missing roboticist called Janniqi Renba.
He prefers to wear a beard, as he is self-conscious about the dimple in his chin (which he calls a cleft), but Amelia, who hates the beard and adores the dimple, makes him shave it at the earliest possible opportunity.
Kovacs and Schneider rescue Tanya Wardani, the archaeologue who coordinated the gate's discovery, from a prison camp.
However, Lo Sai does not realize that this power only works within five feet of the jade; he goes to rob a bank by himself and is taken to an asylum as a result.
Despite Kanaya knocking him unconscious to protect him, Karkat participates in the final battle, assisting Jake in defeating the leprechauns.
1964) was a new origin story that depicted Dan Garrett coming into possession of a mystical Egyptian scarab that granted him superpowers and beginning his career as the Blue Beetle.
References External links Hold That Hypnotist at IMDb Hold That Hypnotist at the TCM Movie Database (archived version) Hold That Hypnotist at the AFI Catalog of Feature Films
Franco Nuovo of Radio-Canada described being overwhelmed by Hochelaga, comparing the cinematography to paintings and finding the abundant symbolism erased any dullness that the historic subject matter could have threatened.
Adaptations The story was adapted for television as part of the NBC Television anthology series Your Show Time, airing February 11, 1949.
In 2013 it was released on DVD again in the US as part of the "Doctor Who: The Doctors Revisited 1–4" box set, alongside The Aztecs, The Tomb of the Cybermen and Spearhead from Space.
However, during the ending they would be stated to share the same existence, and had to go on different paths.
The main idea was connecting these two series was to have protagonists from two different manga with different personalities and designs.
Attractions Tomb Raider: The Ride (2002–2007) Tomb Raider: Firefall (2005–2008) References External links Official website
The Big Bang Theory: "The Precious Fragmentation" has the main characters returning from a garage sale with a box of random television and movie collectibles.
In 2017, IndieWire ranked Picard as the number one best character on Star Trek: The Next Generation.
Influence This story, along with several of Irving's others, was influential in American folklore tales of Pirates and buried treasure.
Talisman's spirit traveled back in time to learn about her incarnation as Nahita of the Tribe of the Moon, and her first defeat of Llan.
The Living Monolith (Ahmet Abdol) is a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
Jones in his debut in the 1989 film Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, while Lloyd Owen portrays him in The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles.
Series overview Series One Series Two Series Three References External links Time Team Official Website Time Team Official YouTube Channel Time Team Podcast at AudioBoom
They provided sounds like grunts, gasps, and the word "No!" for when Lara is unable to perform an action.
Chang's China Bistro to try to trick the Chinese people into telling them when the "invasion" is set to occur.
Morgan about writing the trilogy series of Takeshi Kovacs: Altered Carbon, Broken Angels and Woken Furies: Richard K.
Before the passage of the Video Recordings Act 1984, it was one of 82 "video nasties" in the UK: films whose video tapes could be confiscated and destroyed by police on the grounds of obscenity.
Other media Elora Danan also appears as the central character in a series of novels called the Chronicles of the Shadow War trilogy, set about fifteen years after the events of the original film.
Pyne meets with Mrs Oliver to congratulate her for designing a successful adventure for two of his clients.
One-time suspects In 1986, Super Cluedo Challenge and Super Sleuth were released in the UK, introducing the second wave of new board-game characters: Captain Brown (Super Cluedo Challenge) - A lower-class, drunk seaman who arrived at the mansion under mysterious circumstances.
Therefore, the entry to the underground hallway filled with snakes, which protects the anklet, is opened.
Some of Gibson's recorded sounds were kept in the final game, although the main spoken dialogue was later recorded by Shelley Blond.
He was an extremely talented individual and I was elated to have the chance to write music for his game, so I put my all into it.
It was later released by Echo Bridge Home Entertainment on June 5, 2007 as a three-disk pack with Raging Sharks (2005), and Lifepod (1993).
However, when he refuses to drive Shelly to a book fair on Halloween night, she destroys the packaged Halloween special, prompting Randy to ask the police to put her in jail for the night.
The Minotaur then threatens Iolaus, and Hercules ends up killing him by kicking him onto a stalagmite as Zeus arrives.
Although it was part of the video-on-demand service, the series did not appear on the Kabillion website until the site's April 2012 relaunch.
Capcom director Yoshiki Okamoto commented that the game was part of a broader strategy of Capcom at the time to appeal to a wider audience by using established characters from other media, as their original characters could be too niche.
The story follows Tribonian as he proceeds to secure the emperor Justinian I's permission and support to do just that, and follows him on his successful if thankless mission (Justinian may be supportive, but he is far from grateful).
A large mummy cat in the room disturbs Margaret's cat, Silvio, and the doctor suspects Silvio is guilty of the scratch marks on Trelawny's arm.
Alfred Jones Alfred (アルフレッド・ジョーンズ, Arufureddo Jōnzu) likes to study old cultures, strange languages, and treasures.
At the D23 Expo in September, Kevin Pollak was revealed to be reprising his role from the film, with Christian Slater also being announced as part of the cast.
Construction sets According to BrickLink, The Lego Group released a total of 22 Lego sets and promotional polybags as part of Lego Indiana Jones theme.
The series has attached a number of stereotypes onto her role as an Archaeologist throughout the series.
They encounter another Styx patrol, and Uncle Tam kills a member of the Styx, whom he calls Crawfly, but is mortally wounded in the fight.
It was also shown by Sky1 and Five in the United Kingdom, Network 2 (as part of the children's strand The Den in Ireland), Channel 2 in Jordan, ZBC in Zimbabwe,KBC in Kenya, Fun Channel in The Middle East, Kids Channel in Israel, Canal Famille in Québec, Canada and by YTV in Canada.
In the drama CD series, he goes by the name of Syaoron (小龍, Shaoron), appearing as Syaoran's older twin.
The show currently airs on the UK channel Film24, Sky157 every Friday night as part of 'Action Stations' evening.
Two museum curators hire them to locate an Egyptologist who disappeared in Cairo, and to retrieve the pharaoh's mummy which the Egyptologist had located before his disappearance.
With the clone disappearing, the real Syaoran breaks the curse by forcing himself to travel across different worlds for the rest of his life.
References External links Montana Jones (anime) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia Official Homepage from NHK via the Wayback Machine (Japanese)
Following the trail of clues Claudius has left behind, their quest takes them from Italy to London, California, and finally Jerusalem.
1up.com called it a rather poor game inspired by The Legend of Zelda, and said Crystalis was a far better Zelda style game.
Lupin III tries to steal the book, as his grandfather had unsuccessfully attempted before him, only to be foiled first by a young woman disguised as a security guard, then by Fujiko; he is then arrested by Inspector Zenigata.
Set in 1969—twelve years after the fourth film and during the height of the Space Race—Jones has moved to New York City, teaching at Hunter College with plans to retire, after his marriage with Marion collapsed following Mutt's death in the Vietnam War.
See also List of underwater science fiction works References External links Warlords of Atlantis at IMDb Warlords of Atlantis at Rotten Tomatoes Warlords of Atlantis at Box Office Mojo
In 2012, The Mummy was released on Blu-ray as part of the Universal Classic Monsters: The Essential Collection box set, which includes a total of nine films from the Universal Classic Monsters series.
Indiana Jones-themed attractions and appearances at Disney theme parks include: The Indiana Jones Epic Stunt Spectacular!
It has been published in more than 20 languages and was a London Sunday Times top-ten bestseller [1] and a New York Times top-ten bestseller.
Nanase Ohkawa referred to both clones appearing in the series with the term "utsushimi" (写身) to make them look like a departure from the original English word that fans often mention, aiming for different take of the cloning.
On the Eclipse, Lupin reveals himself and Geralt attacks him, but Lupin tampers with the Eclipse controls to release a micro black hole inside the Eclipse.
The supporting cast remained fairly stable throughout this original run and included Joan Mason, a reporter for the Daily Blade who starred in solo backup stories, and Mike Mannigan, Dan's police partner who believed him to be a criminal.
He feared her popularity may decline if players only focused on the character's gameplay and used the opportunity to introduce new elements for her character and encourage discussion.
While calling it a gamble, he called this passing of the torch a positive that enables the extreme negative of killing the first protagonist.
An earlier account of the controversy and personalities surrounding the discovery, drawing on unpublished letters and Ipswich Museum MS documentation, was published by Robert Markham in 2002.
Simon Noble James Flavin as Jake Morgan Murray Alper as Gail Mel Welles as Blackbeard Dick Elliott as Hotel Clerk Mary Treen as Chambermaid Cast notes Last appearance of Mrs.
Adrien Cho, producer for Mass Effect 2, described him as being both the best and worst traits of humanity rolled into one person.
However, she saw deceit at every turn, leading her to exterminate the realms, including the Malevoiy and dragons.
Back at the museum, Kay discovers Paul's corpse on the medical examination table beside Nahalla's, and is confronted by a knife-wielding, possessed Aranjo.
Gillen said he wanted to write the series to explore "what makes her tick and why she's doing what she's doing".
Ho frees the thief who unintentionally killed his uncle after blowing Wang's safe, Dakota, as he needs a guide to this new and unknown world.
With a miniature, you shoot it and its there." A scale 25-meter miniature of the whaling station was created in several months.
Kennedy, and the two begin to piece together that an Egyptian mummy is stalking the halls and sucking up souls in the night.
T U V W X Y Z See also List of Star Trek characters A–F • G–M • N–S List of recurring Star Trek: Deep Space Nine characters • Enterprise • The Next Generation • The Original Series • Voyager List of Star Trek episodes == References ==
The story revolves around Billy Stone (Billy Unger) and Allie (Sammi Hanratty) as amateur archaeologists who find a long lost medallion belonging to an ancient tribal king.
When fully rested, Daichi is very kind if a bit timid and jumpy, but he also takes responsibility instantly for the violence he had done in his sleep-deprived state.
Adam appeared in stories set in the Silver Age: Legends of the DC Universe 80-Page Giant #1 (1998); Silver Age: Showcase #1 (2000); DC Universe: Legacies #5 (2010); and DC Retroactive: Justice League - The '70s (2011).
This version is an archaeology professor with a longstanding fascination towards Amazon culture who suffers from empty nest syndrome due to Vanessa being away at college.
The project is based on Indiana Jones, Raiders of the Lost Ark – 40th Anniversary from the Raiders of the Lost Ark film.
Awards At the 1989 Pula Film Festival (the Yugoslavian version of the Academy Awards), the film won the Big Golden Arena awards for Best Film, Best Screenplay (Dušan Kovačević) and Best Actress in a Supporting Role (Radmila Živković).
Dread Central gave the film a positive and negative review stating, "This is one of those movies that requires two distinct ratings based on what frame of mind you’re in when you sit down to watch it.
References External links Channel 4 Time Team episode features for series 19 including dig-reports and summaries by the archaeologists.
Sakura losing her memories of Syaoran and struggling to once again develop feelings for him is one of the main themes of Tsubasa: Reservoir Chronicle, showing the value of relationships throughout the series.
Meanwhile the others have jumped over the edge of the Shattered Sea and confront the Crone in the Immemorial City, freeing Elora and Kit from their trance.
The Evil Dead grossed $2.4 million in the United States and $27 million overseas, for a worldwide gross of $29.4 million.
Family As with countless other female babies blessed by the Amazons before her, Julia thrived in her newfound spiritual blessing, excelling at every task she undertook.
As she watches, a horrifying mummy comes out from the cocoon, which quickly evolves into the true form of Talos with only the heart missing.
He goes to visit his ex-girlfriend Beniamina's mother, Flora, at her family home, where he also meets her live-in maid and student, Italia.
The Game Boy Advance version was also released on a Twin Pack cartridge bundled with SpongeBob SquarePants: SuperSponge in 2005.
and we're in the business of finding things - things that are priceless, dangerous, sometimes even unexplainable.
A critic for Aaro Ananda rated the film 3.5/5 stars and wrote "One glimpse of Prosenjit Chatterjee in Chandrasish Ray's Vijaynagar'er Hirey and you just know he is the G.O.A.T; in his mannerisms, speech, and acting, he is a character himself who has stepped right out of the pages of the book".
However, the people say that the king of the village is whoever wears the medallion; they hold a party for the new royalty.
Gameplay Professions are the main focus of Ambitions, and allows players to actively control a sim at their job.
Launched instead was Arion, Lord of Atlantis, which had run for several months as a backup feature in The Warlord.
Plot introduction The novel concerns mummies in the Connecticut town of Oxrun Station, a suburb of New York.
In a few episodes, Sydney is actually shown conducting conventional excavations, though she abandons the digs in question once it becomes apparent that the answers she needs are in a nearby sacred cave or ruined temple.
Tom Francis of PC Gamer criticized how the player was forced to work with the Illusive Man and Cerberus in Mass Effect 2, saying that it was an interesting idea if an option, but "it's just frustrating" if the player was forced to do it.
Ian Whyte as The Predator / "Scar", one of the three main Predators who come to Earth to create and hunt Aliens within the pyramid as a rite of passage.
Regular contributors on the Time Team include Tony Robinson (presenter), Mick Aston, Phil Harding, Carenza Lewis, Victor Ambrus (illustrator), Robin Bush (historian) and John Gater (geophysicist).
It was a major commercial success, emerging as one of the highest-grossing Telugu films of 2022, and was widely praised for its engaging screenplay, visual effects, and strong performances.
As the possessed Emily attacked Elizabeth, Shaman identified it as Ranaq the Devourer, one of the Great Beasts of the North.
Silver Age With the fading popularity of superheroes during the late 1940s, the Hawkman feature ended in the last issue of Flash Comics in 1949.
But for reasons sadly lost to history (meaning, for the life of me, I can no longer remember why), we never went ahead with the series.
Griffiths' second series, set in 1950s Brighton, focuses on the duo of Detective Inspector Edgar Stephens and magician Max Mephisto.
At Legrand's direction, Jupiter drops the bug through one eye socket, and Legrand lays out a line extending between the tree and the point at which the bug landed.
In May 1861 the Kentucky Legislature passed a Declaration of Neutrality which was violated many times soon after.
After the battle, Robin gave Luffy the antidote against the poison in Crocodile's hook, and asked him to be left in the collapsing Tomb of the Kings, as her wish was to finally die.
In the UK they released a CD album (on Minority One) entitled On The Side Of Angels, compiling previous vinyl singles and their various remixes.
The characters Mutt Williams, Irina Spalko and two Ugha Warriors were all included in minifig form, as well as Indy and an unnamed Russian soldier.
He compared the humans to the patrons of Disney's theme parks and resorts, adding, "I'm also not sure I've ever seen a major corporation spend so much money to issue an insult to its customers." Maura Judkis of U.S.
If poured into a fire, it would reduce to dust that, when carried by rain into rivers or oceans, could create immortal fish and sea creatures, or—when absorbed by soil—invulnerable plants.
Several crew members were injured during the shoot, and because of the cabin's remoteness, securing medical assistance was difficult.
Munchies is a 1987 comedy horror film starring Harvey Korman, Charlie Stratton, and Nadine Van der Velde.
Trevize then confirms his decision that the creation of Galaxia is the correct choice, and gives his reason as the likelihood of advanced life beyond the galaxy eventually attacking humanity.
He reaches the island, immediately finding the dig site, and uncovers both a treasure chest and Bugs Bunny on it.
R Colonel John "Renny" Renwick Renny Renwick is one of the characters referred to as "The Fabulous Five", the primary assistants of Doc Savage, and first appears with the full name John Renwick.
In this final battle, Vriska unleashes the Ultimate Weapon on him, said to contain alternate versions of the human kids who can defeat him.
The Meeting Point (Sabirni centar) is a 1989 Yugoslavian fantasy/comedy-drama film directed by Goran Marković and starring Rade Marković, Bogdan Diklić, Dragan Nikolić, Mirjana Karanović and Anica Dobra.
There, she reunites with Calan Dineer, learning that Khory was once a powerful weapon against The Malevoiy.
Heinlein's Future History series, and Infocom's celebrated comic interactive fiction adventure Planetfall.
Consumable items such as health packs and ammunition can be found through the level, including secret caches of supplies.
George Takei was running for 10th District Councilman seat for the City of Los Angeles, which triggered the FCC rules about airtime for political candidates.
Gard's role on Anniversary was limited to "story consultant", while also adding his voice to the audio commentary included in the game.
The artwork and design of Gold Digger are strongly influenced by Japanese manga, and Perry himself describes the book as a mixture of Indiana Jones and Final Fantasy.
In his last year of the course, he was commissioned to illustrate a book that was reviewed in the Times Literary Supplement.
The story planned for a sixth issue was eventually printed, without coloring, in the fan publication Charlton Portfolio #1 in 1974.
On the way back to the ship, they notice a moss has begun to grow around the seals of their space suits, and just in time, surmise that the moss is feeding on minuscule leakages of carbon dioxide.
As of 11 September 2024, La chimera grossed $1 million in North America (USA, Canada and Puerto Rico), and $4,231,797 in other territories, for a worldwide total of $5.2 million.
Ian McShane was originally cast as Carter, but had to be replaced when he was involved in a car accident prior to filming and broke his leg.
Cast Morena Baccarin as Alice Carter Adam Baldwin as Jesse Carter Victor Webster as Mark Tevis George Kennedy as John Tevis Azie Tesfai as Jamie Richard Kind as Ira Finkelstein John Aniston as Nigel Barrington Dan Castellaneta as Cecil B.
Breaks between boxset releases were often filled by official audiobooks of the previously released Big Finish novels, narrated by Lisa Bowerman.
Synopsis The title character is an exceedingly prissy nun substitute teacher (played by Cheech Marin) teaching in a parochial school ("Our Lady of 115th Street") classroom of exceedingly irreverent, noisy teenage boys (all played by Cheech and Tommy Chong through overdubbing).
Plot At the beginning of the 20th century, British archaeologist Professor Aitken and his son, Charles, have hired Captain Daniels and his ship, the Texas Rose, to take them to sea.
Plot influences Thanks to the author's very diverse interests, and personal experiences ranging from the U.S.
When the Crimson Gem of Cyttorak reappears on Earth and sends out a call to individuals suitable to become a new Juggernaut, Abdol hears the call and makes his way to the Temple of Cyttorak.
Lindy Booth as Claudia: Sydney's office assistant who helps Sydney and Nigel from the campus whilst they are abroad.
Oldbuck's preference for publishing his scholarly papers and the proposed notes for Lovel's Caledoniad anonymously or pseudonymously recall the fact that The Antiquary, like all the earlier Waverley novels, first appeared without Scott's name.
He performed regularly in amateur dramas, musicals and grand opera productions throughout West Somerset, and in 1991, 1994 and 1997 he helped to judge the grand finals of the World Public Speaking and Debating Championships.
Japanese game developer Capcom published two different games in 1989 based on the film; the first Willow is a platform game for arcades and the second Willow game is a role-playing game for the Nintendo Entertainment System.
Later, Aranjo infiltrates the local museum after hours, where he kills Carol and Rick Haley, both colleagues of Kay's.
There she will evacuate the archaeological research team of scientists, along with the artifacts they have gathered over the past ~30 years of study.
Of Death and Life (Level XIV, 2202 BCE) – Starting prior to 2000 BCE, the concept of an ultimate supreme being takes root with the introduction of the Cult of El, as are some barbaric and mystic practices, like child sacrifice and temple prostitution.
Rookie patrolman Dan Garret originally fought crime as Blue Beetle without the benefit of superhuman abilities.
Capcom produced two video games based on the 1988 film, one being an arcade game and the other being an action role-playing game for the Nintendo Entertainment System.
Statilius Crito of Heraclea, Trajan's procurator and medic, compiling a Getica, wrote that the Decebalus treasure included 5,000,000 lbs (2,200 tonnes) of gold and 10,000,000 lbs (4,500 tonnes) of silver.
But later, as the United States Army entered the mountains, the Apache rose up against the Mexicans who had to hide their gold in a canyon near Montezuma's Head.
Cars of Dirk Pitt The Mediterranean Caper - 1936 Maybach Zeppelin Town car Iceberg - (no car, but Pitt acquires the Ford Trimotor aircraft) Raise the Titanic!
Synopsis In 1927, Sexton Blake investigates a mystery involving a stolen Egyptian mummy, an ancient curse and a cult that dabbles in human sacrifice.
Journalist Bonnie Qu in an article for eSports group Team Liquid's website discussed Venture in the scope of other non-binary characters that were recently introduced in competitive gaming.
Gameplay Doctor Hauzer is a survival horror-adventure game in which the objective is to explore a large mansion in search of clues leading to the missing, titular character.
The film's production team conducted research at the British Museum in its Sutton Hoo archive and gallery.
The final hydrogue assault on Earth is put in motion, and with the Hansa's loss of military might and allies, the outlook is grim.
Cancelled film adaptation In 2008, Blue Sky Studios acquired the film rights for an animated film titled Anubis.
Hence the true story of the excavation of Mound 2 is suppressed, and the preparations for the 1939 excavation are omitted.
The Legend of the Hidden City was a South African action adventure series, directed by David Lister, which was broadcast by SABC and SABC2 between 1996 and 1998 as two series with a total of 39 episodes.
These mummies are mummified versions of creatures from other races that are reanimated through necromancy.
Aryan, along with Dr Sandra Rebello and Dr Gabrielle, discovers that the Ram Setu is around 18,000 years old, which predates Rama himself.
Visual effects and design Lucasfilm's Industrial Light & Magic (ILM) created the visual effects and animation sequences.
Though Nygårdshaug has worked within a wide range of genres throughout his career including poetry and children's literature, and won a people's award for "Best Norwegian Book of All Time" with Mengele Zoo, he is arguably best known for his Fredric Drum series.
Characterization Ice King appears like an elderly man with blue skin, which is caused by the magical crown he wears.
Digging for treasure is prohibited on the portions of the mountain that are in the control of the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department and is also prohibited on the beach, also part of the Oregon State parks.
At first glance, the alien Ixtl also appears to be an inspiration for the film Alien, though those involved with the film denied any influence on its part.
Still unaware of her own Amazonian ties, Julia eventually touched Harmonia's talisman during her first meeting with Diana, which resulted with several flashes of memories from Julia's Send Forth period.
The Dig is a historical novel by John Preston, published in May 2007, set in the context of the 1939 Anglo-Saxon ship burial excavation at Sutton Hoo, Suffolk, England.
The party goes through the portal and finds an inactive Martian starship, along with the bodies of Tanya's original archaeologue team.
If the subject cannot, for whatever reason, get access to the device, intense depression can result, often to the point of madness or suicide.
Thorn, not revealing his identity, sets off to Angwyn with his ship-sailing companions Morag and Maulroon, alongside Geryn and Wyr captain Ryn.
Landowner Edith Pretty, who was in her mid 50s, was initially intended to be portrayed by 53-year-old Nicole Kidman; the role was ultimately filled by Carey Mulligan, who was then in her mid 30s.
For reasons I can't quite describe, being able to trace roads and geographic features on a map and read my way through those same locations, but full of people, weather and birdsong, just feels great...
Smith as Frank Terrill Douglas as Addict Bob Gonzalez as Addict Walter Kaufmann as Addict "The Fright Before Xmas" Paul Kaufmann as Steve Barbara Jackson as Mother Walter Kaufmann as Joe Lori Tate as Cheryl Josh Craig as Chucky Sarah Craig as Susie Michael R.
Sweets wanted to tell the others, but Zack told him not to do so to avoid being sent to a "regular jail" as he "would not do well in prison".
For the series' launch event, a set was built (imitating the computerised background) on which the animation was said.
Two people deserve most of the credit for its success: Star Boris Karloff and Director Karl Freund." Cliff Aliperti at Immortal Ephemera opines: "The perfect explanation of The Mummy's quality comes from film historian William K.
The first Spacer planet they visit is Aurora, which was abandoned by its inhabitants and has a collapsing ecology.
She was horrified to later learn that she was unable to remove the coronet without enduring unbearable, agonizing pain.
Knowing the quality of the final result, the boys turn away while the audience reacts hostilely to the film.
The spirits themselves appear just as silly and petty as the peasants from the village above them, and in their desire to see what happened to their descendants, they find themselves surprised by the modern world of the living.
He found a common trait in all the stories: there was always a lone survivor of a piratical crew who somehow preserved a chart showing where the treasure was buried, but unable to return himself, he transfers the map or information to a friend or shipmate, usually on his deathbed.
Plot Marijuana farmer Randy Marsh, owner of Tegridy Farms, announces a Halloween special promotion to his family.
It ran for three seasons in the United States between 1999 and 2002, fulfilling its initial three-season, 66-episode contract, which was not renewed.
As she can see the future through her dreams, Jade was the one who encouraged the other three kids to play the fictional video game Sburb, and therefore set the plot in motion.
For five months the creatures were redesigned, the Predators wrist blades being extended roughly four times longer than those in the Predator films, and a larger mechanical plasma caster was created for the Scar Predator.
Bug-a-Booo ("Turma do Penadinho") is a Brazilian comic strip, created in 1963 and part of the Monica's Gang series.
All but one of the robots have stopped functioning; the last remaining active WALL-E has developed a personality.
In 1991, Irma Vep was the most produced play in the United States, and in 2003, it became the longest-running play ever produced in Brazil.
The first, Karl, is an archaeologist who wishes to give it to an archaeological institute; the second, Franz, is a materialist who wants to appropriate it to be rich and powerful.
Creation In a 2013 interview with Comic Book Resources, Fradon spoke on the character's genesis stating, "Metamorpho was George Kashdan's idea.
In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, two characters, Volo and Cogita, appear to resemble Cynthia, with Volo having a similar design, music theme, and Pokémon team to Cynthia's.
This version is not a port, but rather was actually a parallel project that was developed simultaneously with the arcade release.
Sallah later takes Jones and his father, Henry, to the Nazi convoy near the location of the Holy Grail.
The Indiana Jones Adventure, which opened at Disneyland in Anaheim, California, in 1995 and at Tokyo DisneySea in Chiba, Japan, in 2001.
In an interview with the newspaper Aftenposten, Egeland explained that the protagonist Bjørn Beltø in the novel Sirkelens ende (published in English under the title Relic) and other works is named after two pseudonyms used by Flatabø: Bjørn Botnen and Sven Beltø.
In Crocodile on the Sandbank, during a visit to the Cairo museum, the Emersons encountered Amelia Peabody and her friend, Evelyn Forbes.
Tom Fox of Starburst magazine gives "The Uninvited" a rating of five out of five, calling it a "quality episode".
She most often teaches courses on what appear to be archaeology and cultural anthropology, though she is also shown teaching history and architecture as required by the plot.
Once when Kaolla was a very young girl he promised to marry her, but then he realises that she only sees him as a brother, whereas Amalla is in love with him.
Background Smith was inspired in 1971 to begin work on the novel by memories of a childhood visit with his family to the ruins of Great Zimbabwe in 1941 and his resulting obsession with civilizations rising and falling.
Plot An archaeological team, digging in a remote village and led by an old professor, unearths an old Roman artifact, a gravestone bearing some mysterious inscriptions.
When I went to a restaurant, a child came up to me and asked, "Where are your crutches?" [...] If I attend any event, children ask, "Didn't you bring your stick?" I get inspiration as an actor from these things, because they cannot be influenced by social media.
In the first story in this issue, Ted Kord fought a bogus Dan Garrett, but the second story was more significant.
Set in London, the film follows a woman who battles the curse of Talos, an ancient mummy, years after his tomb was infiltrated by her archeologist grandfather.
Deciding to use his powers for his own personal gain, Abdol creates a cult around himself as the messiah, the Cult of the Living Pharaoh, and becomes a supervillain, intending to rule all of Earth.
After laboring for several hours and finding nothing, Legrand questions Jupiter and discovers that he had mistakenly dropped the bug through the skull's right eye socket rather than the left, resulting in the bug landing a few inches from where it should.
History presenter Beginnings and Time Team (1994–2001) In 1994, Robinson began presenting Time Team, a TV programme devoted to archaeological investigations limited to three days.
The Greatest Adventure: Stories from the Bible is an animated direct-to-video film series produced by Hanna-Barbera Productions that tells of three young adventurers who travel back in time to watch biblical events take place.
Gameplay In Heaven's Vault, the player takes the role of an archaeologist called Aliya Elasra who has a robotic companion called Six.
Appearances In Tsubasa: Reservoir Chronicle Syaoran is introduced in Tsubasa: Reservoir Chronicle as a young archaeologist who often visits the Kingdom of Clow and is in love with his childhood friend Sakura, the kingdom's princess.
Sparrow-Star Song assisted with distribution, releasing all thirteen episodes on VHS, one episode per tape.
See also List of Time Team episodes Time Team Specials Time Team Others References Bibliography Feinman, G.
Domenica de Rosa (born 17 August 1963), known by her pen name Elly Griffiths, is a British crime novelist.
See also Michael de la Bédoyère Anthony Thorold List of Durham University people References Sources Guy de la Bédoyère's Youtube Channel Classical Civilization Time Team biography Debrett's People of Today Duckworth Academic and Bristol Classical Press author page Thames & Hudson author page
They escape, but can't find their way back until they get a lead from placing a series of telephone calls to friends, who then call their friends and so on.
Several artifacts, including a gold coin bearing the marks of Pontius Pilate and a jar dating to 32 AD, date the tomb to the year Jesus died.
It is a fictionalised account of Howard Carter and Lord Carnarvon's excavation of Tutankhamun's tomb, with the real events embellished with various myths and legends.
From 1 September 2010, Robinson hosted a series on the National Geographic Channel called Birth of Britain which was repeated on Channel 4 beginning in January 2011.
(A relative, Lajos Kossuth, achieved notability for his role in the Hungarian Revolution of 1848.) Joseph Kosuth attended the Toledo Museum School of Design from 1955 to 1962 and studied privately under the Belgian painter Line Bloom Draper.
Humanity builds worlds to be colonized, complete with their own fossil history created by engineer/artists.
This character was inspired by Griffiths' husband, who gave up a city job to train as an archaeologist, and her aunt, "who lives on the Norfolk coast and filled her niece's head with the myths and legends of that area".
Thomas said that there were plans for a Liberty Legion series, but by that point, the sales figures on the Invaders comic were dropping, and Marvel decided against launching a spin-off.
The fourth season episode "Family" reveals that Picard has a brother, Robert, who took charge of the family vineyards in La Barre after Picard joined Starfleet.
Even though she inherited a vast fortune, giving her the means to attend Cambridge with ease, Lara chose to study at University College London.
Sepinwall found the series entertaining at times, particularly appreciating the engaging action sequences and visually appealing production design.
Shailyn Pierre-Dixon plays Zoe Lawton, Deadshot's daughter, and Corina Calderon plays Grace Santana, Diablo's wife.
Metamorpho appears in the Batman: Arkham Knight prequel comic as the subject of Stagg Enterprises's "Project: Meta", which was originally developed to weaponize a sample of Clayface's body.
Bugs avoids walking the plank and tricks Sam into thinking he is a charming mermaid, which gets him into a swimming chase with a shark.
The team finds an old Indian man who tells them that Skeleton Man, known as Cottonmouth Joe, was a genocidal warrior who killed the old man's tribe and is now stalking the soldiers.
Ralph reveals that he was aware of Faust's identity for some time, and that the binding spell surrounding the tower is designed to imprison Faust, not to counter any negative effects of the spell.
Also with Channel 4, he presented Tony Robinson's Crime and Punishment, Catastrophe and Man on Earth focusing on humanity's struggle with climate change in the past 200,000 years.
GD-ROM 3.0 – Collects Gold Digger vol.1: #1–4, vol.2: #1–50, vol.3: #1–125, and Ninja High School #54–57.
Additionally, special retro edition boxes of all five cereals in their original packaging art were sold exclusively at Target stores.
GamesRadar praised his moral sense, putting Illusive Man in their 2018 list of the best villains in video game history (which supersedes their 2013 list) at number 23.
The cRPG was released on Steam in Early Access in 2021, followed by a full release a year later on May 26, 2022.
He is nostalgic for his war days and has convinced a publisher that his military exploits would make for a good book.
The Greatest Shop in the Galaxy remains the most light-hearted play of the season, while The Dance of the Dead reintroduces the Ice Warriors from Doctor Who.
Plot The protagonist, Nevada Smith (a play on Indiana Jones), is an archaeologist and adventurer who is exploring an Egyptian pyramid, hoping to find the Pharaoh's Tomb and get evidence of his findings.
Bernard, one of the Templar Knights, manages to kill the Minion's host, but in his eagerness to prove himself better than Lukas, he accidentally allows the Minion to take possession of him and thus insert the key into the gate.
The protagonist learns about the treasure from the pirates, who are promptly and conveniently killed in an accident.
The brands Frute Brute (originally Fruit Brute) and Yummy Mummy have had more limited production and availability.
While he sometimes appears aloof when absorbed in his work, Calculus corresponds with other scientists and also collaborates with many of them on his projects.
While various projects going through varying stages of development, a continuation was released as a television series titled, Ash vs.
The initial wave of sets was released in 2008, Temple Escape (set number: 7623) was one of the biggest, and features the famous boulder chase scene from the opening sequence of Raiders of the Lost Ark.
Only much later was Brown given full credit for his contribution and his name is now displayed permanently alongside Pretty's at the British Museum.
Other specials may focus on a dig with a particular holiday theme; a more complex excavation over a longer period than the standard three days; or a visit to a particularly famous historical site.
The film flashes back to the present where Billy (Billy Unger) sneaks into his father's archaeological site and tries to help work.
The Gravedigger / Heather Taffet Portrayed By Deirdre Lovejoy United States Attorney Heather Taffet (seasons 2, 4–6) was the serial killer and kidnapper known as The Gravedigger.
Under pressure from Eidos, key sections of the game needed to be cut, and it was released before the team felt it was ready.
Kirk flies the Enterprise toward the dead star in what appears to be a suicide run, but in actuality is a slingshot maneuver for escaping its massive gravity.
Courage) is a 2013 Indian Telugu-language action-adventure film directed by Chandra Sekhar Yeleti and produced by B.
The Shiera Sanders Hall incarnation of Hawkgirl appears as a playable character in Injustice: Gods Among Us, voiced by Jennifer Hale.
The Mystery of the Whispering Mummy is the third book in The Three Investigators series by Robert Arthur Jr.
Gard had been headhunted by other software companies including Interplay and Shiny Entertainment (which prematurely announced that it had hired Gard) but did not take up their offers of employment.
Five of these episodes ("The Miracles of Jesus", "David and Goliath", "Noah's Ark", "The Easter Story", and "Moses") were released on DVD in 2006.
In other media Steven Drake, a character based on Jack Drake, appears in The New Batman Adventures episode "Sins of the Father".
Foster was the only French officer alive who served in Morocco before the war and had helped develop diplomatic ties with the tribes by negotiating with El Krim, their de facto leader.
Following his death, Peabody's devotion to her father was rewarded with her being named sole beneficiary of his substantial fortune of over £500,000 (over £30 million in 2006 values).
Time Team Digs is an eight-part series including highlights from previous Time Team digs, with each episode focusing on a particular period in history, going from the Bronze Age to the modern day.
Montezuma's treasure is a legendary buried treasure said to be located in the Casa Grande ruins or elsewhere in the Southwestern United States and Mexico.
Gibson designed Bartoli's Hideout, Opera House, and the Floating Islands and Dragon's Lair levels, among others.
Stoker's style was arguably a product of his background in the theatre, working as business manager to theatre legend Henry Irving and running the Lyceum Theatre for twenty-seven years.
It currently airs in reruns on the National Geographic Channel with 10 minutes removed for commercials.
Riley approach Sam as he think Brad is a prime suspect, while she explains the core of Talos' myth to Riley: Talos directed that his followers remove his body parts, and they believed he would someday be resurrected to reclaim them, gaining physical perfection and immortality.
The boys open their eyes to find their bondages removed and Cartman remarks that the film "must've sucked balls." Back in South Park, the boys believe that they are going to be congratulated for defeating Spielberg and Lucas.
Home media Warner Archives released the film on made-to-order DVD in the United States as part of "The Bowery Boys, Volume Four" on August 26, 2014.
The Anubis Tapestry: Between Twilights is a 2006 fantasy novel written and illustrated by Bruce Zick.
As a joke David wanted to name their unborn child "Nessie" after the local Scottish creature the Loch Ness Monster.
Television The myth and superstitions about a curse on the treasure are sensationalized in a 2014 television program Raiders of the Lost Past which includes interviews of many family members of treasure hunters.
This makes her pause despite being consumed by the Malevoiy, who she notes were not invited to the ceremony.
The latter stretches back to World War I when Monk framed Brooks for stealing hams during the war in retaliation for Ham playing a practical joke on him.
As the lamps are lit, the coffer begins to glow, emitting a green vapour that passes into the sarcophagus.
In the novels he is trained not only in archaeology, but also in religious and theological mysteries.
Originally, Hawkworld retold the origins of the Silver Age Hawkman and Hawkwoman, but following its success, DC Comics launched a Hawkworld ongoing series set in the present, resulting in a complete reboot of Hawkman continuity.
Two of the races, the Riim (pp 82–83) and the Ixtl (pp 52–53) are depicted in Barlowe's Guide to Extraterrestrials.
In most of his appearances, he is confused with dust and is attacked by broomsticks and vacuum cleaners.
This was followed by series 22 in 2023, with a new special episode, "Digging Band of Brothers", which was presented by a returning Tony Robinson.
The movie also uses many elements from famous horror stories and directors (Lucio Fulci specifically).
During the filming for the television series Jaha Bolibo Shotto Bolibo for Hoichoi in late-2023, it was reported that director Chandrasish Ray had met Prosenjit at his residence in Kolkata and narrated a script that impressed the actor, in their second collaboration after Nirontor (2020).
When Bob Rozakis asked him about the character, Len Wein responded with: Even I had forgotten about Pandora Pann.
Daphne is perturbed by the discovery that her estranged husband Henry Barnes lives a downtrodden life as the camp's odd-job man, despite having won the pools.
It ranks third behind Aliens and Prometheus at the domestic box office, and at the time was the highest-grossing film of both the Predator and Alien franchises (and to-date is the fourth best total, behind Alien: Romulus, Predator: Badlands and Prometheus).
Claude breaks off with Maria, confessing to past life as gigolo using women, and promises to reform and keep in touch through yearly advertisements in newspaper.
Wishing to reunite with Thorn, who she feels is the closest she has to family, Elora persuades Rool to ride with her on Bastian to Sandeni, where he is currently hiding.
With superhuman intelligence and the ability to learn quickly, Ramses quickly learns the English language and, with the help of an eager Julie, is given a tour of modern London and new technology that had arisen during the past two thousand years.
The Curse of King Tut's Tomb is a 1980 horror film directed by Philip Leacock and starring Eva Marie Saint, Harry Andrews, Raymond Burr and Tom Baker, with Paul Scofield as the narrator.
In 2021, The Postscript Murders was shortlisted in the Gold Dagger category at the Crime Writers' Association Awards.
Upon hearing Superman and Batman's fight with Doomsday in Gotham City, Diana abandons a flight back to her job in France and joins the two heroes in their fight against the monster.
Cast Home video In October 2017, RetroVision Entertainment released the film on DVD, paired with Night of the Sharks.
In the game, the player assumes the role of an adventurer in the 1930s and can team up with three other players to fight against different mythological enemies like mummies, giant scorpions and minotaurs.
Plot The series followed the lives of archaeology students who discover an ancient city in the wilderness unknown to civilisation.
They take place about fifteen years after the original film and feature the teenage Elora Danan as a central character.
It has been some time since Hercules has been going on adventures, but he is content that he has now settled down with Deianeira to raise his children.
On occasion, however, mischievous Company employees attempt to place anomalous objects in the strata as practical jokes, like running shoes and other out-of-place artifacts, hoping to raise confusion among future archaeologists when the planets' beginnings have been long forgotten.
Gameplay The player assumes the role of Willow Ufgood, who wages a battle against evil, wielding swords, shields, magic spells, and items to defeat enemies.
He felt that the game designers failed to represent Native American heritage with "depth and consistency".
Benson tells the tale of a doctor whose visions of monkeys dovetails into legends of mummies in ancient Egypt.
The story was published in Tales of a Traveller, an 1824 collection of Irving's writings, where it immediately precedes that work's most famous story "The Devil and Tom Walker", which also involves Kidd's treasure.
Filming In 2023, actor Larry Dann dedicated a chapter of his autobiography Oh, What A Lovely Memoir to his memories of the making of this production.
In mid-January 2025, Aajkaal hinted at their collaboration, revealing to be jointly produced by Nideas Production and Shree Venkatesh Films.
In the wake of the series' success, there has been arranged theme tours with Nygårdshaug, "in the footsteps of Fredric Drum", to Saint-Émilion.
This process includes sequential detonation of multiple nuclear bombs to rapidly melt the polar icecaps and induce volcanic activity.
In an era when having a woman in a video game development team was uncommon, Gibson was a creative voice in a core team of about six people.
Brown is astonished to uncover iron rivets from a ship, suggesting that it is the burial site of someone of tremendous distinction, such as a king.
The Department dispatches the Strange Brigade, a team of people experienced in defending the British Empire from supernatural threats to uncover what Seteki is after.
B Brigadier General Theodore Marley "Ham" Brooks Ham Brooks is one of the characters referred to as "The Fabulous Five", the primary assistants of Doc Savage, and first appears with the full name Theodore Marley Brooks.
Warlords of Atlantis was a part of a slate of six films EMI were making that comprised Death on the Nile with Paramount, Warlords and Arabian Adventure with Columbia, Convoy with United Artists, The Deer Hunter with Universal, and The Driver with Twentieth Century Fox.
Arthur is caught in a compromising position with attractive blonde Norma Baxter whose husband Joe is lumbered with their giant Irish wolfhound.
More recently, he has written for the Daily Telegraph, primarily concerning himself with the COVID-19 pandemic.
Plot summary While working in Egypt for Sir Harold Gregory, archaeologist Thomas Ashley meets Lucien Mallory and his servant Cooper, who have visited Gregory’s camp after the discovery of a mummy.
The case is taken to a familiar location and Bob and Pete quickly arrive on the scene and the villain is caught.
At a different junction, they discover another opening to the cave and Furby, dead with a broken neck.
Venture also has several abilities that require activation, though have a "cooldown" period after use and are unable to be used again during that duration.
Additional controller inputs let the player run while moving, leap forward, investigate the scenery, push or pull heavy objects like furniture, pick up important items, and access an inventory of collected items.
Fictional character biography Jack Drake and his wife Janet are respected businesspeople and archeologists who often leave their son Tim behind while traveling the world.
In the DC Rebirth relaunch, the Drakes' history is retconned to be similar to the pre-New 52 version, with Jack Drake's death in Identity Crisis being returned to history.
Within this series' continuity and characterization, Shayera and the Thananigarians' wings were considered a part of their physiology and is a prominent love interest of John Stewart, both a departure from the comics.
Baptiste finds that the sinkhole is located over a stream and finds the weapons which he believed could have belonged to Patriote rebels during the Lower Canada Rebellion in 1837.
Clued in by this and earlier comments about the lady’s eyes, Pyne deduces that the woman posing as Lady Esther is actually her companion, Muriel King.
Indiana Jones appears in Fortnite: Battle Royale (2017, Epic Games) as part of the Chapter 3 – Season 3 Battle pass.
The two remaining troopers (Captain Leary (Michael Rooker) and Lieutenant Scott (Sarah Ann Schultz) again try to lure Cottonmouth Joe into a trap to no avail.
The film received generally negative reviews from critics and grossed $177.4 million worldwide against a production budget of $60–70 million.
The designers allow the player to decide on a whole series of value choices and choose a "ruthless", "moderate", or "idealistic" stance.
Despite opening new opportunities for Allen, she expressed disappointment with the film because her character was motivated more by her relationship with Jones and financial gain than with her father and his obsession with the Ark.
"Allegories of Pathos and Perspective in the Symbolical Paintings and Self-Portraits of Edwin Dickinson," in Dreishpoon, et al.
Plot After watching the Beijing 2008 Olympics opening ceremony on television, Eric Cartman has been plagued by nightmares about the Chinese, believing that they will invade America.
Shum leaves a baggage containing the mysterious artifact in Andy's hotel room before being captured by Karov, head of the KGB.
I've been called everything from a treasure hunter to a thrill seeker, but personally I like to think of myself as a professional explorer.
As he travels along different corners of the world, Cross is accompanied by two partners: Mackenzie (Karen Cliche) and Gabriel (Jesse Nilsson).
The Strange Brigade set out across Egypt to foil Seteki's plans and rid the world of her undead army.
In a reference to the radioactive Earth of Asimov's novel Pebble in the Sky, the restoration of Earth's soil was eventually abandoned in favour of resettling the population to "New Earth", which the First Galactic Empire had already been terraforming.
Appears in Sirkelens ende (Relic, 2001) Paktens voktere (Guardians of the Covenant, 2007) Lucifers evangelium (Gospel of Lucifer, 2009) Nostradamus' testamente (The Testament of Nostradamus, 2012) Den 13.
The first eighteen books in the series were written in chronological order, with the exception of Guardian of the Horizon, which was the 16th book published but 11th in the series chronology.
Tasked with retrieving the mummy, the Stooges embark on a perilous journey, driven by the promise of a substantial reward.
Depending on whether the player is playing as Willow or Madmartigan, either magic blasts or sword swipes are the attacks.
Shiera first appears as Hawkgirl in All Star Comics #5 (July 1941), in a costume created by Sheldon Moldoff, based on Neville's Hawkman costume.
Ramses the Damned: The Passion of Cleopatra is a historical horror novel by American writers Anne Rice and her son Christopher Rice, published by Anchor Books on November 21, 2017.
Magnum, P.I.: "Legend of the Lost Art" is a parody of Raiders as well as a reference to Tom Selleck being selected for the Indiana Jones role before it was prevented by his commitments to do Magnum, P.I.
For passenger automobiles, section 280F(a)(1)(A) limits the depreciation deduction by listing the amounts a taxpayer can deduct in the years following its purchase.
Winston Peters has critiqued KiwiSaver as a 'billion dollar rort' by the finance industry and proposed alternatively that private KiwiSaver funds should be invested in a government run "KiwiFund" which would invest mainly in New Zealand assets and infrastructure.
He spent most of the year (perhaps wisely) in Wales, preaching the crusade, accompanied by the chronicler Giraldus Cambrensis.
Relevant Internal Revenue Code sections Section 6109(a) of the Internal Revenue Code provides (in part) that "When required by regulations prescribed by the Secretary [of the Treasury or his delegate] [ .
The review was a "root and branch" review, restricted only in that it could not consider increasing the rate or broadening the base of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), imposing tax on superannuation payments to retirees over 60 years of age, or already-announced personal income tax commitments.
Though it was used to refer to a tax on meat or slaughtering, the word korobka (Russian: коробка) actually means "box" in Russian.
The nomenclature of goods has been selected taking into account the capabilities of Russian companies to substitute imports of products from unfriendly countries.
Revenue stamps of the Gold Coast were issued by the British Colony of the Gold Coast (modern Ghana) between 1899 and the early 20th century.
This extension only gives more time for self-employed individuals and their spouses more time to file their returns; any balance owing is still due on April 30 and arrears interest will be charged even if the return is filed before the extended deadline.
Other taxes may be retained if they serve a specific policy purpose such as discouraging smoking or traffic congestion.
994; 113th Congress) – a bill that aims to make information on federal expenditures more easily accessible and transparent.
Overview The UK government introduced the Insurance Premium Tax to raise revenue from the insurance sector, which was viewed as being under-taxed, and not subject to Value Added Tax.
An example of this method would be: A 50% reduction for the first $10,000 income, a 40% reduction for the next $5,000 income, a 30% reduction for the next $5,000 in income.
The numeral design was reissued in 1961 denominated in South African rand, and these are the last Cape revenues.
However, it has signed multiple information-exchange agreements, including the Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters or the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement on Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information.
Adjusted cost base (ACB) is used in the Canadian tax system to refer to the cost of an investment adjusted for several tax-related items including acquisition costs.
Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) is a type of indirect tax levied on general insurance premiums in the United Kingdom.
Inheritance and gift tax A single law regulates both inheritance tax and gift tax, requiring the payment of rates from 7% to 50% both on transfers following death and on gifts among the living.
Origins of the modern agency start in 1918 with the establishment of Finance and Tax departments within the Lithuanian Ministry of Finance.
In 1189, he was involved in a war with Philip and his own son Richard the Lionheart, and was accused of spending the tithe on provisions for this war.
The eight-per-thousand tax has significantly helped the Piedmontese Waldensians, a Protestant community whose origins predate the Reformation, the Waldensians have only about 25,000 enlisted members but about 412,000 Italians support them and their charitable works.
Types Any government-provided number that can be used in the US as a unique identifier when interacting with the IRS is a TIN, though none of them are referred to exclusively as a Taxpayer Identification Number.
These exist in a number of different watermarks and perforations and continued to be issued until 1951 (with the exception of the Japanese occupation from 1941–45).
The table is not exhaustive in representing the true tax burden to either the corporation or the individual in the listed country.
Income tax Employment income earned is subject to a progressive income tax, which applies to all who are in the workforce.
In popular culture On 27 June 2007, the day of his resignation as Prime Minister, Tony Blair jokingly remarked during his final Prime Minister's Questions about receiving his P45: I received the following communication by urgent letter yesterday: "Details of employee leaving work: Surname Blair.
The Board also needs to build the committee (AU) which consists of three to five people, to prepare matters for discussion in the Board.
However, certain government benefits (such as the Canada Groceries and Essentials Benefit and Canada Child Tax Benefit) are only paid if a T1 return is filed for the year.
References External links Information on Individual Income Tax Income Tax Act Singapore Personal Income Tax Rates
Partial income splitting models allow only a part of the income to be transferred among spouses in order to balance such criteria.
The Special Department of Federal Revenue of Brazil (Portuguese: Secretaria Especial da Receita Federal do Brasil), most commonly referred to as Receita Federal (RFB), is the Brazilian federal revenue service agency and a secretariat of the Ministry of the Economy.
A registered seller has a duty to issue a Qualified Invoice to a buyer when making a taxable transaction in selling goods or rendering services.
Typical non-domiciled UK residents include senior company executives, bankers, lawyers, business owners and international recording artists; see list of people with non-domiciled status in the UK.
Meanwhile, the supervisors would make regular spot-checks on the excisemen in their districts and report any anomalies or errors in their accounts.
89) was an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that consolidated enactments relating to excise duties on mechanically propelled vehicles, and to the licensing and registration of such vehicles, in Great Britain.
United States of Colombia Later in 1861 the United States of New Granada became the United States of Colombia and stamps were issued marked Estados Unidos de Colombia from 1864.
This was printed in London, in a similar design to a series of Transvaal revenues which had been issued a year earlier.
The Australia's Future Tax System Review, colloquially known as the Henry Tax Review was commissioned by the Rudd government in 2008 and the final report was published in 2010.
References External links Voluntary Disclosure Agreements (96-576) Taxes - Voluntary Disclosure Voluntary Disclosure Program Guideline Voluntary Disclosure and Compliance Program
See also Postage stamps and postal history of Zambia Postage stamps and postal history of Zimbabwe Revenue stamps of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland References External links Rhodesian Study Circle Rhodesia Revenues as Exhibited by Sandy Jardine Tax Stamps Collection
All legal entities that were liable for the corporate tax were also liable for the flat-rate tax except some newly established corporations (whose capital was composed of at least 50% of cash contributions) and certain not-for-profit organizations.
Structured installment sales are distinct from monetized installment sale transactions, in which a seller both defers gain and immediately borrows against the installment obligation.
On the other hand, Smith reported that others objected to the tax on the grounds of its inequality, since it was thought to have a disproportionate impact on the poor.
A 2015 Eurostat report showed that from 2010 to 2015, almost 23% of Ireland's GDP was now represented by untaxed multinational net royalty payments, thus implying that Irish GDP was now circa 130% of Irish GNI (e.g.
This alternative usually requires the assistance of a third party service provider who will require a fee for their services and the compliance cost might outweigh the benefits (i.e.
Tobacco tax In Japan, the price of cigarettes includes four types of taxes: national tobacco tax, local tobacco tax, special tobacco tax, and consumption tax.
One of the values - the 6d red and black - is very rare despite it being one of the most commonly used rates as it was the stamp duty tax on cheques.
Former judges whose terms have ended may become "senior judges", able to return and assist the court by hearing cases while serving on recall.
This tax withheld is usually considered a final determination and payment of tax, requiring no further action or tax return by the foreign person.
Reyes Court (1965–1966) Members of the Umali Court (1966–1976) Members of the Filler Court (1980–1990) Members of the A.
Dual-purpose postage and revenue stamps were used for most fiscal transactions, so few revenue stamps were issued.
The Institute of Revenues Rating and Valuation (IRRV) is the professional body for those working in the field of revenues, benefits and valuation in the United Kingdom.
Tourist refund scheme Before the introduction of the GST, goods could be purchased from suppliers offering duty-free pricing upon presentation of a current passport and airline tickets.
Unemployment insurance premiums are paid by both employer and employee: 2.8% is withheld is of the employee gross salary and 1.4% is paid by employers of monthly gross salaries.
See also Child poverty in Canada External links Official NCB website Archived 2005-03-06 at the Wayback Machine
Further changes in 2019 increased the upper threshold of the 19% bracket further to $A45,000, and brought the remaining stage two changes forward to 2020.
It arose in response to efforts by Congress to permanently prohibit states from collecting sales tax on online commerce.
Officially known as The Constitution (One Hundred and First Amendment) Act, 2016, this amendment introduced a national Goods and Services Tax (GST) in India from 01-July-2017.
Structured sales are one of several methods used to manage capital gains exposure on the disposition of a capital asset, alongside conventional installment sales, 1031 exchange transactions and other deferral techniques.
Climax of 2015 Apple's Q1 2015 BEPS transaction implied that Irish GDP was now well over 155% of Irish GNI, exceeding even Luxembourg, and making it inappropriate for ongoing monitoring of the high level of Irish indebtedness.
This is consistent with 2018 research showing that the "Green Jersey" is the largest BEPS tool in the world.
ITINs ITINs are used by aliens who may or may not have the right to work in the US, such as aliens on temporary visas and non-resident aliens with US income.
It was introduced as the One Hundred and Twenty Second Amendment Bill of the Constitution of India, The Goods and Services Tax (GST) is a Value added Tax (VAT) proposed to be a comprehensive indirect tax levy on manufacture, sale and consumption of goods as well as services at the national level.
In the 2015/2016 tax year SARS eFiling processed 36.8 million electronic submissions and payments which equates to 98.7% of all submissions and payments to SARS in South Africa.
In 1948 she refused to withhold taxes from the wages of her employees, based on the claim that the government had no power to require such withholding.
On January 1, 1996, CCH Incorporated became a wholly owned subsidiary of Wolters Kluwer NV (Amsterdam).
Payments subject to withholding include compensation for services, interest, dividends, rents, royalties, annuities, and certain other payments.
However, it was cited by some Conservative parliamentarians as an example of a film which would not receive financial aid under Bill C-10.
The chambers may be divided into sections, mirroring the jurisdictions inherited from the tribunals which have been merged into the First-tier Tribunal.
Brown was previously Asa Griggs Candler professor of law at Emory University, and is now the Martin D.
On 31 October 2013, in another article said to be based on leaked documents, the paper reported that only 25,000 people – about 0.2% of all benefit recipients – were projected to transfer to the new programme by the time of the next general election in May 2015.
Individuals with tax payable during a calendar year must use the T1 to file their total income from all sources, including employment and self-employment income, interest, dividends, and capital gains, rental income, and so on.
Thereafter, the developing war with France had prompted the introduction of new forms of duty and further increases.
Prior to 2000, it was used to fund municipal services, the responsibility of the now-abolished Urban Council and Regional Council, through the Urban Services Department and Regional Services Department.
Personal income tax includes all applicable taxes, including all unvested social security contributions.
These included 43 luxurious customs houses built in a neo-classical style that Ledoux baptized ‘les Propylées de Paris’ (from the Greek propylaeum, a monumental gateway to a sacred enclosure).
States may choose to enter "reciprocal tax agreements" to exempt non-residents from some local taxes.
In the 2006 budget it was announced that the levy would in future rise annually in line with inflation, starting from 1 April 2007.
Each payment is typically treated as consisting of three components: a tax-free return of the seller’s basis; recognition of the remaining gain on the sale; and interest or investment return on the unpaid balance or funding assets.
CCH Incorporated was purchased by Wolters Kluwer, the Dutch publishing company on November 27, 1995.
In the inner circle around the King, thought began to be given to the creation of a new tax to which the rich and privileged would contribute.
Generally, while the net gain or loss is the same regardless of the classification of the debt (it will always be the difference between the basis of the burdened property and the amount of the debt), there are potentially huge tax differences.
Moldavia In 1741, Moldavian prince Grigore Ghica confirmed the obligation of each Jew to pay the crupca, an indirect tax on kosher meat similar to the Russian korobka.
At the 1998 federal election the party fielded 11 candidates for the House of Representatives and 6 for the Senate.
In the Republic of Ireland In the Republic of Ireland, P45 was also used as a reference to a form used by the Revenue Commissioners with the same function.
The tax credits were expanded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and most components will last until December 31, 2016.
Origin of term In the United States, the term "protest" as applied to a tax generally means "a declaration by a payer, esp.
Phantom distributions An exchange-traded fund (ETF) may choose to reinvest some of its realized capital gains instead of paying the money out as a distribution to unit holders.
Councils can use a mix of these different methodologies when assessing rates based on the value of holdings, for example land value for its general rate and capital value for a targeted rate.
Any income arising from sources outside Singapore and received in Singapore on or after 1 January 2004 by an individual (other than partners of a partnership) is exempt from tax.
"FM" was renamed Publications CCH Ltée in 1996 and was becoming one of the largest publishers of legislative information outside the Quebec government, producing French language products and reporting on Quebec provincial laws and regulations which are based on French Civil Law.
The Fair Work Commission previously decided in 2019 that it would not be appropriate to directly reduce the minimum wage increase that year from the Low and Middle Income Tax Offset.
A brief summary of the tax benefits is as follows: 30% up front income tax relief, which can be carried back to the previous tax year.
When all taxes were taken into account (income tax, property tax, GST and other indirect taxes), the top 10% of households accounted for 38% of the taxes paid, while the top 20% contributed 53% of all taxes.
The NTU favors either a Flat Tax or the FairTax (a national sales tax with rebate) for the United States, as opposed to the current income tax system.
When GST is combined with progressive taxes, and the revenues distributed to the poor, the total fiscal structure can be progressive.
(BdSt)) is a membership based organization conducting interest representation (political lobbying) as well as policy work in the field of fiscal and tax policy.
In July 2021, Tribunal judiciaire de Paris accepts Cairn's claim to seize Indian properties in France.
There is a complex relationship between taxable income and actual income, making it difficult to draw conclusions from the tables.
There is no requirement to file a T1 return for the year if the tax balance payable for that year is $0 or negative.
Others point out that the more important question to ask is not whether GST is regressive, but whether GST is more regressive than the alternative indirect taxes, namely, sales, excise and turnover tax (not income tax because that is a direct tax).
In 1951, after Tripolitania became part of the Kingdom of Libya, a new design showing the Tajura Mosque and a palm tree was issued.
Taxpayers are put on cash method of accounting in those instances where payment precedes performance or due date of an obligation.
Maine: Both homeowners and renters can qualify for the program here, which is based on yearly income as well as the percentage of income tax paid and certain residency requirements.
Chinese historiography often attributes the collapse of dynasties to the imposition of heavy taxes and levies.
Regulatory and tax-law uncertainty: although the basic installment-sale framework is well established, commentators emphasize that taxpayers should carefully review current IRS guidance and obtain professional tax advice before entering into complex deferral arrangements.
At the end of the calendar year, the entrepreneur has to file an annual tax return in which it has again calculated the tax.
The administration of real estate tax is handled by the municipality in whose territory the real estate lies.
Customs and fees The national budget and its allocation of 2018 The national budget for 2018 consists of AFN 327 billion and represents a 17 percent decrease from that of the previous year (2017: AFN 429 billion).
18), and was designed to impose tax relative to the prosperity of the taxpayer, but without the controversy that then surrounded the idea of income tax.
As such, it has vested with the powers, such as in the areas of the arrest and detention of suspects contravening customs and import/export laws, as well as the confiscation of contraband.
The Smeed Report of 1962 suggested that "road users should pay the costs that he imposes upon others", including road costs (construction, maintenance, lighting), congestion (the delay the motorist causes to others) and social costs (risk, noise, fumes).
The State Tax Authority of Lithuania is a founding member of Intra-European Organisation of Tax Administrations since 1996.
The all events test is two-pronged concerning the recognition of income, three-pronged when dealing with deductions.
See also Employer transportation benefits in the United States Income tax Payroll tax Wheel tax == References ==
Germany In the 18th and 19th centuries, Germany appears to have had a "kosher meat tax" imposed by municipalities and used to support the local Jewish community.
History The Gas Infrastructure Development Cess (GIDC) was introduced in November 2011 under the Pakistan Peoples' Party (PPP) government led by Asif Ali Zardari to finance the Iran–Pakistan gas pipeline.
Geothermal systems Geothermal for businesses is using the earth as a heat and cooling source to lower the cost of air conditioning and heating.
Between 1949 and 1951 while Cyrenaica was an independent emirate postage stamps were used for revenue purposes.
He was involved in numerous court actions and was convicted in the United States and Australia for false statements, and placed into bankruptcy twice in Australia.
Recently many states have instituted voucher programs or scholarship programs allowing a foster family to choose a private school which is paid for with a scholarship or voucher.
unlike an Irish QIAIF), which would attract adverse attention from other tax authorities (under tax treaty rules), or regulators (e.g.
While Isabella I considered applying the alcabala to Spain's American colonies as early as 1503, in fact it was not applied there until the late 16th century.
In some cases, individual cities may be barred from enacting a commuter tax even though the state governments may impose a non-resident income tax.
A duty of 35% is imposed on imports of personal hygiene items, incense and weapons from unfriendly countries.
The Senior Associate Justice has no constitutional or statutory duties, but usually acts as Acting Presiding Justice during the absence of the Presiding Justice.
GFC was chaired by Robert Napier, chairman of the Met Office and former chief executive of the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF).
A relatively high proportion of government revenue comes from consumption taxes whilst revenue from capital taxes is one of the lowest in the European Union.
Sellers were supposed to notify the tax farmer of transactions within two days and pay the tax to the alcabalero within three days after that, again on possible penalty of four times the tax owed.
It is important to recognise that the Nil Rate Band is treated in the legislation not as an exemption from liability from Inheritance Tax, but instead has the effect of making certain transfers of value liable to tax at a rate of 0%.
Aggressive funds invest more than 90% of savings in growth assets and less than 10% in income assets.
The program is a partnership between federal, provincial and territorial governments and First Nations in Canada.
As a result, no taxpayer is ever compelled to donate to such a program in violation of conscience and therefore no taxpayer can be harmed by the program.
This was replaced in 1898 with a design similar to the original 1890 issue but with some differences in the stamp's border.
VAT and business taxes The VAT or Value Added Tax, is a tax on imports and sales paid to the Faroese treasury.
Insolvency will only be considered when the borrower's total debt exceeds the market value of the assets.
History Before 2006 the amount of IFA tax payable could be deducted against the corporate tax payable (or carried forward for 2 years).
Others, such as Charles McVety and REAL Women of Canada, argued that the provision recognized that public funding should not be available for movies which were offensive to large numbers of people.
External links Tribunals, Ministry of Justice Tribunal Decisions, Judiciary of England and Wales == References ==
Bicameral Conference Committee The Bicameral Conference Committee consolidated the bills passed by the House of Representatives and the Senate.
Businesses must inform HM Revenue & Customs within 30 days of forming the intention of receiving taxable premiums as the insurer.
Kingsland sold his interest in the company and CCH Canadian Limited became a wholly owned affiliate of Commerce Clearing House, Inc.
This system has the potential to allow for tax avoidance practiced by individuals who derive income from abroad, gain tax exemptions via their non-resident status there, and use this income outside Singapore.
See also Depreciation recapture Quantity Surveyor Section 179 depreciation deduction == References ==
The incentive the SSTP is offering companies is that rather than try to work out how much tax a company owes for each locality, they can instead use a CSP (certified service provider).
In the United Kingdom In the UK, the front section, Part 1, is given by the old employer to HM Revenue and Customs, who then record the pay and tax details on to the individual's taxpayer record.
In around 1998, the same design was issued with redrawn inscriptions, and in around 2011 it was issued in a slightly larger size.
This system ensures that the tax is levied only on the value added at each stage, preventing cascading taxes and promoting transparency.
If food could be claimed to be hot only incidentally, it could be zero-rated - this would apply to freshly baked bread, but also pies, pasties and similar items.
Revealed more than 150,000 administrative violations, impose administrative fines worth several hundred million rubles.
Imposta sul valore degli immobili situati all'estero (LVIE) is a wealth tax on real estate properties owned outside of Italy.
Physical layout The Wall was slightly more than three meters high and 24 km long, following the then-boundaries of the city of Paris.
The taxpayer has not yet performed services allowing for the collection of income but through Revenue Ruling the IRS has determined that recognition of income is proper because cash is in hand.
The bill did not pass the Senate prior to the dissolution of Parliament for the 2008 general election.
Every corporate taxpayer can choose between straight-lined and accelerated depreciation of tangible assets.
Employee stock option plans (ESOPs) have also been brought under fringe benefits tax from the fiscal year 2007–08.
Arguments against such a tax are that it acts as an incentive for businesses to relocate outside of the jurisdiction, along with their residents.
10) received royal assent on 19 May 1662, with the first payment due on 29 September 1662, Michaelmas.
A new tax was imposed on employers by India's Finance Act 2005 from the financial year commencing April 1, 2005.
This incurs a taxable capital gain for unit holders and must be added to the ACB of the ETF to prevent double taxation.
With the implementation of the TRAIN Law, all PCSO lotto prizes are taxed at 20% if the prize exceeds ₱10,000.
United States of New Granada In 1861 a 20c stamp was issued inscribed Estados Unidos de Nueva Granada, or the United States of New Granada.
Brown was featured on the cover of Bloomberg Businessweek in March 2021 with the tagline "Is the Tax Code Racist?" The feature article about her outlines some of her research on the ways the existing tax code preferences white Americans.
Business and personal taxes Some taxes are, depending on the circumstances, paid by both individuals and companies, and government National Insurance contributions The second largest source of government revenue is National Insurance contributions (NICs).
Up to recently, these loans would have normally been held by [Irish] banks and so that was no issue about deducting [Irish withholding tax] from interest.
In October 2018, State and Federal Governments agreed to remove female hygiene products such as pads and tampons from the GST.
Discontent with these policies contributed to rebellion and ultimately the defeat of the Qin and establishment of the Han dynasty.
Social security/Medicare burden and subsidy to sole breadwinners and nonearning parents In connection with other taxation issues in the United States, one concern is that these marriages are subsidizing one-earner/one-nonearner parent couples in Social Security and Medicare benefits.
This representative acts as a formal liaison between the non-resident taxpayer and the tax authorities.
Opposition In response to the ensuing row, a number of campaigns were launched in order to try to prevent the tax rise on the Cornish pasty.
There he also discussed the "Saladin tithe." Collection of the tithe The Saladin tithe was a literal tithe of 10% on revenues and movable properties.
The activities of the Service are directed and coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine through the Minister of Finance.
Compliance burden - The taxpayer will have an increased compliance burden immediately and going forward, as they will now be required to remit and report taxes.
The initial tax is the ISV (Imposto Sobre Veículos, tax on vehicles), and is paid when the car is first registered in Portugal.
The main objectives of the agency include: helping the taxpayers with their tax obligations and rights; implementation and enforcement of tax laws, primarily collecting and administering the taxes; collection of revenue for the state budget.
However, this is limited to 14% of DKK 470,000 corresponding to a maximum annual deduction of DKK 65,800.
With the discovery of Roman and other foreign coins from the archaeological excavations done at the site, this can be identified as an ancient trade centre of some importance.
"Reducing Carbon Emissions from UK Business: The role of the Climate Change Levy and Agreements: Government Response to the Committee's Second Report of Session 2007–08".
Some of the high value postage and revenue stamps, such as the £2 stamp issued in 1921, were primarily intended for fiscal use.
Clyne was subsequently prosecuted for making a false statement to the Reserve Bank, namely the copy of the receipt.
Wolters Kluwer's core publishing markets include legal, tax and business, health, science, and education, in 26 countries, as well as North America.
The case is closely linked to Cairn's partner in India, Vedanta, and to concepts such Ex post facto law in the form of retrospective taxation, bilateral investment treaties, and international arbitration between private and sovereign states.
Cooperation and coordination with other Government Departments and stakeholders in respect of imports and exports.
Certain goods and services are exempt from VAT, and others are subject to VAT at a lower rate of 5 per cent (the reduced rate, such as domestic gas supplies) or 0 per cent ("zero-rated", such as most food and children's clothing).
The tax rates given for federations (such as the USA and Canada) are averages and vary by state or province.
The main aim of GST 2.0 was to simplify the tax structure, reduce compliance burden on businesses, and adjust tax rates according to economic needs.
Special needs scholarships assist children in the foster care system as well as children with disabilities.
The State Tax Inspectorate (Lithuanian: Valstybinė Mokesčių Inspekcija) or VMI is the tax authority in the Republic of Lithuania.
Tax rates and withholding tables apply separately at the federal, most state, and some local levels.
The original bill contained a practical shortcoming in that it did not distinguish between owners and occupiers and was potentially a major burden on the poor as there were no exemptions.
The act extends such relief for three years, applying to debts discharged in calendar years 2007 through 2009.
Libya first issued revenue stamps when it was an Italian colony in 1913 and continues to do so to this day.
The time of recognition may matter for a number of reasons, including the time value of money and the section 1211(b) limitation on capital losses in a single year.
Insolvency – An insolvent borrower whose mortgage debt has been forgiven may not be obligated to pay taxes on all or part of the cancelled debt.
A "qualifying company" under Section 110 of the 1997 TCA means a company which: Qualifying assets The list of "qualifying assets" which can be held inside an Irish Section 110 SPV is large (it has been extended with subsequent Finance Acts).
In his view, uncertainty about the availability of tax credits would make it more difficult to get financing for movies in Canada, which would likely drive production out of Canada to other countries with more favourable tax regimes.
When a return is accepted by HMRC they provide a certificate without which it is impossible to register a change in the land ownership.
Nye, published by Princeton University Press as part of its Princeton Economic History of the Western World series.
Mr Asia In June 1983, Clyne appeared in court as a prosecution witness to a drug smuggling case in the Magistrates Court.
Land that is the site of a church is exempt, but other land held by religious institutions is not exempt.
This came after requests of the fertilizer companies due to a lack of liquidity in the industry to pay arrears.
The fringe benefit tax was temporarily suspended in the 2009 Union budget of India by the then Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee.
Other types of land are levied based on their area ranging from CZK 2 to CZK 5 per square meter for business activities and CZK 0.20 in other cases.
With this legislation, imports from the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus are subject to the rates of duty set forth in Column 2 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS).
The stated aim of the Commission was to bring about green fiscal reform, that is to move taxation away from bads to goods.
In the early 20th century a decision was taken to unite the two boards responsible for indirect taxation; the Board of Customs and Excise was formed by the Revenue Act 1909 (9 Edw.
In the United States of America, the Tax Reform Act may refer to: Tax Reform Act of 1969 Tax Reform Act of 1976 Tax Reform Act of 1986
The eFiling service is of an international standard and is comparable to online tax submission services offered in the United States, Australia, Singapore, Ireland, Chile and France.
The development of the fiscal situation in Afghanistan during 21st century Since the beginning of the 21st century, governmental revenues have aggregately increased.
The Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) is a series of UK tax reliefs launched in 1994 in succession to the Business Expansion Scheme.
In 1978, Grover Norquist was named executive director; after his departure in 1982, he was replaced by former Maryland State Senate Majority Leader George Snyder.
The party gained 0.02% (2,312) first preference votes nationally for the House of Representatives and 0.14% (15,276) first preference votes nationally for the Senate.
A TIN may be assigned by the Social Security Administration (SSA) or by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
This issue was printed by Harrison and Sons and it consisted of fourteen values, four of which have not yet been recorded.
However, foreign income earned by a Singapore company may require dual taxation once in the income origin country and in Singapore.
20, 2007" "The Mortgage Forgiveness Debt Relief Act and Debt Cancellation" "Clock ticking on forgiven-debt tax break" "Mortgage Debt Relief Act of 2007" http://taxprof.typepad.com/files/h.r.-8.pdf
The fringe benefits tax (FBT) was the tax applied to most, although not all, fringe benefits in India.
Following the Morrison government's victory at the federal election on 18 May, treasurer Josh Frydenberg handed down his budget.
The tax relief will be the same within each tax bracket and will decrease incrementally with each increase in the income bracket so that those with the lowest of incomes will receive the highest of property tax reductions.
Ohira met a lot of opposition within his own party and gave up on his attempt after his party suffered badly in the 1979 election.
On 23 January, Taylor stated that the Coalition would "absolutely not" support any changes to the tax cuts.
This reduces errors, ensures transparency, and strengthens compliance, benefiting both the administration and taxpayers.
These values take into account any improvements made to buildings on the property, such as through renovations.
His or Her Majesty's Excise refers to 'inland' duties levied on articles at the time of their manufacture.
Special circumstances Rail Joint doctrine Whether or not there is cancellation-of-indebtedness income can sometimes be ambiguous and controversial.
Electoral Calculus maintained a running projection of seats according to latest polls on its website.
Under this strategy drivers in the countryside would be likely to pay less, as rural motorists are currently overtaxed according to the study.
In France, the generalized social contribution (French: Contribution sociale généralisée or CSG) is a tax created on 18 December 1990 to fund the social protection system (namely health insurance and family benefits) and, since 2018, unemployment benefits.
The Board is responsible for the association’s management and has the power to appoint a CEO, who works under the guidelines of the Board.
The list focuses on the main types of taxes: corporate tax (excluding dividend taxes), individual income tax, capital gains tax, wealth tax (excluding property tax), property tax, inheritance tax and sales tax (incl.
Whether a listed property qualifies as being used predominantly for business is determined by section 280F(b)(3).
Judges may be permanent office holders, known as salaried judges, or part time, known as fee paid judges.
Among the Incumbent members, Jean Marie Bacorro-Villena is the longest-serving Associate Justice, With a tenure of 2451 days (6 years, 290 days) as of April 24, 2026; the most recent justice to enter the court is Henry Angeles, whose tenure started on October 11, 2022.
The same transaction may include an agreement to transfer shares which may trigger a liability to SDRT, and the agreement may later be completed by a transfer of the shares which is liable to stamp duty.
It was a significant social, cultural, and architectural force in England, Scotland, France and Ireland during the 18th and 19th centuries.
In this case, where a coin, by reason of its value to collectors or by reason of the intrinsic worth of its contents, has a fair market value in excess of its face value, it is treated as "property other than money" for purposes of 26 U.S.C.
The taxpayer is the individual heir, who has acquired the inheritance thanks to the decision of the court.
Income tax The value of a vehicle bought by a company for the dedicated use of its staff is treated as a taxable benefit for that individual, and assessed by HMRC with other income for income tax purposes.
This includes conducting audits, reviewing financial records, and analyzing tax returns to identify discrepancies or irregularities.
The camp of Hamilton was for raising taxes (mainly property tax) centrally in order to increase the capacity of budget (also power) of the Government.
State-level administration Under SSUTA, sales taxes will be remitted to a single state agency and business will no longer be required to submit multiple tax returns for each state in which they are conducting business.
In Northern Ireland, implementation was held up by disputes over policy and funding between parties in the Northern Ireland Assembly; the roll-out of Universal Credit in Northern Ireland began in September 2017.
The federal government provides monthly payments to low-income families with children, and the others design and deliver benefits and services to meet the needs of families with children in each jurisdiction.
On 31 July 1684, a fire in Churchill, Oxfordshire, destroyed 20 houses and many other buildings, and killed four people.
The tithe was assessed by dioceses, rather than by shires, and local sheriffs had no role in the collection of the tithe.
The New Zealand Prime Minister, Rob Muldoon, noted Clyne's presence and suggested that the Investment Commission would have to obtain assurances that the "international financier" could live up to his promises of raising millions of dollars.
The Government increased the Assurance Package by $1.4 billion due to inflation, bringing the total to $8.040 billion.
At the same time, the Treaty on the Functioning of the Customs Union within the Multilateral Trading System entered into force.
Rail Joint is nonetheless good law, and has been expanded to encompass other situations where the taxpayer received nothing of value in exchange for the debt, such as when a guarantor of a loan who did not enjoy the benefit of the loan settles it for less than the face amount.
SARS eFiling provides free services to individual taxpayers, trusts, companies and tax practitioners to submit tax returns, submit declarations and make relevant payments in an online environment.
Dartford crossing In 2003 the Dartford Crossing construction debt was paid off, which had been expected to result in the scrapping of the toll fee to cross.
In the 2016 autumn statement the new Chancellor Philip Hammond stated that the standard rate would increase from 10% to 12% from 1 June 2017.
It is known for striking actions such as the “National Debt Clock” installed in Berlin’s government district and the “Taxpayers Memorial Day”.
The gross collections total only reflects the revenue collected from the categories listed in the table, and not the entire revenue collected by the IRS.
Established staffing level of the federal tax police: on January 1, 1994: 21,500 units; on January 1, 1995: 43,800 units (later the number of staff reaches 53,000 units excluding staff).
Taxes on the transfer of property When a property is sold, the profit from the sale is subject to a capital gains tax, and is to be paid to the national government.
Scope and purpose Introduced on 1 April 2001 under the Finance Act 2000, it was forecast to cut annual emissions by 2.5 million tonnes by 2010, and forms part of the UK's Climate Change Programme.
Origin The origin of the current rate schedules is the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (IRC), which is separately published as Title 26 of the United States Code.
She said that the test of "contrary to public policy" had been used in the regulations, and that the clause had been included by previous drafts of the bill proposed by the previous Liberal government.
The National Taxpayers Union opposed this bill and criticised politicians from both parties saying, "this year, as the limit approached, most Democrats refused to discuss the debt problem at all.
The institute's focus is on supporting members' professional development and sharing best practices.
Capital gains tax (CGT) deferral – an investor can defer capital gains realised on a different asset, where disposal of that asset was less than 12 months before the EIS investment or less than 36 months after it.
At the end of each accounting period, manufacturing companies would have their SET payments refunded, along with a 7s 6d bounty or premium per employee (SEP).
The party was automatically de-registered in 2006, along with all non-parliamentary political parties, as a result of the Electoral and Referendum Amendment (Electoral Integrity and Other Measures) Act 2006.
Clyne's main argument was that the whole of his income belonged to Warlock Investments of Liechtenstein.
Most functions of the Tax Police of Russia and the staff at 16,000 units transferred to the Directorate for Taxations Crimes of the Russian Ministry of Internal Affairs.
These are defined as lineal descendants, spouses or civil partners of such lineal descendants, or former spouses or civil partners who have not become anyone else's spouse or civil partner.
In the case of the Catholic Church, the purposes are specified in article 48 of the 1985 law: "worship needs of the people, support of the clergy, charitable activities in favour of Italian society and the Third World".
After public criticism, prime minister Imran Khan withdrew the ordinance and ordered the AGP to approach the Supreme Court.
Brown's book, The Whiteness of Wealth: How the Tax System Impoverishes Black Americans--and How We Can Fix It, views tax policies through a critical race theory lens and examines the Black-white wealth gap with an eye towards tax reforms that could help lessen this gap.
GSP is the Gross State Product Fiscal year 2012 This table lists the tax revenue collected from each state, plus the District of Columbia and the territory of Puerto Rico by the IRS in fiscal year 2012, which ran from October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012.
The major item from the Henry Review implemented by the Rudd government was the move to create a Resource Super Profits Tax.
The first revenue stamp of Colombia was issued on 1 September 1858, one year before the first Colombian postage stamp.
Hybrids receive a discounted rate, while electric cars do not pay ISV (tax at the time of initial registration).
This allowed for reduced capital investment and encouraged businesses to develop their resource faster.
1930 consists of at least five stamps which depict palm trees and is inscribed State of Muscat and Oman in Arabic.
Impact on taxation In July 2016, financial commentators were confused that Ireland had incurred €380 million per annum in additional EU GDP levies (earlier), but given Apple (in the 2015 budget, per above), an effective tax rate of 0% for the Apple IP that was onshored.
The second issue depicts Al Jalali Fort in Muscat, and it is inscribed Sultanate of Muscat and Oman in Arabic, and dated 1365 AH (1945–46 AD).
Reception Journalist Friedrich Küppersbusch argued in 2021: “The Taxpayers' Association is a lobby made up of the Union and the FDP that wants to implement tax cuts for its members, the majority of whom are very wealthy.
The Green Fiscal Commission (GFC) was a British body set up in 2007 to examine the best way of implementing green taxes (also known as ecotax) in the United Kingdom.
From 5001 to 12500 2% Tax will be deducted, From 12501 to 100000 10% Tax will be deducted and, From 100000 and Above 20% Tax will be deducted or imposed
Critical reception Nye's thesis has generated substantial scholarly debate, particularly regarding methodology and measurement.
Reyes Court (1990–1991) Members of the Acosta Court (1992–2012) Members of the Del Rosario Court (2013-2025) Members of the Ringpis-Liban Court (2025-Present) The rule of seniority The Associate Justices of the Court are usually ordered according to the date of their appointment.
Ireland Business rates and domestic rates existed in Ireland as part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and were retained after independence.
History The CSG was created by the Second Rocard government (fr) to diversify the financing sources of the French social protection system.
See also Income tax in the United States Progressivity in United States income tax Standard deduction General: Tax bracket == References ==
Additionally, Congress and the legislatures of the various states are prohibited from conditioning the right to vote in federal elections on payment of a poll tax or other types of tax by the Twenty-fourth Amendment.
History The service was originally launched under a different name and business model in 2000 by private sector companies.
Even though the HMRC website itself says that SDLT is due within 14 days of the transaction completing, Mortgage lenders may require that the Stamp Duty is paid upon completion itself.
The revenues are significant (75 billion euros) and represent almost two-thirds of taxes allocated to social protection (65%).
This probably is one of the factors that led to a significant reform in Sweden called “tax reform of the century” in 1990 and 1991, introduced by the then Social Democratic government.
Similar overprints were issued on Queen Elizabeth II revenues in 1956, and these remained in use until the 1970s.
Judges who assume senior status enter a kind of retirement in which they remain on the bench but vacate their seats, thus allowing the U.S.
Unlike most taxes in Spain at the time, no social classes were entirely exempt (for example, nobles and clergy had to pay the tax), although from 1491 clergy were exempt on trade that was "not for gain." Certain towns were also, at times, given exemptions.
Government of India in the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal of India, as well as a case in the High Court of Delhi.
Goods and Services Tax 2.0, also known as GST 2.0 is a upgraded version of the original Indian GST system, officially launched in 22 September 2025 to streamline indirect taxation across the country.
Yet Patridge, in common with many other people who know what the law requires, could not say just which provisions of the Code make income taxable and prevent evasion.
The 2006 budget removed that possibility and instead the IFA became a deductible expense in the computation of the corporate tax.
There are consumption taxes and excise taxes at the national level, an enterprise tax and a vehicle tax at the prefectural level and a property tax at the municipal level.
The Gold Coast, now known as Ghana, is located in West Africa and is home to various Niger-Congo ethnic groups.
Such an authority is essential to the relation between a mother country and her colonies; and necessary for the common good of all.
The assessment comprises two components: the improvement (or building value) and the land or site value.
Charitable activities Since 2011, National Benefit Authority has maintained The Akiva and Bilah Medjuck Foundation a philanthropic group aiming "to give those with disabilities a chance at a better life".
This ordinance targeted sectors including CNG, fertilizers, and power generation, providing them the option to settle outstanding cess amounts under specified conditions.
GST is levied on most transactions in the production process, but is in many cases refunded to all parties in the chain of production other than the final consumer.
Republic of Colombia The Republic of Colombia was created in 1886 and revenue stamps marked Republica de Colombia were issued from 1887.
Tax rates by countries and territories See also Corporate haven List of countries by social welfare spending List of countries by tax revenue Tax Freedom Day Tax haven Tax rates in Europe VAT rates around the world Welfare state Notes == References ==
High-street bookmakers used the introduction of this tax as a reason to reduce the payout on some each-way bets (where a horse is placed in the first two or three, depending on the number of runners) from a quarter the odds to a fifth the odds.
Taxation is based on the source principle, in which only income earned at source, in this case in Singapore, or those derived from overseas but received in Singapore, are taxable.
The "P" code refers to documents in the PAYE series, in the same way that self-assessment documents are prefixed "SA" (e.g., SA100 – Individual tax return) and tax credits paperwork is prefixed "TC" (e.g., TC600 – Tax credits application).
Use of rate schedules To use a rate schedule, a taxpayer must know their filing status and amount of taxable income.
The only support that the court can find for this argument amongst plaintiff's numerous filings is a letter dated May 7, 1981 from the American Law Division of the Congressional Research Service (plaintiff's Exhibit 7).
Additionally, the state can generate future revenue by having a company register in their state to collect and remit certain taxes.
Each year the Italian Episcopal Conference publishes the proportions it assigns under various headings.
In February 2019, the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions, Amber Rudd, conceded that "there were challenges with the initial roll-out of universal credit.
This led to the introduction of the GIDC Act in May 2015, aiming to address the legal issues, and allowed compress natural gas (CNG) companies to pay only half of their unpaid cess.
The government spends the most money on is security, accounting for 41 percent of the national budget.
The 1867 designs were reissued in new colours in 1885, and this time further values and designs were also added.
The United States federal energy tax policy historically focused on the increased production of oil and natural gas with no focus on alternative energy or conservation.
Internal Revenue Code sections 1031 through 1045 provide the most commonly implicated nonrecognition rules, including the section 1031 rule for Like-Kind Exchanges.
The Trussell Trust found demand for food aid rose an average of a 52% in universal credit areas in 2017, contrasted with 13% in areas where it had not been introduced.
Appeal In most cases, appeals against decisions of the First-tier Tribunal can be made to the Upper Tribunal, but only with the permission of the First-tier Tribunal or the Upper Tribunal.
Thus, federal income tax wages may differ from Social Security wages which may differ from state wages.
At higher incomes, this equivalence is lost but there is still an advantage if the two incomes are sufficiently different.
Granadine Confederation The first Colombian revenue stamp was a black 20 centavos value for the Granadine Confederation.
It depicted the national emblem on a floral background and inscribed Sultanate of Oman in both Arabic and English.
Other taxes Taxes applied in Estonia that were not mentioned previously: Excises on electricity, alcohol, tobacco, fuel and packaging.
This makes a total of just fifteen revenues, with most sought after one being the 10s stamp of 1870.
This is conditional upon the deceased having left that smaller residence, or assets of equivalent value, to direct descendants.
It was endorsed by newspapers that had an 80% share of the national Sunday press audience (the five Sunday newspapers endorsing the Conservatives had a daily circulation of more than 4 million) and 57% of the national daily press (a combined circulation of 4,429,460).
Canada Revenue Agency Capital gain References External links Canada Revenue Agency Website - Adjusted Cost Base
The refund is equal to either $200 or the amount of property tax paid subtracted subtracted by the property tax cap which is set at 1% of the household income, whichever is less.
For taxation in the United States, the Limits on Depreciation Deduction (Section 280F) was enacted to limit certain deductions on depreciable assets.
First, he found employment in the county assessor's office and in 1961 established Hillcrest vineyards on 20 acres of land near the Callahan Ridge.
Lebanese Christians, and some Shia Muslims believe Qana to have been the actual location of this event.
Nitrogen is a vital nutrient in the growth and development of yeasts and is usually provided from the wine grapes themselves.
It has also been proposed that DMDC inhibits the enzymes alcohol dehydrogenase and glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase by causing the methoxycarbonylation of their histidine components.
The process itself is a slow one with compounds such as the anthocyanins needing to pass through the cell membrane of the skins to come into contact with the wine.
B Back-Blend Blending unfermented, fresh grape juice into a fully fermented wine in order to add sweetness.
Several species of acetic acid bacteria are used in industry for production of certain foods and chemicals.
Gao has spoken out about how the climate crisis is affecting wine production, in particular causing damage to the vines due to increasingly harsh winters.
The process produces wastewater, pomace, and lees that require collection, treatment, and disposal or beneficial use.
Here he ran a vineyard which, at approximately 30 hectares, was the largest in the so-called eastern borderlands of what became, after 1918 the Polish Republic.
Manual riddling is still done for some Prestige Cuvées in Champagne, but has otherwise been largely abandoned because of the high labour costs.
Food Microbiol.Volume 163, issue 2-3, 204-213 External links International conference on acetic acid bacteria
Later developments Around 1910 management of the company passed to his son Robert, followed in 1928 by Robert's nephew (Thomas' grandson) Thomas Mayfield Hardy.
On 11 May 1910, he married May Marian Byard (died 1967), the eldest daughter of Hahndorf College headmaster D.
Ernest Singer is a winemaker in Japan known for promoting the use of the Koshu grape in Japanese wines.
It can also affect the sensory aspects of a wine, making the mouthfeel seem smoother and adding potential complexity in the flavor and aroma of the wine.
After two years working at various vineyards, he began working in the cellar at Château La Fleur Cailleau.
Topciu's mandate in Sfatul ended on May 18, 1918, when the Bulgarian-and-Gagauz delegation replaced him with another community member.
With red wines, the must is pressed after primary fermentation, which separates the skins and other solid matter from the liquid.
In December 1943, Thorn was elected deputy leader of the Country Party under Arthur Watts, replacing William Patrick.
Sparkling wines include wines labelled as Champagne, Cava, Mousseux, Crémant, Espumoso, Sekt and Spumante.
Yeast ceases its activity whenever all of the sugar in must has been converted into other chemicals or whenever the alcohol content has reached 15% alcohol per unit volume; a concentration strong enough to halt the enzymatic activity of almost all strains of yeast.
He scored the cantata for four vocal soloists, a four-part choir and a Baroque instrumental ensemble of trombone to reinforce the bass in the opening chorus, horn to support the soprano in the last movement, two oboes d'amore, strings and continuo.
Grape-treading or grape-stomping is part of the method of maceration used in traditional wine-making.
The method is known as the méthode champenoise, but the Champagne producers have successfully lobbied the European Union to restrict the use of that term within the EU only to wines produced in Champagne.
Viticulture In 1903, he graduated from Wincenty Pol state secondary school Wincenty Pol state secondary school at Ternopil, obtaining high marks in his school final exams.
Early life Thorn was born in York, Western Australia, to Isabella (née Blakiston) and Thomas Henry Thorn.
She sourced the organic fruit from her orchard and the Kiwi Growers Cooperative Society in Arunachal Pradesh.
Potassium – important for the uptake and utilization of phosphate Biotin – involved in the synthesis of proteins, fatty acids and nucleic acids.
The keys and time signatures are taken from the book on all cantatas by the Bach scholar Alfred Dürr, using the symbol for common time (4/4).
Elyakum Ostashinski or Elyakum Austshinsky (Hebrew: אליקום אוסטשינסקי), born 1909, died 1983, was the first mayor of Rishon LeZion, and later CEO of the Vineyard Association.
Négociants, who are also called wine merchants/traders, were the dominant force in the wine trade until the last 25 years for various reasons: Historically the owners of vineyards and producers of wine had no direct access to buyers.
Personal life A Roman Catholic, Reynell was a member of the Adelaide Hunt Club and enjoyed polo in his spare time.
Bohun had a reputation for being an excellent physician and was hired to perform as the personal physician for Thomas West, 3rd Baron De La Warr, who was the first governor of Virginia appointed by the Virginia Company of London.
Biblical account The second chapter of the Gospel of John states that Jesus was at a wedding (Ancient Greek: γάμος) in Cana with his disciples.
The electoral district includes the Barossa Valley wine region where Max Schubert was born and began working at Penfolds.
During carbonic maceration, an anaerobic environment is created by pumping carbon dioxide into a sealed container filled with whole grape clusters.
In 2007 she and her father founded Silver Heights winery on land he was already cultivating in Ningxia.
In 1997 Max was posthumously honoured with the creation of the Electoral district of Schubert in the South Australian House of Assembly, a seat in the lower house of the South Australian state parliament.
After graduating from the University of Paris in 1862, between 1864 and 1867 he served as a clerical officer at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
The yeast accomplishes this by utilizing glucose through a series of metabolic pathways that, in the presence of oxygen, produces not only large amounts of energy for the cell but also many different intermediates that the cell needs to function.
Process variations Different techniques are employed to adjust the level of sugar in the grape must.
Babich was the firm's winemaker for 35 vintages, and took over as managing director in the mid-1990s.
the white Savagnin and the reds Poulsard and Trousseau that are used to create highly unusual and rare wines.
They may also bind with the tannins in the wine to reduce the perception of bitterness or astringency in the wine.
Even so, in 2008, Singer's Koshu wine "Shizen Cuvee Denis Dubourdieu" was the first Japanese wine to be accepted by the EU for import.
He temporarily returned to France to serve in the French army during World War I between 1915 and 1919.
Base wine generally contains smaller amounts (up to 20 mg/L) of sulphur than regular wines, as it creates undesired copper(II) sulfate in reaction with copper in the pot stills during distillation into brandy.
Career After returning to Rishon LeZion, Ostashinski became director of the agricultural department of the Farmers Association, and director of the department of rehabilitation grower Citrus Marketing Board.
In years where the harvest is exceptional, a vintage (millesime) is declared and the wine must mature for at least three years.
In winemaking, clarification and stabilization are the processes by which insoluble matter suspended in the wine is removed before bottling.
Emma Gao (Chinese: 高源; pinyin: Gāo Yuán; born 1978) is a Chinese oenologist, who is the chief winemaker at Silver Heights winery, one of China's most prestigious vineyards.
He incorporated his winemaking enterprise as Asagiri Wine Company and was able to get the EU to accept the first Japanese wine for import.
When the sugar food source for the yeast and necessary nutrients such as nitrogen run out, or the alcohol level of the wine reaches such a point to where it is toxic for the yeast, the cells die and sink to the bottom of the fermentation vessel.
Continuous screw A continuous screw press differs from the above presses in that it does not process a single batch of grapes at a time.
Other techniques Semi-carbonic maceration is the winemaking technique where grapes are put through a short period of carbonic maceration, followed by conventional yeast fermentations.
It is produced by concentrating the teinturier grape Rubired, a cross between Alicante Ganzin and Tinta Cão, has 68% sugar and sells for approximately $135 a gallon.
Jesus was doing in His Father's house, it may be, what was then being done in every house in Jerusalem.
Topciu described the controversy as a one-man intrigue by Vladimir Croitoru, whom he expelled from the party in September; by then, Sereda had been confirmed as the PNC organizer in Bulboaca.
Basket press One of the earliest styles of mechanical press, these can range from a simple wooden basket with vertical slats and a capstan providing pressure to large hydraulic presses that can even be enclosed to prevent exposure to oxygen.
In 1990, Derenoncourt was offered a position at the Corre-Macquin family's cellar at the Château Pavie-Macquin vineyard, and in 1996 was hired as a winemaker by Stephan von Neipperg to his estates, including Château Canon-la-Gaffelière and the "super cuvée" La Mondotte.
Promoted to lieutenant colonel, he was killed shortly after on 28 August at the Battle of Hill 60, aged 31.
In the case of a stuck fermentation, a winemaker may wish to transfer the must to a second vessel and use stronger, more aggressive yeasts with high fermentation temperatures to re-initiate the fermentation process.
The most common yeast associated with winemaking is Saccharomyces cerevisiae which has been favored due to its predictable and vigorous fermentation capabilities, tolerance of relatively high levels of alcohol and sulfur dioxide as well as its ability to thrive in normal wine pH between 2.8 and 4.
Galets roulés are components of the terrain, or terroir, and a distinguishing feature of many of the vineyards in the Côtes du Rhône AOC and more specifically Châteauneuf-du-Pape AOC and other top wine-producing areas in the regions such as Gigondas AOC and Vacqueyras AOC.
Findings including Hasmonean coins and ostraca using the Jewish script indicate its population in ancient times was predominantly Jewish.
Shortly after, her father, also a winemaker, spent several weeks in France and upon his return, he encouraged his daughter to pursue the same craft.
Cornelius died from myeloma in Blenheim, on 11 April 2026, at the age of 49, having been diagnosed with the condition in late 2025.
Unlike normal fermentation where yeast converts sugar into alcohol, carbonic maceration works by enzymes within the grape breaking down the cellular matter to form ethanol and other chemical properties.
All of these cuttings had been collected in 1959, from Louis Martini's Stanly Ranch Vineyard in Carneros, California with the exception of Zinfandel which had been sourced locally from the Doerner family who had come to the Umpqua Valley from Nap in the 1880s.
These conferences however, were not limited only to Catholics as Father Edward Dowling is noted to have hosted conferences where Protestant and Jewish couples attended.
The Jura is an eastern French winemaking region located between Burgundy and Switzerland - and its location has meant that some unique grape varieties (e.g.
Bob McLean (27 September 1947 – 9 April 2015) was an Australian winemaker known as a key promoter of Australian wine abroad.
In April of that year, the Romanian People's Tribunals, which investigated war crimes, had issued an invitation for "D.
He was educated at Henderson High School, and after leaving school, he began working for the family company in 1958.
In beer- and wine-making, one crushed Campden tablet is typically used per US gallon (3.8 L) of must or wort.
In June 2008, Derenoncourt and Vignerons Consultants was hired by Francis Ford Coppola to work on the Napa Valley property Rubicon Estate Winery.
The Trifon Zarezan celebration is also known by various other names: The day of the wine makers, St.
Description The purpose of marriage preparation, Pre-Cana, under canon law is to make sure that people are free to marry and have the capacity to marry.
Robert Cyril Hardy (26 June 1894 – 7 May 1917 died in action, France) Kenneth Thomas Hardy (23 May 1900 – 13 November 1970) managing director 1938 to 1965; succeeded by Thomas Walter Hardy Gertrude Mary Hardy (c.
Biography Sommer was born in San Francisco to Hermann and Elizabeth Sommer, a chemist and microbiologist, respectively.
It was a disruptive new strategy, alternately lauded by journalists and dismissed by competing academics, but not most winemakers.
In 2001, the minimum must weight requirements for SGN in Alsace were increased to 18.2% for Gewürztraminer and Pinot gris, and 16.4% for Riesling and Muscat, expressed as potential alcohol.
Owning only a small portion of a particular high-quality single vineyard (lieu-dit) meant that a grower often had insufficient wine from a parcel to vinify on its own.
Alongside viticulturalist George Hostetter, he was to have a major impact on the long-term prospects of the North American wine industry.
His father Tadeusz Czarkowski-Golejewski was also a land owner: Tadeusz Czarkowski-Golejewski had, in addition, become involved in politics, serving as a member of the Diet of Galicia and Lodomeria between 1908 and 1913, during the time when the entire region was still part of the Austrian empire.
Vineyards occupied 2% of the area of agricultural land in the region, at the same time they provided 15% of cash receipts and up to 25% of profit from the sale of plant products.
Unlike an "arrested fermentation", where the winemaker intentionally stops fermentation (such as in the production of fortified wines), a stuck fermentation is an unintentional and unwanted occurrence that can lead to the wine being spoiled by bacteria and oxidation.
In 1961 a Bin 58 Cabernet Sauvignon was produced using Block 42 fruit, and again in 1963 as Bin 63 - a wine that won the prestigious Jimmy Watson Memorial Trophy in 1964.
Brix and actual dissolved solids content When a sugar solution is measured by refractometer or density meter, the °Bx or °P value obtained by entry into the appropriate table only represents the amount of dry solids dissolved in the sample if the dry solids are exclusively sucrose.
The reason why Viognier has been kept in Côte-Rôtie (while for example the white grapes Marsanne and Roussanne are hardly found any more in red Hermitage or other red Rhône wines where they are allowed) is that it adds signature floral aromas to the wines.
A process of partially emptying and refilling barrels with beer is undertaken by craft breweries in the United States.
Cyryl's younger brother, Wiktor Czarkowski-Golejewski, was a cavalry officer who in 1940, also fell victim to the Katyn massacre.
Their names are among the 3,435 included on the so-called Ukrainian Katyn List dated 25 November 1940 and forwarded to Poland's then deputy Prosecutor General, Stefan Śnieżko, by General Andriy Khomich, the deputy commander of the Security Service of Ukraine, on 5 May 1994.
Cornelius studied at Lincoln University, graduating in 2004 with a Bachelor of Viticulture and Oenology degree, and went on to become the winemaker at Mud House in Marlborough.
See also French wine List of wine personalities References External links Derenoncourt Consultants (in French) Derenoncourt California
Torulaspora delbrueckii was formerly known as Saccharomyces delbrueckii or Saccharomyces rosei or Saccharomyces roseus, and the anamorph is called Candida colliculosa (for a complete list of synonyms, see CBS's website).
One of these was Ion Capsâz of Tomai, who became doorman of his Tunari offices—and who, in turn, assisted others fleeing the Budjak.
Hardy Street, Goodwood, South Australia, was named in his honour, as he had purchased a portion of the suburb in May 1838, and sold it to his son Arthur in 1841.
In the mid-19th century, Louis Pasteur noted the connection between yeast and the process of the fermentation in which the yeast act as catalyst and mediator through a series of a reaction that convert sugar into alcohol.
See also List of Appellation d'Origine Contrôlée wines Wine label History of Wine French wine Footnotes References J.
Rather than being crushed in a wine press or by another mechanized method, grapes are repeatedly trampled in vats by barefoot participants to release their juices and begin fermentation.
Family History Nello Olivo is the husband of actress Danica d'Hondt, father of actress America Olivo, and father-in-law to actors Christian Campbell and Jason Brooks.
Early life Reynell was born on 16 September 1883 in Magill, Adelaide, the fourth child and first son of Walter Reynell and his wife Emily (née Bakewell).
The Marriage Feast At Cana is a painting that was formerly attributed to the Early Netherlandish master Hieronymus Bosch.
Joint project with other Japanese winemakers In the past Koshu wines produced in Japan were quite sweet, but Singer was inspired by an experimental dry Koshu wine he tasted.
The treatment consists of heating the grapes at 95 °C (203 °F) for several minutes with vapour and then submitting them to a strong vacuum.
This style of press is rarely used to produce table wines, and some countries forbid its use for higher quality wines.
sons Jack and Frank Frederick Stoward (1866 – 14 December 1931) was brought out to South Australia by his uncle Thomas c.
This has the effect of creating a dry "outer cake" and wet "inner cake" with trapped juices still inside.
However, Dominican scholar Jerome Murphy-O'Connor cautions that Cana is a very common name, with no known text offering any clue as to which of the dozen towns going by the name would be the correct one, and calls the common choice of Kafr Qanna near Nazareth "probably just a pious guess".
A reprieve was granted for the production of Grange after a latter tasting by the Penfolds board of the early Grange wines met with much more favourable opinions.
The lower tip of the racking cane should initially be held about midway between the surface and the lees and gradually lowered as the volume decreases due to the siphoning.
Richard Sommer (17 August 1929 - 28 July 2009) was an American winemaker, considered the father of the Oregon wine industry.
As the name Abbaye de la Boutière indicates, the winery was established near Arbois in a hoary Roman Catholic Cistercian (White Monk) abbaye.
Just before the election, Thorn had been replaced as deputy leader of the Country Party by Crawford Nalder.
While Vitis vinifera varieties have ultimately supplanted the majority of French hybrid plantings in eastern North America, hundreds of hectares remain in production, some even used to produce "cult wines" from old vine plantings.
Many vegetarians consider beers that are processed with these finings (such as most cask-conditioned ales in the UK) to be unsuitable for vegetarian diets (although acceptable for pescetarians).
Activated carbon can remove benzenoid compounds and all classes of polyphenols non-specifically, either completely or partially, thus decolorizing and deodorizing juices and wines.
In theory traces of the very first product placed in the solera may be present even after 50 or more cycles.
Following the Liberal–Country coalition's victory at the 1947 state election, he was elevated to the new coalition ministry as Minister for Lands, Minister for Agriculture, and Minister for Labour.
Fermentation occurs in a closed system, so CO2 cannot directly escape to the atmosphere and dissolves in wine.
Winemakers deliberately leave more tartrates and phenolics in wines designed for long aging in bottle so that they are able to develop the aromatic compounds that constitute bouquet.
Bach composed the cantata in his second year as Thomaskantor in Leipzig as part of his chorale cantata cycle, for the Second Sunday after Epiphany.
Some producers of premium wine avoid fining, or delay it in order to leach more flavor and aroma from the phenols before they are removed.
Compared to the Tintoretto the Damaskinos version lacks a massive chandelier in the center of the room.
The Bolgrad natural grape soil-climatic zone refers to the Bolgrad region, the southern part of the Rheny region, the eastern and western Izmail regions on southern micellar carbonate chernozems, as well as the Kili region without the Danube region.
The first year of wine production alone supported 300 farmers and brought them back to the kiwi orchards, as they sold around 20 metric tons(20,000 kg) of kiwis to the winery.
A similar process known as governo has been used by Tuscan winemakers since the 14th century with the isolation after harvest of a batch of grapes that can be added later to the wine to help prevent (or recover from) a stuck fermentation.
He helped to pioneer vineyards in new areas of New Zealand, and produced one of the first chardonnays in New Zealand to be fermented and matured in barrels on its yeast lees.
Radicalization Around that time, Topciu was associating with Constantin Garoflid and Eftimie Antonescu of the Winemakers' Syndicate.
During the Gallipoli Campaign, he took command of the regiment after its commanding officer was killed at the Battle of the Nek.
The typical wine grape will have anywhere from 22 to 1242 mg of nitrogen/liter derived from free amino acids.
Hattingh later married Susannah Visser, a daughter of his fellow free burgher Jan Coenraad Visser and the Indian slave woman Maria van Negapatnam.
He attended the University of California, Davis in 1948 and later moved to Douglas County, Oregon to pursue fine winemaking.
Epiphanios of Mylopotamos (Greek: Επιφάνιος ο Μυλοποταμινός, romanized: Epifanios o Mylopotaminos; born 1956, Nikisiani, Kavala; died 11 December 2020, Mylopotamos, Mount Athos), also known as Epifanios Mylopotaminos, was a Greek Orthodox monk and chef.
The name is derived from John 2:1–12, the Wedding at Cana in Galilee, where Jesus performed the miracle of turning water into wine.
The grapes used in the making of base wine are picked when they are green, so that the grape skins do not break during handling and release as little phenols as possible.
In 1853 he purchased a property of 46 acres (18.6 ha) on the River Torrens which he called "Bankside", now Underdale, near the present Hardys Road.
In 1933, he was dispatched by his colleagues to neighboring Poland, which was the only major importer of Bessarabian wine, and where he hoped to obtain an intensfication of economic exchanges.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae can assimilate nitrogen from both inorganic (ammonia and ammonium) and organic forms (amino acids, particularly arginine).
Politics and later life At the 1930 state election, Thorn was elected to the seat of Toodyay for the Country Party.
Grape-treading was widespread in the history of winemaking, but with the introduction of industrial methods, it now survives mostly as a recreational or competitive activity at cultural festivals.
The practice is also the subject of many depictions in contemporary media, including the 1974 Mel Tillis song "Stomp Them Grapes", the I Love Lucy episode "Lucy's Italian Movie", and The Littlest Grape Stomper, a children's book by Alan Madison.
Usually the test checks for these acids in a cash still, but there are other methods available such as HPLC, gas chromatography and enzymatic methods.
Winemakers began to use Enologix metrics to improve company performance without saying so to anyone.
Others, such as John Williams, winemaker for Frog's Leap Winery, has stated that the need for its use is evidence of poor viticulture and/or winemaking.
Wine Enthusiast stated in 1999 that "Phyllis Zouzounis has captured the essence of Zinfandel here", and her 2007 Sonoma County Zinfandel was particularly acclaimed by wine critics.
Products containing residual amounts of sulfites, including potassium metabisulfite and sodium metabisulfite, should be labelled.
The bubbles created during the pneumatage process uses gravity and the weight of the juice to circulate the wine juice with the cap of skins and grape solids allowing for greater extraction of aroma, coloring agents and tannins to diffuse into the wine juice ("must").
The FDA approved its use in wines in 1988, with the maximum level being permitted set at 200 mg/L, and only if there were fewer than 500 yeast cells/mL at time of dosage.
Some wines (notably Chardonnay, Champagne, and Muscadet) are sometimes aged for a time on the lees (a process known as sur lie), leading to a distinctive yeasty aroma and taste.
Use today The only classical Old World wine region where co-fermentation is still widely practiced is now the Côte-Rôtie appellation of northern Rhône, while the use of white varieties in red Rioja and Tuscany wine has more or less disappeared.
In 1981 Lungarotti found in Torgiano the wine competition called Banco di Assaggio dei Vini d’Italia (BAVI) in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Region of Umbria, the latter of which took on its management in later years.
This was a fact that led to considerable resentment on the part of the rebel free burghers, as they regarded Hattingh as a traitor to their cause as a result of it.
This builds a large "cap" of grape skins, with pathways created by the stems, allowing juice to flow more evenly through caps, increasing the levels of skin contact, or maceration.
The richly-dressed bride wears red, and has her hair displayed at full-length, something that respectable women rarely did in public, except at weddings.
Styles of pét-nat can very widely, including a range of colours from white, red, pink and orange (not to be confused with skin contact orange wines).
Measuring must weight Must weights are commonly measured in the vineyard to monitor the ripeness of the grapes, which helps select the time of harvest.
Webster's Third International Dictionary shows from lia, "probably of Celtic origin, akin to Old Irish lige (bed), Gaulish legasit (he laid) and Welsh llaid (mud)." Normally, the wine is transferred to another container (racking), leaving this sediment behind.
How much is truly revealed by Burns of the Landlord's personality is open to question: John Bacon died, intestate, on the 1 November 1824 and the court records show that he had two executors who were his closest living relatives, John Bacon of Huntingdon and Joseph Bacon of Whitehaven.
They note that it was a common practice for new and more affluent and easily accessible sites to be established in place of old ones to accommodate increases in pilgrim traffic, particularly in the late Medieval and Ottoman periods.
In 1901 the current facade was built, and September 30, 1906, Bishop Angelo Roncalli consecrated the altar.
oeni is often the LAB most desired by winemakers to complete malolactic fermentation, the process is most often carried out by a variety of LAB species that dominate the must at different points during fermentations.
Wines made from these barrel alternatives typically do not age as well as wines that are matured in barrels.
At age 19, he took over his family's winery from his father, substantially improving it and increasing its size.
Measurement units In France and many other countries, the grape must density is often recalculated to show potential alcohol, the percent alcohol content that would be the result if the must were fermented to a completely dry wine.
At the time, the Romanian authorities had promised to exchange old rubles for lei, at a rate that was slightly advantageous for ruble holders.
The award is organised annually by the Ministry of Women and Child Development to recognise the women who create or inspire change.
In the second chamber, the oxygen is injected into the wine through a porous ceramic stone located at the bottom of the chamber.
Then that scale is refilled from the next oldest scale, and that one in succession from the second-oldest, down to the youngest scale, which is refilled with new product.
Historical geographer, Samuel Klein, also thought that the ancient Cana was to be identified with the Arab village of Kafr Kanna, but that the nearby ruin of Khirbet Qana (which bears the same name) was actually a different village, which Klein thought to be Kefar 'Aris (Heb.
Member of the Chamber of Manufactures Member of the Agricultural Bureau Member of the West Torrens School Board of Advice Member of the Winegrowers Association Member of the West Torrens Council Family Hardy's sister Martha Hardy (c.
delbrueckii species has been domesticated for winemaking and other human uses about 1900 and 4000 years ago respectively.
Studies have shown that the chemical reaction of autolysis, and its impact on the wine, starts to become noticeable after 18 months and will continue to impart traits for at least 5 years.
The Marriage at Cana is a panel painting in oils by Early Netherlandish painter Gerard David, dated to 1500-1510.
Originally a subject of the Russian Empire, he established his reputation as a lawyer and advocate of peasant welfare, also networking between the Bessarabian Gagauz, Romanians, and Bulgarians.
Pospíšilová has developed 24 new varieties of grape that are grown in Slovakia, including Breslava, Děvín, Diamant, Dunaj, Helios, Hetera, Hron, Mars, Nitranka, Rimava, Rosa, Rubanka, Rudava, Torysa, and Váh.
See also Marriage at Cana or Wedding at Cana, the Biblical story associated with this site The Wedding at Cana, a 1563 painting by the Italian artist Paolo Veronese (1528–88), depicting the event Roman Catholicism in Israel == References ==
The more the grape skins are torn or scoured, the more phenolic compounds and tannins that are extracted, which can increase the harshness of the wine.
Having become interested in brandy production since 1906, his distillery's Reynella Hospital Brandy soon became the premier hospital brandy in Australia.
The cultured yeasts most commonly used in winemaking belong to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae (also known as "sugar yeast") species.
In the 1980s, he also lived briefly at the Monastery of Saint Catherine in the Sinai Peninsula of Egypt.
An example of this would be starting fermentation in a carboy or stainless steel tank and then moving it over to oak barrels.
1860–1926), lived 37 Holbrooks Road, Underdale only daughter Hilda Amy Stoward (1884– ) married schoolmaster Arthur Leonard Davidson (1886–1918) in 1912.
A dedicated countryman, in 1927 he published his book entitled (loosely) "Memories of Rutting Country" which contained personal narratives involving hunting adventures between 1904 and 1919.
Since prices for a premier cru are typically higher than for wines from a larger area like a village or region, the grower could make more money selling off the production as the premier cru rather than blending it into a less specific appellation.
While co-fermentation in principle could be practiced for any mixture of grape varieties or other fruits, it is today more common for red wines produced from a mixture of red grape varieties and a smaller proportion of white grape varieties.
The experimental wine was produced in relatively small quantities, with a little over 400 cases of the wine produced.
These courses are designed to prepare couples with a better understanding of each other and of the sacrament of marriage.
However, this has been dismissed by other writers, who pointed out that the Greek oinos always means wine, and that the word sikera was available if the gospel author wanted to refer to barley beer.
The Greek word used in this toponym is Greek: Γαρεις, the Gamma said to be of the same ancient usage as found in Greek transcriptions of Gaza = עזה and Gabara = ערב.
Born into the pioneering wine-making Reynell family of Reynella, South Australia, he was killed in action during the Battle of Hill 60.
His father now entrusted him with management of the family estates at Wysuczka in the hill country south of Ternopil, and at that time still in the Austrian province of Galicia.
Racking, often referred to as Soutirage or Soutirage traditionnel (meaning racking in French), also filtering or fining, is the process of moving wine or beer from one container to another using gravity rather than a pump, which can be disruptive to the beverage.
However, wineries had to market the wine in opaque bottles to mask the turbidity and sediment that the "in-bottle MLF" produced.
Modern winemaking equipment includes temperature control mechanisms such as stainless steel fermenting tanks with a cooling jacket to help regulate temperatures.
Giorgio Lungarotti (1910–1999) was an Italian agricultural entrepreneur and viticulturalist who operated in Torgiano, a medieval town in the Perugia area (Umbria), located at the heart of a large area dedicated to grape-growing at the confluence of the Chiascio and Tiber rivers.
He explodes: So he made a whip out of cords, and drove all from the temple area, both sheep and cattle; he scattered the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables.
In 1994, Babich won the Winemaker of the Year Award at the Royal Easter Show Wine Awards, and at the 2013 New Zealand International Wine Show he received the Sir George Fistonich Medal for service to New Zealand wine.
CNBC-18 (a TV channel) made a short story for the International Women's Day 2019 for special telecast.
There are a number of different styles of presses that are used by wine makers but their overall functionality is the same.
Sur lie wines are bottled directly from the lees without racking (a process for filtering the wine).
In 1968 Torgiano received the DOC appellation for its Rosso and Bianco wines, the first of these prestigious appellations to be awarded to Umbria's wine production; in 1990 the DOCG was granted to Rosso Riserva (with retroactive recognition to the 1983 vintage).
For example, in 2008 the Japanese government required that only five percent of the grapes in a wine be from Japan to qualify to be labelled as a Japanese wine., but EU regulations require that wines that are a blend of grapes from different countries be identified as such.
Above the Jesus figure, a carver is carving a lamb, beneath the Jesus figure, musicians play lively music, yet, before them is an hourglass – a reference to the futility of human vanity.
The German theologian Friedrich Justus Knecht points out three lessons that are to be drawn from this account at Cana: The power of Mary's intercession.
Shortly after the outbreak of the First World War, Reynell volunteered to serve in the Australian Imperial Force.
Publications Epiphanios' best-known book is The Cuisine of the Holy Mountain Athos (ISBN 9789603983354).
After the Koncert mladosti festival was banned, he was summoned for questioning as a co-organizer and punished by being prohibited from officially acting as a cultural coordinator of the SZM local organization.
Co-fermentation is also performed in situations where field blend varietals are indistinguishable from each other, thus necessitating co-fermentation.
This can be a significant advantage for a high volume winery compared to batch presses that often only process 1 to 5 tonnes an hour.
In depth filtration, often done after fermentation, the wine is pushed through a thick layer of pads made from cellulose fibers, diatomaceous earth, or perlite.
The central broad-wave soil-climatic zone is located on ordinary and southern micellar-carbonate chernozems.
Bengel suggests that, even if Jesus' fundamental "hour" has not yet come, his "hour of assisting them" has certainly arrived.
Base wine is a type of still wine produced in the first stage of fermentation during the production of sparkling wines and brandies.
Galets roulés also serve to protect the vine and minimize soil erosion during the periods of strong winds that are known in the area as mistral.
In Crimea, Golitsyn became an avid collector of 17th–20th century wines, eventually accumulating around 50,000 bottles.
See also Renaissance banquet 100 Great Paintings, 1980 BBC series Notes Louvre Visitor's Guide, English version (2004) References External links Article on Louvre website
His version of the Wedding at Cana was a copy of Tintoretto's massive painting of the Wedding Feast at Cana.
In traditional Bulgarian folklore, the feast of Trifon Zarezan is primarily associated with viticulture.
However, the idea that Jesus was married to Mary Magdalene is usually dismissed by scholars as pseudohistorical.
At the time it showed a portrait and only when the overpainting was removed did the tempera painting of the wedding come to light.
Developed in 1991 by Patrick DuCournau, working with the exceptionally tannic grape Tannat in Madiran, the process gained usage in modern winemaking following the 1996 authorization by the European Commission.
The reason why co-fermentation is not more widely practiced is that it "locks in" a certain blend already at the start of the fermentation, which gives the winemaker less possibility to adjust the blend after fermentation.
Prudence Kasibante Ukkonika is a Ugandan Agri business entrepreneur, she is the managing director of K-Roma limited an indigenous business entity manufactures, packages and distributes Bella wine, natural fruit concentrates, juices and Teas in Uganda.
Physical remains of Katyn massacre victims are believed to be among those buried at the unmarked mass grave site known as the Bykivnia graves, a short distance from the centre of Kyiv".
The presence of stems in the mix facilitates pressing by allowing juice to flow past flattened skins.
Any of these approaches has the potential to subtly or drastically affect the resulting flavor and quality of the wine.
He went to Mylopotamos in 1990 and bought the area for 2 million drachma, or about 6,000 euros, from the Monastery of Great Lavra.
In the first are the Abbe-based instruments in which a drop of the sample solution is placed on a prism; the result is observed through an eyepiece.
Sommer came north to primarily produce Pinot Noir and Riesling, but in addition planted a number of other varieties including Malbec, Sauvignon Blanc, Semilliion, Chardonnay, Grenache, Barbera etc.
The 1955 vintage of Grange Hermitage was submitted to wine competitions beginning in 1962 and over the years has won more than 50 gold medals.
Biography Born on 10 October 1940, Babich was the son of Josip Babich, who founded Babich Wines, and Mara Babich (née Grgich).
His grandfather John Reynell had established wine-making in the region shortly after the settlement of South Australia.
Moreover, Lornet makes a wine from the rare Trousseau grape he calls Trousseau des Dames, a unique Vin de Paille and some Macvin.
Czarkowski-Golejewski was arrested on his estate at Wysuczka by officers of the Soviet security service on 21 September 1939.
History One of the earliest extant visual representations of the practice appears on a Roman Empire sarcophagus from the 3rd century AD, which depicts an idealized pastoral scene with a group of Erotes harvesting and stomping grapes at Vindemia, a rural festival.
Governo is a winemaking technique reportedly invented in Tuscany in the 14th century to help complete fermentation and stabilize the wine.
Palm is a difficult material to bend and fashion into barrels, however, and wine merchants in different regions experimented with different wood styles to find a better wood source.
This secondary fermentation, also known as bottle fermentation, is the process that makes the wine "bubbly" due to the containment of carbon dioxide which is normally released as a by product in regular fermentation.
She is also involved in Cabernet Sauvignon and Cabernet Franc production at Raymond Burr Vineyards, Chardonnay at Bedarra Vineyards and Tre Ricci Wines in the Dry Creek Valley, and Viognier and Cabernet at Starlite Vineyards in the Alexander Valley.
Although he didn't leave an inventory of the structures on the estate, it is surmised that they were substantial for the period.
Then he founded the village of Lamotte, before that of Bellingham, then in 1709 that of La Roque and a little later the domain of L'Ormarins, created by Jean Roy, another Huguenot from the Luberon and later bought by the billionaire Anton Rupert.
References External links Kitchen Dictionary: Campden Tablet Archived 27 November 2002 at the Wayback Machine
Thorn enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force in 1915, and during the war served in Egypt and France as a driver.
'wedding feast' or 'marriage supper') is a seudat mitzvah that observant Jews eat after a Jewish wedding.
Within this species are several hundred different strains of yeast that can be used during fermentation to affect the heat or vigor of the process and enhance or suppress certain flavor characteristics of the varietal.
cerevisiae in mixed cultures) for certain applications, particularly to reduce volatile acidity in high-sugar fermentations like in Sauternes wines.
In 2002 or 2003, he became a chief and a main organizer of the newly created event called Fyzulnačka.
The process of cold maceration or cold soak is where temperatures of the fermenting must are kept low to encourage extraction by water and added sulfur dioxide rather than relying principally on heat and alcohol to act as a solvent.
Other good sources are fresh apple cider and unpasteurized beer that has not been filter sterilized.
These courses can have multiple different forms ranging from weekend retreats to getting matched with a sponsor couple for meetings.
In 2010, Stéphane Derenoncourt, Julien Lavenu, Simon Blanchard and Frédéric Massie are associates and the consultancy becomes Derenoncourt Consultants.
For instance, suppose the solera consists of three barrels of wine, and half of each barrel is transferred once a year.
Following his father's death Sir James is said to have examined these artefacts and was so shocked that he destroyed them in order to preserve Burns's reputation.
The sensitivity of the paper is also limited to a detection threshold of 100–200 mg/L while most measurements of "MLF stability" target a malic level of less than 0.03 g/L (30 mg/L).
Organised as the Association to Protect the Integrity of Artistic Heritage (APIAH), artists protested against the restoration of the 426-year-old painting, and publicly demanded to be included in the matter, which demand the Louvre Museum denied.
By 1912 his fortune declined, and he donated a large part of his lands and vineyards to Nicholas II of Russia aiming to preserve them as part of the Imperial estates.
In his obituary The New York Times noted that his Grange had won more wine show prizes than any other Australian red wine, and was regarded as the flagship of Australia's wine industry.
While the process has long been associated with French wine, the first recorded mention of adding sugar to must in French literature was the 1765 edition of L'Encyclopedie, which advocated the use of sugar for sweetening wine over the previously accepted practice of using lead acetate.
In modern British brewing all commercial isinglass products are blends of material from a limited range of tropical fish.
History Arbois, childhood home to Louis Pasteur, has for centuries been the wine capital of the Jura.
Acclaimed on the show circuit on release, the Bin 60A received even greater acknowledgement after Max Schubert's death, when in 2004 Decanter Magazine named it as the only New World wine in its top 10 of the greatest wines of all time.
He was buried in the Hill 60 British Cemetery and posthumously mentioned in dispatches on 5 November 1915.
Both the acetification and the maturation take place in precious sessile oak (Quercus petraea), chestnut, oak, mulberry, and juniper barrels.
The estates were quickly sold to merchant Gabriel Dutoit but it was a great-grandson, Gideon Joubert, who bought him in 1915.
Babich founded the Young Winemakers' Group, and was in the vanguard of those who worked to modernise production and raise standards in the New Zealand wine industry in the 1970s.
In 2008 respected Australian wine critic James Halliday said of the Bin 60A, "An utterly superb wine, a glorious freak of nature and man...
The electrostatic types comprise the vast majority; including all but activated carbon, fining yeast, PVPP, copper sulfate, pectinase and pectolase.
Wines made with the ancestral method are sometimes called pétillant-naturel, popularly abbreviated to pét-nat.
This is used in jurisdictions such as areas of California, where if the must has excess sugar for normal fermentation, water may be added to lower the concentration.
Frédéric Lornet has been working with this palette and other grape types to make classic versions of French wine using Pinot noir and Chardonnay grapes.
When De La Warr left Virginia the following year in order to recuperate from a bout of scurvy, Bohun accompanied him on the trip.
The story can be understood as John's fulfillments of prophecies in the Old Testament, such as in Amos 9:13–14 and Genesis 49:10–11 about the abundance of wine that there will be in the time of the messiah.
It is now entirely abandoned, except by about thirty Metawileh, and the stones of its overthrown houses are continually being removed to build new houses in the two other quarters.
Description of excavation site Khirbet Qana is located on a 100-meter hill, on the north side of Beth Netofa valley.
It is a paraphrase of the Latin "Jesu dulcis memoria", a medieval hymn attributed to Bernard of Clairvaux, a meditation on Jesus as a comforter and helper in distress.
In the absence of oxygen, yeast will seek out the lipids in grape solid as a source of nutrients to sustain its activity.
By 1987, she produced three distinctive Zins under the Deux Amis label (with co-proprietor and winemaking colleague Jim Pempraze) and five more as winemaker at Mazzocco Vineyards.
Exotic Wines from the Foothills of the Alps External links Portrait of Frederic Lornet and other wine makers at Arbois's Fete de Vin by Joseph Nechvatal
The novel The Secret of Santa Vittoria and the film based on it, taking place in a wine-producing Italian town during WWII, include a grape treading scene which has a major role in the battle of wits between the townspeople and their German occupiers.
Its name commemorates the event of the Wedding at Cana from the Gospel of John, thought by some Christians to have taken place on the site, during which Jesus performed his first miracle, by turning water into wine at the request or behest of Mary.
He lost the agriculture portfolio to Hubert Parker in a reshuffle in January 1948, but in October 1949 regained a third title, becoming Minister for Immigration.
In brewing and winemaking, free amino nitrogen (FAN) is a measure of the concentration of individual amino acids and small peptides (one to three units) which can be utilized by beer and wine yeast for cell growth and proliferation.
Torulaspora delbrueckii can be an opportunistic spoilage yeast for dairy products or soft drinks (fruit juices, etc.).
In recognition for this work, in 1877 Golitsyn was elected as a corresponding member of the Moscow Archaeological Society.
Soutirage was developed in the Bordeaux region of France in the 19th century at a time when there was no electricity to power pumps.
A few grapes are crushed between the fingers and the must is dripped onto the glass of the refractometer.
The common Appellations to all the Abbaye de la Boutière wines are: Côtes du Jura, Côtes du Jura Mousseux and a Crémant du Jura along with more localized Appellation such as : Arbois, Arbois Pupillin, Macvin and Vin de paille (straw wine).
Outside of politics, Thorn served for ten years on the state executive of the Returned Services League (RSL).
He retired from parliament at the 1959 election, with James Craig retaining his seat for the Country Party.
Background Ukkonika's father, the late Ludovic Kasibante, was a known wine trader and first licensed distiller of local waragi (gin in Uganda) and had a big bar in Rukungiri district when Ukkonika was an infant, this is where her interest in wine making stemmed from.
Catherine pre-deceased her husband who died in 1824 and John and Joseph Bacon recorded as his executors and closest relatives, could have been their sons.
Together with ammonia, FAN makes up the measurement of yeast assimilable nitrogen that can be measured prior to the start of fermentation.
He nearly lost his seat at the 1956 state election, prevailing over an independent candidate by just 63 votes on the two-candidate-preferred count.
The wine goes into bottle, sealed under a crown cap, where the still viable yeast, nutrient and sugar allow the primary fermentation to continue and produce the carbon dioxide that forms the bubbles.
With very acidic grapes like Sangiovese this process will temper some of the harshness and volatility in the wine.
Digital refractometers also find the critical angle, but the light path is entirely internal to the prism.
The size of the barrel plays a large role in determining the effects of oak on the wine by dictating the ratio of surface area to volume of wine with smaller containers having a larger impact.
Trifon is also known in other Balkan countries, it is affixed with the Orthodox calendar and is associated with the change of seasons from winter to spring.
The chemical process and details of autolysis were not originally understood scientifically, but the positive effects such as a creamy mouthfeel, breadlike and floral aromas, and reduced astringency were noticed early in the history of wine.
An "active-aldehyde", acrolein can interact with some phenolic compounds in wine to create highly bitter-tasting wines, described as amertume by Pasteur.
Block 42 is stated as being the site of the oldest continuously producing Cabernet Sauvignon vines on earth.
It also makes pure Savagnin wine and a Ploussard named L’Abbaye after the ancient Cistercian abbey where they are made.
Phyllis Zouzounis is an American female winemaker based in Windsor, California, known for Zinfandel wine.
Their founder, Hans Heinrich Hattingh, was a German settler who served as a free burgher of the Dutch Cape Colony in the late 1600s and early 1700s.
MacNeil The Wine Bible, Workman Publishing 2001 Robinson, Jancis (Ed.) The Oxford Companion to Wine.
Some scholars believe, according to archaeological evidence, that the identification of Kafr Kanna was the result of the decline of Khirbet Qana beginning in the Mamluk period.
Saignée Pronounced "sahn yay" is the removal of grape juice from the "must" before primary fermentation to increase a wines skin/juice ratio.
Between 2000 and 2002, she trained at Château Gerbaud in Saint-Émilion, Château Calon-Ségu in Saint-Estèphe, the Oenology Laboratory of Lamarque and Château Gloria.
Other Derenoncourt projects abroad include engagements in Italy, Austria, Spain, Turkey, in Syria with Domaine de Bargylus, and in Beqaa Valley, Lebanon with Château Marsyas.
Throughout the growing season, Enologix would test and track the developing components of the grapes and can use calculation to try and better gauge the optimal ripeness of the grapes to set an ideal time for harvesting.
On paintings, this can be used as a temporary backing to either canvas patches or filler until dried.
Another version of the story places the event at the Closeburn Kirk Bridge Inn where the landlady was Catherine Stewart Bacon's mother.
He was a six-time chair of judges at the Air New Zealand Wine Awards, and also judged at the Royal Easter Show Wine Awards.
Biography Cornelius was born in Christchurch on 2 June 1976, the son of Leonie (née Waddell) and Jim Cornelius.
The 1960 vintage enabled Schubert to return to using new oak barrels, something he had been unable to do during the 1957–59 vintages.
In 1872 he received a second degree, in law, from the Moscow State University, and from 1872 to 1874 studied in Germany.
In 1974 he graduated from electrical maturita and from 1976 to 1981 he studied mechanical engineering technology at the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, SVŠT in Bratislava.
In 1930, Ostashinski returned to Mandatory Palestine and worked as a winemaker in a winery in Rishon LeZion.
Finings are substances that are usually added at or near the completion of the processing of making wine, beer, and various nonalcoholic juice beverages.
Not much is known about Bohun's early life, but it is estimated that he was born in England between 1575 and 1585 and that he received his education at the University of Leyden in the Netherlands.
Excessive phenols in base wine result in partial oxidation, which impairs the flavor and aroma of the final product.
Mega Purple has raised some controversy within the wine consuming community as its use is considered to be akin to adulterating a wine.
Wedding at Cana also known as Wedding Feast at Cana and Le Nozze di Cana is an oil painting by Michael Damaskinos.
In late 2009, Derenoncourt released his first California wine, Derenoncourt California, a project started in 2006.
From 1885 to 1910 were the most productive years for the wine industry of the region, which today (the 21st century) is called the Odesa Oblast.
Anstis of Ballarat, Victoria Recognition At the Adelaide Exhibition of 1881 he was awarded a trophy valued at 100 guineas awarded by Sir Edwin Smith for the "exhibit of greatest national importance to the State".
However, as Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the primary yeast for both beer and wine, can not utilize proline in the anaerobic conditions of ethanol fermentation it is not included in FAN (and subsequently YAN) calculations.
The start of his career in viticulture began when he arrived as a hitch-hiker in Fronsac in 1982, and worked several harvests before he found employment at Château Fronsac in 1985.
After the primary fermentation, base wine is first blended into a cuvée, then made into sparkling wine by further fermentation, or distilled into brandy.
Often, the same producer will have another wine from the same appellation with less residual sugar without the SGN designation.
In contrast, Hougang is the Hanyu Pinyin spelling but the Hokkien pronunciation Aū-káng is most commonly used.
Scholars have argued that the "degree of order" within the text "can be exaggerated" but rubrics are used throughout to mark divisions.
Nannerl is an Austro-Bavarian Upper German language diminutive for the name Anna that is also in use as an independent given name.
The largest non-Christian faith in Wales is Islam, with about 22,000 members in 2001 served by about 40 mosques, following the first mosque established in Cardiff.
(1916–1980), American author and poet Thaddeus Stevens (1792–1868), United States Representative from Pennsylvania Robert Thaddeus R.
Prominent individuals with no direct connection to deaf culture are sometimes also assigned name signs; for example, George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, William Shakespeare, and Vincent van Gogh all have name signs.
"Long knives" was a term used by the Iroquois, and later by the Mingo and other indigenous peoples of the Ohio Country to designate white settlers from Virginia, in contradistinction to those of New York and Pennsylvania.
48 BC), loyal follower of Cleopatra See also Apollodorus of Smyrna, a copyist error for Apollonides of Smyrna Apollo (disambiguation) Apollinaris (disambiguation) Apollonia (disambiguation) Apollonius (disambiguation)
Samples were taken from two boxes of human remains located the in British Institute in Eastern Africa (BIEA) in Nairobi, originally excavated in the 1950s and 1960s by Chittick.
A legend of Saint Olaf recounts how a troll built a church for the saint at a fantastic speed and price, but the saint was able to free himself by learning the troll's name during a walk in the woods.
A 14th-century Icelandic manuscript describes a kuenna land ("Woman Land") north of India populated by hermaphroditic women.
Jude is an English variant of Judas, a name derived from Ἰούδας (Ioudas), the Ancient Greek form of יְהוּדָה.
960s), Byzantine general People with the surname Michael Theodoulou See also Abdullah, an Arabic name with the same meaning Obadiah, a Hebrew name with the same meaning Theodul Pass Theodul Glacier Theodula of Anazarbus Théodule == References ==
Insults Pejorative, politics Animal epithets may be pejorative, indeed in some cultures highly offensive.
His study of this material revealed a great number of substrate phenomena from Uralic languages and extended our knowledge of the formal and semantical development of toponyms as well as of the ancient state of the Uralic languages.
Sammy is a nickname, frequently for people named Samuel or Samantha, and also an English spelling of the Arabic name Sami.
Woody (1833–1912), American politician and judge Joey Woody (born 1973), American track and field athlete Larry Woody, American sports writer Russ Woody, American author and television producer
In some cases the traditional English exonym is based on a local Chinese variety instead of Mandarin, in the case of Xiamen, where the name Amoy is closer to the Hokkien pronunciation.
See also List of ancient Egyptian papyri Amenemope Onomastics Prosopography References Parkinson, R., et alia, Cracking Codes, the Rosetta Stone, and Decipherment, (Berkeley: University of California Press, c.
Regional usage Argentina The word gringo is mostly used in rural areas following the original Spanish meaning.
In Ethiopia and Eritrea, the terms Tukrīr (Amharic) and Tǝkwǝrir (Tigrinya) are used to designate persons of West or Central African origin.
For example, foreign football players in the Brazilian Championship that come from other South American countries are referred to as "gringos" by the sports media and by sports fans.
Uniform Commercial Code Uniform Commercial Code §1-201(37) of the United States generally defines signed as "using any symbol executed or adopted with present intention to adopt or accept a writing".
Research can be contemporary, with data collected through surveys and ethnographical inquiry of modern societies and communities, or historical, based on historical written sources.
This organization replaced the former International Committee of Onomastic Sciences, which was composed exclusively of representatives of member countries and did not welcome individual researchers as this new structure allows.
The name Mugat may derive from an Arabic term for Zoroastrians (Literally “fire cult followers” or "Heathen").
More often today, the Austuriani are recognized as the product of local social transformation, given the association of the name with the same space over two centuries.
Hydronyms include the proper names of rivers and streams, lakes and ponds, swamps and marshes, seas and oceans.
Fyodor, Fedor (Russian: Фёдор) or Feodor is the Russian-language form of the Greek-language name Theodoros (Greek: Θεόδωρος) meaning "God's gift" or "god-given".
The name (רעמסס: Raˁamses, Raˁmeses) occurs in the Hebrew Bible, not as the name of a king but rather the name of one of the two cities which was built for the Pharaoh of the oppression by the forced labor of the Israelites (Exodus, 1:11), the other such city being Pithom.
History "Kartoffel" refers to a person of German descent, particularly an ethnic German from the perspective of allochthone populations in Germany.
It came to be used as a given name among the Puritans in the 17th century and was by them taken to the American colonies.
Published in 1659: Weyman, Daniel, Antwoorde in versoeck, vande heeren Weyman ende Copez, Leiden, Jan Dyvoet, 1659; 16 cm.
2007–2009), Deputy Minister of Interior for Counter-Narcotics and former Governor of Badakhshan, Afghanistan Baz Bamigboye, British journalist Baz Muhammad Khan (fl.
The same convention applies to missiles, with air-launched ground attack missiles beginning with the letter "K" and surface-to-surface missiles (ranging from intercontinental ballistic missiles to antitank rockets) with the letter "S", air-to-air missiles "A", and surface-to-air missiles "G".
Literary critic Egil Törnqvist mentions possible risks in choosing certain names for literary characters.
There have been concerns that signature reviews improperly reject ballots from young and minority voters at higher rates than others, with no or limited ability of voters to appeal the rejection.
His body was discovered by a chamberlain of the Caffè dei Segretari who usually brought Tassini breakfast each morning - on 22 December 1899 he had not already opened his door and the chamberlain called a blacksmith to force it open.
In linguistics, a hypostasis (from the Greek word ὑπόστασις meaning foundation, base or that which stands behind) is a relationship between a name and a known quantity, as a cultural personification (i.e.
Government and politics Mo Brooks (born 1954), American politician from Alabama Mo Mowlam (1949–2005), British politician Mo Udall (1922–1998), U.S.
Subsequent art history, beginning with Pliny's chapters that gave common names to works such as by Praxiteles.
Even among Welsh speakers, very few people speak only Welsh, with nearly all being bilingual in English.
Jerome's script) and in general for the Illyrian language (and foundation of the San Girolamo dei Croati and related Pontifical Croatian College of St.
Green (1761–1841), American politician Isaiah Harris (1929–2001), baseball pitcher in the Negro leagues Isaiah Hart (1792–1861), American plantation owner and founder of Jacksonville, Florida Isaiah Hartenstein (born 1998), German-American basketball player Isaiah T.
429–4th century BC), follower of Socrates and narrator of the dialogue described by Plato in his Symposium Apollodorus of Seleucia (fl.
1612–1648), a prince of the Georgiam Kingdom of Kakheti As a surname: David Datuna (born 1974), Georgian-American artist
Bogdanov (Богданов), or its feminine form Bogdanova (Богданова), is a common Russian and Bulgarian surname, derived by a genitive inflection from the given name Bogdan.
Gert is a mainly masculine given name (sometimes a short form of Gerrit, Gerard, etc.), with some female bearers (short for Gertrude).
At the time the language was spoken, it was known as *þiudisk, meaning "of the people"—as opposed to the Latin language "of the clergy"—which is the source of the English word Dutch.
The popularity of the name Winnie steadily declined among American women in the 20th century, but in the 1990 US Census, still ranked 699th of 4276.
However, there are important regional differences: while it is the 2nd most common surname in the Lower Sava Statistical Region, and the 4th most common surname in the Coastal–Karst Statistical Region, it is extremely rare in eastern Slovenia.
Traditionally, only works of art in the fine arts are titled, but convenient descriptive titles may be needed for works in the decorative arts, for cataloging, museum labels and similar fields.
Following Ukrainian independence and dissolution of the Soviet Union (1990–91), the official position of the government and some Ukrainian politicians has been that the Rusyns are an integral part of the Ukrainian nation.
In 1915, during the First World War, the French Navy's Hydrographic Service removed all those that reminded them of the enemy, for example more than twenty.
With Ruff Ruffman Chet, from Total Drama Presents: The Ridonculous Race Chet "The Rocket" Steadman, from the film Rookie of the Year Chester "Chet" Desmond, from Fire Walk with Me Chet Kaminski, from Ash vs Evil Dead Chet Shaft, from Scott the Woz Chet, from Fallout: New Vegas Dr.
Ed is a masculine given name, usually a short form (hypocorism) of Edward, Edgar, Edmund, Edwin, Edith, etc.
See also Norsemen Frankish Empire References This article contains content from the Owl Edition of Nordisk familjebok, a Swedish encyclopedia published between 1904 and 1926, now in the public domain.
In addition, UNGEGN has a Task Team for Africa and coordinates the work of countries in developing their toponymic guidelines.
It may refer to: Sepandar Kamvar (born 1977), American computer scientist, artist, author and entrepreneur Sep Lambert (1876–1959), Irish cricketer Sep Ledger (1889–1917), South African rugby union player Sep Ruf (1908–1982), German architect and designer Sep E.
The name "Sioux", an abbreviated form of Nadouessioux, most likely derived from a Proto-Algonquian term, *-a·towe· ('foreign-speaking).
Official name of Croatia Throughout its history, there were many official political names of Croatia in the 20th century.
Related terms have existed outside the French-speaking world: Godames was historically used in Brazil, while Gotama was used in East Africa.
In these environments, including the extension in a command name unnecessarily exposes an implementation detail which puts all references to the commands from other programs at future risk if the implementation changes.
The Spanish and Italian Fran is more common for men, while the English name is mostly used for women.
Wilfie is a nickname of: Wilf Greaves (born 1935), Canadian retired boxer Wilfrid Reid (1884-1973), English golfer and golf course designer Wilfrid Wilfie Starr (1908-1976), Canadian National Hockey League player See also Wilf
As a sample for these guidelines he elaborated Toponymic Guidelines for International Cartography of his native Austria and presented them as Working Paper Nr.
A praise name is a figurative or descriptive name that is given to either a person, animal, clan, deity, or inanimate object.
It was popularized in the 19th century in the Anglosphere by a character in Sir Walter Scott's 1821 novel Kenilworth, which was based on the story of Amy Robsart.
Sammy Watts, character in Angelina Ballerina Businesses Sammy Corporation, Japanese amusement company See also Sam (disambiguation) Sammie (name)
Dietfurt an der Altmühl, city in the province of Neumarkt in the Upper Palatinate in Bavaria, where is also the Convent of Dietfurt.
As the word has no connection to physical appearance in Brazil, black African or African American foreigners are also called gringos.
1555–1628), Portuguese Jewish scholar Immanuel Alm (1767–1809), Finnish painter Immanuel Bäck (1876–1939), Finnish clergyman and politician Immanuel Benveniste (1608–c.
He died of an apoplectic fit in his house near the sotoportego delle Cariole in Venice, not far from San Zulian.
Related organizations The American Name Society is allied with the Modern Language Association (MLA).
Women Billie Allen (1925-2015), American actress Billie Anthony (1932-1991), Scottish singer Billie Barry (1921-2014), Irish singer, dancer and choreographer Billie Bennett (1874-1951), American film actress Billie Bird (1908-2002), American actress and comedian Billie Black (born c.
K., 'Towards a Theory of Nicknames: A Case for Socio-onomastics', Names 38/4 (1990).https://ans-names.pitt.edu/ans/article/view/1253 Nordic Socio-onomastics Website - https://www.nordicsocioonomastics.org/about-socio-onomastics/ == References ==
See also Gau (territory) – also gives the etymology and language history of Gäu Gäu – regions with the name Natural regions referred to as Gäu plateaus: Neckar and Tauber Gäu Plateaus Gäu Plateaus in the Main Triangle Werra Gäu Plateaus Gäuboden Altsiedelland | Altsiedel landscape
Augie (sometimes spelled Auggie) is a nickname for variations of the name Augustus, which is derived from Latin.
It declined gradually during the late 19th and early-to-mid 20th centuries, falling below rank 700 in 1964.
They may be metonymic, naming a person's profession, generally in the Middle Ages; toponymic, naming the place where a person lived; or nicknames, comparing the person favourably or otherwise with the named animal.
It contains topical research reports as well as basic theoretical articles concerning all areas of scholarly name research.
Notable people with the surname include: Bolajoko Olubukunola Olusanya, Nigerian pediatrician and social entrepreneur G.O.
Baz is a surname, given name and nickname, often a short form (hypocorism) of Basil or Barry in English.
Trisha is either: a female given name usually derived from the female Latin given name Patricia (derived from the Latin word patrician, meaning 'noble'), a Hindu unisex given name a transliteration of तृषा (Tṛṣā) meaning thirst or ambition.
The richest and most powerful slave trader in all of recorded history is Tippu Tip, a man born in Zanzibar with mixed Bantu and Omani ancestry.
People Given name Ollie Marie Adams (1925–1998), American gospel and R&B singer Ollie Bassett (born 1998), Northern Irish footballer Ollie Bostock (born 2007), Welsh footballer Ollie E.
To give some examples from Nannerl's time: her little brother was addressed as "Wolfgangerl"; Joseph Haydn as a child was "Sepperl" (second syllable), Haydn's 16-year-old pupil Josepha von Genzinger was "Peperl".
It is also a French affectionate term for a kitten and a French vernacular slang term for vulva or vagina, akin to the double meaning of the English “pussy”.
Continuing this practice, and also using a dot as a separator for display and input purposes (while not storing the dot), were various DEC operating systems (such as RT-11), followed by CP/M and subsequently DOS.
Examples Persons Nanook, a Native Alaskan Tex, a cowboy Hanako, an archetypal Japanese name for girls.
The principle that coreferring names are substitutable salva veritate thus appears to fail in the context of belief reports (and similarly for other propositional attitude reports).
"Jodie", a song by Saves the Day from the album Can't Slow Down (1998) "Jodie", a song by SZA from the 2022 deluxe edition of the album Ctrl (2017) See also Jodee Nimerichter, American arts administrator
It is stated that knowing someone's, or something's, true name therefore gives the person (who knows the true name) power over them.
311), martyr, patron saint of florists Dorothea of Montau (1347–1394), Roman Catholic saint, hermitess and visionary Other people First name Dorotea Bucca (1360–1436), Italian physician Dorotea van Fornenbergh (fl.
Eliana, Elianna, אֱלִיעָנָה (Hebrew), Ηλιάνα (Greek), إليانا (Arabic), is a feminine given name found with that spelling in Hebrew, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish.
1647–1697), Dutch stage actress Dorothea Binz (1920–1947), German concentration camp officer executed for war crimes Dorothea Brooking (1916–1999), British children's television producer and director Dorothea H.
As a spelling variant of Clio, the name is etymologically derived from the Greek root κλέω/κλείω, Latinised as kleos (meaning "to recount", "to make famous", "to celebrate", "glory", "to praise" or "to acclaim").
Known bearers of the name include: Smendes, pharaoh of the 21st dynasty; Smendes II, High Priest of Amun during the 21st dynasty; Smendes III, High Priest of Amun during the 22nd dynasty; Nesubanebdjed, a palace official, married to the sister of Nectanebo I.
The Mugat are devout Sunni Muslims, but some traces of pre-Islamic beliefs have continued to endure.
Other Berber varieties to which it refers include: Ghomara Central Atlas Tamazight Senhaja de Srair language South Oran Berber (various ksour in southwestern Algeria and southeastern Morocco) Oued Righ Berber (around Touggourt) Tunisian Berber in general: Djerbi, Matmata (Tamezret), Douiri.
The name is a theophoric name, meaning 'servant of God' (in a similar construction to Christodoulos).
Silvo Torkar (born October 1, 1954), is a Slovenian linguist, lexicographer, onomastician, translator.
Main works Aleksandr Matveyev is the author of several books including Finno-Ugric borrowings in Russian dialect of the Northern Urals (Sverdlovsk, 1959), Methods of toponymic researches (Sverdlovsk, 1986), Substrate toponymics of Northern Russia (vol.
People are also able to use aliases, however, the Death Note must only have the actual name to work.
In 2022, Names was awarded the exclusive DOAJ Seal from the Directory of Open Access Journals, reflecting best practices in open access publishing.
In Romani culture, a gorja, gadjo (masculine), or gadji (feminine) is a person who has no Romanipen.
adding That's a good litmus test: if you wouldn't use a word in the presence of someone you're describing, [there is a] good chance it's offensive.
Giuseppe Tassini (12 November 1827 - 22 December 1899) was an Italian historian and one of the most notable scholars of the toponymy of his birthplace of Venice.
The use of "Amazigh" is particularly common in Morocco, especially among Central Atlas Tamazight, Tarifit and Shilha speakers since 1980.
Johnny, a character in the video game Baldi's Basics Plus See also Alternate forms for the name John Johnny (disambiguation) Johny Jonnie Jonny Jhonny (disambiguation) == References ==
In this proposal, known as the Agreement of Benicàssim (Acord de Benicàssim), both the left-wing and right-wing parties reached a consensus regarding the symbols of the territory and soon-to-be autonomous community of Spain.
Amy Anderson and Amy Winter in the animated TV series Louds Amy Antsler, one of the main characters in the film Booksmart.
(born 1967), American singer, pianist, composer, actor, and television host Harry Cothliff (1916–1976), English footballer Harry Crider (born 1999), American football player Harry Corbett (1918–1989), English magician, puppeteer and television presenter Harry H.
Minou is also a French surname with different origins, sometimes originating as a spelling variation of other French surnames such as Mignot, Minaud, Minot and variants.
Brunn held that this term meant a "religious renegade" or a "conquered race" in the Turkic dialect, whereas the local Tat people were thought to be of heterogenous descent, mixed with the Greeks and the Genoese settlers.
The name of the GTP railway station usually became the name of the town that developed in close proximity to it.
1480–1528), German Anabaptist leader Balthazar Klossowski de Rola (1908–2001), birth name of twentieth-century artist Balthus Baltasar Lopes da Silva (1907–1989), Cape Verdean writer Balthazar P.
Hunaland and its people are mentioned several times in the Poetic Edda, in the legendary sagas, and in chivalric sagas.
In Celtic mythology, the ford was of great importance as a place of passage or limit, a particular goddess Ritona was dedicated to him.
The name has been well used for girls in Denmark and in the Philippines, where it is considered a contraction of María Lourdes.
Jakubowski (1924–2013), American Roman Catholic bishop Thad Jaracz (born 1946), American basketball player Thaddeus Thad Jones (1923–1986), American jazz trumpeter and bandleader Thad Krasnesky (fl.
de Wit (born 1944), Dutch research psychologist Han Woerdman (1942–2020), Dutch physicist Han Yerry (1724–1794), Oneida Native American who fought in the American Revolutionary War Han Zuilhof (born 1965), Dutch organic chemist Women Han Nolan (born 1956), American writer of young adult fiction
The aim of these documents is to compile information on toponymic issues of a certain country, especially from the perspective of standardization of geographical names.
Many scholars suggest that the 1945 poem “Kker a mmis umazigh” (“Rise up Son of Amazigh”) by Mohand Idir Aït Amrane to be its first use as a cultural claim.
George Rogers Clark spoke of himself and men as "Big Knives" or Virginians, in his speeches to the Indians in 1778 after the capture of Illinois.
Groups A name may also be an identifier of a social group, an ethnicity, nationality, or geographical locality.
It is also a male name from Cambodia (meaning bright), and a short form of the male English given name Winston.
Emerson (1925–2015), American Army lieutenant general during the Vietnam War Henry Ford II (1917–1987), American businessman in the automotive industry Henry H.
Melick (1770–1835), founder of Chemical Bank Baltazar Maria de Morais Júnior (born 1959), Brazilian footballer Balthasar Ferdinand Moll (1717–1785), Baroque sculptor Balthasar de Monconys (1611–1665), French magistrate Balthasar Moncornet (c.
It is nearly universal for people to have names; the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child declares that a child has the right to a name from birth.
American Sign Language In the American deaf community and American Sign Language (ASL), there are cultural norms regarding ASL name signs; for example, they must be agreed upon by the named person and the broader deaf community.
Most common in Belgium, it is a short form of the Dutch language given name Hendrik or sometimes Frederik, Erik or Rikkert.
It sided with the Mahdists during the Mahdist War against Ethiopia (1885–1891) and disappeared with the Mahdists' defeat.
Isaiah of Gaza (died 491), Christian ascetic, writer and saint Isaiah I of Armenia, Catholicos (head bishop) of Armenia from 775 to 778 Isaiah of Rostov (1062–1089/1090), Russian Christian missionary, bishop and Orthodox saint Isaiah of Salona (1780–1821) was a Greek cleric Isaiah di Trani (c.
References External links (Canadian) Online historical map digitization project – list of alphabetical town names, links to historical maps Saskatchewan ghost towns
In Slovenia, there are more than 3,500 people with the surname Božič, and more than 500 with the surname Božić (most of them are of Croatian or Serbian origin, since the letter "ć" doesn't exist in the Slovenian alphabet).
Code names of other powers Britain and the United States developed the security policy of assigning code names intended to give no such clues to the uninitiated.
Amy Duncan, the main character in the TV show Good Luck Charlie Amy Elliott Dunne, the main character in Gone Girl by Gillian Flynn Amy Enker, titular character of Australian film Amy.
Another theory says that the word originated from Xhosa, one of South Africa's official languages, and have been derived from the plural prefix ama- and kwerekwere; the latter is an imitative sound that South Africans use to represent the speech of people from other African countries.
These viruses, known as companion viruses, attach themselves in such a way that they are executed when the original file is requested.
In 1939, the government of Siam changed the name to Thailand, although the former name's adjective in English (Siamese) was retained as the name for the fish, cat and conjoined twins.
Biblical sources: "And he erected there an altar, and called it El- [God] elohe-Israel [El, the God of the Patriarch Israel]" (Genesis 33:20).
In 2010, Kristina Schröder, the Minister for Family Affairs, stated in a television interview for the ARD that children were being described as "German potatoes" or "German sluts".
Goy also occurs in many pejorative Yiddish expressions, including: Dos ken nor a goy (דאָס קען נאָר אַ גױ) – Something only a goy would do or is capable of doing.
Isi is a personal name; sometimes an abbreviation of Isidore, Isaac, Israel, Isabel, or Islam, or the equivalents in another language.
Enslaved Black women in the United States prior to the American Civil War were more likely to bear the name than white American women because slave masters often chose their names from literary sources.
Life Born into an old middle-class Venetian family, he was the son of Carlo (1781-1848), an official with the Austro-Hungarian Navy and his noble-born wife Elisabetta de Wasserfall.
Within alphabetic lists and catalogs, however, the family name is generally put first, with the given name(s) following and separated by a comma (e.g.
11 (Mozart), also known as the Nannerl Septent, a composition by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart == References ==
Minou or Minoo is a feminine given name with multiple, unrelated origins and a hypocorism for various names.
Names Like the name Tiffany, the following names have been mistakenly thought to be of modern origin but are actually historical: Aisha, for the Islamic prophet Muhammad's wife.
He had a bumpy childhood which only settled down after his father's death, gaining a laurea in law in 1860.
Lower Lorraine: 10th century duchy (covered much of the Low Countries), downstream from Upper Lorraine (northern France) Les pays de par deçà: used by 15th century Burgundian rulers who resided in the Low Countries, meaning "the lands over here".
Clio was the muse of history, who was responsible for providing inspiration to historians and poets.
390 BC), Chinese philosopher In fiction Mo (Monica Testa), lead character of Alison Bechdel's strip Dykes to Watch Out For See also Moe (given name) Mo (disambiguation) == References ==
In Spain, the second surname is sometimes informally used alone if the first one is too common to allow an easy identification.
Amy Wong, a character in the animated TV series Futurama Amy Yoshida, a character in the manga series, Case Closed Amy Yuuzuki, a main character in the TV series Zyuden Sentai Kyoryuger.
They are also involved in practical projects such as the international standardization of geographical names.
Nicky is a diminutive form of the name Nicholas, Nicola and Nicole, occasionally used as a given name in its own right.
The Inca Empire also had an extensive postal system, which was facilitated by more than 24,000 km (15,000 mi) of roads.
In answer to a parliamentary question in 2007, the cost of the PCGN to the FCO was disclosed as being £59,826.83 for the 2005/2006 financial year.
The Mandarin-translated names do not only differ from their Cantonese counterparts but also among Mandarin-speaking regions, e.g.
The term is also used when an individual changes their name, typically after reaching a certain legal age (usually eighteen or over, though it can be as low as fourteen in several European nations).
Looney Tunes series of cartoons Gabby, from Blaze and the Monster Machines Gabby Jay, the first boxer in Super Punch-Out.
Chip is an English given name and nickname in the United States, which is often a diminutive form of Charles or Christopher.
Frege proposed to resolve this puzzle by postulating a second level of meaning besides reference in the form of what he called sense: a difference in the mode of presentation or the way an object can be "given" to the observer.
It may refer to: People Ed Ames (1927–2023), American singer Ed Asner (1929–2021), American actor Ed Balls (born 1967), British politician Ed Becker, Las Vegas promoter, businessman, private investigator and author Ed Begley (1901–1970), American actor Ed Begley Jr.
Education In 1978, he graduated from the Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures of the university of Ljubljana in Russian and Literature and in Sociology.
The English term "Berber" is derived from the Arabic word barbar, which means both "Berber" and "barbarian." Due to this shared meaning, as well as its historical background as an exonym, the term "Berber" is commonly viewed as a pejorative by indigenous North Africans today.
The masculine given name may also refer to: Saint Hermes, several Christian martyrs Hermes Trismegistus ("Hermes the thrice-greatest"), the purported author of the Hermetic Corpus, a series of Egyptian-Greek wisdom texts from the 2nd century AD and later Hermes L.
Tad Strange, most average citizen in the town of Gravity Falls, Oregon Tad Cooper, Dragon from the tv show Galavant See also Thad == References ==
One way such a virus does this involves giving the virus the same name as the target file, but with a different extension to which the operating system gives priority, and often assigning the former a "hidden" attribute to conceal the malware's existence.
At the beginning of the twentieth century, the term was confined to the academic, cultural or literary domains, especially after the Valencian Renaixença and the nascent Valencian nationalism, which began to use the term along with País Valencià.
The purpose of the Conference is not to settle political disputes between states on the use (or non-use) of particular geographical names.
But the name became so popular that it was subsequently retained in official toponymy, but only to refer to the site at the head of the bay.
Metaphors and similes The use of metaphors from zoology, such as referring to politicians as rats or hyenas, is what the linguistic researcher Aida Sakalauskaite calls "zoometaphors" and Grzegorz A.
In the early Sami dictionaries Kainolats/Kainahaljo had the meaning Norwegian or Swedish man while Kainahalja had the meaning Norwegian or Swedish women, it could also have the meaning peasant.
It may refer to: People Tad Boyle (born 1963), University of Colorado men's basketball head coach and former player Tad Crawford (born 1984), Canadian Football League player Tad Devine (born 1955), American political consultant Tad Dorgan (1877–1929), American cartoonist Edward T.
The -i- (which is important in the phonetic evolution of *Campaniacum) suggests that Campanius is a gens name.
The Tharu people in the central Nepali Terai see themselves as the original people of the land and descendants of Gautama Buddha.
Many later episodes of the Odyssey depict Odysseus facing the relentless hostility of Poseidon – all of which he could have avoided had he persisted in keeping his real name secret.
Chet Wakeman from Taken (miniseries) Chet Zipper, a character from the TV show As Told by Ginger == References ==
The Takrur were from an earlier colony of west African peoples in Darfur and obtained permission from the Emperor of Ethiopia to make a permanent settlement there.
It may come comes from a combination of two words: from the Old Armenian word ալավ (alav) meaning flame, fire[1], and from the Old Armenian երդ (erd) meaning roof, figuratively meaning house, family.
Tu'ungafasi, Tongan–New Zealand rugby union player Isi Yanouka, Yitzhak Yanouka, Israeli diplomat See also Isi (disambiguation) Izzy, similar short name Isi & Ossi, a 2020 German romantic comedy film Joy Isi Bewaji, Nigerian writer
They live in Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Turkmenistan, Kazakhstan, and Kyrgyzstan, Afghanistan, and Russia.
Because of its popularity in Ireland, it is often used in the English-speaking world as an ethnic slur for Irish people.
Ataullah (Arabic: عطاء الله or عطا الله) or the alternative Atallah is an Arabic given name meaning "gift of God", composed of Ata (gift) + Allah (God).
Foreigners were referred to as "barbarians" by the Greeks because they allegedly shouted "bar, bar" incomprehensibly; South Africans assert that when immigrants open their lips, they utter "kwere, kwere".
183 BC), Greek ambassador Apollodorus of Cyzicus, two different persons from ancient Greece, one mentioned by Plato, the other by Diogenes Laërtius Apollodorus of Damascus, 2nd century Nabataean architect and engineer Apollodorus of Macedonia (fl.
However, a woman married prior to April 2, 1981 is entitled to use her spouse's name in the exercise of her civil rights, provided that they were doing so at that date.
In a number of cases in the Russian Empire the surname was given to illegitimate children, interpreting the literal meaning "given by God".
These regions typically have fertile soils resulting from depositions of loess (an exception is the Arme Gäue ["Poor Gäus"] of the Baden-Württemberg Gäu).
The Biblical Hebrew word goy has been commonly translated into English as nation, meaning a group of persons of the same ethnic family who speak the same language (rather than the more common modern meaning of a political unit).
He accompanied the Egyptians to the Battle of Kalnabu, during which the Muslim army was defeated and he was slain.
The difficulty with this theory is how to distinguish names like "Pegasus" from names like "Aristotle".
In descriptive linguistics, the term was first introduced by Leonard Bloomfield to account for uses of synsemantic words as autosemantic in sentences such as I'm tired of your ifs and buts.
Some German code names: Golfplatz (German for "golf course") – Britain, employed by the Abwehr Samland – The United States (from Uncle Sam), employed by the Abwehr Heimdall (a god whose power was "to see for a hundred miles") – long-range radar Wotan – an aerial bombing navigation system.
The Nahuatl name for the Purépecha was "Michhuàquê" ("those who have fish"), whence the name of the Mexican state of Michoacán.
Some of those theories were focused on a very specific source, a memorial plate from 1521, that was placed in the catacombe Chapel of St Maximus in Petersfriedhof, the burial site of St Peter's Abbey in Salzburg (modern Austria).
Sometimes it is given to people surnamed "Gray" (including the baseball players Dolly Gray and Willie "Dolly" Gray), owing to the music hall song "Goodbye, Dolly Gray"; this particularly commonly occurs amongst sailors.
It combines two words: Mohy (Persian: محي), meaning "Reviver", and Din (Persian: دین), meaning "Religion" or "Faith".
When commenting on the partition of Czechoslovakia by Nazi Germany in March 1939, US diplomat George Kennan noted, "To those who inquire whether these peasants are Russians or Ukrainians, there is only one answer.
Scott (1879–1965), British painter, illustrator and comics artist Sep Smith (1912–2006), English footballer Sep Vanmarcke (born 1988), Belgian road racing cyclist Sep Visser (born 1990), Dutch international rugby union player
The true name of God plays a central role in Kabbalism (see Gematria, Temurah, YHWH [the tetragrammaton]) and to some extent in Sufism (see 100th name of God).
300–260 BC), New Comedy playwright Apollodorus of Erythrae, ancient Greek writer Apollodorus of Gela (fl.
Since 1993 no one in Sweden has been baptised as Gert according to the Swedish Bureau of Census, so the name is becoming increasingly rare.
Clem is both a given name, often a short form (hypocorism) of Clement or other, similar names, a nickname and a surname.
Since Catalonia had a well defined identity already, Levante came to designate, roughly, the territories which used to make the Kingdom of Valencia and, often, additionally the Región de Murcia.
It can also be derived from the Late Latin Aeliāna, the feminine form of the Latin family name Aeliānus (of the sun), which is derived from the Greek hēlios (sun).
However, these are used to separate data types used by a program and are irrelevant for identifying their contents.
He says that the sentence "'Odysseus was set ashore at Ithaca while sound asleep' obviously has a sense.
The name originated during the Hundred Years War (1337–1453) between England and France, when English soldiers were notorious among the French for their frequent use of profanity and in particular the interjection "God damn".
Today Berber In Archaic Greece, βάρβαροι (barbaroi) 'barbarians' was an onomatopoeic word to describe languages perceived as defective, as well as their speakers; bar-bar was an imitation of these languages.
Notable people with the given name include: People Artie Bettles (1891–1971), Australian rules footballer Artie Butler (born 1942), American popular music arranger, songwriter and pianist Artie Cobb (born 1942), American poker player Artie P.
Notable people referred to by this name include the following: People Nickname Given name Fictional characters See also All pages with titles beginning with Chip All pages with titles containing Chip Chip (disambiguation) Chips (nickname) Chippy (nickname) Chipper (nickname) == References ==
Biography Aleksandr Matveyev was born in Sverdlovsk but because of World War II he entered and graduated from the Khabarovsk University.
Norwegian annals record a raid by the Kvens on Hålogaland in 1271, marking the last known appearance of Kvens in medieval Scandinavian written records.
Since 1961 – chief of the chair of Russian language and general linguistics at the Ural State University.
mokzvenacode: tsn promoted to code: tn (based on kwenacode: tsn promoted to code: tn which means "crocodile") can be used for anyone belonging to the Tswana Kwena clan).
Godwin High School See also House of Godwin, Anglo-Saxon family Goodwin (disambiguation) List of Old English (Anglo-Saxon) surnames
Computer algorithms:look for a certain number of points of similarity between the compared signatures ...
For example, the role of a signature in many consumer contracts is not solely to provide evidence of the identity of the contracting party, but also to provide evidence of deliberation and informed consent.
Trent (1936–2012), American state legislator and mining engineer Sybil Trent (1926–2000), American actress Tererai Trent (born c.
14th century) Fyodor Rostislavich, also known as Duke Theodore Rostislavich, Fyodor the Black or Fyodor Chermny (c.1230s – d.
As a co-editor, he participated in the thematic issue of the magazine Kronika, dedicated to Tolminski (1994), the onomastic monograph by Pavle Merkù Regional nomenclature in the Slovenian west (2006), the local studies Baška proceedings (2006) and the linguistics proceedings of Pavle Merkù (2007).
The devastation mainly affected the countryside and involved the destruction of fields and orchards.
They invited Tharu people to take land but many Tharus preferred staying "voluntarily landless", as they worried that taking land would make them vulnerable to exploitation from Nepali governmental tax collectors and to attacks from wild animals.
1990 to present After the overthrow of the Panchayat system in Nepal in 1990, the Tharu ethnic association Tharu Kalyankari Sabha joined the umbrella organisation of ethnic groups, a predecessor of the Nepal Federation of Indigenous Nationalities.
Eure (1899–1993), American politician Thad McIntosh Guyer (born 1950), American lawyer Thad Heartfield (1940–2022), American lawyer and federal judge Thaddeus Thad Hutcheson (1915–1986), American attorney and politician Thad J.
External links BBC Wales: Welsh Comings and Goings: The history of migration in and out of Wales BBC News report: The Numbers of Welsh (and Cornish) [2]
Dolly is a given name and nickname, often a diminutive of the English personal names Dorothy and Dolores.
People General Andrea Bosic (born Ignazio Andrej Božič, 1919–2012), Italian actor of Slovene descent B.
1557–1584), assassin of William I of Orange Balthazar Getty (born 1975), American actor and great-grandson of J.
Usage Billie has been in use as an independent name for both American girls and boys since the 19th century.
This term was used in a non-pejorative manner to categorize all individuals of the Shona ethnicity from the region known as Rhodesia in the 1970s, which is presently recognised as Zimbabwe.
Philosophically, Jacques Derrida compared an artwork's title to a parergon and considered it similarly to a simulacrum, and Jean-Luc Nancy took a comparable approach.
Dinh, director of vehicle engineering for the United States Postal Service Han van Dissel (born 1956), Dutch business theorist Han Drijver (1927–1986), Dutch field hockey player Han Grijzenhout (1932–2020), Dutch football player and manager Han Groenewegen (1888–1980), Dutch architect Han G.
The concept of "hypostasis" functions as a kind of conceptual inverse for terms which may have originated as personal names, and have linguistically evolved to become common terms for general concepts and qualities.
It is notable that the papyrus is an onomasticon, but it also lists words that are not known from any other sources, yet their meanings are known (i.e.
Versions of this theory have been defended by Keith Donnellan, David Kaplan, Nathan Salmon, Scott Soames and others.
Medieval Bavarian traveler Johann Schiltberger, who visited Crimea in 1396, mentioned that Islamized Goths inhabiting the mountains of southern Crimea were contemptuously designated as Tat (German: Thatt) by the Muslim Kipchaks dwelling the northern Crimean plains.
In Old Norse sources, Hunaland often has a mythological character and can shift between different parts of Europe, depending on what kind of skills the hero is to show.
In 2014, Prior Lake High School students received a letter purportedly from the school district that described an upcoming "mandatory vagina inspection" for female students.
Eli Cash, in The Royal Tenenbaums Eli Clark, a survivor in the video game Identity V Elijah "Eli" Dingle, on the British soap Emmerdale Eli Ever, in novels by V.E.
Some philosophers, such as Alexius Meinong have argued that there are two senses of the verb "exists", exemplified by the sentence "there are things that do not exist".
Other variants of the name include Ramose and Paramessu; these various spellings could be used to refer to the same person.
Russian Roma emphasize that the Mugat are distinct from them and not part of the Romani society and culture.
Description Praise names are most often given to people, and royal courts tended to have a professional poet or group of poets who composed and sung them for the ruler.
Olusanya (1936–2012), Nigerian academic, administrator, and diplomat Kemi Olusanya (1963–1999), better known as Kemistry, English DJ and record producer Toyosi Olusanya (born 1998), English footballer == References ==
In the latter part of the American Revolutionary War, down to and during the War of 1812, the term was used to designate "Americans".
Budimir saw in the name a reflexion of Indo-European *skwos "gray, grayish", which in Lithuanian gives širvas; S.
Parts of the culture are strongly connected to the language — notably the Eisteddfod tradition, poetry and aspects of folk music and dance.
(1917–1945), American MLB player and World War II Army bomber pilot Billy Sowden (1930–2010), English professional footballer Billy Spanoulis (born 1982), Greek NBA player and coach Billy Spears (1877–1957), Australian VFL player Billy Spence (c.
1785), African-American slave accused of treason Billy Sleeth (born 1979), American soccer player Billy Smart (disambiguation), several people Billy Smiley (born 1957), American Christian music producer, songwriter, and musician Billy Smith (disambiguation), several people Billy Smyth (c.
The first mention of goy in relation to the Israelites comes in Genesis 12:2, when God promises Abraham that his descendants will form a goy gadol ("great nation").
Dyvoet is also mentioned in 1780 in the archives of the Plotho Fund, Rijksarchief, Kortrijk: n ° 4243, year 1780, Sint-Eloois-Vijve, "Proces voor de Wet van Sint-Eloois-Vijve" between A.
Les goddams (sometimes les goddems or les goddons) is an obsolete ethnic slur historically used by the French to refer to the English, based on their frequent profanities.
Ronke can also be interpreted as "someone/something to cherish," especially in extended forms like Aderonke, Ibironke, Aronke, and Folaronke.
Women with the name Men with the name Nellie Briles (1943–2005), American baseball player Nelly Cruz (born 1980), Dominican-American professional baseball player Nellie Fox (1927–1975), American professional baseball player Nelly, stage name of American rapper Cornell Iral Haynes Jr.
Around 54% of Slovenians with this surname live in Carniola, around 28% in the Slovenian Littoral, and around 13% in Slovenian Styria.
(formerly Dog Is Dead) Trevor Cooper (born 1953), English actor Treverance Trev Faulk (born 1981), American former National Football League player Trevor McGrat, a contestant on the TV show Hell's Kitchen (U.S.
An unusual example is the River Cam, which originally was called the Granta, but when the town of Grantebrycge became Cambridge, the river's name changed to match the toponym.
In German, 92% of animal epithets are metaphors, 8% similes, whereas in English, 53% are similes, 47% metaphors.
Woody, also spelled Woodie, is a masculine given name in its own right or a pet form of Woodrow and other names such as Elwood or Heywood.
826), Empress consort of Leo V the Armenian Theda Bara (1885–1955), stage name of actress Theodosia Burr Goodman Theodosia Burr Alston (1783–1813), daughter of U.S.
United States government data also shows that Nannerl was in use as an independent name as well as a diminutive for Anna and its variants by 1916.
Chronicles of Border Warfare: "A history of whites and of the Indian Wars and Massacres", Alexander Scott Withers, 1831 p78-79.
Variant names usually have historical significance but have been superseded by another name that currently has more widespread use.
Businesses Gag names can also be applied to businesses, such as Howard Stern's use of the fictitious "Sofa King": in a hoax advertisement, the store was described as being "Sofa King great" (i.e.
Culture Historically the Mugat used to work as wandering musical entertainers, fortune-tellers, peddlers and beggars.
Wynne (1898–1967), American football player and college head coach Fictional characters Chet Ubetcha, reporter from "The Fairly OddParents" Chet Alexander, from Monsters University Chet, from Turbo Chet Walters, from Beverly Hills Ninja Chet, from Fetch!
The committee has collaborated with the Foreign Names Committee of the United States Board on Geographic Names to agree a joint romanization system, first published in 1994 as the Romanization Systems and Roman-Script Spelling Conventions.
Names derived from theodisc (vernacular) Dutch, Diets and Duyts English is one of the only languages to use the adjective Dutch for the language of the Netherlands and Flanders.
Another difficulty is that different people may have different ideas about the defining characteristics of any individual.
Its origins are partly the old Frankish kingdom (the Franks were once called Hugones, in Latin, and Hūgas in Old English) and partly in the Huns.
Frege again proposed to solve this problem by appeal to his distinction between sense and reference.
Morgan Hank MacLean, in the US post-apocalyptic drama TV series Fallout, played by Kyle MacLachlan Hank Marlow, in the 2017 US monster film Kong: Skull Island, played by John C.
A person's legal name typically is the same as their personal name, comprising a given name and a surname.
Beginning as a Middle English form of Henry, in the modern era it became a diminutive for several names beginning with "Har".
In most areas it is heard, notably Edinburgh, the Borders, and Dingwall, gadgie has a generalised meaning of a man that the speaker doesn't know well.
By the mid-16th century Catholicism became strong in Lithuania and bordering with it north-west parts of White Ruthenia, but the Orthodox church was still dominant.
Olatoye roughly translates to (Deserving of wealth, Worthy of riches or Wealth is worth honor/chieftaincy).
Another suggestion is that the word has its origins in the Congolese language Lingala, where the word "werekere" means to wander around aimlessly.
Riki Honoo, a character in the tokusatsu series Kousoku Sentai Turboranger Riki, a character in the tokusatsu series Chouriki Sentai Ohranger Riki, a Nopon and playable character in Xenoblade Chronicles See also Rikki Ricky (given name)
Tad Spencer, a wealthy resident of Bullworth and member of the Prep clique from Bully (video game) Tad, a longnose butterflyfish in the Finding Nemo franchise Tad Ghostal, the real name of Space Ghost in Space Ghost: Coast to Coast Dr.
According to an article published in the German magazine Der Spiegel, the German football team was said to be segregated into self-appointed groups.
In Ruthenia, the name Isaiah pervaded from Greek, in the form of Isaija, as well as in the abbreviated form Isaj, which in the fifteenth century was popular in Halic Rus, then connected to Poland for a hundred years.
One is a problem about identity statements that Frege raised at the beginning of "On Sense and Reference", and another concerns propositional attitude reports.
In one letter, he praises the general Anysius for a victory he achieved over one thousand Ausuriani that year in a tight defile with a unit of just forty Unnigardae.
1102), Armenian general and ruler of Melitene Gabriel von Salamanca-Ortenburg (1489–1539), Spanish nobleman Gabriel de la Cueva, 5th Duke of Alburquerque (c.
History professor Brian Glyn Williams links the root of the Crimean ethnonym with the term employed by the Caucasian Turkic peoples, namely the Karachays, Kumyks, and Balkars, for their non-Turkic neighbors, such as the Mountain Jews.
Personalities with this name and its variants Famous people with the name Dietfurt or Dievoort or Dievoet etc.
In response to news coverage of this, national players İlkay Gündoğan and Lukas Podolski, active players in the German Football Association (DFB) until 2017, said that it was harmless teasing.
Lidy is the given name or nickname of: Lidy Prati (1921–2008), Argentine painter Lidy Stoppelman (born 1933), Dutch former figure skater Lidy Venneboer (born 1946), Dutch former tennis player See also Liddy Liddie
Stone in the TV series Night Court Harry Sullivan, a companion to Tom Baker's Doctor in the British television series Doctor Who Harry Sultenfuss, a character 1991 and 1994 American coming-of-age comedy-drama movies My Girl and My Girl 2 played by Dan Aykroyd Sheriff Harry S.
Notable people with the surname include: Andrea Bogdani (1600–1683), Ottoman scholar of Albanian origin and Roman Catholic prelate Erjon Bogdani (born 1977), Albanian footballer Gerti Bogdani (1980–2024), Albanian politician Jakob Bogdani (1658–1724), Hungarian painter Llukë Bogdani (d.
Nine copies of the document are known, of which the original Golenischeff copy is the most complete.
Alternate spelling Minoo (Persian: مینو) is a Persian feminine given name meaning “paradise”, “heaven” in use in Iran, South Asia and Central Asia.
Shilha (from Colloquial Arabic Šəlḥa) is a term used to refer to a number of Berber languages spoken across northern Africa.
During the anti-apartheid struggle it was proposed that South Africa should assume the name Azania, to reflect ancient Zanj.
It is an uncommon name of English origin, and originated as a surname to identify people from the city of Chester, England.
LaFevers The television series based on the novel Theodosia, from the play The Royal Master by James Shirley == Notes ==
Dorothea, also spelt Dorothee (German), Dorothée (French), and Dorotea, is a female given name from Greek Δωροθέα (Dōrothéa) meaning "god's gift".
Sakač linked it with the Avestan name Harahvaitī, which once signified the southwestern part of modern Afghanistan, the province Arachosia.
Origin of the term English novelist Nicola Cornick first discussed the Tiffany effect in 2018 after learning about the phenomenon and encountering the term.
Its toponymy was thus given, starting from a blank page, by the various explorers, whalers and sealers who frequented its waters and anchorages, and then in the 20th century, once French possession of the archipelago had been reaffirmed, by a few French institutions.
The term "variant name" as used in the Geographic Names Information System of the United States Geological Survey is a part of American National Standards Institute standard ANSI INCITS 446-2008.
In Western societies in more recent times, Cleo has evolved as a variant or short form of Cleopatra and used as a given name.
1980s-present), English actor Matt Gunther (1963–1997), American actor and model Matt Hobby (born 1985), American actor and comedian Matt L.
He travelled to many Islamic countries and wrote important works, including The Meccan Illuminations (Al-Futūḥāt al-Makkiyya) and The Ringstones of Wisdom (Fusus al-Hikam).
Edie (1927–1998), American philosopher John Edie (New Zealand politician) (1856-1928), Member of Parliament in Otago, New Zealand John Rufus Edie, (1814-1888), member of the U.S.
Distribution Croatian place names can be found in northern Slavic regions such as Moravia (Czech Republic) and Slovakia, Poland, along the river Saale in Germany, in Austria and Slovenia, and in the south in Greece, Albania among others.
1660), Italian Jewish printer Immanuel Bloch (born 1972), German experimental physicist Immanuel Bomze, (born 1958), Austrian mathematician Immanuel Bonfils (c.
By the 8th century, most of the Franks had exchanged their Germanic Frankish language for the Latin-derived Romances of Gaul.
Stone (1907–1989), American investigative journalist, also the "Izzy Awards," a journalism prize named for him bestowed by Roy H.
Amenmose, Amenmoses, Amenmesses or Amenmesse was an Egyptian name, found during the Late Bronze Age.
It is ultimately derived from the Hebrew name יְהוּדָה, which can be transliterated as Yehuḏa, means "praise", and whose short form was more directly adopted into English as Judah.
Alternatively, kven may be linked to Kainuu, a region of Eastern Finland whose etymology is also disputed.
Beginning at Portage la Prairie, Manitoba, and travelling north-west through Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta to British Columbia, the towns along the railway are listed below, in the order they appear on maps.
Clem (1910–1988), American politician Gordon Clem (1909–1970), Australian cricketer John Clem (1851–1937), United States Army general Mary Clem (1905–1979), American mathematician and human computer Mitch Clem (born 1982), American cartoonist See also Klem, a surname
1687), Ottoman poet of Albanian origin Pjetër Bogdani (1627–1689), Albanian writer See also All pages with titles containing Bogdani Bogdan, Bohdan Bogdanov Bogdany (disambiguation)
She argued that even though in Spanish it is defined as a neutral term and not as an insult, in English it can be interpreted as such, and should be avoided.
In a broader sense, this name also referred to all territories under control of Kievan princes, and the initial area of Rus' land served as their metropole, yet this wider meaning declined when Kiev lost its power over majority of principalities.
Eagle from 1230 is a nickname from the bird, while Weasel, Wessel from 1193 and Stagg from 1198 are certainly nicknames from those animals.
It is a compilation belonging to a tradition that began in the Middle Kingdom, and which includes the Ramesseum Onomasticon dating from the end of the Twentieth Dynasty of Egypt, no earlier than the reign of Ramesses IX (reigned 1129–1111 BCE).
The various forms are based on the Greek (Ραμεσσυς: Ramessus), Latin (Ramesses), or Hebrew (רעמסס: Raˁamses, Raˁmeses) forms of the name, all ultimately based on the Ancient Egyptian form: rˁ-ms-sw (𓅭𓇳) "Ra [is] the one who gave birth [to] him".
Winnie or Winny ( WIN-ee) is both a male and a female given name of Welsh origin, a short form (hypocorism) of Edwina, Winona, Winifred or Winnifred, Winter, Gwendolyn, Guinevere (Welsh), Gwyneth (Welsh), and Wynne (Welsh).
One theory considers that it may come from the proto-Romani word for "peasant" and has the same root as the Romani word gav (village).
The name was among the 1,000 most commonly used names for both sexes between the 1880s and the 1980s.
It is sometimes considered a diminutive of the name Lily or a combination of the names Lily and Louise.
For example, if a person is named Abraham, it is uncertain whether the reader will be hinted of the biblical figure or Abraham Lincoln, and only the context provides the proper understanding.
The name has also been commonly used for girls in Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Ireland, Netherlands, and the United Kingdom.
The expulsion phase is considered an extension of the emission phase, triggered by reaching a certain level of spinal nerve activation.
See also List of androgen esters § Nandrolone esters References External links Laurabolin (nandrolone laurate) - William Llewellyn's Anabolic.org Archived 2016-07-26 at the Wayback Machine
Whereas norethisterone has a ketone at C3 and lynestrenol has no substituent at C3, etynodiol has a hydroxyl group at the position.
Each crus begins proximally as a blunt-pointed process in anterior to the tuberosity of the ischium, along the perineal surface of the conjoined (ischiopubic) ramus.
Unlike all other genitally situated cancers, the incidence of penis cancer is related to the sexual mode of transmission.
This indispensable structure is a continuation of the body of the human penis, differing from other mammalian penises in that it has no baculum (or erectile bone) and instead relies exclusively on engorgement with blood to reach its erect state.
Illness and death In 2002, he moved with his family to Villa Carlos Paz (35 km away from Córdoba (city).
"Tissue selectivity and potential clinical applications of trenbolone (17beta-hydroxyestra-4,9,11-trien-3-one): A potent anabolic steroid with reduced androgenic and estrogenic activity".
Dihydrotestosterone butyrate, also known as androstanolone butyrate or stanolone butyrate, as well as 5α-dihydrotestosterone 17β-butanoate, is a synthetic androgen and anabolic steroid and a dihydrotestosterone ester that was never marketed.
Nandrolone furylpropionate (NFP) (JANTooltip Japanese Accepted Name) (brand name Demelon), also known as 19-nortestosterone 17β-(2-furanyl)propanoate, is a synthetic androgen and anabolic steroid and a nandrolone ester.
They are named for Mathias-Marie Duval and Walter Schiller who described them in the late nineteenth century.
Diminished sperm production is a common side-effect of testosterone replacement therapy because of the decreased intra-testicular concentration of testosterone and suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis.
However, at least one case of pseudohermaphroditism (virilized genitalia) has been observed that may have been due to noretynodrel.
Formestane, formerly sold under the brand name Lentaron among others, is a steroidal, selective aromatase inhibitor which is used in the treatment of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer in postmenopausal women.
Conversely, replacement of the C17α alkyl group with an ethynyl group greatly reduces but does not abolish androgenic activity, as in ethisterone (17α-ethynyltestosterone) and norethisterone (17α-ethynyl-19-nortestosterone).
They act by decreasing acetylcholine effects on the smooth muscle of the bladder, thus helping control symptoms of an overactive bladder.
Activation of the androgen receptor stimulates protein synthesis, which increases muscle growth, lean body mass, and bone mineral density.
This detail became less relevant after bolandione and 4-androstenedione were banned by major sporting bodies.
A catalogue of his published obituaries in the archives of The Guardian provides a historical perspective to contemporary news as the deaths of the noteworthy are documented and he reviews their lives.
It is the 3β-sulfate ester and a metabolite of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and circulates in far greater relative concentrations than DHEA.
He scoured Hansard, gossip columns, vote papers and committee reports to compile his profiles of the personnel of the British Parliament and assessed their character traits, history, opinions and psychological drives.
He was the primary artist on Archie, the company's flagship title, from the late 1950s through the mid-1970s.
temperament) tend to yield inconsistent results, while those testing perception and cognition are typically more consistent.
When the sperm is exposed to chemo-attractant, especially progesterone; the sperm will exhibit sudden flagellar arrest, followed by sharp turn and hyperactivation.
From the word mikreh (מקרה), the rabbis derived the term keri (קרי) to refer to an emission of semen.
Identified the first cell surface antigens distinguishing cells of different lineages, introducing the concept of cell surface antigens that could differentiate different cell types.
Spermiogenesis is the final stage of spermatogenesis, during which the spermatids develop into mature spermatozoa.
The language of "andropause" and its supposed parallels with menopause have not been accepted by the medical community.
Julian Hart Lewis FRS (12 August 1946 – 30 April 2014) was an English developmental biologist and researcher whose work shed light on the nature of cellular timing mechanisms and their role in animal development.
The testicles remain in the body cavity in all other vertebrates, including both the cloacal animals.
Society and culture Generic names Mibolerone is the generic name of the drug and its INNTooltip International Nonproprietary Name, USANTooltip United States Adopted Name, and BANTooltip British Approved Name.
History Lynestrenol was developed by the Dutch pharmaceutical company Organon in the late 1950s and was introduced for medical use in 1961.
For reference, circulating concentrations of danazol are in the range of 2 μM at a dosage of 600 mg/day in women.
Ethiopian version The Ethiopian authorities asserted that the two Italians had been killed not by Ethiopian troops but by local people, angered by the bombing of their villages.
However, two 19-nortestosterone derivatives of vinyltestosterone, norvinisterone (17α-vinyl-19-nortestosterone) and norgesterone (17α-vinyl-δ5(10)-19-nortestosterone), have been marketed.
After Malcolm Glazer had completed his takeover of Manchester United he de-listed it from the stock exchange and made it a private company once again.
Chemistry Norgestrel, also known as rac-13-ethyl-17α-ethynyl-19-nortestosterone or as rac-13-ethyl-17α-ethynylestr-4-en-17β-ol-3-one, is a synthetic estrane steroid and a derivative of testosterone.
Testolactone has also been used to postpone precocious puberty because of its ability to block estrogen production.
Decapacitation factors are glycoproteins or glycolipids that stabilize the membrane and prevent premature capacitation.
In 2008, he was diagnosed with prostate cancer which obligated him to undergo chemotherapy sessions every three weeks in the city of Córdoba.
Upon learning of his membership in the Communist Party USA, the Navy promoted him to liaison with the United States Department of State due to a shortage of Japanese linguists.
The polymer has magnetoelastic behavior that allows it to stretch and elongate to better line the vas deferens.
References External links Official website at the Wayback Machine (archived 2025-10-31) Independent replica
This opening is for a while the primitive urogenital opening, and it extends forward to the corona glandis.
Androstenedione, a 19-carbon steroid hormone produced in the adrenal glands and the gonads, is where estrone synthesis originates and is the source of estrogen in postmenopausal women.
6α-MP is structurally related to medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA; 6α-methyl-17α-acetoxyprogesterone) and megestrol acetate (MGA; 6-dehydro-6-methyl-17α-acetoxyprogesterone), which possess androgenic and/or antiandrogenic activity to varying degrees similarly.
Methyldienolone (developmental code name RU-3467), also known as 17α-methyl-19-nor-δ9-testosterone, as well as 17α-methylestra-4,9-dien-17β-ol-3-one, is a synthetic, orally active anabolic-androgenic steroid (AAS) and a 17α-alkylated derivative of 19-nortestosterone.
It is reported that he would have been eligible to be awarded the Purple Heart for a head wound in New Guinea, however he refused treatment and returned to action, wearing an eyepatch.
Quenton Harold Leach (20 August 1972 – 7 April 2020) was an Australian rules footballer who played in the Australian Football League (AFL) for the Fremantle Dockers between 1995 and 1998.
Certain alleles being paired together can lead to complete reproductive failure/incompatibility as a result of differential compatibility between different variants.
It was reported in 2002 that tibolone or its metabolite δ4-tibolone is transformed by aromatase into the potent estrogen 7α-methylethinylestradiol in women, analogously to the transformation of norethisterone into ethinylestradiol.
Pharmacology Etynodiol is a prodrug of norethisterone, and is converted immediately and completely into norethisterone.
It is significantly inferior to aromatase inhibitors in both clinical effectiveness and tolerability as a second-line therapy for breast cancer after tamoxifen failure.
Remains of the left Wolffian duct, such as give rise to the duct of Gärtner, represented by dotted lines; that of the right side is marked w.
The DNA is first packaged with specific nuclear basic proteins, which are subsequently replaced with protamines during spermatid elongation.
In contrast to estradiol, such a polymer is not possible with testosterone because testosterone has only one hydroxyl group and hence does not have the two hydroxyl groups necessary for linking the testosterone units together.
Men can wake up during a wet dream, or sleep through it, but for women, some researchers have added the requirement that they should awaken during the orgasm, and perceive that the female should have an orgasm for it to count as a wet dream.
The Centre for Human Reproductive Science also has psychology collaborations to actively pursue research enabling better understanding of patient feelings and care during fertility treatment; and issues surrounding motivation to be a donor and receipt of donor gametes.
AAS that are listed as marketed may be marketed as one or more esters rather than as the listed AAS itself.
It was also prescribed off-label as a pharmaceutical performance enhancement to weight lifters and other athletes.
Food and Drug Administration approved tadalafil to treat the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia, and for the treatment of BPH and erectile dysfunction (ED), when the conditions occur simultaneously.
Although oxandrolone had long been used to accelerate growth in children with idiopathic short stature, it is unlikely to increase adult height, and in some cases may even decrease it; as such, as of 2015, oxandrolone has largely been replaced by growth hormone for this use.
Research shows that from the age of 36 onwards, sperm motility decreases from 40% Grade A & B to 31% in one's 50s.
Psychopathy is heavily increased if a person has underlying disorders for it when roid rage is present, where research shows the connection between substance misuse/abuse of anabolic steroids to violence, repeated imprisonment, and disrespect for authority.
This is accomplished by the cremaster muscle in the abdomen and the dartos fascia (muscular tissue under the skin that makes the scrotum appear wrinkly).
History The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved air polymer-type A based on literature reports.
At the beginning of the stage, the spermatid is a more or less circular cell containing a nucleus, Golgi apparatus, centriole and mitochondria; by the end of the process, it has radically transformed into an elongated spermatozoon, complete with a head, midpiece, and tail.
The escapees also reported that they found out up to 100 Chinese men remained captives in Vietnam after they were caught and castrated by the Vietnamese after their ships were blown off course into Vietnam.
Early clinical trials demonstrated that Sefaxersen effectively reduced complement factor B (CFB) levels, supporting its advancement into Phase 2/3 trials for IgA nephropathy (IgAN) and Phase 2 trials for geographic atrophy (GA).
Age affects the recovery time, with younger men recovering faster than older men, though not always.
See also Male accessory gland infection (MAGI) Female accessory glands: Skene's glands and Bartholin's glands (cf.
Androgenic Trenbolone enanthate can include several androgenic side effects such as increased body hair growth, acne, and potential baldness in predisposed individuals.
It is more appropriate to compare norclostebol to testosterone propionate due to the use of an ester.
Medical uses Testolactone is mainly used for treating various types of breast cancer in women who have been through menopause or whose ovaries no longer function.
Lynestrenol and its metabolites are predominantly excreted in urine, less in feces, active metabolite norethisterone elimination half-life being 16 or 17 hours.
Saltman Endowed Chair in Science Education was established by UCSD to recognize a distinguished senior member of Biological Sciences faculty for his/her commitment to, and success in teaching science.
Professor Caroline Pukall, who co-wrote the first in-depth study on EH, has suggested using the term throbbing crotch syndrome.
Medical uses Available forms Mestanolone was available in the form of 25 mg sublingual tablets (brand name Ermalone).
The muscular tissue is important in the functionality of the prostate, and provides the force for excreting the fluid produced by prostatic glands.
LDR prostate brachytherapy (seed or line source implantation) is a proven treatment for low to high risk localized prostate cancer (when the cancer is contained within the prostate).
Retraining masturbatory practices and re-calibrating the mismatch of sexual fantasies with arousal are essential when these are contributing to DE.
Synthesis and applications In the total synthesis, bolandione is made by Birch reduction of estrone methyl ether to nandrolone and back-oxidation of the reduced 17-keto group.
Possible problems could be that the egg is not released at the optimum time for fertilization, that it may not enter the fallopian tube, sperm may not be able to reach the egg, fertilization may fail to occur, transport of the zygote may be disturbed, or implantation fails.
Irritable male syndrome (IMS) is an annual behavior pattern that has been described in Soay sheep and other mammals with a strictly seasonal breeding pattern and described in a 2002 literature review of animal behavior by Lincoln A.
Norethisterone is available both alone (brand names Camila, Errin, Heather, Micronor, Nor-QD, others) and in combination with EE (Norinyl, Ortho-Novum, others) or mestranol (Norinyl, Ortho-Novum, others), while norethisterone acetate is available only in combination with EE (Norlestrin, others).
Safety The thoroughness of carcinogenicity and toxicity testing in clinical trials had been questioned after phase I of clinical trials on the basis of presence of styrene and maleic anhydride in the formulation.
Legality Trenbolone enanthate has never had regulatory approval for human use from any single health agency.
The low potency of ethyltestosterone is in notable contrast to norethandrolone (17α-ethyl-19-nortestosterone), the C19 nor analogue.
Usually, it results from obstruction of the scrotal entrance or from overdevelopment and lengthening of a segment of the gubernaculum.
Hai Gaon and Chananel ben Chushiel say that a ba'al keri, while he may study Torah, may not pray until he goes to a mikveh.
Heavy use of anabolic steroids with roid rage can cause heavy distress as well depending on how long the steroids have been abused.
However, they were banned from sports in 1999 by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and are currently on the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) list of prohibited substances.
This can be done to serve as a positive control when assessing the acrosome reaction of a sperm sample by flow cytometry or fluorescence microscopy.
This is curious given that awareness of the condition goes back centuries, with many barely remembered terms having been applied to it between the early 18th through early 20th centuries.
Stanley was diagnosed with prostate cancer in September 2019, and died from the disease on February 9, 2023, at the age of 48.
Kamel Hamed and Labib Salamah, two other members of El Uisci's paramedic team in Ethiopia, supported El Uisci's assertions.
Rather, it is recommended that in vitro fertilization should be offered to women with unexplained infertility when they have not conceived after two years of regular unprotected sexual intercourse.
Society and culture Generic names Norethisterone is the INNTooltip International Nonproprietary Name and BANTooltip British Approved Name of the drug while norethindrone is its USANTooltip United States Adopted Name.
The O-acetate ester of cloxotestosterone, cloxotestosterone acetate (brand name Caprosem), in contrast to cloxotestosterone, has been marketed.
It was used clinically at a dosage of one ampoule (76 mg, corresponding to 50 mg trenbolone base) every 10 days.
SLC4 transporters (namely NBC cotransporters) and epithelial Na+ channels (ENaCs) are essential to downstream signaling pathways and for membrane potential regulation.
Relations Each lateral lamina of the ligament is pierced by the ipsilateral dorsal artery and dorsal nerve of penis.
The ligament does not directly connect to the corpus cavernosum penis, but may still play a role in erectile dysfunction.
It is an androgen ester – specifically, the C17β acetate ester of norclostebol (4-chloro-19-nortestosterone).
Sperm activation has been shown to be caused by calcium ionophores in vitro, progesterone released by nearby cumulus cells and binding to ZP3 of the zona pellucida.
However, controversy on this matter exists, and other researchers have suggested that tibolone and noretynodrel may be aromatized in small amounts to highly potent estrogens (ethinylestradiol and its 7α-methyl derivative, respectively).
"Exchange Theory: The Missing Chapter." Western Economic Journal (Economic Inquiry) 11: 129–146 Hirshleifer, Jack (1976).
This is a conjugate addition and requires the addition of a catalytic amount of a cuprous salt (c.f.
Surgical extraction, if for example a blockage in the vas deferens is suspected to impede fertility, semen can be taken directly from the epididymis.
Italian propaganda later declared that Minniti was subject to torture and mutilation before his death.
Webb was appointed a Deputy Chairman of the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission's Takeover and Mergers Panel on 1 April 2013, having commenced serving as member on 1 April 2001.
In addition, another 2009 study found that the estrogenic effects of tibolone on adiposity in rats do not require aromatization (as indicated by the use of aromatase knockout mice), further in support that 3α-hydroxytibolone and 3β-hydroxytibolone are indeed responsible for such effects.
Prior to his tenure in the Nigerian senate, senator Pam served as member of the constituent assembly that drafted the Second Nigerian Republic constitution (1979) from 1977 to 1978.
Clinical studies of very high dosages of megestrol acetate for breast cancer conducted in the 1980s observed markedly increased appetite and weight gain in treated patients despite them having advanced cancer.
See also MK-0773 MK-4541 TFM-4AS-1 YK-11 References External links Cl-4AS-1 - Santa Cruz Biotechnology
Formestane is often used to suppress the production of estrogens from anabolic steroids or prohormones.
11-Ketodihydrotestosterone (11-KDHT), also known as 5α-androstan-17β-ol-3,11-dione, is an endogenous, naturally occurring steroid and androgen prohormone that is produced primarily, if not exclusively, in the adrenal glands.
Fremantle were behind by one point when Leach took a mark about 30 metres from goal on a moderate angle just seconds before the siren sounded to end the game.
Methylepitiostanol surfaced on the internet as a novel designer steroid in dietary supplements around 2009.
Facial cum shots (or "facials") are regularly portrayed in pornographic films and videos, often as a way to close a scene.
The brand name Durabolin O is a contraction of "Durabolin Oral", Durabolin being a brand name of the nandrolone ester nandrolone phenylpropionate.
Michel van Hulten was the father of Michiel van Hulten, Member of the European Parliament (1999–2004) who was the leader of the Labour Party (Dutch: Partij van de Arbeid) PvdA from December 2005 to April 2007.
In this study, the mean age of those with Peyronie's disease was 68.2 years compared with 61.8 years of those without Peyronie's disease.
However, more recent work suggested that lepidopteran chromosomes are intermediate between holokinetic and monocentric chromosomes.
Methyldienolone is on the World Anti-Doping Agency's list of prohibited substances, and is therefore banned from use in most major sports.
Islam The Muslim conquest of Persia as well as later conquests in the Byzantine Empire and India brought them into contact with eunuchs.
Usually, men will be able to observe a runny/fluid, low-volume semen by themselves during masturbation.
In individuals, testicular activity may vary with changes in social status, nutrition, health, age and other factors.
As such, two testosterone moieties essentially "hang" or "dangle off" of each phloretin unit in the polymer, and these testosterone moieties are slowly cleaved from the polymer.
At the AGM in 2005 Malcolm Glazer opposed Watkins's re-election to the PLC board along with two other directors Philip Yea a fellow non-executive director and Andy Anson.
On 23 May 2012, a serial sex offender legally called Park in the court case was ordered by the committee to undergo this treatment after his most recent attempted offense.
The ectopic testis is initially normal, but if it is ignored after childhood, it may become small and soft, with spermatogenesis arresting and interstitial cell proliferation occurring.
In general, the males who have the highest frequencies of nocturnal emissions may have somewhat lower rates of masturbation.
Platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase is another proposed DF due to the negative correlation between its concentration and the motility of sperm.
Studies of megestrol acetate in elderly patients who experience weight loss are limited and of poor quality with most showing minimal or no weight gain, with no nutritional or clinically significant beneficial outcomes observed.
Dihydrotestosterone acetate, also known as androstanolone acetate or stanolone acetate, as well as 5α-dihydrotestosterone 17β-acetate, is a synthetic androgen and anabolic steroid and a dihydrotestosterone ester that was never marketed.
In 534 men undergoing routine prostate screening for cancer detection (without a specific urologic complaint), the prevalence of Peyronie's disease was 8.9%.
The use of danazol is limited by masculinizing side effects such as acne, excessive hair growth, and voice deepening.
The binding of the axoneme is the result of the presence of a resistance to the microtubule sliding generated by dynein.
The stimulus voltage stimulates nearby nerves, resulting in contraction of the pelvic muscles and ejaculation.
Mansfield then offers an analysis of the historical forces in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, singling out Simone de Beauvoir, Betty Friedan, and Germaine Greer as the key writers to have influenced, what he considers to be, the dismantling of manliness.
Bolandione finds use in the synthesis of 6-dehydronandrolone acetate, a chemical with application in the synthesis of fulvestrant, tibolone, mibolerone, and isotibolone.
The drug is a minor active metabolite of norgestimate, which is a prodrug of norelgestromin and to a lesser extent of levonorgestrel and LNG-A.
Discovery of tumor necrosis factor (TNF), a key immune signaling molecule (cytokine) that, in addition to its promise for the treatment of cancer and other diseases, has provided a powerful research tool in biomedicine (nearly 88,000 articles in PubMed as of May 25, 2011) (1975).
Many DFs are released in secretions from the epididymis and accessory organs of the male reproductive system.
He got the nickname "George" when he was a teacher because he affectionately called most of his male students "George" and most of his female students "Martha".
In 1991, when Martin Edwards floated Manchester United on the stock exchange, Watkins joined the PLC Board as a non-executive director.
He worked with the South Africa and Nigerian Premier leagues in respect of broadcasting and regulatory matters as well as the Egyptian Sports Council and UAE footballing authorities.
In other words, reducing sex drive biologically might inadvertently increase the need for risky or socially unacceptable outlets rather than solving the underlying behavioural problems.
Softcore pornography that does not contain ejaculation sequences is produced both to respond to a demand by some consumers for less-explicit pornographic material and to comply with government regulations or cable company rules that may disallow depictions of ejaculation.
Evaluation of side effects was based on multiple literature reports and collected safety reports from countries where air polymer-type A is already approved.
-Harvey Mansfield, Manliness Mansfield evaluates the concept of manliness as it has been expressed over the course of Western civilization, and considers its virtues.
References External links Oxandrin Homepage, savientpharma.com (via archive.org) Oxandrin Label, fda.gov (retrieved 23 October 2009) "Oxandrolone Side Effects, Interactions and Information".
An unusually low sperm count, distinguished from low semen volume, is known as oligospermia, and the absence of any sperm from the semen is termed azoospermia.
These criminologists also argue that police investigators treating castrated men as less likely to reoffend than non-castrated men may cause an investigation bias and self-fulfilling prophecy.
Paul's Seminary in Regent, Freetown, and he is credited with encouraging young people to join the service of the Church, either as priests or nuns.
On 23 November 1980, he was installed as the first native-born archbishop of the Archdiocese of Freetown in Sierra Leone.
It was assessed in the treatment of breast cancer in women in at least one clinical study in the 1970s and showed effectiveness similar to that of other AAS.
Some jurists such as al-Baydawi considered castration to be mutilation, stipulating laws to prevent it.
While at the RAND Corporation, Hirshleifer wrote a report which tore apart the Department of Water and Power's feasibility report for the Oroville Dam, noting among other things that the report failed to include the cost of building the dam.
ASAP, generally, is not considered a pre-malignancy, or a carcinoma in situ; it is an expression of diagnostic uncertainty, and analogous to the diagnosis of ASCUS (atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance) on the Pap test.
When megestrol acetate is co-administered with zidovudine and rifabutin, there is no significant change in exposure to these medications and no dosage adjustment is necessary.
His 1985 lecture in the Leon Pape Memorial Lecture Series reflected his overall philosophy, and was titled "Science Is With People: A Tribute to Leon Pape".
Burma Campaign In 1943, Richardson joined the Marauders and began a four-month training program to prepare himself and the other Marauders for their attack.
Ampullary glands Each of these branched tubular glands lined by simple columnar epithelium is an enlargement of the vas deferens in its terminal portion.
When it comes to humans, studies comparing dizygotic opposite-sex and same-sex twins suggest the phenomenon may occur, though the results of these studies are often inconsistent.
Research The phenomenon is sometimes associated with males who are experiencing and practicing delayed, multiple, or inhibited ejaculation.
Research into advanced computer-assisted diagnosis of male fertility issues - initially funded by the EPSRC - culminating in the development of the FAST (Flagellar Analysis and Sperm Tracking) software.
The Book of Deuteronomy says that a soldier who became impure through a mikreh lailah ("night occurrence") must leave the army camp, immerse, and only return to the camp in the evening.
and bad." Drawing on classical philosophy, literature, and science, Mansfield argues that manliness is a virtue primarily associated with the male sex which is preferable to widespread institutional gender-neutral ideology.
Among the succession of demons bound and questioned, the personification of Envy is described as headless, and motivated by the need to steal another's head: "I grasp in an instant a man's head ...
When the bandoneonist Aníbal Troilo (1914–1975) went to watch him the first time, Rubén asked him to be his artistic godfather.
In addition, some have a high risk of gynecomastia due to uniquely high estrogenic activity, although this does not apply to 17α-alkylated AAS that are also 4,5α-reduced or 19-demethylated (i.e., that are also dihydrotestosterone (DHT) or nandrolone derivatives, respectively).
3-Keto-5α-abiraterone may counteract the clinical effectiveness of abiraterone acetate, and so inhibition of its formation using the 5α-reductase inhibitor dutasteride is being investigated as an adjunct to abiraterone acetate in the treatment of prostate cancer.
Oxidation by means of Jones reagent followed by ethynylation of the 17-ketone leads to the orally active progestin (6).
"Ultrasonographic monitoring of artificially stimulated ejaculation in three rhinoceros species (Ceratotherium simum, Diceros bicornis, Rhinoceros unicornus)." Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine (1998): 386-393.
The elimination half-life of DHEA-S is 7 to 10 hours, which is far longer than that of DHEA, which has an elimination half-life of only 15 to 30 minutes.
Put to the test, Abyzou says that she does not sleep, but rather wanders the world looking for women about to give birth; given the opportunity, she will strangle newborns.
Since his death, Lucey's work has been rediscovered by younger cartoonists who celebrate his mastery of body language and physical comedy.
Availability and marketing By November 2019, the ICMR had successfully completed clinical trials of the world's first injectable male contraceptive, which was then sent to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for regulatory approval.
In June 2025, Webb was named on the King's Birthday Honours List as a Member of the Order of the British Empire.
Cross section image: pelvis/pelvis-e12-15—Plastination Laboratory at the Medical University of Vienna
The human male genitals consist of testicles and epididymides, ductus deferentes, seminal vesicles and ejaculatory ducts, prostate, bulbourethral glands, and penis.
Temperature control is accomplished by the smooth muscles of the scrotum moving the testicles either closer to or further away from the abdomen dependent upon the ambient temperature.
Diagnosis Diagnosis can be made based on the presence of an empty scrotum and swelling in the perineal area.
Semen collection refers to the process of obtaining semen from human males or other animals with the use of various methods, for the purposes of artificial insemination, or medical study (usually in fertility clinics).
Initially, his specialty was pass defense, but Brown soon rewarded Collier's extensive football knowledge with a broader assistant coaching assignment.
Testosterone cypionate, sold under the brand name Depo-Testosterone among others, is an androgen and anabolic steroid (AAS) medication which is used mainly in the treatment of low testosterone levels in men, including hormone therapy for transgender men.
Treatment for sex offenders The first use of chemical castration occurred in 1944, when diethylstilbestrol was used with the purpose of lowering men's testosterone.
He was drafted from Claremont in the West Australian Football League (WAFL) as a foundation selection in the 1994 AFL draft and played mainly as a defender.
The medication was withdrawn in some countries in 1970 due to concerns about mammary toxicity observed in dogs, but this turned out not to apply to humans.
Leader of the Nation of Yahweh The Nation of Yahweh set up its headquarters in Liberty City, Florida, in 1979.
This is usually done after staining with a fluoresceinated lectin such as FITC-PNA, FITC-PSA, FITC-ConA, or fluoresceinated antibody such as FITC-CD46.
Levonorgestrel acetate (LNG-A), or levonorgestrel 17β-acetate, also known as 3-ketonorgestimate, is a progestin which was never marketed.
Research into the role for paternal sperm DNA damage in unexplained miscarriage, its diagnosis and treatment - as part of the Tommy's National Centre for Miscarriage Research.
Lynestrenol was approved, in the United Kingdom, in combination with mestranol in 1963 and in combination with ethinylestradiol in 1969.
In 2008, at the time of the proposal, these three substances were listed as ingredients in more than 58 dietary supplements which were available for purchase over the counter.
Misrepair-accumulation aging theory suggests that the development of benign prostatic hyperplasia is a consequence of fibrosis and weakening of the muscular tissue in the prostate.
Androstanolone propionate (brand name Pesomax), also known as stanolone propionate or dihydrotestosterone propionate (DHTP), as well as 5α-androstan-17β-ol-3-one 17β-propionate, is a synthetic androgen and anabolic steroid and a dihydrotestosterone ester that is marketed in Italy.
Sex therapy Therapy usually involves homework assignments and exercises intended to help a man get used to having orgasms through insertional intercourse, vaginal, anal, or oral, that is through the way to which he is not accustomed.
By visualizing the flow of saline along the tube and observing it as a shower at fimbrial end, tubal patency can be tested.
In addition to its progestogenic activity, etynodiol diacetate has weak androgenic activity, and, unlike most progestins but similarly to norethisterone and noretynodrel, also has some estrogenic activity.
The drug acts as a long-lasting prodrug of trenbolone when administered via intramuscular injection.
See also List of steroids List of designer drugs § Androgens List of androgens/anabolic steroids available in the United States Notes ?
The drug was studied in the treatment of depression in men along with mesterolone in the mid-1970s but was never introduced for medical use.
The prepuce in both sexes is formed by the growth of a solid plate of ectoderm into the superficial part of the phallus; on coronal section this plate presents the shape of a horseshoe.
The drug is an agonist of the androgen receptor (AR), the biological target of androgens like testosterone and dihydrotestosterone (DHT), and has strong anabolic effects and moderate androgenic effects.
Kinsey defined female nocturnal orgasm as sexual arousal during sleep that awakens one to perceive the experience of orgasm.
The body or shaft of the penis is the free portion of the human penis that is located outside of the pelvic cavity.
See also Clostebol Clostebol acetate Clostebol caproate Clostebol propionate Oxabolone Oxabolone cipionate == References ==
This in turn causes both acrosin and hyaluronidase enzymes to leak out of the sperm, making the sperm infertile.
Scientists have discovered that expression of this incompatibility within the embryo depends on the paternal allele of the DDK syndrome.
In contrast to its metabolite nandrolone, bolandione highly selectively stimulates the growth of the skeletal muscles but has only weak androgenic properties.
19-Nor-5-androstenediol, 19-nor-5-androstenedione, and other 19-norandrostane prohormones were considered to be nutritional supplements and were sold over-the-counter in the United States as a result of the Dietary Supplement Health and Education Act of 1994 (DSHEA).
DFs are potent, but can be removed from sperm by gentle centrifugation to produce extremely fertile sperm.
In addition, calculus was reported to mechanically block the ejaculatory duct, leading to infertility.
Reaction with the organometallic reagent and hydrolysis in this case afforded a much higher yield of product (86.7%) than in the first case.
During the 1960s and the early 1970s, Lucey drew most of the stories in the Archie title, as well as drawing stories for many of the other titles.
Asymmetry One testis is typically lower than the other, which is believed to function to avoid compression in the event of impact; in humans, the left testis is typically lower than the right.
This, he figured, would buy more time for the defensive line and force Unitas to scramble — not his forte.
However, its affinity for the AR is very low; in one study, it showed 0.0029% of the affinity of the anabolic steroid metribolone (100%) for the human AR (Ki = 41 μM and 1.18 nM, respectively).
Non-traditional biblical scholars see the Leviticus regulations as having originally derived from taboo against contact with semen, because it was considered to house life itself, and was thus thought of as sacred.
All domestic species have these glands except the dog, and their mucus secretion serves to clear the urethra of urine and to lubricate it and the vagina.
This eventually led to a change of Hong Kong Listing Rules to require poll voting in all companies from 2009 onwards.
Between 1990 and 2001, he served eleven years of an eighteen-year sentence on a Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) conviction after he and several other Nation of Yahweh members were convicted of conspiracy for their ex-followers' role in more than a dozen murders.
The suspensory ligament of the penis is a triangular midline structure anchoring the penis to the pubic symphysis, holding the penis close to the pubic bone and supporting it during erection.
Sefaxersen entered Phase 2 trials (NCT03815825) for geographic atrophy (GA), an advanced form of age-related macular degeneration that leads to irreversible vision loss.
He suggests the quality is more common in men than in women, but does not strictly exclude women, for example he names Margaret Thatcher.
History Ethylestrenol was described in the literature in 1959 and approved for medical use in 1961 and in the United States in 1964.
They have a mesodermal core with a central capillary, all lined by flattened layers of both visceral and parietal cells.
In April 2008 the United States Drug Enforcement Administration published an "Initial Notice of Proposed Rulemaking" concerning the scheduling of three anabolic substances: boldione, desoxymethyltestosterone, and dienedione.
In these studies, the amount of testosterone each individual fetus is exposed to depends on its intrauterine position (IUP).
Consequences of testosterone transfer During prenatal development, testosterone exposure is directly responsible for masculinizing the genitals and brain structures.
A linear polymer of phloretin with phosphoric acid linkers is present as the backbone of the molecule, and testosterone moieties are connected to the free third and fourth hydroxyl groups of each phloretin unit also with phosphoric acid linkers.
Society and culture Generic names Mestanolone is the generic name of the drug and its INNTooltip International Nonproprietary Name, BANTooltip British Approved Name, and JANTooltip Japanese Accepted Name.
Signs and symptoms The ectopic testis can be in the perineal region, the opposite side of the scrotum, the suprapubic region, the femoral region, or the superficial inguinal pouch.
In 2007, a 4.5 ft-long (1.4 m) fossilized penis bone from an extinct species of walrus, believed by the seller to be the largest in existence, was sold for $8,000.
References External links Anatomy photo:44:05-0202 at the SUNY Downstate Medical Center — "The Male Pelvis: The Prostate Gland" pelvis at The Anatomy Lesson by Wesley Norman (Georgetown University) (malebladder) figures/chapter_34/34-3.HTM: Basic Human Anatomy at Dartmouth Medical School
In the latter species, the os penis is located in the lower part of the organ and measures approximately three-quarters of an inch in length." In humans, the rigidity of the erection is provided entirely through blood pressure in the corpora cavernosa.
The Talmud goes on to address the concern that preventing any contact with the penis would make urination more awkward for males, and makes suggestions in this regard.
During the acute phase, microtrauma induces damage to the endothelium, fibrin deposition, and immigration of immune cells into the tunica albuginea.
Some of the fibres of the ligament come to constitute the fundiform ligament of the penis, extending into the scrotal septum.
In urologic pathology, atypical small acinar proliferation, is a collection of small prostatic glands, on prostate biopsy, whose significance is uncertain and cannot be determined to be benign or malignant.
The ovulation-inhibiting dosage of levonorgestrel, which is twice as potent as norgestrel, is approximately 50 to 60 μg/day.
During this phase, the developing spermatozoa orient themselves so that their tails point towards the center of the lumen, away from the epithelium.
References Matt Schudel, "Foreign correspondent David Richardson dies", The Washington Post, Sunday, January 30, 2005.
Unexplained infertility is infertility that is idiopathic in the sense that its cause remains unknown even after an infertility work-up, usually including semen analysis in the man and assessment of ovulation and fallopian tubes in the woman.
Prolonged use of AAS may also lead to psychological dependence, with approximately 1/3 of users experiencing withdrawal symptoms upon cessation.
"Yahweh will be remembered and mourned by the millions of people that he touched through prayer and teachings", his lawyers, Jayne Weintraub and Steven Potolsky, said in a joint statement.
The mixed-pair offspring that did survive the incubation stage were still at a disadvantage, being burdened with a 32.1% increase in mortality between the time that they hatched and 60 days after (during which time they were still in the care of parents).
Additional images See also Bulb of penis Body of penis References This article incorporates text in the public domain from page 1248 of the 20th edition of Gray's Anatomy (1918)
Phase III clinical trials in India were slowed by insufficient volunteers, and the results were published in 2023.
It became a controlled substance in the United States in 2014 with the passage of the Designer Anabolic Steroid Control Act, which explicitly listed it among 27 new steroids as controlled by the Act.
Other related AAS include metribolone (17α-methyl-δ9,11-19-nortestosterone) and dimethyltrienolone (7α,17α-dimethyl-δ9,11-19-nortestosterone).
These enzymes break down the outer membrane of the ovum, called the zona pellucida, allowing the haploid nucleus in the sperm cell to join with the haploid nucleus in the ovum.
This procedure is often called just the "Percoll method", since Percoll was frequently used as the density medium, but other density mediums are now used.
In this role in 1974, he introduced legislation implementing use of the tachograph to better control truck driving and mandatory driver rest periods.
In accordance with its steroidogenesis inhibition, clinical studies have demonstrated that danazol directly and markedly inhibits adrenal, ovarian, and testicular steroidogenesis in vivo.
It is a potent and selective full agonist of the androgen receptor (IC50 = 12 nM) and inhibitor of 5α-reductase types I and II (IC50 = 6 and 10 nM, respectively).
It is an androgen ester – specifically, the C17 acetate ester of trestolone (7α-methyl-19-nortestosterone; MENT).
Formestane was not approved by the United States FDA and the injectable form that was used in Europe in the past has been withdrawn from the market.
Medical uses Etynodiol diacetate is used in combination with an estrogen such as ethinylestradiol or mestranol in combined oral contraceptives for women for the prevention of pregnancy.
Immunofluorescent stain may show eosinophilic hyalin-like globules both inside and outside the cytoplasm that contain AFP and alpha 1-antitrypsin.
The corpora cavernosa are intimately bound to one another with a dorsally fenestrated septum, which becomes a complete one before the penile crura.
Endocrine (hypogonadism, pituitary disorders such as hyperprolactinaemia and Cushing's disease, thyroid disorders, etc.).
"Structure-activity relationships of synthetic progestins in a yeast-based in vitro androgen bioassay".
Early life and career John Wash Pam hails from the rural area of rahwol fwi, ron Foron of BARKIN LADI local government of plateau state.
It is also known as dimethylnortestosterone (DMNT) and by its former developmental code name U-10997.
In practice this means norclostebol is a potent anabolic compound with minimal tendency towards side effects.
Derivatives of ethyltestosterone include norethandrolone (ethylnandrolone, ethylestrenolone), ethylestrenol (ethylnandrol), norboletone, ethyldienolone, tetrahydrogestrinone, bolenol (ethylnorandrostenol), and propetandrol.
His ordination was attended by Sir Milton Margai, Prime Minister of Sierra Leone, all members of parliament, over 100 paramount chiefs and imams, 30 missionary priests and over 3000 people.
The structure tends to migrate caudally, or downward, in hypospadia disorders and is then seen in the bulbous, or penile portion of the urethra.
"A restraint chute for semen collection in white rhinoceros (Ceratotherium simum simum)—preliminary results." Archived 2015-09-24 at the Wayback Machine Proc.
The needles are put into the target positions and between 70 and 150 seeds are placed into the prostate.
Epiandrosterone, or isoandrosterone, also known as 3β-androsterone, 3β-hydroxy-5α-androstan-17-one, or 5α-androstan-3β-ol-17-one, is a steroid hormone with weak androgenic activity.
See also After the siren kicks in Australian rules football References External links Quenton Leach's playing statistics from AFL Tables Quenton Leach at AustralianFootball.com Quenton Leach's WAFL playing statistics at WAFLFootyFacts.net
Reaching the rank of Technical Sergeant, he volunteered to chronicle the 1,000 mile march of the 5307th Composite Unit (Provisional), better known as Merrill's Marauders, and their subsequent fighting.
The drug is also the 17α-methylated derivative of boldenone (δ1-testosterone) and the δ1 analogue of methyltestosterone (17α-methyltestosterone).
It has low estrogenic activity (via aromatization into ethylestradiol following transformation into norethandrolone), strong progestogenic activity, and a high ratio of anabolic to androgenic activity, similarly to other nandrolone derivatives.
Jack Hirshleifer (August 26, 1925 – July 26, 2005) was an American economist and long-time professor at the University of California, Los Angeles.
Forensic psychologist Karen Franklin has described bukkake as symbolic group rape, characterising its primary purpose as the humiliation, degradation and objectification of women.
Dyneins on the two sides of the central pair apparatus are regulated in an opposite way by an activation/disactivation game made by the radialspoke-central pair apparatus, that regulates the flagellar bending.
Legal status Testosterone cypionate, along with other AAS, is a schedule III controlled substance in the United States under the Controlled Substances Act and a schedule IV controlled substance in Canada under the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act.
3-Keto-5α-abiraterone, also known as 17-(3-pyridyl)-5α-androst-16-en-3-one, is an active metabolite of abiraterone acetate that has been found to possess androgenic activity and to stimulate prostate cancer progression.
Active amongst the politicians and journalists in Westminster for sixty years, he also made appearances on British television.
Mice In mice, prenatal testosterone transfer causes higher blood concentrations of testosterone in 2M females when compared to 1M or 0M females.
It is used as an injectable and acts as a prodrug of androstanolone (stanolone, dihydrotestosterone, DHT).
He was elected Deputy Senate President on the senate of the accord between his party and the ruling National Party of Nigeria (NPN).
When partially sterile males mate with wild females, the radiation-induced deleterious effects are inherited by the F1 generation.
Contributions to nutritional science Saltman's research focused on the chemistry, biochemistry and nutritional role of trace metals such as iron, copper, zinc and manganese.
Sonosalpingography (SSG), also known as Sion test, is a diagnostic procedure primarily used for evaluating patency of fallopian tubes.
It is administered via intramuscular injection once every two weeks and acts as a long-acting prodrug of mesterolone.
The whip-like tail (flagellum) of the sperm is studded with ion channels formed by proteins called CatSper.
Epiandrosterone can also be produced from the natural steroids androstanediol via 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase or from androstanedione via 3β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase.
Unlike many other AAS, 17α-alkylated AAS are orally active and do not require intramuscular injection.
Price Theory and Applications, Prentice/Hall International Hirshleifer, Jack; Glazer, Amihai; Hirshleifer, David (2005).
The medication is a prodrug of norethisterone in the body, with etynodiol occurring as an intermediate.
A 1958 article by Hirshleifer began the triumphant comeback of Irving Fisher's theory of capital and interest, now deemed canonical.
Uses Androstadienedione is an important industrial-scale precursor for a wide variety of steroid hormones within the estrane and androstane classifications.
The Third International Consultation on Sexual Medicine defined DE as an intravaginal ejaculation latency time threshold beyond 20 to 25 minutes of sexual activity, as well as negative personal consequences such as bother or distress.
Similarly to extension of the C17α alkyl chain, extension of the C17α ethynyl chain abolishes androgenic activity, as with dimethisterone (6α,21-dimethylethisterone).
In addition, and in contrast to progesterone, 6α-MP has weak androgenic, antiandrogenic, and synandrogenic actions.
When a significant volume of blood flows to the genital region, the penis becomes erect, and the testicles also experience increased blood flow and swelling.
Other work Webb formerly led Hong Kong Mensa, the local chapter of the high-IQ society, between 1998 and 2000.
Since 2008, mebolazine has been used illegally as an ingredient is some dietary supplements, including vitamin B supplements, and in the United States the Food and Drug Administration has taken legal action against such manufacturers.
Health risks Transmission of disease Any sexual activity that involves contact with the bodily fluids of another person contains the risk of transmission of sexually transmitted diseases.
Ectopic testis is used to describe the testis leaving the inguinal canal and entering a site other than the scrotum (ectopia).
Patristic Christian Saint Augustine held that male nocturnal emissions, unlike masturbation, did not pollute the conscience of a man, because they were not voluntary carnal acts, and were therefore not to be considered a sin.
This results in a wide range of post-mating behavior in the females, the most noteworthy being the decrease in sexual receptivity in the females.
In May 1973, he took office as the undersecretary of the Minister of Transport, under premier Den Uyl.
Oral therapy Treatment can be with oral therapy such as pentoxifylline (an anti-fibrotic phosphodiesterase inhibitor).
However, it is described as a very weak muscle-builder compared to other AAS and in relation to this has not been commonly used for such purposes.
Just proximal to the convergence of the two crura, they come into contact with the bulb of (corpus cavernosum of) penis.
Radiation proctitis can be found in 0.5–21.4% of patients who received prostate brachytherapy due to the proximity of the prostate and the large bowel, with significant injury (fistula) occurring in 1–2.4% of patients.
Management ASAP is considered an indication for re-biopsy; in one survey of urologists 98% of respondents considered it a sufficient reason to re-biopsy.
The great apes, despite their size, tend to have very small penis bones, and humans are the only ones to have lost them altogether.
Chemistry Methylepitiostanol, also known as 2α,3α-epithio-17α-methyl-4,5α-dihydrotestosterone (2α,3α-epithio-17α-methyl-DHT) or as 2α,3α-epithio-17α-methyl-5α-androstan-17β-ol, is a synthetic androstane steroid and a 17α-alkylated derivative of DHT.
It is an androgen ester – specifically, a chlorphenacyl nitrogen mustard ester of dihydrotestosterone (DHT) – and acts as a prodrug of these two components in the body.
Nutritional requirements, he maintained, could in theory be provided with total parenteral nutrition.
Early life and education Joseph Henry Ganda was born to Catholic parents in the village of Serabu in the district of Bo.
Genome integrity During spermiogenesis, the haploid post-meiotic stages of gametogenesis in males, several fundamental challenges are encountered.
Schiller–Duval body is a cellular structure seen by microscope in endodermal sinus tumors (yolk sac tumors) which are the most common testicular cancer in children.
Hands-free ejaculation can also be achieved by prostate stimulation alone, either internally (with the use of sex toys, fingers or performing anal sex or pegging) or externally (such as perineum massages), although prostate orgasms without ejaculation (dry orgasms) are also possible.
The most common adverse reactions are pelvic pain and abdominal pain, nausea and faintness (caused by a nerve and blood vessel reaction called vasovagal reaction) and post-procedure spotting.
From 1978 to 1996, he was employed by NGOs, the United Nations and the Dutch Government working in Mali, Burkina Faso, Djibouti, Malaysia, New York, Washington and The Hague.
Lepidopteran chromosomes possess a localized kinetochore plate to which the spindle microtubules attach during cell division.
Testosterone phosphate (brand name Telipex Aquosum) is an androgen and anabolic steroid and a testosterone ester.
Dimitrious Stanley (September 19, 1974 – February 9, 2023) was an American professional football wide receiver.
These are delivered through the affiliated Birmingham Women's Fertility Centre at Birmingham Women's Hospital.
The eye can be rinsed with clean water, the tears also help to flush out the semen, after which the discomfort will subside.
Most men stroke their penis with their hand in a way that vaguely imitates the stimulation from intercourse.
They remain in place but gradually become inactive as the radioactivity decays naturally and safely over time.
Alfred Kinsey found: "...some correlation between the frequencies of masturbation and the frequencies of nocturnal emissions.
The 4 pins on the back of the case were multiplexed and could be either used with Spy-Bi-Wire (serialized version of JTAG) or serial out/ground.
Photo format By default, iPhones save photos in the HEIF (High Efficiency Image File) format, which is a space-saving format with a .heic file extension.
In September 2015, Apple launched a new subset of the Apple Watch, with a stainless steel body and leather band, in collaboration with Hermès.
As with the previous model, the device itself does not contain a charging port and must be placed inside a special Micro USB-equipped charging case.
According to Jacobs, the Model Two would have focused on variation, rather than being an enhancement to or exploiting planned obsolescence of the Model One.
The company has so far not responded to customer criticism and it seems that the Martian office phones are cut off, with support tickets also going unanswered.
The first-generation Apple Watch SE was discontinued following the release of the second-generation Apple Watch SE in 2022.
The included applications facilitate monitoring fitness activities: Heart Rate sensor Pedometer Exercise Standalone Modes: Running, Walking Companion Modes: Cycling, Hiking Sleep Samsung stated that their Gear Fit is the "world's first" wearable device with a curved Super AMOLED touch display.
Vivo BlueOS, or BlueOS also named Blue River OS, is an open-source distributed operating system developed by Vivo.
Professional printing Like its predecessors, Photos initially included a number of options for professional printing of photos, which could then optionally be turned into books or calendars and mailed to an address.
Due to limitations of the COVID-19 pandemic on certain social gatherings, the smartwatch was released via Samsung's online channels.
The Pine has a Snapdragon S4 system on a chip (SoC) by Qualcomm that has a Cortex-A5 Dual-Core ARM processor running at 1.2 GHz.
It was the major smartwatch carrying the Nokia brand, until the company sold back the health division to the co-founder of Withings in September 2018.
Other environmental groups criticized Apple's emphasis on carbon emissions without accounting for e-waste, due to the difficulty of repairing these products.
iCloud Photo Library iCloud Photo Library is heavily integrated into the app, keeping photos and videos in sync with various Apple devices designated by the user (such as Macs, iPhones, and iPads), including edits and album structures.
Business The company offers firmware, a cloud, manufacturing, service and over-the-air facilities for upgrades.
Martian Watches was a brand of smart watch founded in 2007 in the United States by SilverPlus, Inc., an American company headquartered in Irvine, California.
CNET praises the device for its smooth interface and how it displays notifications and messages in an easily viewable format.
SPOT was not Microsoft's first foray into the smartwatch business—the company previously co-developed the Timex Datalink with Timex in 1994.
However, some investigative reporting has indicated that 94% of Verra's rainforest carbon offsets were allegedly "worthless" and that the standard may worsen global warming.
It pairs with a smartphone with the Nokia Health Mate application and also relays smartphone notifications.
This decision was praised by Monique Goyens, director-general of EU consumer group BEUC, who also called Apple's claims "bogus" and scientifically inaccurate.
As a result, Pebble was forced to cancel shipments for its Pebble 2 and Pebble Time 2 smartwatches, as well as the Pebble Core device, refunding Kickstarter backers.
According to Masimo, Lamego initially declined to join Apple during a meeting between Masimo and Apple executives in 2013, but reconsidered after Masimo chief executive, Joe Kiani, appointed another employee as the company's chief technology officer.
Overview SPOT extended functionality of traditional devices to include features not originally envisaged for them; a SPOT-powered coffeemaker, for example, would be able to display information such as weather forecasts on an electronic visual display.
Customers who had been using the Aperture application, abandoned by Apple on the release of Photos, were particularly angry about loss of professional-standard functionality.
Production was ramped up in March 2015 to increase availability, several months after the release of Android Wear but ahead of the Apple Watch.
All the ceramic case color options have been removed until the launch of the Apple Watch Edition Series 5 in 2019.
SPOT relied on the .NET Micro Framework for the creation and management of embedded device firmware.
The LG G Watch R (model W110) is an Android Wear-based smartwatch announced and released by LG and Google on October 25, 2014.
He concluded that there is no "killer application" so far besides telling the time, which is the basic function of a wristwatch anyhow.
While the Ruputer was available with either 512 KB of storage (original Ruputer), 2 MB (Ruputer PRO), or 4 MB of flash memory (Ruputer PRO4), the onHand PC came only in a single version with 2 MB of storage.
The device started shipping in August 2014, and eventually became widely available through Best Buy and Amazon.
In March 2013, Apple hired former Adobe chief technology officer Kevin Lynch, reporting to Bob Mansfield, to lead the watch project, which would become the company's first major new product without input from late co-founder Steve Jobs.
The Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 (stylized as Samsung Galaxy Watch6) is a series of Wear OS-based smartwatches manufactured, developed and designed by Samsung Electronics.
Gear Live was initially available in the United States and Canada at US$199 on the Google Play Store, and from Google's Play Store in the UK for £169.
In May 2025, COROS introduced the COROS Launch Repair Program, allowing customers to replace parts for selected COROS wearables, such as the battery, dial, screen and buttons.
Analysts estimate Apple sold 18 million watches in 2017, 31 million in 2019, and 34 million in 2020.
Messages could be displayed during an alarm, and they could be downloaded to the watch or input manually through scrolling characters, activated by two forward/reverse buttons.
Software The G Watch runs Android Wear, which features a notification system based on Google Now technology that enables it to receive spoken commands from the user.
Sales Financial analysts offered early sales estimates from a few million to as many as 5 million in the first year.
Development Pre-release The concept of Pokémon Go was conceived in 2014 through a collaboration between Satoru Iwata of Nintendo and Tsunekazu Ishihara of The Pokémon Company, initially as an April Fools' Day project with Google called the Google Maps: Pokémon Challenge.
Tan alleges that this was a deliberate effort to defraud Kreyos and use its resources to create a turnkey smartwatch solution for other companies.
Sailfish OS Sailfish OS is a Linux-based operating system for various platforms, including Sailfish smartwatches.
Models The first-generation Apple Watch Ultra was unveiled September 7, 2022 alongside Apple Watch Series 8, and began shipping September 23, 2022.
The Olio watch includes several pieces of software licensed under the GNU General Public License, such as the Linux kernel and U-Boot, but Olio Devices never released the source code to any of this software, thus violating the General Public License.
On December 10, 2014, an update started to roll out, adding new features including a watch face API and changed the software to be based on Android 5.0 "Lollipop".
AsteroidOS also includes various mobile Linux middlewares originally developed for Mer and Nemo Mobile such as lipstick and MCE.
Models IBM WatchPad (2000) IBM WatchPad 1.5 (2001) See also ThinkPad laptops WorkPad handhelds References External links Official website at the Wayback Machine (archived 2002-06-09)
Pricing The Galaxy Watch 3 has a retail price of US$399 for the 41 mm and US$479 for the 45 mm option.
References External links Official website Kids smartwatches Archived 1 February 2019 at the Wayback Machine
ModeLabs acquired the license in late-2007 and marketed the first TAG Heuer branded mobile phone in late 2008.
Much of Tizen is open-source software, although the software development kit contains proprietary components owned by Samsung, and portions of the OS are licensed under the Flora License, a derivative of the Apache License 2.0 that grants a patent license only to "Tizen-certified platforms".
Microcontrollers of different architectures such as ARM (M0/3/4/7, A7/17/53, ARM9/11), x86, and RISC-V are supported by the project.
Bands that fit the smaller size class (38, 40, 41 and 42 mm (1.5, 1.6, 1.6 and 1.7 in) watches) and larger size class (42, 44, 45 and 46 mm (1.7, 1.7, 1.8 and 1.8 in) watches) are generally interchangeable within the class.
The Samsung Galaxy Watch 8 (stylized as Samsung Galaxy Watch8) is a series of Wear OS-based smartwatches developed and marketed by Samsung Electronics.
The model number indicated the maximum number of phone numbers that could be downloaded to the watch.
The Samsung Gear Fit is a fitness wristband made by Samsung Electronics, and forms part of their Samsung Gear family of smartwatch devices.
The Samsung Gear Live is an Android Wear-based smartwatch announced and released by Samsung and Google on June 25, 2014.
Applications For health tracking, people could use the ASUS ZenFit app as well as other health apps including Google Fit.
Wear OS was estimated to account for 17.3% of the smartwatch market in Q3 2021, behind Apple's 21.8%.
It used Android Wear, a modified version of Android designed specifically for smartwatches and other wearables.
Models Second generation watches were sold under names Strata (model code SW12-1) and Frame (model code SW12-2).
That December, The New York Times reported that Apple was exploring various ideas, including a "curved-glass iPod that would wrap around the wrist", which users would interact with through the Siri voice assistant, and which "could relay information back to the iPhone".
Reception The Verge praised the design, bright display and the comfort on the wrist, but disliked the inaccurate pedometer and short battery life, and said Android Wear's interface still needed work.
At the end of a session, the user's heart rate is shown alongside the number of "mindfulness minutes" completed for the day, which can also be seen in the Health and Fitness apps on a linked iPhone device.
The line features various health, fitness, and fashion related features and is integrated with Samsung's other products under the Samsung Galaxy brand.
Laptop Magazine liked the internal memory capacity, but feels that the Bluetooth tethering causes too much hassle when connecting.
It is a successor to the Wear 2100, and it includes greater power efficiency, and a separate low power core that can run basic watch functions as well as slightly more advanced functions, such as step tracking.
When the Apple Watch is paired with an iPhone, all music on that iPhone is also available to be controlled and accessed from the Apple Watch.
It can also connect to a computer so that the internal SD card can be recognized as a mass storage device for file management.
Specifications Galaxy Watch The baseline Galaxy Watch series started as the lower cost Galaxy Watch Active line.
Like its predecessor, it incorporates fitness tracking and is compatible with Windows, iOS and Android smartphones via a Bluetooth connection.
The lawsuit seeks to block the use of Masimo's patents in the Apple Watch Series 4 and 5 and to seize seven patents issued to Lamego.
Apple produces bands in a variety of materials and colors; however, third-party bands are still compatible when using Apple's design guidelines.
Its principal improvement over its predecessor is the inclusion of a sensor to monitor blood oxygen saturation.
The Series 4 can also detect falls, and can automatically contact emergency services unless the user cancels the outgoing call.
In August 2014 it was revealed that Martian was teaming up with Guess to launch a range of branded smartwatches.
Reception JR Raphael of Computerworld liked the LG G Watch's superior dimmed-mode display, comfortable band, and easy-to-use charging cradle, but did not like the uninspired design and poor outdoor visibility display compared to Samsung Gear Live.
Overview The watch features a rotating bezel user interface and an IP68 rating for water resistance up to 1.5 meters deep in 30 minutes.
It is based on the Galaxy Watch 4, with the only physical difference being the use of sapphire crystal as glass instead of the Corning Gorilla Glass DX+ used on the original Watch 4.
It was announced on August 28, 2014, as the successor to the Samsung Gear 2 and was released on November 7, 2014.
The charger has changed for the third time in the Pixel Watch series, as this model now offers a side-mounted dock, as opposed to the pin-based charging connector of the Pixel Watch 2 and 3.
Pebble SDK Pebble Technology announced that an open Pebble software development kit (SDK) would be released before shipment of the watches began.
One reviewer noted that with a weight of 108 grams, it weighs nearly as much as the Handspring Visor PDA, which is 174 g.
See also Samsung Galaxy References External links New Tizen 3.0 Update Now Available For Samsung Gear S3 Archived 2021-09-11 at the Wayback Machine
Introduced in September 2022, they are marketed towards endurance athletes and outdoor recreation, and carry a rugged form factor with a wider band, a larger, brighter display, multi-band GPS, a larger battery, water temperature sensor, and additional functionality for diving.
As of August 2025, Samsung Smart TVs run on Tizen, with OTA [Over The Air] updates rolled out as and when Samsung releases them.
Succeeding from the Apple S6, the Apple S7 is the second time utilizing the energy-efficient Thunder cores from the A13 Bionic.
Features The LG-GD910 is constructed using a waterproof, metal casing and has a curved, tempered glass face.
The Toq (pronounced “tok” as in "tick-tock") was a smartwatch developed by Qualcomm which was released in limited quantities as a proof of concept to OEMs in December 2013.
The device is supplied with two interchangeable straps, including a leather strap with a magnetic clasp.
Pebble Technology, Corp announced on its developer site that it is possible to create accessory ports on watchbands, otherwise known as "smartstraps".
The Samsung Gear S3 is a Tizen-based circular smartwatch manufactured, developed and designed by Samsung Electronics.
In 2014, Metawatch announced Meta M1, a premium smartwatch developed in collaboration with Frank Nuovo.
On September 20, 2023, the European Union announced that it would ban most uses of the term "carbon neutral" in advertising by 2026, including claims that are based on carbon offsets, to address greenwashing and misleading advertising.
The update replaces the Android-based operating system of the device with the Tizen-based operating system of its successor, the Samsung Gear 2.
Additional features include a new Apple S6 utilizing the energy-efficient Thunder cores from the A13 Bionic that is up to 20% faster than the Apple S4 and Apple S5, a 2.5× brighter always-on display, and an always-on altimeter.
The Pixel Watch's launch allowed Google to obtain 8 percent of the wearable market share, jumping 16 percent from fourth place to second place, behind Apple.
Google also announced a partnership with Samsung Electronics, who is collaborating with Google to unify its Tizen-based smartwatch platform with Wear OS, and has committed to using Wear OS on its future smartwatch products.
Apple advanced the version number to 26 as part of a shift to a year-based versioning convention across its operating systems.
The smartwatch has Bluetooth LE connectivity, a barometer for several uses including atmospheric pressure and altitude, an accelerometer, a gyroscope and a heart rate monitor.
It synced with Android 4.0+ smartphones, allowing users to scan through texts, emails, phone calls, and other notifications.
It was released along with the LG G Watch as launch devices for Android Wear, a modified version of Android designed specifically for smartwatches and other wearables.
The i'm Watch can receive calls, texts and notifications from social media accounts, provide news and weather reports, control music, view and save photos, and create appointments.
Features Pebble's smartwatches connect to both Android and iOS phones, and using a Bluetooth connection, run native apps that control music on the connected smartphone, display calendars, show fitness/sleep data from Pebble Health, and allow users to set timers.
See also Activity tracker Bluetooth GPS navigation device GPS tracking unit Heart rate monitor Inertial footpod Nike+ FuelBand Pedometer Quantified Self Smart band Smartwatch == References ==
The Silver aluminum case color option was unavailable until the launch of the Apple Watch Series 8 in 2022.
Communication tools When paired with a smartphone, the Band 2 can exchange information with the smartphone.
CNET felt that this distribution model was designed to prevent Apple Store locations from having long lineups due to the high demand.
In November, Google announced that it would acquire smartwatch and fitness tracker maker Fitbit for $2.1 billion, which Osterloh stated would pave the way for Google-developed wearables.
The blood oxygen monitor added red LEDs to the back, allowing the watch to determine oxygen levels by measuring blood color.
The initial designs looked like "a cell phone glued on one's wrist" and in board meetings the term "boat anchor" was used.
The OLED display is a POLED variant with an equivalent resolution to a square display of 320x320, and has capacitive touch input.
The watch contains apps for monitoring athletic activity using a built-in accelerometer to measure strides and GPS to measure distance.
See also Samsung Galaxy Z Fold 3 Samsung Galaxy Z Flip 3 Samsung Galaxy Buds 2 References External links Official website
Unlike most ereaders, it could display colors and refresh fast enough for watching videos, it also included speech recognition technology from Nuance to allow users to dictate replies to text messages.
State of mind history can be viewed through the Health app, which can also be compared alongside physical health data.
The Apple Watch Ultra 2 was unveiled on September 22, 2023, alongside the Apple Watch Series 9; alongside the updated hardware inherited from Series 9, its screen brightness was further increased to 3000 nits.
Ninth generation (Series 9) The Apple Watch Series 9 and Ultra 2 were announced during Apple's "Wonderlust" event on September 12, 2023.
Although previously available for iOS on the App Store and for Android on Google Play, the Olio Assist app is no longer available on either.
Huawei launched the Huawei Watch GT 3 SE on October 29, 2022, intended as a more cost-effective iteration of their Watch GT3 Pro.
It is a POSIX compliant operating system for Internet of things (IoT) devices, and free and open-source software, released under a BSD 3-clause license.
It was first introduced with the release of WatchOS 3 and later alongside the launch of the Apple Vision Pro.
On May 31, 2019, the Band's companion app stopped working and Microsoft offered refunds for customers who were still active platform users.
Strata MetaWatch and Frame MetaWatch are digital smartwatches released in 2012, funded by raising money via the crowd funding platform Kickstarter.
As a phone, it is used in conjunction with a Bluetooth headset and can operate in a hands free manner.
The Apple Watch operates in conjunction with the user's iPhone for functions such as configuring the watch and syncing data with iPhone apps, but can separately connect to a Wi-Fi network for data-reliant purposes, including communications, app use, and audio streaming.
This type of lighting technique is cheaper and simple to use than other methods; however, because the green light used has shorter wavelengths, it is less able to penetrate melanin, the pigment which causes darker skin.
The app reminds users to practice mindfulness through simple guided meditation activities, encouraging users to reflect upon and bring attention to their wellbeing throughout the day.
The initial licensees were Frederique Constant, Alpina and Mondaine, brands owned by Union Horlogère Suisse.
Hardware The Pixel Watch is available in two sizes: 41mm and 45mm, and each offers an option for 4G LTE cellular connectivity.
It ships with Linux kernel 2.6 and also supports Windows CE 5.0, and can sense motion, allowing such possibilities of use such as going into standby mode when a user lowers his/her arm.
The Samsung Galaxy Watch FE (“Fan Edition”) is a cheaper mid-range Wear OS-based smartwatch developed and marketed by Samsung Electronics, which was announced on June 13, 2024, and released globally on June 24, 2024.
Software The smartwatch was released with Tizen 5.5 that features Samsung's unique software overlay.
An SDK with a cross-compilation toolchain integrated to Qt Creator can be generated from OpenEmbedded for easier development.
Reception Ars Technica called Galaxy Watch 3 a “refresh” of Galaxy Watch Active2, which does not have “a ton in the way of new features outside added fall detection”, but “offers all the conveniences you’d expect, like the ability to take calls, check voicemails, and send texts”.
Under normal conditions, the watch goes into standby mode down when not in use in order to extend its battery life.
An ambient light sensor optimizes screen brightness and allows gesture controls such as blanking the screen by placing one's hand over it.
On June 25, 2014, at Google I/O, the Samsung Gear Live and LG G Watch were launched, along with further details about Android Wear.
The Ultra includes a new, orange-colored “Action” button, which can be mapped to different functions, as well as an emergency siren feature.
It was featured in the 2017 film The Fate of the Furious, the CBS TV series Extant starring Halle Berry and the music video for Smartphones by Trey Songz.
The watch was initially designed to be waterproof, but it was found that the manufacturer was unable to apply the desired treatment.
The Galaxy Watch 3 also features a fully rotatable physical bezel with the display glass made from Corning Gorilla Glass DX.
After Further testing on Feb 11th they announced the problem was solved and that the entire senior management team was overseeing activity related to this fix in our production facilities and were manufacturing the new molds to fix the existing hardware.
Purpose A GPS watch is commonly a sports watch (a device used for sports and exercise in general rather than just GPS functionality).
Later that year, the company released two new watches, the APEX Premium Multisport Watch, in two sizes; 42mm, 46mm.
The watch includes a 2-day battery with 15 minutes of charging giving the watch one day of battery life.
Omate later explained that at full speed the heat was not bearable and therefore they reduced the clock speed It was promoted as an IP67 waterproof watch, which included a video of a guy swimming with it.
Overview After beginning a breathe session, a user is instructed to take deep breaths in while several overlapping blue circles grow bigger, exhaling as they return to their original size.
The smaller size at launch was 38 mm (1.5 in), referring to the approximate height of the watch case; the larger size was 42 mm (1.7 in).
As a phone, it can be used in conjunction with a Bluetooth headset and can operate in a hands-free manner with its built-in microphone and speakers, also its Bluetooth functionality supports Stereo Bluetooth for wireless music playback and making calls.
On June 4, 2015, Apple announced that it planned to stock Apple Watch models at its retail locations.
The microphone was moved to the opposite side between the side button and the digital crown to improve call quality.
Google officially announced the Pixel Watch 3 on August 13, alongside the Pixel 9, Pixel 9 Pro, and Pixel 9 Pro Fold, at the annual Made by Google event.
TAG Heuer Connected On November 9, 2015, TAG Heuer announced the launch of their first smartwatch which they named Tag Heuer Connected.
As it was a limited edition product, only a limited number were released in Europe and a few other countries.
One notable feature is that the bezel ring rotates as part of the user interface, although users can also navigate by swiping the screen and/or using the two buttons on the side.
As of 2025, Samsung accounts for the majority of Wear OS devices sold, due to its switch back from Tizen to Wear OS in 2021.
Size Since the introduction of the Apple Watch, it has been available in two sizes (the Apple Watch Ultra being the exception), primarily affecting screen resolution and area.
The Bluetooth radio can be used to maintain a connection with a smart phone running Android, BlackBerryOS or iOS.
Both Space Gray and Gold (introduced with iPhone 8 in 2017) aluminum case color options have been removed.
Other ways of sharing includes e-mail, social platform that integrates through iOS Extensions, or Apple's peer-to-peer AirDrop technology.
John Hanke issued an apology for the server issues at the 2016 San Diego Comic-Con, stating, "we weren't provisioned for what happened".
The watch is charged through a modified USB-cable that attaches magnetically to the watch to maintain water resistance capability, with a reported seven-day battery life.
Android software Many apps install and run with the small 220x176 display, though not often very usably.
On August 14, 2025, Apple announced the return of blood oxygen monitoring to models affected by the import ban.
Three models were approved by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in August, while the Eos model was listed on the Google Play Console device catalog for developers.
In February 2025 the FDA gave approval to unlock the feature, and in March 2025 Google enabled the feature through an update.
Next to the crown (on the same side of the watch) is the Side Button, which can be used to access Control Center and the contactless payment service Apple Pay.
It features a 1.43-inch circular AMOLED display with a resolution of 466 × 466 pixels, housed in a stainless steel case measuring 0.9 cm in thickness.
Its main feature is a 1.5-inch, 132 x 176 pixel, 65k colour touchscreen, which is contained within a plastic watch casing.
The Zypad WR1100 debuted in 2008 and features housing made out of high strength fiberglass-reinforced nylon-magnesium alloy and a biometric fingerprint scanner.
When the device is woken into high-power mode the screen refreshes at 60 fps and fully interactive apps can be run.
The watch has nine axis movement sensors (gyro, accelerometer, compass), barometer, and a heart rate sensor.
Berkeley Carbon Trading Project director Barbara Haya praised the products' ~80% emissions reduction, but also criticized Apple's use of the term "carbon neutral" in advertising.
The second-generation Apple Watch SE is available in Midnight, Silver, and Starlight case color options.
There is also a Companion App for Sailfish OS(Starship) and one for Ubuntu Touch(Telescope), but it has not yet been updated to the current release of Ubuntu Touch.
The fitness features have been expanded to include tracking for kayakers, canoers, and rowers, along with a Tides app and new depth and water temperature sensors.
Availability The LG-GD910 was developed from a prototype that the company first demonstrated in 2008.
The 1st generation was first announced on February 20, 2019, alongside the Galaxy S10 series, the Galaxy Fold, the Galaxy Watch Active and the Galaxy Buds 1st generation at the Samsung's Galaxy Unpacked event, and released in June 14, 2019, as the successor to the Gear Fit 2 Pro.
A power saving mode which reduces the amount of heart rate readings and GPS polling can extend its battery life to around 60 hours.
Since launch, the original Pixel Watch has received multiple Wear OS updates, including the rollout of Wear OS 5.1 based on Android 15 in mid-2025.
Despite being designed as a fitness tracker, the Band has numerous smartwatch-like features, such as built in apps (called tiles) like Exercise, UV, Alarm & Timer, Calls, Messages, Calendar, Facebook, Weather and more.
Apple started the project without specific use cases in mind, not knowing what problems the watch would solve, but felt that "technology was going to move onto the body", according to Alan Dye, who was in charge of its user interface.
Aluminum case models are available in Midnight, Pink, Starlight, Silver, and Product Red color options, while the stainless steel models are available in gold, silver, and graphite finishes.
It is the first model in the lineup to offer a dual-frequency GPS, and is the first commercial smartwatch in the world to support standalone emergency satellite communications and Bluetooth 6.
The processor was stated to run at 1.3 GHz, but on watches with 1 GB RAM and 8 GB storage, the processor only runs at 1 GHz.
Unveiled on February 24, 2014 at Mobile World Congress alongside the Samsung Galaxy S5 and the Samsung Gear Fit, the Gear 2 line is a successor to the Samsung Galaxy Gear.
The Pine smartwatch can be released from the wrist strap by pressing a button on the strap for a better audio signal during a phone call or to take photos with the 5 MP rear-facing camera which is otherwise blocked by the strap.
for connectivity purposes, the Meteor sometimes uses a Bluetooth 4.0 low energy and is compatible to Android, iOS and Windows Phone 8 devices.
The Pixel Watch 2 is a Wear OS-based smartwatch designed, developed, and marketed by Google as part of the Google Pixel product line.
watchOS 10 added mood tracking through the app's "State of Mind" feature, which allows users to log a range of emotions, either at a particular moment in time or their general mood for the day.
In February 2013, The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal again confirmed that Apple was working on a smartwatch with a curved display, and Bloomberg News said the team had grown to about 100 designers.
The Samsung Galaxy Watch series is a line of smartwatches manufactured, designed and produced by Samsung Electronics.
The watch can have other features and capabilities depending on its intended purpose and be a smartwatch.
Fourth generation (Series 4) The Apple Watch Series 4 is the first prominent redesign of the Apple Watch, featuring larger displays with thinner bezels and rounded corners, and a slightly rounder, thinner chassis with a redesigned ceramic back.
It is the first Samsung watch to run Google's Wear OS since the Gear Live, and the first watch to run Wear OS 3, co-developed by Samsung and Google.
Through version 4.0 (released with macOS 10.14 Mojave) the Photos app organized photos by "moment", as determined using combination of the time and location metadata attached to the photo.
Apple also introduced a new glossy aluminum finish in jet black, polished using silicon nanoparticles for a specialized surface shine.
In 2011, after Nokia abandoned the project, Linux Foundation initiated the Tizen project as a successor to MeeGo, another Linux-based mobile operating system.
Features It uses Google Android version 4.1 but is not a Google-licensed device and therefore does not include Google apps or the Google Play store.
The Health app may also prompt a user suffering from regular unpleasant moods to complete standardized assessments for anxiety or depression, and suggest seeking professional help.
For example, after a workout, data can be uploaded onto a computer or online in order to create a log of activities for analysis or sharing.
The Apple Watch SE reverted to the capabilities of the Series 3, dropping the electrical sensors and blood oxygen monitor.
Operating system For the original Galaxy Watch, the Watch Active and Active 2 and the Watch 3, Samsung used its in-house developed Tizen OS, which it previously used for the Samsung Gear series of watches.
Zagg, the owner of a battery case manufacturing company, saw its stock increase by 25% due to the popularity of Pokémon Go.
In 2009, Microsoft announced that it would discontinue the MSN Direct service at the beginning of 2012.
T3 gave it a score of 5/5, calling it a "truly next-gen smartwatch" due to its thinner body and bigger screen compared to the Series 3, and health features.
The ZYPAD debuted in 2006 and the ZYPAD WL 1000 was the first marketed device, followed by the WL 1100 with Windows CE 6.0 support.
Funding After a successful campaign on Kickstarter Neptune managed to raise over $800,000 out of a goal of $100,000.
This mark was superseded in January 2012 with the Mikrogirder model, precise to 1/2,000 of a second.
According to WIMM's Website, in the summer of 2012 WIMM Labs entered into an exclusive, confidential relationship with an unnamed company and ceased sales of the Developer Preview Kit.
Notable new apps added on the Gear 2 include the fitness app S Health, WatchOn—a remote control app which integrates with its infrared blaster, and an integrated music player which can store songs on the device's internal storage.
The Watch Active 2 will stop receiving software and security updates, while the Watch 3 will stop receiving software updates in 2023.
Software The Olio watch comes preinstalled with the Android operating system with a custom user interface and startup logo.
It has a Quad Core 1.0 GHz processor (limited at two running cores from factory) and runs the Tizen operating system.
While it is possible to sideload other Android apps on the device over Android Debug Bridge (ADB), their usability is impaired by the small screen, and an inability to access the Internet directly.
Standard settings include calendar setup (Outlook and Google), global cities, sync intervals, and date/time formats.
See also Android Wear Apple Watch Microsoft Band Pebble References External links BMW ConnectedDrive for Samsung Gear S
Comparison of models The "LTE" models are further divided into sub-models depending on the target country and Service Provider cellular infrastructure available.
On August 14, 2025, Apple reintroduced blood oxygen monitoring for affected Series 9, Series 10, and Ultra 2 Apple Watches with the iOS 18.6.1 and watchOS 11.6.1 software updates.
To circumvent patent disputes, the redesigned app no longer analyzes blood oxygen data through the on-device app.
Intellectual property disputes In December 2019, Joseph Wiesel, a New York University cardiologist, sued Apple over allegations that the Apple Watch violates a patented method for detecting atrial fibrillation.
Its principal improvements over its predecessor were the addition of a compass and an always-on display with a low-power display driver capable of refresh rates as low as once per second.
G Watch was, as of June 2014, only available in the United States and Canada at US$229 or in the United Kingdom for £159 on the Google Play Store.
It is able to be paired with devices running Android 4.3 Jelly Bean or higher and any iPhone running iOS 8 or higher.
The Sony SmartWatch is a line of wearable devices developed and sold by Sony Mobile from 2012 to 2016 through three generations.
With iOS 18 and iPadOS 18, the Photos app received a comprehensive redesign at WWDC 2024, marking its biggest feature update since its introduction.
It is available in two sizes: 46mm and 42mm, with the larger model featuring a titanium case and the smaller one offering a stainless steel option.
The Neptune Pine is an unlocked GSM standalone, full featured smartwatch developed by Canadian consumer electronics and wearable technology company Neptune.
Announced on October 6, 2015, it succeeded the original Microsoft Band and was initially available in the United States, United Kingdom and Canada.
History In May 2023, 9to5Google reported that Google intended to release a successor to the Pixel Watch, a Wear OS–powered smartwatch, in October.
LiteOS variants of kernels has since been incorporated currently into the IoT-oriented open source OpenHarmony kernel agnostic platform and classic HarmonyOS 4.x and earlier versions.
After previewing the watch in September, Google officially announced the Pixel Watch 2 on October 4, alongside the Pixel 8 and Pixel 8 Pro, at the annual Made by Google event.
The App Store lets you download and use various apps specifically designed for the Apple Watch, covering fitness, communication, news, and more.
The LG G Watch (model W100, codenamed Dory) is an Android Wear-based smartwatch announced and released by LG and Google on June 25, 2014.
The Apple Watch Ultra contains a battery 76% larger than that of the Series 8, which Apple rated at 36 hours of usage without using power saving modes (as opposed to Apple's rating of 18 hours on the main line).
History Google officially announced the Pixel Watch 4 on August 20, alongside the Pixel 10, Pixel 10 Pro, and Pixel 10 Pro Fold, and the Pixel Buds 2a at the annual Made by Google event.
Compared to the Gear Fit the new wristband has an updated design, built-in GPS, and the ability to automatically recognize different fitness activities.
The company specializes in designing, manufacturing, and retailing specialist performance-focused GPS sport watches for outdoor sports.
An ADB command can be used to temporarily change the watch's language to another one, which will reset when the device is reconnected to the phone.
Specifications References External links Galaxy Watch on Samsung Newsroom Galaxy Watch 46mm (Bluetooth) on samsung.com
This ruling would allow the ITC to impose an import ban, provided it is not overruled by presidential veto power within a 60-day review period ending December 25.
At the Windows Hardware Engineering Conference of 2003, Gates unveiled a new set of hardware-based navigational controls codenamed XEEL, designed to create a consistent navigation experience across Windows-based devices, such as smart phones, tablet PCs, and those powered by SPOT.
References External links Engadget.com - Here's what it's like to use a watch as a phone XDA-developers.com – Forum: Neptune Pine (stand alone, android, smart watch/phone) Official Neptune Pine videos Neptuneninja.com – Resources, apps and hardware guides for the Neptune Pine
Phone calls can also be answered and placed from the watch (the dialer is launched by swiping up on the clock display), while the "Find My Device" tool can be used to locate the watch with a phone or tablet, or vice versa.
"Glances" allowed users to swipe between pages containing widget-like displays of information; however, this feature was replaced by a new Control Center.
The device largely followed the design language of the preceding Galaxy Watch Active 2 and Galaxy Watch 3, but including all new software.
Reception In Tech Advisor's review, Chris Martin wrote, "This is a great looking smartwatch, although it is quite large.
Fullpower Technologies' 19.99% share was acquired by Union Horlogere Holding BV, giving it 100% of MMT's shares.
The visionOS version of the app features a similar breathing session, which presents a sphere made out of petal-like objects that spread apart when instructed to inhale, slowly returning back to their original formation upon exhale.
It is the second round-faced smartwatch after the Motorola Moto 360 but, unlike the 360, it is the first to feature a full circular display.
To test it, the team created a prototype, an iPhone strapped to the wrist with Velcro, which showed the Apple watch software in its true size and an onscreen watch crown for input.
While this option is not available at retail, Kickstarter backers who wanted waterproofing could have their products transported to a third party, opened, and treated with the aftermarket HzO spray before delivery.
Dispute On January 9, 2020, Masimo and its subsidiary, Cercacor Laboratories, filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, alleging that Apple violated the company's light-based health monitoring patents.
Starting with the Series 4, Apple added electrical sensors to the Digital Crown and back, allowing the Apple Watch to take electrocardiogram (ECG) readings; the device won FDA clearance in October 2018, becoming the first consumer device capable of taking an ECG.
We will keep using the ones we have onboard-there are some workarounds we can apply that will help the limited "alarm" situation.
The device is one of the first smartwatches to ship with Android Wear version 2.0 with LTE (telecommunication) and Android Pay support.
Seventh generation (Series 7) The Apple Watch Series 7 was announced on September 14, 2021, during an Apple Special Event.
The watch's firmware operating system is based on the FreeRTOS kernel and uses Newlib, the STM32 Peripheral Library, the Ragel state machine compiler, and an unnamed UTF-8 Decoder.
Product history The development of the Fossil Wrist PDA began in 1999 when engineer Donald Brewer and Fossil Product Manager Jeff Bruneau licensed a read-only version of the Palm OS from Palm Source and tried to make it work in a watch.
The funding goal of $100,000 was reached within 12 hours, with more than $1,032,000 raised by the end of the campaign.
While completing a reflect activity, the watch displays a screen that cycles through different colors in motion.
Two models of the Gear 2 were released, the Gear 2 and Gear 2 Neo; the Gear 2 has a steel exterior and includes a camera, while the Gear 2 Neo is made from plastic and excludes the camera.
Despite having a smaller, 300 mAh battery, the Gear 2 has increased battery life over its predecessor, with Samsung rating it for 2–3 days of normal use.
Featured Apple-made bands include colored sport bands, sport loop, woven nylon band, classic buckle, modern buckle, leather loop, Milanese loop, and a link bracelet.
The SW2 supported working together with any Android 4.0 (and higher) smartphone, unlike Samsung's competing Galaxy Gear smartwatch, which only worked with some of Samsung's own Galaxy handsets.
The Strata model was initially offered as an iOS-only device due to challenges in developing a version for the Android platform.
It was later also available in Australia through the Sydney flagship store, Microsoft online store, and selected retailers such as JB Hi-Fi and Harvey Norman.
It was announced on August 10, 2022, and released on August 26, 2022 at the Samsung's Galaxy Unpacked event, alongside the Galaxy Z Fold 4, Galaxy Z Flip 4 and Galaxy Buds 2 Pro.
The Apple Watch Series 11 additionally added the Space Gray color option, in addition to the existing Jet Black, Rose Gold, and Silver color options that were introduced with the Apple Watch Series 10.
The watch featured an aluminum body and came with the option of a silicone or metal wristband, but could be used with any 24mm wristband.
An engineering firm in Arizona called Three-Five Systems was able to deliver the display in July 2002.
First generation The 1st generation Apple Watch (colloquially referred to as Series 0) uses the single-core S1 system-on-chip.
Series 3 features LTE cellular connectivity for the first time in an Apple Watch, enabling users to make phone calls, iMessage, and stream Apple Music and Podcasts directly on the watch, independent of an iPhone.
The overall shape and width of the watch have not changed significantly since its release, so customizable bands and accessories are typically compatible with any Apple Watch of the same size class.
They also added a way to show a contextual menu by pressing the display more deeply, called Force Touch.
It was 1.65 inches tall by 1.61 inches wide by 0.35 inch thick, weighed 0.8 ounces and sported a transflective LCD screen with a 220x176 resolution.
Under certain circumstances, the skin may not allow for the light absorption to be read properly and thus provide inaccurate results.
According to Sensor Tower, the game was downloaded more than 10 million times within the first week of being released, becoming the fastest app to ever do so, and reached 15 million global downloads by July 13.
The device runs Palm OS 4.1., and like other Palm OS devices, has a virtual keyboard and touch-sensitive screen with handwriting recognition, giving the Wrist PDA an advantage over the joystick input on the onHand PC.
Second generation (Series 1 and 2) The second-generation Apple Watch has two models: the Apple Watch Series 1 and Apple Watch Series 2.
Other specifics 450 MHz processor ARM 9 i.MX233 Applications Processor Lithium Polymer 450mAh battery 128 MB of RAM Reception Critics have considered the i'm Watch as a flop.
It may be designed for one particular sport or other purpose or provide modes and features to suit several.
The watch consists of a 1.2 GHz Quad-Core Qualcomm Snapdragon 400 processor, 4GB internal storage and 512MB RAM.
Particularly when [you] don't understand just where we are today in terms of technology and capability, but where we are headed.Applications have been developed for watchOS that not only keep users active but also diagnose illnesses.
The Apple Watch Series 1 and Apple Watch Series 2 are the final Apple Watch models available with Yellow Gold and Rose Gold aluminum case color options.
Following the MB-910 showing at the Mobile World Congress 2009 show, a UK release is planned for Q2, priced SIM-free at around £200.
Version history Android Wear Wear OS Wear OS 1 and 2 Wear OS 3 and later See also List of Wear OS devices Android Android Auto Android TV AsteroidOS Google Glass watchOS Facer.io Notes References External links Official website Wear OS apps on Google Play
Hardware manufacturing partners include Asus, Broadcom, Fossil, HTC, Intel, LG, MediaTek, Imagination Technologies, Motorola, OnePlus, Google, New Balance, Xiaomi, Qualcomm, Samsung, Huawei, Skagen, Polar, TAG Heuer, Suunto, and Mobvoi.
Aluminum case models are available in Midnight, Silver, Starlight, and Product Red, and the stainless steel models are available in gold, silver, and graphite finishes.
The Pixel Watch 4 was officially announced on August 20, 2025, at the annual Made by Google event, and was released in the United States on October 9.
Using a 3G module the watch itself is able to connect to the Internet, make phone calls and send SMSs without needing a phone.
Notes and references External links Pic of WWPC WWPC Home Page Archived 2018-06-18 at the Wayback Machine
There is also a known issue where the ZGPAX S5 will lose connection with the Network Operator at random, this is likely the cause of poor manufacturing of the ZGPAX S5's radio.
The team worked on notification vibrations and sounds for more than a year, attempting to make them reflect the nature of different notifications.
Access token manager is an essential component in OpenHarmony-based distributed operating systems, responsible for unified app permission management based on access tokens.
The next batch of Android Wear devices, which arrived at the end of 2014, included the Asus ZenWatch, the Sony SmartWatch 3, and the LG G Watch R.
Despite hardware changes in newer generations, Google has maintained band compatibility across models and introduced more repairable designs with each iteration.
Eventually, the operating system was merged with Nokia Maemo, a Debian-based Linux distro, into MeeGo which was mainly developed by Nokia, Intel and Linux Foundation.
Facer also allows users interested in designing to create their own watch faces through its web-based editor, Facer Creator.
See also List of iPhone models List of iPad models Notes References External links Apple Watch – official site
In October 2013, Cercacor Laboratories chief technology officer, Marcelo Lamego, emailed Apple chief executive, Tim Cook, with an idea for a new technology.
Samsung announced as part of the move to move from Tizen OS to Wear OS by Google starting from August 2022.
Via Google Fit and similar applications, Wear OS supports ride and run tracking, and devices containing heart rate sensors can perform a reading on-demand, or at intervals throughout the day.
The design of the device itself was also refreshed with the move of its camera from the watchband to the watch itself (allowing users to replace their own bands), along with the addition of an infrared blaster and optical heart rate sensor.
Additional new features include International Emergency Calling, enabling emergency calls in over 150 countries, a more energy-efficient S5 processor, improved ambient light sensor, and storage doubled to 32 GB.
Other features included support for WebKit to view web pages, six new watch faces, and new workout running features.
To gauge a user's heart rate, the watch flashes green light from the LEDs at the skin and records the amount of this light that is absorbed by the red pigment of the blood.
The completed or viewed notifications, ESPN scores, and calendar events are in the "past" section, which is highlighted yellow.
The ZYPAD is a PDA designed to be worn on a user's wrist like a bracer and offers interface port features similar to laptop computer.
Motoactv (styled MOTOACTV) is a smartwatch developed by Motorola Mobility, announced on October 18, 2011, and released to the US market on November 6, 2011.
and from the February and March crew log of Expedition 1: We copy the request from Houston on the timex watches.
On September 9, 2024, Apple unveiled a black colour option for the Apple Watch Ultra 2, as well as a sleep apnea detection feature.
Google certification issue (see below) Google Certification Issue During the Kickstarter campaign, Omate claimed the TrueSmart will run Google Play, with the heading of the first Kickstarter update being "Yes, Google Play Apps Store!".
It features a new linear actuator hardware from Apple called the "Taptic Engine", providing realistic haptic feedback when an alert or a notification is received, and is used for other purposes by certain apps.
Instead of heavy management on the module's screen, users can manage their apps and standard module settings through a web-based console from their desktop or smartphone.
The "Seafarer" and "Auto-Graph" were chronographs produced by Heuer to be sold by Abercrombie & Fitch.
As of July 2014, the G Watch was also made available in Australia, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Italy, Japan, South Korea, and Spain.
Huawei Watch Fit 3 successor to Huawei Watch Fit (2020) and Huawei Watch Fit 2 (2022) series, announced and released on May 7, 2024 with a smaller screen and HarmonyOS 4.2 preinstalled.
Within 27 hours, the campaign had reached its funding goal of $100,000, and ultimately went on to raise more than $800,000 in 30 days, becoming the highest-funded Canadian Kickstarter campaign at the time.
A new feature called SOS allows users to hold the dock button to make a call to the local emergency line and pull up the user's Medical ID.
The goal of the redesign was to improve usability, simplify library organization, and provide new AI-powered features.
The ban is due to Apple's failure to meet a 40% quota requirement for local component certification implemented by the Indonesian government, according to minister of industry Agus Gumiwang Kartasasmita.
First, their screen is too small to display more than a handful of text, making it awkward to view data.
The Samsung Galaxy Watch Active is a smartwatch manufactured, developed and developed by Samsung Electronics.
Manufacture Modules Technologies Sarl (MMT) is a Swiss company established in Geneva in 2015 which originally specialised in the development and commercialization of "Horological Smartwatch modules", firmware, apps and cloud.
Following Apple's announcement of the Series 7, an independent software development company filed a lawsuit against Apple alleging inappropriate copying of the software keyboard functionality from an app that Apple had previously rejected from its App Store.
Wear OS supports Bluetooth, NFC, Wi-Fi, 3G, and LTE connectivity, as well as a range of features and applications provided through Google Play.
In 2014, Samsung released the Gear 2 smartwatch, which used a Tizen-based operating system rather than Android.
Force Touch hardware was removed, consistent with the removal of all Force Touch functionality from watchOS 7.
Specifications For a time, they were considerably higher-spec than competing products from larger, well-known manufacturers in that they run a fully featured version of Android 4.0.3 and can run apps without the assistance of another connected smartphone or tablet.
In the Carbon Profiling Model these emissions are measured as Embodied Carbon Efficiency (ECE), measured as kg of CO2/m2/year.
In this scenario, potential fuel suppliers wait for shipowners to begin using low-carbon fuels before they invest in infrastructure to supply it, and shipowners wait for the infrastructure to be put in place before investing in ships that can use it.
Failure to commission, keep or provide an updated TM44 inspection report when required by an enforcement authority could lead to a fine of £300 per unit.
They are designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by essentially increasing the price of fossil fuels.
The name "TM44" refers to the technical memorandum TM44, which provides guidelines for these inspections.
The chairman of the committee, Peter Dunne, described report as a 'middle road' through 'complex and contentious' material.
The European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) remains the largest carbon market based on value, accounting for approximately 87% of the global market size in 2023.
Some of the initiatives to date include: Joining US volunteers at the Annual Conference/Lobbying in Washington, D.C., to meeting with Members of Congress.
The report suggested four strategies to be concurrently implemented: Accelerate clean electricity access.
Carbon Bank and Village Development Project In 2009 the Carbon Bank and Village Development Project sponsored by PATT was awarded a 2009 United Nations-backed SEED Award.
2016 acatech study A 2016 acatech-lead study focused on "flexibility technologies" used to balance the fluctuations inherent in power generation from wind and photovoltaics.
Prior to the scuttling of the agreement by the second Donald Trump administration, the agreement was supported by the leading shipping industry lobby, most states, including the European Union, Japan, China, Britain and the United States.
Research based on sample sets between 2004 and 2011 shows that Solar RECs purchased and retired voluntarily in the United States (i.e., not for compliance with a Renewable Portfolio Standard) do not lead to any significant additional renewable energy investment or generation.
Architecture for REDD+ Transactions (ART) is a carbon-crediting programme for jurisdictional and national REDD+ activities.
While these vehicles remained legal to drive in both regions, consumer groups and governments sought to ensure that Volkswagen had compensated affected owners, as it had been required to do in the United States.
Readiness activities may be supported through a delivery-partner model, in which partner institutions assist countries in implementing readiness work under the facility’s operational and reporting arrangements.
The ECO scheme works by placing an obligation on large and medium energy suppliers in England, Scotland and Wales to achieve a minimum level of energy bill savings in homes through energy efficiency installations.
Official registration indicates that a program has approved the project and that the project is eligible to start generating carbon offset credits once it starts.
Cap and Share advocates argue that it is impossible to guarantee that emissions reduction targets will be reached by using a purely price-based mechanism for emissions reduction.
At the same time, carbon credits have been seen as enabling large companies to pollute the environment at the expense of local communities.
Steven Chu has said that "It is absolutely worthwhile to invest in carbon capture and storage", noting that even if the U.S.
They can purchase emission permits, be allocated quotas (such as European Union Allowances (EUA)) or buy carbon credits.
Africa has large reserves of many of these so-called "green minerals, such as bauxite, cobalt, copper, chromium, manganese and graphite.
The stay was deemed dissolved as of April 11, 2022, and the RGGI rulemaking was finally published in the Pennsylvania Bulletin on April 23, 2022.
Description Carbon markets are carbon pricing mechanisms enabling governments and non-state actors to trade greenhouse gas emission credits.
History On September 25, 2008, Tianjin Climate Exchange, co-established by CNPC Assets Management Co., Ltd.
These have frames with relaxed geometry, protecting the rider from shocks of the road and easing steering at low speeds.
In the European Union, 59% of companies that have made investments in both basic and advanced technologies have also invested in energy efficiency measures, compared to only 50% of US firms in the same category.
Cost implications for new coal-fired power plants Newly built coal-fired power plants can be made to immediately use gasification of the coal prior to combustion.
Benefits for the community Setting aside such areas fits with the long-term vision of the communities were hiza'iti lands are set aside for use by the future generations.
Efforts have been made under the G20 to remove fossil fuel subsidies, but they were not successful once again at the recent G20 meeting in Seoul.
By the end of 2011, 26% of South Australia's electricity generation derived from wind power, edging out coal-fired power for the first time.
Shane Ardern, a National Party MP, drove a tractor up the steps of Parliament as part of a protest against the tax.
In January 2016, The Climate Mobilization sponsored a "Climate Emergency Caucus" in Des Moines before the Iowa caucuses, which simulated the state's 2016 Democratic presidential primary caucus.
See also New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme Climate change in New Zealand Energy in New Zealand List of climate change initiatives == References ==
Long-term CER or lCER is a CER issued for an afforestation or reforestation project activity which expires at the end of its crediting period.
The periphery, which encapsulates the residential core, is composed of services and facilities such as supermarkets and gyms.
Further stress of the knee can be relieved by changing seat heights and pedal position to improve the rehabilitation.
These curves have been used for various public and private actors either to assess carbon policies or through the use of a carbon market analysis tool.
Indirectly, through efficient, sustainable use of resources and faster transport of goods and people, car-free cities aim to improve quality of life for residents.
“Embodied carbon refers to the carbon footprint associated with building materials, from cradle to grave," and can be quantified as a part of environmental impact using life-cycle assessment (LCA).
Fifty organisations including Attac Europe, Friends of the Earth International, Global Justice Now, Greenpeace, and the Indigenous Environmental Network, among others, signed a petition against ICAO measures.
In 2012, South Pole acquired a major stake in Australian carbon farming project developer and offset retailer, Sydney-based Climate Friendly.
On 22 April 2021, along with an open letter to Grant Shapps with fifteen signatures, the Railway Industry Association published their report "Why Rail Electrification".
Jeff Huang is assistant chairman of Tianjin Climate Exchange and vice-president of Chicago Climate Exchange.
Defeat devices were built into many vehicles by manufacturers, but aftermarket parts or software, such as modified exhausts and chip tuning products and services, are considered defeat devices if they inhibit or bypass a vehicle's emissions controls.
These criteria include, for instance, remoteness, dependency on transport, connectivity to main markets, food security, and disaster response.
The UNFCCC's International Transaction Log has already validated and transferred CERs into the accounts of some national climate registries, although European operators are waiting for the European Commission to facilitate the transfer of their units into the registries of their Member States.
The One-Tonne Challenge was a challenge presented by the Government of Canada in March 2004 for Canadians to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by one tonne each year.
However, with the election of Stephen Harper's Conservative Government in 2006, the One Tonne Challenge was scrapped.
To contribute to the ongoing effort for rehabilitation, they initiated development projects that addressed in the first place land conservation, ecosystem services, and livelihood.
Subsequent inspections must be conducted by an accredited energy assessor within five years of the previous inspection.
IPCC scenarios "generally indicate that growth in renewable energy will be widespread around the world".
The stringency of the cap and expected amount of emission reductions, however, will remain unchanged.
The German government also explained its public participation process at the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 21) on 9 December 2015.
Element Markets also develops renewable energy and greenhouse gas emission reduction (carbon offset) projects.
Article 6 of the Paris Agreement includes three mechanisms for "voluntary cooperation" between countries toward climate goals, including carbon credit markets.
Offsets Offset credits represent a project that verifiably reduces at least one metric ton of greenhouse gases in Washington state.
Physical soil and water conservation has been implemented to enhance infiltration, and vegetation growth.
Climate Defiance is a climate movement organization in the United States which uses direct action protests to demand stronger climate change mitigation policies.
According to varying calculation methods of business as usual scenarios, this can indicate 233.1 million tCO2e or more.
Marco Springmann, from the Oxford University's Oxford Martin Programme on the Future of Food also proposed a tax on meat and dairy.
Although not the same as electrification, the organisation and others suggest modal shift away from roads to an electrified railway, will also help the climate.
Personal Carbon Allowances (PCAs) – described in the book "How we can save the planet" by Mayer Hillman and Tina Fawcett.
Clean air reference website BAAQMD phone numbers – including 800-EXHAUST (800-394-2878) to report auto exhaust pollution
History The British Standards Institution announced the development of the PAS 2060 Standard for Carbon Neutrality in October 2009 with the objective of increasing transparency of carbon neutrality claims by providing a common definition and recognized method of achieving carbon neutral status.
On 28 June 28 2019, the ONCA issued its advisory opinion, finding the law constitutionally valid (Justice Huscroft dissenting).
The following chart outlines the actual CER realized to date: Additionally, the project design report states Onyx SASA expects to revegetate and reforest the land; upon fulfillment, 150,000 trees will be planted around the landfill.
Modeling Climate Responses: Simulating atmospheric CO2 levels, temperature increases, sea level rise and other changes.
See also Emissions trading Flexible mechanisms Assigned amount units Certified Emission Reduction Emission Reduction Unit == References ==
Ahead of its accession to the EU, Croatia joined the ETS at the start of Phase III on 1 January 2013.
The London Accord is a collaboration between investment banks, research houses, academics and NGOs to produce free research on climate change for financial investors.
The latter also highlights how the tax might be administered - including on the import of frozen carcasses.
The government legislated to ensure that by 2016 electricity retailers in Victoria purchase 10 per cent of their energy from renewables.
The rate of electrification in Britain is often compared to overseas and many acknowledge it is a geopolitical and resource issue as petroleum is a finite resource.
The policy will use Brazil's 2005 emission rate as the business as usual base line for comparison of future emissions.
The RGGI program is currently in its fifth three-year compliance period, which began January 1, 2021.
Unlike most other governments, British Columbia's electricity portfolio largely consists of hydroelectric power, and its energy costs, even with the tax, are lower than in most countries.
The use of carbon registry helps prevent double counting and double issuance while ensuring complete transparency.
It expresses how much an organization is expending to either reduce carbon emissions internally (abatement) or offsetting externally (carbon offset).
The initiative would have raised taxes on the wealthy to fund wildfire management and electric vehicle (and ZEV) incentives and infrastructure.
The funding for the refund comes from the utility providers who pay a carbon tax for polluting the air, and the refund is the dividend portion of the carbon fee and dividend program created by the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006.
Current or past sponsors include Bank of America Merrill Lynch, BHP Billiton, Energy Systems Catapult, CO2 Sciences, the European Climate Foundation, the Grantham Foundation and the UN Foundation.
Gardeners who want to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions can help themselves to eat less meat and dairy produce by growing nut trees which are a good source of tasty, protein-rich food, including walnuts which are an excellent source of the omega-3 fatty acid alpha-linolenic acid.
History The Alliance was launched by Canada and the UK at the COP23 climate summit in November 2017.
In addition to finding a new method for permanent carbon dioxide storage, another objective of the project was to train scientists.
Other issuers of Boya include the University of Vermont and in Australia, primary schools, non-profit organisations, and a neighbourhood association.
References External links California Climate Credit at the California Public Utilities Commission California Climate Credit at the California Air Resources Board
Pilot H24U Like the Kahirós Project, the H24U pilot is a three-year green hydrogen initiative that aims to decarbonize heavy cargo transportation in Uruguay, a sector that currently accounts for 28% of the country's total energy demand.
(2022), involving over 40,000 respondents across 20 countries, found that a global system of tradable emissions quotas was among the most widely supported climate measures, with support rates above 70% in each country surveyed.
Simpson Grierson considered that the key findings of the review were that: the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report represents a consensus on scientific evidence, and should underpin New Zealand's policy.
The CCPs include a principle on sustainable development benefits and safeguards, and ICVCM governance materials describe an Indigenous Peoples and Local Communities Committee as part of its committee structure.
Fiat Chrysler produced over 100,000 model year 2014 through 2016 Ram 1500 and Jeep Grand Cherokee vehicles for sale in the United States with EcoDiesel engines in which the US EPA and the California Air Resources Board alleged had a defeat device.
say rather a peninsula!" The Supreme Court of Canada's Revisitation of the National Concern Doctrine".
In an APCR auction, prices are fixes at Tier 1 (lower) and Tier 2 (higher) prices, and there are a set number of allowances up for auction in each tier.
Industry consequences Renault believes that diesel cars would become significantly more expensive when re-engineered to comply with new emissions regulations as a result of the Volkswagen disclosures, to the point that diesel cars may not be competitive.
Documentation and verification PAS 2060 requires a standard-compliant declaration of achievement of neutrality through a set of Qualifying Explanatory Statements and public disclosure of all the documentation that supports the carbon neutrality claim.
Per capita emissions (in tonnes of CO2-eq, excluding LUCF) averaged 2.8 tonnes for the 122 non-Annex I Parties.
Oversight issues Several certification standards exist, with different ways of measuring emissions baseline, reductions, additionality, and other key criteria.
The province of Alberta, led by then-Premier Jason Kenney, referred its own reference question to the Court of Appeal of Alberta on June 20, 2019.
Since June 2022, the project has been undergoing environmental assessment according to regulatory guidelines issued by the Government of Newfoundland and Labrador.
Clients get to use a specific CEMARS certification logo and are certified against ISO 14064-1 for organisation or PAS 2050 for product or service carboNZero certification is for organisations, products, services or events to make a carbon neutrality claim.
Carbon credits are beneficial exports to the economy as it helps with the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions which can help improve the sustainability of natural habitats.
Mootral was a finalist in the Shell/BBC/Newsweek World Challenge 2009 as one of the 12 most promising solutions to climate change.
Free emission permits, given to sectors vulnerable to international competition, are one way of addressing carbon leakage by acting as a subsidy for the sector in question.
Participants At the launch of The Climate Registry, the following were the participants: US States: Canadian provinces: As of September 24, 2009 all Canadian Provinces and Territories are participating in the greenhouse gas registry.
The communities are invited to design and implement the project themselves; for this purpose, EthioTrees uses a participatory mapping approach during all phases of the project.
At the domestic level, former President Lee Myung-bak had pledged a 7% annual growth rate and a green economic agenda as part of his election campaign.
Criticisms and controversies REDD+ has been the subject of debate about the effectiveness, governance and equity of forest-carbon programmes, and has been criticised by some researchers, Indigenous organisations and civil-society groups.
The Climate Mobilization was launched in September 2014, before the People's Climate March in New York City, specifically to organize politically around the concept of a rapid, World War II-scale government mobilization against climate change.
As at July 2011, ETSWAP is configured for reporting of carbon emissions by the aviation sector and has been used by 600 aviation operators in the UK and 200 in the Republic of Ireland.
Steve Webb, co-founder of Webb Yates Engineers, says: "We’ve known for a long time that aluminium, steel, concrete and ceramics have very high embodied energy ...
Greenopolis gave rewards points to users from 2008 to 2012 through social media websites, Facebook Games and bottle and can recycling via PepsiCo Dream Machines.
Similar to the AGF report, there are many high-profile reports; addressing climate finance sources with a focus on innovative sources.
Other countries The Netherlands, Germany, France and Sweden all recognise the need for carbon capture programmes.
ART TREES also formed part of wider efforts to standardise verification for higher-integrity forest carbon credits after prolonged scrutiny of the voluntary carbon market.
(Denmark ran a pilot greenhouse gas trading scheme between 2001 and 2003 but this only involved eight electricity companies).
The Green Climate Fund (GCF) was established at COP 17 to function as the financial mechanism for the UNFCCC, thereby including REDD+ finance.
The founding agreement stated the goal of the WRCAI was to evaluate and implement ways to reduce their states' emissions of greenhouse gases and achieve related co-benefits.
In September 2009, the National-led government announced that a push would be made for the formation of a Global Alliance to investigate methods of reducing greenhouse gas emissions due to agriculture.
In June 2009, the Midwestern Greenhouse Gas Reduction Accord Advisory Group finalized its draft recommendations.
Denmark Project Greensand A consortium of three companies (Ineos, Maersk Drilling and Wintershall Dea) are running a project to store carbon in the Nini West oilfield.
The report also discussed standardised approaches for over-the-counter transactions, including using reference-contract pricing as a benchmark for more customised bilateral trades.
In November 2008, the National Business Review reported that an international carbon trading company, EcoSecurities Group, had postponed opening an office in New Zealand because of the National Government's decision to delay the NZ ETS.
In particular, they try to avoid or reduce their consumption of tapwater because of the greenhouse gases emitted when fossil fuels are burnt to supply the energy needed to treat and pump it to them.
In a press release, they said: "We respect 10:10's previous work to encourage companies, schools, and churches to voluntarily cut their carbon emissions 10%.
PAS 2060 is a specification detailing how to demonstrate carbon neutrality produced and published by the British Standards Institution.
Simplify and expand carbon market rules, including the Clean Development Mechanism, to encourage reforestation, afforestation and sustainable forest management.
Carbon Fund The Carbon Fund is intended to pilot results-based payments for emission reductions from the forest sector, linking finance to quantified performance by eligible forest emission-reduction programmes rather than treating readiness planning as the endpoint.
HIF global HIF Global is a Chilean company that plans to invest approximately USD 6 billion in the production of green hydrogen in Paysandú, Uruguay, marking one of the largest private investments in the country's history.
This included a joint FCPF/UN-REDD template for Readiness Preparation Proposals (R-PPs) and joint guidance on stakeholder engagement in REDD+ readiness.
Allowances with earlier vintage years can always be used in later years, but allowances cannot be used before their vintage year.
As of 2018, "Embodied carbon is responsible 11% of global GHG emissions and 28% of global building sector emissions ...
The Trust reconfigured the EEBPP to improve its focus and services to business under a new branding called "Action Energy".
UK Educational Programme In 2012, PATT launched a programme to join with almost 600 primary schools in the UK to provide educational materials, including online lesson plans and activities to be downloaded by teachers and used in classes.
The Powering Past Coal Alliance (PPCA) is a group of 188 countries, cities, regions and organisations aiming to accelerate the coal phase-out of coal-fired power stations, except the very few which have carbon capture and storage.
However some industries complained loudly that the tax had harmed them, notably cement manufacturers and farmers.
Marginal abatement costs are typically used on a marginal abatement cost curve, which shows the marginal cost of additional reductions in pollution.
The Stern Report shows that the overall cost of strong early action is much less than the cost of inaction.
"Chicago Climate Futures Exchange Announces First Futures Delivery of Renewable Energy Certificates", Chicago Climate Exchange, August 11, 2009.
In 2012, the EU ETS was also extended to the airline industry, though this only applies within the EEA.
Combined cycle power plants A few Integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC) coal-fired power plants have been built with coal gasification.
The underlying premise being that with fixed payments the once volatile renewable energy projects now become lendable and attractive for financing, thus stimulating growth and innovation.
The Harper government prioritized oil sands development in Alberta, and deprioritized the reduction of greenhouse emissions.
These currencies may have various degrees of convertibility into carbon saved, renewable energy, or national currency.
To further examine support for such policies, Fabre, Douenne, and Mattauch (2025) conducted a complementary study with representative samples of 3,000 Europeans and 5,000 Americans.
At the first UNFCCC Conference of the Parties in Berlin, the G77 was able to push for a mandate (the "Berlin mandate") where it was recognized that: developed nations had contributed most to the then-current concentrations of GHGs in the atmosphere (see Greenhouse gas emissions).
This both decreases demand for goods and services that produce high emissions and incentivizes making them less carbon-intensive.
In March 2010, the advisory group presented a plan to the MGA that called for implementation beginning in January 2012.
While the Midwest has intensive manufacturing and agriculture sectors, making it the most coal-dependent region in North America, it also has significant renewable energy resources and is particularly vulnerable to the climate change caused by burning coal and other fossil fuels.
The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change shows how much money is required by region and by technology to realise a scenario that achieves stabilisation.
For example, a 2008 reforestation project in Phetchaburi, Thailand, brought together schoolchildren, monks, governmental officers, and local villagers with forestation staff in planting over 2500 trees.
Publicity Mootral attracted much attention as runner-up in the FT Global Climate Challenge and Dutch Postcode Lottery.
Carbon markets compensate for companies' greenhouse gas emissions and purchasing these carbon credits can remove or reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
The first four companies to receive the Water Standard were Sainsbury's, Coca-Cola, Sunlight Services Group and Branston.
When sinks resulted in the net removal of greenhouse gases from the atmosphere, Annex I Parties could issue removal units (RMUs).
The establishment of the Carbon Trust was announced in the 2000 UK White Paper "Climate Change - the UK Programme" (Cmd 4913).
Specifically, ride-hailing companies are required by the state to log 90 percent of their miles in electric vehicles by 2030, and the proposition could have increased the number of drivers with electric vehicles.
A climate income would not increase the budget of the government, or utilise the imposed carbon fee as a means to balance the government deficit.
The plan also promotes strategies to reduce emissions from transportation, which account for over 20 percent of local greenhouse gas sources.
Recyclebank is also funded by municipal governments that purchase and operate the required equipment, allowing RecycleBank to operate as a private for profit company.
The analysis focused on publicly listed firms operating in CBAM-covered sectors across 75 countries and assessed stock market reactions at three key stages of the EU legislative process.
Putting a price on greenhouse gas emissions is intended to make fossil fuels more expensive, in turn increasing the competitiveness of alternative fuels (such as methanol) which have so far not been taken up on a large scale.
The CO2 will then be pumped into a network of nearby injection wells where it will be dissolved in water during injection into the basaltic bedrock.
This is based on NZIER modelling which suggests that because allocation protects the competitiveness of New Zealand firms, it reduces the economic impact of the ETS.
Context For many years, there has been severe land degradation and desertification in Tigray and the area became also impoverished; however, a lot of efforts are done to rehabilitate these semi-arid mountain landscapes.
To improve the competitiveness of UK business through resource efficiency; and To support the development of a UK industry sector that capitalises on the innovation and commercial value of low carbon technologies nationally and internationally.
As such, they increase our overall production and use of renewable energy, and decrease our consumption and burning of fossil fuels.
The Declaration was named for the Lofoten archipelago where public concern has successfully prevented offshore development of petroleum reserves.
On 18 November 2015, Volkswagen said that approximately one quarter of the affected vehicle owners had applied to the program, which was estimated to cost at least $120 million in benefits.
It also provides 16 open data tools which track regional and global electricity transitions and coal mine methane emissions standards.
A simplified example: an offer to receive $100 now or $110 in a year implies a 10% simple discount rate.
Criticism and limitations Criticism of TSVCM's approach took place against a broader debate about whether voluntary carbon markets can be expanded while reliably addressing persistent integrity and verification challenges across diverse credit types and project settings.
The ballot initiative did not pass; however, another carbon tax plan, Washington Initiative 1631, has been proposed.
Climate Defiance is supported by Margaret Klein Salamon's Climate Emergency Fund, which provides about half of Climate Defiance's budget.
The first issue of boya occurred on 30 January 2011 in Fremantle, Western Australia at an event hosted by the International Permaculture Service and the Gaia Foundation of Western Australia.
It has been calculated that in total, low and middle incomes would go up under a system of climate income.
The African carbon market is a platform that seeks to integrate climate change mitigation with poverty alleviation for local-level farmers in Africa.
The Lofoten Declaration also helped mobilize efforts for a global treaty on a managed decline of fossil fuel production, such as the Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty Initiative.
For example, if the United States legislated a carbon fee-and-dividend system, China would face the choice of paying carbon fees to the United States or creating its own internal carbon pricing system.
In the traditional energy industry, a few companies with large centralized power stations were perceived as dominating the market as an oligopoly and consequently amassing a worrisome level of both economic and political power.
In 2004, a consortium of the livestock industry agreed to pay for a portion of this research (just not via taxation), and the government reserved the right to reconsider the tax if they or the industry withdrew from the agreement.
Currently several exchanges trade in carbon credits and allowances covering both spot and futures markets.
British Prime Minister Gordon Brown co-chaired with Zenawi from the group's formation in February 2010 to 6 June 2010, when he was replaced by Stoltenberg.
“And I think when you’re talking about motives, you got to look who’s funding the governor’s attack: really rich people.” For this reason, Joe Garofoli of the San Francisco Chronicle alleged that Newsom opposed the measure to further his presidential ambitions.
"If you read the Climate Action Plan carefully, you will find that the exit from coal-fired power generation is the immanent consequence of the energy sector target.
Climate Defiance disrupted the 2023 White House Correspondents Dinner, an event for Exxon CEO Darren Woods, and the speaking events of several powerful Democratic officials, including Tommy Beaudreau, Pete Buttigieg, Jennifer Granholm, Amy Klobuchar, Joe Manchin, Jerome Powell, and Ali Zaidi.
History The APC was founded in 2013 as a joint venture between the automotive industry and UK government to "research, develop and commercialise technologies for vehicles of the future".
The US Environmental Protection Agency has done work on a marginal abatement cost curve for non-carbon dioxide emissions such as methane, N2O, and hydrofluorocarbons.
Renewable Energy Payments are the mechanisms or instruments at the heart of specific state, provincial or national renewable energy policies.
The carbon price was set at AUD$23 per tonne of emitted CO2-e on selected fossil fuels consumed by major industrial emitters and government bodies such as councils.
Created by the State of California in 2001, CCAR promoted and protected businesses’ early actions to manage and reduce their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
In 2025, President Trump signed an executive order to again disband the IWG, and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) subsequently announced plans to "overhaul" SCC calculations.
It holds that external costs - such as the damage caused by climate change - should be borne by those responsible, namely greenhouse gas emitters.
Its main summary of December 2007 said: The IPCC shows that the world needs to act to avoid disastrous climate change, and act now.
In Laos, for example, published research analysed how FCPF-linked REDD+ processes interacted with domestic forest zoning and land governance, and reported stakeholder concerns about participation and timing pressures associated with preparing for results-based finance.
Japan proposed the Zero-Emission Shipping Incentive Scheme, where revenues would be used to incentivise a just and equitable transition.
With this information it is then possible to allocate a project's resources in such a way to minimize the total amount of Carbon Dioxide emitted into the atmosphere through the use of a given piece of space.
The figure represented 20% of total greenhouse gas output by Canadians at the time and aimed to help the country reach its Kyoto Protocol emission reduction targets.
Temporary CER or tCER is a CER issued for an afforestation or reforestation project activity under the CDM which expires at the end of the commitment period following the one during which it was issued.
Root crops such as potatoes and sugar-beet, and crops which are harvested not just once a year but over a long period such as green vegetables and salads, are considered "high risk" in catchment-sensitive farming.
Simon Upton, a former National Party MP and Minister for the Environment, was appointed as a special envoy to liaise with other countries on the issue.
The structure and process of the ETSWAP system was outlined in a Mutual Understanding Document produced by the governments of the UK, Germany, Ireland and The Netherlands, which also dubbed the system "Workflow Automation Project" (WAP).
Climate change can be tackled if the investment is there - and the London Accord is the first comprehensive map for the investment community.
It did, however, find that both cyclists groups had improved executive function and well-being, both with greater improvement in the e-bike group.
Rajendra Pachauri, chairman of the IPCC, said the necessary investment in renewables would cost only about 1% of global GDP annually.
organisations, governments, communities, families, individuals) to demonstrate carbon neutrality for a product, service, organisation, community, event or building.
Purpose and implementation In some cases carbon credit projects are done directly with small-scale farmers, and in other cases large parcels of land are leased to a government or corporation for processes like reforestation or afforestation.
In December 2018 Sydney, Melbourne, Scotland, Scottish Power, Senegal and Israel also joined and in September 2019 seven new members joined including Germany and Slovakia.
SRM aims to reduce global warming by reflecting a small portion of sunlight (solar radiation) away from Earth and back into space.
The voluntary trading scheme recruited 34 participants from UK industries and organisations who promised to make reductions in their carbon emissions, this has since expanded to 54 sectors of the UK economy.
As such, the weighted average cost of carbon is the cost a company incurs to balance its carbon liability (carbon footprint).
Similar to that of the European Union, South Korea has divided its emissions trading scheme into three phases.
An early example of a coal-based plant using (oxy-fuel) carbon-capture technology is Swedish company Vattenfall’s Schwarze Pumpe power station located in Spremberg, Germany, built by German firm Siemens, which went on-line in September 2008.
Cycling also offers a reduced consumption of fossil fuels, less air and noise pollution, reduced greenhouse gas emissions, and greatly reduced traffic congestion.
The company expects to cut carbon emissions from 85,000 to 30,000 tonnes per year with the construction of a new biogas plant in 2013.
Enegem initiated with a 100-megawatt pilot auction to supply green electricity from Peninsular Malaysia to Singapore, targeting licensed Renewable Energy (RE) Bidders in the Singapore Electricity Market.
By enforcing these inspections, the UK government encourages businesses to be more energy efficient and promotes a more sustainable approach to air conditioning.
Improved ecosystem With vegetation growth, biodiversity in this exclosure has strongly improved: there is more varied vegetation and wildlife.
In February 2024 Guyana became the first country to make TREES credits available under CORSIA after completing the required corresponding-adjustment steps.
On December 11, 2008, ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson said that a carbon tax is preferable to a cap-and-trade program, which "inevitably introduces unnecessary cost and complexity".
Renewable energy Renewable energy projects can include hydroelectric, wind, photovoltaic solar, solar hot water, biomass power, and heat production.
The fall of the Soviet Union led to massive restructuring and deindustrialization of many of the former Soviet Bloc.
This initiative enhances regional energy cooperation and promotes the development of renewable energy sources across Southeast Asia.
Provide assistance for developing nations to build capacity to fully participate in the carbon markets, and to evaluate the ecosystem services their forests provide.
Ofgem's Final Determination Report for ECO3 confirms that this target was exceeded, with a total estimated lifetime bill savings of £8.457 billion achieved.
They are designed to improve energy efficiency and reduce the carbon dioxide emissions of air conditioning systems.
In the present time, there is an obvious trend to have more renewable energy sources and therefore to overcome life crisis that can go when oil and gas expire.
Carbon offset The sequestered carbon is certified using the Plan Vivo voluntary carbon standard, after which carbon credits are sold, among others to Davines, an Italian producer of beauty products.
Changes in sinks and land use can have an effect on the climate, and indeed the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change's Special Report on Land use, land-use change, and forestry estimates that since 1750 a third of global warming has been caused by land use change.
Proposal The initiative would have raised taxes by 1.75% on annual personal income in excess of $2 million and directed 45% of the revenue to incentives, 35% to charging stations, and 20% to wildfire prevention.
This reform led to a strong increase in EUA prices in 2018, with prices staying mostly in a range of €18-30/tCO2 from August 2018 to March 2020.
Results show that over 60% of the injected CO2 was mineralized within 4 months of injection, and over 85% of the injected H2S within 4 months of injection.
We are committed to a national mobilization, and to leading a global effort to mobilize nations to address this threat on a scale not seen since World War II.
Federal Minister of Environment and Climate Change Catherine McKenna accused the Ford government of "wasting taxpayers' dollars on misleading stickers" that failed to acknowledge the rebate programs "or the cost of inaction on climate change".
Based on the Kyoto Protocol's Clean Development Mechanism, CEB VER establishes criteria for validating, measuring, and monitoring carbon offset projects with the option to trade carbon credits and use them for surrendering for individuals, organizations or companies that want to be carbon neutral.
A review of empirical research indicates that the impact of such a carbon price on GDP may be limited.
References Japan Denies Buying ‘Hot Air’ to Meet Kyoto Target Russia and carbon trading, New York Times, 28 Dec 2005
The range of measures available through the scheme include heating upgrades, solar panels, wall and roof insulation.
Advisory board TCM's advisory board includes: Laura Dawn, former MoveOn.org creative director Paul Gilding, former Greenpeace International director Richard Heinberg, journalist and Post Carbon Institute senior fellow Marshall Herskovitz, film producer Dr.
Global rivalries have contributed to the driving forces of the economics behind the low carbon energy transition.
In return they received a share of a £215 million "incentive fund" from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA).
General information In November 2006, citizens of Boulder, Colorado, voted to approve Ballot Issue No.
In September 2019, Transport Scotland announced the goal of having Scottish transport net carbon neutral by the year 2035.
A four-week consumer trial on Personal Carbon Allowances carried out in London in June 2011 reported that "Participants engaged with the personal carbon allowance concept with enthusiasm".
To promote this program, the government placed television and print ads featuring comedian Rick Mercer.
The system is designed to facilitate completion and submission of verified emissions and benchmarking reports, viewing of approved emissions/benchmarking plans for existing operators and submission of emissions plans for new operators.
For ISO 14067, the life cycle stages that need to be studied in the LCA are defined by a variety of system boundaries.
EBEX21 was established to assist landowners to retire or set aside marginally productive land and allow it to regenerate to create new areas of native forest.
In a broad stroke, Renewable Energy Payments, sometimes known as a Feed-in Tariff place obligations on utility companies to buy electricity from renewable energy sources, often small, local companies, for a fixed period of time.
Hydrogen power In 2009, Japan fitted over 100,000 homes with hydrogen powered fuel cells, improving its hydrogen powered infrastructure.
The primary reduction strategy under the Kyoto Protocol is a trading system that essentially makes carbon credits a commodity like oil or gas.
Some of EcoSecurities' current and historic clients include Yahoo!, Fortune Conferences and NetJets Europe.
This enabled the company to develop over 700 CDM projects located in 45 countries and using 50 technologies.
Element Markets, LLC is a limited liability company that provides environmental asset management and compliance services to institutional clients in North America.
Criticism The way that marginal abatement cost curves are usually built has been criticized for lack of transparency and the poor treatment it makes of uncertainty, inter-temporal dynamics, interactions between sectors and ancillary benefits.
In January 2017, an APC grant allowed Ford to begin a 12-month pilot of its Transit Custom Plug-in Hybrid in London, England.
Due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on aviation, the value of 2019 emissions will be used for the pilot phase of the CORSIA implementation from 2021 to 2023.
Entitled Stern Review on the Economics of Climate Change, this 700-page report was released for the British government on October 30, 2006.
Its goal is to improve the least energy-efficient properties and targets homes with an energy rating between D and G.
It has a large portfolio of greenhouse gas emission reduction projects covering numerous countries and technologies.
In states with a Renewable Portfolio Standard, a RECs purchase enables the utility company to meet its minimum renewable electricity percentage without having to install that renewable generating capacity itself, regardless of the source of generating renewable energy.
In 2023, they cautioned that these techniques could pose serious environmental risks, highlighted scientific uncertainty about their effects, urged strict application of assessment frameworks, and called for broader international cooperation.
Related policy and market context ICVCM's CCP benchmark sits alongside public-sector and multilateral efforts to clarify how carbon markets should function, and how "integrity" should be assessed in practice.
Criticism In response to CORSIA, advocacy group Transport and Environment argues that CORSIA won't reduce demand for jet fuel, while Greenpeace called it "a timid step in the right direction".
However, carbon rationing could have a larger effect on poorer households as "people in the low-income groups may have an above-average energy use, because they live in inefficient homes".
Consequently, there is no cap or limit on the volume of emissions permitted in New Zealand provided that emissions units are imported into the country and surrendered.
A meat tax is a tax levied on meat and/or other animal products to help cover the health and environmental costs that result from using animals for food.
Carbon Fund methodological and verification guidance For the Carbon Fund, methodological requirements and accounting approaches are set out in the Carbon Fund Methodological Framework.
Accurate and comprehensive GHG accounting is considered a key element of for Net Zero transition plans, including the use of protocols such as GHG Corporate Standard.
Their work is supported by the Joint Group of Experts on the Scientific Aspects of Marine Environmental Protection of the International Maritime Organization.
Bertram and Terry (2008, p35) concluded that the NZ ETS is not a cap-and-trade scheme as described in the economics literature because it does not place a cap on New Zealand's emissions of greenhouse gases.
As negotiations progressed, UNFCCC titles expanded from a focus on deforestation toward a broader scope that also covered forest degradation and the roles of conservation, sustainable management of forests and enhancement of forest carbon stocks.
BC Environment Minister Terry Lake said, "It makes sense, it's simple, it's well accepted." Rates In April 2019, the carbon tax increased to $40 /t CO2e, which is translated below into different fuel types.
For air pollution mitigation projects, Department of Ecology identified 16 areas which were both overburdened and highly impacted by air pollution.
The perimeters of these blocks remain open to all cars and city buses, while the interior only allows local traffic that must travel under 10 km/h.
The United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) published a special report on Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change Mitigation (SRREN) on May 9, 2011.
The combined green power provided by those six winners equals more than 5 billion kilowatt-hours per year, which is enough to power nearly 465,000 average U.S.
Governance body TSVCM proposed establishing a new governance body to set and maintain integrity benchmarks across voluntary carbon markets and to coordinate how standards and market participants are evaluated against agreed criteria.
CO2balance started out by developing locally based carbon finance initiatives in the UK, such as forestry projects in Bishops Wood and Somercombe Wood in Devon, and Sand Martin Wood in Cumbria.
Considering and addressing the locations of facilities and resources is necessary to fulfil distributive justice.
References External links CEB Website Archived 2009-03-27 at the Wayback Machine VER Registry Archived 2013-04-29 at the Wayback Machine The VER+ Standard profile on database of Market Governance Mechanisms
However, in the fiscal year ending in June 2024, only 15% of appropriations had been spent, potentially due to the threat of I-2117.
The tax revenue the proposal would have generated was estimated to be between $3 and $4.5 billion annually.
electricity customers now have an option to purchase some type of green power product from a retail electricity provider.
The Advanced Propulsion Centre (APC) is a non-profit organisation that facilitates funding to UK-based research and development projects developing net-zero emission technologies.
'Slaughter tax' and 'carcass tax' are terms that are considered to make such a change in food taxation more popular with the general public.
It is a government agent under the charge of Tianjin SASAC and is the only appointed exchange authorized by Tianjin SASAC for state-owned assets and equities transaction.
Grandfathering permits can lead to perverse incentives, such as a firm being given fewer permits in the future for aiming to cut emissions drastically.
The refund represents only a portion of the carbon tax collected, with the rest of the funds collected going towards programs to fight climate change.
TCR designs and operates voluntary and compliance greenhouse gas (GHG) reporting programs globally, and assists organizations in measuring, reporting and verifying the carbon in their operations in order to manage and reduce it.
A diverse group of signatories has signed the declaration, affirming demands for early leadership in efforts from the economies that have benefited the most from fossil fuel extraction.
The plan outlines programs to increase energy efficiency, increase renewable energy use, reduce emissions from motor vehicles, and take other steps toward meeting the goals set in the Kyoto Protocol.
Altogether, sites identified around the UK continental shelf have the capacity to store over 4 billion tonnes (including in the Irish Sea).
If they were to fail easy emission targets, however, they would have to buy expensive extra credits.
History The Citizens' Climate lobby originated in the United States in 2007 after founder Marshall L.
The EPA order affected 2 million 1973 model year cars slated for production, but did not require a recall of cars already on the road.
As the carbon market developed, the company started to explore the possibility of implementing carbon projects in Africa, as a means to channel revenue from carbon finance into the sustainable development of some of the world's poorest communities.
In January 2018, Yasa, an electric motor manufacturer based in Oxford, England, opened a new factory to produce 100,000 motors per year, using APC funding.
In October 2018 the South Korean province of South Chungcheong became the first jurisdiction in Asia and the largest user of coal power to join the Alliance.
See also Air pollution Chlorofluorocarbons Recycling References External links Government of Canada - One-Tonne Challenge Archived 2004-04-03 at the Wayback Machine Yukon News - Conservatives Nix One Tonne Challenge
He pledged to repeal the tax after the 18 clean energy bills passed through the House of Representatives and stated that the next election would be a referendum on the "carbon tax".
For example, in the UK, the city of Manchester claims it is "the first city to undertake to empower all its citizens with carbon literacy." Personal carbon trading has been criticised for its possible complexity and high implementation costs.
McDonnell, Secretary of the Department of Environmental Protection and Chairperson of the Environmental Quality Board, filed a lawsuit in the Commonwealth Court against the Pennsylvania Legislative Reference Bureau (LRB), its director, and the director of the Pennsylvania Code and Bulletin.
A number of computer studies confirm the feasibility of the German electricity system being 100% renewable in 2050.
Following CORSIA's approval, Global Carbon Council has been listed among select international programs qualified to supply carbon credits to international airlines in order to meet their carbon neutral growth targets.
While defeat devices were banned in new vehicles, many millions of existing highly polluting diesel vehicles remained on the roads in the UK and EU as of 2025, and a further 81,000 premature deaths were predicted to occur in later years unless action was taken.
Emission trading Companies using Mootral's feed supplement generate carbon credits that may be used to offset their emissions levels or sold to third parties.
The Forests Now Declaration was a 2007 declaration that advocates using carbon credits to protect tropical forests.
The Malaysian government plans to continue strengthening its green policies and initiatives, focusing on a just transition that ensures equitable opportunities and benefits for all citizens.
Proposals The proposals of this program include: A long-term strategy for global reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
Goods leaving the US for sale in a country without a carbon price would be reimbursed that fee at the border.
The programmes are owned and operated by Toitū Envirocare - Enviro-Mark Solutions Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Landcare Research (100% NZ government-owned).
In December 2019, Verra announced that it had approved Mootral as the world's first methodology to reduce methane emissions from ruminant livestock.
The "starting rate added 4.4 cents to the price of a litre of gas, about four cents to a cubic metre of natural gas".
No further action was taken, as leadership in several of the states switched positions on climate policy.
Incentivize the sustainable use of degraded land and ecosystems, and remove incentives that encourage forest destruction.
The Forests NOW declaration seeks to establish new market based mechanisms to protect the ecosystem services that forests provide in biodiversity conservation, carbon sequestration and global and local hydrological and mineral cycles.
Most proposed strategies to mitigate global climate change focus on reducing the dominant source of GHG emissions to the atmosphere – combustion of fossil fuels, which releases carbon dioxide.
References External links Climate Change and Emissions Management Act Alberta Government, Environment, Climate Change
Proton Exchange Membrane Electrolyzers (PEM): Known for compact design and high responsiveness, PEM systems operate at 50–80 °C and produce high-purity hydrogen.
Alberta-based credits A facility can purchase credits from large emitters that have reduced their emissions intensity beyond their 12 per cent target.
Also, in geographic locations where the Earth's Crust is especially thin, or near volcanoes (as is the case in Iceland) there exists the potential to generate even more electricity than would be possible at other sites, thanks to a more significant temperature gradient at these locales.
Hot air in economics refers to the Assigned Amount Units (AAU) credits given for the reduction of Green House Gas (GHG) emissions among the former Soviet Bloc countries since 1990.
The plan states that "the climate targets can only be reached if coal-fired power generation is reduced step-by-step".
On the 27th October 2023, South Pole cut all ties with the project, confirming that the project had failed to meet standards.
There is also the West African Alliance For Carbon Market constituting Gambia, Burkina-Faso, Benin, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Mauritania, Liberia, Sierra Leone, Niger, Senegal, Ivory Coast, Togo, and Cape Verde.
The following schematic illustrates the process of capturing and recycling the gas emissions: As illustrated above, (1) wells installed in the landfill collect the methane (CH4).
In this context, governments and international institutions published frameworks that emphasised clearer rules and due diligence for market actors, and explored how voluntary activity could interact with wider carbon-market architecture and climate policy goals.
Although electricity is the most common green energy, biomethane is sold as "green gas" in some locations.
United States approach to emission reduction credits The United States (which did not ratify the Kyoto Protocol) has the most experience with domestic emissions trading markets.
As noted by Professor Ross Garnaut in his "Review" for the Australian Government, the rate of convergence serves as a crucial equity mechanism in the negotiations.
It will promote the establishment of national seed banks, while focusing on the tropics and biodiversity hotspots.
(but) sometimes if you feel that something is totally unacceptable you have to react despite business, despite interests.
I have been victimized by these lies." On June 4, 2009, Obama delivered a speech at Cairo University titled "A New Beginning".
In addressing real-life situations, Francis often appealed directly to his experience, in continuity with his synodal way, which shows a renewed emphasis on listening and dialogue.
Tosaphists The Tosaphist Rabbeinu Tam wrote that Peter was "a devout and learned Jew who dedicated his life to guiding gentiles along the proper path".
While in Washington, DC, he attended Vermont Avenue Christian Church, which is now National City Christian Church.
There are certain areas of feeling and reality—or unreality or innermost yearning, whatever you want to call it—which are notably inaccessible to words.
Strangelove suggested "the earth were being cleansed of an infection", to which Kubrick responded: Good God, no.
A number of critics draw the parallel between religious beliefs and Freud's theories, that neither can be scientifically proven, but only experienced subjectively.
The emperor became a great patron of the Church and set a precedent for the position of the Christian emperor within the Church and raised the notions of orthodoxy, Christendom, ecumenical councils, and the state church of the Roman Empire declared by edict in 380.
By term Affiliation totals See also Religious affiliations of presidents of the United States Religious affiliation in the United States House of Representatives Religious affiliation in the United States Senate Footnotes References Adherents.com Religious Affiliation of U.S.
In 1985, minister Donald Wildmon called her "anti-Christian" and "antifamily" for wearing crucifixes as jewelry.
On Easter Day 2026 (April 5), Trump sparked significant controversy by using the phrase "Praise be to Allah" in his expletive-laden post threatening Iran, which was interpreted by critics as mocking Islam or weaponizing religious language during conflicts.
Dawkins's contribution was as follows: Stop toadying to Muslims and other "faith communities" as part of a general abolition of all religious privilege.
Hence, he argued that the reformers "had to leave them in order that we might come to Christ." The ministers of the Church are described from a passage from Ephesians, and they consisted of apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and doctors.
Reflecting on the deep meaning of the Communion bread, he draws on Paul's epistles that point to oneness as Christ's body, where all suffer together and are honored together (1 Cor 12:26).
Others, sometimes termed Judaizers, felt that Gentile Christians needed to fully comply with the Mosaic Law.
According to Sherrill, in the interview he denied being an agnostic and stated that he believed there is only one Creator.
Following his return to Twitter in April 2018, West tweeted "I love the way Candace Owens thinks." The tweet was met with controversy among some of West's fans.
At that conference, Gera spoke on "The Meaning of the Christian Message in the Midst of Poverty and Oppression".
I find it very exciting to have a semi-logical belief that there's a great deal to the universe we don't understand, and that there is an intelligence of an incredible magnitude outside the Earth.
There have been no Adventist, Anabaptist, Eastern Orthodox, Assyrian Church of the East, Oriental Orthodox, Lutheran, Latter Day Saint, or Pentecostal presidents.
Hitler promised that the institutions of the Weimar Republic and churches would be protected, and said his government saw the churches as "the most important factors for upholding our nationhood".
Burke's view that religion is the source of morality led him to view its absence as a perilous possibility.
Farrakhan continued advocating the "racial separatism" of Elijah Muhammad, and reportedly considered Wallace "a soft minded heretic." Ali decided to follow the teachings of Wallace Muhammad.
However, these views are not standard Calvinistic interpretations, but his views on what happens after the resurrection are orthodox Calvinistic doctrine: Christ, during the resurrection, would raise man up higher than the state he was in before the fall.
The only way to deal with false prophets was to deal with the Turkish people's illiteracy and prejudice.
Christian religion and ethics are the primary topic of the sermons with emphasis on marriage, repentance, hardening the heart, charity, pride, wisdom, and compassion.
Gera had also been a teacher of Bergoglio who, as Archbishop of Buenos Aires, showed his esteem for Gera by allowing him to be buried in the crypt of the cathedral.
All that's left is to prove that in nature there is no frontier between the organic and the inorganic." Atheism The National Socialist movement was not formally atheist, and generally allowed religious observance.
"Left" refers to the Historical Left (referred to also as Democrats) of Agostino Depretis and Francesco Crispi.
Notes References Bate, Walter Jackson (1977), Samuel Johnson, New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, ISBN 0-15-179260-7.
In Christian theology, this concept is often referred to as The Second Coming of Jesus Christ and the establishment of Paradise by The Kingdom of God on Earth.
In particular, it was debated as to whether Gentile converts needed to be circumcised or observe the Judean dietary laws.
The utterance caused outrage, shock, and disdain from Jewish leaders and citizens in the United States.
The honeymoon, an Anatolian tour, was a chance to show his wife's unveiled face as a role model for modern Turkish women.
He sharply condemned the confiscation of Church property by the revolutionaries and claimed that their nonreligious views were "against, not only our reason, but our instincts".
Rather, the Finnish School asserts that Luther's doctrine of salvation was similar to that of Eastern Orthodoxy, theosis (divinization).
Nevertheless, his critics often wished that he would embrace what has been called a progressive agenda that some hoped would evolve as a result of the council.
Encouraged by Rome, Catholic lay people began to participate again in pilgrimages, spiritual retreats, baptisms and confessions and Catholic associations of all kinds.
Martin Luther, where both he and his followers wanted to liken him and his role to that of the European reformer.
Religious Freedom and Tolerance Jefferson envisioned an America that would be tolerant of people of various religious backgrounds, and that civil rights should not be limited by one's religious beliefs.
His formal conversion in 312 is almost universally acknowledged among historians, despite that it was claimed he was baptized only on his deathbed by the Arian bishop Eusebius of Nicomedia in 337; the real reasons behind it remain unknown and are debated also.
Though the phenomenon goes beyond Madonna, she received solid reviews discussing her religious forays with an ambiguous impact in popular culture across decades.
In this way we may rest assured that we shall never arrive at conclusions opposed to any truth, either physical or moral, from whatever source that truth may be derived." For these men, science could not be out of harmony with religion, and in a sense it was religion.
The various editions of that work span nearly his entire career as a reformer, and the successive revisions of the book show that his theology changed very little from his youth to his death.
Fortescue, also writing in the Catholic Encyclopedia, claimed that "the real distinction between God's essence and operation remains one more principle, though it is rarely insisted on now, in which the Orthodox differ from Catholics".
Rabbeinu Tam also taught that Peter was the author of the Shabbat and feast-day prayer Nishmat, and this was a popularly held belief through the Middle Ages.
State banks were more responsive to state governments and invested heavily in land development, land speculation, and state public works projects.
The great number of vocations led Pius to issue several admonitions to Bishops, to weed out candidates with moral weaknesses.
Gianotti, who was at Ali's bedside during his last days and ensured that his funeral was in accordance with Islamic rites and rituals.
A series of letters ensued between the two but they were unable to resolve their differences amicably.
Yet it is also very important to note that religion is a link between Allah and the individual believer.
Current United States representatives The following list reports the religious affiliation of the members of the United States House of Representatives in the 119th Congress.
He accepted only two sacraments as valid under the new covenant: baptism and the Lord's Supper (in opposition to the Catholic acceptance of seven sacraments).
Life Catholic upbringing Mozart's parents (Leopold Mozart and Anna Maria Mozart) were Catholics and raised their children religiously, insisting upon strict obedience to the requirements of the Church.
Atatürk's funeral called forth both sorrow and pride in Turkey, and seventeen countries sent special representatives, while nine contributed with armed detachments to the cortège.
They furnish the basis of the struggle for daily bread, create weapons and implements for it, and only the outward form is gradually adapted to Japanese character.
Leopold extended another important element of Catholic belief—the existence of earthly miracles as signs from God—to the case of his son, whose abilities he considered to have a divine origin.
He embraced the Hare Krishna tradition and, in the summer of 1969, produced the single "Hare Krishna Mantra", performed by the devotees of the London Radha Krishna Temple.
intervention early on, being happy that the Afghans were getting aid from all over the world to battle the Soviets, his view of the U.S.
(the prophet said about the woman who committed adultery: "She repented in such a way sufficient to bring forgiveness to a custom collector!!").
In addition to maintaining that the strikes were not directed against women and children and asserting that the primary targets of the 9/11 attacks were the symbols of American "economic and military power", Bin Laden stated: "This is a significant issue in Islamic jurisprudence.
The book was based on a series of lectures given by Thomas in 1848 and consists of three parts, The Rudiments Of The World, The Things Of The Kingdom Of God And Of Jesus Christ and The Kingdoms Of The World In Their Relation To The Kingdom Of God.
Opinion polls of American Jews have found that a slight majority regard Trump as antisemitic and a large majority disapprove of his antisemitism policies.
According to Jonathan Sozek:"Salafism can be understood as an umbrella term under which a movement like Wahhabism might be placed.
These authors are more forceful in their claims than Eusebius, as demonstrated by their use of primus, or "first", as in "first Christian emperor", when referring to Philip.
In opposition to this teaching, Barlaam held that they were created effects, because no part of God whatsoever could be directly perceived by humans.
There was also strong opposition which developed on several fronts within the Church, some considering Thomism simply outdated.
Dawkins and Sokal argued that sex is an "objective biological reality" that "is determined at conception and is then observed at birth," rather than assigned by a medical professional.
"Newton's Arian Epistemology and the Cosmogony of Paradise Lost." ELH: English Literary History 86.1 (2019): 77-106 online.
troops in Saudi Arabia; bin Laden loathed their presence and wanted them removed in a "rain of bullets".
Unitarianism and nontrinitarianism Four presidents were affiliated with Unitarian churches and a fifth (Thomas Jefferson) was an exponent of ideas now commonly associated with Unitarianism.
During his second administration, on January 29, 2025, Trump signed Executive Order 14188, "Additional Measures to Combat Anti-Semitism", which focuses on antisemitism in educational settings, especially in higher education.
The Down's Syndrome Association issued a response by saying that "At the Down's syndrome Association, we do not believe Down's syndrome in itself should be a reason for termination, however, we realize that families must make their own choice." Dawkins later apologized.
In Ottoman military ranks, Pasha was a common title given to all ranks at and above Mirliva, and he was from then on addressed as "Mustafa Kemal Pasha" (Turkish: Paşa).
You have good genes in Minnesota." Many cited these remarks as eugenic and related them to Nazism during World War II.
However, Catholicism is the denomination that has provided the most prime ministers, as all 11 Catholic prime ministers have been Roman Rite Catholics, while the Protestant ones have belonged to no less than five denominations.
For Calvin, the whole course of Christ's obedience to the Father removed the discord between humanity and God.
Thomism had lost its old role as leading theology and Leo attempted to re-establish it "for the protection of faith, welfare of society and the advancement of science".
That this was no mere rhetorical flourish on his part, designed for public consumption, is apparent from his constant allusions to Providence in his personal letters.
The Edict of Milan did, however, raise the stock of Christianity within the empire and reaffirmed the importance of religious worship to the welfare of the state.
Rabbi Yisrael (Israel) Deri, caretaker of Isaac Luria's tomb (founder of Kabbalah), commented "this kind of woman wreaks an enormous sin upon the Kabbalah".
Spirituality John Paul II spoke often about prayer and devotion to God, such devotion deeply rooted in the Mystery of the Blessed Trinity.
The Qur'an also criticized the Jews for believing that Ezra is the Son of God, a claim unattested either in Jewish or other extra-Qur'anic sources.
The dispute over Hesychasm came before a synod held at Constantinople in May 1341 and presided over by the emperor Andronicus III.
Madonna's religious views, and others interpretations Besides her spiritual seeking, Madonna has made several statements about religion, and specific denominations.
Your blood has been spilt in Palestine and Iraq, and the horrific image of the massacre in Qana in Lebanon are still fresh in people's minds.
Those conferences which have been experiencing tension with the Vatican over revised translations, like the French-speaking and German-speaking, now have much more breathing room in deciding what is best for translating liturgical texts.
Historically, Western Christianity has tended to reject the essence–energies distinction, characterizing it as a heretical introduction of an unacceptable division in the Trinity and suggestive of polytheism.
The reason was books were too removed from actual reality as these were written by people, interpreted by others, rewritten by people, obscured by others, etc.
The controversy started at an atheist convention in Dublin, where Rebecca Watson spoke about feminism and the atheist movement.
The emperor ensured that God was properly worshiped in his empire; what proper worship (orthodoxy) and doctrines and dogma consisted of was for the Church to determine.
According to Italian law enforcement, by the time of the habemus papam announcement, there were up to 150,000 in the square.
Satan, in order to get revenge against God, tempts Eve into eating of the forbidden fruit of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil, and Adam, out of love, joins with her in the disobedience so she will not be blamed alone.
Elpis Israel - An Exposition of the Kingdom of God (commonly called Elpis Israel) is a theological book written by John Thomas, founder of the Christadelphians, and published in 1849.
He often cited the Church Fathers in order to defend the reformed cause against the charge that the reformers were creating new theology.
Palamas expressed theoria as an experience of God as it happens to the whole person (soul or nous), not just the mind or body, in contrast to an experience of God that is drawn from memory, the mind, or in time.
Thus his relationship in public to Christianity – indeed his relationship to religion in general – was opportunistic.
The second edition, published in 1539, was three times as long because he added chapters on subjects that appear in Melanchthon's Loci Communes.
Last rites There is conflicting evidence concerning whether Mozart received last rites of the Catholic Church on his death bed.
In 1551 Jérôme-Hermès Bolsec, a physician in Geneva, attacked Calvin's doctrine of predestination and accused him of making God the author of sin.
Trump's comments echoed previous comments he made during his presidency by accusing Jews who vote for Democrats as "disloyal".
I was struck at how frequently in his letters he's referring to Providence, and it's Providence where there's a sense of design and purpose, which sounds to me very much like religion...
The topic is also of interest to religious groups.The general public who may appeal to senators of their denomination on religious or moral issues facing the United States Senate.
if a form of abuse was considered no big deal to most people in a society, the people directly victimized would also feel that way." In January 2016, Dawkins tweeted a link to a cartoon caricature of feminists and Islamists.
In his Autobiographical Notes, Einstein wrote that he had gradually lost his faith early in childhood: ...
It has also been prescribed by the legists when needed, and there is no doubt that the brothers are in a state of extreme need.
By 1800, most Congregationalist churches in Boston had Unitarian preachers teaching the strict unity of God, the subordinate nature of Christ, and salvation by character.
Tuomo Mannermaa at the University of Helsinki led "The New Finnish Interpretation of Luther" that presents Luther's views on salvation in terms much closer to the Eastern Orthodox doctrine of theosis rather than established interpretations of German Luther scholarship.
The great founder of Protestantism was both a passionate anti-Semite and a ferocious believer in absolute obedience to political authority.
Some authors discussed her impact with the usage of crucifixes as a fashion item in her early career; in 1991, Christian writer Graham Cray said "she has made the crucifix a fashion icon".
She did not live to see her husband become president, dying of a stroke or heart attack a few days later.
The article was criticised by the Jewish Chronicle at the time, calling it "the most reckless and scandalous campaign in which even the most discredited politicians have ever engaged".
He did not content himself with the teachings he grew up with as a student of Catholic institutions.
Ibn Taymiyya condemned many aspects of the evolving jurisprudential sciences as "educated conjectures"; particularly the impact of Kalam theology on 'ilm al-Ikhtilaf (science of scholarly differences) as well as on Usul al-Fiqh (principles of jurisprudence).
Leadership reactions Madonna has received criticism from religious organizations and leaders of different denominations, over the best part of her career.
It states that the sum of human wisdom consists of two parts: the knowledge of God and of ourselves.
Apostle to the Jews Paul the Apostle writes that Peter had the special charge of being an apostle to the Jews, just as he was the apostle to the Gentiles.
Freedman, a Jewish psychiatrist and researcher, wrote for Aish.com that the meeting was a meaningful first step and encouraged West to "publicly state what steps he plans on taking to ensure that he will not repeat his mistakes...
Such folk are not National Socialists, but something else – in any case, something which has nothing to do with us.
In March 2023, he signed an open letter calling for a pause on large-scale AI experiments, citing profound risks for society.
Rizal believed that if one was to "understand" God, he was going to do well to note that books which others claimed were tools of revelation were not reliable.
Bill Clinton – Baptist Clinton, during his presidency, attended a Methodist church in Washington along with his wife Hillary Clinton, who is Methodist from childhood.
When they did not, he turned violently against them." Gordon Rupp gives this evaluation of On the Jews and Their Lies: "I confess that I am ashamed as I am ashamed of some letters of St.
This vision was perhaps in a dream experienced by the emperor while practising incubation at the shrine of Apollo Grannus in Grand, Vosges.
However, this verse is only referring to the greatest of sinners, as clarified in the following verse.
In 2010, Starr said he had recently returned to monotheism, while McCartney, in 2012, said he has a "personal faith in something good, but it doesn't really go much further than that".
The religious views of the English rock band the Beatles evolved over time and differed among members John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison, and Ringo Starr.
He admired the religious work of Joseph Priestley (an English chemist and theologian who moved to America).
It is not necessary to use only the most deadly gasses: gasses can be used which cause great inconvenience and would spread a lively terror and yet would leave no serious permanent effects on most of those affected.
All this has happened before the eyes and ears of the world, but the blatant imperial arrogance of America, under the cover of the immoral United Nations, has prevented the dispossessed from arming themselves.
Lowman, though an earlier commentator, is (we believe) far more generally followed; and he commences the 1260 years from about 756, when, by aid of Pepin, King of France, the Pope obtained considerable temporalities.
Trump later stated that he had not known of Fuentes's beliefs; however, in discussing the dinner, Trump did not condemn his guests' antisemitism.
They are the gracious gifts of the Most High God, who, while dealing with us in anger for our sins, hath nevertheless remembered mercy.
It was also not my intent to ally in any way with Republican bigots in US now exploiting this issue." Dawkins endorsed and recommended The End of Gender: Debunking the Myths about Sex and Identity, a book by Debra Soh which puts forth gender-critical views.
Long day but can't stop." Trump quoted and responded to that tweet of Sharpton's, declaring: "I have known Al for 25 years.
In the 1840s, abolitionist newspapers printed interviews with and testimony of Oney Judge, a slave who escaped from the Washingtons in 1796.
Hermann Müller, a Social Democrat heavily influenced by his father, an advocate of Ludwig Feuerbach's views, is the only one notable for not having been a member of any confession at all.
Although the band later fell out with the Maharishi, Harrison continued his interest in Eastern philosophy.
President Trump has also been an outspoken critic of pro-Palestinian and anti-Israel sentiment in the United States, including on college campuses, which he characterizes as antisemitic, and has signed two executive orders to counter antisemitism and anti-Zionism.
But we know that the victims of sexual abuse suffer the same effects whether it was 50 years ago or today." Views on religion Dawkins is a noted critic of religion, atheist, anti-theist, anti-religionist and a secular humanist.
Following the 1800 campaign, Jefferson became more reluctant to have his religious opinions discussed in public.
But before Calvin expounded on this doctrine, he described the special situation of the Jews who lived during the time of the Old Testament.
Towards the end of his life, he also embraced alternative views of Christianity; according to his friend Deepak Chopra, Harrison was a keen reader of the Gnostic gospels and the Gospel of Thomas.
The following year, conservative blogger Mark Finkelstein in fact labeled Obama, along with Al Gore, and New York Times columnist Gail Collins as Pandeists, in a piece titled "Happy Pan-Deism Day From Gail Collins".
Church construction According to Socrates Scholasticus, Constantine commissioned the construction of the first Church of Hagia Irene in Constantinople, on the site now occupied by the Justinian church of the same name.
The book was widely derided by reviewers as "ridiculous", "mind-bending", and "Christian homeopathy".
Young Mustafa studied at Salonica Military School, the military junior high school in Salonica (now Thessaloniki in modern Greece), where his mathematics teacher Captain Üsküplü Mustafa Sabri Bey gave him the additional name "Kemal" ("perfection") because of his student's academic excellence.
Politics In his memoir of Kubrick, Michael Herr, his friend and co-writer of the screenplay for Full Metal Jacket (1987), wrote: Stanley had views on everything, but I would not exactly call them political...
In an 1825 letter to Waterhouse, Jefferson wrote, I am anxious to see the doctrine of one god commenced in our state.
In Strangelove, I was dealing with the inherent irrationality in man that threatens to destroy him; that irrationality is with us as strongly today, and must be conquered.
As some chancellors' views are uncertain or cause confusion among researchers, their official affiliation to a church is mentioned.
While some conservative, Catholic politicians in Poland opposed EU membership, John Paul II said: "I know that there are many in opposition to integration.
In 1586 the crown named Frith, who maintained the appearance of Protestantism, as a Catholic priest.
Rizal argued that his God was not like the God of the Catholics, as his God was far above such things.
A number of Islamists have asserted that bin Laden has no direct connections with Wahhabism, although he may have been inspired by the movement of Muhammad ibn 'Abd al- Wahhab and its ideals.
This tax continued during his reign and some historians credit the emperor Julian with abolishing this in 362.
In it, he argued that Jews misread their own scriptures because they miss the unity of the Old and New Testaments.
India Bin Laden considered India to be a part of the 'Crusader-Zionist-Hindu' conspiracy against the Islamic world.
However, the officials did not offer comments or evidence as to whether Bin Laden and his associates living inside the complex themselves had obtained the files or observed its contents.
Although all four Beatles were associated with either Protestantism or Roman Catholicism in their childhood, they had all abandoned their religious upbringings by 1964.
To ensure notability, only leading politicians (ministers, deputies, senators, MEPs, regional councillors, mayors of big cities, party leaders, etc.) are included in the list.
The comments generated controversy, with Peter Watt, the director of child protection at the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, responded by saying that "Mr.
Further, the practices used by the later hesychasts to achieve theosis were characterized as "magic" by the Western Christians.
William Eleazar Barton quotes this version in The Soul of Abraham Lincoln (1920), but further writes: This incident must have appeared in print immediately after Lincoln's death, for I find it quoted in memorial addresses of May, 1865.
It is possible to translate a name from Turkish to other languages, but care should be given as names' form varies from one language to another.
Some commonplace Christian allusions, involving no physical manifestation of religion, in Quarto editions of the history cycle, were replaced with harmless references to pagan gods when the First Folio appeared.
The pious Jew prayed daily the words of the Book of Deuteronomy which expressed the heart of his existence: "Hear, O Israel: the Lord our God is one Lord, and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul and with all your might" (6:4–5).
Kubrick's more mature works are more pessimistic and suspicious of the so-called innate goodness of mankind, and are critical of stances based on that positive assessment.
In August 1932, while in Munich, Churchill was snubbed for a meeting by Adolf Hitler when the two happened to be sharing the same hotel.
Of this preference, a bishop with experience working in the Vatican noted the general feeling that, while formerly being treated like branch managers, "We're treated now as brothers".
Watt also states that many of the Jews had close links with Abd-Allah ibn Ubayy, "the potential prince of Medina" who "is said that but for the arrival of Muhammad, had not become" the chief arbitrator of the community.
Lennon had, in fact, originally made the remark to the British newspaper London Evening Standard and when it was first published in the United Kingdom, in March 1966, his words had provoked no public reaction.
He was also required to take a vow of celibacy and recognize the Thirty-Nine Articles of the Church of England.
The ban, however, "was published and came into force only in the Papal States, Spain, Portugal, and Poland." It was not promulgated in Austria, where Mozart lived, until 1792 (after Mozart's death).
despite all this, the Americans are once against trying to repeat the horrific massacres, as though they are not content with the protracted blockade imposed after the ferocious war or the fragmentation and devastation.
Although there were some religious sceptic chancellors, most never officially renounced their faith and were given a Christian funeral.
On January 6, 2004, the Consultative Panel on Lutheran-Jewish Relations of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America issued a statement urging any Lutheran church presenting a Passion Play to adhere to their Guidelines for Lutheran-Jewish Relations, stating that "the New Testament .
During the late-twentieth century, the Catholic Church opposed to her Italian show of the Who's That Girl Tour in 1987, her advertisement with Pepsi in 1989, the Blond Ambition Tour in 1990 or for her first book Sex, in 1992.
University, seminary, and early priesthood (1973–1998) University In 1973, Prevost was planning to attend Tolentine College, an Augustinian seminary in Olympia Fields, Illinois, but it closed that same year.
Among his extant writings, Calvin only dealt explicitly with issues of contemporary Jews and Judaism in one treatise, Response to Questions and Objections of a Certain Jew.
Some Western theologians have incorporated the essence–energies distinction into their own thinking.
This list reports the religious affiliation of the members of the United States Senate in the 119th United States Congress.
Specifically, Francis returned to the Vatican II theme of ressourcement, looking back beyond the Catholic philosophical tradition that had originated with Thomas Aquinas seven centuries before and looking toward original sources in the New Testament.
The band was threatened, their records were publicly burned, and some radio stations refused to play their songs.
I believe neither way is right.One changing view about Atatürk is his foresightedness, foster and promotion of the leadership among Turkish revolutionaries.
Francis has not continued the attacks on secularism that were common during Pope Benedict XVI's papacy (2005–2013).
Pierre Caroli, a Protestant minister in Lausanne accused Calvin, as well as Viret and Farel, of Arianism in 1536.
To Benedict, this does not mean for one moment that they lived only for the future: present society is recognized by Christians as an exile; they belong to a new society which is the goal of their common pilgrimage and which is anticipated in the course of that pilgrimage.
The Christian Democratic Union, a party of both Catholics and Protestants, produced both kinds of chancellors.
Jonathan Greenblatt of the Anti-Defamation League called Trump's comments "defamatory and patently false".
On is report cards, there is literally written "German or Russian", but according to his contemporaries, Atatürk chose German.
Know that whatever conforms to reason, logic, and the advantages and needs of our people conforms equally to Islam.
Since Eusebius read these letters, and does not mention that the emperor was Christian (Neumann understands the passage at 6.34 to reflect Eusebius's disbelief in Philip's Christianity), we must conclude that Philip was not Christian, and was neither baptized nor made catechumen.
In 1301, Ibn Taymiyya had accompanied the Mamluk army in its campaigns against the Shia inhabitants of Kasrawan town.
The long tome that was prepared for the synod concludes with a decree canonizing Palamas who had died in 1359.
One wants to break out of the clearly arguable, demonstrable things which really are not very meaningful, or very useful or inspiring, nor does one even sense any enormous truth in them.
Conversely, the thought of having to face a dreaded "Black Muslim" must have been at the very least a slightly daunting proposition for many of Ali's opponents, especially the ones he christened "Uncle Toms." Notes == References ==
Rizal was not convinced that a sufficient understanding of God that was as powerful and metaphysical as the Supreme Being could be contained in the consciousness of mere mortals who have no capacity to understand beyond what was in the words of philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche, "divined" to them.
In 2023, she reflected her work as an "artist united people, gave them freedom of expression, unity.
In June 2018, Trump granted her clemency a week after meeting with Kim Kardashian, who was lobbying for her release.
If one then, through willful submission to God, is devotional and becomes humble, akin to the Theotokos and the saints, and proceeds in faith past the point of rational contemplation, one can experience God.
bin Laden believes Islam is being attacked by America and its allies and is simply recognizing his responsibility to fight in a defensive jihad.
In 1556 Justus Velsius, a Dutch dissident, held a public disputation with Calvin during his visit to Frankfurt, in which Velsius defended free will against Calvin's doctrine of predestination.
They may have progressed from biological species, which are fragile shells for the mind at best, into immortal machine entities—and then, over innumerable eons, they could emerge from the chrysalis of matter transformed into beings of pure energy and spirit.
He knew perfectly well that this is not a problem between Cubans; it’s a problem between the people of Cuba and the government of the United States.
The end of the timeline is based on Daniel 8:25, which reads "he shall be broken without hand" and is understood to mean that the end of the Papacy will not be caused by any human action.
Similarly, film analyst Glenn Perusek thinks Kubrick's earlier Paths of Glory reflects a Rousseauist vision of man with natural human sympathy crushed by the artifice of society; later Kubrick films abandon that perspective.
The names of his children were Zehra Aylin, Sabiha (Gökçen), Rukiye (Erkin), Afet (İnan), Nebile (Bayyurt), Afife, Fikriye, Ülkü (Doğançay, later Adatepe), and Mustafa.
This policy culminated in the Décret du 17 mars 1808—known as the "Décret Infâme"—which temporarily restricted Jewish lending in several eastern departments while maintaining full civil equality.
do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America,' meant just what it said without reference to color or condition, ad infinitum." See also Mormonism and slavery Racial segregation of churches in the US Proslavery == References ==
Bush – Methodist Bush was raised in the Episcopal Church but converted to Methodism upon his marriage in 1977.
We can no longer argue that, for instance, the beautiful hinge of a bivalve shell must have been made by an intelligent being, like the hinge of a door by man.
A series of anathemas were pronounced against Barlaam, Akindynos and their followers; at the same time, a series of acclamations were also declared in favor of Gregory Palamas and the adherents of his doctrine.
When asked in Eric Nordern's Playboy interview if 2001: A Space Odyssey was a religious film, Kubrick elaborated: I will say that the God concept is at the heart of 2001 but not any traditional, anthropomorphic image of God.
Since the identity of Lebanese population is divided by religion and sects, an unwritten understanding between them resulted in Christians taking the position since its establishment.
Otzar Hatefillah, quoting Mahzor Vitri, pointedly denies this claim, offering instead Simeon ben Shetach as the probable author.
Before the Revolution, parishes were units of local government, and Jefferson served as a vestryman, a lay administrative position in his local parish.
Throughout the conflict, he appealed to the international community to stop the war, and after it was over led diplomatic initiatives to negotiate peace in the Middle East.
There was close correspondence between Darwin and his American collaborator Asa Gray, a devout Presbyterian who discussed with him the relationship of natural selection to natural theology and published several reviews arguing in detail that they were fully compatible.
In a similar connotation, Gardner also wrote that "she has appeared as a modern incarnation of an ancient icon", comparing her to ancient mythical goddesses like Aphrodite.
The executive order has been used in attempts to deport holders of student visas and green cards who have expressed pro-Palestinian views, and in investigations into 60 colleges and universities based on their alleged failures to protect students from "antisemitic harassment and discrimination".
The two brothers had continued to argue forcefully against Palamism even when brought before the patriarch and enjoined to adhere to the orthodox doctrine.
Two years later in 1968, all four Beatles travelled to Rishikesh in northern India to study meditation with the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi.
In Birobidzhan, the various Jewish cultural institutions that had been established under Stalin's earlier policy of support for "proletarian Jewish culture" in the 1930s were closed between late 1948 and early 1949.
Three hours after posting it, Trump deleted the tweet without further comment, although White House Deputy Press Secretary Judd Deere and White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany claimed that Trump had not heard the "white power" statement in the tweet.
After the Beatles' 1966 US tour, Harrison broadened his interest in Indian culture to include Hinduism.
The Beatles years According to the band's press officer, Derek Taylor, all four Beatles had abandoned their religious upbringings by 1964.
The senior spiritual leader of the Orthodox Christian faith arrived in Cuba in 2004, the first time any Orthodox patriarch has visited Latin America in the Church's history.
Others have referred to her as the "high priestess of pop", and journalists like Julián Ruiz from El Mundo called her as "Our Lady".
The religious affiliation in the United States Senate reflects the variety of religion in the United States, despite not being in line with the religious affiliation of the general population.
Although the scriptures do not mention Ham's skin color, some doctrines associated the curse with Black people and used it to justify slavery.
He abruptly temporarily halted (for 90 days) immigration from six other Muslim-majority nations: Iraq, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen.
His 1971 single "Imagine" suggests that religious belief can be divisive and that an obsessive concern with heaven can prevent us from living fully in the moment.
Some surmise Shakespeare married in Temple Grafton rather than the Anglican church in Stratford in order for his wedding to be performed as a Catholic sacrament.
In doing this, however, Constantine required those who had not converted to Christianity to pay for the new city.
The later followers of Jerome, however, like Orosius and Bede, mention Philip's games approvingly—Orosius even claims that Philip did not sacrifice during the games.
takes precedence, ontologically and temporally, over the individual local churches." Accordingly, too, he was often seen as a key player in the centralization of the hierarchy under John Paul II.
In 1872, Colonel Ward Hill Lamon published his Life of Abraham Lincoln; From his Birth to his Inauguration as President using interviews and correspondences collected by William Herndon, Lincoln's law partner in Springfield.
And any attempt to create social institutions on a false view of the nature of man is probably doomed to failure.
In his diary entry for May 17, 1890, he states: "Writing a few words for Mohonk Negro Conference, I find myself using the word Christian.
I may, however, have been unduly biased by the pain which it would give some members of my family, if I aided in any way direct attacks on religion." Aveling and Büchner In Germany militant Darwinismus elevated Darwin to heroic status.
On January 3, 1954, Einstein replied to Gutkind: "The word God is for me nothing more than the expression and product of human weaknesses, the Bible a collection of honourable, but still primitive legends which are nevertheless pretty childish.
It is largely dominated by Catholics and Protestants as these remain the main confessions in the country.
Regarding his interpretation of the Doctrine of the Catholic Church, Francis stated that he considers himself to be conservative.
The following month, West stated that one of his priorities would be to end police brutality, adding that "[the] police are people too".
Einstein maintained that people validly use certain ideas and values, such as intuition or religious faith, which cannot be proven with direct observation or logic.
There is no natural category that includes chimpanzees, gorillas and orangutans but excludes humans.
Indeed, the empire itself was rapidly disintegrating, starting with India gaining independence in 1947, and finishing up with all the African colonies becoming independent in the 1950s.
On the other hand, he also reformed the system of Church discipline, getting rid of some indulgences, causes for excommunication, suspensions of clergy and other disciplinary measures.
The comment went unnoticed until, in August of the same year, the American magazine Datebook republished it, inciting protests against the Beatles.
Stephen King recalled Kubrick calling him late at night while he was filming The Shining and Kubrick asked him, "Do you believe in God?" King said that he had answered in the affirmative, but has had three different versions of what happened next.
But why pay union dues & give up stock options for nothing?" while the United Auto Workers (UAW) union was campaigning at Tesla, in the Fremont Factory in California.
Subsequent editions were published by the Christadelphian Magazine & Publishing Association, the latest being the 15th edition (2000).
Dawkins also commented on the short film Fitna produced by Geert Wilders, a film that argues that Islam promotes violence among its followers.
Later such a person gets more insight into the perils of life and he rightly concludes that fundamentally he still remains just as helpless as he was in his childhood.
See also List of prime ministers of Canada by religious affiliation Religious affiliations of presidents of Lebanon Religious affiliations of prime ministers of the Netherlands Religious affiliations of presidents of the United States == References ==
During a visit by his mother in 326 to 327, she identified places where key events may have taken place in Jesus’ life; Constantine went on build churches at those locations.
He also supported projects in favor of Venezuelan refugees and encouraged vocations in youth groups, giving strong support to the seminary.
A small step, in the midst of great human limitations, can be more pleasing to God than a life which appears outwardly in order but moves through the day without confronting great difficulties.
He decisively acted on the century-old struggle between Dominicans and Franciscans regarding the Immaculate Conception of Mary, deciding in favour of the latter ones.
Dawkins gave a speech at the 2012 Jaipur Literature Festival where a video link with Salman Rushdie was cancelled due to ongoing controversy over the Rushdie affair.
Although several significant exceptions leave the issue open to question, in the popular mind (and traditional historiography), the supporters of "Palamism" and of "Kantakouzenism" are usually equated.
External links Adherents.com's list Abraham Lincoln was a Deist Six Historic Americans by John Remsburg, 1906, examines religious views of Paine, Jefferson, Washington, Franklin, Lincoln, and Grant U.S.
McGregor, himself, considered dedicating a few words to Madonna because she is "a significant and representative child of her times".
In November 2019, emails promoting white supremacist views sent by senior White House advisor Stephen Miller were made public.
According to my information, if the enemy occupies an Islamic land and uses its people as human shields, a person has the right to attack the enemy.
Politics and elections Musk has been described as being closely associated with techno-libertarians, ideologically a libertarian authoritarian, and has more recently been described as far-right in regards to European politics.
Both authors (Koestler through psychology and Ardrey through anthropology and evolutionary theory) searched for the cause of humanity's capacity for death and destruction, and both, like Kubrick, were suspicious of the liberal belief in the innate goodness of mankind.
Some scholars allege that his main objective was to gain unanimous approval and submission to his authority from all classes, and therefore he chose Christianity to conduct his political propaganda, believing that it was the most appropriate religion that could fit with the imperial cult.
poured out on all nations." He said, "it shall come to pass, after many days, slaves shall rise up against their masters, who shall be marshaled and disciplined for war." It was another two decades until the church formally disclosed the document to the general public.
The Beatles' records were publicly burned, threats were made and some radio stations refused to play their music.
Implementation in her works Religion has influenced Madonna's artistic path; she frequently incorporates religious iconography and themes of different denominations into her visuals and works.
A significant portion of Protestant chancellors belonged to the Prussian Union of Churches, which united the Reformed and Lutheran confessions throughout the Kingdom of Prussia and was in force since 1817.
But this belief is dark and dubious." Andrew Jackson – Presbyterian He became a member of the Presbyterian Church about a year after leaving the presidency.
Historians remain uncertain about Constantine's reasons for favoring Christianity, and theologians and historians have often argued about which form of early Christianity he subscribed to.
These studies gives clues on his abilities to foster the cooperation among different people, such as in the "History of National Struggle Volumes I through V".
At the same time, this was tempered, especially in early years, by a strong commitment to disestablishment.
Brill Simpson, Samuel (1902), Life of Ulrich Zwingli, the Swiss Patriot and Reformer, New York: Baker and Taylor Older German / Latin editions of Zwingli's works available online include: Huldreich Zwinglis sämtliche Werke, vol.
Third, if the Americans' aims behind these wars are religious and economic, the aim is also to serve the Jews' petty state and divert attention from its occupation of Jerusalem and murder of Muslims there.
What impression Paul took away from this theological jousting match we can gather from a letter which he wrote to the pope and cardinals to give them an account of the discussions he had had with the ex-emperor John Kantakouzenos around 1366-1367.
It was agreed that avoidance of idolatry, fornication, and the eating of flesh cut from a living animal should be demanded of Gentiles who wished to become Christians.
In it he called the Brahmins 'mosquitos', 'bugs' and 'Jews', and said that the abolition of the reign of priests was more urgent than the abolition of zamindari.
However, Burke fiercely defended the Church establishment from attacks from within the Church of England.
Francis instead suggested that Jesus can be found in others' faces, voices, and pleas that constantly call us to live in fraternity.
Criticism of the grammarians Ibn Taymiyya had mastered the grammar of Arabic and one of the books which he studied was the book of Arabic grammar called Al-Kitab, by Sibawayh.
It is nevertheless widely read amongst Christadelphian believers and whilst not being the foundation for, does contains some of their core beliefs.
Entry into Augustinians and seminary studies On September 1, 1977, Prevost entered the Order of Saint Augustine's novitiate in the Province of Our Mother of Good Counsel, residing for one year at Immaculate Conception Church in the Gate District of St.
However, a Washington Post article dated February 27, 1929, stated that he planned to swear, rather than affirm, the oath.
In fact, the Council did not advocate progressive changes in these areas; for example, they still condemned abortion as an unspeakable crime.
Taylor noted Madonna revived a similar longstanding religious criticism on rock and roll, that led representative of the religions charge her as a demonic.
Harrison's interest in Indian culture expanded to Hinduism and after the 1966 American tour, until the commencement of the Sgt.
This was the way backward people lacking in political consciousness would express themselves in daily life—people with a contemptuous attitude toward Jews.
More recently, some Roman Catholic thinkers have taken a positive view of Palamas's teachings, including the essence–energies distinction, arguing that it does not represent an insurmountable theological division between Roman Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy.
Law and Gospel Another essential aspect of his theology was his emphasis on the "proper distinction" between Law and Gospel.
In advising the use of force, he advocated means that were essentially incompatible with his faith in Christ.
Darwin now became involved in helping Innes with detective work, subsequently advising him that the gossip that had reached Innes was not backed up by any reliable evidence.
I'm a most religious fellow." When talking about Bob Dylan's new-found Christianity, Lennon said, "But the whole religion business suffers from the 'Onward, Christian Soldiers' bit.
Fuentes is a prominent Holocaust denier and antisemite, and Ye had made widely reported antisemitic comments during the months before the dinner.
Life of Constantine was written by Eusebius after Constantine had died, and Eusebius admitted that he had heard the story from Constantine long after it had happened.
A passage from Dawkins's contribution is as follows: The word 'apes' usually means chimpanzees, gorillas, orangutans, bonobos, gibbons and siamangs.
Jackson tried to compensate Van Buren by appointing him the Minister to Great Britain, but Calhoun blocked the nomination with a tie-breaking vote against it.
The Church generally regarded the definition of doctrine as the responsibility of the bishops; the emperor's role was to enforce doctrine, root out heresy, and uphold ecclesiastical unity.
it's a public school." Middle name "Mohammed" claim One chain e-mail claimed incorrectly that President Obama's middle name is Mohammed or Muhammed.
Trump's claims were accused of evoking an antisemitic trope that Jews have a 'dual loyalty' and are more loyal to Israel than to their own countries.
During his White House years, Lincoln and his family often attended the New York Avenue Presbyterian Church, where a plaque marks the family pew he rented.
The dating of Easter Constantine supported the separation of the date of Easter from the Jewish Passover (see also Quartodecimanism), stating in his letter after the First Council of Nicaea (which had already decided the matter): "...
The president should not denigrate other countries." Senator Tim Scott of South Carolina, the only African-American Republican in the Senate, and Senator James Lankford of Oklahoma, called the comments "disappointing".
This argument convinced the British government, and the recently formed Royal Air Force was sent to Iraq.
The topic is also of interest to religious groups and the general public who may appeal to representatives of their denomination on religious or moral issues facing the House of Representatives.
Burke's religious thought was grounded in his belief that religion is the foundation of civil society.
While boarding at the home of Rachel Stockly Donelson, the widow of John Donelson, Jackson became acquainted with their daughter, Rachel Donelson Robards.
Therefore, this irregularity must be corrected, in order that we may no more have any thing in common with those parricides and the murderers of our Lord.
Regarding A Clockwork Orange, Kubrick also shared his views on the nature of man: Man isn't a noble savage, he's an ignoble savage.
NFL must respect this!" Trump had Vice President Mike Pence attend an NFL game in Indianapolis, telling him "to leave stadium if any players kneeled, disrespecting our country." Pence left after the anthem, an action that was seen by many as a publicity stunt.
Trump's statements disparaging immigrants who have come to this country legally are particularly unhelpful.
I have a kind of personal faith in something good, but it doesn't really go much further than that", while stating "there is something greater than me".
He differed in important ways from the Calvinism with which he is associated, particularly concerning the doctrines of grace and predestination.
Organizers of the 2016 Northeast Conference on Science and Skepticism unilaterally declared his tweet "very offensive" and disinvited him without speaking to him.
A further link to information on their worldviews is given where available, but the absence of such a mention does not mean that other chancellors’ views were necessarily in line with the teachings of their church.
Following mounting criticism from Jewish groups, Trump's campaign responded that "Trump is right" and that the Democratic Party "has turned into a full-blown anti-Israel, antisemitic, pro-terrorist cabal".
Kendall interpreted Calvin as believing that Christ died for all people, but intercedes only for the elect.
Jews living in the Roman Empire were legally obliged to pay the Fiscus Judaicus tax since the destruction of the Jewish Temple in 70 CE.
In his response titled "Apodictic Treatises", Palamas insisted that it was indeed demonstrable that the Holy Spirit proceeded from the Father but not from the Son.
A week later, on Orthodox Easter, Trump posted a picture of himself on Truth Social depicted as Jesus, drawing widespread criticism from Evangelicals and Catholics, resulting in Trump deleting the post hours later.
First Vatican Council Pius IX was the first pope to popularize encyclicals on a large scale to foster his views.
No one rationally could." The United Nations On March 11, 2026, the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination issued a statement condemning "racist hate speech by political leaders, including the President".
For issues about Nazi stance on religion, see Religion in Nazi Germany, Religious aspects of Nazism, and Religious views of Adolf Hitler.
Historians such as Henry Laurens, Ronald Schechter, and Jeremy Popkin believe that the German document, which has never been found, was a forgery, as Simon Schwarzfuchs asserted in his 1979 book.
The volumes were likely gospel books containing the Canonical Gospels of the Four Evangelists rather than complete Bibles with the entire Biblical canon, which were very rare in antiquity.
Sometimes Johnson discussed theological topics like the nature of God or political topics like morality's role in governmental action.
Nasr writes that it was discovered that Qurayzah had been complicit with the enemy during the battle.
A dean of the Marxism–Leninism department at a Soviet university explained the policy to his students: "One of you asked if our current political campaign can be regarded as antisemitic.
Several popular diet patterns prohibit the inclusion of some categories of animal products and may also limit the conditions of when other animal products may be permitted.
Ultimately, the California hide trade set an important precedent which would impact the way the people looked at the West for decades to come.
Salo or slanina is a European food consisting of salt-cured slabs of pork subcutaneous fat with or without skin and with or without layers of meat.
Aspartic acid, which can make up up to 50% of shell framework proteins, is most abundant in calcitic layers, and also heavily present in aragonitic layers.
Ingredients A sausage consists of meat cut into pieces or ground, mixed with other ingredients, and filled into a casing.
This list of egg topics is not intended to be complete, but it spans the vast majority of related articles.
The membrane can also show the pattern of the animal's vein network called the veining of the sheet.
It was originally applied to synthetic fibers to reduce transparency, slipperiness and increase warmth, absorbency and makes the yarn more opaque.
It may have even evolved there, as Maine at that time would have been covered in glaciers, although the oldest known specimen only dates back to around 5,000 years; this could be due to the rising sea levels—older sea mink remains may be submerged underwater.
In 1999, Worthington Foods was acquired by Kellogg's and then, in 2015, by the Atlantic Natural Foods Company, without the Morning Star brand.
When suet is made from scratch, the maker can pack it into the crevices of pine cones to make a natural feeder.
They can drink as much as 30 imperial gallons (140 litres) at a time but this is stored in the animal's bloodstream, not, as popularly believed, in its humps.
Among some tribes, adults wore a loincloth-like pubic covering, which also hung from the waist belt.
The portions are cubed and then seasoned, cured, rested, ground and finally placed into the desired vessel.
It is very expensive; a high quality knitted scarf can cost more than $300 U.S., but will last over 20 years with good care.
See also Cephalopod ink References External links Media related to Sepia (color) at Wikimedia Commons
"A review of quantitative microbial risk assessment in the management of Escherichia coli O157:H7 on beef." Meat Science 74.1 (2006): 76–88.
The sea cow's blubber was 8–10 cm (3–4 in) thick, another adaptation to the frigid climate of the Bering Sea.
Matheny became interested in cultured meat after researching infectious diseases (HIV prevention) in India for a master's degree in public health.
Camels have a series of physiological adaptations that allow them to withstand long periods of time without any external source of water.
Criticism There have been multiple occurrences of the producer code being forged: a common strategy is to have multiple barns on the same farm, with some having caged hen production and others with organic production.
He found success with the Kenya Wildlife Service, which in 1997 commissioned his paper for special events.
The East Slavic, Hungarian and Romanian variety may also be cured with paprika or other seasonings added, whereas the South and West Slavic version is often smoked.
In 2021 a consumer lawsuit brought by PETA and a few individual plaintiffs alleged that Vital Farms misled customers to believe its hens were treated more ethically than in reality.
The World Cancer Research Fund International guidelines on cancer prevention recommend avoiding all processed meats.
American trade initially began with sailors from New England, who found an interest in the California otter and seal skins industry which diminished in prominence rapidly after the beginning of the nineteenth century.
The Oomingmak Musk Ox Producer's Cooperative was formed in the late 1960s by indigenous women on Nunivak Island, with the help of Dr.
In Britain, starting in the Tudor period, dog-powered turnspits were used; the dog ran in a treadmill linked to the spit by belts and pulleys.
Ant egg soup is a traditional dish of Laos, but popularity of the dish is waning in the younger generations.
This finding suggests that DNA methylation in honey bees allows the expression of epigenetic information to be differentially altered by nutritional input.
Its primary structure in humans is: NH2-His-Ser-Gln-Gly-Thr-Phe-Thr-Ser-Asp-Tyr-Ser-Lys-Tyr-Leu-Asp-Ser-Arg-Arg-Ala-Gln-Asp-Phe-Val-Gln-Trp-Leu-Met-Asn-Thr-COOH (HSQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNT).
A hunter who manages to extract the horn will place it in a silver casket of vermilion powder, which is thought to give the object sustenance.
However, the First Book of Kings states that it was absent earlier than Jeremiah, during Solomon's reign in the tenth century B.C.
However, proteolytic bacteria are able to dissolve or break down the connective tissue and fibers of the meat and enter the inside.
O'Hayer built the company with 20 hens in a 27-acre farm based on the philosophy of conscious capitalism.
The interior of a cut of meat will still increase in temperature by 3–5 °C (5–9 °F) after it is removed from an oven or other heat source as the hot exterior continues to warm the comparatively cooler interior (indeed it can increase by more, depending on factors such as a high ambient temperature).
This phase can either subside or progress into a "late-phase reaction," which can substantially prolong the symptoms of a response and result in more tissue damage.
It was a loosely woven, soft, double faced twill weave construction that was primarily used for coats and overcoats.
But it must always have been much easier to obtain in regions without populations of elephants, walrus or other sources of ivory.
For example, the FAO (2002) figure for Denmark, which has one of the highest meat export rates compared to its population, was 145.9 kg (322 lb) (highest in the world).
Other components identified in eggshell membranes are hyaluronic acid, sialic acid, desmosine, isodesmosine, ovotransferrin, lysyl oxidase, lysozyme, and β-N-acetylglucosaminidase.
The final investigation notice from 2023 advises that "people who are pregnant, aged 65 or older, or have a weakened immune system" reheat deli products to the aforementioned temperature in order to "kill any germs", even when there is no ongoing outbreak.
The trays of meat raffled vary in content: a barbecue style mix of steaks, lamb chops, sausages, etc.
McLagan's explanation for the belief that fat is unhealthy comes from Ancel Keys's studies in the 1940s, which linked animal fat to heart disease—studies which have since been challenged by other studies which do not link the two.
This meat has a dark hide and the hairs of the skin remains stuck to the fat even if it is dipped in boiling water.
Initially, it was considered that occasional hunters were the cause, but investigations uncovered evidence that large commercial organizations were dealing in poaching and smuggling.
134 - Beef Bones - This item consists of any one or combination of shank, femur, or humerus bones sawed into sections of lengths as specified by the purchaser.
A buffalo coat is a heavy winter garment made from the bison, which also commonly known as the "buffalo" (though not closely related to African or Asian buffaloes).
Other pearls from giant clams are known to exist, but this is a particularly large one, weighing 14 lb (6.4 kg).
The Dave TV comedy show Compete for the Meat, hosted by Al Murray, is loosely based on the concept of a meat raffle.
The famous Russian writer Leo Tolstoy in A Confession spoke of running away from his troubled life by drinking kumis.
Smoke-jacks are sometimes moved by means of spiral flyers coiling about a vertical axle; and at other times by a vertical wheel with sails like the float-boards of a mill: but the above is the more customary construction.
For the wax-making bees to secrete wax, the ambient temperature in the hive must be 33 to 36 °C (91 to 97 °F).
Various types of salted meat are staples of the diets of people in North Africa, Southern China, Scandinavia, coastal Russia, and in the Arctic.
Net animal losses are the difference between the calories in human-edible crops fed to animals and the calories returned in meat, dairy and fish.
It is made from fresh meat (often pork) and fat, and is flavoured with spices, salt, and pepper, and traditionally stuffed into natural gut casings.
Definition In the context of nutritional science, red meat is defined as meat obtained from mammals, including beef, pork, lamb, mutton, veal, venison, and goat.
Caul fat, also known as lace fat, omentum, crépine or fat netting, is the greater omentum used as offal: the lace-like, fatty membrane which surrounds the internal organs of some animals, such as cows, sheep, and pigs.
However, many non-Inuit object to the use of seal skin, fur and pelts, and it is illegal to hunt seals in many countries, particularly young seals.
Today many "keshi" pearls are intentional, with post-harvest shells returned to the water to regenerate a pearl in the existing pearl sac.
Under visual assessment by independent panelists, the USDA marbling score of the powder-treated meat increased by two levels.
White individuals were reserved for dignitaries, while those of other colors were shared with commoners (including for the purpose of bride prices).
For example, the male blue wildebeest reams the bark and branches of trees to impress the female and lure her into his territory.
They were also ritually slaughtered by the Mapuche, as attested by various 16th century Spanish records.
A bone folder, bonefolder, or folding bone is a dull-edged hand tool used to fold and crease material in crafts such as bookbinding, cardmaking, origami, and other paper crafts that require a sharp crease or fold.
For birds other than chicken, ingredient labels must include the name of the bird source ("duck egg," for example).
The names of articles were linked from current articles, but those article names might be changed, at a later time.
Alaska In Alaska, big game roadkill (notably moose and caribou) are considered state property; the operator of the vehicle that killed the animal must call a state trooper or the division of fish and wildlife protection to report the kill.
Uses All spiders produce silks, and a single spider can produce up to seven different types of silk for different uses.
It recommends an internal temperature of at least 145 °F (63 °C) for cuts of beef, veal, and lamb in order to prevent foodborne illness, and warns that color and texture indicators are not reliable.
In fact, the most notable characteristic of the skull was its size, in that it was clearly larger than that of other mink species, having a wide rostrum, large nostril openings, large antorbital foramina (openings in the skull in front of the eye socket), and large teeth.
See also Organic certification – organic products must bear a registration number that allows to trace back the ingredients.
In the Mishnah, manna is treated as a natural but unique substance, "created during the twilight of the sixth day of Creation", and ensured to be clean, before it arrives, by the sweeping of the ground by a northern wind and subsequent rains.
North America North American breakfast or country sausage is made from uncooked ground pork, breadcrumbs and salt mixed with pepper, sage, and other spices.
In the Philippines, kwek-kwek is a popular street-food delicacy, which consists of soft-boiled quail eggs dipped in orange-colored batter before being skewered and deep-fried.
This can include animal feet, livers, lungs, heads, spleens, etc or an admixture in the form of meat and bone meal.
According to healers and witch doctors in Nepal, a jackal horn can be used to win in gambling bouts, and ward off evil spirits.
Snake soup or stew (Chinese: 蛇羹; pinyin: shé gēng; Jyutping: se4 gang1) is a popular Cantonese delicacy and health supplement in Hong Kong, which contains the meats of at least two types of snakes as the main ingredients.
Controversy In 2011, Masaki Kamakura published a study claiming that MRJP1 controls division of labour (called polyethism).
See also Salt pork Szalonna, Hungarian salt pork Lardo, Italian salt pork Charcuterie Notes References Further reading Viktoriya Popovych, There Is No Ukraine Without Salo: An Analysis of the Cultural and Social Significance of Salo in Ukraine, Compass, 2023, vol 3, issue 1, pp.
Included in Fat are instructions for fat rendering, recipes for its use, and a description of the health benefits of eating animal fat.
The "horns" of a pronghorn (which is not a cervid but a antilocaprid) meet some of the criteria of antlers, but are not considered true antlers because they contain keratin.
See also The Meat Buyer's Guide, North American Meat Processors Association (NAMP), listing all IMPS cuts by number, with color photos.
Sepia is a reddish-brown color, named after the rich brown pigment derived from the ink sac of the common cuttlefish Sepia.
Zoologists note that the conspicuous coloration, the presence of a powerful toxin, and the adults' aggregating behaviour in full view of any predators strongly suggest aposematism among the blistering meloid beetles.
In biology, a lerp is a structure of crystallized honeydew produced by larvae of psyllid bugs as a protective cover.
The 1970s saw American diets adopting lower amounts of animal fat (though without an improvement in overall health), resulting in an increased intake of overall fat, with vegetable fats substituted for animal fats, leading to higher polyunsaturated fat levels in the diet.
Seal skins have been used by the peoples of North America and northern Eurasia for millennia to make waterproof jackets and boots, and seal fur to make fur coats.
It is secreted from the glands in the hypopharynx of nurse bees, and fed to all larvae in the colony, regardless of sex or caste.
Along with the identical Canadian Wholesale Meat Specifications Document, they are widely used in the wholesale meat industry, both for institutions and for retailers.
Further, films like Angry Inuk (2016) expose the importance of sealing in providing a sustainable way of making money for Inuit that does not require destructive practices like mining or seismic testing to take place.
Medical experts have warned against the diet as it is nutritionally unbalanced, unsustainable and in the long run will do more harm than good.
Meat consumption was calculated using a trade balance approach - total production plus imports, minus exports.
Hubs of influence By the mid-1820s, the hide and tallow trade, facilitated by Spanish missions and their clergy and later replaced by private ranches, represented the key profitable industry in California, taxes on their primary products propping up the regional economy and infrastructure.
Cooking methods Meats cooked at high temperatures, especially above 300 °F (149 °C) (as in grilling or pan frying), or that are cooked for a long time tend to form more HCAs.
The RCMP (and other Canadian police services) briefly revived them in the 1930s when 700 hides were donated by the Canadian parks service.
company based in Cranford, New Jersey, that makes a range of soy-based, dairy-free foods under the "Tofutti" brand that was founded by David Mintz.
In food preparation, it is used as a coating for cheese; by sealing out the air, protection is given against spoilage (mold growth).
Pollutants can be divided into two main categories: Gaseous Oxidizing "The process involves the formation of free radicals, acids, and other compounds in many materials," they are especially damaging to organic materials, causing them to become more brittle.
The upper layer of the septa and walls consist of vertically aligned crystals, whereas the bottom sublayer consists of nanorods rotated with respect to each other to form a "plywood" structure.
Gradations, their descriptions, and their associated temperatures vary regionally, with different cuisines using different cooking procedures and terminology.
The presence of an ammonium ion raises the pH of the extrapallial fluid, favouring the deposition of calcium carbonate.
Ethoxyquin has long been suggested to be a possible carcinogen, and a very closely related chemical, 1,2-dihydro-2,2,4-trimethylquinoline, has been shown to have carcinogenic activity in rats, and a potential for carcinogenic effect to fish meal prior to storage or transportation.
On 11 January 1922, Leonard Thompson, a 14-year-old diabetic who lay dying at the Toronto General Hospital, was given the first injection of insulin.
Production The lac, a resin secreted by lac insects, is sourced from regions like Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand.
In 1949, the Parliament of Canada enacted the Agricultural Products Marketing Act in order to regulate extraprovincial trade.
The snake-soup industry reached its golden period in the 1980s when there were over 100 eateries that prepared snake soup.
The lucrative market for fish meal as a feed encourages corporate fisheries not to limit their yields of bycatch (from which fish meal is made), and thus leads to depletion of ecosystems, environmental damage, and the collapse of local fisheries.
Imigongo (Kinyarwanda: [i.mí.ɡôː.ŋɡo]) is an art form popular in Rwanda traditionally made by women using cow dung.
The breakdown of triglycerides by adipose tissue into free fatty acids and glycerol is also inhibited.
Ox gall (also spaced oxgall) is bile, also known as "gall", usually obtained from the gallbladder of cows, it is an ingredient in bile soap and mixed with alcohol and used as the wetting agent in paper marbling, engraving, lithography, and watercolor painting.
Christine Nicol of the University of Bristol, a professor of animal welfare, said "There is no strong evidence of pain in egg-laying hens but it's not unreasonable to think there may be a mismatch in the size of birds and the eggs they produce.
Chondrin is a bluish-white gelatin-like substance, being a protein-carbohydrate complex and can be obtained by boiling cartilage in water.
In 2025 the company started construction on an egg washing and packing facility in Seymour, Indiana that is expected to generate $350 million in additional revenue by 2027.
The National Pork Board has positioned it as "the other white meat", profiting from the ambiguity to suggest that pork has the nutritional properties of white meat, which is considered more healthful.
Taxonomy The chilihueque was first scientifically described by Juan Ignacio Molina in 1782, who named it Camelus araucanus.
tenera occurs in fossil beds that are 46 to 51 million years old, in the Laney Member of the Green River Formation.
The company initially had difficulty overcoming local workers' taboo against feces, but found success contextualizing the work as indirect worship of Ganesha.
Elk (Moose) Sweden, 2000, Ann-Mari Remahn & Sune Häggmark, Moose Garden) Bison Idaho, USA, invented c.
Not all mineralized tissues develop through normal physiologic processes and are beneficial to the organism.
These animals are commonly referred to as lerp insects, of which there are over 300 species in Australia.
An increased catch of unsaleable whole fish has resulted from the increased bycatch of the fishing industry.
Additionally, products that appear to be of a higher quality as a result of fat injections must include a statement to indicate this, such as "injected with beef fat", "artificially marbled—simulated fat covered", or "product may appear to be of a higher quality than the actual grade".
The specimen shows distribution of large pennaceous feathers on the forelimbs and tail, implying that pennaceous feathers spread to the rest of the body at an earlier stage in theropod evolution.
Use by humans Cultivation Royal jelly is harvested by stimulating colonies with movable frame hives to produce queen bees.
A number of countries have later adopted regulations to completely ban cage farming (including the furnished cage option), for example Switzerland, Germany and the UK with a transition period to 2025.
Discovery In 1946, Ruzicka and Lardon "established that the fragrance of ambergris is based on the triterpene (named) ambrein".
The interior of bones are softer and even less capable of a fine finish, so most uses are as thin plaques, rather than sculpture in the round.
Microwave rendering resulted in oil recovery of 61% by weight of the frozen fat tissue obtained from producers.
Manusmṛti and medicinal texts like Sushruta Samhita), dog's meat was regarded as the most unclean (and rather poisonous) food possible.
Distribution This is an intertidal species, found on rocky shores in Malaysia, Singapore and Indo-China; also off Japan.
Adulteration Beeswax faces challenges in the market due to the presence of various suppliers, making it difficult to distinguish authentic from fake variants.
There are many different methods of yarn dyeing: package dyeing, skein dyeing, space dyeing, warp beam dyeing, and more.
Glucagon also decreases fatty acid synthesis in adipose tissue and the liver, as well as promoting lipolysis in these tissues, which causes them to release fatty acids into circulation where they can be catabolised to generate energy in tissues such as skeletal muscle when required.
Raw material choice; either whole fish or by-products, depends on the commercial sources of the fish.
Stabilizers The liquid fish hydrolysate process minces the whole fish, then enzymatically digests, then grinds and liquifies the resulting product, known as gurry.
In Brazil, they are believed to be aphrodisiac and sometimes used as a home remedy against erectile dysfunction.
In desperation, farmers collected the bones from major battlefields like the Battle of Waterloo and the Battle of Austerlitz to crush them and refertilize the soil.
Ramet of the École Nationale Supérieure d'Agronomie et des Industries Alimentaires, who was able to produce curdling by the addition of calcium phosphate and vegetable rennet in the 1990s.
In Japan, the equivalent folding tool is traditionally made from bamboo, although alternatives include a Japanese fabric marking tool (hera) and a Western bone folder.
Some businesses have taken advantage of the improved appearance in an attempt to pass it off as the higher-quality naturally marbled meat, especially in environments such as restaurants, where the meat's packaging and labelling are not visible to customers.
The government of Quezon City is also planning on raising harsher penalties for trading illegal meat such as the immediate revocation of the business permit of the offending sellers.
References External links Large Animal Research Station The Papers of Werner Von Bergen on Musk-Ox Wool at Dartmouth College Library
Dippel's oil (sometimes referred to as bone oil) is a nitrogenous by-product of the destructive distillation of bones and other parts of animal carcasses.
Buffalo coats were issued to police and military officers, particularly the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and the United States Army, prior to their replacement by parkas.
Some meat scientists are studying methods of producing artificial meat such as cultures of muscle cells.
Names and labelling The Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority of Singapore labels artificially marbled beef as "beef tallow-injected further processed beef".
It can result in the ornamentation of a bone by engraving, painting or another technique, or the creation of a distinct formed object.
Stock Previously listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol TOF, Tofutti was delisted in 2016 and now trades over the counter under the symbol TOFB on the OTCQB market.
As a result, processed meats may significantly contribute to incidence of heart disease and diabetes, even more so than red meat.
In the last quarter of the 18th century, Professor Jakob Seydelmann of Dresden developed a process to extract and produce a concentrated form of sepia for use in watercolors and oil paints.
However, the term "finfish" is sometimes used to distinguish fish, animals defined by having vertebrae, from shellfish in modern terminology.
The species of animals hunted as game varies in different parts of the world and by different local jurisdictions, though most are terrestrial mammals and birds.
It is illegal to import snake wine to many countries because many of the snakes used for its production are endangered species.
It is a greenish-brown liquid mixture containing cholesterol, lecithin, taurocholic acid, and glycocholic acid.
Although the term is primarily applied to marine species, edible freshwater invertebrates such as crayfish and river mussels are also sometimes grouped under the umbrella term "shellfish".
Boiling down was industrialised in the 1840s, providing the rural sector with a valuable export commodity.
However, a women's cooperative on the road to Rusumo in the Eastern Province near Kirehe has rescued and revived this uniquely Rwandan art form.
Namely, they argue that the consistent structure, regular spacing, and extension of the filaments beyond the wing membrane support their identification as pycnofibres.
Products Tofutti produces an ice cream substitute, soy-based sour cream, cream cheese, sliced cheese, and ricotta cheese.
There has been some speculation that ethoxyquin in pet foods might be responsible for multiple health problems.
Cooking meat on a spit dates back at least to the 1st century BC, but at first spits were turned by human power.
Feathered dinosaurs Several non-avian dinosaurs had feathers on their limbs that would not have functioned for flight.
Tofutti sells an ice cream substitute for the lactose-intolerant, kosher parve, food allergy sensitive, vegetarian, and vegan markets.
Preservation For preservation, salo is salted and sometimes also smoked and aged in a dark and cold place, where it will last for a year or more.
Brazil In Brazil sizes are based on the mass: Thailand In Thailand sizes are based on minimum mass per egg.
Safety The Norwegian Food Safety Authority considers that children, pregnant women, fertile-aged women, and people with high blood pressure should not consume game shot with lead-based ammunition more than once a month.
Salt and brine are used for the purpose in both traditions, but salting is more common in Kosher Shechita (where it is all but required) than in Halal Dhabiha (as in most cases, draining alone will suffice).
Quail eggs or quails' eggs (British English) are a kind of edible egg, eaten and considered a delicacy in many parts of the world, including Asia, Europe, and North America.
They differ from whipped cream dessert toppings due to containing very little to no dairy whatsoever.
The preservatives added to extend the shelf life have been increasingly scrutinized due to potential links to certain diseases.
However, developing countries still mainly use fish in live or fresh form (53 percent of the fish destined for human consumption in 2016), soon after landing or harvesting from aquaculture.
As marine mammal species often play a large part in their ecosystems, the sea mink could have been an important intertidal predator.
The finings flocculate the live yeast in the beer into a jelly-like mass, which settles to the bottom of the cask.
The oil is separated out in this process, which means the Omega 3 fatty acid would remain with the oil and not the hydrolysate.
Ivory Many mammals, such as elephants, walrus, narwhals, whales, and hippopotami, produce tusks and teeth of ivory that can be used for carving; these are the most commonly found ornamental ivory objects in collections today.
The improper application of bone and meat meal products in animal nutrition can contribute to the spread of transmissible spongiform encephalopathy, commonly known in cattle as Mad Cow Disease.
Even after reversion to Chinese rule, Hong Kong has not lifted its ban on supplying meat from dogs and cats, created during British rule.
Some of the regulatory proteins in mineralized tissues are osteonectin, osteopontin, osteocalcin, bone sialoprotein and dentin phosphophoryn.
In the Kimberley region of Western Australia, the men wore pearl shells as a pubic covering, which they call Riji, and which are considered extremely sacred.
Most photo graphics software programs and many digital cameras include a sepia tone filter to mimic the appearance of sepia-toned prints.
Qin Yufeng, the chairman of a major ejiao manufacturer and a member of Shandong's provincial legislature, has advocated for government support for donkey husbandry.
In addition to birds, peanut butter suet cakes are popular among northern flying squirrels, and have been used as bait by scientists to attract these squirrels for study.
How flat is it?" serves to remind the would-be eater of the two main characteristics to check before preparing roadkill.
Organic materials are highly sensitive to light and the light will cause fading or structural damage if it is not filtered and kept low.
See also List of egg dishes Black-headed gull § Uses Wildlife law in England and Wales Quail eggs Oölogy References External links Foods of England: Plover
Food For Life engages in various sorts of hunger relief, including outreach to the homeless, provision for disadvantaged children throughout India, and provision for victims of natural disasters around the world.
In 1937, a meat inspection law targeting trichinella was introduced for pigs, dogs, boars, foxes, badgers, and other carnivores.
'color ball') is a small, spherical container made from lac, filled with dry Gulal powder, used for celebrating the Hindu festival of Holi.
At the Supreme Court of Canada The scheme was generally upheld, with the appeal being allowed only in part.
In 2025, the leader of a gallstone trading company in Brazil reported paying between $1,700 and $4,000 an ounce which works out to a single gallstone being worth more than the meat of an entire cow.
Royal jelly has been used in traditional medicine since ancient times, and the MRJPs are shown to be the main medicinal components.
It is typically produced by grinding plant material into a thick liquid to which gums are added to imitate the viscosity and mouthfeel of cream.
When further adjusted for loss, calculations by DTU Fødevareinstituttet suggest the actual consumption was 48 kg (106 lb) per adult.
Some other species of fish are also used to make fish leather, and this material is more and more popular among luxury brands such as Prada, Dior, Fendi, and also emerging designers.
They were then released into enclosures with female peacocks, with their mating success measured in successful copulations.
Eggs can be collected in May and June, but care is taken not to damage the rest of the nest or kill any of the remaining ants.
Some of those salted meats (or foods that contain salted meat) are bacon, biltong, cecina, corned beef, ham, jamón, jerky, pastrami, and salt pork.
It is available in many shapes, forms, and textures, and is often used to mimic the texture and color of the meat of lobster, crab, grilled Japanese eel, or shellfish.
The substance has also found culinary use in some blends of the North African spice mix ras el hanout.
Jesuits noted that while the "real" ejiao has no disagreeable taste or smell, the fake product could be distinguished by its unpleasant smell and taste, even when it was made from pig skins (which, supposedly, provided the best approximation of the real thing).
The Hawaiian ports of Honolulu and Oahu existed as significant destinations and ports of call along the way to California, China, and other destinations such as the Russian ports, Petropavlovsk, Fort Ross and Sitka, and the Sandwich Islands as well.
gibbosulus bead was found; at the time the shell was used there, this site was at least 190 km away from the sea.
The egg and wine diet is a fad diet that was popularized in 1964 and revived in 2018 on social media platforms.
Sometimes food prohibitions enter national or local law, as with the ban on cattle abattoirs in most of India, and horse slaughter in the United States.
Bleaching weakens the fibre, however, so many spinners and knitters recommend using only overdyed natural qiviut, which has darker, more subdued colours.
Some of these website recipes are strictly humorous in intent and warn readers that consumption may pose health hazards, possibly severe, if taken seriously.
The best preserved Elimia tenera are from Lake Gosiute which fossils occur in the Fort Laclede Bed of the Laney Member at outcrops in Sweetwater County, in southwestern Wyoming.
The leftovers are called slumgum, and is derived from old breeding rubbish (pupa casings, cocoons, shed larva skins, etc.), bee droppings, propolis, and general rubbish.
Historical background Snake soup has been considered a delicacy in Chinese culture for over two thousand years.
The head of the research team Brahal Bajpai and his crew assessed that a large crocodile farm would produce biodiesel made out of crocodile fat at $2.51 a gallon, excluding the cost of the fat and transportation.
However, with food dishes, non-English names are often adopted into the culture, such as with "Huevos rancheros" as an egg dish found in Tex-Mex cuisine.
It is used as an ingredient in the traditional medicine of China, where it is called ejiao (simplified Chinese: 阿胶; traditional Chinese: 阿膠; pinyin: ējiāo), meaning "gelatin of Dong'e County".
According to the Bible, blood is only to be used for special or sacred purposes in connection with worship (Exodus chapters 12, 24, 29, Matthew 26:29 and Hebrews).
The horizontal septa are typically thicker than the vertical pillars and consist of a double-layered structure.
Many decorated examples shed light on the life and history of the individuals that used them and can be classified as a medium of folk art.
In particular, the following Acts were specified: the Agricultural Products Marketing Act (Canada), R.S.C.
Alligator Creek meatworks was opened in 1877 near Townsville and was important for the early economy.
This 2016 study reported that MRJP1 alone is not the main protein, but MRJP2, MRJP3, and MRJP5 are equally important in the larval development of the queen, consistent with the theory that queen determination is driven by the total amount of food consumed by a larva.
Research has shown that calcium and lead in their ionic forms (Ca2+, Pb2+) have similar atomic structures and so create a potential for accumulation of lead in bones.
Secondary binders Often, the only binder in a forcemeat is the physical structure of the protein used.
The evolution of the genus Hydrodamalis was characterized by increased size, and a loss of teeth and phalanges, as a response to the onset of the Quaternary glaciation.
Their prediction estimated a twenty percent shortage of beef and a thirteen percent shortage of leather in the world market.
They are dyed red (hence called itlog na pula or ‘red eggs' in English) to distinguish them from fresh duck eggs.
It is made by kneading intestinal fat from sheep into lumps, which then get air dried in hjallur (outhouses where the wind can blow through) and fermented.
History McLagen was raised in Australia in the 1960s, prior to the North American and United Kingdom diets moving towards low fat.
Yarn is selected for different textiles based on the characteristics of the yarn fibres, such as warmth (wool), light weight (cotton or rayon), durability (nylon is added to sock yarn, for example), or softness (cashmere, alpaca).
In Japanese cuisine, they are sometimes used raw or cooked as tamago in sushi and often found in bento lunches.
Abdominal fats The sheet of fat which is covering the interior of the abdominopelvic cavity is real chelev, except at some regions where it is covered with muscle, not with skin or tendon.
There was an increase in the monitoring for double-dead meat during December 2008 due to the reported incidence of Reston ebolavirus in four farms in Bulacan.
It was darkest at the tail and the hind limbs, with a 5-by-1.5-centimeter (2 by 0.6 in) white patch between the forearms.
In the arid areas, spinifex is common, whereas in the Top End, palms such as pandanus are often used.
Alpacas are not ruminants, pseudo-ruminants, or modified ruminants, as there are many differences between the anatomy and physiology of a camelid and a ruminant stomach.
A steam-driven jack was patented by the American clockmaker John Bailey II in 1792, and steam jacks were later commercially available in the United States.
Its virtues were to soften the abdomen, eradicate acute fever, and to be useful to the chest and lungs as well as to the choleric and hot natures.
Major decline for production of beef was from India up to 510k and Australia down to 309K metric tons from the prior year.
History In the early 1920s, several groups noted that pancreatic extracts injected into diabetic animals would result in a brief increase in blood sugar prior to the insulin-driven decrease in blood sugar.
However even where it is covered with meat, there is some fat which is still forbidden, since it could occasionally get uncovered while the animal walks.
This method is still used in some parts of the world where processing plants are not available, but the end product is poor quality in comparison with ones made by modern methods.
New Harvest is a donor-funded research institute dedicated to the field of cellular agriculture, focusing on advances in scientific research efforts surrounding cultured animal products.
Other sources of disease-causing pathogens can include, but are not limited to: lettuce, sprouts, fruit juices, vegetables, raw milk, and water.
April 2011, National Beef Packaging recalled more than 27,000 kg (60,000 lb) of ground beef due to E.
Bone also includes the mineral hydroxyapatite, "A calcium phosphate mineral which forms a hard outer covering over the collagen and protein matrix," or organic material.
They contain other minerals such as; calcium, phosphorus, iron, sodium, potassium, vitamin B1, vitamin B2 and Niacin.
"A multi-state survey of consumer food-handling and food-consumption practices." American Journal of Preventive Medicine 16.3 (1999): 216–221.
Habushu is named after the habu snake, Protobothrops flavoviridis, which belongs to the pit viper subfamily of vipers, and is closely related to the rattlesnake and copperhead.
Sahmyook Foods – South Korean food company producing a large range of soy milks and vegetarian products, which is owned by the Seventh-day Adventist Church.
Chicken eggs may be processed the same way, although up to 10% of the batch can break during the process.
It is a traditional element of Holi celebrations in Jaipur, Rajasthan, India, with a history dating back around 300 or 400 years.
Phosphate is never utilised by molluscs, with the exception of Cobcrephora, whose molluscan affinity is uncertain.
Before the beginning of the 20th century, pearl hunting was the most common way of harvesting pearls.
The refrigeration machinery was a combination of Bell-Coleman and Haslam machines, which circulated cold air and removed moisture and impure air at the same time.
According to Our World in Data, meat production has more than quintupled since 1961, reaching around 361 million tonnes in 2022.
It was important in prehistoric art, with notable figures like the Swimming Reindeer, made of antler, and many of the Venus figurines.
See also Escamol, ant larvae and pupae of the genus Liometopum consumed in Mexican cuisine == References ==
A possible mounted sea mink specimen collected in 1894 in Connecticut measured 72 centimeters (28 in) from head to tail and the tail was 25.4 centimeters (10 in) in length; a 1966 study found this to be either a large American mink or possibly a hybrid.
The ground-nesting green plover is more formally the northern lapwing, binomial name Vanellus vanellus.
A meat raffle is a tradition of raffling off meat, often in pubs and bars in Australia, in some areas of Britain and the US, and in Western Canada.
Much of the commercially available qiviut comes from Canada, and is obtained from the pelts of muskoxen after hunts.
In Japan, UDCA has been synthesised from cow galls, as a by-product of the meat industry, since 1955.
The intent is to leave anything structurally sound untouched to retain as much of the historic mount as possible and minimize further damage.
In modern British brewing all commercial isinglass products are blends of material from a limited range of tropical fish.
In the UK, slaughterhouse waste is classed as category 3 risk waste in the Animal By-Products Regulations, with the exception of condemned meat which is classed as category 2 risk.
The term may also be used for any personal container for gunpowder, although powder flask is the strictly correct term.
A farm in the Gulf of California, Mexico, is culturing pearls from the black lipped Pinctada mazatlanica oysters and the rainbow-lipped Pteria sterna oysters.
During a three-year operation (Operation SOUP) ending in 1999, 52 people were arrested and 300 gallbladders seized in Virginia.
Depending on the specific raffle, when a winning number is called the winner can either pick their cut of meat or opt for a gift certificate.
Chilihueque populations declined through the 16th and 17th centuries, becoming outnumbered by sheep and other livestock brought by Europeans.
It is often distinguished from parchment, either by being made from calfskin, rather than the skin of other animals, or simply by being of a higher quality.
Mollusk shell The main structural elements involved in the mollusk shell formation process are: a hydrophobic silk gel, aspartic acid rich protein, and a chitin support.
These beads were discovered at Skhul in Palestine, and were recently dated to between 100,000 and 135,000 years ago.
The remains of three individuals were found preserved in the South Bight Formation of Amchitka; as late Pleistocene interglacial deposits are rare in the Aleutians, the discovery suggests that sea cows were abundant during that era.
Jews (of all religious traditions) who observe the dietary laws thus do not eat shellfish, neither do Seventh-day Adventists, who also follow Jewish dietary law.
The powder-treated meat tended to be juicier than the oil-treated meat after cooking, but otherwise the injected meat had similar colour and flavour to the untreated meat.
Lush – cosmetics company that produces creams, soaps, shampoos, shower gels, lotions, moisturizers, scrubs, masks and other cosmetics using only vegetarian or vegan recipes.
A panade can be made from starchy ingredients which aid in the binding process; these include well-cooked potatoes which have been puréed, cream-soaked bread, or pâte à choux.
Even if two larvae had identical DNA, one raised to be a worker, the other a queen, the two adults would be strongly differentiated across a wide range of characteristics including anatomical and physiological differences, longevity, and reproductive capacity.
Suet is also attractive to black bears, and in areas where bears are known to occur, homeowners are often warned not to leave suet cages up after bears awaken from hibernation.
To continue the process, the habu is put in a 59% alcohol mix for 40 days and finally put in a 35% awamori mix to prepare for consumption.
On July 31, 2020, the company went public in a $125 million IPO on NASDAQ under the ticker symbol VITL.
In the north, the more tightly woven styles are made, whereas in the south, a looser stringed bag, popularly known as a dilly bag are made.
Wild kangaroos are a serious hazard at night in the Australian bush, accounting for 71% of animal-related insurance claims, followed by dogs (9%) and wombats (5%).
The images are produced using a mixture of cow dung and ash, which kills bacteria and removes odour, that gets molded on a flat surface in geometric patterns.
The snake venom proteins are unfolded by the ethanol and therefore the completed beverage is usually, but not always, safe to drink.
Reproduction Females are induced ovulators; meaning that the act of mating and the presence of semen causes them to ovulate.
The snakes, preferably venomous ones, are not usually preserved for their meat but to have their "essence" or venom dissolved in the liquor.
A particularly common form of fermented meat product is the sausage, with notable examples including chorizo, salami, sucuk, pepperoni, nem chua, siraw, som moo, and saucisson.
See also Vegetarianism by country List of countries by seafood consumption Notes References External links "FAO's Animal Production and Health Division: Meat & Meat Products".
For gallbladder by the gram, the least expensive was $0.11 per gram (Thailand) and the highest was $109.70 per gram (Japan).
Eggslut (stylized as eggslut) is a sandwich restaurant chain with locations in the United States, Japan, the United Kingdom, and Australia.
It was asserted at that time that it was as toxic as the most violent poisons then known, such as strychnine.
After the two-week curing period, the eggs are hand-cleaned with water and a brush and prepared to be boiled in low heat for 30 minutes.
Electric lighting was installed 31 years prior to the provision of public electric lighting in Townsville.
When the viper is thawed and awakens, it will quickly die in an aggressive striking manner, which is what most producers look for.
Chelev (Hebrew: חֵלֶב, ḥēleḇ), "suet", is the animal fats that the Torah prohibits Jews and Israelites from eating.
Rabbi Judah HaLevi, in his 12th century work The Kuzari, questioned the practicality of the Karaite position: "Where exactly does [the prohibited fat] end?
Some brands of habushu come with the snake still inside the bottle which is mixed with honey and herbs.
Filament extrusion is sometimes referred to as "spinning," but most people equate spinning with spun yarn production.
The flesh can also be air boiled with chicken, pork bone, lean meat, fish maw, fungus, ginger, lemon leaves, and other spices for flavor.
Drying Well done cuts, in addition to being brown, are drier than other cuts and contain few or no juices.
"Phylogeography of the Rock Shell Thais clavigera (Mollusca): Evidence for Long-Distance Dispersal in the Northwestern Pacific".
Similar garments were also used across Eurasia prior to the gradual displacement and near-extinction of the European bison or wisent.
Projects have ranged from development of serum-free growth medium to bioreactor design to establishment of new cell lines.
In Europe, the shells of both Atlantic and Mediterranean species were used, again circulating over distances of hundreds of kilometers.
Egg mark contents An egg mark may contain a number of information parts - in the EU only the producer code is required.
The diet advocated the consumption of 3-5 eggs per day plus a 24-US-fluid-ounce (710 ml) bottle of wine.
Methods of preparation In Greenland, muktuk (mattak) is sold commercially to fish factories, and in Canada (muktaaq) to other communities.
They function as signal transducing molecules that accelerate the maturation of cells of the immune system.
The authors show that recovery of lipids from the alligator fat tissue was studied by solvent extraction as well as by microwave rendering.
Elimia tenera, formerly known as Goniobasis tenera, is an extinct species of freshwater snail with an operculum, in the aquatic gastropod mollusk family Pleuroceridae.
In the 18th and 19th centuries even urban inhabitants of Ukraine would keep pigs, and their pastures would sometimes be located in central parts of big cities, including Kyiv.
Similarly, a prospective study in the US following half a million people flagged a similar association between death and increased processed meat consumption.
In culture In Vietnam, the common regional name for snake wines is rượu thuốc, while less common ones are referred to as rượu rắn.
The RRP granules represent 0.3-0.7% of the total insulin-containing granule population, and they are found immediately adjacent to the plasma membrane.
Research Human uses The earliest recorded attempt to weave fabric from spider silk was in 1709 by François Xavier Bon who, using a process similar to creating silkworm silk, wove silk derived from spider's egg cocoons into stockings and gloves.
Braising cooking meats, in a covered container, with small amounts of liquids (usually seasoned or flavored).
The fresh, uncooked eggs are individually dipped in the admixture, and packed in 150-egg batches in newspaper-lined 250 mm × 300 mm × 460 mm (10 in × 12 in × 18 in) wooden boxes (often residual boxes of dried fish packing).
In 1942, the Meatworks processed 5,478,000 cans of preserved meat for the season (62,675 cattle and 23,481 sheep) which was more than the Ross River meatworks (42,000 cattle) and the Merinda meatworks (Bowen), at Bowen (29,000 cattle).
They have less fat and calories than chicken eggs by containing only 2.6 grams of fat while chicken egg contains more than 11.7 grams.
Health effects of consumption by humans Bovine colostrum and human colostrum contain many of the same antibodies, immune and growth factors, and nutrients.
It is short and thick in shape and can be eaten grilled, fried, stewed, steamed or even raw when freshly made.
Attachment of the soft organic fibrous membrane to the hard calcite shell is essential for proper chick embryonic development and growth (via ensuring association of the chorioallantoic membrane, and in allowing for air-sac formation at the blunt end of the egg).
"The effect of pre-enrichment protocol on the sensitivity and specificity of PCR for detection of naturally contaminated Salmonella in raw poultry compared to conventional culture." Food Microbiology 23.6 (2006): 599–604.
Manufacture Li Shizhen wrote in Bencao gangmu that ejiao is originally made from beef skin, but by his time, donkey had become the preferred choice.
Samuel Muston wrote that "Eggslut" falls into a category of "quirky" restaurant names, but that "the collision of the word 'egg' and 'slut' doesn't exactly encourage the appetite".
In 2022, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) expressed concern about overexploitation of fish in West Africa, caused by the fish meal and fish oil industry.
Thibet can also be "a fine woolen fabric formerly used for dresses" or a fabric used for suits and coats and "finished with a soft smooth heavily-felted face".
The process of fermentation may be used to render edible meat that would otherwise be poisonous to humans, as in the case of the Icelandic dish hákarl, the fermented meat of the Greenland shark.
Here, isinglass is similar to parchment size and other forms of gelatin, but it is unique in that as a dried film the adhesive can be reactivated with moisture.
The Chesapeake Bay and Maryland region has generally been associated more with crabs, but in recent years, the area has been trying to reduce its catch of blue crabs, as wild populations have been depleted.
There are various ways in which the membrane is separated from the shell, including chemical, mechanical, steam, and vacuum processes.
Molecular species delimitation of the genus Reishia (Mollusca: Gastropoda) along the coasts of China and Korea.
In the United States, egg-breaking facilities generate more than 24 billion broken eggshells every year.
A vibrating belt machine is a device that was promoted to passively reduce body fat through the use of an oscillating or vibrating belt around the exercise subject's waist, without active exercise by the user.
An equipment manager is responsible for the procurement, maintenance, repair, inventory, transportation, storage, cleaning, and disposal of equipment used by a business or organization.
Improvised use of tent pegs The Book of Judges provides the story of Jael, the wife of Heber, a Kenite tentmaker in which Jael kills Sisera by driving a tent peg through his temple as he sleeps.
Twelve new footballs, sealed in a special box and shipped by the manufacturer, are opened in the officials' locker room two hours and 15 minutes before the game.
Discovered around 1900 as a byproduct of the nitrocellulose manufacturing process, Sterno is made from ethanol denatured by adding methanol, water, and an amphoteric oxide gelling agent, plus, in recent decades, a safety dye that gives it a characteristic pink color.
Less known are plus twos, plus sixes, and plus eights, of similar definitions, but accordingly varying lengths.
Hangboard After the development of the campus board, the hangboard (also called the fingerboard) was developed to focus on building static arm strength, and finger tendon strength.
Singh's jodhpur style of flared thigh and hip was rapidly taken up by the British polo-playing community, who adapted it to the existing designs of English riding breeches, which ended snugly at mid-calf, and were worn with tall riding boots.
In the world of theatre tights are also common, especially in Renaissance-era costumes, and dance, particularly in ballet.
Tsubota's hands, which could quickly grasp a player's characteristics and fix them in minutes, were called "magic hands".
In 1997, the company ran into financial difficulties during the 1997 Asian financial crisis and in 1998, Kook-Je and its parent company, Hanil Group, went bankrupt.
However, after a meeting between Vietnamese martial arts masters in 1964, indigo/deep blue was chosen to be the official color of Vietnamese martial arts uniforms.
Products Self-inflating mattress A Therm-a-Rest self-inflating mattress consists of an airtight nylon fabric envelope filled with a sheet of low density, open-cell polyurethane foam.
See also Barbell Dumbbell Kettlebell Exercise equipment Weight training Strength training Resistance training Plyometric training References External links International Bulgarian Bag Confederation
He was truly a master craftsman." Although his title was glove craftsman, he himself insisted that he was not a craftsman; he was an engineer who faithfully responded to the players' requests rather than imposing himself on him.
Veterinarian kits Symbols and identification The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) sets a standard for first aid kits of being green, with a white cross, in order to make them easily recognizable to anyone requiring first aid.
Rollers and trainers are often used by racing cyclists to warm up before racing, or to train indoors on their own machines.
When not in possession of the ball numerical superiority is used to isolate and channel an opponent in possession and 'mark out' any passing options so that an interception or a tackle may be made to gain possession.
It effectively protects against cuts, scrapes, and swelling, but it does not protect very well against concussions.
This happened in August 1999, in a baseball game between the Cleveland Guardians and the Los Angeles Angels, where the distraction caused by a beach ball on the field resulted in the Angels' defeat.
1970s 1970 The 1970 World Series is the first with games on AstroTurf (previously installed at Cincinnati's Riverfront Stadium), as the Reds play the Baltimore Orioles.
In March 2009, Carbrini Sportswear manufactured a one-off set of unique pink kits for Oldham Athletic for their home game against Leeds United.
The most common bobbins are the Petzl Stop and Petzl Simple, but other companies such as Kong and Climbing Technologies also have designs.
Examples are passive (bolts, copperheads, hexcentrics, ice screws, nuts, quickdraws, and skyhooks), and active (cams, friends, tricams).
High profile referee Nigel Owens has however suggested making the wearing of headgear compulsory for all players, and they are mandatory for all players in Japanese youth teams.
Rapala owns 100% of 13 Fishing (a group of brands primarily focused on anglers and fishing), and has exclusive rights to the Okuma fishing brand in Europe and Russia.
Plus fours or plus-fours are breeches or trousers that extend four inches (10 cm) below the knee (and thus four inches longer than traditional knickerbockers, hence the name).
Restricted catches involve positioning the hand around some part of the body, such as under the leg or behind the back.
Gloves are available in a variety of different cuts, including "flat palm", "roll finger" and "negative", with variations in the stitching and fit.
By the mid-2000s, however, the sport experienced a resurgence of growth in Europe, South America, and Japan.
Camalot is a brand of spring-loaded camming devices manufactured by Black Diamond Equipment used to secure ropes while rock climbing.
Hamster balls are recommended by the manufacturers for use with hamsters, gerbils, mice, degus and small rats only; they should not be used for chinchillas or guinea pigs, as their size and body structures are different from small rodents, posing a serious hazard to them if placed inside.
Through a role delineation process, the following areas of job performance were identified and established for athletic equipment managers to be proficient in: management, administration, and professional development; procurement; accountability; maintenance; fitting and safety.
Belay glasses are eyeglasses with prismatic lenses that are used by belayers in rock climbing to avoid the neck strain associated with belaying.
In the Philippines, the various indigenous swords and knives (known under the general term bolo) are commonly incorrectly described as a type of machete (as "bolo machete").
Sports equipment See: Sports equipment#Various sports Association football (soccer) See: Kit (association football)#Equipment In association football, the kit manager or kit man oversees the players' equipment.
A ball gauge is an instrument used by the umpires in cricket to check whether the size of a cricket ball meets the standard measurements mandated by the Laws of Cricket.
Jiu-jitsu regulations allow for tighter cuffs on the pants and jacket, and the skirt (section of the gi beneath the belt) is shorter.
multi-pitch climbing) when the climber cannot comfortably arrange their protection equipment on the gear loops of their harnesses.
External links Video Clip on Using a Figure 8 Belay Device Rei.com How to Choose a Belay Device Mountainproject.com
Widely used in the past by mountain climbers and soldiers, it offers improved gripping on various surfaces.
The water ball is similar to the zorb but it has only one layer and is designed for water travel rather than down-hill rolling.
The 2seconds tent won the Industrial Design Excellence Awards (IDEA) for the innovation of instant tent.
Both Bullworker models have interchangeable springs to easily change resistance levels, ranging from approximately 0–60 kg (0–130 lbs) of resistance.
Most modern devices, including the Petzl Stop, are descended from the Simple, though the idea for a descender similar in function to the Stop goes back to at least 1871.
Smart lacrosse ball On January 14, 2022, at the US Lacrosse Convention, REPS Lacrosse revealed the first "Smart" Lacrosse Ball dubbed the "R1 by REPS".
In contemporary use, it is now common to see coloured bow ties and cummerbunds, often matching, but this is considered non-traditional.
During an episode of acid reflux, small amounts of stomach acid may manage to escape from the stomach and into the oesophagus.
History One of the first bubbles appeared in the film Diamonds Are Forever (1971) and in the music video for the Beach Boys song Getcha Back (1985).
A piece of aid climbing equipment used by the lead climber to attach to bolt runner rivets in the rock.
Transponder timing (also called chip timing or RFID timing) is a technique for measuring performance in sport events.
They have also expanded in less formal situations into use with components of white tie, particularly by musicians, who sometimes wear a white cummerbund instead of the traditional piqué waistcoat.
Their light weight and stability make beach balls ideal for trained seals to balance on their noses, which has become an iconic scene.
Adopted use Mikasa makes the official balls of the Fédération Internationale de Volleyball and the CEV - European Volleyball Confederation (beach and indoor).
An alternative product is a lightweight material vest with built in hydration system, generally know as a race or running hydration vest.
They will also typically have hook extensions to allow the end of the hook to be also driven into the ground, providing a second ground contact point, to reduce the risk that the peg may turn in the ground under tension and allow the rope it is holding to slip off the hook.
In his day he taught Her Majesty Queen Alexandra, George, Prince of Wales (later King George V), Princess Victoria, the Duchess of Connaught and Princess Patricia of Connaught.
They ensure that appropriate equipment is available and functional for specific tasks, both on-site and off-site.
Construction workers often go to diners with a puukko hanging from their overalls, and in the rural and northern parts of the country, it is not uncommon to go shopping in village stores in hunting gear, including a puukko.
These "riding tights" are cheaper to buy than jodhpurs or breeches which are a type of riding pant made of heavier material and which extends only to mid calf length and are intended to be worn with tall riding boots.
The company produces products such as industrial cleaning systems, scrubber driers, electric buses, and battery-operated vehicles.
The term is also used as slang for a type of short riding boot, also called a paddock boot or a jodhpur boot, because they are worn with jodhpurs.
Products The first Springbar tent model, which is still known as the “Traveler,” was 10 by 10 feet, weighed 60 pounds, and cost $83 in 1962.
The record was registered by Guinness and the certificates were given to the members of the film's cast.
On the first day of the UEFA Women's Euro 2025 Admiral released a special edition football shirt with the Spice Girls to celebrate a summer of festivals and football.
Use Colour Cricket balls are traditionally red, and red balls are used in Test cricket and First-class cricket but proposals to introduce other colours date back at least as early as 1937.
Like other cams, Camalot lobes are in the shape of a logarithmic spiral, resulting in a constant angle between the cam and the rock at each contact point; this constant angle is designed to always provide the necessary friction to hold a cam in equilibrium.
In 1999, Australian competitive swimmer Ian Thorpe signed with Adidas for an undisclosed six-figure sum, to race in their new bodysuit, although the national team was sponsored and wore outfits designed by Speedo.
Products Kick scooter models Swift folding bicycle (discontinued) The Swift Folder is a folding bicycle designed by Peter Reich of Design Mobility Inc.
Examples of businesses that might have a Pro shops are bowling alleys, pool and snooker halls, tennis and racquetball courts, ice and roller hockey rinks, and football (soccer) facilities.
A tennis ball generally has 12 pounds per square inch (80 kPa; 0.8 atm) more of a nitrogen and oxygen mixture than the sea level ambient air pressure.
Excessive sitting and bouncing can slowly damage the beach ball, which may cause it to eventually leak or even pop.
Indoor climbing walls can provide on-site fixed mechanical auto belay devices that enable the climber to top rope a route alone; more recent lead auto belay models allow the climber to also lead climb the route alone.
If the ball cannot pass through the maximum diameter, or passes through the minimum diameter, or becomes mis-shapen, the umpires should replace the ball.
They also sometimes perform paid personal equipment maintenance, such as restringing tennis racquets, drilling and fitting bowling balls, re-tipping pool/snooker cues, and skate sharpening.
Genecand was also a well known alpinist (several mountains were named after him: Mount Genecand in Antarctica, Tricouni Peak in Canada).
Racing axe: A tool designed for competitive wood chopping sports such as the Stihl Timbersports Series.
Smaller parachutes tend to fly faster for the same load, and ellipticals respond faster to control input.
Made-to-order custom kits with tailored cuts made to order are becoming increasingly common for individuals, clubs and teams to produce kits with custom designs.
It was introduced by Antoine Le Menestrel to climb a route in Buoux called La rose et le vampire 8b (5.13d) in 1985.
A popular variant is indoor hockey, which differs in a number of respects while embodying the primary principles of hockey.
This is a special traditional style of clothing in Northern India, especially in what is today the modern state of Rajasthan.
Louis Cardinals and Minnesota Twins play the entire 1987 World Series on AstroTurf in their ballparks.
The market has increased both through the popularity of yoga and because many women wear yoga pants as casual everyday dress.
History An "extravagant, careless style that fit right in with the looser fashions and lifestyles of the 1920s", plus fours were introduced to the United States by Edward, Prince of Wales (later Edward VIII), during a trip in 1924.
Some packs are extremely small and minimalist, designed to add as little weight as possible and remain secure while running or cycling, while others are more suited for backpacking and extended hikes, equipped with much larger bladders.
1980s 1980 The Philadelphia Phillies and Kansas City Royals play the entire 1980 World Series on AstroTurf in their ballparks.
creating resistance by pushing or pulling weight away from and toward the body), by using accelerating and deceleration movements to swing and spin the bag at various angles to athlete's body.
Hugh "Shorty" Ray, at the time a college football official and later the NFL's head of officiating, is generally credited with conceiving the pointed football.
For athletes who have practiced pulling movements using only fixed or stable points, the Bachar ladder can improve the strength and efficiency of climbing/pulling movements.
Bone exercise monitors utilize accelerometers for measurement, and the collected data is analyzed with a specially developed algorithm.
I had noticed that a standard pick would often pop out when I placed my weight on it." Chouinard's idea worked and began a period of innovation in ice axe design.
In 1988, Total Gym moved into the physical therapy field, and as of February 2022 most or all of the home equipment line is made in China.
Flukes can deflect or dislodge in harder-packed or dry snow, and are therefore more reliably used in heavy, moist snow.
Overnight shelter An overnight shelter may include a wool blanket and tarp or a complete sleep-system inside a double-walled, four-season tent.
The Carbrini Sportswear football shirts use Carbrini CBX TEX garment technology, which makes the shirts more breathable and able to wick moisture away from the skin.
The hangboard is a popular training tool for all types of rock climbers and comes in many forms, shapes and materials.
The design based on the eyeglasses frame provides for a split field of vision: the central field through the lenses, providing a vertical view to the climber; the peripheral field around the sides of the lenses, allowing the belayer to remain aware of their surroundings.
It is usually a tight-fitting skullcap, usually made of six or eight sections, with a small crescent shaped brim that points downwards over the brow to provide shade for the eyes.
The league later ruled that the Chargers did not violate any rules by using the towels, but the NFL subsequently prohibited its use.
Now owned by Tandem Group, after operating from North Berwick for 126 years, production was moved to China in 2003.
This means that the knee raise in the captain's chair will have more activation in the muscle than the standard crunch.
See also Aquapel Coveralls LZR Racer Ski suit Sportswear (activewear) Racing suit (disambiguation) == References ==
Pitons have been largely replaced by the stronger bolts as the fixed protection of choice but are still an important part of big wall climbing, alpine and aid climbing (but not clean aid climbing, which rules out any use of hammers).
Because goat skin is finer in thickness and the follicles are shallow in the skin, there is less compromise in the strength of the hide when compared to other leathers.
An advanced rock-climbing technique where the knee is dropped downwards to twist the hips—and the centre of gravity—closer to the rock face, thus increasing the amount of upward reach and torque available to the climber; the unique stresses on the knee can lead to serious injuries.
The World Disc Games (WDG) is a semi-regular event that brings the entire world flying disc community together for a week of overall disc events that allow people to compete in and enjoy disc sports.
The device was widely promoted in the 1950s and 1960s as a way to break up abdominal fat through vibration.
A bivouac sack is therefore a common choice for hikers, cyclists or climbers who have to camp in tight areas, or in unknown areas.
Sometimes they are particularly elaborately patterned with different sections in different colours, or different coloured rings or hoops around them.
Xootr scooters are characterized by 180mm wheels with aluminum hubs, and a hand brake for the front wheel (for the rear on old models).
The principal method through which the batter scores runs is by hitting the ball, with the bat, into a position where it would be safe to take a run, or by directing the ball through or over the boundary.
Welsh player Jonathan Davies similarly felt that they should not be compulsory, as injuries were part of the game.
Grades Crampons are graded C1, C2 and C3 relative to their flexibility and general compatibility with different styles of boots.
Used by recreational to professional runners, providing a closer fit, with less likelihood of injury from pressure points - along with front stash pockets, and may include additional storage on the back.
Characteristics Materials Crampons are made of steel alloy, lightweight aluminum, or a combination of the two.
He created gloves for top Japanese and American players such as Sadaharu Oh, Tatsunori Hara, Ichiro Suzuki, Hideki Matsui, Hideo Nomo, Daisuke Matsuzaka, Pete Rose, and Bobby Valentine, and was called a glove master.
Gunn & Moore (GM) is a British sports equipment and clothing company founded in 1885 based in Colwick, Nottinghamshire, England that specialises in cricket.
While the precise terms of the resolution remain confidential by mutual agreement, it has been reported as “a legal victory for RedBall Project”.
Recognition Sun Mountain won four Golf Digest awards for golf equipment in 2017: its 2Five bag won in the Lightweight category, the 3.5LS in Carry, the C-130 in Cart, and the 5.5LS in Hybrid.
Springbar tents have been widely noted among outdoor enthusiasts, brands and publications for their easy set up, functionality and versatility.
Candidates are nominated from each District then reviewed by the Board of Directors and past award winners before the three finalists are voted by all active AEMA members.
The replacement ball is ideally an old ball that was used in a previous match for a comparable number of overs as the ball being replaced, so that it has had approximately the same amount of use and wear as the old ball.
Butler, who broke up with Elliot three years later, said in retrospect that she was not embarrassed about posing, nor bitter that she did not receive any royalties from the photo.
Total Gym Direct website (Total Gym Fitness) with home equipment focus., totalgymdirect.com, retrieved on 2022-02-20.
While there, he was known for taking wagers on the course, presumably betting on himself against all takers of his challenges.
This fall-stop device usually takes the form of a safety arch to which a line is attached to an electrical switch.
Legality In Finland, carrying a knife in public without an acceptable (usually job-related) reason is prohibited, and the only urban areas where open knife-carrying is an everyday sight are military garrisons.
Infomercial In 1996, Campanaro made a deal with American Telecast Products to produce the first Total Gym infomercial, which featured Chuck Norris and Christie Brinkley as spokespersons.
Description The dresses typically incorporate a bodysuit including bike shorts under a racerback A-line dress, often with a pocket in the shorts to accommodate a phone, keys, or credit card.
It is commonly used in grappling sports such as amateur wrestling, submission wrestling and Brazilian jiu-jitsu.
the quartering of the commander-in-chief of the forces and secretary at war in the Horse Guards building and the derivation of the rank and title marshal from what was originally a title for the commander of cavalry.
Equipment for the cyclist Basic equipment The basic equipment set out in the UCI technical regulation guide (Section 3: riders’ clothing) includes a jersey with sleeves, a pair of shorts and possibly a skinsuit.
Instead, they were simply engineless aircraft towed by another aircraft to a desired destination and then cast off for landing.
of Brooklyn, New York, in collaboration with Jan VanderTuin of the Center for Appropriate Transport in Eugene, Oregon.
In almost all models, the board's length and width are about the same size; a circle is the usual shape.
He was saved from sinking below the surface when an assistant dragged the ball back to dry land using a safety line, witnessed by a crowd of tourists.
The devices became a common comedic element in television shows, seen in I Love Lucy and The Flintstones.
Other versions, using materials such as animal fur, rope made from animal intestines and muscles, and pine wood, were found in Scottish castles dating back to the 16th century.
This was in the early 1950s and the space and science fiction interest of the time gave the creation the name "flying saucer" (flygande tefat).
As another example, upper-body strength may be increased by utilizing large lunges between specific rails or holds of the campus board ("power throws").
Event Producer Mentored during college by Bill Graham, Dwork is a pioneer of "transformational festivals" based on mythic themes, environmental production ethics, and audience participation.
The IPSF each year arrange the World Pole Championships to which each country with an associated national pole sports federation sends their top pole dancers.
When taking an attacking free hit, the ball may not be hit straight into the circle if the hitting player is within their attacking 23-meter area (25-yard area).
Xootr (pronounced "zoo-ter") is an American manufacturer of folding kick scooters and was formerly a seller of folding bicycles.
Aiders (or the French etriers) are short 5–6 rung ladders made of lightweight webbing and are a central part of the technique of aid climbing.
The 1960s saw little innovation in kit design, with clubs generally opting for simple colour schemes which looked good under the newly adopted floodlights.
Furthermore, it developed the first two-ply wind shirt in the United States, as well as the first golf push cart.
In 1997 Ginsters, of Cornwall, parodied the advert with the racket being swapped for a Ginsters pasty, but the Advertising Standards Authority banned the advert, for being too crude.
The English historian and biographer John Strype did not use the word hockey when he translated the proclamation in 1720, and the word hockey remains of unknown origin.
The construction of the lure is similar to how they were originally built, with the exception that the core is made from balsa wood instead of cork, and the outer coating is now paint and lacquer.
Cycling kits nowadays are made primarily with synthetic materials, such as Lycra, which conforms to the body, thereby reducing drag by eliminating loose fabric as well as increase in comfort.
The dress was sold for £15,000 (equivalent to £20,700 in 2025), while the racquet went for between £1,000 and £2,000 (equivalent to between £1,400 and £2,800 in 2025).
Quechua (pronounced /ˈkɛtʃᵊwə/, /ˈkɛtʃuːə/ or /ˈkɛtʃwɑː/; Spanish pronunciation: [ˈketʃwa]) is the trademarked French brand for the hiking and camping apparel and equipment marketed mostly by the French company Decathlon.
In the case of low or medium frequencies these consist of wire loops incorporated into mats that cover the entire width of the timing point.
The first time anyone tries inversion therapy with gravity, they should be sure to have someone standing by, in case assistance is required to get out of the apparatus, or if health problems are experienced.
In 2011, Warrington-based private equity firm Energize Capital acquired a majority stake in the company.
Legacy Because of the title, it has been viewed as an amusing case and has notoriety in American legal circles for suggesting that the United States sued cardboard boxes with clacker balls.
In 2008, plus fours were featured in André Benjamin's Benjamin Bixby clothing line, which was based on clothing worn by Ivy League athletes in the 1930s.
A fluke correctly used is buried in the snow, tip pointed down, approximately 40° from the angle of the mountain slope.
See also Official ball supplier List of inflatable manufactured goods References External links CEV and Mikasa unveil new Champions League volleyball in Vienna CEV Website - Confederation Europeenne de Volleyball
Description Belaying involves a person standing on a stable platform below a rock climber controlling the tension and friction of the climber's rope.
They come in many sizes and shapes to suit to any purpose, including plastic cord lock, mini size cord lock, no spring cord lock, with spring cord lock, with rim cord lock.
His course designing credits include the East course at North Berwick, Moffat, Rothesay, Craigielaw Links, the Merchants of Edinburgh, Adare Manor, West Monmouthshire, the Spey Bay Golf Club in Banffshire, and the Ballathie Hotel course in Perthshire.
Nevertheless, the word about the lures started getting around, and in 1938 a local co-operative store in Kalkkinen started selling Rapala lures, marking the first commercial breakthrough for the company.
Through points earned by finishing at DGPT tournaments, competitors can earn berths in the final season event, the Tour Championship.
The readers are attached to one or more antennas that are designed for the particular operating frequency.
Gold Weave Cotton: This material is in-between the single and double weave with regards to weight and durability.
The usage and development of protective gear in sports has evolved through time, and continues to advance over time.
Basic outdoor clothing materials are goose down, wool, polyester, and polyolefin, which provide similar degrees of insulation when dry.
Involvement in football Carbrini was first introduced to JD Sports in 2006 with their funky clothing line of urban footwear.
The ends of the band fit through two opposed holes near the rim of the board, for quick attachment and detachment.
Products The Ergonom is one of the most unusual rackets ever produced, featuring a rotating head that allegedly stayed in line with the path of the ball longer than a conventional racket head.
(2005) "Effects of high-impact exercise on bone mineral density: a randomized controlled trial in premenopausal women".
In the media In 1993, in Madonna's world tour The Girlie Show, dancer Carrie Ann Inaba performed on a tall go-go pole as an intro to the show.
The development of splitboarding simplified backcountry snowboarding, making pristine powder beyond the lift lines accessible to winter recreation enthusiasts.
The bodyskin resembles the design of a dive skin, commonly used by snorkelers and scuba divers for warm weather climates.
While isometrics was the emphasis, the instructions included isotonic, cardio, resiliency and endurance routines.
In 2008, the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) began a worldwide debate when they established Rule 144.2(e), prohibiting the use of technical devices that offer a competitive advantage.
Another common item in early 20th century first aid kits, picric acid gauze for treating burns, is today considered a hazardous material due to its forming unstable and potentially explosive picrates when in contact with metal.
Laser Harp Alembic, which was featured at the Harmony Festival in 2011, at the Portland Art Museum in 2012, at The Tech Museum of Innovation in 2014, and at the Oregon Museum of Science and Industry in 2015.
Pro shops specialize in selling sports equipment and branded items particular to the sport or venue.
Some modern French regiments with a colonial history origin, still retain cummerbunds as part of their full dress uniform (notably the French Foreign Legion and the Spahis).
Such fasteners are also used on various types of bags such as laundry bags and other storage bags that utilize cords to temporarily close an open end.
Furthermore, it is said that he concluded that muscle growth can be attained by exerting 60% of existing muscle strength against a superior resistance for only seven seconds once a day, a fitness technique known as isometrics.
His set designs for Kate Weare Dance Company have also received critical accolades in The New York Times.
A drawback of a simple bivouac sack is the humidity that condenses on the inner side, leaving the occupant or the sleeping bag moist.
Traditionally this is done by imposing a certain level of resistance mechanically and/or measuring this.
Beach volleyballs are slightly larger than standard indoor balls, featuring a coarser external texture and lower internal pressure.
It works with advisers in hiking (Hélène Rochas, Grégory Vollet, Vincent Delebarre, Dachhiri Sherpa), climbing (David Caude), and adventure racing (Quechua Team).
As per Government of India service tax rules under the Finance Act 1997, the definition of a shamiana is given under clause 77A of section 65: "pandaal or shamiana means a place specially prepared or arranged for organizing an official, social or business function".
The puukko has also given the root for the Finnish language verb puukottaa, "to stab (with a knife)" or literally "to knife".
Skip has reportedly requested an appeal of SFMTA's decision, in order to continue operations in San Francisco.
These were predominantly black, sometimes midnight blue to match the trousers, and occasionally maroon (the normal hue for coloured accessories).
The devices usually consisted of a platform on which the subject could stand, with a post extending upward to waist level, mounting an electric motor.
the UIAA standards) for strength, durability, and reliability, and must be certified and tested against such standards with individual pieces of equipment carrying such certification marks.
Therm-a-Rest began as a line of self-inflating camping mattresses, invented in the early 1970s by two former Boeing engineers and avid backpackers.
In some offices, employees are provided with treadmill desks so that employees can walk while working on a computer or speaking on the phone.
The court then ruled that there was no legal issue and granted the United States the seizure and destruction order for the shipment.
CryoNick technology facilitates hot and cold exercise recovery, making it particularly suitable for rehabilitation and physical therapy.
Over the next few years, Kowboy and Wally refined this idea and in 1994 released the first DIY Voile Split Kit.
Most are made of durable transparent plastic with air holes and a small door or lid to allow the owner to insert or remove the hamster from the ball.
The Brazilian Army's Instruction Center on Jungle Warfare developed a machete-style knife with a blade 25 cm (10 in) in length and a very pronounced clip point.
Technical ice axes, which may have curved shafts, are strong enough to be used for steep or vertical ice climbing and belaying on such ground.
As of 2008 there are only four teams who do not have at least one player wearing the helmet: Boston Red Sox, Cleveland Indians, New York Yankees, and Washington Nationals.
Mechanism of action Potential health benefits Inversion therapy uses gravity-assisted traction to reduce compressive forces on the spine.
The company was founded by Matt Tran, Mike Wadhera, and Sanjay Dastoor during Y Combinator's winter 2018 class.
National pole sports federations associated with the IPSF now exist in multiple continents, from Africa to Asia, and other federations are in the process of creating a structured plan to become endorsed by the IPSF.
The switch to synthetic surfaces ended Indian and Pakistani domination because artificial turf was too expensive in developing countries.
The gauge that accepts the maximum size is called 'GO gauge', and the gauge doesn't allow the dimension beyond a certain value is called ' NOGO gauge'.
Better Business Bureau - Total Gym Direct rating and complaints page, bbb.org, retrieved on 2022-02-20.
Pleats The pleats face up because they were originally used to hold ticket stubs and similar items, explaining the slang name 'crumb-catcher'.
The technology is constantly improving to meet the demands of athletes who set ever-higher sports challenges for themselves.
These risks can be diminished by preparing the space, wearing protective gear and following manufacturers' other safety recommendations.
With high physical exertion and an increased risk of falling, a fall-stop unit is required to prevent the subject or patient from falling.
Some schools adopted dress codes banning yoga pants for all students, or banning them only for female students or ordering them to be covered by sweatpants.
The body’s metabolic rate will be raised for a longer period post- exercise from high intensity bouts of exercise.
The sailplane can gain about 270 to 910 metres (900 to 3,000 ft) of height with a winch launch, depending on the headwind.
Some models allow the user to pedal backwards to exercise antagonist muscles which are not exercised in forward pedaling.
Since this activity requires craning one's neck to look up at the climber, a common malady named "belayer's neck" can occur.
Their basic action means that several can also be used as emergency ascenders or assisted-belaying devices (ABDs), but they come in a broad range for a variety of uses (e.g.
Cord locks allow mountaineers to fasten clothing and camping equipment quickly in cold conditions when the fingers are encased in heavy gloves.
At the end of August 2018, the city of San Francisco gave Skip and Scoot permission to operate dockless scooters in the city.
The InfraStar Bike is particularly popular in fitness centers, wellness clinics, and physical therapy settings.
Belt The võ phục is often worn with the corresponding ranking belt (Vietnamese wikt:đai, wikt:帶) of the practitioner around the waist.
TVT asserts that the hamster can not free itself from the ball, cannot control the speed or direction of the ball, and cannot meet the natural instinct to take cover.
Some people use gravity boots to add an extra challenge to workouts, doing inverted crunches or squats.
Initially, this innovation was criticized by well-known climbers of the era, including Martin Conway, a prominent member of the Alpine Club, who was the leader of an early expedition to the Baltoro region near K2 in 1892 of which Eckenstein was a member.
Camalots use a dual-axle system, resulting in a slightly higher expansion range than similarly sized single axle units, however that results in significant weight penalty.
Originally produced in the mid 1990s, removable bolts were at first reported to become permanently lodged in the rock after anchoring a fall.
Ace Novelty Company in Seattle, Washington, declared an interest in the shipment and filed a complaint against forfeiture.
Beginning in 1978, and originally called the Santa Cruz Flying Disc Classic, the WDG has its home in Santa Cruz, California, with promoter and hall of fame disc sport player Tom Schot.
In 2002 Abercrombie & Fitch released a line of thong underwear targeted for girls ages 10–16, though critics pointed out that children as young as seven could fit one of the thongs.
American football football helmet eyeshield rib protector shoulder pads jockstrap with or without a cup pocket and protective cup hip, tail, thigh, knee pads mouthguard Gloves : Gloves can help a receiver keep his hands more warm and protected in poor weather.
A snow anchor (also called a snow pro) is a type of natural or artificial protection used in mountaineering, alpine climbing and ice climbing as an anchor.
Skip differentiated itself from competitors by making sturdier scooters with larger batteries, offering instructional classes, and working with cities before rolling out.
Transponder systems Generally, there are two types of transponder timing systems; active and passive.
Teams representing countries in international competition generally wear national colours in common with other sporting teams of the same nation.
History Rick Reimers, a golf professional from California, first experimented with lightweight nylon golf bags in the late 1970s.
Cords While lengths of webbing can be tied via a knot, such as a water knot, to create custom-length loops instead of the pre-sewn fixed-length slings, their load-bearing capacity can be materially reduced making them less safe.
Indeed, one can play at the highest domestic level for several years, and have a quite significant career in first-class cricket, without ever winning a cap.
Writer-director Glen Weiss made three movies titled the Thong Girl, based on the comic book of the same name.
During the 2014 Commonwealth Games, the team of Daniel Lewis called for the decision to be reevaluated after he was ruled out after sustaining a cut during a match.
Venture's assertions regarding the superiority of a "speedsuit" and his desire to outfit his son Dean in a speedsuit, initially for his birthday and later as a rite of passage.
In almost all models the two flat ends of the wheel/roller are about as far from each other as the width of the board.
To pack the mattress the valve is opened and it is rolled up tightly to force the air out, whereupon the valve is closed to prevent re-inflation.
Pro shops are often managed by a professional player referred to as a house pro, and overseen by a general manager who is employed by or acts as a consultant contractor.
The company was initially named Cascade Designs, which is now the parent company of Therm-a-Rest and other outdoor brands.
References External links Total Gym website with commercial equipment focus, totalgym.com, retrieved on 2022-02-20.
A first-aid kit is a collection of supplies and equipment used to provide immediate medical care, known as first aid, for minor injuries and emergencies until professional treatment becomes available.
Usage mandates In 1984, the International Boxing Association (AIBA) began to mandate the use of headguards in all amateur matches at the national, continental and international levels.
After the game, the kits were auctioned off on the club's website and all proceeds were donated to a charity associated with the Victoria Breast Unit at the Royal Oldham Hospital.
Those recovered from the hammer-beam roof of Westminster Hall during a period of restoration in the 1920s were found to have been manufactured from a combination of putty and human hair and were dated to the reign of Henry VIII.
In 2012, National Football League (NFL) game officials were suspicious of the San Diego Chargers' use of Gorilla Grip.
Some of the earliest line marking machines were built on a small scale so they could be used by a child, as the "gardener's boy" who was in charge of marking tennis courts on estates in the late 19th century might have been nine or ten years old.
RBs are particularly popular when placing permanent bolts on steep walls with limited features, where other means of temporary protection, such as hooks, traditional camming devices, or slings, are not an option.
The Bachar ladder is a form of rope or metal ladder used as a training device by rock climbers to improve upper body strength.
To protect hamsters, owners may place hamster balls on the lower level of their house, away from any stairs.
A shamiana (Bengali: শামিয়ানা, Urdu: شامیانہ) is a South Asian ceremonial tent, shelter or awning, commonly used for outdoor parties, weddings, feasts etc.
Cycling kits in professional races are usually featured with sponsor logos and advertising, and specific colours and/or patterns signify certain position or a leader in a race.
The Tennis Girl is a British poster of a female tennis player without underwear that has become a British pop icon.
This is intended to protect from cuts and head injuries that can occur from incidental contact in tackles or at rucks.
InfraStar bike is a type of fitness equipment developed in 1980s that integrates the physical activity of stationary cycling with the therapeutic effects of infrared heat therapy.
Creation The photograph was taken by then-30-year-old Martin Elliott in September 1976 and features 18-year-old Fiona Butler (now Walker), his girlfriend at the time.
In 2015, Perschke accused Shell Oil Company to have used his concept of the RedBall project in a global print ad campaign.
On the December 6 edition of professional wrestling TV show TNA Impact, Christopher Daniels and Kazarian wrestled the main event in pink and black Zubaz pants.
Dangers of cricket balls Cricket balls are hard and potentially lethal, so most of today's batters and close fielders often wear protective equipment.
In the UK, Everard Calthrop, a railway engineer and breeder of Arab horses, invented and marketed through his Aerial Patents Company a "British Parachute" and the "Guardian Angel" parachute.
The company was renamed Springbar in 2019 and moved to its current location, in Millcreek, Utah, where the company continues to manufacture many of its Springbar canvas tents by hand.
The Coolflo is a batting helmet designed by Rawlings and first put into regular use during the 2006 Major League Baseball season.
ball nut A type of protection device consisting of a nut and a movable ball used for very small thin cracks.
FieldTurf, AstroTurf's chief competitor since the early 2000s, marketed a product of tall-pile polyethylene turf with infill, meant to mimic natural grass more than the older products.
The main difference is that a splitboard will have an additional metal edge (down the center of the board) for extra grip in ski mode.
RBs are used almost exclusively in bolting and cleaning new lines, often steep limestone, which is soft enough to be drilled with relative ease, and is particularly difficult to bolt without some load bearing anchor.
According to Law 4 (Players' Equipment), the basic equipment required for all players consists of five items: a shirt (also known as a jersey), shorts, socks (also known as stockings), footwear, and shin pads.
Immediate first aid can help prevent complications, reduce the severity of injuries, and improve outcomes while awaiting professional medical assistance.
RBs are designed for use in bolting new sport climbing routes, setting temporary anchors on traditional routes, and on back-country expeditions where abandoning gear or placing permanent gear is not optimal.
To ride it, the rider sits on the skid and raises their legs while sledding downhill, akin to a bum slider.
Before 2006, Voile was the dominant splitboarding company, selling the early track system binding that was a precursor to the modern style split specific binding and puck systems.
Sami's tests with homemade wing prototypes and downhill skiis on the ice outside Helsinki were mainly inspired by James Drake´s handheld wing for use on water (1981).
These shorts had the famous wild patterns at the bottom of the garment while the rest of the garment displayed the name and logo of a sport team and the Zubaz name.
However, in recent years in particular, many cricket teams, particularly for limited overs cricket have opted to wear baseball caps, rather than traditional cricket caps, but the style is still quite popular for first-class cricket teams, as well as Test cricket sides.
Major League Baseball in 2001 approved the use of Gorilla Gold in major and minor league games as an alternative to pine tar.
In popular culture A running gag in The Venture Bros., beginning with the episode "Hate Floats", is Dr.
Planning According to Tom Brown, the order of survival is shelter (including clothing), water, fire, and food.
In a 1993 survey in Inside Sports magazine, Zubaz finished third in the voting for "Worst Thing to Happen in Sports" that year.
It was founded in Beveren-Roeselare (Belgium) in 1928 by the brothers-in-law Valler Snauwaert and Eugeen Depla.
Ascenders Ascenders (also called "jumars" or "crolls" after popular brands) are mechanical devices to enable a climber to move up a fixed rope, which is a static rope that is hanging from a fixed anchor.
Dwork is co-author and editor of The Deadhead's Taping Compendium, an award-winning, three-volume encyclopedia of the Grateful Dead's music on tape.
Uses The volume of the reservoir and the pack carrying it can vary widely depending on the purpose of the hydration pack.
Although Zubaz began as a line of shorts, the brand was extended into long pants, caps, shirts, and even diapers.
Recreational variations Minnesota Vikings kicker Fred Cox, during his NFL career, is credited with developing an all-polyurethane foam football, which he sold to Nerf.
The official color was not necessarily adopted by all practitioners, as evidenced throughout 1973-1990 when many practitioners under a separate development of Vovinam, the "Viet Vo Dao Federation," wore black uniforms.
However, many hunter–gatherer societies and cultures surviving through subsistence agriculture begin teaching babies to use sharp tools, including machetes, before their first birthdays.
This represents 60 contact hours in various forms of educational activities that help in the continuous improvement, development, and growth of the association.
By 1990, however, after further meetings between councils, indigo had been adopted by the majority of Vovinam practitioners in and outside of Vietnam.
It could present an increased risk of elbow and shoulder joint tendon/ligament injury for users who are inexperienced or lack proper pulling mechanics such as poor shoulder range of motion.
They are most commonly marketed to cavers and rope access technicians, and are very light when compared to other descender options.
Pressurized hydration bladders are used in some cases to provide a stream powerful enough to effectively wash with, or the bladder may be suspended from a high place such as a tree branch to employ gravity in generating water pressure.
The company is best known for developing the Happy Nappy system (in Britain, a nappy is a diaper), which comprises waterproof neoprene outer layers with leak-restricting grip and an inner absorbent layer.
They provide moderate coverage from the mid-waist to the area above the knee, somewhat resembling cycling shorts or compression shorts worn by many athletes.
The additional surface area of the Kinder Edition RB provides better friction in these circumstances, and allowed Kinder and others to establish sport climbs in remote areas where variable rock quality necessitated careful bolt placement.
Modern ergometers and even many consumer exercise bikes are fitted with electronic sensors and displays.
Realising the potential of the replica kit market, Admiral brokered a deal with the Football Association in 1974 to produce the first commercially available England shirt that featured a sportswear manufacturers logo.
Snauwaert is an Italian sports equipment manufacturer, focused on tennis and paddle tennis, producing mainly rackets.
Weight Between 5 and 5+1⁄2 ounces (141.75 and 155.92 grams) Material Solid rubber Bounce The ball, when dropped from a height of 72 inches (1.83 meters) must bounce between 43 and 51 inches (1.09 and 1.30 meters).
This was followed later in the war by airborne assaults on a larger scale, such as the Battle of Crete and Operation Market Garden, the latter being the largest airborne military operation ever.
Older balls tend to spin more as the roughness grips the pitch more when the ball bounces, so spin bowlers prefer to use a worn ball, though a ball of about 8–10 overs old is still useful to a spinner as it can get more drift in the air.
It is a custom of Finnish conscripts, especially non-commissioned officers, and officer cadets to carry a decorated and/or engraved commemorative puukko of their military school or training course as a part of their uniform, not unlike a commemorative dagger.
Lighter weight crampons are popular for alpine ski touring where physical demands are generally lower and weight is at a premium.
Whilst they may prevent some cuts and abrasions, such headgear has not been shown to reduce concussive injury.
Ropes and slings Ropes Modern climbing ropes are 50–80 metres (160–260 ft) in length—the longer versions are for multi-pitch climbing—and have a kernmantle construction consisting of a core kern of twisted nylon fibers and an outer sheath mantle of woven colored coarse nylon fibers.
In November 2014, Australia and South Australia batter Phillip Hughes died at the age of 25 at a Sydney hospital after he was hit on the side of the neck by a bouncer bowled by Sean Abbott during a Sheffield Shield game.
External links Section about types of axes is originally based on a Quicksilver Wiki article at the timber framing glossary under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License.
Many sports league or professional sports mandate the provision and usage of protective gear for athletes in the sport.
One aspect that both researches agree on is that there is no difference in activation of upper rectus abdominis and lower rectus abdominis, as it is speculated that the muscle acts as one and cannot be differentiated.
It is important to remember that a Kitewing should always be used with caution, in clear safe areas, and with the proper safety equipment.
The bone strengthening quality of physical exercise is very difficult to assess and monitor due to the great variability of intensity of exercise modes and individual differences in exercise patterns.
Use and certification Type of climbing The rock-climbing equipment needed varies materially depending on the type of rock climbing being undertaken.
Timo Jämsä, Aki Vainionpää, Raija Korpelainen, Erkki Vihriälä and Juhani Leppäluoto (2006) "Effect of daily physical activity on proximal femur".
Microspikes While crampons generally have a solid frame, and large spikes, and may only be attached to a mountaineering boot, stretch-on traction devices — often referred to as "microspikes" — typically consist of flexible rubber or metal chains with more, smaller spikes.
Some descriptions used euphemistically to describe bras for men are chest binders, compression vests or shimmels.
Usage Yoga pants have migrated from the yoga studio to the high street; from the early 2010s, they have increasingly been used as everyday casual wear.
Dwork also holds the world's only Bachelor of Arts degree for studies in Professional Flying Disc Entertainment and Education, awarded by Hampshire College in 1984.
In use certain exercises comprise squeezing the spring by applying force to the handles at each end and certain exercises comprise pulling the two runs of rope apart and again placing the spring under compression.
According to Cosmopolitan, the dresses are appropriate for general daywear and "literally no one would know you just wore it to the gym".
When the separate legs were woven together with a panty that covered the lower torso up to the waist in a single, integrated format, the term pantyhose was coined, since it was a one piece construction of a panty with a pair of separate hose, one for each leg.
The change was implemented in June 2013, and was adopted at the Olympics for the first time in 2016.
Typical uses are for travel, large events, and other situations where these disposable hygiene towels are needed.
It is effective in sports that require good grips, such as American football, baseball, softball, golf, tennis, hockey, and weightlifting.
These pegs can be planted into sand or snow, head outward away from the tent at a 45-degree angle from the ground, with the tent or a guy line attached to the head area.
Other prominent works by Perschke include commissions for various institutions including The Contemporary Art Museum in St.
History Exercise dresses were marketed by the brand Outdoor Voices in 2018 and according to the Wall Street Journal became a "viral hit".
The shorts were then sold to United Artists, who in turn sold to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, who in turn sold these shorts to Ted Turner under Turner Entertainment, and ran these shorts on Turner Classic Movies.
Erik Gustaf Geijer in his History of the Swedes (1832–36) notes that the legend was now limited to the population of Haslidale but had once also been generally believed by the people of Schwyz.
Where Troy Once Stood: The Mystery of Homer"s Iliad and Odyssey Revealed is a 1990 book by Iman Jacob Wilkens that argues that the city of Troy was located in England and that the Trojan War was fought between groups of Celts.
The text was then revised by Ashley Montagu and the revised statement was published in 1951, as well as a book detailing the criticisms in 1952.
The book further suggests that the origins of many religions, including interpretations of the Old Testament of the Bible, are reactions to contact with an alien race.
About a century later, Ptolemy also listed the coastal Oeasso (Οἰασσώ) beside the Pyrénées to the Vascones, together with 15 inland towns, including Pompelon.
In Georgian, the first corresponds to "Ghilghvi" (singular) and "Ghilghvelebi" (plural), which are often found in old Tushin folk poems.
In Greek mythology, Diaprepes (Ancient Greek: Διαπρέπης means "distinguished") was the youngest of the five pairs of twins borne of Poseidon and Cleito in Plato's myth of Atlantis.
It was a gorget stone found in 1917 near Taunton, Massachusetts about five miles upstream from Dighton Rock, known for its mysterious petroglyphs.
The Dorian invasion became connected with the romanticisation of ancient Sparta, and was used to assert a special connection between Prussia and ancient Greece.
The beech argument (German: Buchenargument) is a now mostly outdated argument in Indo-European studies that is in favour of placing the Indo-European Urheimat in an area west of a line connecting Kaliningrad and the Black Sea, based on the current distribution of European beech trees.
These narratives tend to portray a period of submission to the new rulers before which the islanders grew hostile, refusing to herd flocks and till fields as commanded.
It was in the shape of an animal pelt and each side depicted scenes very similar to the Lenape Stone.
When Eikichi and his band do this, the Joker is summoned, then drains all the players but Lisa of their "Ideal Energy" (the essence of hopes and dreams) using a crystal skull.
Ripley's principal opponents; whereas Ripley maintained, as did Vacher de Lapouge, that the European populace comprised three races, Joseph Deniker proposed that the European populace comprised ten races (six primary and four sub-races).
The Delphic Epsilon, which can be found on ancient Greek monuments but also on objects from the Inca civilisation, was established as the symbol of the Epsilon group.
The earliest layer of Greek loanwords was inherited from the variant of Vulgar Latin from which Romanian descends.
"Human biodiversity" (HBD), an alt-right euphemism for scientific racism, was one of the main publishing subjects of Washington Summit Publishers.
Despite this, the Turkic expression persisted long after the Mughal demise in 1857, which the Indian Muslim identity often intertwined to that of Turkic world in some occasions, despite also being very distinctively South Asian in their own.
He explains that sixteenth century map-makers "enlarge(d) … important sections of their charts," such as this bay, hence its exaggerated size.
Other larger ornaments were used for household and decorative tomb and funeral elements which have been identified as key elements of Quimbaya cultural traditions.
He notes that "generation after generation of the elder's of the Kalenjin-speaking people have passed on to the youth the tradition that their ancestors of antiquity migrated to East Africa from Misri".
External links An Early History – African American Mental Health Archived 2011-07-09 at the Wayback Machine
They have been cited by pseudoscientists and reporters in books, popular articles, and many web pages as inexplicable out-of-place artifacts that could only have been manufactured by intelligent beings.
The Davenport Tablets are three inscribed slate tablets found in mounds near Davenport, Iowa on January 10, 1877, and January 30, 1878.
The book details reports and interviews that document the effect of the electroculture process which had not been previously explained scientifically.
Across several papers in the 1960s, Fell proposed a four-subphylum system for Echinodermata (Crinozoa, Homalozoa, Asterozoa, and Echinozoa) to replace the long-standing two-subphylum system (Pelmatozoa and Eleutherozoa).
In popular culture Prapaatha, a 2010 Indian Kannada-language film by Suchendra Prasad, has a story line where a young man tries to find out works of Subbaraya Shastry.
Sarich, Emeritus Professor of Anthropology at the University of California, Berkeley, and Frank Miele, senior editor of Skeptic Magazine, argue for the reality of race, a view rejected by modern science.
[...] Mr Josyer showed some types of designs and drawings of a helicopter-type cargo-loading plane, specially meant for carrying combustibles and ammunition; passenger aircraft carrying 400 to 500 persons; and double- and triple-decked aircraft.
There have been many legends over the centuries of descent from the Ten Lost Tribes after groups converted to Christianity and Islam.
In the legend, the Kisii traveled south in the company of the Kuria, the Maragoli, Bukusu, and Meru.
Typically, these shales lie upon a 3–6 m (9.8–19.7 ft) thick bed of organic carbon-poor sandstone that separates them from the underlying volcanic rocks.
Still, antiquization seems to effectively address the negative sentiments of some Macedonians and their feeling of being rejected.
Both contemporary critics and later biographers have argued that some or all of these foreign visits were fictitious, and that she spent this period in Europe.
However, the scale of the construction would have been difficult to conceal, so an innocent explanation is most plausible.
The Lemurians were around fifteen feet tall, with brown skins and flat faces, no foreheads and prominent jaws.
Most notably there are numerous examples of Akkadian loanwords in both ancient and modern Aramaic languages.
Wilkins, in his book Strange Mysteries of Time and Space, wrote about the Mary Celeste, disappearances at Glastenbury Mountain, medieval mysteries, disappearing aircraft, ships, and people, including Ambrose Bierce and the fictitious David Lang disappearance, claimed by him to be factual.
These brothers mixed the entrails of a child into the god's meal, whereupon the enraged Zeus threw the meal over the table.
Theory Following studies in Iceland from 1825 to 1827, Rudolf Keyser was appointed as a docent at the Royal Frederick University in Christiania, Norway in 1828.
This narrative bears notable similarities to the Greek myth of Prometheus and the Georgian myth of Amirani.
Art Tracy's artworks relate to techniques of combining traditional paintbrushing and finger-painting with modern airbrushing.
capraria (the island of goats) and canaria (the island of dogs) are often found on maps separately from the Canary Islands (e.g.
Neither the Etruscan material culture or language has provided scholars with conclusive evidence regarding the Etruscans as one of the Sea Peoples.
He gained much of his fortune from a card game session, and it was a card of spades that formed his winning hand.
The old Normanist assumption was that the Scandinavians introduced civilization to their Slavic subjects, but the number of Norsemen was relatively small compared to the number of Slavs and non-Slavs.
Neuhoff, Juergen, and Stan Fox, "Translation of the Los Lunas Inscription" webspage dated 1999, accessed Jan.
Descriptions of the Bimini Road found in various books and articles greatly exaggerate the regularity and rectangularity of the blocks composing these features.
regarded as the fundamental text of Hindutva ideology, presents the "Hindu culture as a self-sufficient culture, not needing any input from other cultures", which is "an unhistorical, narcissistic and false account of India's past".
Cresson also discusses a family dispute over the announcement of the discovery, as they were unwilling to risk a controversy such as had been seen with the faked mastodon pipes in the 1880s.
Mounds are typically constructed in layers, however the arch in this grave indicated that at some point the mound was disrupted.
He was also director of the National Policy Institute and managing editor of The Occidental Quarterly, both heavily funded by William Regnery II.
In 2009, the gallery was renamed to the Craig Tracy Gallery to better clarify that it houses and sells his personal works.
Hence the presence of descendants of the term *bʰāg(ó) in Italic, Germanic, Albanian, Greek and (Indo-)Iranian, and potentially Celtic, Slavic, and Baltic, indicates that this word belonged to the Proto-Indo-European language.
Two media reports (in 2003 and 2004) stated that corrosion of the metal and tests both indicated that an acidic agent such as wine or vinegar was present in the jar, without giving sources for that information.
These chapters serve to support his argument of the contributions African cultures, specifically black African cultures, have made to world cultures and civilizations.
If they are gods, then why can't they have some really divine technology such as intradimensional worm-hole travel, antigravity, starlight propulsion, or black hole bounce rematerializations?
The awakening process claimed to be experienced is described as either a gradual series of realizations over time, or an abrupt and dramatic awakening of consciousness.
Jean-Yves Blondeau (born June 1, 1970), also known as Rollerman, is a French designer who is best known for inventing the 32-wheel roller suit.
Henri Édouard Prosper Breuil (28 February 1877 – 14 August 1961), often referred to as Abbé Breuil (French pronunciation: [abe bʁœj]), was a French Catholic priest, archaeologist, anthropologist, ethnologist and geologist.
The third and final season aired on Vision TV starting from March 22, 2010, and subsequently on History International from November 8, 2010.
Crystal skulls are human skull hardstone carvings made of clear or milky quartz rock, known in art history as "rock crystal".
García suggested that the lost tribes must have reached the Americas from eastern Asia via what is now called the Bering Strait.
Another early editor was Herbert Charles Sanborn, formerly the chair of the department of Philosophy and Psychology at Vanderbilt University from 1921 to 1942.
: que les poètes Homère et Hésiode sont originaires de la Belgique, &c., Gent: De l'imprimerie de P.-F.
Archaeological excavations Between 1991 and 1998, with the agreement of Thor Heyerdahl, multiple excavations of the site by archaeologists of the University of La Laguna (Departamento de Prehistoria, Antropología e Historia Antigua) took place.
Hamitic hypothesis The British explorer John Hanning Speke popularized the ancient Hamitic peregrinations in his publications on his search for the source of the Nile River.
Scott-Elliot located Lemuria in the Pacific Ocean, claiming that it was a gigantic landmass that eventually sank, leaving only small islands.
It claimed that the body of Jesus Christ was reburied in the 12th century on Pech-le-Cardou (Mount Cardou) in Rennes-le-Château.
Many of the original artifacts were chimeras of rearranged or reshaped fragments into further complex and aesthetically provoking designs in hopes to sell better along with the fabrication of entirely new fake artifacts that were created in the modern era to resemble those of the past.
19-27 Ferdinand Vetter, Ueber die Sage von der Herkunft der Schwyzer und Oberhasler aus Schweden und Friesland, Bern 1877 Jakob Bächtold, Die Stretlinger Chronik.
In the book, Bürgin presents electroculture as a more ecologically-friendly alternative to genetic engineering.
Gill is an American anthropologist, and a Professor Emeritus at the University of Wyoming who specializes in skeletal biology.
The Naked Archaeologist is a television series on VisionTV in Canada and History International in the US, that was produced and hosted by the Emmy Award–winning journalist Simcha Jacobovici.
(which differs from the angle seen today or in the third millennium BC, because of the precession of the equinoxes).
This is however conjecture, without support based on any actual archaeological or historical evidence that has been substantiated by research.
[The title track Atlantis is] one of Ra's most epic pieces, which is free or 'space' jazz at its most invigorating.
None of the planes has properties or capabilities of being flown; the geometries are unimaginably horrendous from the point of view of flying; and the principles of propulsion make them resist rather than assist flying.
Many more elaborate discoveries were made in the area around Wyman in Montcalm County, Michigan following Scotford's original discovery.
Synopsis The film begins by introducing the cargo cults established by South Pacific Natives after coming in contact with American planes in World War II.
Included is one of Circleville (Plate v), where some earthworks had been plowed under, but the city's plan had been made to conform to Hopewell circles.
Luo stressed Keevak's relevance for contemporary China, where racial thinking persisted in academic and popular discourse despite being largely abandoned in Western scholarship.
On historical and epigraphic grounds, Gordon regards the Byzantine period as the most likely for the inscription.
Heyerdahl received financial support from his friend the Canarian businessman Fred Olsen, who owns the largest transport company in the Canaries and whose family came to the islands from Norway in the 20th century.
For example, Heather Rockwell of University of Wyoming says "Feder's sardonic wit, amusing personal anecdotes, and rigorous attention to detail makes it essential reading for the aspiring archaeologist." See also Pseudoarchaeology Ronald H.
Despite some claims presented in an assortment of popularizing literature, legends of crystal skulls with mystical powers do not figure in genuine Mesoamerican or other Native American mythologies and spiritual accounts.
In India, they have also attempted to erase references to Muslim figures, such as Akbar the Great, or secular figures, such as Nehru, replacing them with icons such as Shivaji whom they falsely imagine "to have been seeking to establish a Hindu Rashtra in premodernity".
He discovered what looked like a human shoe print with a trilobite under its heel after breaking open a slab.
Russell published a pamphlet, "Prehistoric discoveries in Wayne County, Michigan," in which he argued for their authenticity.
In 1982, David Stewart-Smith, director of restoration at Mystery Hill, conducted an excavation of a megalith found in a stone quarry to the north of the main site.
It has, therefore, been thought that this fossil was intentionally brought back to the camp due to its natural phallic resemblance, which makes it a candidate for being a manuport.
Mythology Diaprepes, along with his nine siblings, became the heads of ten royal houses, each ruling a tenth portion of the island, according to a partition made by Poseidon himself, but all subject to the supreme dynasty of Atlas who was the eldest of the ten.
In the southern wall of the National Autonomous University of Mexico's Central Library, the mural Historical Representation of Culture, created by the artist Juan O'Gorman, portrays a depiction of the Pillars of Hercules as an allusion to the colonial past of Mexico and the house of Charles V.
In 1931, a German-American excavation expedition led by Ernst Kühnel found six more clay vessels in the immediately neighboring Ctesiphon, including three sealed find objects, each with one, three and ten wrapped and sealed bronze rolls.
In a letter to Desert Magazine of Outdoor Southwest, a reader stated that a trained geologist had dated the nodule as at least 500,000 years old.
New Agers look inward." Proponents Advocates of the concept of star people/starseeds include Sheldan Nidle, who founded the Planetary Activation Organization.
Petit was highly critical of the remake, citing the gameplay as "Tedious [and] repetitive", referred to the Rumor system as "dull", and generally felt that the game had not aged well.
After designing the Emperor's Tomb, he used Rongorongo, Sikkimese and Peruvian hieroglyphics to conceal the secret to open it; he believed that only after the peoples of the world reach a certain point of peace and cooperation, they would be able to use joint knowledge and understand it.
Criticisms and revival of past cranial theories in the 20th century After being a main influence of US white nationalists, William Ripley's The Races of Europe (1899) was eventually rewritten in 1939, just before World War II, by Harvard physical anthropologist Carleton S.
Alfred Rosenberg was one of the few in the Nazi hierarchy who advocated a policy designed to encourage anti-Communist opinion among the population of the occupied territories.
This particular case of spalling had created a simulacrum vaguely suggestive of a shoe print." See also Moab Man == References ==
No evidence exists anywhere over the three features of two courses of blocks, or even a single block set squarely atop another.
Swedish professor of anatomy Anders Retzius (1796–1860) first used the cephalic index in physical anthropology to classify ancient human remains found in Europe.
study is haplogroup V the most frequent haplogroup in the Swedish Sami and is present at significantly lower frequencies in Norwegian and Finnish subpopulations.
(2007) found in a modern sample of 86 individuals from Murlo, a small town in southern Tuscany, an unusually high frequency (17.5%) of supposed Near Eastern mtDNA haplogroups, while other Tuscan populations do not show the same striking feature.
The book became the focus of a BBC 2 documentary "The History of a Mystery" shown in September 1996, in which the authors faced difficult questions over their methods and assumptions.
In 2008, the Enigma released a DVD with Rose, directed by Robert Monson, titled Electric Acid Theatre.
Gill was among the scientists who successfully sued the United States in order to gain access to the remains, which had been claimed by the Umatilla and other American Indian tribes under a contested interpretation of the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act.
To emphasize his flamboyant appearance and link him aesthetically to the source of his power, Joker was clad in a strangely colored school uniform.
The use of the 1900, 1910 or 1920 census data sets would have resulted in larger numbers of immigrants from southern and eastern Europe being allowed into the U.S.
Korean A Korean translation was published in June 2016 under the title 황인종의 탄생: 인종적 사유의 역사 (Hwang-injong-ui tansaeng: Injongjeok sayu-ui yeoksa) by Hyeonamsa (현암사).
The transformation began during the Enlightenment with the rise of scientific classification systems.
The peoples of the Iberian Peninsula, who were closest to the real Atlantic islands of the Canaries, Madeira and Azores, and whose seafarers and fishermen may have seen and even visited them, articulated their own tales.
In 2021, two more ancient samples from the Chalcolitich settlement of Grotta La Sassa, in the province of Latina in southern Lazio, were found to be Y-DNA J2a7-Z2397.
Wilkins also wrote about White Gods, writing that a vanished white race had occupied the whole of South America in ancient times.
Euaemon, an Arcadian prince as one of the 50 sons of the impious King Lycaon either by the naiad Cyllene, Nonacris or by unknown woman.
Anthony Snodgrass, Emeritus Professor of Classical Archaeology at the University of Cambridge, has named Wilkens as an example of an "infinitely less-serious" writer.
Along the northwestern frontiers of the province, "Przeworsk" settlements were unearthed at Boinești, Cehăluț, and other places.
The pebble was found in 1925 in a dolomite cave in the Makapan Valley north of Mokopane, South Africa by local school teacher Wilfred Eitzman.
Muller; Gunnar Myrdal, author of An American Dilemma: The Negro Problem and Modern Democracy (1944); Joseph Needham, a biochemist specialist of Chinese science; and geneticist Curt Stern.
References Bibliography Richard Andrews, Paul Schellenberger, The Tomb of God: The Body of Jesus and The Solution To A 2000-year-old Mystery (London: Little, Brown, 1996 ISBN 0-316-87997-5).
The body of beliefs related to the Epsilon Team has been labeled epsilonism, and those who subscribe to it have been labeled epsilonists.
The Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC) said in 2006 that the company had reprinted racist tracts along with books promoting antisemitism and eugenics.
The first three subraces of the Lemurians reproduced by laying eggs, but the fourth subrace, beginning 16½ million years ago, began to reproduce like modern humans.
One prominent Russian example occurred with an anti-Normanist conference in 2002, which was followed by publications on the same theme, and which appears to have been promoted by Russian government policy of the time.
It is just possible that Rich considered "Assyrian" a geographic, rather than ethnic, term since he in a footnote on the same page also referenced the "Christians of Assyria".
Career In this time Spence's interest was sparked in the myth and folklore of Mexico and Central America, resulting in his popularisation of the Mayan Popol Vuh, the sacred book of the Quiché Mayans (1908).
Atlantean and Lemurian races Leadbeater and Scott-Elliot provided much more detail than Blavatsky on the lives of the supposed Atlantean and Lemurian root races.
In 1919, the British-Israel-World Federation (BIWF) was founded in London, and Covenant Publishing was founded in 1922.
These claims were incorporated in the 1993 television documentary The Mystery of the Sphinx, which also mentioned Cayce's prediction about the Hall of Records.
Autosomal DNA Autosomal genetic analyses have found that the Sámi people cluster in a distinct position, shifted away from other Europeans, with a significant proportion of the genome originating from a Neo-Siberian source population, best represented by the Nganasan people.
Life and career He was born Hans Leo Gerd von Haßler zu Roseneckh near Augsburg, he studied literature, music and ancient history.
Interest in the theory resurfaced at the end of the 20th century as increasingly-available DNA testing provided a new line of inquiry.
The book also warns of the dangers of race mixing and the need for white countries to maintain their racial "purity".
Another figure who influenced the concept of the Hall of Records was Ignatius Donnelly, whose pseudohistorical 1882 book Atlantis: The Antediluvian World argued that the fictional civilization of Atlantis, as described by the Greek philosopher Plato, was a real place rather than Plato's invention.
To date, the Enigma has had more than two hundred tattoo artists work on him, with as many as twenty-three tattoos underway at one time.
Subsequently, in 2009, the Greek government prevented the Republic of Macedonia from getting a date on part of the European Union for starting accession talks.
"Magic nails have been preserved in large numbers." The iron nails were used to nail fast the contents.
North Carolina historian Kevan Frazier notes that at the time the speech was written, only about 500 Jewish people lived in North Carolina, so the speech was not motivated by political gain.
Second mummy In 1994, Gill was interviewed about the San Pedro mummy for an episode of the TV show Unsolved Mysteries along with Eugene Bashor, who was seeking evidence of the Nimerigar.
Place names of certainly Slavic, Hungarian and German origin can be found in great number in medieval royal charters pertaining to Banat, Crișana, Maramureș, and Transylvania.
According to Albert Speer, Hitler called it "stuff nobody can understand" and disapproved of its pseudo-religious tone.
Despite evidence which cast doubt on the stone's origin, Mercer came to be an ardent proponent of its authenticity, an argument which he put forth in his 1885 book, The Lenape Stone, or the Indian and the Mammoth.
According to the Anglo-Israelists, these claimed connections would make the British the literal descendants of the Lost Tribes, and thus inheritors of the promises made to the Israelites in the Old Testament.
After the creation of the modern state of Zimbabwe in 1980, Great Zimbabwe has been employed to mirror and legitimise shifting policies of the ruling regime.
The print was cited by creationists and pseudoscience advocates as an out-of-place artifact, but was debunked by palaeontologists as the result of a natural geologic process known as spall formation.
Instituted in 1878, the medal honours any invention, research, publication or other contribution resulting in an important advance in the scientific or technological development of photography or imaging in the widest sense.
In 1893 he married Matilda (Maude) Louise Travers (1859–1929), daughter of Dr Robert Boyle Travers F.R.C.S., of Farsid Lodge, Rostellan, County Cork, Ireland.
Norse people had, according to Keyser, drifted south towards Denmark as well, but here they had been mixed with Goths.
Famitsu, reviewing the original, said that the general gameplay was "quite orthodox", but found the battle system stood out from other RPGs and praised the Rumor system's story and gameplay role.
Salzberg also argues that gene loss combined with sample size effects and evolutionary rate variation provide an alternative, more biologically plausible explanation.
He moved with his mother to New Zealand in the early 1920s after his father, who was a merchant seaman, died in a shipboard fire.
Factors adding to the uncertainty surrounding the piece is that we do not know exactly where in the cave it was found, nor the hominid species the bones are from, nor whether these bones had been brought into the cave by animal scavengers.
have attempted to censor historical references to Hindu practices such as the caste system and untouchability from history textbooks.
In December 1984, Bada came forward and retracted all the dates of bones gleaned from amino acid dating.
Tristram Engelhardt, Jr., and James McCartney, eds, Concepts of Health and Disease in Medicine: Interdisciplinary Perspectives (Boston: Addison-Wesley, 1980).
Chapter 4, Dawson’s Dawn Man: The Hoax at Piltdown In 1912 there was the "discovery" of a supposed missing link in human evolution known as the Piltdown Man or Dawson's Dawn Man.
The races of mankind are markedly different in the nature and also in the extent of their gifts, and the Germanic races belong to the most highly gifted group, the group usually termed Aryan ...
There are also dubious claims that the Vikings traveled further south into parts of what is now the United States.
Shell The shell that the gorget is made of is of a type mostly restricted to the Ohio Valley in the late Prehistoric period.
He received the National Cartoonist Society Newspaper Panel Cartoon Award for his work on the strip in 1976.
People found here speak the Hispanic language, and are believed to have fled here in face of a barbarian invasion of Hispania, in the time of King Roderic, the last to govern Hispania in the era of the Goths.
Gerecke, the Lutheran chaplain who communed with some of the Nuremberg prisoners with Lutheran backgrounds, like Joachim von Ribbentrop and Wilhelm Keitel.
Reception The anthropologist John Alden Mason described Wilkins's research as pseudohistory and noted that most of his statements capable of verification turned out to be incorrect.
Criticism and analysis There are several pseudoscientific theories for the artifact's origin, among them: An ancient advanced civilization (such as Atlantis); Prehistoric ancient astronauts; Human time travelers from the future leaving or losing the artifact during a visit to the past.
Perhaps some day credible proof of other early European contacts will be discovered in the New World.
And thirdly that since the beech tree distribution was limited historically to the regions west of the Eurasian Steppe, this is where this language was spoken.
It defined the concept of race in terms of a population defined by certain anatomical and physiological characteristics diverging from other populations; it gives as examples the Caucasian, Mongoloid, and Negroid races.
With the somewhat limited understanding of the day, the letter said that thunderstones "always present the appearance of having been machined or hand-worked: frequently they come from deep in the earth, embedded in lumps of clay, or even surrounded by solid rock or coral".
Family Diaprepes was the younger brother of Azaes and his older siblings were Atlas and Eumelus, Mneseus and Autochthon, Elasippus and Mestor, and lastly, Elasippus and Mestor.
One of the four compositions which originally featured on Side 1 of the original release was substituted by a different piece for the 1973 reissue, though reusing the same name, "Yucatan".
Sisti, eds, Health, Disease, and Illness: Concepts in Medicine (Washington, D.C.: Georgetown University Press, 2004) ISBN 1-58901-014-0.
The authors then discuss "the horrific prospect of ethnically targeted weapons," which they view as technically feasible but not very likely to be used.
Nazi Germany relied on anthropometric measurements to distinguish Aryans from Jews and many forms of anthropometry were used for the advocacy of eugenics.
As Lemuria was slowly submerged due to volcanic eruptions, the Lemurians colonized the areas surrounding Lemuria, namely Africa, Southern India and the East Indies.
Upon Cabot's return to England, two residents of Bristol – the Italian merchant Raimondo de Soncino (in a letter to the Duke of Milan, dated August 24, 1497) and Bristol merchant John Day (in a letter to Christopher Columbus, written c.
The von Luschan scale was largely abandoned by the early 1950s, replaced with methods utilizing reflectance spectrophotometry.
It is based on Erich von Däniken's book Chariots of the Gods?, a pseudoscientific book that theorizes extraterrestrials impacted early human life and evolution.
Throughout the 1920s, Ripley continued to broaden the scope of his work and his popularity increased greatly.
Introduced by Brad Steiger in his 1976 book Gods of Aquarius, it argues that certain people originated as extraterrestrials and arrived on Earth through birth or as a walk-in to an existing human body.
Crystal skulls have been a popular subject appearing in numerous sci-fi television series, novels, and video games.
However, the authors do not succeed in locating the tomb or evidence relating to it on the mountain itself.
In 2005, a book was published in Spanish by Aparicio and Esteban titled The Pyramids of Güímar: Myth and Reality.
Nusardil (Feast of God) is another religious festival unique to Assyrians and found across all three churches and is usually celebrated in July.
Muslim interpretations of the Quran agree that the Mount is the site of the Temple originally built by Solomon, considered a prophet in Islam, that was later destroyed.
Z Haplogroup Z is found at low frequency in the Sami and Northern Asian populations but is virtually absent in Europe.
The association of the Guanches and the pyramids continues to be elaborated upon both in "Pyramid park" and on its official website.
He too based the theory partly on linguistic traits, and also stated that the two groups had different approaches to liberty versus hierarchy.
Gill suggests that "race denial" can stem from overstatements of the importance of clinal variation among human phenotypes, and from "politically motivated censorship" in the mistaken but "politically correct" belief that "race promotes racism".
However, as several biographers have noted, traders and pilgrims from neighboring lands were able to access Tibet freely, suggesting the possibility that she would have been allowed to enter accompanied by Morya, particularly if she had been mistaken for an Asian.
Kennewick Man Gill has studied Kennewick Man, the skeletal remains of a prehistoric man found near Kennewick in the U.S.
At the prime hill in Kiev, fortifications and other symbols of consolidation and power appear from the 9th century, thus preceding the literary appearance of "Rus" in the middle Dnieper region.
He also identifies similarities in the English names of 14 rivers in Cambridgeshire to those named in the Iliad, including the Cam (Scamander) and Thames (Temese) and added a "reconstruction" of the Trojan battlefield in Cambridgeshire to his 2005 revised edition.
Selected works Ancient Britain The Mysteries of Britain: Secret Rites and Traditions of Ancient Britain Restored, (1905, reprinted 1994) London: Senate.
Seligman, who argued in his book The Races of Africa (1930) that: Apart from relatively late Semitic influence...
Pearlroth spent 52 years as the feature's researcher, finding and verifying unusual facts for Ripley, and after Ripley's death, for the King Features syndicate editors who took over management of the Believe it or Not!
The Erfoud manuport (300,000-200,000 BP) is a 70 mm long and 35 mm wide (at its widest point) fossilized fragment of a cuttlefish resembling naturalistic, life-size, non-erect human phallus.
Although both of those ideas have a basis in reality, phrenology generalizes beyond empirical knowledge in a way that departs from science.
According to Chamberlain, the modern Jew (Homo judaeica) mixes some of the features of the Hittite (H.
Instead, Van Sertima replied to his critics in "his" journal volume published as Early America Revisited (1998).
Thomas lambasted them as "anomalous waifs," which had absolutely no supporting, or contextual, evidence to aide in their authenticity.
During the Soviet Union period, as well as during Ramzan Kadyrov's regime, the Teip-Council system was strongly criticized by the federal and local administration installed in Chechnya and Ingushetia, who viewed it as a destabilizing force and an obstacle to maintaining order.
Its diversity alone makes this is an essential entry in the voluminous Sun Ra catalog.—Lindsay Planer Recording sessions Side one was likely recorded at Sun Studios, New York (the Arkestra's commune), between 1967 and 1969.
Ripley Entertainment airs national television shows, features publications of oddities, and has holdings in a variety of public attractions, including Ripley's Aquarium, Ripley's Believe it or Not!
His assistants are the Chinese Mei Chen (a martial artist with whom he shares a romantic relationship) and Feng Li.
Many of Tracy's artworks includes manual creation of backdrop which complements the required visual.
The show examines biblical stories and tries to find proof for them by exploring the Holy Land looking for archaeological evidence, personal inferences, deductions, and interviews with scholars and experts.
The Michigan Relics are considered to be one of the most elaborate and extensive pseudoarchaeological hoaxes ever perpetrated in American history.
During Easter 1955 Corbu turned the Villa Bethania into a Hotel (called L'hôtel de la Tour) and opened a restaurant located underneath the belvedere that connects the Tour Magdala to the Orangery (Corbu installed the windows).
Breuil visited the excavations associated with Peking Man at Zhoukoudian, China in 1931 and confirmed the presence of stone tools at the site.
While praising Keevak's research as "wonderfully produced" and filled with "loads of new detail," Leibold criticized the book's crucial weakness: its failure to adequately address how these Western racial categories were received and transformed in East Asian intellectual history.
Also prior to Blavatsky, the root races were described by the English theosophist Alfred Percy Sinnett in Esoteric Buddhism (1883).
A family in Cheyenne who saw the program then came forward with a similar mummy, 4 inches (10 cm) high, which had been purchased from a sheepherder in the same region of Wyoming around 1929 and was dubbed "Chiquita".
Mystery of the Crystal Skulls is a 2008 American documentary television film hosted by Lester Holt and starring Jaime Awe and Bill Homann.
However, the results were inconsistent: in many instances, different investigators would give different readings of the same person.
The main body of migrants continued onwards to an island called the "white island" in the middle of what was then an inland sea in what is now the Gobi desert, where they established the "City of the Bridge".
Larsen claimed that Didrik Pining and Hans Pothorst served as captains, while João Vaz Corte-Real and the possibly mythical John Scolvus served as navigators, accompanied by Álvaro Martins.
The Hall of Records is a purported ancient library that is claimed to exist underground near the Great Sphinx of Giza in Egypt.
Two inscriptions were etched into the so-called "sacrificial table": the QAnon slogan WWG1WGA meaning "Where we go one, we go all" and IAMMARK, Russo's Twitter handle.
Film critic Phil Hall said "They don't make films like this any more, and we should be glad for that." The film was criticized for a lack of scientific evidence.
While imprisoned, Aurora has a vision of her mother, who is revealed to have been responsible for Aurora's transporting to Lemuria in order to protect her from Umbra.
The objects included coins, pipes, boxes, figurines and cuneiform tablets that depicted various biblical scenes, including Moses handing out the tablets of the Ten Commandments.
This would, he writes, mimic the ancient extraterrestrial contact von Däniken believes to have occurred on Earth.
Pan-Turkist views on Armenian history Clive Foss, professor of ancient history at the University of Massachusetts Boston, critically notes that in 1982: The Armenian File in the Light of History, Cemal Anadol writes that the Iranian Scythians and Parthians are Turks.
The "Bertillonage" system was based on the finding that several measures of physical features, such as the dimensions of bony structures in the body, remain fairly constant throughout adult life.
See also Inline speed skating Road skating References External links Buggy Rollin Official Website Jean-Yves Blondeau at YouTube
As of 2024, Mankind Quarterly is published by the white nationalist Human Diversity Foundation founded by Danish far-right activist Emil Kirkegaard.
In 2013 the essays, opinions and discussions presented on the colloquium were collected in a book entitled "Portugueses na Austrália", published by Coimbra University Press.
Those who failed to read it, he continued, would be unable to talk intelligently about contemporary sociological and political problems.
However, none of the specimens made available for scientific study have been authenticated as pre-Columbian in origin.
The Monstrosus were mythologic humans which did not appear in the first editions of Systema Naturae.
In art Dante's Inferno In Inferno XXVI Dante Alighieri mentions Ulysses in the pit of the Fraudulent Counsellors and his voyage past the Pillars of Hercules.
According to an interview in the New York Times he received a degree in economics from the University of London, and was an editor and journalist in Israel before moving to New York in 1952.
There was also an Anthropological Society of London founded in 1836 by John Isaac Hawkins which had more to do with phrenology.
This may have produced "an essentially voluntary convergence of groupings in common pursuit of primary produce exchangeable for artefacts from afar".
In 1904 Breuil had recognised that a pair of 13,000-year-old carvings of reindeer at the British Museum were in fact one composition.
The wearer can ride downhill in a variety of positions (upright, prone, supine, on all fours, etc.) at speeds of up to 78 mph (126 km/h).
2500 BC), have inspired speculation and folklore about their origins and purpose since ancient times.
The Book states that Jewish people emigrated to the Americas after the destruction of the first Temple and it also states that Jesus Christ appeared in the Americas and preached to Native Americans after his resurrection.
Reception Mankind Quarterly has been described as a "cornerstone of the scientific racism establishment", a "white supremacist journal", an "infamous racist journal", and "scientific racism's keepers of the flame".
Contents Doreal claimed that the text of the Emerald Tablets of Thoth the Atlantean is the translation of a set of tablets he found in the Great Pyramid of Giza in 1925.
(London); The Watkins Meter (Hereford), 1922 The Old Straight Track: its mounds, beacons, moats, sites, and mark stones, 1925 The Ley Hunter's Manual, 1927 Alfred Watkins's Herefordshire in his own Words and Photographs, Logaston Press, 14 November 2012.
While cuttlefish fossils are not themselves rare in other parts of Morocco, they are not native to the region in which the Erfoud manuport was found.
It particularly disputes the statements of the PBS documentary Race: The Power of an Illusion aired in 2003.
These holes are similar to those found throughout the area, chiseled into boulders by early farmers in the late 19th and early 20th century for the purpose of potentially blasting the rock.
Publisher The Mankind Quarterly was published by the Ulster Institute for Social Research, which was presided over by Richard Lynn until his death in 2023.
Critique Arguments made by Hancock, Bauval, Anthony West and others concerning the significance of the proposed correlations have been described as a form of pseudoarchaeology.
Gill argues that "we can often function within systems that we do not believe in": Categories can have practical utility, even if they also seem conceptually problematic.
He later wrote children's plays which he became most famous for and was a radio speaker in which he produced plays (Radio drama).
Flight The narratives concerning the flight from Mbwaa, more so those that deal with the immediate escape also bear remarkable similarity to Osório's account.
The western release did suffer a few content cuts: namely, the ability to create custom quests in the Climax Theater and additional DLC episodes for the Climax Theater that included several former Persona and Shin Megami Tensei settings.
Influenced by ancient Egyptian texts and Lovecraftian stories about part-reptilian civilizations emerging from ancient Egypt-like ruins, it deals with Atlantis, an ancient race of serpent-headed men, alchemy, and a variety of other topics.
He argues that to get to the location of the stone would have required whoever inscribed it to have "stopped along the way, encamped, eaten food, broken things, disposed of trash, performed rituals, and so on.
1427, July 1932 Home media A 2-DVD release featuring 24 of these theatrical shorts is available in the United States beginning March 16, 2010, from Warner Home Video, through their Warner Archive manufacture-on-demand program.
The Enigma (born Paul Lawrence) is an American sideshow performer, actor, and musician who has undergone extensive body modification, including horn implants, ear reshaping, multiple body piercings, and a full-body jigsaw-puzzle tattoo.
The site contains a manufactured spring to which artefacts of a range of ages - Bronze Age to Georgian - have been added to give it the semblance of being an important ritual centre.
Spence was a Fellow of the Royal Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland, and vice-president of the Scottish Anthropological and Folklore Society.
For many ages Lemuria was ruled by the Queen of Light until one night when she mysteriously vanished.
Background The book Emerald Tablets of Thoth the Atlantean was authored in the wake of the Theosophical movement and the rising popularity of the fictional tales of H.
Cartwright, "Report on the Diseases and Physical Peculiarities of the Negro Race", The New Orleans Medical and Surgical Journal 1851:691–715 (May).
The researchers wrote a systematic rebuttal of Van Sertima's claims, stating that Van Sertima's "proposal was without foundation" in claiming African diffusion as responsible for prehistoric Olmec culture (in present-day Mexico).
must realize that our race problem here in the United States is only a phase of a race issue that the whole world confronts." The anthropologist Franz Boas criticised the scientific racism presented and advocated in The Rising Tide of Color, and U.S.
Release The film was re-edited and dubbed into English by Sunn Classic Pictures for release in the United States in 1973.
Patriarch Philoxenus I Nemrud and his cousin, the priest Nebuchadnezzar, had names that harkened back to the ancient Assyrian and Babylonian kings.
What we did not see was variations that would be consistent with something that was several hundred years old.
No amount of culture, nor generations of training amid civilization, could raise such human specimens as the Bushmen, the Veddhas of Ceylon, and some African tribes, to the same intellectual level as the Aryans, the Semites, and the Turanians so called.
Nazi propaganda was able to continue its baleful work unopposed by the authority of an international organisation.
Ernst Haeckel (1834–1919) became famous for his now outdated "recapitulation theory", according to which each individual mirrored the evolution of the whole species during his life.
These references to inscriptions by Corbu inspired two documents of unknown provenance called Recherches de Mons.
High-ranking PLO and Palestinian government officials demanded that Guterres recant this claim and submit an apology to the Palestinian people.
Feder also discusses Hancock's claims that his alleged civilization was wiped out by a comet or asteroid impact as discussed in the Younger Dryas impact hypothesis, noting that evidence of non-advanced cultures has been found.
From 1996 to 2002, Bürgin studied German literature, folklore, musicology, media studies and sociology at the University of Basel.
Temple denial is the claim that the successive Temples in Jerusalem either did not exist or they did exist but were not constructed on the site of the Temple Mount.
In 1989 lawyers Monroe Oppenheimer and Willard Wirtz wrote an article based on opinions of academic archaeologists and linguists to dispute that the inscription is written in Ogham script.
Wilkens writes that, after being orally transmitted for about four centuries, the poems were translated and written down in Greek around 750 BC.
He created a "Special Task Force for Music" (Sonderstab Musik) to collect the best musical instruments and scores for use in a university to be built in Hitler's home town of Linz, Austria.
According to some writers, Sitchin's ideas, along with those of Erich von Däniken, may have influenced the beliefs of the religious sect of Raëlism, and writer Mark Pilkington sees the mythology of Japan's Pana Wave religious group as rooted in Sitchin's The 12th Planet and its sequels.
External links Von Luschan's Chromatic Scale (in Italian) (at bottom) and other anthropometric instruments at the Natural History Museum of Florence
Corbu was interred in a burial vault alongside his wife (who died in 1966) in the cemetery of Rennes-le-Château.
Many phrenologists who came to South Africa, or took example from the native people there, would use findings to fuel more racist implications of the pseudoscience.
Awards The episode "A Nabatean by Any Other Name" won the Special Jury Prize at the 8th International Archaeological Film Festival in Brussels.
Etterlin presents the three Waldstätten as representing three different stocks or races, the people of Schwyz as the most recent immigrants (from Sweden), the people of Uri representing the original "Goths and Huns", and the people of Unterwalden representing "the Romans".
This motivation would be only an aesthetic one and would not modify in any rate the fundamental motivation (agriculture) and date of construction.
Their purpose in founding the society was "to swing London opinion during the [American Civil] war." Hunt and Hotze put pro-slavery pseudoscience into the Anthropological Society library, "bought journalists, printed and distributed thousands of pamphlets,...
The film is about crystal skulls, hardstone carvings of human skulls whose alleged finders have claimed are pre-Columbian Mesoamerican artifacts.
Galton also founded psychometrics, the science of measuring mental faculties, and differential psychology, a branch of psychology concerned with psychological differences between people rather than common traits.
Most of the carvings have now been returned to Zimbabwe, but one remains at Rhodes' old home, Groote Schuur, in Cape Town.
In his book Secret Cities of Old South America he had taken material from Madame Blavatsky's The Secret Doctrine.
The Basques have therefore long been supposed to be a remnant of a pre-Indo-European population of Europe.
Philip Monson's Kingdom Bible School during the 1930s; Monson taught British Israelism and some of the racial teachings which Swift would later reformulate into Christian Identity theology.
The theory on immigration to Norway (Norwegian: innvandringsteorien) refers to an outdated theory on the origin of the Norwegian people.
Their initial ideas regarding the alignment of the Giza pyramids with Orion: "...the three pyramids were a terrestrial map of the three stars of Orion's belt" are later joined with speculation about the age of the Great Sphinx.
Nicolás Palacios After the War of the Pacific (1879–83) there was a rise of racial and national superiority ideas among the Chilean ruling class.
Published works Noahs Weg zum Amazonas, (1976) Later printed as Lost Survivors of the Deluge (1980) ISBN 0-451-08365-2 Rätselhaftes Wissen, 1977 Wenn die Erde kippt, 1981 Welt ohne Notausgang, 1984 Der Menschen törichte Angst vor der Zukunft, 1987 == References ==
In Greek mythology, Euaemon or Euaimon (Ancient Greek: Εὐαίμων) may refer to the following personages and a place: Euaemon, one of the ten sons of Poseidon and Cleito in Plato's myth of Atlantis.
George Francis Carter (April 6, 1912 – March 16, 2004) was an American professor of geography who taught at Johns Hopkins University and later Texas A&M University.
Schiller's William Tell (1804) makes reference to the legend (act 2, scene 2), in the voice of Stauffacher.
The Los Lunas Decalogue Stone is a hoax associated with a large boulder on the side of Hidden Mountain, near Los Lunas, New Mexico, about 35 miles (56 km) south of Albuquerque, that bears a nine-line inscription carved into a flat panel.
Genuine effigy pipes are a testament to the creative abilities of the ancient Native American Indians, but their counterfeits are of poor quality.
Archaeological career Atwater is known as one of the first researchers to undertake a serious study of the prehistoric Adena and Hopewell culture earthworks, and their associated artisan artifacts found throughout the Ohio Valley.
In 2008, the Finnish linguist Kalevi Wiik proposed that the current Basque language is the remainder of a group of "Basque languages" that were spoken in the Paleolithic throughout western Europe and that retreated with the progress of the Indo-European languages.
They appeared in a large sailing vessel that landed on the mainland, opposite the island's western shore.
Shapiro of the American Museum of Natural History in the late 1940s and by Paul Martin of the Field Museum in 1950 concluded that it was an anencephalic infant; the appearance of a miniature adult was the result of the deformed head.
By doing so, he connected the Atlantic Ocean to the Mediterranean Sea and formed the Strait of Gibraltar.
External links Publications by and about Luc Bürgin in the catalogue Helveticat of the Swiss National Library Literature by and about Luc Bürgin in the German National Library catalogue Autor und Werke www.mysteries-magazin.com www.urzeit-code.com
They claim to channel human lifeforms and suffer helplessness and total amnesia concerning their identity, origins and life-purpose.
Interestingly, both Buffon and Blumenbach believed that the degeneration could be reversed if proper environmental control was taken, and that all contemporary forms of man could revert to the original white race.
He employed a large staff of researchers, artists, translators, and secretaries to handle a deluge of suggestions for new oddities to report – and he traveled the world in search of curiosities and expanded his media to include radio and Hollywood.
The use of the Hasli legendin Swedish and Swiss history during the 19th century, Karlstad 2014 Werner Meyer, ‘Die Alpen als Migrationsraum im Mittelalter.
Great Zimbabwe and surrounding sites were looted by European antiquarians between the 1890s and 1920s.
Despite Spence's erudition and the width of his reading, the conclusions he reached, avoiding peer-reviewed journals, have been almost universally rejected by mainstream scholarship.
Helena" (6 February 2006) "Who Wrote the Bible?" (13 February 2006) "Where is Mount Sinai?" (20 February 2006) "The Real Mount Sinai" (27 February 2006) Season 2 (2008) "The Would-be Messiah" (16 May 2008) "The Search for St.
A review in Western Folklore claimed that Wilkins's Mysteries of Ancient South America reads like a science fiction book owing to its pseudohistoric claims.
The most widespread accusation used in the repression of educated Tatars and other Turkic peoples during the 1930s was that of pan-Turkism.
Carter's theory that ancient people visited the New World by boat is possible, but there is no reasonable evidence to support it.
Other organisations In 1873, Richard Burton and others founded a breakaway London Anthropological Society which for several years published a journal Anthropologia.
The program labels the objects as Tolima "jets", but they are also similar to local fish, such as flying fish or possibly the sucker-nosed catfish.
He is widely known as the expert judge and the producer of Skin Wars, a bodypainting reality competition which aired on the Game Show Network between 2014 and 2016.
These elements of Fadiman's narrative bear similarity to Osório's account of The Battle of Brava (1507).
Supporting this theory are the two holes drilled into the stone which would have enabled it to be worn about the neck.
Scientists also question the 25-year delay in bringing the find forward, for which Cresson did not have a convincing explanation.
Not all were actually used, and there are many such examples, none of which have been shown to be of medieval or earlier Viking origin.
Natural pavements composed of stone blocks, which often are far more rectangular and consistent in size than the blocks composing the Bimini Road, created by orthogonal and other jointing within sedimentary rocks, including beachrock, are quite common and found throughout the world.
Beliefs Steiger described "Star People" in his 1976 book on contactees as "humans who come from a special gene pool linked to visits by extraterrestrials".
L'Ingenieur en chef Ernest Cros; entreprises dans la Haute Vallée de l'Aude, surtout durant les années 1920 à 1943, commonly called "The Cros Report" (one of them is said to have originated on Corbu's typewriter, the other is attributed to René Chesa).
The Makapansgat pebble cannot be seen as art if a usual definition of the term is used, as the object was found and not made.
But put into that community a number of immigrants, inferior mentally, socially, and economically, and the natives are unwilling to have their children associate with them in work or social life.
The purpose of the salting remains obscure, but it may have been inspired by the construction of folly outbuildings "in the style of" ancient religious centres by a mid-19th century owner of the site.
These propositions and other theories are used to support the overall belief in an advanced and ancient, but now vanished, global progenitor civilization.
Bactrian origin The Cambridge History of Iran: Volume 2 also states the Bactrian tribes to be ancestors of Pashtuns.
The argument, as summarised by Friedrich and Mallory goes that the Indo-European term *bʰāg(ó) most probably refers to the beech tree.
Museums, Ripley's Haunted Adventure, Ripley's Mini-Golf and Arcade, Ripley's Moving Theater, Ripley's Sightseeing Trains, Guinness World Records Attractions, and Louis Tussaud's Wax Museums.
The following year, 2002, marked the first meeting of CONAGO at which the governors of all 31 states attended.
Since 1982, the act can only be amended in Canada under the amending formula set out in the Constitution Act, 1982.
Many of the former functions of the central government were instead placed under the jurisdiction of the two national governments.
One of the first people to create an intellectual foundation for Belgian nationalism was the Walloon historian Henri Pirenne, who argued for the existence of a distinct Belgian nation in his book series Histoire de Belgique.
The first simultaneous census was held across Australia in 1881 as part of the Census of the British Empire.
The government of Sagasta did not oppose this announcement, permitting the restoration of the monarchy.
Bibliography Vogt, Gustav: "Revision der Lehre von den eidgenössischen Konkordaten", in: Revue de la Société des juristes bernois, 1, 1864, pp.
In May 2007, upon a change of the Belgian Constitution, the court was renamed Constitutional Court as this name is more in keeping with the actual jurisdiction of the court.
However, despite a common enemy, Czechoslovakia–Poland relations were less than friendly because of Polish–Czechoslovak border conflicts.
The Soviet of the Republic was established in 1989, as one of the chambers of the formerly unicameral Supreme Soviet, and elected in 1990.
Famine, such as that of 1983–1985, reliance on foreign aid, and the decline of the world communist movement, undermined the Derg/PDRE administrations.
Salmerón, unlike Pi, made it known he was willing to suppress rebellious cantons with force if necessary.
The 1999 constitutional revision retained the traditional distinction, on the request of the six cantonal governments, as a way to mark the historic association of the half-cantons to each other.
Cheng "The United States of China: How business is moving Taipei and Beijing together" - Asiaweek, July 6, 2001 Davis, Michael C.
Historically, the state of Jammu and Kashmir was accorded a status different from other States owing to an explicitly temporary provision of the Indian Constitution namely Article 370 (which was revoked by the Parliament in 2019).
Reichsrat deputies were members or representatives of the state ministries, and were bound by the instructions of their respective state governments.
References External links Breaking Point at IMDb [1] Breaking Point (2005) Pt.1 [2] Breaking Point (2005) Pt.
It was later qualified by Stephen J that it was necessary that the treaty at the very least deals with an area of international concern.
It is also called Butterfly Agreement (Dutch: Vlinderakkoord; French: Accord papillon), referring to the bow tie which Elio Di Rupo nearly always wears.
But it is a distinction adopted by the Constitution and it must be observed however much inter-dependence may now exist between the two divisions of trade and commerce which the Constitution thus distinguishes.
Salzburg is coterminous with the former Austro-Hungarian Duchy of Salzburg (the former Archbishopric).
State government has no role in implementing the matters falling in Union List unless mutually agreed upon per Article 258.
Higgins J found that the plaintiffs were not entitled to relief for procedural reasons, but expressed doubt as to whether the immigration power should be construed so widely, noting the distinction between a law with respect to immigration and one with respect to immigrants.
That approach followed the example of the Legislative Council of the Province of Canada, where the two sections, Canada East and Canada West, each had twenty-four seats.
It was the product of extensive negotiations between the provinces of British North America at the Charlottetown Conference in 1864, the Quebec Conference in 1864, and the London Conference in 1866.
The latter certainly lost importance with the promulgation of the Swiss Federal Constitution, but continued to be authorized (Article 7, paragraph 2 of the 1848 constitution and Article 48 of the 1999 constitution) and remained common practice.
The Administration of Justice in the Province, including the Constitution, Maintenance, and Organization of Provincial Courts, both of Civil and of Criminal Jurisdiction, and including Procedure in Civil Matters in those Courts.
Since the initial senators had been appointed in 1867, section 127 was no longer needed and was repealed.
In 1977 the Progressive Federal Party was started, which advocated power-sharing through a federal constitution.
Castriciones succeeded Hinlo as party president when the latter decided to run for senator in the 2019 elections.
It met to debate and co-ordinate government activities between the federal and state or territorial governments and between the state and territorial governments themselves as well as issues affecting local government.
Composition Parties involved in government are shaded; parties leading governments are indicated in bold.
Beginning with Guangdong as a model state, he wanted to organize a "United States of China in the manner of the American experience" through negotiation with federalists from all parts of the country.
The provincial power to regulate security interests under the property and civil-rights power will be displaced by security interests created under a federal head of power – most notably under the banking power – but only to the extent that federal law has covered the field.
There is no bright line test as to what falls within the area of criminal procedure, as Dickson J conceded in Di Iorio v Warden of the Montreal Jail: The phrase "criminal procedure" does not lend itself to precise definition.
The Sixth Schedule to the Constitution of India provides measures of autonomy and self-governance to the Scheduled Tribes in the hill regions of Northeast India.
Related provisions Section 92(13) gives the provinces exclusive jurisdiction over property and civil rights.
See also National Cabinet Council of Australian Governments Council of the Federation References External links CAF
His oratory was crushing: Francisco Silvela said that in his speeches, Salmerón only used one weapon—artillery.
This power has become known as "the corporations power", the extent of which has been the subject of numerous judicial cases.
Only since the early 2000s has the number of cases of imposition of President's rule has been drastically reduced.
Beneš's support for the Soviet Union went so far that during his 1943 visit to the US, he argued that the Soviet Union would never be a threat to either Czechoslovakia or Poland.
1993: Fourth state reform The fourth state reform is called the "Sint-Michiels agreement" and took place in 1993 under Prime Minister Jean-Luc Dehaene.
The Anti-Federalists thus became recognized as an influential group among the Founding Fathers of the United States.
Barbuda’s secession request The government is taking the unprecedented step of presenting the matter to the Parliament after it received a letter from the Barbuda Council requesting that discussions commence on the separation of Barbuda from Antigua.
Thus, when Sikorski approached Beneš and proposed discussions over a future Polish-Czechoslovak federation in 1939, aiming to create a stronger postwar Poland and Czechoslovakia, Beneš's response was lukewarm at best, as he was not interested in strengthening Poland.
92(14) that which gives those words much of their substance—the element of "criminal justice." In R v Hauser, Spence J later gave a more succinct explanation: Criminal procedure, ...
Secondly, the Court extended that proposition to temporary immigrants who did not intend to settle in Australia.
Four governorates, Erbil, Sulaymaniyah, Halabja and Duhok, constitute the semi-autonomous Kurdistan Region.
The Reich government has passed the following law, which is hereby promulgated: § 1 (1) The Reichsrat is dissolved.
The conference is particularly important for the fiscal redistribution from the federal government to the states and the "eternal construction" reform of the federal states.
The constitution was amended to remove control of electoral constituencies, including the number allocated to each state, from the Electoral Commission.
The Austrian provincial parliaments are the unicameral legislatures of the nine Austrian provinces, according to the Constitution of Austria deciding in all matters unless explicitly subject of federal legislation.
Iraq consists of 19 governorates (Arabic: محافظة, romanized: muḥāfażah; Kurdish: پارێزگا, romanized: parêzgeh), also known as "provinces".
Manuel Blanco Encalada took office as president on 6 July, two days after the first session of Congress.
On 21 July, a force of 2,000 left Cartagena and took Lorca by 25 July before moving on to the regional capital of Murcia.
History Mediation period (1803–1848) The Act of Mediation of 1803 marked the beginning of intercantonal concordats in Switzerland.
The Flemish nationalist party New Flemish Alliance, which became the largest after the 2010 elections, was notably not part of the agreement nor of the government coalition.
Hearings on the definition of a First Nations child for Jordan's Principle were held March 27–28, 2019, and a ruling (2020 CHRT 20) was issued in July 2020.
The states and circuit are proposed to have greater regional autonomy, similar to the United Kingdom.
On 21 September 1993 the Soviet of Nationalities was disbanded by President of Russia, together with the Supreme Soviet and the Congress of People's Deputies.
Article 118 Article 118 of the constitution of Iraq provided that no new region may be created before the Iraqi National Assembly has passed a law that provides the procedures for forming the region.
Generally also a representative of the federal government - the chancellor or a federal minister - attend the conference.
not government-sponsored) constitutional drafts that sprang from the Freedom and People's Rights Movement in the 1880s.
Hence, the next logical step in the relentless Nazi diminishment of the states was the elimination of the Reichsrat altogether.
The Federalist Society was founded in 1982 by a group of students from Yale Law School, Harvard Law School, and the University of Chicago Law School with the aim of challenging liberal or left-wing ideology within elite American law schools and universities.
After Adolf Hitler became Reich Chancellor on 30 January 1933, he initiated the process of Gleichschaltung (coordination) to assume control of all aspects of the German government and society.
Section 51(xxix) was amended a number of times in the Constitutional Conventions that debated the draft Constitution in the 1890s.
The Military Government appointed a Constitution Commission in February 1960 which framed the 1962 Constitution.
Still others believed that while the national government under the Articles was too weak, the national government under the Constitution would be too strong.
The essence of the conservative position is that there is no legal difference between considering race or gender for purposes of exclusion and considering race or gender for purposes of inclusion.
The judges in Seas and Submerged Lands case (1975) differed as to whether the "external affairs" power entitled the Commonwealth to assert its sovereignty over Australia's territorial sea, though a majority held that it did.
In a series of political battles and court cases from 1872 to 1896, Mowat reversed Macdonald's early victories and entrenched the co-ordinated sovereignty which he saw in the Quebec Resolutions.
Membership of the CCI consists of the following: See also Ministry of Inter Provincial Coordination Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution of Pakistan Federalism in Pakistan Constitution of Pakistan Inter-State Commission Inter-State Council References External links Official website
Pending a full hearing on the matter, the Tribunal ordered Canada to extend Jordan's Principle to First Nations children without Indian Act status who live off-reserve but who are recognized by their Nation, and who have urgent and/or life-threatening needs.
Such a judgement, however, has great moral value and will force the parliament which made the targeted law, decree or ordinance in question to amend it.
Thereafter, the Governor General, convened the Second Constituent Assembly in May 1955, which framed and passed the first Constitution of Pakistan on 29 February 1956.
The constitutional law revision, approved by an absolute majority of the members of the Italian Parliament, according to the provisions of art.
Elections are held every three years for one half of the Senate and each Senator has a term of six years.
Several decades later, in 1974, the Mahlabatini Declaration of Faith, which stressed the federal concept, was signed.
Finland The Diet of Finland, which was created when the country was ceded from Sweden to Russia in 1809, was called lantdag in Swedish until 1906 when it was replaced by the unicameral Parliament of Finland.
Section 98 of the Act provides that the judges of the courts of Quebec must be appointed from the bar of that province.
It insists on restoring total sovereignty to the level of the Belgian state by reverting Belgium to a unitary state, after decades of state structure reforms that made Belgium a federal state since the 1970s.
Therefore, the representatives primarily defended class interests, and decisions were based on a class-based electoral system.
Legislators from the Iraqi Accord Front, Sadrist Movement and Islamic Virtue Party all opposed the bill.
The party is allied with the United Progressive Party, being part of its coalition government between 2004 and 2014.
No act of Sabor dethroned King Karl I, nor did it acknowledge the entering in a state union with Serbia, which is today mentioned in the preamble of the Constitution of Croatia.
Beyond this, they are fully autonomous: they enact their own constitutions, freely organize their local governments, and own and manage their natural and financial resources.
The "Yes-side" Consisted of the individuals of the Quebec population in favor of separating from Canada.
(The other two grounds concerned federal judicial power and executive power.) The High Court dismissed all five grounds.
The Saskatchewan Court of Appeal ruled a federal and provincial Act ultra vires, voiding both as an attempt by the province to vest powers in parliament unauthorized by the BNA Act.
Scott argued that by the nature of the provision, to create federal uniform jurisdiction, it should be read to include all provinces added to Confederation after 1867.
The Australian Bureau of Statistics is the Commonwealth agency responsible for census and statistics.
The anniversary of this agreement, which promised autonomy to ethnic minorities, is celebrated annually as Union Day.
On the report of the Governor of the State that the State's constitutional machinery or legislature fails to abide by Constitutional norms.
The organization, known by the acronym CONAGO, was established in 2001 with a meeting of 20 governors in Mazatlan.
After seceding for a decade, Buenos Aires Province accepted the 1853 Constitution of Argentina in 1861, and its capital city was made a federal territory in 1880.
Administration of justice This power entitles the provinces to establish police forces, prosecution services, penitentiaries, parole services, and ancillary agencies associated with the administration of criminal justice in the province.
A law from 1862 designated as national territories those territories under federal control but outside the frontiers of the provinces.
When Congress is in recess and thus unable to intervene, the President is entitled to decree such intervention, but this executive order is subject to Congressional override upon the Houses' immediate reassembly.
The plaintiffs contended that s 8A was not authorised by s 51(xxvii) of the Constitution on five grounds, three of which concerned the content of the migration power.
Yahya Khan assured Bengalis that this was only a procedural formality and necessary for the democratisation of the country.
'circuit and state system') is a proposal to organize Japan into one circuit (dō) of Hokkaido and several new states (shū) that are each a combination of several prefectures.
See also List of amendments of the Constitution of India (refer amendments 5, 7 & 18 for Article 3) List of Indian federal legislation Constituent Assembly of India References External links Supreme court verdict on Non-obstante clause
The group's leader, National Commission on Muslim Filipinos commissioner Abubakar Mangelen, who claims to be the true chairman of PFP, called Marcos' nomination "invalid and void", claiming that many party officers were not consulted or informed about it.
Today, the political parties which advocate for a federal system in South Africa, are the Democratic Alliance (successors of the New National Party) and the Freedom Front Plus.
It is only because the Commerce Clause does not authorize such a command that it is necessary to reach the taxing power question.
Prime Minister Ismail Sabri Yaakob agreed to increase parliamentary representation for Sabah and Sarawak to 35% (up from 25%), however this did not occur before the next national election.
The electoral system of some states also includes a basic mandate clause which allows parties to be taken into account in the proportional distribution of seats regardless of the 5%-threshold if they win a certain number of constituencies.
The Parliament of Canada exercises authority over these three matters under section 91(29), which states: 29.
Subsequent pronouncements by the Supreme Court in Jharkhand and other states have further limited the scope for misuse of Article 356.
Speaker of Parliament On 20 August 2012, former Somali National Army (SNA) General Muse Hassan Sheikh Sayid Abdulle was appointed Interim Speaker and Acting President.
The commissioner, John Hamilton Gray, former premier of New Brunswick, gave his report in 1871, with suggestions for a draft uniform bill, but Parliament did not proceed with it.
This was followed by the "Law on the Reconstruction of the Reich" of 30 January 1934 that formally abolished all the Landtage and transferred the sovereignty of the states to the central government.
The convention concerning the Bucheggberg was called a "concordat" due to its confessional character, and this name was thereafter given to intercantonal treaties.
Subsequent developments It soon became apparent, however, that many aspects of the 1968 federalization were politically and administratively impractical.
The Czechoslovak state was declared to be a federation of "two equal fraternal nations," the Czech Socialist Republic and the Slovak Socialist Republic, each with a national administration paralleling and, at least in theory, equal in status to the federal government.
Intersection with Section 92 Section 92 states (in part) that: On the imposition of uniform duties of customs, trade, commerce, and intercourse among the States, whether by means of internal carriage or ocean navigation, shall be absolutely free.
Most members of Congress favored drafting a constitutional text based on classical federal principles.
The Partido Federal ng Pilipinas (PFP; English: Federal Party of the Philippines) is a national political party in the Philippines.
It is not unheard of for Austrians to consider themselves, for instance, Tyrolean first, Austrian second.
Secretary of War James Barbour concluded that "unconstitutional" included "void, and of no force or effect", and that Madison's textual change did not affect the meaning.
They would have given more power to the Prime Minister by allowing him or her to dissolve parliament, appoint and dismiss ministers, and control government policy.
The Council for the Australian Federation (CAF) is a group that seeks to promote and enhance the federal system of government in Australia and comprises Premiers and Chief Ministers of all Australian states and territories.
States of the Weimar Republic In the Weimar Republic (1919 – 1933) all German states had Landtage that were democratically elected by universal suffrage, and to which the state governments were responsible.
As at the federal level, parties representing national minorities are excluded from both the 5%-threshold and the basic mandate clause.
However, Mangelen denied the said claim and argued that he was the duly elected chairman of the party as shown in its petition for registration filed before the COMELEC and accused PFP members of unseating him as chairman without due process in order to make Marcos the leader of the party.
This prompted the first remodeling of the government in which the progressives were ousted and replaced with federalists.
On 29 May 2020, Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced that COAG would be replaced by a new structure based on the National Cabinet.
Instead, the governors general were recognised as fulfilling the role of the monarch in each Dominion, acting under the principles of responsible government, and only taking advice from the Dominion government, not from the British government.
An alliance between Fano, an Amhara youth militia and Qeerroo, its Oromo counterpart, played a crucial role in the bringing about the political and administrative changes associated with the premiership of Abiy Ahmed.
In the 2004 elections the candidates of the BPM (Trevor Walker) and the Barbuda People's Movement for Change both won 400 votes.
At the beginning of the 105th Congress, the House of Representatives incorporated the substantive requirement of the Enumerated Powers Act into the House rules.
It extends only to domestic corporations of a trading or financial character, and to all corporations formed outside Australia, and they are collectively referred to as "constitutional corporations".
James Bay Cree Referendum The James Bay Cree held a referendum to decide if their territory should remain a part of Canada should Québec vote to separate in its own forthcoming referendum.
Notable Anti-Federalists See also Albany Antifederal Committee Anti-Federalist Papers The Complete Anti-Federalist Country Party (Rhode Island) States' rights New Federalism Subsidiarity References Further reading Lim, Elvin (2014).
United States of China (simplified Chinese: 中华合众国; traditional Chinese: 中華合眾國; pinyin: Zhōnghuá Hézhòngguó) is a political concept first devised in the early 1920s by Chen Jiongming of a federalized China modeled closely after the United States of America.
Until that number is reached, new appointments are legally obliged to be of the underrepresented sex.
On 7 January, an explosion at an artillery storehouse in Cartagena killed over 300, mostly civilians.
Some incidental points were clarified in R v Australian Industrial Court; Ex parte CLM Holdings Pty Ltd.
In that case, the Court had concluded that such bills do not lapse upon dissolution, owing to the absence of explicit time constraints under Article 200.
In the federal system of the Federal Republic of Germany, the state parliaments embody the legislative power in the sixteen states.
I think that is the main distinction which influenced us to have a different sort of scheme for Assam from the one we have provided for other territories.
The British Parliament duly passed the amendment, as the British North America Act, 1915 (now the Constitution Act, 1915).
The Barbuda People's Movement is a left-wing Barbudan nationalist political party in Antigua and Barbuda active only on the island of Barbuda.
Though inspired by the Petroleum Revolution in Alcoy, the FRE-AIT did not take part in the organization of the canton.
Movements in Russia to establish real federalism or regional autonomy are suppressed by authorities, who label proponents of federalism as "dangerous" separatists.
The initial draft did not use the concept of senate divisions, and simply allocated twenty-four seats each to Ontario and Quebec, and ten each to Nova Scotia and New Brunswick.
Instead, North Jura became the (full) canton of Jura while South Jura remains in the canton of Bern as the region of Bernese Jura.
Since Patriation, the Act can only be amended in Canada, under the amending formula set out in the Constitution Act, 1982.
The state of Vorarlberg is made up of territories acquired by the House of Habsburg in the 14th and 15th centuries, and was a semi-autonomous part of the County of Tyrol from 1861.
CBC Documentary Breaking Point highlights that the "Cree is determined to have their own referendum and they intend to be the masters of their own future".
Reservation due to constitutional requirements: With regards to the bills covered by Articles 31A, 31C, 254(2), 288(2), or 360(4)(a)(ii), which mandate presidential assent, the Governor must specifically cite constitutional provisions necessitating presidential assent.
Meanwhile, while preparing the constitutional draft, Congress followed federalist guidelines but, when specifying the form of the State (federal or unitary), it was unable to adopt a decision, suspending its sessions in May 1827—apparently in order to consult the provinces on the matter.
Also, the leftist-socialist Communist Party (KPÖ) is represented in two parliaments, while the fiscal-liberal and regionalist Team Carinthia, the populist MFG and the anti-corruption regionalist Citizens' Forum (FRITZ), are represented in one parliament each.
The Council works under the Ministry of Inter Provincial Coordination and is responsible to both houses of the Parliament, the Senate and the National Assembly.
They put further pressure on the Czechoslovak government, with promises of alliance and territorial guarantees.
Macdonald, a leading figure in the Confederation negotiations and the first prime minister of Canada, was a particular proponent of centralisation.
The Federal Laws of 1826, collectively and incorrectly referred to as the Constitution of 1826, were a federalist experiment carried out in Chile during the period of the Organization of the Republic, in the absence of a formally approved constitution.
Purpose and interpretation Section 2 defined the term "Her Majesty the Queen" as used in the Constitution Act, 1867.
Initial approaches produced an unqualified view that Parliament could legislate to give effect to any obligation or even non-binding recommendation contained in an international treaty once ratified.
The Panglong Agreement (Burmese: ပင်လုံစာချုပ် [pɪ̀ɰ̃ lòʊɰ̃ sà dʑoʊʔ]) was reached in Panglong, Southern Shan State, between the Burmese government under Aung San and the Shan Committee, Kachin Committee, and Chin Committee peoples on 12 February 1947.
On the 100th anniversary of the foundation of the republic of Austria an extraordinary conference took place in 2018 which also addressed the relationship between the federal states as regions in the European Union.
Section 24 evinces a clear intention that the Commonwealth would use section 51(xi) to conduct census and collect information, rather than leaving the matter to the states.
The grant of jurisdiction to the federal courts cannot eliminate the jurisdiction of the provincial superior courts to determine constitutional issues.
Limits on legislative power Outside the questions of ultra vires and compliance with the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, there are absolute limits on what the Parliament of Canada and the provincial legislatures can legislate.
In September 2019, Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed announced the launch of the Homegrown Economic Reform Agenda (HERA), a program designated to advance the GTP with economic activity shifts from agriculture to industry.
However, since the court ruled that Congress's taxing authority was sufficient to enact the mandate, some constitutional lawyers have argued that the commerce clause discussion should be treated as judicial dictum.
Departing from the precedent of the 1956 Constitution of Pakistan, which stipulated for parity between the two wings, the LFO called for proportional representation, giving the more populous East Pakistan 169 seats in turn for West Pakistan's 144.
Section 92(1) originally gave the provincial legislatures the power to enact laws to amend the constitutions of the provinces, other than the office of the Lieutenant Governor.
The Virginia Resolution did not indicate what form this "interposition" might take or what effect it would have.
Federal institutions with overlapping mandates allow the national government to influence areas constitutionally reserved for the states, and the national government controls the civil services of most state governments.
Gallen, Graubünden, Aargau, Thurgau, Ticino, Vaud, Valais, Neuchâtel, Geneva, and Jura form the Swiss Confederation.
This power was a carry-over from the traditional structure of the pre-Confederation colonial governments.
Inauguration The inaugural session of parliament was held on 20 August 2012, at the Mogadishu airport since the main parliament building was undergoing renovations.
Alongside the Federal Council, the Austrian upper house, it is the second most important body for co-operation between the states as well as for federalism in the Austrian political system (in the modern Austria).
Founding Founded in 1982 by students at Yale Law School, Harvard Law School, and the University of Chicago Law School, the Federalist Society began as a student organization which sought to challenge liberal ideology in American law schools.
The Reichsrat could also veto legislation that was passed by the Reichstag, and the veto only could be overridden by a two-thirds vote of the Reichstag.
Madison is generally credited as the father of the Constitution and became the fourth President of the United States.
Once the votes were polled, 77% of the eligible members of the Cree ended up voting and the majority vote was to stay with Canada.
Manitoba: originally had two seats on joining Confederation in 1870; increased to three, then four, as population grew; increased to six on the creation of the Western division in 1915.
A law, decree or ordinance can be suspended only when the application of the law, decree or ordinance in question could incur serious, and difficult to repair, harm to the party submitting the appeal.
The principle, that it can exercise only the powers granted to it, would seem too apparent, to have required to be enforced by all those arguments, which its enlightened friends, while it was depending before the people, found it necessary to urge; that principle is now universally admitted.
The enumerated powers listed in Article One include both exclusive federal powers, as well as concurrent powers that are shared with the states, and all of those powers are to be contrasted with reserved powers that only the states possess.
Section 127 operated to prevent the number of Aboriginal Australians being used in the calculations for the number of members of the House of Representatives.
After the US-led invasion of Iraq in 2003, the short-lived Transitional Administrative Law recognised the existing Kurdish regional government and defined Iraq for the first time as a federal country.
No further appointments could be made to a division until the number of senators for that division reached its normal allotment, as senators died or retired.
The Empire would be restructured three ways instead of two, with the Slavic element given representation at the highest levels equivalent to what Austria and Hungary had at the time.
Part I—The Union and Its territories is a compilation of laws pertaining to the constitution of India as a country and the union of states and union territories that it is made of.
See also Osaka Metropolis Plan Chukyo Metropolis proposal Autonomous communities of Spain, similar grouping of Spanish provinces References External links The Future of Japan: A Case for Abolishing Prefectures and Establishing States
The governors all belong to the Alianza Federalista (Federalist Alliance) and they have criticized the government's responses to the health and economic responses to the COVID-19 pandemic in Mexico.
The provincial power to amend the provincial constitution is now found in section 45 of the Constitution Act, 1982.
See also Flemish nationalism – an ideology calling for greater autonomy or independence for Flanders Greater Netherlands – a hypothetical polity incorporating Flanders and the Netherlands.
Interface with the federal criminal law power In R v Wetmore, Dickson J (as he then was) observed: There is ...
When Northern Republicans grouped around Gerry Adams gained control of the IRA and Sinn Féin in the late 1970s, they attacked the policy.
Many of Austria's cities have population figures on the order of 10,000 inhabitants; some are even smaller.
However, by including all of historic Ulster—nine counties instead of the six in Northern Ireland—it was intended that the unionist majority would be slim enough to prevent abuses against the Catholic nationalist population in the province.
The writs were issued for Constituent Cortes elections on 10 May which resulted 343 seats for federal republicans and 31 for the rest of the political forces.
State reform, in the context of Belgium, is the ongoing process of seeking and finding constitutional and legal solutions to the problems and tensions in the different segments of the Belgian population, mostly between the Dutch-speakers of Flanders and the French-speakers of Wallonia.
See also List of current state governors in Mexico National Governors Association, a similar organization in the United States Conference of Minister-Presidents, a similar organization in Germany References External links official website
However, the High Court has also ruled that a distinction must be maintained between interstate trade and trade that is strictly within a State.
Accordingly, section 51(xi) still allowed the Commonwealth had the power to collect statistics on Aboriginal people which it did, according population numbers.
The reforms would have also ended Italy's perfect bicameralism: the Chamber of Deputies would have been given responsibility for foreign policy, defense and immigration, and the Senate – renamed "Federal Senate" – responsibility for nationwide federal law.
Its existence makes impossible any operation of the incidental power which would obliterate the distinction.
The interplay between the two lists of powers have been the source of much constitutional litigation since Confederation of Canada in 1867.
History On 31 March 1992, the Treaty of Federation between the central Russian government and the federal subjects was signed.
Related provisions The Proclamation of the Constitution Act, 1867 was the formal document which proclaimed the Constitution Act, 1867 to be in force as of July 1, 1867.
It is appointed by the president on the prime minister's advice, and resolves the disputes of power sharing between the federation and its provinces (with chief ministers representing their respective provinces).
The Sarkaria Commission Report on Centre-State Relations 1983 has recommended that Article 356 must be used "very sparingly, in extreme cases, as a measure of last resort, when all the other alternatives fail to prevent or rectify a breakdown of Constitutional machinery in the state".
Canada Temperance Federation the field continued to be within federal jurisdiction under the power relating to peace, order and good government.
Halabja from Sulaymaniah Governorate In 2013, activists and political parties called for the conversion of Hawija from a District into a governorate, but the Kirkuk government blocked the proposal.
That declaration and its conflict with the constitutional system of Czechoslovakia persuaded most Czech and Slovak politicians that negotiations about the dissolution had become unavoidable.
Secondly, the federal parliaments were intended to redress the economic imbalance between the eastern and western parts of Ireland, and was hoped to enable prosperity in the poorer west of the country.
The reforms were proposed and initially approved during Berlusconi II and III cabinet between October 2004 and November 2005.
It holds that First Nations children should not be denied access to public services while governments fight over who should pay.
Though Article 370 abrogation was upheld by the Supreme Court in 2023, statehood was restored from Union Territory.
See also Soviet of the Republic Soviet of Nationalities of the Supreme Soviet of the Soviet Union External links Russian Constitution of 1978 with amendments of 1989-1992
The Criminal Law, except the Constitution of Courts of Criminal Jurisdiction, but including the Procedure in Criminal Matters.
With a maximum membership of 96, provincial legislatures elect 23 each, using single transferable vote; with four representing the federal capital.
The representation of seats in the council of states (Rajya Sabha) shall be given in Schedule 4 of the constitution.
Repeal Section 127 was repealed by the British Parliament in 1893, in the Statute Law Revision Act 1893.
"Politics, the Constitution and Australian Industrial Relations: Pursuing a unified national system" (PDF).
Uniformity is desirable but not essential on items in this list: maintaining law and order, police forces, healthcare, transport, land policies, electricity in the state, village administration, etc.
"Institutional Exclusion of the Hill Tribes in Manipur: Demand for Protection under the Sixth Schedule".
Constitution Act, 1867 The Constitution Act, 1867 is part of the Constitution of Canada and thus part of the supreme law of Canada.
A point of view and a programme for racial harmony in South Africa, which claimed that devolution into federalist states would promote harmonious relations between the different population groups of South Africa.
In post-Derg Ethiopia's Constitution (promulgated in 1995), the EPRDF not only took over the Derg's Soviet-inspired promise of cultural and administrative autonomy for the country's over 80 ethnic groups but also borrowed the right to independence (secession) from the Soviet Constitution.
COAG differed from the United States' National Governors Association or Canada's Council of the Federation, because these bodies only include state/provincial representatives, whereas COAG also included federal and local representatives.
Lee United States Court of Appeals Judge (9th Cir.) Daniel Bress United States Court of Appeals Judge (9th Cir.) Danielle J.
Although the states themselves continued in existence, the federalism of the Republic was effectively supplanted by a unitary state.
1956) is a former member of the Chamber of Representatives (1999-2003) and the Belgian Senate (2010-2014) Plovie (b.
Currently, the Austrian People's Party (ÖVP), Social Democratic Party of Austria (SPÖ), and Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ) are represented in all nine provincial parliaments.
While Jefferson's draft of the 1798 Resolutions had claimed that each state has a right of "nullification" of unconstitutional laws, that language did not appear in the final form of those Resolutions.
The Council for the Australian Federation aims to strategically shape the national policy agenda and provide a forum for political actions.
50 of state list in seventh schedule (Taxes on mineral rights subject to any limitations imposed by the Parliament by law relating to mineral development) of the constitution.
The Court further emphasized that any reservation of a re-passed bill for presidential consideration, premised on non-compliance with the first proviso's procedure, would remain subject to judicial review.
Given the political, social and linguistic realities of China in the warlord period, Chen Jiongming believed that a federalist approach was the only feasible way to eventually establish a united, democratic republic.
List of governorates Former governorates Flags See also Federal regions of Iraq Districts of Iraq ISO 3166-2:IQ List of Governorates of Iraq by Human Development Index List of places in Iraq == References ==
Part of the reason for the demographic shift was that squatters were encouraged to occupy Christian homes.
Nine political parties are represented in the provincial parliaments, of which six are represented in more than one.
History During the War of Independence, cities and their surrounding areas became provinces through local councils (cabildos).
Achary maintained that the Court's ruling addressed only procedural clarifications—timelines and mandatory referral routes—rather than substantive constitutional interpretation.
In the Old Swiss Confederacy, the term Ort (plural: Orte) was in use from the early 15th century as a generic term for the member cantons.
The colonial governors could reserve a bill for consideration by the monarch (in effect, the British government), in case there were concerns that a bill did not come within the powers of the colonial government, or was contrary to a matter of British imperial policy.
Sheikh Aden Madobe was elected as Speaker of the House of the People on 27 April 2022, while Saadia Yasin Haji Samatar and Abdullahi Omar Abshirow were elected as First and Second Deputy Speakers the next day.
Characteristics of Russian federalism While Russia is nominally a federation, in practice it has functioned as a centralized unitary state, especially under the authoritarian regime of Vladimir Putin.
Although in form an appointing power, it has been given an expansive interpretation by the courts to protect a core of jurisdiction in the provincial superior courts, particularly over constitutional issues, and judicial review of administrative tribunals.
On 2 April 2014, the parliamentary committee of interior and security announced that it would soon establish a committee to oversee the federalism process in Somalia's constituent provinces.
The Federal Parliament of Somalia (Somali: Golaha Shacabka Soomaaliya; often Baarlamaanka Federaalka Soomaaliya; Arabic: البرلمان الاتحادي في الصومال) is the national parliament of Somalia.
The concentration of governmental authority in Prague was a source of discontent within Slovakia throughout the 1960s.
The communities assumed the authority of the cultural communities with regard to cultural matters and became responsible for the 'matters relating to the person', such as health and youth policy.
The Soviet of the Nationalities (Russian: Совет Национальностей) was one of the two chambers of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR (Russian Federation).
A CAF meeting was held on 12 April 2024, which focused on disability, health reforms, housing pressures and negotiation of several national funding agreements.
Motor Vehicle Act, the combination of absolute liability and possible imprisonment violates section 7 and will rarely be upheld under section 1.
It outlined how members of the existing provincial Legislative Councils could be appointed to the Senate.
Whenever parliament invokes the power, it gains not only jurisdiction over the work but also any necessarily incidental operations.
Each of the four provinces is represented by 23 senators regardless of population, while the Islamabad Capital Territory is represented by four senators, all of whom serve staggered six-year terms.
138 of the constitution, had opened the possibility to the request for confirmation by one of the three subjects provided for by the article.
Purpose and interpretation Guarantee of provincial superior court jurisdiction Although section 96 deals with appointment of judges, it has been interpreted as a restriction on the jurisdiction which can be conferred on courts which are not superior, county or district courts.
At the end of World War I, its advocates obtained support for a trialist manifesto, but the monarchy as a whole crumbled shortly thereafter.
The final Patriation package, set out in the Constitution Act, 1982, did not include the abolition of the reservation power and did not repeal section 57.
As well, Canadian National Transportation and Wetmore have held that prosecution falls within criminal procedure, and that it can be pursued by either federal or provincial prosecutors.
Royalties were restored upon the return of UMNO to power in 2004, but in 2015, Petronas ceased all payments to the state government.
The Polish government aimed to revitalize the Międzymorze federation concept and to create a strong federation of states in Central and Eastern Europe, revolving around Poland and Czechoslovakia, as a barrier to further German and Soviet aggression.
Lambermont Accord During the fifth state reform, more powers were transferred to the Communities and the Regions, with regard to agriculture, fisheries, foreign trade, development cooperation, auditing of electoral expenses and the supplementary financing of the political parties.
Though they were technically part of the Holy Roman Empire, they had become de facto independent when the Swiss defeated Emperor Maximilian I in 1499 in Dornach.
Television programming has been held to be part of that jurisdiction but it is unclear whether it is so only because it is ancillary to the regulation of communications undertaking.
In this sense, the first sentence of paragraph 8 of the Pact stipulated that the Diet directed "the general affairs of the Confederation" that the sovereign cantons had entrusted to it.
Issues that have been addressed include the National Emissions Trading Taskforce, implementation of the National Reform Agenda and the drought in Australia.
Economic federalism States are at liberty to manage their finances as long as that does not lead to financial emergency as per Article 360.
However, these maritime zones are also parts of the states as they are not separately listed in schedule 1 of the constitution and the role of union government is limited to mainly defending the offshore territory from external threats.
The Canton of Cartagena would live six months of constant wars, and even minted its own currency, the duro cantonal.
Maps See also Distribution of seats in Austrian state parliaments Districts of Austria Flags of Austrian states Coats of arms of the Austrian states ISO 3166-2:AT List of Austrian states by GDP List of Austrian states by Human Development Index Notes == References ==
Section 92(10)(a) and (b) grants federal jurisdiction over modes of interprovincial and international transportation and communication, leaving intraprovincial transportation and communication to the provinces.
Federalism in South Africa refers to the idea that the national government should be subordinate to the provinces.
This provision only excludes a constitutional monarchy (as the states have to be republics) and otherwise theoretically allows for a wide range of democratic forms of government.
The sixth state reform in the federal kingdom of Belgium is the result after the 2010–2011 Belgian government formation, with 541 days of negotiations, the longest ever in Belgium and possibly the world.
Imposition in state In practice, President's rule has been imposed in a State under any one of the following different circumstances: A state Assembly is unable to elect a leader as Chief Minister for a time prescribed by the Governor of that State, at the Will of Governor.
The parties include the Assembly of First Nations, the First Nations Child and Family Caring Society of Canada (the complainants), the Canadian Human Rights Commission, and the Attorney General of Canada.
After the passing of the 18th amendment the body was transferred to the Ministry of Inter Provincial Coordination on 4 March 2010.
The governance model reflects elite patronage and informal negotiations, resembling imperial rule rather than a true federalist framework.
Éire Nua is still supported by the Continuity Irish Republican Army, Republican Sinn Féin, Na Fianna Éireann and Cumann na mBan.
History After the defeat of the Ottoman Empire in 1919, Iraq became a League of Nations mandate under temporary British control.
Comprising the federal government, the governments of the six states and two mainland territories and the Australian Local Government Association, it managed governmental relations within Australia's federal system within the scope of matters of national importance.
Under Éire Nua, Ireland would become a federal state with parliaments for each of its four historic provinces, as well as a central parliament based in Athlone.
Modern legislation, such as the One Canadian Economy Act, provides similar powers to bring major projects under federal jurisdiction, which have largely replaced formal declarations pursuant to section 92(10).
Originally enacted in 1867 by the British Parliament under the name the British North America Act, 1867, in 1982 the Act was brought under full Canadian control through the Patriation of the Constitution, and was renamed the Constitution Act, 1867.
It again emerged in 1830 during the Belgian Revolution, when Belgium rebelled against and gained independence from the United Kingdom of the Netherlands.
This was intended to make chambers equally sized, because there are not enough deputies from national districts.
In 1924 the British defeated Mahmud, and the Mosul region was incorporated into the Kingdom of Iraq.
The National Conference of Governors (Spanish: Conferencia Nacional de Gobernadores) is a non-governmental organization in Mexico that consists of the governors of the states of Mexico.
"Federalism, Chinese Style: The Political Basis for Economic Success in China".pdf version Democracy and Its Limits in Greater China
In 1869 the federal government of Prime Minister Macdonald appointed a commission to study a uniform bill.
In 1901, Robert Garran and John Quick suggested that the external affairs power would "prove to be a great constitutional battle-ground." Some 86 years later, Coper remarked that their prediction "showed remarkable foresight".
In the letter dated 31 August 2020, Council Secretary Paul Nedd informed Cabinet Secretary Konata Lee that the Barbuda Council wished to secede from Antigua in order to determine a separate future for Barbuda and its people.
On 29 May 2020, Prime Minister Scott Morrison announced that COAG would be replaced by a new structure based on the National Cabinet implemented during the COVID-19 pandemic.
In all states there is a 5%-threshold which must be exceeded for a party to be considered in the proportional distribution of seats, although in Bremen it is sufficient to exceed the threshold in only one of the two cities that make up the state (Bremen city and Bremerhaven).
The Council of Common Interests (CCI) (Urdu: مشترکہ مفادات ہیئتِ, romanized: Muśtarkāh Mufādāt He'at) is an eight-member federal constitutional body in the government of Pakistan.
Section 96 of the Constitution Act, 1867 (French: article 96 de la Loi constitutionnelle de 1867) is a provision of the Constitution of Canada relating to the appointment of judges of the provincial superior, district and county courts.
During the formulation of the Constitution of India, the Sixth Schedule was devised to continue these modes of governance, providing the tribes autonomy and to allow them to continue their own traditional systems of self-governance.
51(i) covers both interstate and intrastate activities where they are "inseparably connected"; but the fact that an intra-state journey may economically be required to assure the operation of an interstate service has not been sufficient to allow the Commonwealth to regulate the entirety.
Consequently, in August 1827, during the government of Francisco Antonio Pinto, a law was enacted suspending the application of the laws that had established federalism in Chile.
Section 127 was found in Part IX of the Constitution Act, 1867, dealing with miscellaneous provisions of a general nature.
Assurance of maximum autonomy for the provinces while protecting the country's territorial sovereignty and providing sufficient powers to the Federal Government for functioning both internally and externally.
Malaysia, Brunei, and Singapore had maintained a common currency through the Malayan Currency Board.
Contents Political reform The Belgian Senate will no longer be directly elected, but will instead become an assembly of regional parliaments, with fewer members.
In practice, Russia functions as a centralized unitary state under Vladimir Putin, suppressing movements for proper federalism.
In popular culture In 1973, Sai Kham Leik composed the Shan language song, "Lik Hom Mai Panglong" (Shan: လိၵ်ႈႁူမ်ႈမၢႆပၢင်လူင်, lit.
From then on, these three Communities were known as the Flemish Community, the French Community and the German-speaking Community.
See also Federalism in Myanmar Panglong Conference Chin State Kachin State References Text referencing the Panglong Agreement
Drawing on a team of over twenty researchers, the report provides a holistic and detailed review of the Government of Canada's First Nations child and family services policy and sets out recommendations for improvement.
After the signing of the manifest, in Zagreb Fran Milobar got a telegram to prepare a public proclamation of the creation of "Zvonimir's kingdom".
Belgian nationalism, sometimes pejoratively referred to as Belgicism (Dutch: Belgicisme; French: Belgicanisme), is a nationalist ideology.
In Rhode Island, resistance against the Constitution was so strong that civil war almost broke out on July 4, 1788, when anti-federalist members of the Country Party led by Judge William West marched into Providence with over 1,000 armed protesters.
Madison indicated that the power to make binding constitutional determinations remained in the federal courts: It has been said, that it belongs to the judiciary of the United States, and not the state legislatures, to declare the meaning of the Federal Constitution.
Halabja Sirwan Khurmal District (Khurmal) Byara District (Byara) Bamo See also Governorates of Iraq References Sources humanitarianinfo district map humanitarianinfo governorate map
While the prosecution was pending, they were summoned to appear before a Board constituted under s 8A of the Immigration Act 1901–1920 (Cth) to show cause why they should not be deported from Australia.
New Brunswick (Liquor Licensing Board), a provincial licensing scheme required a liquor license to be accompanied by an entertainment licence to which conditions could be attached with respect to live entertainment and contests held on the licensed premises.
In addition tot the half-yearly meetings, the Conference of State Governors also convenes extraordinary meetings when urgent matters arise.
In November 1873, under the command of republican General José López Domínguez, a bombardment of Cartagena commenced.
Text of section 92 Section 92 reads: Section 92 is found in Part VI of the Constitution Act, 1867, dealing with the distribution of legislative powers between the federal and provincial governments.
Having no official vice presidential candidate, PFP adopted Duterte's daughter, Davao City mayor Sara Duterte of Lakas–CMD, as Marcos' running mate.
Thus, it can view it in its character as establishing offences and also as empowering it to prescribe penalties for their breach.
There is no indication that the British government consulted the government of Canada about the repeal.
When the State legislature reconsiders and passes the bill, with or without the amendments, Article 200 obligates the Governor to grant assent.
Yahya Khan held talks with East Pakistan's Governor, Vice-Admiral Ahsan, and concluded that Sheikh Mujib would soften his demands after the election.
The first six parties, therefore not including the green parties, then formed the Di Rupo I Government.
"All is not well in the Sixth Schedule - A Reaction to the Demand for the Sixth Schedule in Ladakh".
The Kentucky Resolution of 1799 added that when the states determine that a law is unconstitutional, nullification by the states is the proper remedy.
"Stranka prava (frankovci) u doba vladavine Narodnoga vijeća Slovenaca, Hrvata i Srba (listopad - prosinac 1918.)".
It was imposed upon the movement by their opponents, the Federalists, and was supposed to mark them as men who "stood against the very political ideas they embraced".
Yahya Khan ignored reports from the intelligence agencies about the increase in Indian influence in East Pakistan and that Mujib intended to tear up the LFO after the elections.
The federation, therefore, consists of 12 ethno-linguistically defined regional states and two chartered cities: Afar; Amhara, Benishangul-Gumuz; Central Ethiopia; Gambela; Harari; Oromia; Somali; Tigray; Sidama; South Ethiopia; and South West Ethiopia.
Quenelles de brochet are prepared in many ways, but most recipes first prepare a panade, essentially a thick white sauce, then combine the panade with fish, and put the mixture through a sieve such as a tamis, yielding a forcemeat.
This form of chili was most likely encountered by Christopher Columbus on his trip to the New World and brought back to Spain, where it later spread to Europe, India, and beyond.
Kramarczuk's, a James Beard Award-winning Ukrainian deli in Minneapolis, makes and sells Union Hmong Kitchen branded Hmong sausage.
Salt pork that contains a significant amount of meat, resembling standard side bacon, is known as "streak o' lean." It is traditionally popular in the Southeastern United States.
Bacon is distinguished from other salt-cured pork by differences in the cuts of meat used and in the brine or dry packing.
Dopo was founded in 2003 and Adesso was spun off in February 2009 when the owners acquired additional nearby space.
In this process, fresh cabbage is fermented in a light brine, where the sugars in the cabbage are transformed by lactofermentation to lactic acid which gives the cabbage a sour flavour and good keeping qualities.
Chipotle production involves using firewood to dry and smoke the red jalapeño for six days in an open-smoker installation.
Meat confit is a specialty of the southwest of France (Toulouse, Dordogne, and other areas) and is used in dishes such as cassoulet.
The recipe is practically identical with German Rouladen, perhaps omitting wine and adding a wedge of hard boiled egg and/or frankfurter to the filling.
The marinade typically contains various spices, herbs, and vegetables, including tomatoes, onions, powdered dried chilis, garlic, and vinegar.
When cooked in tomato sauce, the sauce itself is used to toss the pasta for the first course, giving a consistent taste to the whole meal.
There have been limited industrial applications of PEF processing for the pasteurization of fruit juices.
Confit (, French pronunciation: [kɔ̃fi]; Occitan: Confisat) (from the French word confire, literally "to preserve") is any type of food that is cooked slowly over a long period as a method of preservation.
In valence bond theory, it is described as a resonance hybrid with equal contributions from two canonical forms that are mirror images of each other.
The Middle Ages made pâté a masterpiece: that which is, in the 21st century, merely spiced minced meat (or fish), baked in a terrine and eaten cold, was at that time composed of a dough envelope stuffed with varied meats and superbly decorated for ceremonial feasts.
In the United Kingdom, a pork leg cut, either whole or sliced, that has been cured but requires additional cooking is known as gammon.
Noumboulo (from Venetian nombolo: loin) is a traditional charcuterie product of the Island of Corfu.
They may also be cooked in a wide variety of non-pottery terrine moulds, such as stainless steel, aluminium, enameled cast iron, and ovenproof plastic.
Customization can be accommodated by varying the duration of the smoking or placement of a batch relative to the source of heat and smoke, in addition to the leaf selection.
The East Slavic, Hungarian and Romanian variety may also be cured with paprika or other seasonings added, whereas the South and West Slavic version is often smoked.
Adding nitrites to meat has been shown to generate known carcinogens; the World Health Organization (WHO) advises that eating 50 g (1.8 oz) of nitrite processed meat a day would raise the risk of getting bowel cancer by 18% over a lifetime.
History and occurrence In 1956, two British scientists, John Barnes and Peter Magee, reported that a simple member of the large class of N-nitrosamines, dimethylnitrosamine, produced liver tumours in rats.
2017 Leuconostoc citrovorum The name Leuconostoc citrovorum (Hammer) Hucker and Pederson 1931 was rejected in 1971 as a nomen dubium by the Judicial Commission of International Committee on Systematics of Prokaryotes (in Opinion 45).
Without such a mixer unit, the additives must be mixed into the meat after grinding it, which adversely affects the taste and appearance of most products.
The association has developed a point system for judging the quality of ice sculptures created in timed competitions and certifies competition judges.
Tinned pâté, being shelf-stable, has sometimes been included in military rations, for, among others, the French Armed Forces, whose rations have included tinned pâté for more than 100 years.
From this derived the French word boucane and hence the name boucanier for French hunters who used such frames to smoke meat from feral cattle and pigs on Hispaniola (now Haiti and the Dominican Republic).
When they are deep red and have lost much of their moisture, they are picked to be made into chipotles.
Throughout much of the rest of Europe and parts of the English-speaking culinary world, speck is usually South Tyrolean speck, a type of Italian smoked ham.
In French cuisine, galantine (French: [galɑ̃tin]) is a dish of boned, stuffed meat, most commonly poultry or fish, that is usually poached and served cold, often coated with aspic.
Salo is often chopped into small pieces and fried to render fat for cooking, while the remaining shkvarky (a type of cracklings) are used as condiments for fried potatoes or varenyky or spread on bread as a snack.
D’Artagnan's line of products became more available to the consumer public when it began selling items to major grocery stores Balducci's and the Food Emporium in 1996.
The French refer only to duck and goose confits as true confits; other meats poached in duck or goose fat are considered en confit ("in confit").
Alinazik kebab, or simply Ali Nazik, is a home-style Turkish dish which is a specialty of the Gaziantep province of Turkey.
It is formed by extrusion through a die to the desired diameter, dried and shirred into short sticks up to 41 cm (16 in) long that contain as much as 50 m (160 ft) of casing.
The meat industry considers nitrites irreplaceable because they speed up curing and improve color while retarding the growth of Clostridium botulinum, the bacteria that causes botulism.
See also Maceration (food) Confit byaldi Fruit preserves Philippine adobo Potted meat Rendang References Further reading Larousse gastronomique: the encyclopedia of food, wine & cookery, Ed.
Overview Since 1975, the company has grown from a neighborhood take-out shop in Greenwich Village into a nationally distributed specialty food brand.
Texas In Texas, the hot link is typically prepared with beef, and is usually cooked over indirect heat.
It is usually baked, fried or grilled and often accompanies other dishes, sometimes as part of tapas.
Its style has been influenced by the California cuisine of the nearby Chez Panisse, as well as the charcuterie of Oliveto, a nearby restaurant that was one of the first in the country to have an in-house charcuterie program.
Old French jambon is attested since the 13th century and is derived from Old French jambe (gambe in Old North French) which in turn is derived from the Late Latin gamba, meaning "leg/hock of a horse/animal".
These are available in all diameters and in put ups from short up to medium length, about 6 meter minimum, with a maximum length of about 14 meters.
There is also another approach of impregnating packaging materials (plastic films or other) with antioxidants and antimicrobials.
Upon addition to water, GDL is partially hydrolysed to gluconic acid, with the balance between the lactone form and the acid form established as a chemical equilibrium.
Other methods There are many different methods for drying, each with its own advantages for particular applications.
Sausages with the same name in different countries may be identical, similar, or significantly different.
Adesso's menu focused on salumi and Pâté, with a substantially larger array of charcuterie available than at Dopo.
The fruit must be fully infused with sugar to its core; larger fruit takes considerably longer than smaller ones to candy.
Meat A meat-based roulade typically consists of a slice of steak rolled around a filling such as cheese, vegetables, or other meats.
In cuisine As an ingredient, fatback is a preferred fat for various forms of charcuterie, particularly sausages and forcemeats for pâtés and terrines.
"Confit country" is the area of Occitan France, where goose fat is used for cooking, as opposed to olive oil, which is used in Provence, where olives were plentiful and thus cheap.
Les Trois Petits Cochons also known as Three Little Pigs is an American charcuterie company founded in 1975 in Greenwich Village of New York City.
Tyrolean speck is a distinctively juniper-flavored ham originally from Tyrol, a historical Austrian region that since 1918 partially lies in Italy.
I called my mom, because I wasn't sure, but I remember as a kid she chopped it up and put it in this casing..." Hmong Americans tend to make the sausage a foot or more long and very thick, then eat it fresh or freeze it to preserve it.
Job requirements As with most hands-on cooking positions, a garde manger chef needs fine motor skills and physical stamina, as well as cooking skills and knowledge of food safety.
Other common dishes include croissant preñado, a croissant with chistorra filler, and tortilla con chistorra, a potato or egg omelet with chistorra.
Although it is enjoyed all year round, it is traditionally served as an hors d’oeuvre on Christmas and New Year's days.
The Slavic word "salo" or "slanina" as applied to this type of food is often translated to English as "bacon", "lard" or "fatback" in general, depending on context.
The local variety of chistorra available in the province of León is called Chistorra de León and is made with a larger percentage of beef.
are intrinsically resistant to vancomycin and are catalase-negative (which distinguishes them from staphylococci).
Under anaerobic conditions, nitrate is the strongest electron acceptor used by prokaryote microorganisms (bacteria and archaea) to respirate.
As a stand-alone food product, it is typically boiled to remove much of the salt content and to partially cook the product, then fried until it starts to develop a crisp exterior.
Lap cheong (simplified Chinese: 腊肠; traditional Chinese: 臘腸; pinyin: làcháng; Jyutping: laap6 coeng4; Cantonese Yale: laahp chéung; also lap chong, lap chung, lop chong) are dried pork sausages that look and feel like pepperoni but are much sweeter.
It belongs to the family of dishes known as fattat (plural) or fatta, which use stale flatbread as a base.
History Several historical factors contributed to the regional popularity of pork, and pork fat in particular: unlike cattle, which could be used as workforce, and whose meat would mostly be sold by villagers to urban inhabitants along with mutton, pigs were seen as a resource for consumption.
A classic named reaction for the synthesis of alkyl nitrites is the Meyer synthesis in which alkyl halides react with metallic nitrites to a mixture of nitroalkanes and nitrites.
With a smoke point of 480 °F (249 °C), tallow is traditionally used in deep frying and was preferred for this use until the rise in popularity of plant oils for frying.
Smoking may also provide a means to create a marketable product from older or less flavourful leaves.
Besides the domestic manually or motor operated grinders, there are also grinders for butchery (table- or shop-grinders for example) and for the food industry.
A quenelle (French pronunciation: [kə.nɛl]) is a mixture of creamed fish or meat, sometimes combined with breadcrumbs, with a light egg binding, formed into an egg-like shape, and then cooked.
Salt pork typically resembles uncut side bacon, but is fattier, being made from the lowest part of the belly, and saltier, as the cure is stronger and performed for longer, and never smoked.
Founding The Church of Bacon was founded during a meeting at Penn Jillette's house in 2010, to fight discrimination against atheists.
Pellicles of protein that form prior to smoking meat (including fish and poultry) allow smoke to better adhere to the surface of the meat during the smoking process.
The use of polyamide casings has expanded recently with the advent of various varieties and structures of casings such as multilayer casings.
Confit country is divided roughly into regions where one type of meat predominates the confit preparations.
It is made from smoked and spiced eggplant, grilled and then pureed, topped with cubes of sauteed lamb, previously seasoned and marinated.
Billboards UCB has posted billboards in Las Vegas, Nevada in order to spread awareness of both itself and various atheist and skeptic messages.
Meat confit Confit of goose (confit d'oie) or duck (confit de canard) is usually prepared from the legs of the bird.
Both restaurants focused on charcuterie, with menus changing on a daily basis to take advantage of timely ingredients.
In southern parts of Italy such as Sicily, where fish are a more plentiful element of cuisine, involtini can sometimes be made with fish such as swordfish.
Palmitic acid and stearic acid are the main saturated fatty acids, while oleic acid is the principal monounsaturated fatty acid; it has a low content of polyunsaturated fatty acids (4% of total; details below and in table source).
In popular culture The 1954 rhythm and blues song "Fat Back and Corn Liquor" was written by Louisiana songwriter Rudy Toombs and sung by Louis Jordan.
In some areas it is called studen' (студень) or studenets (Ukrainian: студенець, romanized: studenets), derived from a different root with a similar meaning.
Nitrates are produced by a number of species of nitrifying bacteria in the natural environment using ammonia or urea as a source of nitrogen and source of free energy.
In the Middle Ages, there were numerous recipes for pâtisseries (meats—pork, poultry, game or fish— cooked in pastry).
The scientific research of lactobacilli in relation to oral health is a new field and only a few studies and results have been published.
Pâté was known to the Romans, who generally made it with pork, although other main ingredients might include marinated and spiced birds' tongues.
2020 Leuconostoc mesenteroides (Tsenkovskii 1878) van Tieghem 1878 (Approved Lists 1980) Leuconostoc miyukkimchii Lee et al.
Pastry Some roulades consist of cake (often sponge cake) baked in a flat pan rolled around a filling.
For these reasons, it is often used as a food supply by shepherds, hunters, backpackers, and other travellers, and was issued to German and Hungarian soldiers as part of their rations during World War II.
Unlike the large roulade, sliced before serving, the "birds" are typically 10 cm (3.9 in) long, served whole with a side dish of rice or Czech style bread dumplings.
Salt is used especially to reduce the concentration of bacteria which preserves it for a longer time and gives a salty taste.
Metabolic activation is required to convert them to the alkylating agents that modify bases in DNA, inducing mutations.
Forms of chipotle Chipotles are purchased in numerous forms: chipotle powder, chipotle flakes, chipotle pods, canned chipotles in adobo sauce, concentrated chipotle base, and wet chipotle meat marinade.
June 2022 The United Church of Bacon posted 2 billboards saying "Bacon is our God" in Birmingham, AL.
By the 1950s, meat aspic was a popular dinner staple, as were other gelatin-based dishes such as tomato aspic.
History The term garde manger (French for larder) originated in pre-Revolutionary France, where large, wealthy households designated a kitchen manager to supervise the use and storage of large amounts of foodstuffs.
Instead, clergy are encouraged to ask whomever is provided services to donate to either the charity of their choice or from a list on their website.
USDA regulations only recognise bacon as "cured" if it has been treated with synthetic nitrites or nitrates (e.g.
It is typically produced by the aerobic oxidation of glucose in the presence of the enzyme glucose oxidase.
Speck can refer to a number of European cured pork products, typically salted and air-cured and often lightly smoked but not cooked.
According to Larousse Gastronomique, when there is a pastry case the dish is pâté en croute and when there is not, and the mixture is cooked in a dish (called a terrine), it is pâté en terrine, often abbreviated to terrine or pâté, terms used interchangeably in both French and English usage.
The first is inducing osmosis: this process involves the movement of water outside of the membranes of the cells, which in turn reabsorb the salted water back into the cell.
In 1983, Pittsburg Hot Link Packers, Inc., in Pittsburg, Texas, was producing 12,000 pounds of hot links per week.
It is a particular speciality of delis serving Montreal-style smoked meat, where slices of the fatty cut are served in sandwiches on rye bread with mustard, sometimes in combination with other, leaner cuts.
The final cured product tends to be thinner than traditional chorizo or sausage, with a diameter of approximately 25 mm.
In Mexico and the United States, there is a growing market for ripe red jalapeños (the last stage of maturation).
Reporting $50 million in sales in 2008, D’Artagnan employs 125 people, and has a fleet of 18 trucks that deliver products to restaurants throughout the Mid-Atlantic region.
The bûche de Noël or "Yule log" is a traditional French Christmas cake roll, often decorated with frosting made to look like bark.
Limosilactobacillus reuteri has been used as a model organism to evaluate the host-adaptation of lactobacilli to the human and animal intestine and for the recruitment of intestinal lactobacilli for food fermentations.
Chicago-based IRI reported sales of charcuterie types of packaged lunch meats reached $561 million in 2019, up 8.1% from the previous year.
Moreover, these meals evolved and found their way to higher society with the cheese course of formal dinners in 18th and 19th century France, Great Britain, and colonial America.
Strong evidence also links processed meat with higher risks of cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes.
A member of the Academy of Medicine and his son issued a 34-page summary of works completed by 1857, which proposed some solutions: not less than 91 texts exist, of which 64 edited for only the years between 1851 and 1857.
By extension, a quenelle may also be another food made into a similar shape, such as ice cream, sorbet, butter, or mashed potato quenelles.
Since the meat could not be refrigerated easily, its fresh consumption was limited to the time of slaughter.
See also Sai oua – a similar sausage References External links Hmong sausage at the Minnesota State Fair Video of Hmong sausage grilling Hmong sausage recipe with photos
See also Antipasto Salad spinner References Further reading Frances Barber Harris (1918), Florida Salads: a collection of dainty, wholesome salad recipes that will appeal to the most fastidious, Jacksonville, Fla: Jacksonville Printing Co., OCLC 509840, OL 6612631M
D’Artagnan (D'Artagnan, Inc., also known as D'Artagnan Foods) is a food seller and manufacturer of beef, pork, lamb, veal, pâtés, sausages, smoked and cured charcuterie, all-natural and organic poultry, game meat, free-range meat, foie gras, wild mushrooms, and truffles.
Chistorra is traditionally served on the feast day of Thomas the Apostle (December 21) in San Sebastián.
Confit, as a cooking term, describes the process of cooking food in fat, whether it be grease or oil, at a lower temperature compared to deep frying.
The meat is salted and seasoned with herbs and slowly cooked submerged in its own rendered fat (never to exceed 85 °C [185 °F]), in which it is then preserved by allowing it to cool and storing it in the fat.
Although nitrites are the nitrogen species chiefly used in meat curing, nitrates are used as well and can be transformed into nitrite by microorganisms, or in the digestion process, starting by their dissolution in saliva and their contact with the microbiota of the mouth.
In a reference amount of 100 g (3.5 oz), it supplies 902 calories of food energy and 109 mg of cholesterol (table).
Non-waterfowl meats are frequently treated to the confit process but are not classically considered true confits.
In the United States, knackwurst, also referred to as knoblauch, is prepared using ground pork, veal, and fresh garlic.
Thus, while small fruit such as cherries are confits whole, it is quite rare to see whole large fruit, such as melon confits since the time and energy involved in producing large fruit confits makes them quite expensive.
Consumers may have a negative view of irradiated food based on the misconception that such food is radioactive; in fact, irradiated food does not and cannot become radioactive.
The study's researchers suggest that the high amount of nitrites in the meats was responsible; however, the team did not prove the nitrite theory.
The term garde manger is also related to the cold rooms inside castles and manor houses where the food was stored.
In French-speaking Switzerland, the term charcuterie is employed, whereas in Italian-speaking Switzerland, the term salumi is employed.
History Forcemeats are an ancient food and are included in Apicius, a collection of Roman cookery recipes usually thought to have been compiled in the late 4th or early 5th century AD.
Bacon in Japan is different from that in the US in that the meat is not sold raw, but is processed, precooked and has a ham-like consistency when cooked.
In the fermentation of milk products, lactose is the predominant sugar which is fermentable, whereas in vegetables like sauerkraut and kimchi, glucose and fructose are liberated from the plant tissues and act as the primary carbon source.
Ireland Not traditionally known for Ice sculpture, Ireland has produced some well respected sculptors, winning The International Ice Sculpture Festival in Jelgava, Latvia, in years past.
Modern terrines do not necessarily contain meat or animal fat, but still contain meat-like textures and fat substitutes, such as mushrooms and pureed fruits or vegetables high in pectin.
Then layers of fat slabs (skin side down) topped with one-centimetre layers of salt go into a wooden box or barrel for curing.
Another common type of pâté in Jewish cuisine, also popular in Russia and Ukraine, is vorschmack, or gehakte herring (chopped herring).
Hmong families pass down "secret" sausage recipes and do not disclose the exact ingredients or methods they use.
When sodium nitrite is added with the salt, the meat develops a red, then pink color, which is associated with cured meats such as ham, bacon, hot dogs, and bologna.
In regions with intensive agriculture, such as parts of the U.S., China, and India, the use of nitrogen fertilizers can exceed 200 kilograms per hectare.
History Europe Charcuterie is cured meat, derived from the French chair, 'flesh', and cuit, 'cooked' and was coined in 15th century France.
It is usually accompanied by cold rakija (grape brandy), sauerkraut, and turšija (pickled cucumbers, dill, peppers, cauliflower, carrots etc.).
The effects of nitroso compounds vary dramatically across the gastrointestinal tract, and with diet.
The name Leuconostoc comes from Greek adjective leukos meaning clear; and the word nostoc gelatinous colonies, Leuconostoc - colorless nostoc.
A panade can be made from starchy ingredients which aid in the binding process; these include well-cooked potatoes which have been puréed, cream-soaked bread, or pâte à choux.
Debrecener Extrawurst, in variants with pieces of Gherkins (Gurkerlextra) or Paprika (Pikante Extrawurst).
Ingredients A sausage consists of meat cut into pieces or ground, mixed with other ingredients, and filled into a casing.
A hot link (also "red link", "Louisiana red hot" or "Louisiana hot link") is a type of sausage used in the cuisine of the Southern United States, and a part of American barbecue, soul food, and Cajun and Louisiana Creole cuisines.
Wedge salad A wedge salad is a green salad made from a head of lettuce (often iceberg), halved or quartered, with other ingredients on top.
Quenelles de brochet Lyon and Nantua are famous for their quenelles de brochet (pike quenelles), often served with sauce Nantua (crayfish sauce) or sauce mousseline (cream sauce) and run under a grill.
They are sometimes referred to as chili navideño because they are reconstituted and stuffed to make a traditional dish that is most popular at Christmas time among Mexican locals.
In 1988, Three Little Pigs opened a facility in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania named House of Bricks to accommodate the increasing demand for its products as it became a nationally distributed brand by the 1990s.
It formed the main protein source for the slaves on the West Indian plantations, and was a major economic force within the triangular trade.
Small bacon cubes (called Grieben or Grammerln in Austria and southern Germany) have been a rather important ingredient of various southern German dishes.
2024) Phylogeny The currently accepted taxonomy is based on the List of Prokaryotic names with Standing in Nomenclature and the phylogeny is based on whole-genome sequences.
Salo or slanina is a European food consisting of salt-cured slabs of pork subcutaneous fat with or without skin and with or without layers of meat.
Guaiacol is the phenolic compound most responsible for the "smoky" taste, while syringol is the primary contributor to smoky aroma.
In recent years, other members of the genus Lactobacillus (formerly known as the Leuconostoc branch of Lactobacillus) have been reclassified into the genera Atopobium, Carnobacterium, Weissella, Oenococcus, and Leuconostoc.
Galantine also appears in Geoffrey Chaucer's "To Rosamond", parodying extravagant declarations of courtly love: See also Chicken galantina Ballotine Head cheese List of stuffed dishes Terrine Turducken References External links Peter Hertzmann on galantine
In Ukraine, this situation could be complemented by the fact that Islamic law forbids the consumption of pork, so pigs would be the only animal which couldn't be taken by Muslim raiders.
Species The genus Limosilactobacillus comprises the following species: Limosilactobacillus agrestis Li et al.
Each involtino is held together by a wooden toothpick, and the dish is usually served (in various sauces: red, white, etc.) as a second course.
Nutrients One 10 g slice of cooked side bacon contains 4.5 g of fat, 3.0 g of protein, and 205 mg of sodium.
It is then encased in natural intestine, usually together with a strip of fat, and smoked over a mixture of herbs including sage, bay laurel, thyme, terebinth, and myrtle.
The frozen blocks can range from 90×50×15 cm to 90×50×20 cm, and the force applied from 80,000 newtons (18,000 lbf) to 120,000 newtons (27,000 lbf).
Other common ingredients are salt, black pepper, garlic, scallions, shallots, fish sauce, oyster sauce, cilantro, green onion, serrano pepper, and monosodium glutamate (MSG).
In the 19th century, the word (sometimes extended to the phrase "gammon and spinach") had come to mean "humbug, a ridiculous story, deceitful talk" in Britain.
Other types of salad include bean salad, tuna salad, bread salads (such as fattoush, panzanella), vegetable salads without leafy greens (such as Greek salad, potato salad, coleslaw), rice-, pasta- and noodle-based salads, fruit salads and dessert salads.
In the United States, restaurants may have a salad bar with salad-making ingredients, which the customers will use to put together their salad.
Less commonly, a terrine may be another food cooked or served in the cooking dish called a 'terrine'.
In the Aragonese Pyrenees, there are two different types of chistorra: one made only of pork meat and another made of lungs, boned pig head and the pancreas, called berica.
Commercially casings are available in various forms of packaging which are suited to different applications.
Since the chilis are smoked, this would have enabled them to survive the long journey across several oceans.
Cake rolled around jam, chocolate buttercream, nuts or other fillings, is an example of a sweet roulade like the bejgli or the Swiss roll.
In the 18th and 19th centuries even urban inhabitants of Ukraine would keep pigs, and their pastures would sometimes be located in central parts of big cities, including Kyiv.
Most terrines contain a large amount of fat, although it is often not the main ingredient, and pork; many terrines are made with typical game meat, such as pheasant and hare.
In the later nineteenth century the technique's origin was already attributed to the chef of the marquis de Brancas.
Hmong, being a diaspora, incorporate a wide variety of ingredients, methods, and cultural backgrounds in Hmong cuisine such as Hmong sausage.
Morita means "small mulberry" in Spanish and is grown primarily in the state of Chihuahua; it is typically darker in color with a reddish-purple exterior.
There is no standard recipe for Hmong sausage, but the key ingredients are coarse ground fatty pork cuts such as pork belly and pork shoulder, Thai chili peppers, lemongrass, kaffir lime leaf or lime juice, and fresh ginger root or galangal.
The genus currently includes 31 species or subspecies, most of these were isolated from the intestinal tract of humans or animals.
Burial Burial of food can preserve it due to a variety of factors: lack of light, lack of oxygen, cool temperatures, pH level, or desiccants in the soil.
See also List of hams List of dried foods List of smoked foods Speck Alto Adige References Further reading "Speck – Smoked Prosciutto".
Hmong sausage (Hmong: hnyuv ntxwm hmoob) is a long thick pork sausage from Hmong culture seasoned with herbs like lemongrass and Thai chili pepper.
The recipe calls for the meat to be cleaned, washed, and then boiled for a short time, no longer than 10 minutes.
The company generates revenue through direct sales to restaurants, retailers and the consumer public on its website.
The addition of the smoke flavour makes the lower concentration of aromatic compounds in these larger leaves, relative to the younger leaves and the bud, less relevant to the taste of the final product.
Lactobacillus exhibits a mutualistic relationship with the human body, as it protects the host against potential invasions by pathogens, and in turn, the host provides a source of nutrients.
Buccan or Boucan is the native South American and Caribbean name for a wooden framework or hurdle on which meat was slow-roasted or smoked over a fire.
The underlying heat of the jalapeños combines with the taste of smoke, forming a flavor distinctive to chipotle peppers.
Numerous spices and herbs are used in the curing process to assist with the flavor of the final product.
Addition of acid to a solution of a nitrite in the presence of a reducing agent, such as iron(II), is a way to make nitric oxide (NO) in the laboratory.
This term encompasses dishes like braciole (a roulade consisting of beef, pork or chicken usually filled with Parmesan cheese, bread crumbs and eggs) and saltimbocca.
Thus, participation in the event requires strength, endurance, and engineering skill as well as mastery of basic ice sculpture techniques and artistic vision.
In fermentation pickling, bacteria in the liquid produce organic acids as preservation agents, typically by a process that produces lactic acid through the presence of lactobacillales.
The church promotes separation of church and state, science education and critical thinking, and an end to discrimination against atheists.
Preparations One of the most popular dishes involving chistorra is huevos rotos con chistorra y patatas, a dish with fried eggs and potatoes.
The founder of the church later recorded seven out of eleven Wells Fargo branches denying simple notarisations.
The restaurant made an active effort to use local and sustainable food where possible, with ingredients being purchased fresh from Monterey Market every day, or delivered by local farms.
See also List of garlic dishes List of sausages References Further reading Vajdi, M.; Pereira, R.R.; Gallop, R.A.
Of this common form, there are several notable dishes: Paupiette, French veal roulade filled with vegetables, fruits or sweetmeats Rinderroulade, German and Hungarian beef roulade filled with onions, bacon and pickles.
Some traditional cured meat (such as authentic Parma ham and some authentic Spanish chorizo and Italian salami) is cured with salt alone.
This shit is legacy." Hmong sausage is commonly processed and served during special occasions like Hmong New Year celebrations.
It is commonly eaten and known under different names across Central, Eastern and Southeastern Europe.
Traditionally, bacon grease is saved in British and southern US cuisine, and used as a base for cooking and as an all-purpose flavouring, for everything from gravy to cornbread to salad dressing.
Etymology The word comes from the French verb confire (to preserve), which in turn comes from the Latin word (conficere), meaning "to do, to produce, to make, to prepare." The French verb was first applied in medieval times to fruits cooked and preserved in sugar.
Salt pork now finds use in traditional American cuisine, particularly Boston baked beans, pork and beans, and to add its flavor to vegetables cooked in water, as with greens in soul food.
Additionally, it is commonly paired with traditional dishes such as bean soup, pimento cheese, tomatillo salsa, fish tacos, and grilled flank steak.
December 2015 The United Church of Bacon posted a holiday billboard in December 2015 which stated "Merry Christmas and Happy Hanukkah from 13,000+ Atheists & Skeptics at United Church of Bacon".
The quote states, “Infidelity is saying you believe something when you don't.” April 2015 One of the first billboards was put up in April 2015.
Grilling sausages: Appenzeller Siedwurst, Berner Zungenwurst, Cervelat, Emmentalerli, Frauenfelder Salzissen, Glarner Kalberwurst, Kümmelwurst, Schüblig, Schützenwurst, St.
Around the world Australia and New Zealand The most common form sold is middle bacon, which includes some of the streaky, fatty section of side bacon along with a portion of the loin of back bacon.
The best known cecina is Cecina de León, which is made of the hind legs of a cow, salted, smoked and air-dried in the provinces of León and Palencia in northwestern Spain, and has PGI status.
Sour and spicy sauces are served on the side, especially a Hmong sauce made with Thai chilies called "pepper dip".
Probiotics Because of the interactions with other microbes, fermenting bacteria like lactic acid bacteria (LAB) are now in use as probiotics with many applications.
With the arrival of the new "chilled" meats, New Zealand could compete even more strongly with local producers of fresh meat.
Goose confit is associated with the Béarn and Basque regions with their classic specialties of cassoulet and garbure, hearty and earthy dishes of confit and beans.
Though no longer fit for culinary use, the spoiled fat can be used as a water-repellent treatment for leather boots or bait for mouse traps, or it can be used to prepare homemade soap.
Another form of non-meat roulade consists of a soufflé-type mixture baked in a flat pan rolled around a filling.
Air Force C-17 Globemaster III flew using JP-8 conventional jet fuel in three of its engines and a 50/50 blend of JP-8 and HRJ biofuel made from beef tallow in one engine on August 23, followed by a flight with the same 50/50 blend in all four engines on August 24.
Condiment confit Italian cooking uses several "condiment confits", such as onion confit, chili confit, and garlic confit.
The specific alkylating agents vary with the nitrosamine, but all are proposed to feature alkyldiazonium centers.
These billboards have created discussion on various social media platforms about the church and its message.
The billboard featured the UCB logo and featured the phrase "bacon is our god because bacon is real".
While deep frying typically takes place at temperatures of 160–230 °C (325–450 °F), confit preparations are done at a much lower temperature, such as an oil temperature of around 90 °C (200 °F), or sometimes even cooler.
It is metabolized to 6-phospho-D-gluconate; one gram of GDL yields roughly the same amount of metabolic energy as one gram of sugar.
Uncured, sliced pork belly, known as bara (バラ), is very popular in Japan and is used in a variety of dishes (e.g.
William Grimes reviewed D’Artagnan the Rotisserie in The New York Times, and gave the restaurant two stars, saying: "D’Artagnan has the real thing.
CNC machines and molding systems are now commonly used to create ice sculptures and complicated logos from ice.
The term speck became part of popular parlance only in the eighteenth century and replaced the older term bachen, a cognate of bacon.
Hurdle technology uses low doses of multiple food preservation techniques in order to ensure food is not only safe but is desirable visually and texturally.
Bacon brine has added curing ingredients, most notably nitrites or nitrates, which speed the curing and stabilise colour.
Natural casings are made from animal intestines or skin; artificial casings, introduced in the early 20th century, are made of collagen and cellulose.
The term is usually used in modern cuisine to mean long, slow cooking in fat at low temperatures, many having no element of preservation, such as in dishes like confit potatoes.
It is made of minced pork, or a mixture of minced pork and beef, is encased in either lamb tripe or plastic and has a fat content that varies between 70 and 80%.
Chipotle grande is a smoke-dried Huachinango chili with a similar flavor profile; however, the chili is larger and higher in cost.
Great Britain and Ireland Back bacon is the most common form in Great Britain and Ireland, and is the usual meaning of the plain term bacon.
Founded by Yia Vang, restaurant Union Hmong Kitchen processed and sold prepared Hmong sausage in Minnesota as a restaurant pop up, and later debuted a seasonal stand at the Minnesota State Fair in 2022 with dishes such as purple sticky rice and Hmong sausage made with crunchy Thai chili oil.
Eating cured and processed meat products has been linked to a small increase in gastric cancer, as well as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and colorectal cancer.
The first historical mention of Tyrolean speck was in the early 13th century, when some of the current production techniques were already in use.
Pellicle formation on meat and seafood Before cured foods are cold smoked, they can be allowed to air-dry to form a tacky outer layer, known as a pellicle.
Since boning poultry can be difficult and time-consuming for the novice, this is a rather elaborate dish, which is often lavishly decorated, hence its name, connoting a presentation at table that is galant, or urbane and sophisticated.
This has not changed much throughout history: until the 19th century, animals were typically slaughtered in November, then cut up for salting, smoking and making sausages.
Speck can be cut into thick strips and added to pasta sauces or any dish beginning with a soffritto of olive oil and chopped vegetables.
Preservation For preservation, salo is salted and sometimes also smoked and aged in a dark and cold place, where it will last for a year or more.
The portions are cubed and then seasoned, cured, rested, ground and finally placed into the desired vessel.
Ice sculptures, ice walls for fire fighting, property protection and cooling stations may be cast by a process in which ice water (one part), crushed ice or ice cubes (three parts) and tiny, floating, dry ice pellets (one part) are placed in a cement mixer.
Like bacon it must be cooked before it can be eaten; in that sense gammon is comparable to fresh pork meat, and different from dry-cured ham like jamón serrano or prosciutto.
Nitrite reacts with the meat myoglobin to cause color changes, first converting to nitrosomyoglobin (bright red), then, on heating, to nitrosohemochrome (a pink pigment).
Many traditional styles of sausage from Asia and mainland Europe use no bread-based filler and include only meat (lean meat and fat) and flavorings.
In 1975, the trio decided to open a charcuterie company as they did not have the funding to open a restaurant.
A leg of pork is deboned and divided into large sections called "baffe", and then cured in salt and one of various spice combinations, which may include garlic, bay leaves, juniper berries, nutmeg, and other spices, and then rested for a period of several weeks.
Nitrate ingestion rapidly increases the plasma nitrate concentration by a factor of 2 to 3, and this elevated nitrate concentration can be maintained for more than 2 weeks.
GDL is pH-neutral, but hydrolyses in water to gluconic acid which is acidic, adding a tangy taste to foods, though it has roughly a third of the sourness of citric acid.
Figs and dates may be transformed into different products that can either be eaten as they are, used in recipes, or rehydrated.
The person in charge of this area, and all of the savory cold foods served by the restaurant, is known as the chef garde manger, or pantry chef.
See also References External links Consejo Regulador de la Indicación Geográfica Protegida "Cecina de León", PGI Consortium Cecina de León elaboration
A terrine (French pronunciation: [tɛ.ʁin]), in traditional French cuisine, is a loaf of forcemeat or aspic, similar to a pâté, that is cooked in a covered pottery mold (also called a terrine) in a bain-marie.
"How gamma irradiated and ethylene oxide treated spices affect the microbial quality, shelf life, and flavor of garlic sausage".
The timing of this billboard coincided with the UCB protest of Wells Fargo over religious discrimination.
Pellicles of cellulose that form in fermenting beverages, such as SCOBYs, are biofilms that are produced as fermentation takes place.
In southern Norway, grilled and wiener sausages are often wrapped in a lompe, a potato flatbread somewhat similar to a lefse.
That same year, legislation was introduced in the United States with the aim of deeming sodium nitrite products with a sodium nitrite concentration of greater than 10% by volume to be banned consumer products under the Consumer Product Safety Act.
The town of Yecapixtla is well known for its version of the dish, which varies from region to region.
The name of the sausage comes from the custom of curing the sausages in a smokehouse attached to the chimney up on the roof truss of Tyrolean houses.
Other equipment present on the board may include cheese knives for guests to serve themselves, spoons and ramekins for portioning and holding spreads, and labels for the various meats and cheeses to help inform guests.
The dish was sometimes boiled or simmered before or after straining, and sometimes left uncooked, depending on the recipe.
Chistorra (pronounced [tʃis̺ˈtora], Basque: txistor) is a type of fast-cure sausage from Navarre, Spain.
Useful in all smoking applications and with any kind of animal protein, it is best used with fish where the flesh of a fish such as salmon forms a pellicle that will attract more smoke to adhere to it than would be the case if it had not been used.
Salt-cured on its own, it becomes lardo in Italy and salo in Eastern Europe; szalonna in Hungary is salted and smoked.
The enzymes involved are proteinases (cathepsins—B, D, H & L, and calpains) and exopeptidases (peptidase and aminopeptidase).
fermentum also have been successfully applied as probiotics Limosilactobacilli are heterofermentative and produce lactate, CO2, and acetate or ethanol from glucose; several limosilactobacilli, particularly strains of Lm.
In the soap industry and among soap-making hobbyists, the name tallowate is used informally to refer to soaps made from tallow.
History and etymology The technique of smoke-drying jalapeños can be traced back to the early food preservation practices used in Mesoamerica, even before the Aztecs.
Latin America The word cecina is also used to name other kinds of dried or cured meat in Latin America.
Dried fish most commonly cod or haddock, known as Harðfiskur, is a delicacy in Iceland, while dried reindeer meat is a traditional Sámi food.
Similarly, Wisconsin Hmong American chef Diane Moua recalled: "I remember vividly my grandma making Hmong sausage.
Pâté, terrine, galantine, roulade Pâté and terrines are often cooked in a pastry crust or an earthenware container.
Founded as Les Trois Petits Cochons, French for "Three Little Pigs," the company trademarked the name derived from the fairy-tale in 1996.
Today, ham is defined as coming from the hind portion of the pig and brine specifically for curing ham includes a greater amount of sugar, while bacon is less sweet, though ingredients such as brown sugar or maple syrup are used for flavour.
Cooked ham joints are a popular dish around Christmas time, particularly in the Anglosphere and Northern Europe.
Dahi puri is another snack from India which is especially popular from the city of Mumbai in the state of Maharashtra and in the Ahmedabad city of Gujarat state.
Originating in Northern Vietnam and now popular throughout the country, more or less similar forms of preparation like this dish also exist in many other cuisines around the world.
Examples Though any food served before the main course is technically an hors d'oeuvre, the phrase is generally limited to individual items, such as cheese or fruit.
national frozen pork belly inventory totaled 17.8 million lb (8.1 million kg), the lowest level in 50 years.
In recent years, some commercial producers have begun using large gas dryers and artificial smoke flavoring, which expedites the drying process but produces a less flavorful chipotle.
After salting and cooking in fat, confit can last for several months or years when sealed and stored in a cool, dark place.
The screw compresses the food against a set of knives pressing against a fixed plate with holes in it.
The pellicle plays a role in producing better smoked products as it acts as a protective barrier for the food and also plays a role in enhancing the flavor and color produced by the smoke.
Commentators explain this surging interest in bacon by reference to what they deem American cultural characteristics.
About Hmong sausage in relation to the difficult background of Hmong immigrants, Minnesota Hmong American chef Yia Vang said: "This sausage is redemption...
This is the temperature of the burning wood itself, not of the smoking environment, which uses much lower temperatures.
Glucono-δ-lactone (GDL), also known as gluconolactone, is an organic compound with the formula −CH(CH2OH)(CHOH)3C(O)O−.
Dinner salads Main course salads (known as dinner salads or as entrée salads in the United States) may contain small pieces of poultry, seafood, or steak.
Algeria Merguez Argentina Bondiola Chorizo Longaniza Morcilla Australia Bunnings sausage/democracy sausage (or snags); see sausage sizzle Chipolata Devon (also known as 'Polony' or 'Fritz') Kanga Bangas Saveloy Austria Blunze Bratwurst Braunschweiger, also called Dürre.
It is a white to slightly yellowish crystalline powder that is very soluble in water and is hygroscopic.
Along with hardtack and corned beef, salt pork was a standard ration for many militaries and navies throughout the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries, seeing usage in the American Civil War, War of 1812, and the Napoleonic Wars, among others.
Nitrite reacts with the meat's myoglobin by attaching to the heme iron atom, forming reddish-brown nitrosomyoglobin and the characteristic pink "fresh" color of nitrosohemochrome or nitrosyl-heme upon cooking.
This process was later combined with pre-curing the food in salt or salty brine, resulting in a remarkably effective preservation process that was adapted and developed by numerous cultures around the world.
The salt content in dry-cured ham varies throughout a piece of meat, with gradients determinable through sampling and testing or non-invasively through CT scanning.
Lapsang souchong that is produced in Taiwan is often referred to as tarry lapsang souchong or lapsang souchong crocodile.
Pliante Thin slices of meat pressed together or folded, typically alternating in colour or texture, with fat layered between.
For added flavouring and better preservation, the slabs of salo may be covered with a thick layer of paprika (usually in the more Western lands; in Russian, salo with paprika is called "Hungarian"), minced garlic, or sometimes black pepper.
Typically, a sausage is formed in a casing traditionally made from intestine, but sometimes synthetic.
As the artistic qualities of food presentation have become important, the chef must be able to produce foods that both taste good and look good.
The classic dish of quenelles de brochet Nantua or simply quenelles Nantua consists of pike quenelles with sauce Nantua, both pike and crayfish being specialties of the Nantua area.
The first pūpū platters were eggrolls, chicken wings, spare ribs as well as other Chinese-American foods.
The sausages average 40 cm (16 in) in length, though there are cases when they reach up to 1 m (3 ft 3 in) long.
Hot links originate in New Orleans where they are called "hot sausage" by their English name while their French name is chaurice, which derives from its origin, the chorizo sausage brought by the Spaniards to colonial Louisiana.
For instance, among Ukrainians a pig would not be skinned after slaughtering, but instead its skin would be scorched on a fire, the fat would be cut into slabs, and blood removed from the animal would be used to make blood sausage.
During World War II, American soldiers were introduced to regional charcuteries and cheeses of France, Italy, Germany, and Greece and helped proliferate an interest in European cuisines when they returned home.
Country-style A combination of pork and pork fat, often with the addition of pork liver and garnish ingredients.
Culture Many Hmong Americans express that making and eating traditional Hmong foods such as sausage connects them to their identity and family history.
The negative effects are presumed to be caused by nitrates and nitrites, as well as nitrosamines which are formed by nitrites reacting with meat.
Cellulose and hemicellulose are aggregate sugar molecules; when burnt, they effectively caramelize, producing carbonyls, which provide most of the color components and sweet, flowery, and fruity aromas.
In North America, this smoking method is commonly referred to as "barbecuing", "pit baking", or "pit roasting".
Fatback is a layer of subcutaneous fat taken from under the skin of the back of a domestic pig, with or without the skin (referred to as pork rind).
Mexico In Mexico, most cecina is of two kinds: sheets of marinated beef, and a pork cut that is sliced or butterflied thin and coated with chili pepper (this type is called cecina enchilada or carne enchilada).
The church opposes special privileges to religions because religious people are somehow superior to for having strange beliefs.
Hams can only be labeled "honey-cured" if honey was at least 50% of the sweetener used, is at least 3% of the formula, and has a discernible effect on flavour.
See also Salt pork Szalonna, Hungarian salt pork Lardo, Italian salt pork Charcuterie Notes References Further reading Viktoriya Popovych, There Is No Ukraine Without Salo: An Analysis of the Cultural and Social Significance of Salo in Ukraine, Compass, 2023, vol 3, issue 1, pp.
When salo has been aged too long or exposed to light, the fat may oxidize on the surface and become rancid, yellow, and bitter-tasting.
An important part of Chicago-style barbecue, they are commonly available at soul food barbecue restaurants on the city's West Side and South Side, often served with French fries and white bread.
Alternatives Several alternatives to and substitutes for bacon have been developed for those who cannot or prefer not to eat standard pork bacon, including beef, chicken, turkey, bison, soy, and coconut bacon.
It can be infused once, for 3 to 5 minutes, with 2 to 3 grams (one tablespoon) of loose-leaf tea per 150 millilitres (2⁄3 cup) of water used, or through multiple infusions using 5 grams for 30 seconds to one minute at a time in 110 millilitres of water.
However, when 10% of the meal is fat, the effect reverses, and ascorbic acid markedly increases nitrosamine formation.
This tradition soon became the 5-cent beer and free lunch in early America before prohibition ended the custom.
The official symbol of the organization is two pieces of bacon praying with the sun in the background.
Tradition The 21st of December in the Basque Country is the day of Santo Tomás, during this day in all the cities you can see stalls of artisanal products among which, for being the typical food of the day, the talo, the chistorra and the cider or sagardoa as a usual accompaniment.
The Walser people, who also occupied other Alpine territories, such as the Grisons and Ticino, are sometimes credited for this speciality.
However, a variety of monoids has the property that all its members are compact if and only if all finitely generated members satisfy the maximal condition on congruences (any family of congruences, ordered by inclusion, has a maximal element).
If balancing is used at any point, it is used for all points below it on the following list ("to the right" in traditional wording of the deranking hierarchy) Relevant clauses for each example are italicised.
A secondary predicate is a (mostly adjectival) predicative expression that conveys information about the subject or the object but is not the main predicate of the clause.
They qualify as an abstract family of languages (furthermore a full AFL) and hence satisfy many closure properties.
The block has four standardized variants defined to specify emoji-style (U+FE0F VS16) or text presentation (U+FE0E VS15) for the two emoji, both of which default to a text presentation.
For many people, the notion of agency is easy to grasp intuitively but difficult to define: typical qualities that a grammatical agent often has are that it has volition, is sentient or perceives, causes a change of state, or moves.
(The act of killing Edward is good to fear) "I'm glad I'm a man, and so is Lola" from the song "Lola" by the Kinks (written by Ray Davies) Lola and I are both glad I'm a man.
Kai is the most frequent word in any Greek text, and thus used by statisticians to assess authorship of ancient manuscripts based on the number of times it is used.
Syntactic ambiguity Demonstrations of ambiguity between alternative syntactic structures underlying a sentence.
An example is the following, which is from a letter by an ex-consul Servius Sulpicius Rufus to Cicero: circiter hōrā decimā noctis P.
This practice, known as address munging, attempts to make the email addresses less vulnerable to spam programs that scan the internet for them.
In the Romance languages, the demonstrative pro-forms function as correlatives with the relative pro-forms, as autant–que in French; in English, demonstratives are not used in such constructions, which depend on the relative only: "I saw what you did", rather than *"I saw that, what you did".
Given the restriction to one specific area of the Indo-European world, it may have been a dialectal regionalism within the proto-language.
The modal semantics of the augmentless forms may then be a later development within Indo-Iranian or Indo-Aryan.
If p = f(q) for some patterns p, q ∈ P* and some substitution f, then p is said to be less general than q, written p≤q; in that case, necessarily |p| ≥ |q| holds.
While the "universal grinder" can be used in many Indo-European languages, most particularly English and Dutch, it does not apply in all languages; there is considerable cross-linguistic variation in the morphology and semantics of the mass/count and singular/plural distinctions.
Like any top-down recursive descent parsing, the conventional parser combinators (like the combinators described above) will not terminate while processing a left-recursive grammar (e.g.
In 2017, Marian Wilson Kimber published a book focusing on the once-popular female dominated genre of elocution set to musical accompaniment.
See also Kaige revision, group of Greek-language Septuagint Bible versions that frequently use Koine Greek: και γε [kai ge] ('and indeed').
An anankastic conditional is a grammatical construction of the form If you want X, you have to do Y.
Honorifics Many languages express person with different morphemes in order to distinguish degrees of formality and informality.
In Icelandic, it is referred to as atmerkið ("the at sign") or hjá, which is a direct translation of the English word at.
A system of equations is a subset E of the Cartesian product X∗ × X∗ of the free monoid (finite strings) over X with itself.
Based on this algorithm, the class of pattern languages can be identified in the limit from positive examples.
Basic idea In any programming language that has first-class functions, parser combinators can be used to combine basic parsers to construct parsers for more complex rules.
Against Locke, he held that language is involved in the creation of ideas and is not merely a medium to communicate them.
Different forms Globally ambiguous A globally ambiguous sentence is one that has at least two distinct interpretations and where reading the entire sentence does not resolve the ambiguity.
About the book The book is used by English language students, especially those from non-English-speaking countries, as a practice and reference book.
It appears in the titles of some stage and screen works, especially comedies and musicals; examples include the game show Jeopardy!; the '60s musical TV show Shindig!; musicals Oklahoma!, Mamma Mia!, Oliver!, and Oh!
It literally means 'water last water' and refers to 'water for washing the hands after meal, grace water'.
Gerald Gazdar (1988) and Vijayashanker (1987) introduced a mildly context-sensitive language class now known as linear indexed grammars (LIG).
For patterns of different length, the above example p = 0x10xx1 and q = xxy shows that L(p) ⊆ L(q) may hold without implying p ≤ q.
This insight revolutionized Arabic literary theory, Qurʾanic exegesis (tafsīr), and the philosophy of language.
A central goal in LFG research is to create a model of grammar with a depth which appeals to linguists while at the same time being efficiently parsable and having the rigidity of formalism which computational linguists require.
In English, examples of correlative pairs are both–and, either–or, neither–nor, the–the ("the more the better"), so–that ("it ate so much food that it burst"), and if–then.
Some Algonquian languages and Salishan languages divide the category of third person into two parts: proximate for a more topical third person, and obviative for a less topical third person.
As with indirect questions, the tense of the subjunctive depends on whether the context is present or past.
(Cicero) 'then I showed the tablets to Lentulus and asked if he recognised the seal; he nodded.' quaesīvī ā Catilīnā in nocturnō conventū apud M.
Hopcroft and Ullman (1979) call such nonterminals nullable, and compute them as follows: If a rule A → ε exists, then A is nullable.
However, in the English translation, the determiner the does not have theta-features since English is considered not to assign theta-features to its determiners.
Integrational Lexical Semantics (with Integrational Morphosemantics and Integrational Word Semantics as its parts) combines the psychological and the realist traditions in semantics.
In such cases, attention should be paid to a conclusion's underlying argument so that the language used is both simple and precise.
These correspond to the discourse functions statement, question, exclamation, and command respectively.
Following these studies, it was concluded that the J-rules comprising the syntacto-semantic base of the model proffered a pool of structural possibilities from which all natural languages draw, but that none necessarily uses them all nor the same subset.
Typical Spanish pleonasms Voy a subir arriba – I am going to go up upstairs, "arriba" not being necessary.
This allows the typesetter to distinguish sentence endings from abbreviations and to typeset them differently.
In this regard, semantics focuses on the organization of and action upon information by acting as an intermediary between heterogeneous data sources, which may conflict not only by structure but also context or value.
In 1956, he introduced a clear distinction between generative rules (those of context-free grammars) and transformation rules.
Speech and language processing: an introduction to natural language processing, computational linguistics, and speech recognition.
This correspondence was motivated by commutator identities in group theory due to Philip Hall and Ernst Witt.
Among the most common operations on two languages A and B are the set union A ∪ B, and their concatenation A⋅B.
In the 1980s desktop publishing software provided the average writer with more advanced formatting tools.
Ullman, Introduction to Automata Theory, Languages, and Computation, Addison-Wesley Publishing, Reading Massachusetts, 1979.
Hall set The Hall set is a totally ordered subset of a free non-associative algebra, that is, a free magma.
Not all conditionals of this form have an anankastic interpretation: If you want to eat chocolate, you should try thinking about something else.
It is generally assumed that the augment was originally a separate particle meaning something like "then", added to indicate the past time of a form that was once mostly aspectual, and neutral with respect to tense.
This case carries the basic meaning of "in": for example, "in the house" is talo·ssa in Finnish, maja·s in Estonian, куд·са (kud·sa) in Moksha, etxea·n in Basque, nam·e in Lithuanian, sāt·ā in Latgalian and ház·ban in Hungarian.
In anaphoric binding, an anaphor requires a coreferent antecedent that c-commands the anaphor and that is in the domain of the anaphor.
There are verb forms that possess the same type of person and tense marking as the verb forms used in independent declarative clauses, but differ in mood.
The symbols ⋅ {\displaystyle \cdot } and ≤ {\displaystyle \leq } are also written ⊗ {\displaystyle \otimes } and → {\displaystyle \to } respectively.
Displacement refers to information lost in time and space which allows us to communicate ideas relating to the past or future (not just the now), and that have taken or can take place at a separate location (from here).
The perfective aspect often includes a contextual variation similar to an inchoative aspect or verb, and expresses the beginning of a state.
Further, the topic of normativity in a discourse or a social norm both contribute to how a conversation functions.
Language equations are mathematical statements that resemble numerical equations, but the variables assume values of formal languages rather than numbers.
In English Modal adjectives can express modality regarding a situation or a participant in that situation.
For example, "the team is in the dressing room" (formal agreement) refers to the team as an ensemble, while "the team are fighting among themselves" (notional agreement) refers to the team as individuals.
Although it is not covered under "Unified Ideographs", it is treated as a CJK character for all other intents and purposes.
Subordination deranking hierarchy Languages that use deranking for their subordinate-clause verb forms do so according to a definite pattern.
For participants, however, the usual syntactic construction has the adjective phrase in attributive modifier function, as in the following examples, where the modal adjective is again in bold and this time the participant in underlined.
According to Robert Kowalski, an early developer of Prolog, the first Prolog system was developed in 1972 by Alain Colmerauer and Phillipe Roussel.
Ancient Greek has words that are formally similar to the Sanskrit injunctive mood, consisting of aorist and imperfect forms lacking the augment.
The class of compact semigroups is not closed under taking morphic images or infinite direct products.
Interactional linguistics asks research questions such as "How are linguistic patterns shaped by interaction?" and "How do linguistic patterns themselves shape interaction?".
So while there may not be a morphologically based alethic mood, this does not seem to preclude the usefulness of distinguishing between these two types of modes.
The last axiom can be written equivalently as a•(a → a)* ≤ a, a form which makes its role as induction more apparent.
The verb [send], which moves to the empty V position, has two thematic roles that are assigned to the internal arguments theme: [a letter] and goal [to Mary].
Greek The predominant scholarly view on the prehistory of the augment is that it was originally a separate grammatical particle, although dissenting opinions have occasionally been voiced.
There are verb forms that have the same distinctions of person, tense and aspect as are found in main-clause verbs, but which indicate them using special forms distinct from those of main clause verbs.
EAGs are a member of the family of two-level grammars; more specifically, a restriction of Van Wijngaarden grammars with the specific purpose of making parsing feasible.
See also Eggan's theorem and Generalized star height sections of the Star height article Star height problem References Janusz A.
Unlike SPARQL, SQL query, which reflects the specific structure of the database and derived from matching the relevant primary and foreign keys of tables, loses the semantics of the query by missing the relationships between entities.
Definition An action algebra (A, ∨, 0, •, 1, ←, →, *) is an algebraic structure such that (A, ∨, •, 1, ←, →) forms a residuated semilattice in the sense of Ward and Dilworth, while (A, ∨, 0, •, 1, *) forms a Kleene algebra in the sense of Dexter Kozen.
Resultatives are distinct from depictive constructions, though often both a resultative and a depictive reading is possible from the same sentence.
Parser combinators enable a recursive descent parsing strategy that facilitates modular piecewise construction and testing.
A study guide is placed at the end of the book, which contains exercises that when solved reveal what topics student needs improvement on, and suggests the unit numbers the student should study; and thus the reader can figure out which units to study and which to omit.
In computer science, extended affix grammars (EAGs) are a formal grammar formalism for describing the context free and context sensitive syntax of language, both natural language and programming languages.
They use U+FE00 VARIATION SELECTOR-1 (VS01) and U+FE01 VARIATION SELECTOR-2 (VS02): Orientation Quotation marks and other punctuation have expected differences in behaviour in vertical and horizontal text.
Though the book was titled as a self-study reference, the publisher states that the book is also suitable for reinforcement work in the classroom.
The remaining five cases are: Elative case ("out of") Illative case ("into") Allative case ("onto") Adessive case ("on") Ablative case ("from") Finnish The Finnish language inessive uses the suffix -ssa or -ssä (depending on vowel harmony).
In computing, an unparser is a system that constructs a set of characters or image components from a given parse tree.
A particularly long example is the opening stanza (lines 1-22) of Walt Whitman's "Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking"; another is the opening sentence of Milton's Paradise Lost.
Modern Hebrew shm- is traceable back to Yiddish, and is found in English as well as shm-reduplication.
and Joomla!, and the online game Kahoot!, although some media style guides, including those of Reuters and The Economist, omit such marks from trade names.
Names for categories of a given idiolect system are then derived from such relational terms: the expression 'verb of SE' denotes the set of all verbs of SE (a category), i.e., denotes the set of all linguistic entities that are related to idiolect system SE by the relation [is a ]verb[ of].
Alethic modality is often associated with epistemic modality in research, and it has been questioned whether this modality should be considered distinct from epistemic modality which denotes the speaker's evaluation or judgment of the truth.
In "Presupposition and Anaphora: Remarks on the Formulation of the Projection Problem", the philosopher Saul Kripke noted that some presupposition triggers do not seem to permit such accommodation.
For a regular language, its generalized star height is defined as the minimum nesting depth of Kleene stars needed in order to describe the language by means of a generalized regular expression, hence the name of the problem.
Criticism Refutation from necessary truths Scott Soames has harshly criticized truth-conditional semantics on the grounds that it is either wrong or uselessly circular.
Although not present in the original ALGOL 60 report (instead introduced a few years later in IBM's PL/I definition), the notation is now universally recognised.
Steven Pinker explored this question in a popular science format in a 2007 book on language and cognition, using a widely publicized example from a speech by a U.S.
In the UK, the term pling was popular in the earlier days of computing, whilst in the United States, the term shriek was used.
where thinking about something else is not required in order to eat chocolate, but is rather advice on how to avoid eating chocolate.
The distinction made by the translocative is similar to the distinction made in "I went and bought things".
In philosophy of language Philosophical work on language from the mid-20th century, such as that of J.L.
In Western society, grammar was long regarded as a subject for teaching rather than scientific study; descriptions were informal and targeted at practical usage.
For example, a declarative form can be used to ask a question, and interrogative form can be used to make a statement.
An empty result set indicates that the recognizer failed to recognize any sequence beginning at index j.
Sheridan had a lot of ground to cover, being one of the first to establish standard ideas about this subject.
START: Eliminate the start symbol from right-hand sides Introduce a new start symbol S0, and a new rule S0 → S, where S is the previous start symbol.
The juxtaposition is taken to be non-associative and non-commutative, so that parenthesis must necessarily be used, when juxtaposing three or more elements.
Full knowledge of these plurals can come only with extended exposure to the Arabic language, though a few rules can be noted.
A substitution is a mapping f: P* → P* such that f is a homomorphism with respect to string concatenation (⋅), formally: ∀p,q∈P*.
In his journal, Thoreau criticized those sentences as the "weak and flowing periods of the politician and scholar." Rhetorical and literary usage Periodic sentences are rooted in the rhetorical techniques of Isocrates, who focused on a natural style that imitated how people speak.
(Depictive over the object, or "object-oriented depictive") Alternative views Optional depictive secondary predicates are viewed as "predicative adjuncts" by some linguists.
See also Chomsky hierarchy References External links "NLP in Prolog" chapter on indexed grammars and languages
Colorless green ideas sleep furiously (Noam Chomsky): example that is grammatically correct but based on semantic combinations that are contradictory and therefore would not normally occur.
You almost killed her!' As in British English, a bracketed exclamation mark may be used to indicate irony or surprise at a statement: Dice que esta noche no va a salir de fiesta (!), 'He said that he's not going to a party tonight(!).' Such use is not matched by an inverted opening exclamation mark.
The infinite regress is now avoided because after QR, the antecedent VP contains just the verb read.
This is analogous to, and generalizes the better-known case of factorization with Lyndon words provided by the Chen–Fox–Lyndon theorem.
In linguistics, universal grinder is the idea that in some languages, most count nouns can be used as if they were mass nouns, which causes a slight change in their meaning.
In such a language, "A circle can't be square", "can't be" would be expressed by an alethic mood, whereas for "He can't be that wealthy", "can't be" would be expressed by an epistemic mood.
These may be resultative, as in (1) and (2) or descriptive (also called "depictive") as in (3) and (4).
Unparsing generally involves the application of a specific set of rules to the parse tree as a "tree walk" takes place.
It was also motivated by a more algebraic viewpoint: the definition of a pregroup is a weakening of that of a group, introducing a distinction between the left and right inverses and replacing the equality by an order.
Modern Greek Unaccented syllabic augment disappeared in some dialects during the Byzantine period as a result of the loss of unstressed initial syllables, this feature being inherited by Standard Modern Greek.
However, after the subsequent global war erupted in 1939, the phrase Great War was gradually deprecated.
Early Western phonosemantics The idea of phonosemantics was sporadically discussed during the Middle Ages and the Renaissance.
It contrasts passive and active points of view in how humanity interacts with the world, relying either on a subjective perspective that reflects a point of view or an objective perspective that takes a more detached perspective.
In the 1990s, when the Internet became widely popular and email accounts' instant delivery common, mail carried by the postal service came to be called "snail mail" for its slower delivery compared to email.
When coupled with a possessive suffix, the result can be like in standard Finnish "maassani, talossani" or a shorter "maasani, talosani" depending on the dialect: the former is more common in Tavastian and southeastern dialects while the latter is more common in southwestern dialects.
– Police officers from Police, Poland, whom police officers from Police patrol, patrol police officers from Police.
In mathematics, a compact semigroup is a semigroup in which the sets of solutions to equations can be described by finite sets of equations.
Another Hittite s-present form, tákšzi ("to devise, endeavor"), which possibly derives from *téḱ-s-ti, may parallel the Latin s-present texō ("to weave").
The word agent comes from the present participle agens, agentis ('the one doing') of the Latin verb agere, to 'do' or 'make'.
Such anomalous behavior is not possible in an action algebra, which forces a* to be the least transitive reflexive element.
Elements such as "it" or "there", serving as empty subject markers, are also called (syntactic) expletives, or dummy pronouns.
Here, generalized regular expressions are defined like regular expressions, but they have a built-in complement operator.
Just prior to his inauguration as president, Gerald Ford and an entourage of VIPs visited the development site to receive a briefing on the concept and progress of the work.
Fundamentally, words that specify a spatio-temporal demarcation of their reference are considered bounded, while words that allow for a fluidly interpretable referent are considered unbounded.
to a model which must now also make explicit the connection between mind and reality in a general way among a profusion of data types systematically written upon by mind in the "cold and dreary" world itself.
Modern literature Typography Early positions on typography (the "arrangement and appearance of text") supported traditional spacing techniques in English publications.
Defining a to be reflexive when 1 ≤ a and transitive when a•a ≤ a by abstraction from binary relations, the first two of those equations force a* to be reflexive and transitive while the third forces a* to be greater or equal to a.
These nouns formed the basis for later denominative verbs, such as axō ("to name"), which ultimately derives from an s-enlargement of the root *h₁eǵ- (“to say”) that is also continued by Tocharian B ākṣäṃ (“will announce”).
The different forms involve different combinations in word order, the addition of certain auxiliaries or particles, or other times by providing a special form.
Supplemental operators effect the requirements of data management in mental modeling and conversational settings, corresponding in large part to the conventional classification of deixis.
It was given the subtitle "Episode IV: A New Hope" for its 1981 theatrical re-release, shortly after the release of its sequel The Empire Strikes Back in 1980.
See also Formal semantics Montague grammar Proof-theoretic semantics Dynamic semantics Inquisitive semantics Alfred Tarski Notes References M.
His proposal led to the FrameNet project which produced the first major computational lexicon that systematically described many predicates and their corresponding roles.
"The word of the Lord came to Zechariah, son of Berekiah, son of Iddo, the prophet." – Zechariah 1:7 ...
In the philosophy of language, semantic externalism (the opposite of semantic internalism) is the view that the meaning of a term is determined, in whole or in part, by factors external to the speaker.
– Indicated reading impossible In these cases, the pronoun has to look outside of the embedded clause containing it to the matrix clause to find its antecedent.
The assessment process is fast if their semantic features are similar, which is the case if the example is a prototype of the general category.
"BNF Web Club", DB research, CH: Unige, archived from the original on 2007-01-24, retrieved 2007-01-25, freely available BNF grammars for SQL, Ada, Java.
A more convenient notation exists, however, that indicates contractions by connecting them with a drawn link between the contracting types (provided that the links are nested, i.e.
UNIT: Eliminate unit rules A unit rule is a rule of the form A → B, where A, B are nonterminal symbols.
In particular, in the case of compilations, this soundness guarantees the possibility of proceeding with separate compilation of components, while completeness guarantees the possibility of de-compilation.
Like Van Wijngaarden grammars, EAGs have hyperrules that form a context-free grammar except in that their nonterminals may have arguments, known as affixes, the possible values of which are supplied by another context-free grammar, the metarules.
Semantic integration can also be used to facilitate design-time activities of interface design and mapping.
Because of this, computational parsers have been developed and LFG has also been used as the theoretical basis of various machine translation tools, such as AppTek's TranSphere, and the Julietta Research Group's Lekta.
A review of the 2nd edition noted that the book "continues to be the most accurate and complete reference grammar available for advanced English-speaking learners of German".
Negation of a sentence containing a presupposition If presuppositions of a sentence are not consistent with the actual state of affairs, then one of two approaches can be taken.
This system is not fully regular, and it is used mainly for masculine non-human nouns; human nouns are pluralized regularly or irregularly.
When an ordinarily uncountable noun such as wine appears with plural form (several wines), it can be understood as referring to various abstract kinds (for example, varieties of wine).
Elocution emerged in England in the 18th and 19th centuries and in the United States during the 19th century.
In particular, government categories, given through classifications in the Lexical Word Ordering and contained in the marking structure, are crucial to identifying the values of the complement functions relative to the syntactic quadruple.
And since the truth conditions of any unnecessarily true sentence are equivalent to the conjunction of those truth conditions and any necessary truth, any sentence means the same as its meaning plus a necessary truth.
It is told in the work Ujishūi Monogatari that the Japanese poet Ono no Takamura used this reading to escape death.
Thus, the syntactic quotient is a monoid morphism, and induces a quotient monoid M ( S ) = M / ≡ S {\displaystyle M(S)=M\ /\ {\equiv _{S}}} .
Externalism is generally thought to be a necessary consequence of any causal theory of reference; since the causal history of a term is not internal, the involvement of that history in determining the term's referent is enough to satisfy the externalist thesis.
Later scholars such as al-Sakkākī and Jalāl al-Din Qazwīnī would build upon al-Jurjānī's theories, developing balāgha into a formal science with its own subdivisions — a structure still taught in traditional Islamic seminaries across the Muslim world today.
To avoid this problem, Sag (1976) proposed that the NP every book that Mary did undergoes quantifier raising (QR) to a position above the verb.
To address this, it has been claimed that the resultative expresses both a state and the preceding action it has resulted from.
Ringe reconstructs for this formation the ablaut paradigm *(é)-(h₁)s-eti ~ *(é)-(h₁)s-onti, which contains the accented full grade of the root.
In the oldest attested daughter languages, such as Vedic Sanskrit and early Greek, it is used optionally.
The system E is satisfiable in S if there is a map f from X to S, which extends to a semigroup morphism f from X+ to S, such that for all (u,v) in E we have f(u) = f(v) in S.
The local binding domain that is decisive for the distribution of reflexive and reciprocal pronouns is also decisive for personal pronouns, but in a different way.
Comparisons and contrasts Comparisons and contrasts may be marked by stress (or by other prosodic means), by particles like "too", or by comparatives constructions.
External links Lexical Functional Grammar Home Page Proceedings of the annual LFG conference Julietta Research Group, Lekta Manual Lexical Functional Grammar course lectures on YouTube, Prof Miriam Butt, University of Konstanz
This category is attested in Pama–Nyungan languages, where it was first discovered (Koch 1984, Wilkins 1991), in Tacanan, in rGyalrong languages, and in Panoan languages.
The syntactic congruence or Myhill congruence is defined as s ≡ S t ⇔ ( ∀ x , y ∈ M : x s y ∈ S ⇔ x t y ∈ S ) {\displaystyle s\equiv _{S}t\ \Leftrightarrow \ (\forall x,y\in M\colon \ xsy\in S\Leftrightarrow xty\in S)} .
Al-Jurjānī's reputation drew students from across the Islamic world, earning the title “Imam of Arabic” in recognition of his mastery and authority in the field.
Order of transformations When choosing the order in which the above transformations are to be applied, it has to be considered that some transformations may destroy the result achieved by other ones.
Joseph Greenberg hypothesizes that the distance between the possessor and possessee in a sentence with alienable possession is greater than in a sentence with inalienable constructions.
His Twin Earth thought experiment, from the aforementioned paper, is widely cited to illustrate his argument for externalism to this day.
Thus in the first of the sentences below, the future infinitive is used in an accusative and infinitive construction, but in the second, the simple present infinitive is used with no accusative: L.
External links "Summary of Disagreements Between at-Taftazani and al-Jurrujani" is an Arabic work, dating from 1805, which compares Abd al-Qahir al-Jurjani's work to the work of Taftazani Works by Abd al-Qahir al-Jurjani at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks)
Donald Winford conducted a study that measured the phonological hypercorrection in creolization of English speakers in Trinidad.
(2020) demonstrated that in the languages around the world, certain concepts in the basic vocabulary (such as the Swadesh list or the Leipzig–Jakarta list) tend to be represented by words containing certain sounds.
For example, um shmum (או״ם־שמו״ם‎), literally 'United Nations shm-United Nations', was a pejorative description by Israel's first Prime Minister, David Ben-Gurion, of the United Nations, called in Modern Hebrew umot meukhadot (אומות מאוחדות‎) and abbreviated um (או״ם‎).
In linguistics, dative shift refers to a pattern in which the subcategorization of a verb can take on two alternating forms, the oblique dative form or the double object construction form.
Scholarly considerations Some modern scholars caution that equating the kalām categories directly with the alethic modalities of formal logic risks overlooking important differences of context, aim, and terminology.
Since many prefixes and suffixes in English are of Latin or Greek etymology, it is straightforward to add a prefix or suffix from one language to an English word that comes from a different language, thus creating a hybrid word.
For instance, in the sentence "I read every book that you did", the verb phrase in the main clause appears to license ellipsis inside the relative clause which modifies its object.
Some scholars use the phrase universal packager to refer to both the concrete and abstract understanding of plural nouns; others use it to refer only to the concrete sense, and use universal sorter for abstract meaning.
Kai is a word that is a conjunction meaning "and" in Ancient Greek (καί, kaí, [kǎi̯]), Modern Greek (και, kai, [ce]), Coptic (ⲕⲁⲓ, kai, [cɛ]) and Esperanto (kaj, [kai̯]).
According to causal theories, meaning is determined by causes and effects, which behaviorist semantics analyzes in terms of stimulus and response.
Exceptions can be found only amongst certain rigidly head-marking languages such as Ainu and Lakhota.
– Bison (the plural of "buffalos" or "buffalo" is also accepted) from Buffalo, New York, whom bison from Buffalo bully, bully bison from Buffalo.
This approach to semantics is principally associated with Donald Davidson, and attempts to carry out for the semantics of natural language what Tarski's semantic theory of truth achieves for the semantics of logic.
The difficulty is further illustrated with the tree for the sentence: The light grey font indicates the elided constituent, i.e.
Applications and methods In enterprise application integration (EAI), semantic integration can facilitate or even automate the communication between computer systems using metadata publishing.
As a system of oppositions This approach suggests the idea of viewing resultativeness as a system of oppositions.
This differs from similar constructions using the dative marker [-eyse/eykeyse] that indicates a locative or source argument.
A cognitive description specifies what information is utilized during a cognitive action, how this information is processed and transformed, what data structures are used, and what behaviour is generated.
It's also possible that the modal semantics developed in the parent language and later developments in Pre-Greek removed them and put back the basic meaning of the aorist and imperative, by analogy.
That is why some contextualists prefer to talk about 'truth-conditional pragmatics' instead of semantics.
In 1996, Frost and Szydlowski demonstrated how memoization can be used with parser combinators to reduce the time complexity to polynomial.
Some high-level preprocessors, such as OCaml's Camlp4, also involve encoding of a programming language into another.
However, any two patterns p and q, of arbitrary lengths, generate the same language if and only if they are equal up to consistent variable renaming.
Shingon Buddhism Kūkai, the founder of Shingon, wrote his Sound, word, reality in the 9th century which relates all sounds to the voice of the Dharmakaya Buddha.
For example, contingency may be expressed as We've made an offer contingent on the sale of our house, which can be paraphrased as Our offer stands if and only if we sell our house.
The second interpretation is that la main is an alienable object and does not belong to the subject.
In cases that a metonymic shift would be revealed nearby, the whole sentence should be recast to avoid the metonymy.
This distinction also relies on the divisibility of the lexical item's referent into distinct segments, or strata.
The quotation marks 「...」, 『...』 and 〝...〟 rotate 90 degrees, as follows: See also General Punctuation, for variation selectors and CJK behaviour of the Latin quotation marks ‘...’ and “...”.
In linguistics, a broken plural (or internal plural) is an irregular plural form of a noun or adjective found in the Semitic languages and other Afroasiatic languages such as the Berber languages.
Because target structuring was generable directly by the powerful J-rule base component and its array of linguistic operators, structure-oriented transformations required to combine kernel sentences or otherwise manipulate constituent structure were no longer required.
In such cases the "master unparser" looks up the "master unparse table" to determine if a given nested structure should be handled by one module, or the other.
One frequently found difference not present in most Indo-European languages is a contrast between inclusive and exclusive "we": a distinction of first-person plural pronouns between including or excluding the addressee.
Wolfgang Imo has coined the term Interactional Construction Grammar on the recognition of similarities between construction grammar and interactional linguistics.
An action is perceived as a whole within a predication or it could be perceived as the predication within the boundaries.
In the model, the other possible structures of an ambiguous sentence compete in a race, with the structure that is constructed fastest being used.
ISBN 9780578944173.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: numeric names: authors list (link) (pages 171-183 of section 7.1: Chomsky Normal Form) Sipser, Michael.
For example, the term acoustic guitar was coined with the advent of the electric guitar, analog watch was introduced to distinguish from the digital watch, push bike was created to distinguish from the motorized bicycle, and feature phone was coined to distinguish from the smartphone.
In contrast, in semantic ambiguity the structure remains the same, but the individual words are interpreted differently.
Foreign words may also be hybridized with Chinese or Japanese readings in slang words such as 高層ビル kōsōbiru "high-rise building" (on-on-katakana) and 飯テロ meshitero "food terrorism" (kun-katakana).
Whereas Universal Grammar claims that features of grammar are innate, emergent grammar and other interactional theories claim that the human language faculty has no innate grammar and that features of grammar are learned through experience and social interaction.
two coffees may mean "two cups of coffee"), or as naming abstract kinds (two coffees can also refer to e.g.
Roberts refers to the question of why a particular organism out of all the organisms that happen to exist happens to be you as the "Even Harder Problem of Consciousness".
Modal adjectives are adjectives, such as likely, probable and necessary, that express modality, i.e., possibility, necessity, or contingency.
The use of some transitive verbs denoting strictly reciprocal events may involve a conflation of agent and subject.
"La catégorie du 'mouvement associé' en cavineña: apport à une typologie de l'encodage du mouvement et de la trajectoire".
With the improvement of technology, linguists have started to focus on spoken language as well due to its functions in intonation and transcription system.
A nominal that is [-anaphor, +pronominal] is a pronoun, such as he or they, and a nominal that is [+anaphor, -pronominal] is a reflexive pronoun, such as himself or themselves.
Finally, as an operation taking a single operand, the set A* denotes the Kleene star of the language A.
In linguistics, a grammatical person distinguishes between deictic references to one or more participants in an event.
It will be perceived as a verbal clarification, since the word "tuna" is quite short, and may, for example, be misheard as "tune" followed by an aspiration, or (in dialects that drop the final -r sound) as "tuner".
John might be mistaken about his belief that I have a wife, or he might be deliberately trying to misinform his audience, and this has an effect on the meaning of the second sentence, but, perhaps surprisingly, not on the first one.
The remedy proposed was to switch to the much simpler Affix Grammar over a Finite Lattice (AGFL) instead, in which metagrammars can only produce simple finite languages.
They discerned different kinds of words by their semantic and syntactic roles, such as the contrast between names, common nouns, and verbs.
Similarly, the left syntactic equivalence is s S ∼ t ⇔ s ∖ S = t ∖ S ⇔ ( ∀ y ∈ M : s y ∈ S ⇔ t y ∈ S ) {\displaystyle s\;{}_{S}{\sim }\;t\ \Leftrightarrow \ s\setminus S\;=\;t\setminus S\ \Leftrightarrow \ (\forall y\in M\colon \ sy\in S\Leftrightarrow ty\in S)} .
For representation in electronic texts the kai symbol has its own Unicode positions: GREEK KAI SYMBOL (U+03D7) and GREEK CAPITAL KAI SYMBOL (U+03CF).
The contrast between profile and base is sometimes used to articulate the underlying knowledge structure.
Conversely, rhetorical questions have the form of an interrogative, but they are really statements: Who cares?
In general, it is most convenient to apply the rewrite to the right-most legal drop; however, it can be shown that the rewrite is confluent, and so one obtains the same results no matter what the order.
Agreement in different forms of English Confusion often stems from the way that different forms of English handle agreement with collective nouns—specifically, whether or not to use the collective singular: the singular verb form with a collective noun.
Most central and northern Ostrobothnian dialects as well as some southwestern and Peräpohjola dialects use a shorter suffix -sa/-sä, e.g.
With situations, some usual syntactic patterns include an extraposed subject, such as the underlined elements in the following examples with the modal adjective in bold.
The simple past of English commonly expresses a bounded event ("I found out"), but sometimes expresses, for example, a stative ("I knew").
The term is sometimes also applied to unnecessarily wordy speech in general; this is more usually referred to as prolixity.
Since it is submorphemic, gl- itself is not a morpheme, and it does not form compounds with other morphemes: -eam, -ow, and -are have no meaning of their own.
See also Correlative conjunction Pro-form (namely section Table of correlatives) External links The dictionary definition of correlative at Wiktionary
An unparser is in effect the reverse of a traditional parser that takes a set of string of characters and produces a parse tree.
— For a detailed discussion of the underlying metatheoretic principles, see, in particular, Budde (2000): chapter 1; for an application in a general theory of parts of speech, using German for orientation, see Budde (2000): chapters 2–10.
Antecedent-contained deletion (ACD), also called antecedent-contained ellipsis, is a phenomenon whereby an elided verb phrase appears to be contained within its own antecedent.
(Huddleston & Pullum 2002) References Monica-Alexandrina Irimia (2005) "Types of secondary predication".
Within these structures, the object NP is viewed as having undergone some change of state, and the change is viewed as a result achieved through the action expressed by the combination of the verb and the result phrase.
Other approaches include so-called lexical methods, as well as methodologies that rely on exploiting the structures of the ontologies.
The class of indexed languages has practical importance in natural language processing as a computationally affordable generalization of context-free languages, since indexed grammars can describe many of the nonlocal constraints occurring in natural languages.
Application Arden's rule can be used to help convert some finite automatons to regular expressions, as in Kleene's algorithm.
Some authors, most notably Tom Wolfe, are known for their unashamedly liberal use of the exclamation mark.
Canadian typographer Geoffrey Dowding suggests possible explanations of this phenomenon: A carefully composed text page appears as an orderly series of strips of black separated by horizontal channels of white space.
A periodic sentence is a sentence with a stylistic device featuring syntactical subordination to a single main idea, which usually is not complete until the very end of the sentence.
English Grammar in Use is a self-study reference and practice book for intermediate to advanced students of English.
Homeric Greek In Homer, past-tense (aorist or imperfect) verbs appeared both with and without an augment.
Sharḥ al-Fātiḥa fī Mujallad (Explaining Al-Fatiha in a Volume) Al-Talkhiss bi Sharḥihi (The Brief of Sentence Elucidation) Al-'Umhad fī al-Taṣrīf (The Basis of Morphology) An anthology collection on the works of Abi-tammam, al-Buh'turi, and al-Mutannabī.
These are called quotients, and one may define right or left quotients, depending on which side one is concatenating.
Elocution allowed women to expand their roles in society while both challenging and reinforcing gender roles.
*sye-desiderative Ringe reconstructs this paradigm as *(∅)-sy-éti ~ *(∅)-sy-ónti, though Lundquist and Yates instead reconstruct *h₁s-ye-ti.
A theory of binding should be capable of predicting and explaining the differences in distribution seen in sentences like these.
Given a subset S {\displaystyle S} of a free monoid M {\displaystyle M} , one may define sets that consist of formal left or right inverses of elements in S {\displaystyle S} .
the density of saltwater may read d = 1.050 g/cm3 @ 15 °C (read "at" for @), density of a gas d = 0.150 g/L @ 20 °C, 1 bar, or noise of a car 81 dB @ 80 km/h (speed).
One can generate all of the valid expressions in the language generated by this grammar at a Prolog interpreter by typing sentence(X,[]).
Barss and Lasnik 1986 In their 1986 paper "A Note on Anaphora and Double Objects", Barss and Lasnik point out a number of asymmetries in the behaviour of the two NPs in double object construction.
It typically stood in a main clause and had a subjunctive or imperative meaning; for example, it could indicate intention, e.g.
One study computed the probability that the pattern of vowels in the singular would predict the pattern in the broken plural (or vice versa) and found values ranging from 20% to 100% for different patterns.
Because unbounded nouns refer to internally homogeneous referents, any part of their expansive referent could be analyzed as an instance of that noun.
Languages with associated motion present a contrast between association motion and purposive motion verb constructions, as in the following examples from Japhug Rgyalrong.
See also Named entity recognition Lexical semantics Semantic parsing Syntax tree References Jurafsky, Dan; Martin, James H.
The same proof in this notation is simply A more complex example proves that the dog barked at the cat is grammatical: Historical notes Pregroup grammars were introduced by Joachim Lambek in 1993 as a development of his syntactic calculus, replacing the quotients by adjoints.
Late Proto-Indo-European used the ending *t, which evolved into the English ending -th, as in "young/youth".
The generalized star-height problem in formal language theory is the open question whether all regular languages can be expressed using generalized regular expressions with a limited nesting depth of Kleene stars.
First person includes the speaker (English: I, we), second person is the person or people spoken to (English: your or you), and third person includes all that are not listed above (English: he, she, it, they).
The Atari Video Computer System platform was rebranded the "Atari 2600" (after its product code, CX-2600) in 1982 following the launch of its successor, the Atari 5200, and all hardware and software related to the platform were released under this new branding from that point on.
Nowadays, for most of China's youth, it is called 艾特 (pronounced ài tè), which is a phonetic transcription of at.
Definite articles Subtler cases of syntactic patterns sensitive to alienability are found in many languages.
One common feature of many variants is the use of regular expression repetition operators such as * and +.
See also Classical compound International scientific vocabulary List of Greek and Latin roots in English Phono-semantic matching In Sino-Japanese vocabulary, hybrid words are called jūbako (重箱) or yutō (湯桶); see: Kanji § Other readings == Notes ==
This idea of material transfer is further demonstrated in the following sentences: (18a) Dutch: Vader bood oma zijn arm aan.
Another feature of LFG is that grammatical-function changing operations like passivization are relations between word forms rather than sentences.
This allows us to axiomatize the theory using inequalities yet still have a purely equational axiomatization when the inequalities are expanded to equalities.
Synonyms of "verbosity" include wordiness, verbiage, loquacity, garrulousness, logorrhea, prolixity, grandiloquence, expatiation, sesquipedalianism, and overwriting.
The EAG compiler developed there will generate either a recogniser, a transducer, a translator, or a syntax directed editor for a language described in the EAG formalism.
Transition to single spacing In the early 20th century some printers began using one-and-a-half interword spaces (an "en quad") to separate sentences.
There is nothing "in the head" that could fix his reference thus; rather, he concluded, his linguistic community, containing some speakers who did know the difference between the two trees, ensured that when he said "elm", he referred to elms.
Cognitive description is a term used in psychology to describe the cognitive workings of the human mind.
Other semanticists have argued that anankastic conditionals can be interpreted the same way as "regular, hypothetical, indicative conditionals".
His argument was that if there were any connection between sounds and ideas, then we would all be speaking the same language, but this is an overgeneralisation.
Magiō Cīlōne, familiāre eius, pugiōne percussum esse et duo vulnera accēpisse, ūnum in stomachō, alterum in capite secundum aurem; spērārī tamen eum vīvere posse; Magium sē ipsum interfēcisse posteā; sē ā Mārcellō ad mē missum esse, quī haec nūntiāret et rogāret utī medicōs eī mitterem.
Syntax: Ein internationales Handbuch zeitgenössischer Forschung / An International Handbook of Contemporary Research.
Configuration (c-command) C-command is a configurational notion that acknowledges the syntactic configuration as primitive.
Many automatic semantic role labeling systems have used PropBank as a training dataset to learn how to annotate new sentences automatically.
These units are ordered according to the lesson simplicity, or starts with the basic topics and goes up to more advanced topics.
An inquiry into the 2005 London bombings found that verbosity can be dangerous if used by emergency services.
Other American examples cited include the opening lines of William Cullen Bryant's "A Forest Hymn" and lines 9-16 of his "Thanatopsis".
Through the positing of productive processes in the lexicon and the separation of structure and function, LFG is able to account for syntactic patterns without the use of transformations defined over syntactic structure.
Given that the tree may involve both textual and graphic elements, the unparser may have two separate modules, each of which handles the relevant components.
Overlap: One word's semantic component is subsumed by the other: "Receive a free gift with every purchase."; a gift is usually already free.
Hammer's German Grammar and Usage (ISBN 9781444120165) is an English reference book on German grammar.
In Persian this kind of plural is known by its Arabic term jamʿ-e mokassar (جَمِع مُکَسَّر, literally "broken plural").
Another, more recent, extension was made by researchers at NEC Corporation called Multi-Modal Definite Clause Grammars (MM-DCGs) in 1995.
Uses Semantic role labeling is mostly used for machines to understand the roles of words within sentences.
They introduced the idea in an article called "Definite Clause Grammars for Language Analysis", where they describe DCGs as a "formalism ...
This does not, however, affect the tense later in the sentence: "Cream is a psychedelic rock band who were primarily popular in the 1960s.
The term comes from the Greek ἀναγκαστικός "compulsory", from ἀνάγκη "necessity." Anankastic conditionals have been argued to pose problems for compositional semantics.
In grammar, a correlative is a word that is paired with another word with which it functions to perform a single function but from which it is separated in the sentence.
A Natural History of the @ Sign The many names of the at sign in various languages, 1997, Retrieved June 2013.
If he makes a claim about a property of elm trees, it will be considered true or false, depending upon whether that property applies to those trees which are in fact elms.
Associated motion is a grammatical category whose main function is to associate a motion component to the event expressed by the verbal root.
The grammatical agent is often confused with the subject, but the two notions are quite distinct: the agent is based explicitly on its relationship to the action or event expressed by the verb (e.g.
See also Active–stative language English passive voice Passive voice Patient (grammar) References External links agent (grammar)
Indexed languages are a class of formal languages discovered by Alfred Aho; they are described by indexed grammars and can be recognized by nested stack automata.
CJK Symbols and Punctuation is a Unicode block containing symbols and punctuation used for writing the Chinese, Japanese and Korean languages.
Languages with a relatively free word order such as Sanskrit required to introduce commutation relations to the pregroup, using precyclicity.
Nagel describes the objective perspective as the "view from nowhere", one where the only valuable ideas are ones derived independently.
More specifically, it is an open question whether a nesting depth of more than 1 is required, and if so, whether there is an algorithm to determine the minimum required star height.
However, all of the capabilities or properties of DCGs will be the same for any grammar that is represented with definite clauses in essentially the same way as in Prolog.
icch·á·ti -> aí·cch·a·t urṇó·ti -> aú·rṇo·t ṛdh·nó·ti -> ā́r·dh·no·t Other Phrygian seems to have had an augment.
By contrast, the occurrence of the definite article "the" cannot be modeled by simple probabilistic laws because the number of nouns with definite article depends on the subject matter.
Despite women being heavily involved in the movement, scholarship focusing on women’s involvement has been relatively scarce until recently.
In contrast to advice against verbosity, some editors and style experts suggest that maxims such as "omit needless words" are unhelpful.
However, there are also differences: in classical kalām these modal categories often serve metaphysical or theological ends (e.g., proofs of God’s existence) rather than purely linguistic or semantic ends.
The periodic sentence emphasizes its main idea by placing it at the end, following all the subordinate clauses and other modifiers that support the principal idea.
The specific ratio decidendi of the decision is debated, but the judgments provide guidance and authoritative discussion used in later cases.
Origin and content Legal development Until 1943, the legal basis for abortion in Germany was the Reich Criminal Code passed in 1871 with Sections 218–220, the punishment for which had been softened in a new version passed in 1926.
Washington In 1980, the mother of a mentally incompetent minor petitioned the court for an order authorizing the sterilization of the minor.
All Islamic schools of thought agree that abortion is recommended when the mother's life is in danger as the mother's life is paramount.
When taken within 72 hours of sex without contraception, Plan B and generics can help prevent an unwanted pregnancy.
In October 2013, Religion Dispatches moved to the University of Southern California's Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism's website.
In a 2003 Gallup poll, 72% of respondents were in favor of notification to the husband, with 26% opposed; of those polled, 79% of males and 67% of females responded in favor of notification inside married couples.
The couple claimed on two bases: first, the physical discomfort suffered by the wife from the pregnancy, confinement, and delivery; second, the financial costs for the caring of and bringing up of a child.
Although her name was on the patents for the device, Organon licensed the product to three over-the-counter pharmaceutical companies, and Crane never received a penny for her design.
Young provided evidence that a number of employees received accommodations while suffering similar or more serious disabilities.
Turkey The Constitution of Turkey guarantees security of person, along with the right to liberty, in Article 19, enacted in 1982 and amended in 2001.
Society and culture In 2021, Unicode approved the "pregnant man" and "pregnant person" emojis in version 14.0, and added to Emoji 14.0.
Of those that have ratified it, 12 exceed its provisions, 11 fully comply with the provisions, 16 partially comply, and 4 do not comply.
TFMR made a submission calling for a repeal of the Eighth Amendment and the removal of abortion from criminal law.
Beatie and his wife Nancy wanted a child, however, since she was unable to conceive due to prior medical complications, Beatie went off of HRT and became pregnant with the help of a sperm donor.
Nebraska Putative Father Registry Form - Nebraska Search Registry Form New Mexico - The New Mexico Department of Health, Vital Records website has a brief description of the registry and includes forms to search and to register, the links and form names even match.
The 1920 abortion laws of France have not been entirely repealed leading to ambiguity in the nation's policies.
Some chest masculinization surgeries prohibit people from chestfeeding at all, but some surgeries maintain the mammary glands and just remove breast tissue.
Europe Legislation allowing chemical castration exists in France, the United Kingdom, Poland, Russia, North Macedonia, Belgium and Turkey.
Many women make multiple attempts at abortions, as they seek out professional services after inexpensive methods often fail.
Fetal viability means the point in pregnancy when, in the professional judgment of the patient's treating health care practitioner, there is a significant likelihood of the fetus' sustained survival outside the uterus without the application of extraordinary medical measures.
The Abortion Support Network is a UK charity and abortion fund which provides financial assistance, accommodation and consultation to people in Europe who are seeking an abortion abroad.
Lord Steyn advances a distributive justice argument, that the court needed to consider whether spreading the burden across society was just, which for wrongful conception, it was not.
To date, PEI is the only Canadian province that does not perform surgical abortions on its own soil.
In 2020–21, Goodwin received the University of California's highest honor, the Distinguished Senior Faculty Award for Research.
It could also have psychological consequences for the woman, and would lead to poor mother-child relations as the child matures.
In South Africa, Cape Malays used red geraniums, Khoekhoe people used thorn bushes, and Zulu people used a shrub called uhlungughlungu.
WGNRR's two primary campaigns are the International Day of Action for Women's Health (May 28) and the International Day of Action for Access to Safe and Legal Abortion (September 28).
Section 1(a) of this law recognized "the right of the individual to life, liberty, security of the person and enjoyment of property, and the right not to be deprived thereof except by due process of law." However, the Bill of Rights was a statute and not part of the Constitution.
Before the embryo was implanted, Robinson signed a contract stating she would carry the pregnancy to term and relinquish her parental rights in favor of her brother and Hollingsworth.
Offspring limitation facilitated the financial stability of the influential families, preserving social order, and the males of these castes were required to perform important religious rituals.
Given the contentious nature of abortion, lawmakers and other stakeholders often face controversy in defining abortion.
He is afraid of Cú Chulainn's reaction if he exercises it in this case, but is equally afraid of losing his authority if he does not.
Litigation In 2009 the women, assisted by the Southern Africa Litigation Centre, the Namibia Women's Health Network and the Legal Assistance Centre, sued the government for damages, claiming that sterilisation without informed consent violates a number of rights.
Some criminologists even suggest that offenders may sell their prescribed medications on the black market, giving them extra income to fund ways to conceal their criminal behaviour more effectively than untreated offenders.
Background The amendment was primarily sponsored by Wyoming State Senator Leslie Nutting (7th district) intended to prohibit people from being compelled to participate in the ACA.
Dorf, the amendment would protect the right to abortion in the state of New York by ensuring that prohibiting abortion would be an unconstitutional form of health-care discrimination because they would be "singling out one form of reproductive health care, and not other kinds of health care".
The case has been viewed as a victory by advocates for the rights of sperm donors and the men's rights movement.
The form, which is called a "Notice of Intent to Claim Paternity - Paternity Registry," also notes that a non-married putative father may have to register in other states along with Texas.
179 (1973), was a decision of the United States Supreme Court overturning the abortion law of Georgia.
Synopsis Policing the Womb centers the criminalization of birth and other aspects of reproduction in the United States, such as contraception and abortion.
Goodwin argues in favor of widening current "choice" movements to reproductive justice, an expansive framework inclusive of domains like abortion access, healthcare, and mass incarceration.
Initiative 434 and Initiative 439 were mutually exclusive; only the one with more votes in favor would become law in the event both amendments passed.
Results The following table details the results by county: Impact on abortion Following the US Supreme Court's decision in Dobbs v.
These bills, referred to as TRAP laws (Targeted Regulation of Abortion Provider), implement medically unnecessary restrictions for clinics that will be difficult or impossible for providers to meet, therefore forcing clinics to close under the guise of increasing the safety of the procedure.
Mifepristone and/or misoprostol The only scientifically studied effective self-induced abortion method is ingesting a combination of mifepristone and misoprostol or misoprostol alone.
The only online information located is a fax number posted by the New Hampshire Probate Court Administrative Office.
The court said that Patel endangered the child by not seeking medical care but that prosecutors failed to prove that her failure to do so resulted in the child's death.
A fifth type is partner rape due to sperm competition when the male suspects or knows that the female has had sex with another male.
In the 14th-century French epic poem Baudouin de Sebourc, a tyrannical lord claims the jus primae noctis unless he receives part of the bride's dowry.
As of 2024, ASN has made over £1,400,000 in grants to people seeking abortions, and has been contacted by 10,000 people.
By 2012, disagreement with forced abortion was being expressed by the public in China, thought to be fuelling pressure to repeal the one-child policy.
For example, anthropologist Peggy Reeves Sanday has documented significant cross-cultural variation in the prevalence of rape, suggesting that sexual violence correlates more strongly with social factors like male dominance and militarism than with evolutionary imperatives.
In 1892, the Dutch league became the first to set up a medical clinic to provide information directly to the poor.
Prior to enactment of the federal law, the fetus in utero was, as a general rule, not recognized as a victim of federal crimes of violence.
Uganda - National Climate Change Policy (NCCP) The Uganda National Climate Change Policy identifies vulnerable populations and highlights them in climate change adaptation and mitigation efforts.
Sessions The rules regarding where and when the committee can hold sessions are laid out in their rules of procedure.
The law was passed to eliminate the cost burden and keep low-income students in schools during their menstrual cycle.
Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney has re-introduced the bill a number of times since then, but it has never passed or received significant support.
Wade, the New York Senate passed the resolution in favor of the amendment by a vote of 49–14, then the New York Assembly also adopted it by a vote of 98–43.
This inspired her to create her first model for the test, similar to the tests she observed in her lab.
In the United States, 1 percent of 1,900 women questioned in 1987 listed rape or incest as the reason for having an abortion; of these, 95 percent named other reasons as well.
In 2016 they welcomed the Irish government's new guidelines on bereavement counselling for grieving parents.
They also concluded abortion is safer in countries where it is legal, but dangerous in countries where it is outlawed and performed clandestinely.
Alsalem's paper discussed the definition of "woman" in international human rights treaties, particularly CEDAW.
This amounts to over 10% of all criminal trials during this period in which a woman was sentenced to death.
1982) is an Indian American whose conviction and sentence to 20 years in prison in Indiana for feticide and child neglect was overturned by the Indiana Court of Appeals.
Moreover, the RFSU carries an extensive international work with similar organizations in other countries.
His responsibilities to the child begin at conception and can only be terminated with the female's decision to abort the fetus or with the mother's decision to give the child up for adoption.
While several parties have been critical of the final draft excluding the word "abortion" in its text, other advocates argue doing so helps to preserve rights of woman for all pregnancy outcomes, as well as for in vitro fertilization and contraception.
Medically, abortion means loss of the fetus, for any reason, before it is able to survive outside the womb.
Organisations such as Planned Parenthood and Marie Stopes International have chosen to lose federal funding when it is in effect.
Polling Results By congressional district "Yes" won two of three congressional districts, with "No" winning the remaining one, which elected a Republican.
Hollingsworth) is a ruling by the Superior Court of New Jersey, Hudson County Vicinage, and is the first precedent regarding gestational surrogacy in New Jersey.
However, between 1936 and 1955, abortion in the Soviet Union was highly restricted due to medical concerns and its impact on population growth.
She was hesitant to come forward because the article was discussing the modern version of the pregnancy test, but she emailed the author of the article.
Other dictionaries "The deliberate termination of a pregnancy, usually before the embryo or fetus is capable of independent life." "A term that, in philosophy, theology, and social debates, often means the deliberate termination of pregnancy before the fetus is able to survive outside the uterus.
DKT International, a major provider of such products, ran low on its stock after manufacturing disruptions in Asia.
Among women seeking abortions in Northern China, 2.1% reported that they were being forced to have an abortion by their partner.
She was told she would need to wait for two years before the implantation of the embryos in her uterus.
More generally they mention research finding that at least one-third of males "admit they would rape under specific conditions" and that other surveys find that many men state having coercive sexual fantasies.
Other activities potentially subject to waiting periods include marriage, divorce, abortion access for women, and merger proceedings.
The far-reaching consequences of climate change on SRHRs have been the subject of research in Uganda, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, and the Sahel.
Lisa Webster, an editor and religion scholar, joined Evan as co-editor just before the magazine's launch in February 2008.
"Mooncalf" is used as a derogatory term indicating someone is a dullard, fool, or otherwise not particularly bright or sharp.
If parents litigate a divorce case without raising the issue of paternity, in most states they will be barred from disputing the husband's paternity in a later court proceeding.
This method can cause infection or injury to internal organs (for example perforating the uterus or intestines), resulting in death.
Ancient Greece and Rome Debates around abortion, pregnancy and the beginning of life were common in Greek and Roman philosophy and medicine, and would have also been known in cultures which have not left a written record.
O’Neill Professor of Constitutional Law and Global Health Policy at Georgetown University Law Center.
RD won three Religion Newswriters Association (RNA) awards for Excellence in Religion Commentary and Analysis, a Wilbur Award for outstanding work by secular communicators on religion, and a Science for Religion Writers award from the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS).
They may also help the rape victim understand why the rape victim's partner may see the rape as a form of infidelity.
Shakespeare, for instance, used the term to describe Caliban, the deformed servant of Prospero, in The Tempest.
The World Health Organization (WHO) has endorsed two regimens for abortion up to 12 weeks of pregnancy using misoprostol: a standardized regimen of mifepristone and misoprostol and a regimen of misoprostol alone.
Polling Results By congressional district Despite losing the state, "Yes" won two of three congressional districts, which both elected Republicans.
Clayton, who ruled that, as Palmer's actions were "in the public good," no charges could be held against her.
These included Montreal Tramways Co v Léveillé (1933), in which a child successfully sued for club feet, and the Court had said that otherwise there would be no way to achieve justice for the child.
Three days into her court-ordered confinement, Burton underwent an emergency C-section, at which time the fetus was found to be dead.
Drawing on William Staunford, Edward Coke first formulated the born alive rule in Institutes of the Lawes of England, drawing on the established definition of Murder in English law that the victim be "a reasonable creature in rerum natura.
The league also maintained some overlap with the women's rights movement, which was concerned with birth control.
This satisfied the requirement that the involved people, namely Cynthia Dobson and her fetus, were closely related.
As she was working for the Kitchener-based Parents' Information Bureau (PIB), her arrest could have led to the collapse of the organization and as many as two years' imprisonment for Palmer.
The High Court found that obtaining consent from the women when they were in labour or in extreme pain could not constitute informed consent.
A study of Ethiopian adolescents who reported being raped found that 17% subsequently became pregnant, and rape crisis centers in Mexico reported the figure at 15–18%.
Crane had no previous background in science; however, she saw that making the pregnancy test an at-home and private experience was important and necessary.
Legal opinions The earliest texts almost uniformly preach respect for human life; but a reading of these passages must be balanced with passages meting out harsh and often horrific punishment for social transgressions of lower caste individuals against the upper castes.
However, after the birth, Robinson claimed she was coerced into entering into the agreement and she felt uncomfortable with Robinson-Hollingsworth and Hollingsworth raising the children due to her religious beliefs against homosexuality.
Males may also experience gynecomastia (development of larger-than-normal mammary glands in males); full development is less common unless chemical castration is combined with feminizing oestrogen therapy.
Socialism influenced a significant number of countries in the 20th century and had long-standing influence on the law of the countries in which it took hold.
One of the earliest Churchmen, Tertullian, believed that the soul of the fetus is generated by the parents along with the generation of the new body.
The three-child policy (Chinese: 三孩政策; pinyin: Sānhái Zhèngcè), whereby a couple can have three children, is a family planning policy in the People's Republic of China that exists as a formality but is effectively abolished.
Background Donald Robinson and Sean Hollingsworth were married in a civil ceremony in California and moved to New Jersey.
published in 2002) Queue (disambiguation) Abortion in the United States Hunting license Time management == References ==
The probation officer recommended that she be held under probation for three years during which she was to refrain from associating with narcotic users and could not frequent any place where narcotics were sold.
The putative father does not have the luxury, after the fact of conception, to decide that he is not ready for fatherhood.
The League began plans for a birth control clinic in 1917, but these stalled until they received funds from the philanthropist Sir John Sumner.
Bill Frist, majority leader, attempted to acknowledge a similar legislation to the Senate floor in July 2003 prohibiting amendments, but the Democratic party objected.
In 1997 and 1998, LRHRR led meetings with sixteen different women of color organizations about reproductive tract infections among women of color which started discussions about the need for a collective vision to promote research and reproductive justice advocacy for women of color.
Self-induced (or self-managed) abortion is often attempted during the beginning of pregnancy (the first eight weeks from the last menstrual period).
In the film of the same name and its sequel, Newt Scamander's collection of creatures in his suitcase includes a herd of mooncalves.
In addition, it covers certain crimes that are defined by statute as federal offenses wherever they occur, no matter who commits them, such as certain crimes of terrorism.
The current Secretary General is Assibi Napoe from Togo, Chief Coordinator of Education International's African regional office.
Other states Many states that have tampon taxes have tried to repeal or eliminate the tax via legislation and have been denied.
In his speech Pro Cluentio, delivered in 66 BC, Cicero refers to a case he had heard of in which a woman from Miletus was sentenced to death for having aborted her pregnancy, upon receiving bribes from those who stood to inherit her husband's estate if he produced no heir.
Furthermore, in cases of natural disaster, women are more likely to have negative reproductive outcomes that range from premature delivery to preeclampsia.
The major push for legal abortion in the USSR was majorly driven by medical experts who explained the issue to the public.
In Kyrgyzstan, thousands of young girls and women are kidnapped every year to be forced into marriage.
See also Abortion in the Republic of Ireland D v Ireland Miss D References External links Official website
The Swedish Association for Sexuality Education (Swedish: Riksförbundet för sexuell upplysning, RFSU) is a Swedish nonprofit organization that works with public opinion formation on sexual and reproductive health.
Background Legislative history In April 2023, LB626, the Nebraska Heartbeat Act, failed 32–15, falling one vote short of the 33 votes needed to end a filibuster.
Furthermore, with the exception of medical indications, the strict ban only applied to pregnancies that were desirable in terms of racial hygiene.
Missouri Laws considering sterilization in Missouri began by targeting criminals and slowly began to include people with any incurable disease, epilepsy, and eventually all with mental disabilities.
The prosecutor claimed that Indiana's law allows for women to be convicted of feticide for attempting to end a pregnancy even if the fetus survives.
All intended parents, irrespective of marital status, sexual orientation, or a genetic connection to the child, are able to establish their legal parental rights through pre-birth orders placing their names directly on the child's initial birth certificate.
Etac is a Swedish multinational group, that develops, manufactures and sells products for people with reduced mobility.
Additionally, the Court held that the restriction satisfies strict scrutiny since the restriction was narrowly tailored because Oakley could have not intentionally refused to pay child support, and the restriction met the State's compelling interest of having parents support their children.
Children are particularly at risk for such abuse when they are visibly identifiable as sharing half their ethnicity with the occupying forces, as in the case of half-Arab children of Darfuri women raped by janjaweed soldiers as part of the war in Darfur.
In October 2020, the government in France announced the introduction of a bill punishing with jail terms and fines any doctor who provides virginity certificates for traditional, religious marriages.
Helmut Kraatz, one of the most important gynecologists in the GDR, expressed a positive opinion of the new regulation, as it "removed the ground from the hands of medical practitioners", but also described abortion as the "most unpleasant method of family planning for women and gynecologists".
In 2019, in partnership with five organisations in four countries, ASN launched Abortion Without Borders to help people in Poland access abortions.
Anti-abortion groups and the Catholic Church claim that the report compels all European Union member states to fund overseas abortion services through their foreign aid budgets.
In 2006, Australian senator Stephen Conroy and his wife Paula Benson announced that they had arranged for a child to be born through egg donation and gestational surrogacy.
Because of difficulties in bringing such cases to trial, however, "data from the period 1975–1978 ...
Citizens' Assembly In 2016 the Irish government set up a Citizens' Assembly to discuss Ireland's abortion laws.
On September 14, 1936, 28-year-old Dorothea Palmer was arrested in Eastview (now Vanier, Ontario), where a large number of people of French-Canadian or Irish ancestry made up the town's population of about 4,000.
The Satanic Temple launched a New Mexico clinic in 2023 named after Samuel Alito's mother, opening a Virginia clinic in 2024, and a Maine clinic in 2025.
In 1930, Scottish legal scholar Hector McKechnie concluded, based on historical evidence, that the practice had existed in Scotland in early times.
In 2009 British Prime Minister Gordon Brown issued a public apology for the "appalling" treatment of Turing after an online petition gained 30,000 signatures and international recognition.
These accounts have been categorized as a part of Nazi Germany's "systematic program of genocide, aimed at the destruction of foreign nations and ethnic groups".
Criminal proceedings On 14 March 2011, Shuai was charged with the murder and attempted feticide of her child, and was jailed for 435 days.
Women Decide!" and saw the formation of other important international networks including Women Living Under Muslim Laws (WLUML) and Latin American Women and Health Network.
Ruling and reaction Judge Schultz ruled in favor of Angela Robinson, expanding the Baby M precedent beyond a genetically related surrogate mother and declaring gestational surrogacy contracts to be a violation of public policy.
There was a large focus on ensuring women gained confidence about their sexuality and psychology, with abortion standing in the way of ownership of their body.
In 1992, LRHRR organized a clinic to train more than 5,000 individuals to keep abortion protesters from interfering with clinics during Operation Rescue's abortion protests in the South Bronx.
Burton had fundamental rights to privacy and liberty under the Florida Constitution and that those rights were subject to strict scrutiny review.
According to the testimony of one UPS employee, the only time a light-duty request seemed to become an issue occurred when the request was made by a pregnant employee.
Provisions The amendment created a new Section 38 within Article 1 of the Wyoming constitution entitled "Right of health care access".
James Rowley of Businessweek wrote that the incident had drawn attention to the Republican Party's advocacy for a total ban on abortion.
She was denied compensation by the California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board because they did not recognize pregnancy or related medical complications as a disability.
According to local chronicles, the measure provoked popular outrage, and Campitelli's cruelty in enforcing the practice, including the abduction of brides from church following wedding ceremonies, became part of his enduring legend.
Aftermath In November 2022, a Hart Research poll revealed that 59% of Nebraskans opposed further abortion restrictions, with 48% strongly opposed.
The use of matrons' juries in a criminal context was documented as early as 1387, in language which suggests that it was already a customary procedure.
Albert Yuzpe and his colleagues began systematic studies on the use of ethinylestradiol and norgestrel to provide emergency contraception after an assault.
Facts of the case Samantha Burton, a mother of two, was twenty-five weeks pregnant in March 2009 when she experienced a premature rupture of membranes and displayed signs of premature labor.
Any interruption of human pregnancy prior to the 28th week is known as abortion." "The expulsion or removal of a fetus from the womb before it is capable of independent survival." "[Abortion] is commonly misunderstood outside medical circles.
The English scholar Henry Spelman stated in his Glossary (1664) that the custom had existed in Scotland, but not in England.
To this day, anti-abortion activists routinely stand outside many abortion clinics; their goal is to discourage women from entering the clinics.
The group has not objected to the other health services provided by PEI's health care system in neighboring provinces.
A fortnight after the forced abortion she continued to be harassed by local authorities in Shanxi Province.
That same year, ASN fundraised and provided over £73,000 (€84,000) worth of grants for all associated expenses of obtaining an abortion, including travel.
She survived, but the fetus died on 3 January 2011 – 33 weeks after her conception, ten days after the poisoning and two days after its birth in an emergency cesarean section.
It also called for the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to monitor dioxin levels in similar hygiene products.
To date, the committee has issued thirty-two general recommendations, the latest dealing with the gender related dimensions of refugee status, asylum, nationality and statelessness of women.
The European commissioner Poul Nielson said that the European Union wished to "fill the decency gap" left by the Mexico City policy.
A middle school in Palo Alto California, Terman Middle School was named after him until it was renamed in 2018.
History Roman law allowed induced abortions but regulated it in consideration of the biological father.
In 1991, the Washington Court of Appeals heard a petition for sterilization brought by the parents of an incompetent child named K.M.
The opponents, which included Prince Alois, got 500 votes more and eventually settled at 52.3 percent compared with 47.7 percent.
In previous years, California had focused on applying eugenics indirectly to humans as a form of "societal benefit".
Emperor Septimius Severus ruled circa 211 AD that a woman who had an abortion without consent from her husband should face exile for having bereaved her husband of children.
Effects of masculinizing hormone therapy on pregnancy Continuous testosterone use is contraindicated (not medically recommended) at the same time a trans man is attempting to conceive, pregnant, or while breastfeeding.
Regulation (EC) No 1567/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2003 on aid for policies and actions on reproductive and sexual health and rights in developing countries.
Background The donor, a gay man whose identity remains anonymous, had been friends with the lesbian couple to whom he donated sperm in 2006.
As of 2012 the only provinces to restrict payment for abortions are PEI and New Brunswick, which pay only for hospital abortions, not those performed in private clinics.
In keeping with contemporary Christian views on contraception, the dissemination of information and the possession of materials relating to birth control were illegal in Canada.
He concluded that enslaved people and their descendants were used as human savings accounts, with newborns serving as interest that functioned as the basis of money and credit in a market premised on the continual expansion of slavery.
Porter Lillis hailed the research in a review for Journal of Social Work Values and Ethics: "The book is an excellent, thoroughly researched text, particularly in respect to case law and case histories.
However, the benefits of the raising of the child were to be balanced with the costs of raising the child.
states require a person to wait for a set number of days after buying or reserving a firearm from a dealer before actually taking possession of it, a woman waiting for an abortion and individuals making applications on marriage licences.
argued that the law was discriminatory towards men and violated Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 by giving women more rights than men, instead of equal rights.
Paternity and inheritance rights If the context of inheritance rights, it will be the heirs of the deceased person who are attempting to dispute or establish paternity.
The book details the criminalization of reproduction in United States and argues for choice movements to expand to a reproductive justice framework.
Latina Roundtable on Health and Reproductive Rights (LRHRR) was a Latina reproductive rights organization based in New York City.
With the 1972 law on the interruption of pregnancy, the indication-based legal situation was then completely replaced by a time limit regulation.
The antipsychotic agent benperidol was sometimes used to decrease sexual urges in people who displayed what was thought of as inappropriate sexual behavior, and as likewise given by depot injection, though benperidol does not affect testosterone and is therefore not a castration agent.
He says that it is necessary from an egalitarian perspective, to ensure that women and men have equal rights under the law.
In October 2010, Peter Lee, the eldest son and one of the presumed heirs of billionaire Lee Shau Kee obtained three sons through a gestational carrier, reportedly from California.
Ottesen-Jensen was chairman from its inception until 1959, and has come to be strongly associated with the organization, whose journal, Ottar, was named after her.
Under Part II of the Canada labour Code, employers are already required to provide toilet paper, soap, warm water, and a way to dry hands.
The Eighth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland, approved by referendum in 1983, and the subsequent Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013 limited abortion to cases where the pregnant woman's life was endangered.
By proposing to add rights to the State Constitution, rather than existing only in laws that can be overturned by legislators, it aims to make those rights more difficult to take away if the balance of power in state government were to change.
After returning to the University of Wisconsin–Madison, from which she received her LL.M degree in 2000, she was a Gilder Lehrman postdoctoral fellow at Yale University for one year.
There was resistance to marketing pregnancy tests for consumers rather than doctors, and the home pregnancy test did not become available until 1977, except for a market test in Canada in 1972.
About 20 to 30 women died of complications each year, while many others were disabled for life and resigned to wheelchairs.
LM & Others v Government of Namibia is a legal case regarding coerced sterilisation of three women in Namibia in 2005 and 2007.
Americas United States In the 19th century United States, Anthony Comstock launched an 'anti-vice crusade' that included opposition to contraception and abortion.
The PAC-funded advertisements falsely claiming the amendment would give undocumented immigrants the right to vote.
The trial demonstrated that the public was interested in the topic of contraception and sales of the book surged during the trial.
The Court further held that once the State had proven viability it must then show that the proposed intervention is the least intrusive and least restrictive means possible of protecting the State's interest in the fetus.
The term may also refer to the time between the making of a claim and the payment of it, also called the elimination period.
On July 22, 2016, the court ruled in her favor and specified that the legislature had not intended for the feticide statute to be applied to illegal self-induced abortion, and so it vacated the feticide charge.
Regarding driving, the New Brunswick Court of Appeal had argued that one could separate responsible driving from personal autonomy.
No one shall be deprived of his liberty save in the following cases and in accordance with a procedure prescribed by law") and in Article 6 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union ("Everyone has the right to liberty and security of person").
A 1987 study also found a 5% pregnancy rate from rape of 18- to 24-year-old higher education students in the US.
Contributions The IAC considers that legislative change related to FGM in Burkina Faso, Côte d'Ivoire, Djibouti, Egypt, Ghana, Guinea, Senegal, Tanzania and Togo is a result of the lobbying work carried out by the IAC as well as by other NGOs.
In 2003 approximately 42 million pregnancies were voluntarily terminated, of which 20 million were unsafe.
On January 6, 2026, the Wyoming Supreme Court ruled abortion restrictions unconstitutional under said amendment, stating that "whether to terminate or continue a pregnancy is a woman’s own health care decision protected by Article 1, Section 38." == References ==
warned that Shuai's prosecution could set a precedent for criminalizing a pregnant woman's actions, such as smoking or drinking, or having a miscarriage.
Teenage mothers are nearly twice as likely to have a repeat pregnancy within 2 years if they experienced abuse within three months after delivery.
By this means, before a child is born, a man would be able to absolve himself of both the privileges and demands of fatherhood.
Reiman writes: "The earliest laws of relevance to abortion were not concerns with the voluntary termination of pregnancy by the pregnant woman.
Judgment High Court Lawyers for the two women submitted to the High Court of Justice in September 2002 that, as treatment was already under way, the men should not have the right to stop it.
Willke wrote in a 1985 text that when undergoing rape, the female body can physiologically prevent conception.
Instead, judges across the United States used sterilization for punishment of crimes calling these men and women unfit.
It argues, in the context of gender equality, that in the earliest stages of pregnancy the putative (alleged) father should have the same right to relinquish all future parental rights and financial responsibility — leaving the informed mother with the same three options.
Abortion has been questioned from a secular perspective, drawing on modern understandings of science and human rights, although the potential to legalise and increase the availability of abortion was supported by secular and libertarian feminists and socialists from the mid-19th century onwards.
15.0% of women in California, aged 16–29, seeking family planning reported experiencing birth control sabotage.
In 1991, during an international conference in Amsterdam titled "Abortion Matters", ANCIC co-founded the International Federation of Abortion and Contraception Professionals (Fédération Internationale des Associés Professionels de l'Avortement et de la Contraception or FIAPAC).
History The IAC began at a seminar in Dakar in 1984 with a focus on fighting harmful practices relating to female genital mutilation (FGM), childbirth, nutrition and food, early marriage; and promoting traditional practices considered beneficial, such as breastfeeding and baby massage.
Ulysses Sigel Webb: Attorney General of California for 37 years, and enthusiastic promoter of the Californian forced sterilization laws.
Fields in The Bank Dick (1940) advises his prospective son-in-law to avoid being a "mooncalf" by buying shares he has been conned into believing are worth much more than the proffered price.
Civil juries of matrons appear to have largely died out by the turn of the 19th century and became obsolete with the Married Women's Property Act 1882.
Socialist parties can have diverging perspectives regarding the importance of the issue and where the issue derives from.
This would be part of draft legislation aimed at reinforcing "French secular values" and combating "Islamist separatism".
The International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda identified rape as capable of amounting to genocide when used systematically or on a mass scale to destroy a people; later the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia also categorized rape as capable of being a crime against humanity.
Two months after her baby was born she tried to return to work with a doctor's note and was fired anyway.
"The state's about-face in this proceeding is unsettling, as well as untenable" under prior court precedent, Judge Terry Crone wrote in the ruling.
In response to this new restriction, citizens began a petition to place a constitutional amendment on the 2024 ballot that would protect abortion rights in Nebraska.
Her court-ordered attorney submitted a writ of habeas corpus to the superior court, which was granted by the judge.
In Britain, The Guardian described Shuai's case, as well as those of other women who lose their pregnancies in cases of maternal drug addiction or a suicide attempt, as part of a "creeping criminalisation of pregnancy across America".
Best Interest of the Child In the first UK surrogacy case Re C (A Minor) (Wardship: Surrogacy) (Baby Cotton Case) [1985] F.L.R.
1976–1977 – Representative Henry Hyde of Illinois sponsored the Hyde Amendment, which passed, and allowed U.S.
During his remarks at the ceremony, Bush said, "Any time an expectant mother is a victim of violence, two lives are in the balance, each deserving protection, and each deserving justice.
In this way, enslaved people could be bought and sold as chattel without presenting a challenge to the religious beliefs and social mores of the society at large.
Evolutionary considerations can also help explain the emotional pain felt, as well as the form it takes.
The Author, Rebecca Kluchin discusses in her book, Fit to be Tied: Sterilization and Reproductive Rights in America, 1950-1980, how women deemed to be unfit mothers were forced into involuntary sterilization.
Rewire News Group (formerly Rewire and RH Reality Check) is a daily United States online news publication focused on reproductive and sexual health from a pro-choice perspective.
See also Bradley Amendment Carol Smart Family law Filiation Lord Mansfield's Rule Parental leave Parenting plan Paternity Court Paternity fraud References Further reading Nara B.
The feticide statute under which she was also prosecuted was intended, when enacted in 1979, to cover acts by violent third parties such as abusive boyfriends and drunk drivers.
Enslaved people were treated as a commodity by owners and traders alike, and were regarded as the crucial labor for the production of lucrative cash crops that fed the triangular trade.
WGNRR's position on abortion was critical during the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in 1994.
access to medical assistance and up-to-date information in respect to proper methods of birth control".
First introduced in 1997 (but renamed in 1999), the bill is named after Robin Danielson, who died in 1998 of toxic shock syndrome, a rare bacterial disease linked to high-absorbency tampon use.
In 1981, the Colorado Supreme Court held that a district court may authorize the sterilization of a "mentally retarded person" if the court finds with clear and convincing evidence the procedure is medically essential.
The article spells out limits to these rights in the form of rulings of courts under the law, allowing for mental institutions and institutions for addicts, extradition, etc.
Bush administration which prohibited funding of abortion through foreign aid, particularly reversing the de-funding of the United Nations Population Fund.
was passed in the European parliament by way of the Sandbæk Report authored by Ulla Sandbæk in 2003.
It can be induced (see Definitions, Terminology, and Reference Resources) through a pharmacological or a surgical procedure, or it may be spontaneous (also called miscarriage)." "Definitions of abortion vary across and within countries as well as among different institutions.
When climate-related disasters strike, women and girls face heightened vulnerabilities, putting them at greater risk of gender-based violence.
Another reason why the issue raised concerns of public policy was that the judicial system would have to define the proper behaviour of a pregnant woman, a so-called "reasonable pregnant woman" test.
If passed, it would have amended the Nebraska Constitution to establish a right to abortion until fetal viability.
Judicial ruling The judge that was over the trial, Judge Kearney, requested that if she wanted to get probation over a six-month jail term then she must submit to sterilization, a surgical procedure.
McD v L is a ruling by the Supreme Court of Ireland, handed down on 10 December 2009, that granted a sperm donor visitation rights to a child born via artificial insemination.
See also Abortion in the Republic of Ireland Abortion in Poland National Network of Abortion Funds, a similar organization working in the United States == References ==
You know what I mean?" His comments, including the use of the words "rape thing", drew local and national criticism.
On 12 November 2001 eleven of Evans' eggs were produced and fertilised using Johnston's sperm, resulting in six embryos which were frozen and placed in storage.
Paternity law is the body of law underlying legal relationship between a father and his biological or adopted children and deals with the rights and obligations of both the father and the child to each other as well as to others.
When abortion is illegal, that generally contributes to the prevalence of unsafe abortion, but it is not the only contributor.
The term derives from the once widespread superstition, present in many European folk traditions, that such malformed creatures were the product of the sinister influence of the Moon on fetal development.
The Court held the hearing by telephone with Burton being required to argue her case from her hospital bed without the assistance of an attorney or independent medical opinion.
References External links Official website Georgetown faculty page Michele Goodwin publications indexed by Google Scholar+
Goodwin contextualizes the contemporary policing of reproduction within the history of American slavery and contends that women's bodies are treated as property by the American state.
In June 2012 Feng Jianmei was forcibly made to abort her 7 month old fetus after not paying a fine for breaking the one-child policy.
A 2018 suicide prompted the Vermont legislature to pass a waiting period bill, but it was vetoed by governor Phil Scott in June, 2019.
The logical conclusion, as a matter of law, is that the costs to the pursuers of meeting their obligations to the child during her childhood are not recoverable as damages."Lord Steyn and Lord Millett both advanced policy arguments.
Changes in the committee For the first ten years the committee operated significantly differently from now.
ANCIC stated it supported the government's stand against "virginity tests", but warned that in some cases women were in "real danger" and "a ban would simply deny the existence of such community practices, without making them disappear".
Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013 During the debate on the Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013, the group called for an exception to allow termination in cases of fatal foetal abnormalities, however Taoiseach Enda Kenny claimed it would be unconstitutional to include that.
Parliament passed and President Dmitri Medvedev signed several restrictions on abortion into law to combat "a falling birthrate" and "plunging population".
Illegal abortions were mostly performed with very risky and dangerous methods, which led to serious infections and internal bleeding.
Between 2003 and 2007, WGNRR collaborated with the People’s Health Movement on the Women’s Access to Health campaign.
Civil matrons juries were composed of twelve knights and twelve matrons, summoned by a writ de ventre inspiciendo ("to inspect the belly").
In this regard, during the 2020 National People's Congress (NPC) session, NPC deputy Huang Xihua suggested removing the penalty policy for having more than three children.
The Act ceased to apply in full in 1993 following the decision of the Federal Constitutional Court to reorganize the legal situation on abortion throughout Germany.
They created Africa's Agenda 2063 that covered socio-economic transformations to mitigate the effects of changing geographical developments.
In January 2023, the government of Sichuan Province announced that it had abolished the three-child policy completely, allowing parents in Sichuan to legally have as many children as they want.
The website was also recognized as a nominee for the Webby Awards in the Religion & Spirituality category for the 2011, 2012, 2014 and 2015 Webby Awards, and as an official Honoree for Best Editorial Writing in 2016.
At the same time that the importation of enslaved Africans was being restricted or eliminated, the United States was undergoing a rapid expansion of cotton, sugarcane, and rice production in the Deep South and the West.
A principle that allows language in law to not conflict with Roe, which logically should trigger Roe's "collapse" clause, was explained in Webster v.
Nebraska - The Nebraska State Website with a little searching has a link for its statute creating a, "biological father registry".
As of May 2015, sixty-two states parties have entered reservations against some part of the convention.
1969 – The New Mexico legislature passed a law that made it a felony for anyone to provide a woman with an abortion unless it was needed to save her life, or because her pregnancy was a result of rape or incest.
Franklin Frazier, in his book The Negro Family, stated that "there were masters who, without any regard for the preferences of their slaves, mated their human chattel as they did their stock." Ex-slave Maggie Stenhouse remarked, "Durin' slavery there were stockmen.
The organization viewed health care as part of a community based approach that integrated health and social services holistically and formed diverse coalitions to discuss religious and cultural norms of Latinas and their effect on available healthcare.
The association suggested that the issue be "tackled quite differently, so that women and men free themselves and reject the weight of [such] traditions." References External links ANCIC quarterly bulletin "Interruption volontaire de grossesse" [Voluntary interruption of pregnancy : legal status].
Although the practice was outlawed in 2013, bride kidnapping continues to exist, with destructive consequences for society.
Though the law allows single women to resort to surrogacy, she has to be a widow or a divorcee between the age of 35 and 45 years.
In November 2019, during a “special legislative session” and a Governor's signature, Utah became the thirteenth US state to abolish the tampon tax, effective from January 1, 2020.
In a study of American trans men, 28.3% reported that they were afraid of not being able to become pregnant because of hormone therapy.
The jury of matrons was used at least eleven times during the twentieth century, before its abolition in 1931.
The High Court ruled the embryos of both women should be destroyed, but that would not happen until the conclusion of the appeals process.
Nebraska enacted a law banning most abortions after 12 weeks of pregnancy, with exceptions for cases of rape, incest, and to save the life of the pregnant person.
Lifetime prevalence of reproductive coercion among women in Côte d'Ivoire over the age of 18 perpetrated by a male partner is 18.5%.
The Wyoming State Legislature passed HB92, a trigger law that would ban abortion beginning five days after the overturn of Roe v.
Prior to 1955, whilst it was illegal, abortions had still occurred and therefore posed a large threat to a woman's health after being treated by unskilled individuals in unfavourable conditions.
The Supreme Court ruled, however, that there was no evidence for the women's HIV status to be the underlying reason for the sterilisation, and that no rule or policy existed that discriminated against HIV-positive patients.
According to Reuters, as of late 2020, people were being fined 130,000 yuan ($20,440) for having a third child.
They believe that viewing rape as being due to a desire for domination, and not related to sexual desire, is generally harmful.
In 1990, the IAC adopted the term "female genital mutilation" to describe the procedure previously referred to as "female circumcision".
PRRO held a second rally on October 20, 2012, and were joined by other pro-choice groups across the country who were demanding abortion access on Prince Edward Island as their primary objective.
Unsafe abortions result in complications for about 7 million women a year and are one of the leading causes of death during pregnancy and childbirth (about 5–13% of all deaths during this period).
On the other hand, it could be the case where several putative fathers are fighting to establish custody.
Upon further analysis, the study also found that the decrease in consumer prices was greater for low-income consumers than high-income consumers (3.9% decrease versus 12.4% decrease).
In 2024 the newly-elected Holt government of New Brunswick repealed this ban to permit funding abortions outside hospitals, leaving PEI with the only such ban still in place.
Rodriguez later secured a $60,000 grant from the Ford Foundation to establish the SisterSong Women of Color Reproductive Justice Collective in 1997.
However, some Chinese citizens expressed dissatisfaction with the policy, as they would be unable to raise children due to the high cost of living in China relative to the income.
RFSU was founded February 24, 1933, by, among others, Elise Ottesen-Jensen, Gunnar Inghe and Hanna Lundin.
Although contraception was not fully legalized in Canada until 1969, Palmer was the only person to be prosecuted for providing information about birth control.
In the United States of America, the putative father registry is a state level legal option for unmarried men to document through a notary public any woman they engage with in intercourse, for the purpose of retaining parental rights for any child they may father.
For it to be valid, consent must be clear and unequivocal and be given freely and voluntarily and not induced by fear, fraud or force.
Canada The right to security of the person was recognized in Canada in the Canadian Bill of Rights in 1960.
United Kingdom On June 21, 2019, the UK Court of Protection ordered a disabled woman to have an abortion against her will.
Professor Goodwin has also been a Visiting Professor at the University of Chicago and University of Virginia law schools.
According to a 1995 publication, the main focus of their strategy for eliminating FGM is through education.
The Rome Statute Explanatory Memorandum, which defines the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, recognises rape, sexual slavery, forced prostitution, and forced pregnancy as crimes against humanity if part of a widespread or systematic practice.
Despite these measures, rape, whether systematic or otherwise, remains widespread in conflict zones.
WGNRR was an active participant in the International Conference "Reinforcing Reproductive Rights", held in Madras, India, in 1993.
European Court of Human Rights On 26 January 2005 the Bath clinic informed Evans that it was under a legal obligation to destroy the embryos, and intended to do so on 23 February 2005.
In 2017, 30,523 women had their pregnancies terminated in the Netherlands; 11% of abortions were performed on women who travelled to the Netherlands for the treatment.
As an early leading force in the field of eugenics, California became the third state in the United States to enact a sterilization law.
California is thought of by some as a Eugenics trailblazer in the time before the Nazis used it as an excuse to commit mass murder.
2003 – The Indiana Supreme Court recognized the medical malpractice tort of "wrongful pregnancy" when a woman became pregnant after a failed sterilization procedure.
Abortion notification A 2002 United States Gallup special report mentions only 38% of the population being opposed to notifying the husband of a married woman for an abortion.
Then, after LB626 failed in April, after Ben Hansen vote against LB626, he amendment LB574 to add Abortion on the bill.
In addition to associating plots, rejecting false alarms and estimating heading and speed, the radar tracker also acts as a filter, in which errors in the individual radar measurements are smoothed out.
NANU types Forecast outages FCSTDV, or Forecast Delta-V, gives scheduled outage times for Delta-V maneuvers.
The SWEPOS system permits mobile GPS/GLONASS receivers to receive detailed positioning data down to the centimeter level.
The first Bluetooth RTLS provider in the medical industry is supporting this in their article: "The fact that RFID cannot be used near sensitive equipment should in itself be a red flag to the medical industry".
The image of deformable objects can be covered with a mesh, the motion of the object is defined by the position of the nodes of the mesh.
SAASM does not provide any additional anti-jam capability, however, the higher data (chipping) rate of P(Y) code can provide a higher processing gain which will provide better tracking performance in a jamming environment.
This adds visual context to events, which is used for proactive driver coaching using AI, accident reconstruction, and insurance claim validation.
Navigation systems employ similar, but slightly more complex, methods than surveillance systems to obtain delay differences.
The defendant appealed to the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals, which found the warrantless data collection had violated his constitutional rights under the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution, but declined to order a new trial because the evidence was collected in good faith.
The SWEPOS network of reference stations began as a co-operation between the National Land Survey of Sweden and Onsala Space Observatory.
On the Cross Island Parkway, Palmetto Pass users previously received a 50-cent discount at the main toll booth (paying .75 cents compared to the $1.25 cash toll rate).
Design The Sniper is a single, lightweight targeting pod with much lower aerodynamic drag than the systems it replaces.
Consequently, by determining whether a direct signal is being received from a given satellite, the user can localize their position to within one of two areas of the street.
It features VoicePins for personalized location annotations, an 'Explore Near Me' function for discovering nearby points of interest, comprehensive Google_TalkBack support, and a feedback-enabled compass.
Active 10 BIKE (the device, a bike mount and a power pack including adaptors and a 2700mAh lithium polymer rechargeable battery.
Vonage has encouraged its customers to register the locations from which their 911 calls could be dialed with the local public safety answering point.
In September 2020, The Times reported that trials were being conducted at six sites in the UK, including Epping Forest in Essex.
NextBus is developed by Nextbus Information Systems, Inc., a subsidiary of Cubic Transportation Systems, for buses, trams, light rail operations and other public transport vehicles.
Moreover, the platform was also able to compensate most of known issues of local magnetic field variability.
For smaller species, including social insects, barcode-based tracking systems allow automated identification and monitoring of hundreds of individuals simultaneously.
The ICARUS project currently implements 5 g radio transmitters that include a GPS receiver, but has plans to use devices weighing less than 1 g in the future.
Auracast Auracast implements public audio broadcasting services, allowing multiple receivers to connect to a single audio transmitter without going through the Bluetooth device pairing first.
FCSTEXTD, or Forecast Extension, extends the scheduled outage time "Until Further Notice"; references the original NANU.
Windows-compatible video devices like webcams are supported, as well as special Nintendo Wii Remote camera, iPhone Truedepth camera with Eyeware Beam, and NaturalPoint cameras (TrackIR, SmartNav and OptiTrack).
This elevated flight path allows the missile to capitalize on reduced air resistance at higher altitudes, increasing both the missile's potential energy and the kinetic energy during terminal guidance, thus enabling greater range and probability of kill.
The shadow matching positioning principle was first proposed and the name 'shadow matching' was first introduced by Paul D Groves.
The company's business network consists of more than 2,500 partners, including telematic service providers and systems integrators, in over 150 countries.
TOA from two base stations will narrow a position to a position circle; data from a third base station is required to resolve the precise position to a single point.
Modulation codes Coarse/acquisition code The C/A PRN codes are Gold codes with a period of 1023 chips transmitted at 1.023 Mchip/s, causing the code to repeat every 1 millisecond.
Android and iOS devices also have very different battery impact depending on type of scans and the number of Bluetooth Low Energy devices in the vicinity.
The differences between the first and second generation systems are as follows: Services Lexus Link is offered in the continental U.S.
In response, LocationSmart took the vulnerable service offline and claimed the company "takes privacy seriously".
The functionality was "opt in" and had to be enabled by users due to the sensitivity of location data.
Satellite During the use of Starlink satellites in the Russo-Ukrainian War, SpaceX used geofencing to limit the use of Starlink Internet services outside the borders of Ukraine such as in Russian-occupied territories in Ukraine.
The Driveway app was the first telematics solution in the auto insurance industry to offer automatic trip detection, to function with no hardware dependency, and to bear no significant impact on the performance or battery life of user smartphones.
Disadvantages In comparison to sea-skimming trajectories, lofting lacks radar-avoidance characteristics, making it susceptible to detection by its target and potential interceptors.
That is, although each input is biased in some way, the observation from different dimensions and angles are biased in different ways.
Almanac data can be received from any of the GPS satellites and is considered valid for up to 180 days.
History Based in Thalwil, Switzerland, u-blox is a spin-off of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich (ETH) and was founded in 1997.
Starting from 2000, the government under President Vladimir Putin made the restoration of GLONASS a top priority; its funding was doubled and after a lull of several years, launches were restarted again.
This technology is the foundation for a wide range of applications, from consumer services for finding lost or stolen devices to enterprise platforms for fleet management and employee monitoring.
Background Cellular telephones make optimal use of limited radio spectrum and their short transmission range, due to low power, by always connecting to a radio antenna at a nearby facility, known as a cell site.
As of October 2017, L2C was being broadcast from 19 satellites; by June 2022 there were 24 satellites broadcasting this signal.
It differs from the true range between the vehicle and station i {\displaystyle i} by an offset, or bias, which is the same for every signal.
Deployment of the next generation military signal for GPS, called M-code, commenced with the launch of IIR-M and IIF satellites, beginning in 2005.
The higher-level protocol format is based on SAE J1939, with specific messages for the marine environment.
Following the mishap, Roscosmos activated two reserve satellites and decided to make the first GLONASS-K satellite, to be launched in February 2011, part of the operational constellation instead of mainly for testing as was originally planned.
In early 2018, SPOT launched the SPOT X, a two-way satellite messaging device with GPS location tracking, navigational capabilities, social media linking and direct communication options to emergency services.
Bluetooth Low Energy uses the same 2.4 GHz radio frequencies as classic Bluetooth, which allows dual-mode devices to share a single radio antenna, but uses a simpler modulation system.
It can be sent to advertisers and other third parties which can use this unique ID to track the user's movements, habits, and usages of applications.
The database is also used to determine the strength of available wireless connections and which mobile phone service providers have coverage in specific geographic locations.
Uses Chirp spread spectrum was originally designed to compete with ultra-wideband for precision ranging and low-rate wireless networks in the 2.45 GHz band.
The final degree in Telematics Engineering has the title of Ingeniería Civil Telemática (with the suffix of Civil).
The service is provided for an additional charge but recently free service has been introduced as the cost of the associated technology has been decreasing.
The core technology, which relies on transmitting location and status data, was originally developed and licensed by Tadiran from Teletrac USA.
Developments The first GAGAN transmitter was integrated into the GSAT-4 geostationary satellite, and had a goal of being operational in 2008.
In February 2023, Kurt Knutsson of CyberGuy Report at Fox News included Spot X in a review of "the 5 best" personal locator beacons (PLB).
Geotagging can tell users the location of the content of a given picture or other media or the point of view, and conversely on some media platforms show media relevant to a given location.
However, it is computationally very intensive and is currently unsuitable for most real-world, real-time applications.
It was originally administered by the South Carolina Department of Transportation and is now operated by the Connector 2000 Association, which operates the Southern Connector.
The United States Space Force awarded the US$96 million Contingency Operations contract in February 2016.
The resulting statistics are used to generate the random sample of particles for the next iteration.
The switching center automatically assigns a unique identifier to each cellular 911 call, known as a "pseudo ANI".
It is virtually identical in appearance to the Active 10 but is distinguishable by its orange buttons.
The C/A code is transmitted on the L1 frequency as a 1.023 MHz signal using a bi-phase shift keying (BPSK) modulation technique.
SMS Establishing points of interest in real-time and transmitting them via GSM cellular telephone networks using the Short Message Service (SMS) is referred to as Gps2sms.
It consists of such steps as modelling, requirements specification, and verification into a single efficient process.
(日本無線株式会社, Nihon Musen Kabushiki-gaisha) is a Japanese company specialising in the field of wireless electronics for the communications industry.
Licensing The OpenCelliD database is published under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License open content license with the intention of promoting free use and redistribution of the data.
The vulnerability allowed attackers to easily extract personal information of Ituran customers, including home addresses, phone numbers and car registration numbers.
Integration of Inertial Navigation System and Global Positioning System Using Kalman Filtering (PDF).
FreeTrack is an optical motion tracking application for Microsoft Windows, released under the GNU General Public License, that can be used with common inexpensive cameras.
SAASM systems can be updated with an encrypted "Black Key" that may be transmitted over unclassified channels.
Demodulation and decoding A GPS receiver processes the GPS signals received on its antenna to determine position, velocity and/or timing.
Gbanga Famiglia (2010) April 2010 saw the launch of Gbanga Famiglia, a game in which players can join or start their own Mafia Famiglia to take-over virtual establishments they discover whilst walking around the city.
Moiré Phase Tracking (MPT) is 3D tracking technology developed by Metria Innovation based on optical moiré patterns.
As of August 21, 2017 the database contained 35.5 million unique cells and 2.1 billion unique measurements.
Palmetto Pass is now used on one toll road: the Southern Connector (Interstate 185) in Greenville County.
22] The 11th Circuit held "that cell site location information is within the subscriber's reasonable expectation of privacy.
A few systems integrate (or communicate) with mobile phones for hands-free talking and SMS messaging (i.e., using Bluetooth or Wi-Fi).
TDS was successfully completed during 2007 by installing eight Indian Reference Stations (INRESs) at eight Indian airports and linked to the Master Control Centre (MCC) located near Bengaluru.
Since the first-generation Lexus Link system uses analog cellular technology and cannot be modified to digital operation, Lexus offered to disable the Lexus Link system and remove the button panel from the vehicle at no cost for owners of model year 2001–2004 vehicles.
It should not be confused with the field of view (FOV), which is the angular cone perceivable by the sensor at a particular time instant.
Precast parking structures As multi-storey car parks have become more common since the middle of the twentieth century, many constructions of such structures have been using precast concrete to reduce the construction time.
Devices which are not "NMEA 2000 Certified" may not legally use the NMEA 2000 trademark in their advertising.
Like other beacon technology, beacons with Eddystone can give devices a better indication of what objects and places are around them.
A Notice Advisory to Navstar Users (NANU) is a message issued jointly by the United States Coast Guard and the GPS Operations Center at Schriever Space Force Base in Colorado.
The reason given was that the program's problems had "proved insurmountable", and that the projected cost had grown to nearly the cost of the fleet of GPS satellites themselves, at nearly $8 billion.
These times are then converted to a 'wait time' and made available via the NextBus website and electronic signs at bus stops and tram stops as well as cell phones, and other wireless devices via the Internet.
Theoretical basis This technology is based on the reflected signal modulation caused by movements of the human body and internal organs.
In 2014 the team founded GiPStech - as academic spin-off of Università della Calabria - to complete the R&D and commercialize the platform.
The yet to be developed game technology is described to be an evolution of the previously 2-dimensional games that used flat material only.
Raymarine SeaTalk 2, Raymarine SeaTalkNG, Simrad Simnet, and Furuno CAN are rebranded implementations of NMEA 2000, though may use physical connectors different from the standardised DeviceNet 5-pin A-coded M12 screw connector, all of which are electrically compatible and can be directly connected.
In 2017, Gurtam launched Flespi, a specialized backend platform-as-a-service (PaaS) for a broader range of IoT and telematics applications beyond traditional fleet management.
With the rise of smart phones, package tracking mobile apps were able to send tracking info to customers' cell phones.
Microsoft uses a similar technology, also called Advertising ID, that is generated for each device and user.
Locating in relative coordinates ID signals from a tag are received by a multiplicity of readers in a sensory network, and a position is estimated using one or more locating algorithms, such as trilateration, multilateration, or triangulation.
It was established by Presidential Directive in 2004 and supersedes the Interagency GPS Executive Board.
Beginning with its iOS 14.5 software update, Apple will allow its users to choose whether to allow apps to track their IDFA.
1996–1999: Economic crisis and fall into disrepair Since the first generation satellites operated for 3 years each, to keep the system at full capacity, two launches per year would have been necessary to maintain the full network of 24 satellites.
This makes these devices accessible by output of synthetic speech and also allow the use of third-party software, such as Loadstone GPS.
The progression of GPS technology, along with the development of various online applications, has fueled the popularity of such tagged blogging, and the combination of GPS phones and GSM localization, has led to the moblogging, where blog posts are tagged with exact position of the user.
The company has leveraged its platform to enable operators to address the advertising and data monetization opportunity both internally and in partnership with third party retailers, advertisers, and ad networks.
The Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) along with AAI has launched a new satellite-based GEMINI (Gagan Enabled Mariner's Instrument for Navigation and Information) system that will alert deep-sea fishermen of upcoming disasters.
In navigation, the course of a watercraft or aircraft is the cardinal direction in which the craft is to be steered.
It does not use GPS services, therefore cannot be used for an app depending on real time (sending notifications immediately, etc).
The system is also available in many other smaller universities and public transportation agencies for a total of approximately 100 systems.
Features such as these include proprietary analytics and work process automation (e.g., Work Orders, Procurement Processes, Material Requests, etc.).
Post-mission data processing is performed to further refine the results, with two-dimensional positioning accuracies of 1 to 2 meters and impact timing accuracies of 1-2 milliseconds demonstrated.
Nowadays water vapour estimates are generated routinely in real time (latency measured in hours) by permanent geodetic GPS networks existing in many parts of the world.
FreeTrack interface FreeTrack has a simple interface that can be freely used by third party programs such as Eyeware Beam to access 6DOF tracking data, both real raw measurements and virtual.
However, it is unlike direct-sequence spread spectrum (DSSS) or frequency-hopping spread spectrum (FHSS) in that it does not add any pseudo-random elements to the signal to help distinguish it from noise on the channel, instead relying on the linear nature of the chirp pulse.
To do this, it uses knowledge of network topology and a range of location determination techniques to locate devices that are attached to the network.
For example, if a single CPU can compute 1,000,000 encrypted MACs per second, then generating the full table takes 8.9 CPU-years.
The solar-powered collars play an audible tone when the animal reaches the pasture boundary, and if they continue, the collar delivers a small shock, similar to what an animal might receive from a fixed electric fence.
Six degrees of freedom capability is not necessary for all virtual reality experiences, but it is useful when the user needs to move things other than their head.
Nofence is a Norwegian company that makes GPS collars for farm animals (cattle, sheep, and goats) that discourage them from crossing virtual fence boundaries.
UBXN stock quote New possibilities with internet of things Archived 2015-10-28 at the Wayback Machine Multi Radio Solution Improving 3D automotive navigation accuracy M2M alliance
Steel construction features: Cost savings: inexpensive to manufacture and erect, and requires less maintenance than traditional building methods.
In 2024, the company partnered with Fleet Forum, an international non-profit organization, to support the fleet digitalization of humanitarian aid fleets.
FCSTCANC, or Forecast Cancellation, cancels a scheduled outage; new maintenance time not yet determined; references the original NANU.
Models can be made in a DIY fashion at minimal expense using readily available electronic components.
The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) ruled that cellular telephone companies operating in the United States are no longer required to provide analog service after February 2008.
Privacy concerns The capability for detailed monitoring creates a natural tension between operational oversight and an individual's right to privacy.
The course is to be distinguished from the heading, which is the direction where the watercraft's bow or the aircraft's nose is pointed.
For example, using blob tracking is useful for identifying human movement because a person's profile changes dynamically.
Users can share their location and messages based on their account preference, alerting friends and family to their whereabouts.
Technology Since the late 1980s animal tracking via satellite has been accomplished through the use of the Argos system, which was historically limited to larger animals.
The term PNA has come into widespread use with the growing popularity of automobile navigation systems.
Moiré phase tracking is an approach to deriving three dimensional spatial and rotational information of tracked objects.
The major change is DTOA navigation systems cross-correlate each received signal with a stored replica of the transmitted signal (rather than another received signal).
With the purchase of a subscription, SPOT allows short (41 character) user-defined text messages which can be sent to a list of telephone numbers and e-mail addresses.
The amplitude of thorax surface displacement caused by respiratory muscles contractions is about 1 cm, while the same parameter for heart beating is only 1 mm.
Passive implementations are retroreflectors which reflect the IR light back towards the source with little scattering.
The idea is that this process allows companies like Google and CrowdVision – which track users' movements via their computer hardware – to simultaneously protect the identities of the people they are tracking while tracking the hardware itself.
The path that a vessel follows is called a track or, in the case of aircraft, ground track (also known as course made good or course over the ground).
The project is led by Martin Wikelski, director of the Max Planck Institute of Animal Behavior in Radolfzell and a professor of ornithology at the University of Konstanz.
References Further reading San Francisco misses the NextBus – Computerworld Get There – NextBus System Well Worth a Try Post Now – NextBus predictions – not so accurate Get There - Metro Transit: NextBus Launches Today External links NextBus company homepage
The purposes for doing so are numerous, for example from welfare and public security to mass surveillance.
The dwell time in global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) is the time required to test for the presence of a satellite signal for a certain combination of parameters.
However, it is often better than no correction, since ionospheric error is the largest error source for a single-frequency GPS receiver.
Satellite communication: For operations in remote locales such as mining, forestry, or long-haul shipping where cellular signals are absent, satellite networks like Iridium or Globalstar offer a more expensive but essential alternative to ensure uninterrupted data flow.
The follow-on Advanced Targeting Pod – Sensor Enhancement (ATP-SE) contract was split between the Lockheed Martin Sniper and the LITENING.
Magnetic positioning is an IPS (Indoor positioning system) solution that takes advantage of the magnetic field anomalies typical of indoor settings by using them as distinctive place recognition signatures.
It has been offered as a factory-installed option, available on certain Lexus models (LX, GX, LS, and GS), offering call-center-based telematics services to owners with equipped vehicles in the United States and Canada.
Canvas and WebGL Canvas fingerprinting uses the HTML5 canvas element, which is used by WebGL to render 2D and 3D graphics in a browser, to gain identifying information about the installed graphics driver, graphics card, or graphics processing unit (GPU).
The NaviDrive system is a voice-activated radio, CD player, telephone, and GPS automotive head unit, assembled in some models of the Citroën C8, Citroën C6, Citroën C5, Citroën C4, Citroën C3, and Peugeot vehicles.
Those features are not available with the similar, but older, PPS-SM (Precise Positioning Service Security Module) system.
With its first round of funding in 2015, the company established a customer base of mid-sized insurers.
One approach involves reporting the arrival or departure of the package and recording the identity of the package, the location, the time, and the status.
Privacy concerns Amid concerns over locational privacy, Google announced that Latitude overwrites a user's previous location with the new location data and does not keep logs of locations provided to the service.
gpsd is a computer software program that collects data from a Global Positioning System (GPS) receiver and provides the data via an Internet Protocol (IP) network to potentially multiple client applications in a server-client application architecture.
This can include battery level, sensor data, or other relevant information to beacon administrators.
By and large, these physical locations are identified and defined using one or more of three coordinate systems: the Cartesian rectilinear system, the spherical polar system, and the cylindrical system.
Compatibility Google Latitude was compatible with most devices running iOS, Android, BlackBerry OS, Windows Mobile, and Symbian S60.
A navigator determines the bearing (the compass direction from the craft's current position) of the next waypoint.
The company's initial focus was on developing software for vehicle tracking systems, which led to the creation of its primary platform, Wialon.
Senator Chuck Schumer proposed a law requiring drone manufacturers to build geofencing constraints into unmanned aerial vehicle navigation systems that would override the commands of the unsophisticated operator, preventing the device from flying into protected airspace.
Since 2007 it has produced a standalone handheld GPS satellite navigation mapping device for use by walkers, cyclists, mountain rescue, emergency services and the military.
Eddystone-URL broadcasts a URL of at most 18 characters that redirects to a website that is secured using SSL.
Gbanga Santa (2009) The advent calendar game, Gbanga Santa, was launched in December 2009 in Zurich.
The system typically consists of two main parts: a client-side application or agent installed on the device to be tracked, and a server-side platform that receives, processes, and displays the location data to the user.
are running an off-the-shelf embedded operating system such as Windows CE or Embedded Linux on commodity hardware with OEM versions of popular PDA Navigation software packages such as TomTom Navigator, I-GO 2006, Netropa IntelliNav iGuidance, or Destinator.
Traceability supports numerous software engineering activities such as change impact analysis, compliance verification or traceback of code, regression test selection, and requirements validation.
If z {\displaystyle z} is the zenith angle, the propagation path delay is proportional to 1 cos ⁡ z {\displaystyle {\frac {1}{\cos z}}} .
In 2015, Driveway Software partnered with the insurance analytics firm Pinnacle Actuarial Resources to offer a coordinated UBI solution based on driver scoring.
Furthermore, manufacturers will frequently assign contiguous address blocks to specific devices allows for fine-grained mapping of the devices in use – allowing the device type to be identified with only a small part of the MAC Address.
Another approach is to use a GPS-based vehicle tracking system and nowadays Beacons to locate the vehicle that contains the package and record it in a real-time database.
Asset Suite EAM aims to support decision-making processes by balancing financial performance, operational performance, and risk.
This provided many in the United States general public with their first opportunity to use car navigation.
Particle filter: useful for sampling the underlying state-space distribution of nonlinear and non-Gaussian processes.
LocationSmart provides near real-time location data for devices including smartphones, feature phones, tablets, M2M, IoT and other connected devices on Tier 1 and Tier 2 wireless networks in the U.S.
GPS meteorology refers to the use of the effect of the atmosphere on the propagation of the Global Positioning System's (GPS) radio signals to derive information on the state of the (lower, neutral) atmosphere.
In addition, the data could be requested by anyone anonymously, with no authentication, authorization, or payment required.
Users may not be aware of the extent of the information that is exposed and potentially recorded by consenting to the use of the Nearby API.
However, a defect in the ICARUS computer system meant it had to be returned to Earth, fixed, and transported back to the station in 2019.
In fleet management, it is used to automate timekeeping at job sites and to alert managers of unauthorized vehicle use.
This involves the website loading a font using the @font-face CSS directive, or directly loading a CSS font by applying the font-family directive to an HTML element.
Hot or standby The receiver has valid time, position, almanac, and ephemeris data, enabling a rapid acquisition of satellite signals.
Products and technology u-blox develops and sells chips and modules that support global navigation satellite systems (GNSS), including receivers for GPS, GLONASS, Galileo, BeiDou and QZSS.
This integration facilitates the real-time collection and analysis of data related to a vehicle's location, its mechanical health, and the performance of its driver.
During the middle of the first decade of the 2000s, the Russian economy boomed, resulting in substantial increases in the country's space budget.
A successful take-over depends on the Famiglia's power, determined by the number of Famiglia members and the cash total for special items collected.
Alternately, a choke point identifier can be received by the moving tag and then relayed, usually via a second wireless channel, to a location processor.
A device fingerprint or machine fingerprint is information collected about the software and hardware of a remote computing device for the purpose of identification.
Grapenet, an initiative by Agriculture and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), Ministry of Commerce, Government of India is an example in this direction.
GIBs may be used in conjunction with an active underwater device (such as a pinger equipped torpedo), or with a passive acoustic sound source (such as an inert bomb striking the surface of the water).
Water vapour is a very important gas for meteorological and climatological studies, because of the latent heat it carries in transport.
A new way of guidance has been developed by using the smartphone's vibration feature to indicate the direction to follow.
The goal of EAM is to maximize the value and efficiency of these assets while minimizing associated costs and risks.
The association can be especially difficult when the objects are moving fast relative to the frame rate.
Overview As with other spread spectrum methods, chirp spread spectrum uses its entire allocated bandwidth to broadcast a signal, making it robust to channel noise.
In addition, they can be applied in a host of other fields, such as professional selection, pharmacology, and zoo-psychology, etc.
For example, the assimilation of an additional browser setting into the browser fingerprint would usually increase diversity, but it would also reduce stability, because if a user changes that setting, then the browser fingerprint would change as well.
The contract provided for pods and associated equipment, spares and support of the F-16 and F-15E aircraft for the Air Force and Air National Guard.
As a result, people are often not aware that the photos they publish on the Internet have been geotagged.
A search process detects whether a GNSS satellite is present or not in an area of the sky, based on correlation of a received signal with a reference signal stored in the receiver.
The field of regard is the total area that a sensing system can perceive by pointing the sensor, which is typically much larger than the sensor's FOV.
Post-mission the GPS and acoustic data from the GIBs would be combined to determine an absolute coordinate for the impact location in WGS 84 coordinates.
Using Cell ID locations to find device location is more power efficient and often faster than using satellite-based navigation systems, although it is less precise because of the lack of known Cell IDs.
OCX Block 1 with the L2C navigation data was scheduled to enter service in February 2016, but was delayed until 2022 or later.
Satmap Systems Limited is a United Kingdom company founded on 19 October 2005 and based in Leatherhead, Surrey.
medical, accident, fire), by asking a few questions and sends the appropriate emergency services to the exact location of the vehicle.
The primary purpose of a tracking system is to provide location-based data to improve efficiency, safety, and security across a wide range of applications.
It is also found that the dimensional structure and characteristics of phase space can naturally neutralize the bias of positioning (based on techniques such as triangulation or trilateration) caused by reasons such as multipath.
Members of the HASC asked for an investigation into Dennis Roberson, who is both the head of FCC's Technical Advisory Council and the head of Roberson and Associates, which provided a report to the FCC on Ligado's behalf.
As a precaution to extend the operational life of navigation satellite, ISRO is running only one rubidium atomic clock instead of two in the remaining six satellites.
Identifying geotagged information resources on sites like Flickr and del.icio.us is done by searching for the 'geotagged' tag, since the tags beginning geo:lat= and geo:lon= are necessarily very variable.
The service became quickly popular: for UPS the number of packages tracked on the web increased from 600 a day in 1995 to 3.3 million a day in 1999.
If the sign of the z component of the cross product is positive, we consider that the point is a peak, and in the case that the result of the cross product is negative, it will be a valley.
To get precise output (for example to be able to touch the fingertips), the hand skeleton has to be properly scaled to match the real hand.
a barcode, any passive and active RFID, then, feeding read data into Work in Progress models (WIP) or Warehouse Management Systems (WMS) or ERP software.
The network interface provides a standardized data format for multiple concurrent client applications, such as Kismet or GPS navigation software.
In May 2010, Google announced an API for Latitude for developers to incorporate Latitude functionality into their apps.
History Founded in 1995, TechnoCom Corporation was headquartered in Los Angeles and called one of the area's fastest growing companies in 2003 by Deloitte & Touche.
The first citation of positioning based on magnetic anomaly can be traced back to military applications in 1970.
Announcing that cash machines were fitted with sprayers of SmartWater, an invisible gel detectable for years, to mark thieves and their clothing when breaking into or tampering with the machine was found in a 2016 pilot scheme to reduce theft by 90%.
For efficiency, these identifiers are represented as 16-bit or 32-bit values in the protocol, rather than the 128 bits required for a full UUID.
Palmetto Pass users pay the same rate as cash payers ($1.50) at the two interchanges with ramp tolls.
While MHT or JPDAF handles the association and track maintenance, an IMM helps MHT or JPDAF in obtaining a filtered estimate of the target position.
In older hardware where satellite search is slower, a cold start may take more than the full 12.5 minutes.
It has a coverage area that includes a large portion of the planet, with the exception of extreme northern and southern latitudes and parts of the Pacific Ocean.
Games Gbanga Zooh (2009) Gbanga Zooh was the first game to be published on the platform in August 2009, in cooperation with Zurich Zoo.
Instead, Ali and Dyo use the overall rate of collision in the dataset and provide that the probability of there being a collision p can be calculated by p = 1 − ( 1 − 1 / n ) m − 1 {\displaystyle p=1-(1-1/n)^{m-1}} where there are m MAC Addresses and n possible hash digests.
Map data vendors such as Tele Atlas and Navteq create the base map in a GDF (Geographic Data Files) format, but each electronics manufacturer compiles it in an optimized, usually proprietary manner.
Determination Assume a surveillance system calculates the time differences ( τ i {\displaystyle \tau _{i}} for i = 1 , 2 , .
Note that most mobile navigation applications (Maps, Google Maps, Waze, etc.) offer proprietary systems of this type.
Such notices (NANUs) provide updates on the general health of individual satellites in the GPS constellation.
On May 17, 2018, media outlets reported that the LocationSmart website allowed anyone to obtain the realtime location of any cell phone using any of the major U.S.
In 1998, the company had an initial public offering on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, raising the capital required to develop the service overseas in the United States, Brazil and Argentina.
The ceiling slab of the steel structure car park is typically made of composite material such as corrugated steel sheets and concrete.
At each candidate user position, the predicted satellite visibility is matched with the real observations.
Additionally, after the ruling, the Department of Defense and Department of Transportation issued a joint statement of opposition; the latter noted safety losses from impacts to E-911 service.
SWEPOS is a support system for accurate measurement of Swedish geography using a network of fixed reference stations which gather GNSS data.
It will help people who require supervision, such as old people, children, and people with reduced vision.
As a spin-off of MIT Media Lab, it was a semi-finalist in MIT's $50,000 Entrepreneurship Competition in 2000 and was incorporated the following year.
It uses a glove composed of a set of colors which are assigned according to the position of the fingers.
These methods allow the tracking of complex objects along with more complex object interaction like tracking objects moving behind obstructions.
It makes no assumptions about the distributions of the errors in the filter and neither does it require the equations to be linear.
More than 49,000 contributors are registered with OpenCelliD, contributing more than 1 million new measurements every day on average to the OpenCelliD database.
CSS fingerprinting is a browser fingerprinting technique that allows a website to identify and track visitors using CSS.
is sleeping or sitting in a fixed pose) modulation of bio-radar signal is caused mainly by respiratory movements (0.2-0.5 Hz) and heart and superficial arteries pulsations (0.5–20 Hz).
This problem may be noticeable mainly because hands are often in contact with different things, often made of metal.
Limited studies authored by the company founder suggest the approach has greater accuracy than some traditional methods.
They can be classified into single dwell times, when the decision is taken in one step, and multiple dwell times, when the decision is taken in two or more steps.
A Personal Navigation Assistant (PNA) also known as Personal Navigation Device or Portable Navigation Device (PND) is a portable electronic product which combines a positioning capability (such as GPS) and navigation functions.
Because magnetic tracking does not require a head-mounted display, which are frequently used in virtual reality, it is often the tracking system used in fully immersive virtual reality displays.
A key feature distinguishing telematics from basic tracking is its interface with the vehicle's computer via the CAN bus or OBD-II port, which provides access to a rich stream of diagnostic data, including engine RPM, fuel levels, and fault codes.
See also Geolocation software Hybrid positioning system Mobile phone tracking Bringrr Skyhook Wireless Laptop theft Prey (software) == References ==
In digital communications, chirp spread spectrum (CSS) is a spread spectrum technique that uses wideband linear frequency modulated chirp pulses to encode information.
OCX Block 0 (launch and checkout for Block III) OCX Block 0 provides the minimum subset of full OCX capabilities necessary to support launch and early on-orbit spacecraft bus checkout on GPS III space vehicles.
The leaders in the field offer connected devices: TomTom LIVE (integrated with Renault R-Link), Garmin 1690, Medion, Navigon LIVE, Goodkap!
Driveway Software is a telematics company that provides a smartphone-based platform for the usage-based insurance (UBI) industry.
LightSquared officials, who had contributed to both Republicans and Democrats, denied the allegations.
Given an address of 11:22:33:44:55:66, the MD5 hash algorithm produces eb341820cd3a3485461a61b1e97d31b1 (32 hexadecimal digits).
CSS fingerprinting is stateless, that is, it does not require the computer system running the browser to remember information.
Many of these references do not comply with the definitions given in international standardization with ISO/IEC 19762-5 and ISO/IEC 24730-1.
See also Defense Advanced GPS Receiver Precision Lightweight GPS Receiver References External links GPSworld.com article "Saving SAASM" by Robert Huffman (January 2006) - The file is not available.
In 2017 Microsoft Edge is considered to be the most fingerprintable browser, followed by Firefox and Google Chrome, Internet Explorer, and Safari.
GrapeNet is an internet based traceability software system for monitoring fresh grapes exported from India to the European Union.
This way they limit their ad spending on prospects who are more likely to purchase in order to get a better ROI.
During the Industry Day event, the Air Force shared the tentative acquisition strategy which it will use to evaluate proposals, then solicited feedback from potential bidders.
One option available to machine owners was to visit multiple websites to manually retrieve data from each manufacturer's telematics interface and then manually enter it into their fleet management program's database.
Fenceless grazing is being supported by conservationists and farmers, particularly in sensitive areas or difficult upland areas where physical fencing would be impractical, expensive or inappropriate.
Active 10 PLUS GB (the device, a case, a lanyard, a power pack including adaptors and a 2700mAh lithium polymer rechargeable battery, the UK GB 1:50,000 Ordnance Survey map).
In the case of the original GPS design, two frequencies are utilized; one at 1575.42 MHz (10.23 MHz × 154) called L1; and a second at 1227.60 MHz (10.23 MHz × 120), called L2.
NMEA 2000 is meant to be "plug and play" to allow devices made by different manufacturers to communicate with each other.
GPS Industry Council and NTIA about LightSquared's proposed operations, the FCC stated that LightSquared could not commence offering a commercial terrestrial service until the agency concluded that the harmful interference concerns had been resolved.
eCall: In the European Union, eCall is a mandated in-vehicle system that automatically contacts emergency services in the event of a serious accident, transmitting the vehicle's location.
The project's migratory data may also provide greater insight into the propagation of animal-borne diseases like SARS, bird flu, and West Nile virus.
Advantages Lofting offers several distinct advantages compared to sea-skimming and direct-intercept trajectories, particularly in beyond-visual-range engagements.
The company also has a presence in emerging markets, ranking among the top fleet digitalization platforms in both Latin America and Southeast Asia.
As a result, GPS Block IIIF introduces a number of improvements and novel capabilities compared to all previous GPS satellite blocks.
System enhancements Engineering efforts for Block IIIF satellites began upon contract award in 2016—a full 16 years after the government approved entry into the initial modernization efforts for GPS III in 2000.
gpsd supports interfacing with the Network Time Protocol (NTP) server ntpd via shared memory to enable setting the host platform's time via the GPS clock.
Time to first fix (TTFF) is a measure of the time required for a GPS navigation device to acquire satellite signals and navigation data, and calculate a position solution (called a fix).
Nuclear Detonation Detection System (USNDS) capability that is both smaller and lighter than previous systems.
The JETDS system also now is used to name all Department of Defense and some NATO electronic systems.
Standardization would improve interoperability, specifically by allowing the same navigation maps to be used in navigation systems from 20 manufacturers.
By analyzing the results of these queries and comparing them against a previously compiled database of extension fingerprints, an attacker can identify which extensions a user has installed.
Fully-digital navigation GPS IIIF satellites are the first to feature a 100% digital navigation payload.
Farmers can use a mobile app to change boundaries and monitor the animals throughout the day, and avoid over-grazing.
According to a statement released by the DRDO, G3oM is a state-of-the-art technology receiver, integrating Indian GAGAN as well as both global positioning system and GLONASS systems.
Device tracking software is a type of software that allows a user to monitor the real-time or historical location of an electronic device, and by extension, the person or item carrying it.
See also Automatic vehicle location Driver scoring Fleet digitalization Fleet management Fuel-management systems GPS tracking unit Intelligent transportation system Stolen vehicle recovery Telematic control unit Telematics Vehicle tracking system Video telematics == References ==
They transmit the following data: A unique ID Power left in the battery How many times it has transmitted a message Time since power-on or reboot Its temperature They will ignore this information from any beacons that do not use an ID number belonging to Waze.
Because water currents or wind can cause a craft to drift off course, a navigator sets a course to steer that compensates for drift.
In 2019, starting from Firefox version 69, Enhanced Tracking Protection has been turned on by default for all users also during non-private browsing.
Communication runs at 250 kilobits-per-second and allows any sensor to talk to any display unit or other device compatible with NMEA 2000 protocols.
In 2011, Ituran signed an agreement with Pelephone which allows Ituran to use Pelephone's network to set up an MVNO (mobile virtual network operator) venture.
Chirp spread spectrum may also be used in the future for military applications as it is very difficult to detect and intercept when operating at low power.
Marker functionality Markers operate through interaction points, which are usually already set and we have the knowledge about the regions.
and Naventik GmbH, a German company specializing in the development of safe positioning solutions for autonomous driving.
The Palmetto Pass has no interoperability agreements with other states or agencies that operate electronic toll collection systems.
Among them a tweet by John McAfee that went viral, in which McAfee claimed that the "Presidential alert" involved the E911 system, and that smartphones have a "E911 chip" capable of giving the government access to the phone's location and microphone.
This allows the GPS measurement data to be transmitted and received on legacy VHF sonobuoy receiver equipment.
Automatic identification and system integration Beyond the timing of data collection, a key distinction lies in how the identification is performed.
Google calls their implementation "Google Advertising ID" (GAID) and formerly "Android ID", "Android Device ID", or "Android Advertising ID" (AAID).
In 2021, u-blox AG acquired Sapcorda Services GmbH, a provider of high precision GNSS (global navigation satellite system) services.
According to Chinoitezvi Honour, some phones automatically geotag pictures hence location should be turned off when taking pictures.
EAM is used to plan, optimize, execute, and track the needed maintenance activities with the associated priorities, skills, materials, tools, and information.
NextBus is a public transit vehicle tracking system which uses automatic vehicle location (AVL) information, often from global positioning satellite receivers, to predict when the next vehicle will arrive at any given transit stop, which attempts to reduce wait times and reliance on schedules.
FreeTrack compatibility is still possible using TrackIRFixer to remove the encryption requirement in games.
§ 2703(d) Contains a provision that allows for the collection of data like that used in this case via a special court order, often referred to as a "D-order".
In November 2007, Ituran sold Telematics Wireless to Singapore based ST Electronics, part of the ST Engineering corporation, for $90 million.
It focuses on power-efficient wireless MIDI communication for devices such as MIDI controllers, keyboards, pedals etc that don't continuously stream data and without a significant latency.
However, the General's spokesperson denied there was any improper influence and said that the general's testimony was reviewed appropriately by the Office of the Secretary of Defense and other executive agencies via the established Office of Management and Budget process.
An attacker can exploit this by setting up a website that employs CSS container queries to detect these modifications.
While telemetry refers specifically to the remote measurement and transmission of data (widely used in fields such as aerospace, meteorology, medicine, and defense), telematics incorporates telemetry but extends it with telecommunications, informatics, and integration into digital platforms.
Professor Janne Haverinen founded the company IndoorAtlas in 2012 to commercialize the magnetic positioning solution with dual headquarters in Mountain View, CA and Oulu, Finland.
It uses data from OpenStreetMap alongside their own databases and with this information, RightHear provides their users with multilingual audio-descriptions of the environment, indoors and outdoors.
Typically the sound source or impact event is tracked or localized using a time of arrival (TOA) technique.
Groundhog Inc., Groundhog Technologies Inc.'s operation center in Taiwan, went public in 2022 The company's products are built on top of its Mobility Intelligence Platform, which analyzes the locations, quality of experience, context, and lifestyles of subscribers in mobile operator's network.
Lofting, sometimes referred to as "trajectory shaping", is a trajectory optimization technique used in some missile systems to extend range and improve target engagement effectiveness, usually in beyond-visual range scenarios.
The principle of shadow matching combines two commonly known principles together: GNSS signal availability determination using 3D building models and the fingerprinting-like positioning techniques.
Impulse, linearly or step-frequency modulated and monochromatic signals can be used as probing ones.
Messages and files at any point in the system can then be audited for correctness and completeness, using the traceability software to find the particular transaction and/or product within the supply chain.
An advertising ID is a unique user identifier (ID) assigned to a mobile device (smart phone, tablet computer), or operating environment, to help advertising services personalize their offers.
Due to obstruction by buildings in urban canyons, some of the GNSS satellites will be receivable in some parts of a street, but not all of them.
In 2009, an expanded system with added functionality, Lexus Enform with Safety Connect, succeeded Lexus Link.
Authors gpsd was originally written by Remco Treffkorn with Derrick Brashear, then maintained by Russell Nelson.
Cell tower triangulation fails: The device can't communicate with cell towers, preventing network-based location.
The member driven volunteer organization that represents the people who staff the PSAPs, the National Emergency Number Association (NENA.org), has done significant work advocating on the subject of MLTS E911.
Many cell phones reduce the time to first fix by using assisted GPS (A-GPS): they acquire almanac and ephemeris data over a fast network connection from the cell-phone operator rather than over the slow radio connection from the satellites.
In April 2007, Crowley and Rainert left Google, with Crowley describing their experience there as "incredibly frustrating".
The Eleventh Circuit has since vacated this decision pending a rehearing by the Eleventh Circuit en banc.
Air Force's initial seven-year contract for Sniper ATP had a potential value in excess of US$843 (equivalent to $1,533 in 2025) million.
Space-based One can receive on a low flying satellite the signals from the much higher orbiting (20 000 km) GPS satellite constellation.
The application supports many types of GPS receivers with connections via serial ports, USB, and Bluetooth.
By fixing a special marker with designs that result in moiré patterns, a camera can infer the pose of the marker and the object to which it is attached.
Enterprise asset management software Enterprise asset management software is a computer software that handles every aspect of running a public works or asset-intensive organization.
The Loadstone community is working on importing coordinates from free sources, such as the OpenStreetMap project.
This can reduce a missile's ability to adjust for fast-moving or maneuvering targets, however can be circumvented with the use of thrust vectoring - at the downside of added cost and complexity.
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, factory output and transportation demand fell, bringing overall demand for oil down as well, and causing oil prices to fall.
Multisectoral:This includes undertakings that cut across more than one sector and often supports the activities of Social Investment Funds, whose projects are usually demand-driven at a local level and have a strong element of community participation.
Wells that have been used as injectors or have been subject to fracking operation are more likely to develop leaks because the injected substances can create channels that permit uncontrolled flow outside the casing.
See also Psychology of previous investment Capital expenditure References Oilfield Glossary EPA Well Abandonment Cost Form
Saudi Arabia and other oil-exploiting countries of the region received up to 50% of the profits in cooperation with American oil companies at the same time.
Agriculture and ranching grew stronger as the rapidly expanding population created more demand for their produce.
In the absence of external shocks, an economic equilibrium relationship between the two should exist.
Rasau is part of an 11-kilometre road connecting Sungai Teraban and Sungai Tujoh, which facilitates easier travel between Brunei and Sarawak's Miri Division, including Miri and surrounding areas.
For light oils and rich gas condensates the ultimate GOR of export streams is strongly influenced by the efficiency with which the processing plant strips liquids from the gas phase.
A new intraday record high of $78.40 was set on July 14, 2006, prompted by the firing of at least six missiles by North Korea on July 4–5, 2006, and escalating Middle East violence.
As Carlos entered the conference room and fired shots into the ceiling, the delegates ducked under the table.
The gas/oil ratio (GOR) is the ratio of the volume of gas ("scf") that comes out of solution to the volume of oil — at standard conditions.
Family and education Ghafour Youssefiani born on March 19, 1928, was the first child of Mirza Ahmad Youssefiani, born in Saqqez, Iran, into a Saqqez-based Iranian family of Kurdish heritage.
September–October 2000: 30 million barrels (4,800,000 m3) in response to a concern over low distillate levels in the northeastern U.S.
In 2024, the revenue generated by SOFAZ from the sale of oil from the ACG field was US$ 5,725 billion.
Poorer members have pushed for production cuts from fellow members, to increase the price of oil and thus their own revenues.
Such behaviour, predicted by all canonical industry / market pricing models (perfect competition, monopoly) is called symmetric price transmission.
Wanda Jablonski (23 August 1920, in Czechoslovakia – 28 January 1992, in New York City) was an American journalist who covered the global petroleum industry.
22% of stations in London and the South-East remained without fuel and 40% were lacking one of the main fuel grades.
The interrupter is based on a formula that will determine whether the market prices of fuels have changed enough to warrant a price change .
Katz, Praeger/Greenwood, ISBN 0-275-93380-6 External links Energy Information Administration: Petroleum Chronology of Events 1970–2000 174 Years of Historic Houston: Oil Glut and the Economic Downturn
Atlanta-based ICE operates four regulated futures exchanges, two over-the-counter markets and five clearing houses globally.
An annual rate of decline of 5.1% in 800 of the world's largest oil fields was reported by the International Energy Agency in their World Energy Outlook 2008.
This causes Export Land's net exports over the five-year period to fall from 1 mbpd to 0.3 mbpd, a decrease of 70% -- resulting from a combination of increasing domestic consumption in Export Land and a 25% drop in production.
As the figures represent a single month rather than full-year averages, they may be subject to short-term fluctuations caused by factors such as maintenance shutdowns, seasonal variations, or geopolitical events.
They contend that the peak of industrial civilization did not occur in 1979, but rather after 2004, with the duration of industrial civilization projected to extend from 1950 to 2044.
As part of the Russo-Ukrainian war, Ukrainian drones had occasionally targeted Russian refineries since 2024, causing expense and inconvenience.
Eventually, however, the level of export decline outpaces the increasing oil price, slowing domestic growth.
Lower quality of life makes it more difficult to attract the additional population needed to support growth of services.
Treasury securities and in other financial markets of the major industrial economies, often directed discreetly by government entities now known as sovereign wealth funds.
Johnston reportedly promised significant donations to the Liberal Party and an attempt was made to secure a funding grant from the government's A$500-million Low Emission Technology Demonstration Fund.
Due to the risk of confusion The Society of Petroleum Engineers recommends in their style guide that abbreviations or prefixes M or MM are not used for barrels of oil or barrel of oil equivalent, but rather that thousands, millions or billions are spelled out.
Consumer price inflation has declined from the 38.8% experienced in 1994 following the CFA franc devaluation, to 7.8% in 1998, and 1.0% in 1999, according to BEAC data.
Overview The Platts assessment process determines the value of physical commodities 15–30 days forward for many oil products loading in Singapore.
Faisal felt his efforts on behalf the United States were not being appreciated in Washington, which increased his fury at Nixon.
Viable mitigation options exist on both the supply and demand sides, but to have substantial impact, they must be initiated more than a decade in advance of peaking.
Since the invention of agriculture, humans have increasingly used exogenous sources of energy to multiply human muscle power.
Critics of the steady-state economy usually object to it by arguing that resource decoupling, technological development, and the operation of market mechanisms are capable of overcoming resource scarcity, pollution, or population overshoot.
Such moves strain the confidence of international oil companies in forming partnerships with Russia.
The oil depletion allowance in American (US) tax law is a tax break claimable by anyone with an economic interest in a mineral deposit or standing timber.
This causes $2 trillion USD of stock to become worthless, and oil workers are dismissed as the industry collapses.
Gas Initially In Place = Gross Rock Volume * Net/Gross * Porosity * average initial Gas Saturation / Formation Volume Factor == References ==
All those multiples are commonly combined with barrel of oil equivalent from the level of individual production units output per day to level of petroleum reserves.
The company also operates 105 "Ahlain" convenience stores across the country, which include everyday products, restaurants and cafés.
Defense industry In 2007 the International Institute for Strategic Studies estimated Iran's defense budget at $7.31 billion, equivalent to 2.6% of GDP or $102 per capita, ranking it 25th internationally.
Background The summit was announced during the first meeting of the High-Level Ad Hoc Group for the 3rd Gas Summit on 20 May 2015.
Reuters reported that "If Saudi Arabia failed to rein in output, US senators called on the White House to impose sanctions on Riyadh, pull out US troops from the kingdom and impose import tariffs on Saudi oil." OPEC expected demand to fall by 6.8 million bpd, later to reduce by up to 35 million bpd.
there is such a thing as absolute scarcity, and there is such a thing as purely relative and trivial wants".
(The data below does not seem to include shale oil and other unconventional sources of oil such as tar sands.
As of February 2024, oil production has slowed, with plans to add one or two more drilling rigs in the area in 2024.
[1] Professional experience In 1958, as a member of Abadan Refinery's Center for Petrochemical Engineering, he initiated a number of innovations, including an innovative formulation for the production of JP4 (Jet Fuel), which until 1995 was used world-wide to fuel fighter jets.
According to CNET, that information included "users' latitude, longitude, IP address, and time stamps on the data collected," which sparked concern in the media and between its users.
After appearing before an all party committee on petroleum pricing, the Nova Scotia legislature passed Bill 79 The Nova Scotia Petroleum Products Pricing Act.
China, with a currency constantly growing on market relevance, attempted to create a dollar alternative.
Most of the world's largest oilfields are located in the Middle East, but there are also super giant (5 billion bbls) oilfields in Brazil, Mexico, Venezuela, Kazakhstan, and Russia.
Olivine, composed of Forsterite and Fayalite metamorphoses into serpentine, magnetite and silica by the following reactions, with silica from fayalite decomposition (reaction 1a) feeding into the forsterite reaction (1b).
In June 2017, the People's Bank of China and the Central Bank of Russia signed a memorandum to facilitate the exchange of crude oil using yuans.
On 26 March 2018, the Chinese government issued the first long term oil trading contracts denominated in petroyuans.
The EU implemented a bloc-wide carbon tax; many nations increased gas taxes and/or passed a carbon tax.
The volumes in the table represent crude oil and lease condensate (light hydrocarbons recovered from natural gas at or near the wellhead).
Subsequent to serving out his term, he lived in Iran and the United States, and died at the age of 90, from Alzheimer, in Tehran, Iran.
Projections made at the time the Legacy Fund was established estimate that it will be worth between $75 and $105 billion by 2039; between $149 and $240 billion by 2050; and between $240 and $450 billion by 2060.
Alternatively, critics argue that the international monetary system, reliant on petrodollar recycling, exploits developing nations while advancing American imperialism.
The traditional significant differences in the setup and density of settlements, share of suburbs, use of public transport, and consumer behavior have been widening.
By 5 March 2015, as oil production outpaces oil demand by 1.5 million bpd, storage capacity globally is dwindling.
In 1999, the Equato-Guinean Government began attempting to meet IMF-imposed requirements, maintaining contact with IMF and the World Bank representatives.
Depleted gas or oil fields are the cheapest to commission, as they take advantage of existing wells, internal distribution systems, and pipeline connections.
Rystad reported that the average breakeven price for oil from the oil sands was US$83 in 2019, making it the most expensive to produce, compared to all other "significant oil producing regions" in the world.
Industrialized nations are dependent on oil, and efforts to restrict the supply of oil would have an adverse effect on the economies of oil producers.
Panic buying Trigger Multiple sources have stated that an industry task force meeting took place on Zoom on 16 September where BP fuel stock levels were discussed.
SOFAZ invests internationally and holds assets in more than 60 countries, including listed securities as well as infrastructure and renewable energy projects.
In response, US President Joe Biden vowed "consequences" and said the US government would "re-evaluate" the longstanding U.S.
Dedicated servers The game features dedicated servers similar to Battlefield 2: Modern Combat, as well as client-side hosting found in the majority of Live-enabled Xbox 360 games.
In a series of speeches in December 1973, the Prime Minister Edward Heath warned that because of the oil shock that the British economy was going into recession and the British people should expect economic austerity.
Though oil production can be slowed, it can not be stopped completely, and even the lowest possible production level resulted in greater supply than demand.
The Stone Age came to an end, not because we had a lack of stones, and the oil age will come to an end not because we have a lack of oil.
In 2019, the Financial Times reported that the plans to float state-owned oil beneficiary Saudi Aramco were stranded between the company's attachment to the oil ministry and the desire to meet international standards.
Indonesia has already shifted from oil exporter to oil importer while Egypt is hovering on the brink.
Since the Philippines imports 98% of its oil from the Middle East, the closure endangers the country's energy supply, which is heavily dependent on oil.
In the cartoons, the long hooked Semitic noses that had traditionally been featured in anti-Jewish cartoons were applied to the Arab sheiks as a way to illustrate their supposed greed.
He did not make a distinction between "conventional" and "non-conventional" oil produced by fracturing, aka tight oil, which has continued further growth in oil production.
The game ends after the final mission entitled "History Repeats," upon bringing the Russian military to a collapse and cutting the nation off from the rest of the world by destroying a satellite uplink.
The glut began in the early 1980s as a result of slowed economic activity in industrial countries due to the crises of the 1970s, especially in 1973 and 1979, and the energy conservation (including replacing oil in some applications with other fuels) spurred by high fuel prices.
The action was commenced by the company's own lawyers over a debt of A$70,000 and joined by mining magnate Ross Graham, who had lent Johnston A$25 million.
North Carolina governor Pat McCrory, Tennessee governor Bill Haslam and South Carolina governor Nikki Haley all declared states of emergency, allowing fuel tankers to work longer hours to maintain the availability of gasoline.
After the Shah's return to Iran, negotiations between the National Oil Company and representatives of the consortium to prepare a new contract began in early 1973.
South Korea South Korea is the third largest importer of LNG and is building its 6th LNG strategic natural gas reserve facility.
In the same year, GasBuddy was involved in a lawsuit with Reveal Mobile, a location-based marketing company, over the sale of user location data.
Because proven reserves include oil recoverable under current economic conditions, nations may see large increases in proven reserves when known, but previously uneconomic deposits become economic to develop.
2021: risQ In December 2021, ICE acquired risQ, a geospatial and climate data modeling start-up company, after announcing partnerships with the company to develop climate risk and ESG analytics models for municipal bond markets in January 2020 and mortgage-backed securities markets in March 2021.
Impact The 1986 oil price collapse benefited oil-consuming countries such as the United States and Japan, countries in Europe, and developing nations but represented a serious loss in revenue for oil-producing countries in Northern Europe, the Soviet Union, and OPEC.
The government announced in 2012 that it would reassess exactly how much iron ore the Belinga site contains before awarding the concession to a mining company, most likely to be China's CMEC, which temporarily secured the rights to the ore in 2007.
The largest oil field in the world, Saudi Arabia's Ghawar field, produces light crude oils ranging from 33° API (860 kg/m3) to 40° API (825 kg/m3) U.S.
A 2007 study found that as of May 2004, there was roughly 8 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of commercial gas storage capacity in the US, with about 4 Tcf needed to always remain in storage as base gas.
The differences sometimes result from different classes of oil included and sometimes result from different definitions of proven.
wrote, "Radiocarbon evidence rules out seawater bicarbonate as the carbon source for FTT reactions, suggesting that a mantle-derived inorganic carbon source is leached from the host rocks.
The next $30 million is allocated for grants and loans aimed at cutting carbon output in the energy sector.
However, monthly data can also provide a more up-to-date snapshot of current production trends, particularly for countries experiencing rapid changes in output, such as those expanding or winding down production.
Despite having substantial gas reserves in joint fields, many remain undeveloped due to lack of investment.
By October, some garage owners believed the remaining supply issues were no longer linked to panic buying.
Most gas storage is in depleted gas or oil fields, with the second largest storage capacity being in aquifers, and the smallest in salt caverns.
Between 2007 and 2008 the IEA changed its figures for projected rate of decline in world energy supply from 3.7% a year (2007) to a projected rate of decline of 6.7% a year (2008) leading to a peak in oil supplies in 2020.
Iraqi and Kuwaiti oil producers also announced price discounts to their buyers, though Iraq's discount was lower than that of Saudi Arabia's.
It further objected to the application of extraterritorial laws, regulations and economic sanctions within the sector against the GECF member states.
Amounts listed below, in billions of barrels, are the estimated ultimate recoverable petroleum resources (proved reserves plus cumulative production also abbreviated as URR), given historical production and current extraction technology.
The Olduvai Theory posits that industrial civilization, as it currently exists, will have a maximum duration of approximately one hundred years, beginning in 1930.
State of emergency On February 18, the Slovak government declared a national state of emergency in the oil sector, the first in the country's history.
The festival is a month-long commemoration of the liberation of Kuwait, and runs from 1 to 28 February.
While Kampong Rasau itself is small, it benefits from local amenities such as a primary school, multi-purpose hall, clinic, and mosque.
In 2008, the state overtook Wyoming and New Mexico; in 2009, it outproduced Louisiana and Oklahoma; in 2011 and 2012 it surpassed California and Alaska, respectively.
The dual crises condition have led to dire food shortages and 2025 Iranian protests and mass transportations sector labor strikes.
She studied at St George's School, Harpenden in England until July 1937, where she gained her school certificate and got the form prize in July 1938 before leaving to study in America.
For example, General Motors had some abandonment costs from shutting down the Pontiac and Saturn brands.
Tasked with border control, the IRGC maintains a monopoly on smuggling, costing Iranian companies billions of dollars each year.
For their part, Murchison and Richardson were known to have been major national political operatives and had close ties to President Dwight D.
Use One of the model's main practical applications has been to describe the resultant outcomes given the condition of a global shortage of fossil fuels.
Current production is for 2025, except when the year is specifically provided along with the production figure.
A field containing 500 million barrels or more ultimately recoverable reserves is a giant field, while a super giant contains 5 billion barrels or more recoverable reserves.
Given the above, we might expect that (1) increases and decreases in crude oil prices trigger appropriate changes downstream, and (2) resulting changes are symmetric in terms of absolute size / timing.
These Particles in the air can cause lung irritation and in certain situations, a visible haze either as a direct result of the emission or as a chemical reaction to other emissions already in the air.
According to Central Bank data, GDP grew on average only about 1.9% per year from 1979 to 2020, compared to 9.1% annually in 1960–1979 before the revolution.
For the consumer, the price of natural gas, gasoline (petrol) and diesel for cars and other vehicles rises.
After the Revolution, the composition of the middle class in Iran did not change significantly, but its size doubled from about 15% of the population in 1979 to more than 32% in 2000.
From 1974 through 1981, the total current account surplus for all members of OPEC amounted to US$450 billion, without scaling-up for the subsequent decades of inflation.
2007 Political riots occurring during the 2007 Burmese anti-government protests were sparked by rising energy prices.
government by operators who acquire leases on the federally owned Outer Continental Shelf in the Gulf of Mexico.
The crisis was a major factor in the long-run shift of Japan's economy away from oil-intensive industries.
Relationship to net energy gain EROI and Net energy (gain) measure the same quality of an energy source or sink in numerically different ways.
The Shah also sought to terminate the 1954 Consortium Agreement an effort which was finalized with the 1973 Sale and Purchase Agreement.
Capital flows Background Especially during the years 1974–1981 and 2005–2014, oil exporters amassed large surpluses of "petrodollars" from the sale of oil at historically high prices.
The law came into effect on 1 January 1976, as well as the nationalization of the oil industry with it, after which PDVSA began commercial operations.
Over the years aid was annually provided to Egypt, Syria, and Jordan, as well as the Palestine Liberation Organization.
When this was first brought about many including in the New Democratic Party and the Retail Gasoline Dealers Association of Nova Scotia wanted a system similar to Prince Edward Island for lower prices.
Oil shale reserves (perhaps 3 trillion barrels (4.8×1011 m3)) and coal reserves, both of which can be converted to liquid petroleum, are not included in this chart.
In October 1973, six OPEC member countries (Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Abu Dhabi, Qatar, Libya, and Algeria) declared an oil embargo on the United States and the Netherlands.
Iran's power grid is both fragile and costly to maintain, with frequent outages and a loss of about 13% of electricity during transmission.
It is often used in a cost-benefit analysis to determine if a marginal venture should be continued or if it is more financially beneficial to abandon the venture and plow the remaining money into something else in an attempt to recoup the losses.
The 1973 Sale and Purchase Agreement was a 20-year agreement pressured by the Shah of Iran on the oil consortium that nullified The Consortium Agreement of 1954 and provided the National Iranian Oil Company with complete control of Iranian petroleum, nationalizing the nation's oil reserves.
Duncan's formulation of the Olduvai theory is based on several key data points: Data on global energy production per capita.
Six states were affected (Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia), with Alabama, Tennessee, North Carolina and Georgia declaring states of emergency.
The organisational logic that underpins OPEC is that it is in the collective interest of its members to limit the world oil supply in order to reap higher prices.
The "Seneca effect" model is related to the "World3" model from the 1972 report The Limits to Growth, issued by the Club of Rome.
Shareholder structure Oman Oil Marketing Companies shares are held by Oman Oil Company (OOC) (49%) and the company is operated under one of OOC's main subsidiaries, the Oman Oil Facilities Development Company (see OOC article for additional details).
The company has also begun to diversify and expand their business model into retail and customer services.
Although there have been recent offshore finds, oil production is now declining from its peak of 370,000 barrels per day (59,000 m3/d) in 1997, and periods of low oil prices have had a negative impact on government revenues and the economy.
Every Friday, prices may go up or down or stay the same, depending on the market price over the past 7 days.
The Great American Finance System eventually reorganized itself as the General American Oil Company of Texas, which became an oil producer in its own right and, decades later, was purchased by Phillips Petroleum.
Prelude The AIOC was the United Kingdom's "single largest overseas asset" and a "source of national pride" in the British post-war era of Clement Attlee and Ernest Bevin.
To meet popular demands for cheaper food during the inflationary period just after the civil war, government created a new state corporation, the National Nigerian Supply Company (NNSC).
Zelenskyy argues that satellite views cannot show destroyed control panels or underground pipe damage, making them an insufficient tool for assessing the pipeline's true operational status.
A point to check is whether the volume of oil is measured before or after the gas comes out of solution, since the remaining oil volume will decrease when the gas comes out.
He then told the hostages that he and his comrades would leave the plane, after which they would all be free.
According to the report based on information from three Russian industry sources, 20% of Russia's refinery capacity was taken offline at the height of strikes between August and October, but this only resulted in a 6% drop in Russia's total refining volume.
Numbered terms The engineering term P90 refers to 90 percent engineering probability, is a commonly accepted specific definition by Society of Petroleum Engineers, it does not take into account anything except technical concerns.
On December 30, 2009, recognising advances in exploration and valuation technology, the SEC allowed 2P probable and 3P possible reserves to be reported, along with 1P proved reserves, though oil companies also have to verify the independence of third party consultants.
In February 1982, the Boston Globe reported that OPEC's production, which had previously peaked in 1977, was at its lowest level since 1969.
When oil is produced to surface temperature and pressure it is usual for some natural gas to come out of solution.
Current President Brice Clotaire Oligui Nguema advocated until mid 2025 for a free market economy system, from then to now, Oligui embraces economic nationalism, which shows in his support of nationalization.
Retail bonuses A Collector's Edition of the game was released in the UK, Australia, Denmark, and New Zealand.
OPEC Fund headquarters The OPEC Fund Headquarters (located in Vienna's first district, on the Ringstraße) was the residential palace of the Austrian Archduke Wilhelm Franz Karl.
Participating leaders Full members: Observer members: Special Guest: Final communique The final communique underscored the need for stronger cooperation, including the transfer of expertise and pricing mechanisms.
It examined the time frame for the occurrence of peak oil, the necessary mitigating actions, and the likely impacts based on the timeliness of those actions.
On returning to the plane, Carlos stood before Yamani and Amuzegar and expressed his regret at not being able to murder them.
He was examined in detail over various financial transactions, including family travel payments and transactions surrounding the purchase of his Mosman Park mansion and claimed that he was forced to buy the property by his close friend and occasional antagonist Warren Anderson.
Venezuela's economic crisis has been called "the worst economic collapse outside of war since World War II".
In October, BBC Verify and BBC Russian reported that Ukrainian drone attacks reached a record level of 14 refineries targeted in August, while eight had been targeted in September and 12 in August, and that 21 out of Russia's 38 large refineries had been hit since January 2025.
Also in that year, GasBuddy released a completely redesigned app, its first major redesign since its release in 2010.
The earlier basket consisted of seven crudes: Saharan Blend (from Algeria) Minas (from Indonesia) Isthmus (from Mexico, a non-OPEC country) Bonny Light (from Nigeria) Arab Light (from Saudi Arabia) Fateh (from Dubai, UAE) Tia Juana Light (from Venezuela) == References ==
On March 15, Zelenskyy issued a formal statement addressing the link between energy transit and military aid, explicitly labeling the pressure from European neighbors as "blackmail".
According to Cannon, the state income from oil revenue grew "from 51% of total income in 2000 to 56% 2006"; oil exports increased "from 77% in 1997 ...
Summary Energy descent refers to retraction of oil use after the peak oil availability or voluntary energy use reductions in response to the global climate crisis.
In January 2007 Angola became a member of OPEC, before leaving in December 2023, as they wanted to expand their oil production.
Following this warning, representatives of the Consortium member companies, fully aware of the stance of the National Iranian Oil Company on the terms and conditions to be revised, visited the Shah several times in the winter of 1972 in St.
Aftermath consists of thought experiments looking at what would happen to Earth if extremely distant events and changes occurred in the present.
In 2006, the rugby league team South Sydney Rabbitohs was bought by business partners Russell Crowe and Peter Holmes à Court.
The State Oil Fund of the Republic of Azerbaijan (Azerbaijani: Azərbaycan Respublikasının Dövlət Neft Fondu), also known by its abbreviation SOFAZ, is a sovereign wealth fund of Azerbaijan founded in December 1999.
The ACCO contains an agreed form of consent order that will be submitted to the FTC for acceptance and approval.
It models the decline in oil exports that result when an exporting nation experiences both a peak in oil production and an increase in domestic oil consumption.
The 3rd GECF summit was a biennial Gas Exporting Countries Forum summit, an international relations conference attended by the heads of state or heads of government of most member states of the GECF.
On April 2, Iranian foreign minister Abbas Araghchi assured his Philippine counterpart, Secretary Tess Lazaro, that Philippine vessels, energy shipments, and Filipino seafarers would be allowed safe and unhindered passage through the strait.
By moving it back and forth across the battlefield, the player may gain or lose weapons and equipment.
Gabon had a free market economy from the 1990s, other sources claim that Gabon had a mixed economic system with a heavy reliance on oil, combined with relatively weak centralized economic planning and government regulation.
He was also wrong in predicting that greater wealth would induce more leisure spent; in fact, the reverse trend seems to be true.
In the states of Texas and Pennsylvania, the statutory definition of a gas well is one where the GOR is greater than 100,000 ft3/bbl or 100 Kcf/bbl.
The refueled plane left for Tripoli, where there was trouble in acquiring another plane as had been planned.
OPEC and shale oil boom The unconventional tight oil (shale oil) boom in the USA starting in the early 2000s through 2010s (as well as increased production capacity in many other countries) greatly limited OPEC's ability to control oil prices.
The ratio, for discovery of fossil fuels in the United States, has declined steadily over the last century from about 1000:1 in 1919 to only 5:1 in the 2010s.
Critics have described projects funded by SOFAZ as useless, and noted that contracts have been awarded to companies owned by the ruling Aliyev family in Azerbaijan.
"Sustainable energy system with zero emissions of GHG for cities and countries." Energy and Buildings 98 (2015): 27-33.
Saudi Arabia is also limiting capacity expansion, but because of a self-imposed cap, unlike the other countries.
Despite the United Nations sanctions, Rhodesia was a major exporter of chrome, steel and tobacco with the United States exempting "strategical" Rhodesian products such as chrome from the sanctions.
However, Rear Admiral Roy Vincent Trinidad of the Armed Forces of the Philippines warned, "the Chinese Communist Party is not a reliable partner", citing the "difference in the way they speak and their actions on the ground".
The pipeline was shut down on September 16, and federal regulators began investigating the cause of the leak.
By 1975, western oil companies complained of the agreement and demanded renegotiation marking the first time in history that oil companies rather than the oil producing nations sought to negotiate an oil contract.
Restructuring of the refining sector The world refining capacity of the major oil companies in 1973 was 23.2 million barrels (3.69 million cubic metres) per day.
The BOE is used by oil and gas companies in their financial statements as a way of combining oil and natural gas reserves and production into a single measure, although this energy equivalence does not take into account the lower financial value of energy in the form of gas.
The two discussed "issues in bilateral relations, including atomic energy, oil and gas, and military-technical cooperation," according to his Putin's foreign policy aide, Yuri Ushakov.
Similarly, Venezuela's proven reserves jumped in the late 2000s when the heavy oil of the Orinoco Belt was judged economic.
But as domestic consumption in the UK has remained essentially unchanged for the last 20 years, their rising import levels essentially match their falling production levels.
Announced in December 2017, it was claimed to be backed by the country's oil and mineral reserves, and it was intended to supplement Venezuela's plummeting bolívar fuerte currency, purportedly as a means of circumventing U.S.
Fish and shrimp are plentiful in territorial waters, and largescale commercial fishing has been undertaken locally and in the Indian Ocean.
Some historians even define the beginning of the world's Oil Age as the beginning of this era in Texas.
Ricardo believed that the only way for Britain to avoid the stationary state was to increase her volume of international trade: The country should export more industrial products and start importing cheap agricultural products from abroad in turn.
In 1960, Jablonski reported to oil company executives that there was a marked hostility toward the West and a growing outcry against "absentee landlordism" in the Middle East.
Other shareholders include Oman Cement Company, BankMuscat and Dhofar International Development and Investment Holding Company.
In September 2025, Reuters reported that Russia was seeing certain fuel grade shortages, with the reduced refinery runs caused by the drone attacks and high borrowing costs leading to private filling stations being unable to stockpile fuel according to retailers and traders.
Developing Unconventional Gas or DUG is a series of annual regional conferences of the unconventional oil industry.
She moved to Petroleum Week journal in 1954 and cemented her reputation, speaking on equal terms with oil ministers and company chairmen.
In June 2012, the OPEC Fund Member Countries issued a Ministerial Declaration on Energy Poverty and dedicated a revolving minimum sum of US$1 billion to finance the EPI.
The new dock operated on the submarine principle, submerging by filling large tubular ballast tanks with water to float vessels in, then using compressed air to force the water out and create a dry dock for repairs.
Table of percentages The following percentages are prescribed by the Internal Revenue Code, section 613(b).
The country is the fifth largest oil producing nation in Africa, which has helped drive its strong growth in the later 20th century.
Growth is almost entirely driven by rising oil production which surpassed 1.4 million barrels per day (220×10^3 m3/d) in late-2005 and which is expected to grow to 2 million barrels per day (320×10^3 m3/d) by 2007.
Members of Parliament Lucy Allan and Philip Dunne identified the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic as a cause.
External shocks to the system (i.e., sudden changes to downstream or upstream prices) should trigger short- and long-run adjustments toward this equilibrium, as rational economic agents price their goods to maximize their constant utility function.
The basic premise of energy descent in this latter context is that a simple replacement of fossil fuels with renewable and cleaner energy sources will not be feasible in the time frame required by an effective response to the global climate crisis.
The hostage crisis came to an end, in Algiers, Algeria after several days, multiple flights to several countries, payment of $60 million, by Iran and Saudi Arabia, all mediated personally by then Algerian President Houari Boumédièan.
The barrel of oil equivalent (BOE) is a unit of energy based on the approximate energy released by burning one barrel (42 US gallons, 35 imp gal or about 159 litres) of crude oil.
In 2015, University of British Columbia Professor Werner Antweiler predicted that if the share of oil and gas exports increases further, the link between oil prices and the exchange rate may become even stronger.
Typically, natural gas is used, either directly combusted for process heat or used to power an electricity-generating turbine, which then uses electrical heating elements to heat the underground layers of shale to produce oil from the kerogen.
Players who ordered Frontlines from online retailer Amazon.com were given a limited-edition collector's tin.
Duncan identified 1979 as the peak year for per capita energy consumption and, consequently, the peak of civilization.
This is a list of countries by oil extraction (i.e., petroleum production), based on data compiled from the U.S.
However, "in reality it was a handful of people in an industrial estate in Perth", who were conducting a complex of fraudulent operations.
In 2022, the International Energy Agency (IEA) announced that total worldwide oil consumption would rise by 2% year over year compared to 2021 despite the COVID-19 pandemic.
The aviation business has the largest market share at Muscat International Airport and is geared up to cater for the proposed expansion over the next few years.
The presence of these chemicals in crude oil is a result of the inclusion of biological material in the oil; these chemicals are released by kerogen during the production of hydrocarbon oils, as these are chemicals highly resistant to degradation and plausible chemical paths have been studied.
petrodollar as a main currency in crude oil transactions, whose hegemony has led the market since the dollar standard was first established in 1971, replacing the gold standard and giving the United States the power to manage most of the world's currency supply (around ~60%).
Left-wing criticism Some libertarians, anarchists, and socialists criticize peak oil and similar theories as exaggerations or fabrications that serve economic speculation.
See also International crisis National Front (Iran) Timeline of the Abadan Crisis British occupation of Bushehr Nissho Maru Incident == Notes ==
As a result, large quantities of gasoline and diesel are illicitly exported, leaving the domestic market with insufficient supplies.
Bloomberg warned that the world economy, which was already experiencing an inflationary "shock", would worsen with oil priced at $100 in February 2022.
This is a chart of trend of nominal gross domestic product of Angola at market prices using International Monetary Fund data; figures are in millions of units.
The Venezuelan economy contracted and inflation levels (consumer price inflation) rose, remaining between 6 and 12% from 1982 to 1986.
1975: Hostage siege On 21 December 1975, Saudi Arabia's Ahmed Zaki Yamani, Iran's Jamshid Amuzegar, and the other OPEC oil ministers were taken hostage at their semi-annual conference in Vienna, Austria.
US oil production The charts below gives an example of the application of the Hubbert Linearization technique in the case of the US Lower-48 oil production.
Planning and preparing for the peak oil energy descent period has been recently promoted by David Holmgren, Rob Hopkins of the Transition Towns movement, and Richard Heinberg in the 2004 book Power down.
Air currents vital for the distribution of solar heat across the planet whirl towards the poles, while the atmosphere starts to thin at the equator, and people migrate to more northerly and southerly cities to keep up with denser air.
Many OPEC members, such as Venezuela, Algeria, Libya, Iraq, Ecuador and Nigeria, have had internal crises spawned or worsened by the collapse in oil revenues.
Many countries with highly developed economies are dependent on food imports (for example, the United Kingdom produced just under half of domestic food consumption as of 2021), meaning a disruption in trade due to peak oil would exacerbate food insecurity.
At the time, he also founded and served as the first head of the "Iran-Japan-Korea Economic and Energy Council." Subsequent to his mission to Tokyo, he was appointed as the "Chief of OPEC Affairs" at NIOC's headquarters in Tehran, Iran, a position he held until the Iranian revolution in 1979.
The EGDP-01 platform was put in the field and the gases would then be carried by pipelines to the Brunei LNG plant, via South West Ampa gas field.
In 2004, they filed as a for-profit corporation in Minnesota under the name GasBuddy Organization Inc.
2019 California energy crisis 2020s 2021 Texas power crisis 2021 United Kingdom natural gas supplier crisis and 2021 United Kingdom fuel supply crisis 2021 global energy crisis.
After 2015, Saudi Arabia embarked on several initiatives, including Vision 2030, aimed at reducing its dependency on oil by investing in other sectors such as tourism, entertainment, and technology.
The British company, Incat, has an ongoing project with the government to renovate and expand Luba, the country's third-largest port which is located on Bioko Island.
OPEC has often attempted to keep the price of the OPEC Basket between upper and lower limits, by increasing and decreasing production.
Whilst flow was now at optimal rates, Colonial claimed it would be "several days" before processed fuel reached and replenished affected areas.
However, despite the economic growth and improving infrastructure, the country has been ranked only 138th out of 188 countries on the United Nations Human Development Index in 2015 and despite its impressive GNI figure, it is still plagued by extreme poverty.
According to media reports, Ukraine carried out over a dozen drone attacks on Russian oil infrastructure between 2 and 24 August, the majority of them striking facilities in Ryazan Oblast and Volgograd Oblast in southwestern Russia.
Bankers also use hedge funds to more "safely increase leverage to smaller oil and gas companies." However, when not properly used, "derivatives can multiply losses" particularly in North America where investors are more comfortable with higher levels of risk than in other countries.
During the EU summit in Brussels on March 19, Fico broke consensus by refusing to sign the European Council’s joint conclusions regarding Ukraine.
The cost of a routine abandonment of a typical well in the United States is about $5,000 (~Texas average cost in year 2000).
Asymmetric price transmission (sometimes abbreviated as APT and informally called "rockets and feathers", also known as asymmetric cost pass-through) refers to a pricing phenomenon occurring when downstream prices react in a different manner to upstream price changes.
Energy descent is a process whereby a society either voluntarily or involuntarily reduces its total energy consumption.
The OPEC Basket, including a mix of light and heavy crude oil products, is heavier than both Brent crude oil, and West Texas Intermediate crude oil.
In 2009, GasBuddy launched OpenStore, a platform that allows convenience stores to build and manage their own mobile apps.
Some studies (see below) include in their analysis that photovoltaic cells produce electricity, while the invested energy may be lower grade primary energy.
The neighbouring ASEAN Bridge, which intends to ease cross-border traffic and promote economic growth, supports Kampong Rasau's prospective development as a border town in late 2016.
The figures do not include biofuels, processing gain (the increase in liquid volume that occurs during the refining process), or natural gas liquids (NGLs; hydrocarbons separated from natural gas in processing plants).
Joint development, according to Carpio, "means China owns the oil and gas, but out of friendship with other countries, it will allow other countries to participate in developing the oil or gas field".
In 2020, British Petroleum (BP) claimed that the world had hit peak oil demand, predicting that oil demand would never recover to pre-pandemic levels due to increased proliferation of electric vehicles and stronger action on climate change.
By September 17, the affected regions began experiencing gas shortages due to the leak and panic buying.
Before House Bill 1379, the first $150 million in Legacy Fund earnings are spent on infrastructure bonds and funding the state employee retirement system.
Oxygen levels shoot back up after the water molecules are split into hydrogen and oxygen due to the sun's increased ultraviolet radiation, and the lighter hydrogen escapes to space.
As stated by Ott et al., surrounding plant and animal populations also take a toll from oil extraction, as it can lead to land fragmentation and overall disruption of food chains.
East Asia East Asia natural gas commodities tracker is the PLATTS index, and reached as high as $70 per million British thermal units in 2022 during the Russian invasion of Ukraine during the Second Cold War.
price In the United States, the price of the front month light sweet crude oil futures contract, traded on the NYMEX commodity exchange (symbol CL), is widely reported as a proxy for the cost of imported crude oil.
Since 2016, natural gas has accounted for about 70% of total energy consumption, with its share steadily increasing by 10 percentage points since 2010.
Astronauts Shannon Walker (member of the ISS Expedition 64) conducted the experiment on behalf of the students.
Production rose by 30% in 2006 and Endiama, the national diamond company of Angola, expects production to increase by 8% in 2007 to 10 million carats annually.
With revenues booming from oil exports, the government has started to implement ambitious development programs to build roads and other basic infrastructure for the nation.
Egret oil field, also known as Egret Field, is a complex oil and gas field in the South China Sea and 45 km north-west of Seria, Belait District, Brunei.
Though world oil production faltered in 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic causing significant disruptions in the oil markets, production in 2023 reached a new high of 101.73 million barrels per day in 2023.
The local plan identifies unbalanced development between the east and west sides of the Belait River and stresses the need to research the ecological impact on forest swamp areas and explore the potential of the Belait River as an internal port to support economic activities in the region.
Statute of the State Oil Fund was approved by the Decree of the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan No.
It stopped at the depth of 6,800 metres (22,300 ft) due to drilling problems, after private investors spent $40 million.
The value is necessarily approximate as various grades of oil and gas have slightly different heating values.
History In the spring of 2004, some consumers and an association representing some retailers (the Retail Gasoline Dealers Association of Nova Scotia) complained about the rising price of gasoline and diesel fuel, and the closure of rural gas stations due to low volumes and low margins.
However, well into the 21st century, several independent researchers have confirmed that world economic trends so far do indeed match up to the original 'standard run' projections made by the Meadows team, indicating that a global collapse may still loom large in the not too distant future.
On Saudi Arabia Saudi Aramco announced a cut in capital expenditures from $35–40 billion planned to $25–30 billion.
A number of aid programs sponsored by the World Bank and the IMF have been cut off since 1993 because of corruption and mismanagement.
This came after President Donald Trump cancelled all meetings with Iranian officials and pledged support to protesters of anti-government demonstrations in Iran.
September 2008: 630,000 barrels (100,000 m3) lent to Citgo, Placid Refining, and Marathon Oil due to disruptions from Hurricane Gustav.
According to varied energy prices and energy intensity across nations and industries, various countries have different percentages of businesses that view energy costs as a key obstacle, ranging from 24% in Finland to 81% in Greece for example.
On January 2, 2009, after a sharp decline in fuel prices, DOE said that it would begin buying approximately 12,000,000 barrels (1,900,000 m3) of crude oil to fill the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, replenishing supplies that were sold after hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005.
"Oil Extraction, Economic Growth, and Oil Price Dynamics." BioPhysical Economics and Resource Quality 2.1 (2017): 1.
Contributions to the fund must include "[t]hirty percent of total revenue derived from taxes on oil and gas production or extraction." The fund was established by ballot initiative in 2010.
The facility serves as a critical strategic hub for the Druzhba pipeline network, receiving and mixing crude oil from Western Siberia and the Volga region before exporting it to Central and Eastern Europe.
Trayport provides a trading technology platform that serves brokers, exchanges, clearing houses and trading participants, primarily in the European utility markets.
The Phase 1 project was planned to be completed by August 2003 (at the cost of US$ 22 million), while Phase 2 was predicted to be in 2006, with the development probably costing US$ 79 million.
Although the jobs created by the roughly two million annual Hajj pilgrims do not last long, they employ more people than the oil industry—40,000 temporary jobs (butchers, barbers, coach drivers, etc.)—and generates US$2–3 billion in revenue.
Cost depletion With this method the original investment is effectively amortized over the productive life of the asset, starting with the original capital investment, the annual percentage being the percentage of the reserves at the beginning of the year that are sold in the course of the year.
Petroleum exchanges and loans Note: Loans are made on a case-by-case basis to alleviate supply disruptions.
MOPS (short for the Mean of Platts Singapore) is the average of a set of Singapore-based oil product price assessments published by Platts, a global energy, petrochemicals, metals and agriculture information provider and a division of S&P Global.
This sentiment led to a series of antitrust lawsuits by the state Attorney General starting in 1906.
Thus, we can derive the Hubbert curve parameters: The growth parameter k is the intercept of the vertical axis.
News that the Royal Navy was intercepting tankers carrying Iranian oil scared off other tankers and effectively shut down oil exports from Iran.
Iran spent 22.5% of its 2003 national budget on social welfare programs of which more than 50% covered pension costs.
On April 11, Energy Secretary Sharon Garin announced the arrival of about 329,000 barrels of diesel from Malaysia, part of a 900,000-barrel shipment procured by PNOCEC that was scheduled for delivery in three batches in April.
MOPS is an acronym that stands for the Mean of Platts Singapore, and typically refers to any contract mechanism that derives its value by referencing the average of a set of Singapore-based oil price assessments published by Platts.
We can rewrite (1) as the following: The above relation is a line equation in the P/Q versus Q plane.
On 4 October, the Petrol Retailers Association said some forecourts in South East England had been without fuel for a week.
Moreover, it was predicted that the oil field would produce an estimated of 30 million barrels for 15–20 years.
Gas initially in place (GIIP) or original gas in place (OGIP) denote the total estimated quantity (volume) of natural gas contained in a "subsurface" asset prior to extraction (production).
The most commonly referenced benchmark oil from Europe is Brent Crude, which is 38.06° API (835 kg/m3).
In 2016, the Saudi government launched its Saudi Vision 2030 program to reduce its dependency on oil and diversify its economic resources.
Firzli, writing in a Saudi Arabian journal World Pensions Forum, warned that the escalating oversupply could have durably negative economic consequences for all Gulf Cooperation Council member states.
The legacy fund was established to ensure that the financial windfall gained from the Bakken Oil Boom would benefit the state in the long-run, even if oil prices collapse.
Petroyuan is a form of the official Chinese currency, the yuan intended at least initially for oil trading.
In this way, Canada's proven reserves increased suddenly in 2003 when the oil sands of Alberta were seen to be economically viable.
Initiating a mitigation crash program 10 years before world oil peaking helps considerably but still leaves a liquid fuels shortfall roughly a decade after the time that oil would have peaked.
Since 2008, the OPEC Fund has worked tirelessly to push energy poverty to the top of the international agenda and was responsible for the universal acceptance of energy poverty eradication as the “missing” Millennium Development Goal.
Logit transform David Rutledge applied the logit transform for the analysis of coal production data, which often has a worse signal-to-noise ratio than the production data for hydrocarbons.
It is possible under this scheme for the total deductibles (or indeed the annual deductible) to exceed the original capital investment.
A study from the Geologic Survey of Finland found that 90% of the supply chain of all industrially manufactured products depend on oil derived services or oil derived products, and World Bank data shows over 30% of global GDP accounted for by exports of goods and services.
The most prominent in North America is West Texas Intermediate which has an API gravity of 39.6° API (827 kg/m3).
Unlike the symmetrical Hubbert curve fossil fuel model, the Seneca cliff model shows material asymmetry, where the global rate of decline in fossil fuel production is far steeper than forecasted by the Hubbert curve.
The OPEC Reference Basket (ORB), also referred to as the OPEC Basket, is a weighted average of prices for petroleum blends produced by OPEC members.
Early life and education Jablonski was the daughter of Polish petroleum geologist Eugene Jablonski, and was immersed in the oil industry throughout her childhood.
dollar demand by only a tiny fraction, and the dollar's overall status as the major international reserve currency has relatively limited tangible benefit to the United States economy as well as some drawbacks.
In order to supply the Brunei LNG plant in Lumut, a US$79 million development of the Egret field was planned by the BSP in November 2001 and 2002.
with the objective of developing an Internet-based platform to provide a more transparent and efficient market structure for over-the-counter energy commodity trading.
They also claimed that the idea and funding came from an Arab president, widely thought to be Libya's Muammar al-Gaddafi.
Although events such as these can temporarily disrupt oil supplies and elevate prices, the frequent disputes and instabilities tend to limit OPEC's long-term cohesion and effectiveness.
Several notable key note speakers have visited DUG conferences including Leon Panetta at Pittsburgh's in 2014, T.
The EPI was launched by King Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz of Saudi Arabia in June 2008 and subsequently adopted by the OPEC Fund as its flagship program.
That same year, Saudi Arabia established the Supreme Economic Council to formulate and better coordinate economic development policies to accelerate institutional and industrial reforms.
However, a lack of refining capacity would only seem to explain high gasoline prices, not high crude oil prices.
Proposals for repeal, and reduction in size and applicability Several attempts have been advanced to repeal the allowance tax loophole.
Abiotic supporters argue that these metals are common in Earth's mantle, but relatively high contents of nickel, vanadium, lead and arsenic can be usually found in almost all marine sediments.
World Without Oil This episode hypothesizes a total oil depletion scenario, where almost all oil on Earth simply vanishes in one night, leaving behind only oil that has already been extracted, and products refined from oil, such as gasoline and diesel.
However, most of the soil which was suitable for farming in south central Kuwait was destroyed when Iraqi troops set fire to oil wells in the area and created vast "oil lakes".
Through persistent, joyous exposure to Torah study and observance of mitzvot, the nefesh habehamit can be trained to desire spiritual and divine pleasures.
and the rest of creation (experience) individually pleasure or displeasure, pain, great terror, and unhappiness" (1.1.6).
Respiration is the process by which breathing helps to cool and moderate the inner vital heat (thermotēta psychikēs) held in the heart.
Epiphenomenalism posits that physical events generate mental events, but mental events themselves lack causal power—they cannot influence physical events or even other mental phenomena.
After this he got up from the cricket and pronounced the ease and rest of the soul departed, for which he would pawn his own soul.
"De la migrance ä l'errance ou les Italiens entre «La Mort du Grand Pan» et «La Procession des Morts»".
Such past impressions form a kind of sheath between the Over-soul and its true identity, as they give rise to the tendency of identification with the gross differentiated body.
Joseph Smith, founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, believed that "there is no such thing as immaterial matter.
Lapis manalis When a new town was founded, a round hole would be dug and a stone called a lapis manalis would be placed in the foundations, representing a gate to the underworld.
Christian philosophy In his Introduction to the 1964 book Meditations, the Anglican priest Maxwell Staniforth discussed the profound impact of Stoicism on Christianity.
Peter Lombard's creando infundit animas Deus et infundendo creat ("in creating, God pours in the soul, and in pouring, He creates") was an accepted formula.
The kind of mental activity conducted in the Phren involves what 20th and 21 Century Western thinkers consider both feeling and thinking; scholars have remarked that Ancient Greeks located this activity in the torso as opposed to the head.
He saw all attainment of knowledge not as acquiring new information, but as remembering previously known information.
On the other hand, some Jews object to using the phrase for Jews, considering it to reflect a Christian perspective.
He relates Socrates' ideas about Thymos and desire to how people want to be recognized within their government.
History and cosmology Jon Atack, whose book A Piece of Blue Sky details how he reached Operating Thetan level V before leaving Scientology, describes Hubbard's doctrines about thetans: "Thetans are all-knowing beings, and became bored because there were no surprises.
So that if ever we find these contradictions in the functions of the mind we shall know that it was not the same thing functioning but a plurality." (This is an example of Plato's principle of non-contradiction).
See also Scales of justice (symbol) Libra Particular judgment Punishment of the Grave References Further reading Media related to Weighing of souls at Wikimedia Commons Brandon, S.
Believing themselves to be travelling into other realms, shamans either descend into an underworld (cf.
In Nazi ideology, the race-soul, race soul or racial soul (German: Rassenseele) is a mystical racial psyche greater than any individual member of the German race.
The pneuma in its most rarefied and fiery form serves as the animal soul (psychê); it pervades the organism, governs its movements, and endows it with powers of perception and reproduction.
In the same radio programme, Presbyterian Ken Newell disagreed that people are praying for the dead when they use the phrase.
(In Sanskrit the word param means "supreme" and atman means "soul"; thus Paramatman literally means "Supreme-Soul".) The term is used frequently in discussion of Eastern metaphysics and has also entered western vernacular.
The breakthrough to the divinity at the ground of the soul Eckhart posits that the goal should not be to stop at the concept of God, but rather to "break through" to the Godhead.
Before a person could be judged by the gods, they had to be "awakened" through a series of funerary rites designed to reanimate their mummified remains in the afterlife.
Contrary to Pelagius' view of human nature, Augustine of Hippo taught that because of original sin, the human nature we receive at birth has been "wounded, hurt, damaged, destroyed" and that, therefore, man is incapable of doing or desiring good apart from the sovereignty of grace.
In Ireland on 16 March 1831 Baron Pennefather in Limerick stated that pregnancy was not alone sufficient for a delay but there had to be quickening.
See also References External links "The Over-Soul" at Google Books "The Over-Soul" at Emerson Central.
Accordingly, the Hebrew word נֶ֫פֶשׁ‎ (nephesh)—though translated as "soul" in some older English-language Bibles—actually has a meaning closer to "living being".
As Plotinus himself put it:Therefore ‘it cannot be said’ or ‘written’, he says [Plato, Letter 7, 341c], but we speak and write, sending on to it and wakening from words [or explanations] towards contemplation, as if showing the way to him who wishes to see something.
By the spirit Adam knows right from wrong and guidance from error and he camouflages and learns and manages all of his affairs.
Jainism Jains practise pratikraman (Sanskrit "introspection"), a process of repentance of wrongdoings during their daily life, and remind themselves to refrain from doing so again.
The air is full of an innumerable multitude of peoples [Sylphs] of human figure, a little proud in appearance, but docile indeed: great lovers of the sciences, subtle, officious to the wise, and enemies of the foolish and ignorant.
See also Druze Gilgul Saṃsāra Yazidis Yaʽfuriyya Shia Zalmoxis References External links The Columbia Encyclopedia: Transmigration of souls or Metempsychosis Sturt, Henry (1911).
Immanuel Kant added that, if they are understood too narrowly, introspective experiments are impossible.
Whatever is already a complete individual substance cannot enter into composition with another to form a new substantial whole without undergoing corruption.
Relation to human anatomy The Tanya states that the nefesh ha'elokit resides primarily in the brain, from which it spreads throughout the body.
Any system that creates political inequality is necessarily feeding the megalothymia of some members while denying it to others.
1650–1716) includes the following description of the sin-eating ritual in his Letter on Leland's Collectanea, i.
Fearing their power, Zeus split them in half, condemning each to spend their lives searching for its missing counterpart (the term used by Plato is τὸ ἕτερον ἥμισυ, tó héteros ímisy, lit.
As it occurs in the Faerie Queene of Spenser, "heavenly light" is associated with knights in full armour, and with the purity of the human soul, picking up on Christian mysticism's view of the soul illuminating the body.
However, whether the rational soul is infused into the organism at conception, as the modern opinion holds, or some weeks subsequently, as medieval scholastics supposed, is an open question to some theologians.
The natural spirit originated from the food and the drink, the origin of the vital spirit was from the atmospheric air .
The concept of an immaterial and immortal soul—distinct from the corporeal body—did not appear in Judaism before the Babylonian exile, instead developing as a result of interaction with Persian and Hellenistic philosophies.
"good thumos") to refer to a condition in which the soul lives calmly and steadily, being disturbed by no fear, superstition, or other passions.
It propounds a duality of five kinds, the most fundamental of which is that between jivas and Ishvara.
It mostly refers to a march of ghosts, phantoms or souls, sometimes commanded by a creature related to the Otherworld, the Underworld or the Afterlife.
Islam In Islam, all souls are believed to have been created in adult form before earthly life at the same time the God created the father of mankind, Adam.
Jivas are bound by maya, which hides their true self, which is characterized by eternal existence, consciousness and bliss.
In its highest form, pneuma constitutes the human soul (psychê), which is a fragment of the pneuma that is the soul of the Deity.
Influence of Jainism on Manichaeism Fynes (1996) argues that Jain ideas about the existence of plant souls were transmitted from Western Kshatrapa territories to Mesopotamia and then integrated into Manichaean beliefs.
Around 300 BC, Praxagoras discovered the distinction between the arteries and the veins, although close studies of vascular anatomy had been ongoing since at least Diogenes of Apollonia.
Ancient Greece In ancient Greece, the festival of Anthesteria was performed to honor and placate the dead, who were thought to walk freely among the streets.
Munslow may have revived the custom after the deaths of three of his children in a week 1870 due to scarlet fever.
In a scene of the Nihon Shoki, kami Ōnamuchi is described in conversation with his own saki-mitama and kushi-mitama.
While he did not explicitly develop a theory of the unconscious, nor include the unconscious as a central element of his psychology, he acknowledged the unconscious dimension of world spirit.
In his soteriological teachings, the soul needs to discard sensual pleasures for the sake of intellectual gratification through spiritual ascension.
According to Ruthenian folklore, Veles lived on a swamp in the centre of Nav, where he sat on a golden throne at the base of the Cosmic Tree, wielding a sword.
It defends Puritan concepts of theocracy and divine providence, in the tradition of the Solyma Nova (1649) of Samuel Gott.
In Bulgarian folklore there exists the character of 12 navias that sucked the blood out of women giving birth, whereas in the Ruthenian Primary Chronicle the navias are presented as a demonic personification of the 1092 plague in Polotsk.
With regard to the embryo in the mother's womb, science itself highlights its autonomy, its capacity for interaction with the mother, the coordination of biological processes, the continuity of development, the growing complexity of the organism.
The weighing of souls (Ancient Greek: psychostasia) is a religious motif in which a person's life is assessed by weighing their soul (or some other part of them) immediately before or after death in order to judge their fate.
While the body's perceptual faculties are deceptive, Plato also argues that the falsehoods that they communicate to the soul can be used to trigger or prompt recollection.
In contrast with various Greek philosophical views, the material body (like the soul) is not seen as inherently evil, but inherently good.
This spiritual matter is also called "intelligence" or the "light of truth." God the Father organized the "intelligence" to make personages or "spirit children," which includes Jesus Christ.
Cultural references In Miguel de Cervantes's Don Quixote the knight has been described as driven by a spirited thymos or anger when his sense of self-worth is denigrated.
For example, the jiva is described as eternal and indestructible in chapter 2, verse 20: न जायते म्रियते वा कदाचिन् नायं भूत्वा भविता वा न भूयः । अजो नित्यः शाश्वतोऽयं पुराणो न हन्यते हन्यमाने शरीरे "The soul is unborn and eternal, everlasting and primeval.
In popular culture Despite its rejection as scientific fact, MacDougall's experiment popularized the idea that the soul has weight, and specifically that it weighs 21 grams.
The main explanation of the mechanism of soul loss is that in order to preserve oneself in an intolerable situation, part of the soul leaves, as continuing to be in these conditions is so uncomfortable that it can lead to complete disintegration.
See also Fairy Classifications of fairies Restless ghost Wild Hunt Santa Compaña References === Bibliography ===
The same work He still does, not in creating what did not exist, but in multiplying what already existed.
In general, the idea of the unconscious spirit suggests that there are deeper aspects of our selves that are not readily accessible to conscious awareness, but which may hold important insights, wisdom, and creative potential.
The gladiatorial games, originally held at funerals, may have been instituted in the honor of the Manes.
Hinduism Some Hindus believe that personhood begins with the reincarnation that happens at conception.
They are scavenging, animalistic creatures that prey on souls and usually prefer to flee from Raziel unless cornered or in a group.
There are many reasons that have made this topic less controversial but the most important ones are the lack of scientific evidences, and the dispersion of ideas.
A Croatian storyteller provided a tale with the motif of the "procesija mrtvih" ("procession of the dead") in the 1970s.
"Thnetopsychism" – A contrasting phrase is thnetopsychism (from Greek thnetos [mortal] + psyche [soul, mind]).
Nekhen (Greek Hierakonpolis) was the Upper Egyptian centre of the worship of the god Horus, whose successors the Egyptian pharaohs were thought to be.
It cannot be matter because the soul is that in virtue of which things have life, and matter is only being in potency.
In Augustine of Hippo's Confessions (4.10), Augustine wrote that while he was a Manichaean, he believed that "a fig-tree wept when it was plucked, and the tree, its mother, shed milky tears".
They thought that logic was indispensable to medicine, and Galen tells us that the Pneumatic school would rather have betrayed their country than renounce their opinions.
They die and are uncomprehending during the time between death and Judgment Day resurrection, also known as the intermediate state.
Or, again, hell is an eternal state, wherein sinners, for the punishment of their sins, want all that good which they may desire for their content, and endure all kinds of evils which they may fear for their torment.
The idea of psychic memory was used by Neoplatonists to demonstrate the celestial and immaterial origins of the soul and to explain how memories of the world-soul could be recalled by everyday human beings.
Historical proponents of the mortality of the soul The mortality of the soul has had a number of advocates throughout the history of both Judaism and Christianity.
MacDougall specifically chose people who were suffering from conditions that caused physical exhaustion, as he needed the patients to remain still when they died to measure them accurately.
Court cases involving ghosts Near-death experiences and out-of-body experiences References External links Mary Roach's website Roach talks about Spook with Stephen Colbert on the Colbert Report
descent into the underworld), an ascent unto the upper world and interactions with other souls and spirits along these both ways (cf.
The Book of Documents used po 魄 as a graphic variant for po 霸 "dark aspect of the moon" – this character usually means ba 霸 "overlord; hegemon".
At the moment of bodily death, the soul is liberated for a short time before it is again taken captive in a different body.
This inborn spirit is used to explain desire (orexis), which is classified as the "cental origin (to meson), which moves by being itself moved." (703a5-6).
The disciples of Hippocrates explained the maintenance of vital heat to be the function of the breath within the organism.
Roman tombstones often included the letters D.M., which stood for Dis Manibus, literally "to the Manes", or figuratively, "to the spirits of the dead", an abbreviation that continued to appear even in Christian inscriptions.
The Phi Theta Kappa honor society took the letter theta for thumos, representing the "aspiration" that they seek in their potential members.
According to the teachings given by the Higher Spirits through various mediums collected and organized by Allan Kardec (1857), he affirms: Spirits temporarily assume a perishable material envelope, the destruction of which, by death, restores them to liberty.
The concept is taken to be of considerable antiquity, and is classified in Stith Thompson's Motif-Index of Folk-Literature as Motif E491, "Procession of the dead".
Anamnesis is the closest that human minds can come to experiencing the freedom of the soul before it is encumbered by matter.
Faculty psychology The secularisation of the Age of Enlightenment produced a faculty psychology of different but inherent mental powers such as intelligence or memory, distinct (as in Aristotelianism) from the acquired habits.
In 2022, the TV series Evil featured a fictional recreation of the experiment in the episode "The Demon of Death".
Professors Fabio Armand, Marie-Agnès Cathiard and Christian Abry suggest that "the procession of the dead", as described in Christian mediaeval literature, is a "remythification" of the Wild Hunt phenomenon.
For him, the possibility of understanding rests on the relationship between intellect and sense perception.
In the souls in which there are no images, forms or inclinations towards anything created, God dwells as in his own house; in the others, which are oriented towards worldly things, he dwells like a stranger in someone else's house.
Explanations of bipartite anthropology Advocates of bipartite theology may quote the Reformation theologian John Calvin in support of a bipartite view.
To remedy air in the lungs, the physician was advised to clear the lungs of as much air as possible using a bladder and hose.
Theta is associated with constructive qualities such as "reason, serenity, stability, happiness, cheerful emotion, persistence, and the other factors which man ordinarily considers desirable".
Despite its rejection within the scientific community, MacDougall's experiment popularized the concept that the soul has weight, and specifically that it weighs 21 grams.
Pe (Greek Buto) was a Lower Egyptian town, not known for its Horus worship, but Ra had awarded the town to Horus after his eye was injured in the struggle for the throne of Egypt.
While its primary inclination is to seek worldly, physical pleasures, the animal soul can be trained to primarily pursue spiritual pleasures with the guidance of the divine soul.
This happens in the imagination (Arabic mutakhayyila; Greek phantasia), a faculty of the mind already described by Aristotle, which al-Farabi described as serving the rational part of the soul (Arabic ʿaql; Greek nous).
It became ubiquitous on headstones in the 19th century, and is widely used today when mentioning someone's death.
These ghosts are usually referred to as ancestral spirits who can guide and protect their relatives and community.
Within Jewish mysticism and folklore, particularly in Kabbalistic traditions, protective practices were also used to ward off these malevolent spirits.
Therefore, if the converse is true, and one knows the attributes, properties and/or other descriptive markers of this thing, one should not need to seek it out at all.
Wallace Thompson, the secretary of the Evangelical Protestant Society, said on a BBC Radio Ulster programme that he would encourage Protestants to refrain from using the term "RIP".
Pneuma is necessary for life, and as in medical theory is involved with preserving the "vital heat," but some commentators think the Aristotelian pneuma is less precisely and thoroughly defined than that of the Stoics.
Thompson said that he regards "RIP" as a prayer for the dead, which he believes contradicts biblical doctrine.
The word order is variable because Latin syntactical relationships are indicated by the inflexional endings, not by word order.
...You blew it into me," then quoting a phrase of the Zohar that "one who blows, blows from within him." This is taken to mean, "from His innermost." Unique to Jews The Tanya also notes that this soul is unique to Jews alone.
Introspection is encouraged during the penitent season in the month of Elul in order to correct the year's sins through repentance, which in Judaism begins with recalling and recognizing them.
In the Middle kingdom a form of offering tray known as a soul house was developed to facilitate this.
The term is derived from ancient Greek philosophy, and has been recontextualized by modern philosophers such as Arthur Schopenhauer, Kurt Gödel, Mircea Eliade, and Magdalena Villaba; otherwise, the word "transmigration" is more appropriate.
The traditional Hebrew expression עליו השלום, literally 'may peace be upon him', is sometimes rendered in English as 'may he rest in peace'.
In this context, the term "Over-soul" is understood as the collective indivisible Soul, of which all individual souls or identities are included.
The example of Israel is given, which was brought out of the land of Egypt and house of bondage by sighing to God and weeping about its oppressive labors.
In the first, neoplatonic emanationism, not found in the original works of Aristotle, was combined with a naturalistic explanation of the human material intellect.
Perturbing, harming or killing any life form, including any human being, is considered a sin in Jainism, with negative karmic effects.
Frankfort, Kingship and the Gods, University of Chicago Press 1978 László Török, The Kingdom of Kush: Handbook of the Napatan-Meroitic Civilization, Brill 1997 George Hart, The Routledge Dictionary Of Egyptian Gods And Goddesses, Routledge 2005 == Footnotes ==
In a Raeto-Romance tale, a man sees a procession of the dead and the last person is the soul of someone about to die.
In his philosophy, von Hartmann developed the concept of the unconscious spirit, which he believed played a central role in human existence and the world at large.
Saint Augustine equates angels with uncreated light, born of the Word; he believes that demons have celestial bodies; he considers fauns to be monstrous children between women and devils.
See also 'Aql (rational faculty in Islamic philosophy) Jerry Fodor Phrenology Psychology Rational animal Thomism Trichotomy References External links Neuroscience and Thomas Aquinas
Depending on the region, Egyptians believed that Heqet or Meskhenet was the creator of each person's kꜣ, breathing it into them at the instant of their birth as the part of their soul that made them be alive.
This belief of pre-mortal existence, the manner in which mankind existed before entering mortality is an important church doctrine, and is believed to support the existence of separate and distinct personages as seen within their doctrine of the Godhead (Mormonism).
Judaism The expression "rest in peace" is "not commonly used in Jewish contexts", though some commentators say that it is "consistent with Jewish practice".
For example, phren is where Achilles considered his sadness about losing Briseis and his duty to join the Greeks against Troy.
According to his theory, this knowledge is always present within this area, but hidden and therefore unconscious; however, it can be brought to consciousness through thought.
The Souls of Pe and Nekhen, mentioned first in the Pyramid Texts, refer to the ancestors of the ancient Egyptian kings.
Its heat must be kindled (474b13) and in order to preserve (sōtērias) life, a cooling must take place (katapsyxis) (474b23).
The manuscript was not cited by Trendelenburg, Torstrik, Biehl, Apelt, and Ross in his critical editions of the treatise On the Soul.
The 1909 Catholic Encyclopedia states "The eschatological summary which speaks of the 'four last things' (death, judgment, heaven, and hell) is popular rather than scientific.
For Ernst Dammann, in addition to nature spirits, which consist of "a large number of protective spirits of houses, settlements, professions, and social classes", there are "animal spirits" (e.g.
Stevan Harrell concludes, "Almost every number from one to a dozen has at one time or another been proposed as the correct one." The most commonly believed numbers of "souls" in a person are one, two, three, and ten.
This retinue, called panchabhāya (from pancha 'five', and bhāya 'younger brother') manifest as "five or more spirits" riding on horses and dressed in white.
Fukuyama explains how Thymos relates to history with the example of anti-communism in relation to the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, and China.
History The word, "Astral" translates to "connected with or resembling the stars." It is considered the vehicle of the soul.
She is told to turn away from her former people and the gang of adulterers, to devote herself to her king and remember her father in heaven.
Plato and Aristotle had already laid the foundations of the doctrine of pneuma, for which, Aristotle was the first to describe the ways in which the pneuma is introduced into the body and the sanguineous system.
An angel forces it to leave its heavenly abode and enter the mother's womb, after which an angel again forces it to come out and be born.
In some cases, when the body dies, the souls that have been lost eventually re-combine in the afterlife such as the case among the Bukidnon.
Parable of the Harlot and the Prince The nefesh habehamit actually desires to be defeated, as explained by a Zoharic parable of a king (God) who desired to test the mettle of his son, the prince (the soul, whose true identity is the nefesh ha'elokit).
Soul sleep is present in certain Second Temple period pseudepigraphal works, later rabbinical works, and among medieval era rabbis such as Abraham Ibn Ezra (1092–1167), Maimonides (1135–1204), and Joseph Albo (1380–1444).
Use in various religions Irish Protestantism In 2017, members of the Orange Order in Northern Ireland called on Protestants to stop using the phrase "RIP" or "Rest in Peace".
The term itself, first used as an adjective in the 18th century, did not really appear in its present noun form until the 19th century.
In Shangqing Neidan "Internal Alchemy", Baldrian-Hussein says, the po plays a particularly somber role as it represents the passions that dominate the hun.
Just as one abandons one's old clothes and wears new ones, the jiva renounces its old body and acquires a new one.
All animals "possess an inborn spirit (pneuma sumphuton) and exercise their strength in virtue of it." (703a10).
Europe Continental Europe There are various myths of processions of the dead, most related to the Wild Hunt.
In Jainism Jains believe that plants have souls (jīva) that experience only one sense, which is touch.
Gallery See also Allhallowtide Eternal Rest From God We Came, From God We Return Honorifics for the dead in Judaism Maa Kheru Rest in power Sit tibi terra levis List of Latin phrases References External links Media related to Requiescat in pace at Wikimedia Commons
Symbolically, the Nav has also been described as a huge green plain—pasture, onto which Veles guides souls.
The Sluagh (Irish: [ˈsˠl̪ˠuə], Scottish Gaelic: [ˈs̪l̪ˠuəɣ]; Old Irish: slúag; English: 'host, army, crowd'), or Sluagh na marbh ('host of the dead'), were the hosts of the unforgiven dead in Irish and Scottish folklore.
The inborn pneuma is, likewise, tethered to the soul, or as he says here, tēn arche tēn psuchikēn, "the origin of the soul," the soul as the center of causality.
In the Phaedrus, Plato depicts logos as a charioteer driving the two horses eros and thumos (erotic love and spiritedness are to be guided by logos).
Scientologists believe that the thetan has been "embodied on many occasions", but they generally avoid the term "reincarnation".
Achilles, in the Iliad, cares for his own honour; he keeps gods and deities in his heart; "...the thunderous lord of Hera might grant you the winning of glory, you must not set your mind on fighting the Trojans, whose delight is in battle, without me.
The opposite term thnetopsychism has also been used; for example, Gordon Campbell (2008) identified John Milton as believing in the latter.
They claim that if 1 Thessalonians 5:23 proves that man is composed of three parts, then Mark 12:30 must prove that man is made of four parts since Jesus enumerates heart, soul, mind, and strength.
The believers with four spirits are the second in position and disbelievers and animals are last in the chain with three spirits.
Ka (vital essence) The kꜣ (ka), 𓂓, was the Egyptian concept of vital essence, which distinguishes the difference between a living and a dead person, with death occurring when the kꜣ left the body.
According to some scholars (namely Stanisław Urbańczyk, among others), this word was a general name for demons arising out of the souls of tragic and premature deaths, killers, warlocks, the murdered and the Drowned Dead.
Asia Nepal Professors Fabio Armand, Marie-Agnès Cathiard and Christian Abry state they have found an occurrence of the theme of the procession of the dead "in the rural areas outside the Kathmandu Valley of Central Nepal".
In order for people to exist in harmony, Fukuyama argues, isothymia rather than megalothymia must be used to satisfy the human need for recognition.
Problems emerge when other people do not recognize another's Thymos, and therefore do not provide the justice that it requires.
Thus “man was to all intents and purposes ‘de-spirited’.” However, this reduced man to an inanimate object, like a stone or tree, and severely undermined man’s humanity.
Raziel can easily weaken them into a transparent state in which he can devour them to replenish his own health.
See also Plant perception (physiology) Plant perception (paranormal) Plant rights Vegetative soul == References ==
Hell Luis de la Puente writes concerning The nature of hell: "Hell is a perpetual prison, full of fire and of innumerable and very terrible torments, to chastise perpetually such as die in mortal sin.
One critical question or a common subject raised by most philosophers is whether the soul is united or divided.
Etymology The Scottish Gaelic name Sluagh stems from the Old Irish slúag (≈ slóg), meaning 'host, army; crowd, assembly'.
The most well known form of the ceremony, where people's hearts are weighed on a scale against a feather, is found in the Book of the Dead during the New Kingdom (1580-1090 B.C.E).
Presocratics Pneuma, "air in motion, breath, wind", is equivalent in the material monism of Anaximenes to aer (ἀήρ, "air") as the element from which all else originated.
It is believed to have mysterious powers, to cause transformations and to be able to cure illnesses.
The "free soul" is said to leave the body and journey to the spirit world during trance-like states, sleep, delirium, death, and insanity.
Within the VR motion ride Battle for Eire at Busch Gardens Williamsburg, the Sluagh are the minions of the evil villain Balor in the ride's story.
They define a soulmate as a distinct soul with whom an individual has shared multiple lifetimes in different roles—including those of friend, colleague, or spouse—brought together for the purpose of mutual growth or a shared mission.
The text concludes by emphasizing God's mercy and His willingness to hear the prayers of those who truly repent.
16 For "who has known the mind of the Lord, that he should instruct Him?" But we have the mind of Christ.
The resurrection is where God raises the mortal body the spirit personage had lost in mortal death, and converts the mortal body from flesh, bone and blood, into immortal bodies of flesh and bone, then rejoins the two, never to be separated again.
Significantly, the term mitamashiro (御魂代; 'mitama representative') is a synonym of shintai, the object which in a Shinto shrine houses the enshrined kami.
Soul dualism, also called dualistic pluralism or multiple souls, is a range of beliefs that a person has two or more kinds of souls.
The earliest recorded use of the term soulmate in English appears in a letter by Samuel Taylor Coleridge dated 1822.
The poem, also known as the Infinitati Sacrum, consists of two parts, the "Epistle" and "The Progress of the Soule".
Earlier accounts of possession, such as that given by Josephus, were of demonic possession rather than that of ghosts.
(This shows to support the general belief of Christians that all humanity are all brothers and sisters.) See also Plan of salvation (Latter Day Saints) Spirit world (Latter Day Saints) == References ==
The upper world is supposed to be the abode of benevolent spirits and heavenly scenes, while the underworld consists of ancestral and malignant spirits as well as dark and gloomy places.
He brought forth a question: How could his soul and its images be formed along with his body, who, before he was created in the womb, is said to be known to God, and was sanctified by Him before his birth?
The term was also used in relation to the concept of ghosts and vampirism in the nineteenth century.
Rabbinic sources caution that a person who fails to cultivate good character (middot) may lose the merit of their destined partner to another who is more deserving.
Kongo In traditional Bakongo religion, every Kongo person has a "dual soul-mind," called mwèla-ngindu that allows them to exist in the physical world (Nseke) and the spiritual world of the ancestors (Mpémba).
With satirical reference to Swedenborg's Heaven and Hell, he titled this book the Marriage of Heaven and Hell.
The soul therefore descends, in order to create the "dwelling place in the nether realms" and fulfill the Divine Will.
In Empedocles' system, Phren is a general psychological agent to which moral blame and praise can be extended, that darts through the universe as effluences, steers and controls the cosmos in the process and is the measure of what is harmonious and what is fit to exist.
Alternative theological views of human composition include tripartite and unitary (or monistic) views.
In his treatise The Republic, and also with the chariot allegory in Phaedrus, Plato asserted that the three parts of the psyche also correspond to the three classes of society (viz.
They quote Hubbard as saying, "If you can get out of that, and through that, and wander around through the cities and find some girl who looks like she is going to get married or have a baby or something like that, you're all set.
He wrote that already "one of [his] predecessors" had interpreted the Scripture to teach pre-existence, which seems to be a reference to the Jewish philosopher Philo.
External links "The Dybbuk" by Ansky Jewish Heritage Online Magazine "Dybbuk – Spiritual Possession and Jewish Folklore" by Jeff Belanger, Ghostvillage.com "Dybbuk", Encyclopædia Britannica
One resides in the ancestral tablet erected to his memory, if the head of a family; another lurks in the coffin or the grave, and the third departs to the infernal regions to undergo its merited punishment.
Historical misconceptions American historiography of introspection, according to some authors, is dominated by three misconceptions.
When the phrase became conventional, the absence of a reference to the soul led people to suppose that it was the physical body that was enjoined to lie peacefully in the grave.
But at present it is not looked upon in quite so atrocious a light, though it remains a very heinous misdemeanor.
In other uses within the English language, it can be used to describe finality, in circumstances unrelated to death.
This form of the astral spirit, while sometimes considered to be harmful, fell into the Platonic definition as it was considered to be a remnant of the deceased in some form.
Further, Jaina traditions believe that there exist Abhavya (incapable), or a class of souls that can never attain moksha (liberation).
Practices Judaism In Jewish thought, the concept of a divinely ordained partner is expressed through the term bashert (Yiddish: “destined one”).
Expulsion In traditional Jewish communities, the concept of the dybbuk served as a socially acceptable way of expressing unacceptable urges, including sexual ones.
Cleanthes, wishing to give more explicit meaning to Zeno's 'creative fire', had been the first to hit upon the term pneuma, or 'spirit', to describe it.
Among the Tagbanwa, a person is said to have six souls - the "free soul" (which is regarded as the "true" soul) and five secondary souls with various functions.
-lu 'army'), whose original meaning may have been 'those serving the chief', by comparing with Balto-Slavic words that probably emerged from early linguistic contacts with Celtic speakers in Central-Eastern Europe: e.g.
If "Rest in peace" is used in an imperative mood, it would be "Requiesce in pace" (acronym R.I.P.) in the second person singular, or "Requiescite in pace" in the second person plural.
Overall, caring for one's self is essential to a long life for the souls, which in turn provide a long life to the body.
Etymology and inscriptions Manes may be derived from "an archaic adjective manus—good—which was the opposite of immanis (monstrous)".
Contemporary views Thymos and democracy: megalothymia and isothymia "Megalothymia" refers to the need to be recognized as superior to others, while "isothymia" is the need to be recognized as merely equal to others.
This likeness (shape and form) apparently gave rise to the phrase and meaning of, "like father like son," which means the son is in the likeness of the father, which provides meaning to the claim that humanity was made in the likeness of God.
Cognates in other Indo-European languages include Latvian nāve ("death"), Lithuanian nõvis ("death"), Old Prussian nowis ("body, flesh"), Old East Slavic навь (navʹ) ("corpse, dead body") and Gothic 𐌽𐌰𐌿𐍃 (naus, "dead body, corpse").
After death, a guilty soul would be re-embodied first in a woman (in accordance with Plato's belief that women occupied a lower level of the natural scale), and then in an animal species, descending from quadrupeds down to snakes and fish.
Overview According to Carlo Ginzburg, the procession of the dead, as described by Orderic Vitalis, comprised a march of sinners and damned people, being punished for their wrongdoings in life.
Pacific Ocean Islands Hawai'i The Nightmarchers of Hawaiian mythology are also considered to be a version of the "procession of the dead".
Man's nous, word and spirit are not hypostases or individual existences or realities, but activities or energies of the soul—whereas in the case with God or the Persons of the Holy Trinity, each are indeed hypostases.
Such is being divided from something, even two rather than one, both parents souls being that powerful.
A sin-eater is a person who consumes a ritual meal in order to spiritually take on the sins of a deceased person.
When a Homeric hero is under emotional stress, he may externalize his thumos and converse with or scold it.
Thus, the termination of a pregnancy, even at the earliest possible stage, without medical justification is not allowed (even for social or economic reasons), as stated in the Glorious Qur’an: “...do not Kill your children for fear of want: We shall provide sustenance for them as well as for you.
In Wales and the Welsh Marches The term "sin-eater" appears to derive from Welsh culture and is most often associated with Wales itself and in the English counties bordering Wales.
Regarded as an unsuccessful imitation of the Argenis of John Barclay, from four decades earlier, it has also been thought a possible source of inspiration for the Pilgrim's Progress (1678) of John Bunyan.
Although they would sometimes rescue humans from dangerous rock clefts, they were generally portrayed as dangerous to mortals.
Ancient Egyptian religion In Egypt, this concept of a judgement after life to determine the fate of the living is first seen in the Old Kingdom around 2800 B.C.E.
Pneuma (Ancient Greek: πνεῦμα, romanized: pneûma) is an ancient Greek word for "breath", and in a religious context for "spirit".
The physical body is a biological growth undergoing constant reflexive testing and trial runs as it grows into a physiology capable of housing human consciousness.
They are different from the souls of the living, where in many instances, a person has two or more living souls, depending on the ethnic group.
Clearly it is not a long step from this to the 'Holy Spirit' of Christian theology, the 'Lord and Giver of life', visibly manifested as tongues of fire at Pentecost and ever since associated – in the Christian as in the Stoic mind – with the ideas of vital fire and beneficient warmth.
According to this view, a unique soul is generated when the gametes of parents that carry soulish potentialities meet (Traducian account), but it is God who gives a unique shape to the soul (Creationist account).
Also, the text's placement toward the back of the codex may indicate that it was written later and/or was of relatively lesser importance than the other texts in the codex.
In the roleplay game Household by Two Little Mice, the Slaughs are little peoples that lives in the Basement.
Book synopsis Author Mary Roach investigates the possibility of an afterlife and also attempts to find and define the soul, all while using a scientific approach.
In order to protect the immortal soul from contamination, the perishable souls, the thymos and the epithemitikon, were separated from the head by the neck.
Causes of soul loss in shamanism The prevailing concept in traditional shamanism is "any illness is a consequence of a lost or stolen soul.
They were associated with the Lares, Lemures, Genii, and Di Penates as deities (di) that pertained to domestic, local, and personal cult.
The two states of soul substance are — svābhva (pure or natural) and vibhāva (impure or unnatural state).
When a cycle reaches its end in conflagration (ekpyrôsis), the cosmos becomes pure pneuma from which it regenerates itself.
A newly deceased person may return (回魂) to his home at some nights, sometimes one week (頭七) after his death and the seven po would disappear one by one every 7 days after death.
Genesis 2:7 According to Genesis 2:7 God did not make a body and put a soul into it like a letter into an envelope of dust; rather he formed man's body from the dust, then, by breathing divine breath into it, he made the body of dust live, i.e.
This is associated with the Christian doctrine of the particular judgment; that is, that the soul is parted from the body upon death, but that the soul and body will be reunited on Judgment Day.
Like many Eastern Orthodox and Catholics, the LDS Church teaches that the prayers of the righteous living may be of help to the dead, but the LDS Church takes this one step further with vicarious sacraments (called "ordinances" but with a sacramental theological meaning).
It is unlikely that any of the listeners were so coarse or so limited in their understanding or so removed from the concept of seclusion that they could not find this joy "as it truly is" within themselves "even before you come out of this church today, even before I finish my sermon".
In shamanism, the term loss of soul refers to the loss of the human part of the life force, the soul.
Vishishtadvaita holds, like other darshanas, that the self is chetan, a conscious being that is made up of consciousness.
After death, he said, he went with others to the place of Judgment and saw the souls returning from heaven, and proceeded with them to a place where they chose new lives, human and animal.
The thymos, or thumetikon (emotion, spiritedness, or masculine), which is located near the chest region and is related to anger.
Belief in a personal tutelary genie, which can be inherited or acquired through a vision, and which in some cases can be bought or sold, exists in both Americas.
Affektiv und inkarniert: Ansätze deutscher Mystik als subjekttheoretische Herausforderung (in German).
Philo and some rabbis insisted that God’s providence remains active, keeping all things in existence, giving life in birth and taking it away in death.
Summary Book I contains a summary of Aristotle's method of investigation and a dialectical determination of the nature of the soul.
In recent years, a middle view has been put forward: that the separated soul is an incomplete person.
Gratitude, as an example of divine salvation, was expressed by offering to God the first fruits of the harvest which maintains an identity with those who performed these actions in the past and therefore actualising them in the present.
In 2009, Hollander Jr.'s experiment was subjected to critical review by Masayoshi Ishida in the same journal.
"Memorare Novissima Tua; The Iconography of the Four Last Things as a Representation of the Religious Identity.".
Norton & Company, a nonfiction work by Mary Roach, is a humorous scientific exploration as to whether there is a soul that survives death.
(the Republic IV, 439e); epithumia ("appetite", "affection"), to which are ascribed bodily desires; Plato suggested we have three parts of our soul, which in combination makes us better in our destined vocation, and is a hidden basis for developing our innate ideas.
The approbation of their predecessors, even as mythological and nameless as the Souls of Pe and Nekhen, was important to the Egyptian kings, who referred to them in many inscriptions.
For Michael Schmaus and most trichotomists, the human spirit is the focal point of the image of God.
History Funerary texts with wishes for the deceased in the afterlife are as old as writing itself – the first known phonetic inscriptions were funerary texts from Ur thought to be wishes for an eternal life.
ISBN 0-520-24907-0 William Smith, (1857), Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities, pages 786-7 External links The dictionary definition of pneuma at Wiktionary
Only a soul which has reached the highest type of conjunction with the active intellect can form a perfect conjunction with it after the death of the body, and this is a supreme eudaimonia.
Emerson goes on in the same essay to further articulate his view of this dichotomy between phenomenal plurality and transcendental unity: We live in succession, in division, in parts, in particles.
In the Coffin Texts, one form of the bꜣ that comes into existence after death is corporeal—eating, drinking and copulating.
Background The prose romance form was briefly in vogue in England during the period 1650 to 1665, and the work (two volumes, 1660 and 1664) went through four editions by 1682.
The Catholic Church postulates that the souls are created immediately at the moment of the conception.
The word nephesh never means an immortal soul or an incorporeal part of the human being that can survive death of the body as the spirit of the dead.
A virtuous person is said to be one whose souls are in harmony with each other, while an evil person is one whose souls are in conflict.
It became ubiquitous on the tombs of Christians in the 18th century, and for High Church Anglicans, Methodists, as well as Roman Catholics in particular, it was a prayerful request that their soul should find peace in the afterlife.
Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz argued that Creationism guards the dignity and spirituality of the rational soul, and is the proper seat of the image of God.
Epicurus Epicurus, with a view reflecting that of the Greek philosopher Democritus, suggested that the human soul was corporeal and composed of small particles spread out within the entire body.
Creationism, which had always prevailed in Eastern Christianity, became the general opinion of the medieval theologians.
'Harmonious/Gentle Spirit') is the static side of a kami, while the ara-mitama appears in times of peril.
The race-soul was variously believed to be the source of such things as justice and poetry; non-Aryan and mixed races were believed to lack these qualities.
Thumos may draw from this to strengthen man with our reasoning, this tripartite division is as follows: Reason (thoughts, reflections, questioning) Spiritedness (ego, glory, honor) and Desires (natural e.g.
Philosopher Henry More introduced the term into the medical setting and considered the astral spirit to be a part of the body that was separate from the "rational soul" and viewed it as the "seat of impulses".
The term is derived from the Greek letter Θ, theta, which in Scientology represents "the source of life and life itself." Origins of the concept The concept for the thetan was first described in the early 1950s by L.
In Christian theological anthropology, bipartite refers to the view that a human being is composed of two distinct components, material and immaterial, body and soul.
In philosophy and theology, metempsychosis (Ancient Greek: μετεμψύχωσις) is the transmigration of the soul, especially its reincarnation after death.
Women who have previously given birth have more relaxed uterine muscles which are more sensitive to fetal motion during subsequent pregnancies.
Other variations include "Requiescat in pace et in amore" for "May he/she rest in peace and love" and "In pace requiescat et in amore".
Plato Plato's Phaedrus and his later work The Republic discuss thumos as one of the three constituent parts of the human psyche.
According to Hayyim ben Joseph Vital, women could not become dybbuks because their souls did not participate in gilgul.
In popular culture In the Legacy of Kain video game series, Sluagh are among the enemies that Raziel encounters in the Spectral Realm.
Female benandanti were seen as connected to the processions of the dead, as beneficient protectors against the malandanti.
She is to utilize all of her wiles and techniques to ensnare the prince, as anything less would not be a true test.
Battle with the animal soul In the Tanya In the Tanya, Rabbi Shneur Zalman of Liadi stated that the nefesh ha'elokit is "literally a part of God above." This is supported by quoting the morning prayer "Elokai neshamah", which says "the soul You gave me is pure.
The father then sends down the firstborn, who is the bridegroom, to be with the bride, who has cleansed herself in the bridal chamber.
The manuscript was cited by Trendelenburg, Torstrik, Biehl, and Apelt in his critical editions of the treatise On the Soul.
Thumos, also spelled thymos (Ancient Greek: θυμός), is the Ancient Greek concept of 'spiritedness' (as in "a spirited stallion" or "spirited debate").
Secondly, because every rational being is well aware that death is bitter, and the separation of soul and body cannot take place without inexpressible suffering.
The word indicates a physical association with breath or blood and is also used to express the human desire for recognition.
Philosophical Viewpoints From a philosophical standpoint, there are many different viewpoints when it comes to the Astral Spirit.
Among later Greek writers the psychostasia was the prerogative of Minos, judge of the newly deceased in Hades.
In preparation for the return of the soul, the shaman may preliminarily produce the return of an animal power.
Spook was also listed as a New York Times Notable Books pick in 2005, as well as a New York Times Bestseller, and it was also an October Booksense pick.
The nefesh habehamit itself may be defeated by causing the brain to control the heart, that is, by causing logic to control and guide the emotions.
Thirdly, that God, a reality which human consciousness can not comprehend, is pre-existent, that is he exists prior to time and to his creation.
(1993), Purana Perennis: Reciprocity and Transformation in Hindu and Jaina Texts, State University of New York Press, ISBN 0-7914-1381-0 Jaini, Jagmander Lal (2013), Outlines of Jainism, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 978-1-107-61567-0 Jain, Vijay K.
The allegorical plot was intended to depict a concept of the human soul based on the traditions of Christian mysticism, to criticize the political ideas of Thomas Hobbes and his followers, and to defend the Puritan political idea of theocracy.
Its allegory in the style of Edmund Spenser was influenced by a work of Henry More, like Ingelo one of the Cambridge Platonists, the Psychodia Platonica from 1642.
Mitama Festival A widely celebrated Shinto festival to the dead in Japan, particularly at the Yasukuni Shrine.
For example, when a student learns a proof for the Pythagorean theorem, his agent intellect abstracts the intelligibility of all the images his eye senses (and that are a result of the translation by imagination of sense perceptions into immaterial phantasmata), i.e.
That is to say, that words are only meaningful if validated by one's actions; When people report strategies, feelings or beliefs, their behaviors must correspond with these statements if they are to be believed.
For if a woman is quick with child, and by a potion, or otherwise, killeth it in her womb; or if any one beat her, whereby the child dieth in her body, and she is delivered of a dead child; this, though not murder, was by the ancient law homicide or manslaughter.
Plato, most of the time, says that there is a distinct reward-and-punishment phase of the afterlife between reincarnations.
A spirit body is, according to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church), the organization of a spiritual element, made into the spiritual form of man, which was made in the same likeness (shape and form) of God the Father.
In the allegory, Bentivolio represents God's will, while his sister Urania represents heavenly light.
See also Tripartite (theology) Sigmund Freud's concepts of the id, ego and superego References External links "Plato: Moral Psychology".
According to a hadith from Imam Sadiq: God created two connected worlds, the world of upper and lower, then combined the two worlds into the son of Adam...Adam testified that there is no god but God and created him with the soul and body and the spirit.
All spirit is matter, but it is more fine or pure, and can only be discerned by purer eyes; We cannot see it; but when our bodies are purified we shall see that it is all matter." This spirit matter always existed and is co-eternal with God.
The liberated soul has four qualities: infinite joy, infinite energy, infinite consciousness, and infinite knowledge.
Both of these concepts refer to a divine presence or energy that animates the universe and is accessible to human beings through prayer, meditation, and other spiritual practices.
Buddhists regard the identification of an independent soul with perception as mistaken, since our perception of the world depends on the sense organs.
Thumos is the name of an American progressive doom/post-metal band whose music is based on the works of Plato [2].
However, there are also instances where the body can still live despite the loss of all of its souls, such as the phenomenon called mekararuanan among the Ibanag.
Common law The study of the early history of common law in the context of the abortion debate presents some challenges.
The Christian doctrine of salvation therefore does not imply a redemption from the body, but a redemption of the body and the soul.
In the Republic (Book IV) soul becomes divided into (See Plato's tripartite theory of soul): nous ("intellect", "reason"), which is or should be the controlling part which subjugates the appetites with the help of thumos.
Although for a time, the several views were upheld, and it was doubtful which came nearest the truth, the Church subsequently condemned the first two and approved the third.
Tussar silk is considered more textured than cultivated Bombyx or "mulberry" silk, but it has shorter fibres, which makes it less durable.
In 1987, a plant was purchased in Berks County, Pennsylvania but the debt created by the purchase eventually led to the company having to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
In order to receive a permit, one must complete an application and return it to the nearest banding office.
It was calendered and pressed so firmly on the surface that no cotton yarns could be seen, while the back side of the fabric shows all cotton yarns with little silk.
It was unearthed at the archeological site at Çatalhöyük in Turkey and dates to 8000-9000 years ago.
It is grown ornamentally and is a large sturdy plant that may be trained into bowers and enclosures.
Uses Uses for regular glass fiber include mats and fabrics for thermal insulation, electrical insulation, sound insulation, high-strength fabrics or heat- and corrosion-resistant fabrics.
Medici Medici or broder medici is a fine, light-weight wool thread formerly manufactured by DMC Group.
the eggs) of the silk-worm, and these "seeds" being hatched in the spring, and the worms fed with mulberry leaves, they spun their silk, and went through their transformations.
The design of the new Lonja of Valencia was derived from a similar structure in the Lonja of Palma de Majorca, built by the architect Guillem Sagrera in 1448.
Sheets Self-assembly of silk at standing liquid-gas interphases of a solution tough and strong sheets.
Price Khazz is noted as one of the costlier cloths, and it was priced at 16 Tankahs/silver coins (equal to the monthly salary of a soldier in the 14th century).
This is done by allowing twist into a short section of the rolag, and then pulling back, without letting the rolag change position in your hands, until the yarn is the desired thickness.
Woolen (American English) or woollen (Commonwealth English) is a type of yarn made from carded wool.
The Uru people, an indigenous people predating the Inca civilisation, live on Lake Titicaca upon floating islands fashioned from this plant.
References External links ISO 2:1973 Textiles — Designation of the direction of twist in yarns and related products
Over the years, production dropped from 300,000 pounds of yarn at its peak, to 50,000 per week in 2007 and annual revenues dropped from $20 million in 1997 to around $5 million in 2007.
At its peak, it was a constituent of the FT 30 index of leading companies on the London Stock Exchange.
Applications Carbon fiber can have higher cost than other materials which has been one of the limiting factors of adoption.
Clients in the 1960s and 1970s included Burlington Industries and Mohawk Industries, and later military contracts.
The Bangarra Dance Theatre's 2005 production of CLAN incorporated traditional desert string games into one of their performances, creating intricate patterns as they thread themselves through long, elastic strings.
The thick black corded silk ("a kind of taffeta") was used for "scholastic gowns, and for hatbands and scarves".
Lotus weaving was invented by an ethnic Intha woman named Sa Oo in the village of Kyaingkhan in the early 1900s.
This grass is common and is a dominant grass in various prairie and grassland ecosystems in the Great Plains.
Sorona is DuPont de Nemours, Inc.'s brand of Triexta, a subclass of polytrimethylene terephthalate (PTT) named and commercialized in 2000.
Sokuri (Korean: 소쿠리, pronounced [so.kʰu.ɾi]) is a round, rimmed woven basket made of finely-split bamboo.
"The ikat velvet pieces which have been located so far and can be identified as Indian are similar in style to the mashru being woven in western India ...
In 2014, the University of Pennsylvania received a $10 million grant from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences to study the impact of asbestos on the community of Ambler.
Name and discovery Riebeckite was first described in 1888 for an occurrence on Socotra Island, Aden Governorate, Yemen, and named for German explorer Emil Riebeck (1853–1885).
In the South Island, kiekie is more common in higher rainfall areas, reaching its southern limit near the Clarence River in the east and in Fiordland in the west.
They have white, waxy, fleshy spines along their backs, which become more prominent at later instars.
Additionally, the net must be placed at an appropriate height from the hard ground, so that a falling object could not make contact with the ground.
These silkworms live in the wild in forest trees belonging to Terminalia species and Shorea robusta, as well as other food plants such as jamun and oak found in South Asia, eating the leaves of the trees on which they live.
It was used as a sewing thread and for making lace, shoe laces, hat strings, ribbons, lining materials and in the cable industry.
As it falls, it leaves a thread attached by the meniscus to the nozzle as long as the viscosity is in the correct range for fiber formation.
For health reasons, it is recommended that existing fibre-cement products that are in good condition are left undisturbed and possibly encapsulated, to prevent fibre release.
History In 1881, the Keasbey and Mattison (K&M) Company began the manufacture of asbestos-containing material such as insulation and shingles in Ambler.
As the soil-based fungi can easily be carried on boots, clothing, or tools, the wilt spread to the Americas despite years of preventive efforts.
History 1871–1920 The business was founded in 1871 in Rochdale as Turner Brothers by John, Robert and Samuel Turner to manufacture cotton-cloth-based mechanical packing.
Discussions on land usage and wildlife reached the United States Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources in the Subcommittee on Public Lands and Reserved Water, and ultimately the ski resort was not built.
Examples include "Seabrook", named after plantation proprietor William Seabrook, and "Bleak Hall", named after the plantation John Townsend managed.
Thicker monofilaments are typically used for industrial purposes rather than fabric production or decoration.
Fibres created using this method may need encouragement to solidify by removing water from the fibre with chemicals such as (environmentally undesirable) methanol or acetone, and also may require later stretching of the fibre to achieve desirable properties.
When the diameter becomes smaller than 1 micron, the corresponding structures are called fullerene nanowhiskers or fullerene nanotubes.
This means that this species cannot be imported, cultivated, transported, commercialized, planted, or intentionally released into the environment anywhere in the European Union.
Bhagalpur silk The tussar silk-weaving industry in Bhagalpur, more than a century old, has about 30,000 handloom weavers working on some 25,000 handlooms.
Some companies have come to put twin yarns on the market to show off combinations of one regular yarn and novelty yarns in assorted colors or even two different types of novelty yarns.
Organza is distinguished by its crisp hand, stiffness relative to weight, and slippery surface texture.
Davidson imposed his sentence and quoted the Scottish theologian William Barclay: "The Romans had a proverb that money was like sea water.
Olek also makes public statements with their work, such as blanketing a women's homeless shelter in Delhi in 2015 or installing an underwater cozy at the Cancun Underwater Museum.
Propagation Propagation of sisal is generally by using bulbils produced from buds in the flower stalk or by suckers growing around the base of the plant, which are grown in nursery fields until large enough to be transplanted to their final positions.
Sports equipment In 2007, Cellucomp partnered with the American sports equipment company E21 to produce a fly fishing rod made out of Curran.
However, some such pottery, called hair-thermal pottery, is found with similar shape and decoration, dating from the same period as some of the genuine asbestos-containing ceramics, and is discussed below.
barbadense organized by market class Traders in cotton have developed several broad categories called market classes.
Spanish names include bejuco canesta, sotacaballo, and pabello, (Puerto Rico, Central America, basket vine, substitute horse, or pavilion).
The extra element can be a metallic thread, or a much-thicker or much-narrower strand of yarn, or yarn that varies between thick and thin.
Fodder After crushing the seeds to extract linseed oil, the resultant linseed meal is a protein-rich feed for ruminants, rabbits, and fish.
Further processing of BCF into materials is carried out using "cold technologies" with low energy costs.
Since the valuable fibres are located in the phloem, they must often be separated from the woody core, the xylem, and sometimes also from the epidermis.
Khazz could be of superior quality or low quality, and the lower quality materials had other names like khazzaj, khazash and khashaz Khazz was also used to describe a cloth of blended wool (in some cases rabbit wool) and silk, and was also used historically to describe the beaver and its hide.
It is very fine and transparent but strong, the structure is similar to a gauze fabric that is loose and open in weave.
1920–2001 In 1920 it merged with the Washington Chemical Company, Newalls Insulation Company (founded as Magnesia Coverings by Frederick Newall) and J.
Combining synthetic fibres (which can have high strength, lustre, and fire retardant qualities) with natural fibres (which have good water absorbency and skin comforting qualities) is very common.
Construction safety net Construction safety nets are used on high-rise building construction sites to prevent the fall of people or objects from the site.
The specific type of net to be used depends upon many factors, such as the falling object's speed and mass.
As a result, stress fibers form only close to the ridges, and these acto-myosin bundles pull on their surroundings anisotropically.
Asbestos turned out to be harmful to health and produces mesothelioma, a form of lung cancer, years after professional or occasional exposure (asbestosis).
The earliest unambiguous reference to a spinning wheel in India is dated to 1350, suggesting that the spinning wheel was likely introduced from Iran to India during the Delhi Sultanate.
Ampelodesmos is a genus of Mediterranean plants in the grass family, which is known by the common names stramma, Mauritania grass, rope grass, and dis(s) grass.
External links Cocoonase of Bombyx mori at UniProt Cocoonase-assisted protein of Bombyx mori at UniProt == References ==
How the plant arrived on the island is not clear; Thor Heyerdahl argued that it had been brought by prehistoric Peruvians, but it is at least as likely to have been brought by birds.
See also Gauze Organdy Tulle (netting), another type of sheer fabric References == External links ==
A safety net is a type of net designed to protect people from injury after falling from heights by limiting the distance they fall, and dissipating the impact energy.
After fruiting, the pseudostem dies, but offshoots will normally have developed from the base, so that the plant as a whole is perennial.
The necessary radiation dose to treat mesothelioma that has not been surgically removed would be beyond human tolerance.
In 1973 Queen lead singer Freddie Mercury released a record under the name Larry Lurex, while recording the group's self-titled debut album.
Armazine was a type of corded silk used for women's gowns and men's waistcoats, first known from the Elizabethan era.
The width, which has the retroreflective surface, is always wider than the thickness with standard widths of 1/69", 1/32", and 1/23".
When exposed to heat or moisture, acids in the film base begin to deteriorate to an unusable state, releasing acetic acid with a characteristic vinegary smell, causing the process to be known as "vinegar syndrome".
Shockingly, the terms of the settlement required Ness Motley to recommend the same terms to any future claimants it might represent.
This risk may be the result of exposure to asbestos dust brought home on the clothing and hair of asbestos workers via washing a worker's clothes or coming into contact with asbestos-contaminated work clothing.
Mechanical Each spider and each type of silk has a set of mechanical properties optimised for their biological function.
The genus probably originated through ancient hybrid speciation, as a cross between parents from tribes Stipeae and Phaenospermateae.
More intense retting separates the fibre bundles into elementary fibres, which can be several centimetres long.
Hosiery yarn comes from a separate spinning process (melt spinning), and is used with circular knitting machines to form fabric.
Turnall Fibre Cement Ltd still operates in Zimbabwe but as an independent company, mainly producing asbestos cement sheets and pipes.
The term may derive from French organsin, ultimately from the Central Asian city of Urgench, the midpoint of the Northern Silk Road.
The yarn formation process is significantly more comprehensive and results in a very sleek yarn which will offer a clean looking woven fabric, such as for suitings.
Furthermore, a later type of asbestos-laden ware was also found here, known in the Russian archaeological literature as waffe ware.
Sisal plants have a lifespan of 7–10 years, producing 200–250 usable leaves containing fibers used in various applications.
Lotus silk uses fibres from a specific variety of lotus called padonma kya (ပဒုမ္မာကြာ), which produces large, fragrant pink flowers.
Based on this, cells seem to be able to sense the structural characteristics of their surrounding and consequently respond by adopting the orientation of topographical stimuli.
There are about 50 Gossypium species, making it the largest genus in the tribe Gossypieae, and new species continue to be discovered.
Adult male Attacus atlas moths produce juvenile hormones I and II, with JH II being the predominant form, and at levels significantly higher than in females, highlighting sexual dimorphism in hormone production.
Its stems and leaves are a dominant feature in many areas of New Zealand forest, the stems eventually reaching up to 30 m (98 ft) long.
Briefly, it has been supposed that cells, once seeded, form focal adhesions on top of the ridges and not above the grooves.
Corchorus olitorius is used mainly in the cuisines of southern Asia, the Middle East, North Africa and West Africa, Corchorus capsularis in Japan and China.
A variation of the process exists in which the silkworms are allowed to leave before the cocoons are soaked in boiling water to soften the silk, and then the fibers are reeled.
Recent work indicates that totora has been growing on Easter Island for at least 30,000 years, which is well before humans arrived on the island.
Under its present ownership by Honeywell, Bendix continues to manufacture automotive brakes and industrial brakes for a wide variety of industries.
In 1838 he and his brothers Ralph, Rush and Frank established the manufacturing firm of Cheney Brothers in South Manchester.
When doped with alkali metals, such as potassium, they become superconductors at 18 K (−255.2 °C; −427.3 °F).
Harakeke left to go with the goddess Wainuiātea to the coasts, while kiekie remained with Tāne, the god of the forests.
Taxonomy and etymology Linnaeus is given credit for describing Gossypium barbadense ("the cotton encountered in Barbados").
In Puerto Rico, it grows in farm and urban areas, where the species grows on roadsides, fencerows, woodlots, brushy pastures, brushy vacant lots, and stream bottom galleries.
Despite kudzu's notoriety, Asian privet and invasive roses have each proved to be greater threats in the United States.
The appearance of this fabric generally depends on the linear density of the yarn and the weave chosen.
It is similar to Macrochloa tenacissima and both species are used to produce a fiber product known as esparto or esparto grass.
Properties Unlike real silk (a protein fiber), but like most plant fibers, lotus silk is a cellulose fiber.
It is known in English as hoopvine (Florida), black basket wythe, cooper's wythe, basket wiss or basket with, and hoop with.
One of the largest regions in France for flax production is Normandy with nearly one-third of the world's production.
As they lack fully formed mouthparts, the adults cannot eat, subsisting entirely on fat reserves accumulated during the larval stage.
Some companies also primarily measure in ounces with common sizes being three-ounce, four-ounce, six-ounce, and eight-ounce skeins.
These two structurally different collagen fibrils are speculated to be formed from the same molecules with type I collagen being the primary collagen found within both structures.
Washing machines and name licensing Although popularly connected to washing machines, the Bendix Corporation itself never manufactured them.
GM cotton crop was 4.0 million hectares in 2011 the second largest area in the world, the Chinese GM cotton crop was third largest by area with 3.9 million hectares and Pakistan had the fourth largest GM cotton crop area of 2.6 million hectares in 2011.
Ghalta has a characterised check pattern that is bound with one, two, or three lines, and the portion in between the one direction may be filled with another (different than the rest of the fabric) coloured silk that creates a combination of checks and stripes.
4200 BC, and was the backbone of the development of coastal cultures such as the Norte Chico, Moche, and Nazca.
Retroglo is used for a wide variety of applications including high-visibility clothing for joggers, walkers, bicycle riders, and highway workers.
Categories of asbestos ceramics Asbestos ceramics are usually classified as a sub-type of comb ceramic ware.
Origin and distribution Around 3600 BC, when typical comb ware ceramics were replaced by late comb ware ceramics, the practice of mixing asbestos into pottery clay emerged in eastern Finland and the Karelian regions near Lake Ladoga, and also along the Neva River.
Eternit is a registered trademark for a brand of fibre cement currently owned by the Belgian company Etex.
Riebeckite granite The riebeckite granite known as ailsite, found on the island of Ailsa Craig in western Scotland, is prized for its use in the manufacture of curling stones.
Similarly, fibrils that form the translucent corneal stromal matrix form orthogonal sheets and withstand the force of traction in two dimensions.
Production Ghalta was produced in a number of towns, including Mubarakpur, which had been producing textiles since the 18th and early nineteenth centuries.
Uses and applications Sorona has been used in the manufacture of clothing, residential carpets, automotive fabrics, and plastic parts.
The Libby Dam is 17 miles (27 km) upstream from Libby, one of the Columbia River Treaty Dams, finished in 1975.
It is a double-layered material with a thick cotton base and covered with an almost single stranded silken warp and woof.
Banana bunchy top disease symptoms include dark green streaks of variable length in leaf veins, midribs and petioles.
This plant has a commercial value because it has useful fibers which may be used to make production of brooms.
The two materials may be used uniformly or the glass may be specifically placed in those portions of the structure that will experience tensile loads.
Gallery See also Macclesfield silk museums Magnanery Silk industry in Azerbaijan Silk industry in China Silk mill of Caraglio and Museum References External links Smithsonian sericulture history Silk Production Process Silk worm Life cycle photos
The FTC states that because this material is arguably comparable to other multicomponent polyester fibers, other companies that manufacture fibers satisfying the definition of "elasterell-p" may use that name in making required fiber content disclosures on labels.
Some of the Fennoscandian vessel patterns are identical to the Neolithic and Bronze Age Jōmon culture in Japan (jōmon meaning 'rope pattern').
The Atlas moth is one of the largest lepidopterans, with a wingspan often measuring from 250mm to 300mm.
Notes This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Smith, William, ed.
Sometimes the terms "Egyptian long-staple" and "Egyptian extra-long staple" are used, as Egypt and Sudan produce cottons with a variety of fiber lengths.
Most wild cottons are diploid, but a group of five species from America and Pacific islands are tetraploid, apparently due to a single hybridization event around 1.5 to 2 million years ago.
Since the late 1970s, further types of carbon fiber yarn entered the global market, offering higher tensile strength and higher elastic modulus.
In 2019, Bijiyashanti Tongbram from Manipur, India, began making lotus silk using lotus stems gathered from the Loktak Lake.
Grace and Company bought the local mine, by which time it was producing 80% of the vermiculite in the world.
Visil rayon and HOPE FR are flame retardant forms of viscose that have silica embedded in the fiber during manufacturing.
The regiment went to the front on 29 August, 1,010 strong but undisciplined and almost wholly ignorant of drill.
London Kaye creates yarnbomb graffiti and, in addition to her art installations, creates advertisement yarnbombs for brands like Valentino and Miller Lite.
Cultivation Hesperostipa spartea is cultivated as an ornamental grass for native plant gardens and natural landscaping, and as a plant for Great Plains—Prairie habitat restoration.
Description Growing to 1.2 metres (4 feet) in height, short branches support leaves ranging from 2–12.5 centimeters (1–5 inches) in length.
Uses Design codes Russia Since October 18, 2017, JV 297.1325800.2017 "Fibreconcrete constructions with nonmetallic fiber has been put into operation.
Blooming from May to September, the umbel is 2–3 cm (3⁄4–1+1⁄4 in) wide, with individual flowers up to 1.5 cm (1⁄2 in) across; each has five petals and five sepals.
Scruggs first came to the public eye after successfully suing the asbestos industry on behalf of ill shipyard workers.
Cotton is the primary natural fibre used by humans today, amounting to about 80% of world natural fibre production.
It crystallizes in the monoclinic system, usually as long prismatic crystals showing a diamond-shaped cross section, but also in fibrous, bladed, acicular, columnar, and radiating forms.
"Allotetraploid" means that the genomes of these cotton species comprise two distinct subgenomes, referred to as the At and Dt (the 't' for tetraploid, to distinguish them from the A and D genomes of the related diploid species).
In January 2009, the United States FDA approved using conventional therapies such as surgery in combination with radiation and/or chemotherapy on stage I or II Mesothelioma after research conducted by a nationwide study by Duke University concluded an almost 50 point increase in remission rates.
Its function is to weaken the fibers of the cocoon, thereby facilitating the emergence of the adult insect.
The anhydroglucose unit is the fundamental repeating structure of cellulose and has three hydroxyl groups which can react to form acetate esters.
Those cultivars are more susceptible to insect pests, which suggests the natural purpose of gossypol is to deter pests.
In 1977, a piece of ceramic created 5400–5500 years ago and designed to look like a silkworm was discovered in Nancun, Hebei, providing the earliest known evidence of sericulture.
About the breakup of Ness, Motley, Loadholt, Richardson & Poole into smaller firms, including ultimately Motley Rice.
It can also be used locally as a fodder for livestock and to stabilise sand dunes and rehabilitate salt soils, due to its tolerance of saline conditions.
Marine During World War II, Bendix was contracted to make engine order telegraphs for the United States Navy.
Among some groups, including the Pitjantjajara, a small modesty apron was made of the string for young girls to wear when they reached puberty.
The sericin is removed by placing the cocoons in hot water, which frees the silk filaments and readies them for reeling.
In Korea, the plant root is made into chikcha (칡차; "arrowroot tea"), used in traditional medicine, and processed starch used for culinary purposes such as primary ingredient for naengmyeon (칡냉면).
He was quoted as saying, "DuPont argues that Sorona is going to be the first billion-dollar biotech product other than a pharmaceutical".
In those conditions, the geometrical cues provided by collagen or scaffold fibers are able to influence the orientation of cells.
The convention of using these two letters to unambiguously designate twist direction was already used in the cordage industry by 1957.
The trunk of the tree is covered by rings of very sharp spines, believed by some biologists to have evolved as protection against the extinct Megatherium giant ground sloth.
Following the demise of the business, UK victims of the company's asbestos pollution, such as those near to the former J.W.
Handspinning woolen yarn Woolen yarn is handspun using the long draw technique, and the yarn is spun from a rolag.
She was able to remember the correct sequence of finger movements for nearly every figure she made, with only an occasional mistake which she quickly corrected.
To produce a carbon fiber, the carbon atoms are bonded together in crystals that are more or less aligned parallel to the fiber's long axis as the crystal alignment gives the fiber a high strength-to-volume ratio (which is to say, the fiber is strong for its size).
The work has not survived, but Patriarch Photius gives an account of the work of Theophanes, and he repeats the author's statement that, besides adding other books to the ten which formed the original work, he had written another work on the history of Justinian.
Whittaker & Robinson, Manchester and Hard, Arnold (1944) The Story of Rayon, United Trade Press Ltd, London External links The dictionary definition of viscose at Wiktionary The dictionary definition of Bemberg at Wiktionary
It proclaims in golden letters the following inscription: Inclita domus sum annis aedificata quindecim.
The mixture is aged 20 hours during which partial hydrolysis occurs and acid resin precipitates as flakes.
Exposure to asbestos is the most likely cause today but it can occur following other medical conditions.
ISO 2 is an international standard for direction of twist designation for yarns, complex yarns, slivers, slubbings, rovings, cordage, and related products.
The genus name comes from the Greek ampelos, "vine", and desmos, "bond", from its former use as a string to tie up grapevines.
In the United States EPA mandates that such cyanide ponds be covered at all times to prevent loss of wildlife.
Their colours, and particularly the crimson and red, are commonly false, and they have but little gloss, and no brightness at all".
Colorful East Indian armazine was said to be "slighter than those made in Europe and of an inferior quality.
The documented presence of asbestos fibers in water supplies and food products has fostered concerns about the possible impact of long-term and, as yet, unknown exposure of the general population to these fibers.
Bird protection netting is applied directly on the stand-alone trees or espaliers like peaches, pears, apples, grapes, or on the side ventilation windows of growing tunnels as in the case of berries like strawberries, raspberries, blueberries, and cranberries.
Koehler at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, although interest in line engraving was in decline at that time.
For this program, they developed the first cardio tachometer and respiration rate monitor system which enabled a ground-based physician to observe an astronaut's vital signs.
History Mashru is explicitly mentioned in the administrative document, the Ain-i-Akbari, of the 16th-century Mughal Empire, under silken kinds of stuff: "...
In India, it is grown in the states of Meghalaya, Assam, Nagaland, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and some small cities in other states.
Pandanus and sand-palm are used in areas such as the Daly River region and Arnhem Land to weave carry baskets, dilly string bags, wall hangings, fibre sculpture, floor mats and fish nets.
When natural hair-type fibers are burned, they tend to singe and have a smell of burnt hair; this is because many, like human hair, are protein-derived.
Congress aiming to ban the importation, manufacture, and use of all asbestos fibers, including chrysotile, amosite, crocidolite, tremolite, actinolite, anthophyllite, winchite, and richterite.
The site also includes portions of Wissahickon Creek, Tannery Run Creek and Rose Valley Creek which run adjacent to the three parcels.
Related polymers in this series include polyethylene terephthalate (2GT) and polybutylene terephthalate (polytetramethylene terephthalate) (4GT).
The material is retroreflective, meaning it reflects light back to a light source, such as toward a car's headlights.
Regulation Based on research using mice and studies of Ehlers-Danlos syndromes (EDS), which is characterized by hypermobility of the joints, and high levels of skin laxity, researcher found that tenascin X expression levels correlated with the number of present collagen fibrils.
External links Richard Scruggs, Frontline: Inside the Tobacco Deal November 28 2007 indictment August 21 2007 criminal contempt charge LA Times story on Lott's suit
These are shrubs or free-standing vines up to 10 m wide and 6 m tall, with hairless twining, trailing or climbing stems.
Fibronectin a glycoprotein that binds to receptor proteins known as integrins within the cytoskeleton is a key player in the hypothesized method of fibrillogenesis.
Hugo Wolfram, father of mathematician Stephen Wolfram, served as managing director of the Lurex Company.
It was one of the companies partnered with the Ralph Lauren Corporation to produce the distinctive outerwear for the 2014 Winter Olympics team representing the United States.
It was a loosely woven, soft, double faced twill weave construction that was primarily used for coats and overcoats.
Religious admonition The wearing of pure silk, particularly next to the skin, was widely held to be an impious luxury for good Muslims.
Usages Crop protection Bird nets are used to prevent bird damage of vegetable and fruit crops as well as seedlings.
The original bridge was constructed by the Civilian Conservation Corps during the Great Depression, and the falls are a sacred site to the Kutenai tribes who originally lived in the area.
In Titicaca, it commonly grows at a water depth of 2.5–3 m (8.2–9.8 ft) but occurs less frequently as deep as 5.5 m (18 ft).
The pyriform threads polymerise under ambient conditions, become functional immediately, and are usable indefinitely, remaining biodegradable, versatile and compatible with other materials in the environment.
It is usual to introduce impurities into the glass in the form of other materials to lower its working temperature.
The glass beads used in Retroglo are much smaller than the beads used in reflective road surface marking paint used on highways.
See also Meghalaya Sericulture Assam silk Agriculture in Thailand References External links Budelman, Joanna.
The genus Oceanopapaver, previously of uncertain placement, has recently been synonymized under Corchorus.
Ampelodesmos mauritanicus is a large clumping perennial bunchgrass, which is native to the Mediterranean region.
Among the historical statements preserved by Photius from Theophanes is the discovery, in the reign of Justinian, of the fact that silk was the product of a worm, which had not been before known to the people of the Roman Empire.
CertainTeed signed a consent order and agreed to follow the State's order but Nicolet refused to comply.
Bast fibres are also used in the non-woven, moulding, and composite technology industries for the manufacturing of non-woven mats and carpets, composite boards as furniture materials, automobile door panels and headliners, etc.
Sustainable silk Peace silk The most popular substitute for traditional silk is peace silk, also known as ahimsa silk.
A small patch of kudzu was discovered in 2009 in Leamington, Ontario, the second-warmest growing region of Canada after south coastal British Columbia.
Since the 1980s, polyester film stock (sometimes referred to under Kodak's trade name "ESTAR Base") has become more commonplace, particularly for archival applications.
Mashru Mashru silk samples in John Forbes Watson book elicits Qutni as Roques reports cottonis variations including stripes of cotton and silk that insinuates Mashru, the most related cloth from Gujrat, i.e., Qutni while J.
However, asbestos fibres are inevitably released during machining operations of the objects made of fibre-cement and by long-term erosion of the materials exposed to atmospheric weathering and wind when cement degrades.
As early as the 1930s, K&M disposed of out-of-specification asbestos-containing manufacturing materials and other solid waste in the park parcel.
Usage of mist nets Mist nets have been used by Japanese hunters for nearly 300 years to capture birds.
PBS Newshour "Asbestos: elimination of asbestos-related diseases" World Health Organization ADAO to present testimony before the U.S.
Varieties According to Plants of the World Online the flax species has two botanical varieties, Linum usitatissimum var.
Once formed, the focal adhesions produce a signal that starts to diffuse into the cell inducing stress fiber assembly.
Silk organza is woven by a number of mills along the Yangtze River and in the province of Zhejiang in China.
Light-weight tubular steel seating was also used in aircraft seating in the 1930s and Reichardt's improved version of Eisengarn was used as a covering for the seats.
But this is still putative, as they may have come from local wild Musa species used for fiber or as ornamentals, not food; and banana phytoliths are absent in other contemporary sites in South Asia.
There are two high-confidence miRNAs that can potentially serve as biomarkers of asbestos exposure and malignant mesothelioma.
It is relatively uncommon and the earliest manifestation of disease following asbestos exposure, usually occurring within 10 years from exposure.
The resultant fabrics will be classified as being either woolen or worsted, but this designation is assigned during fiber processing and yarn formation, not in the cloth or finished garment.
The first yarn was of fair quality, but sales resistance was heavy, and silk associates worked zealously to discredit acetate and discourage its use.
The wavelength typically used to measure fibrillogenesis with a spectrophotometer ranges from 310nm to 313nm.
Paints and coatings Curran improves the rheological properties of liquids such as plastics and paints.
See also Corchorifatty acid F Malva Hibiscus Althaea References External links Malvaceae.info: Corchorus webpage
The term "banana" is applied also to other members of the Musa genus, such as the scarlet banana (Musa coccinea), the pink banana (Musa velutina), and the Fe'i bananas.
Valencia's commercial prosperity reached its peak during the 15th century, and led to the construction of a new building.
Also in aquaculture (like shrimp and tilapia farms to mention a few), growers need to protect their work and fish crops from marauding birds.
By 1875, the Wuppertal company Barthels & Feldhoff employed more than 300 people in Eisengarn production.
Claimants that are extremely ill generally receive far less compensation than they would otherwise qualify for.
Attorney’s office about an improper communication from a third party associated with Scruggs, and at the U.S.
The flower bracts were traditionally tied up using leaves of the plant, to protect the flowers from being eaten by kiore (the Polynesian rat).
Birds surveyed were from a variety of ecological guilds, including nectivores, insectivores, frugivores, obligatory army ant followers, forest edge specialists and flocking species.
Type of embroidery thread Threads for hand embroidery include: Crewel yarn Crewel yarn (also known as crewel wool or French wool) is a fine 2-ply yarn of wool or, less often, a wool-like acrylic.
Whole flax seeds are chemically stable, but ground flax seed meal, because of oxidation, may go rancid when left exposed to air at room temperature in as little as a week.
Every two year RWTH Aachen University's Institut für Textiltechnik hosts the International Glass Fibers Symposium where basalt fiber is devoted a separate section.
Thus, the woolly white silk is often referred to as the fabric of peace when it is processed without killing the silkworm.
Sorona is a co-polymer of 1,3-propanediol (obtained by fermentation) and petroleum-derived terephthalic acid (TPA) or dimethyl terephthalate (DMT).
Production in India India is the second-largest producer of tussar silk, and the exclusive producer of Indian tussar (also known as tropical tussar), which is largely tended to by tribals.
Khazz was one of several polychrome silks mentioned in writings on the time of early Caliphate, the others being harir, dibaj and washy (this latter being an embroidered silk fabric).
The standard uses capital letters S and Z to indicate the direction of twist, as suggested by the direction of slant of the central portions of these two letters.
Metallic threads range from a synthetic yarn with metallic elements worked in, to real precious metal threads that do not feature any yarn at all: Bullion is a hollow metallic thread consisting of wire coiled into a spring, which does not retract when stretched.
Curran is sold in the form of a powder, granule or slurry for different applications and is typically sold in quantities of 15 kilograms.
The name of the silkworms in Arabic is dudat al-qazz and sericulture and silk weaving have a long history as vital industries in Syria and Palestine.
In turbostratic carbon fiber the sheets of carbon atoms are haphazardly folded, or crumpled, together.
The inflorescence is made up of a few long-haired spikelets each up to 4.5 centimetres (1+3⁄4 in) long.
It has been grown in 28 provinces of Thailand since 1974 where the heavy rainfall and humid atmosphere of the region suits the eri culture.
After this, the scientists switched to purchasing B-grade carrots not fit for consumers directly from farmers.
Senate Panel Committee on Environment and Public Works hearing entitled "An Examination of the Health Effects of Asbestos and Methods of Mitigating Such Impacts", June 12, 2007
Kraemer also appealed to home dyers by marketing a selection of undyed yarns composed of various blends of fibers such as kid mohair, superwash Merino wool, organic cotton, linen and silk.
Varieties containing silk and cotton admixtures gained greater currency in the empire, more particularly after the issuance of the Ain-i-Akbari.
Comparison: History The first attempts to produce basalt fiber were made in the United States in 1923 by Paul Dhe who was granted U.S.
The word "Ghalta" derives from the Persian "Ghaltidaan." which means "to roll." The cloth was finished with hot cylinders to give it a smooth glazed aesthetic.
Material history Fibre-reinforced cement products were invented in the late 19th century by the Austrian Ludwig Hatschek.
The tradition of robe-weaving has a long history in Myanmar; during the Tazaungdaing festival, robe-weaving competitions are held throughout major Burmese pagodas.
Thibet can also be "a fine woolen fabric formerly used for dresses" or a fabric used for suits and coats and "finished with a soft smooth heavily-felted face".
These types of birds have usually a larger wing span (seagulls, pelicans, herons, cormorants etc.) and a larger mesh size (with individual strands being more resistant as it will be installed on a cable system crossing the growing ponds).
Use Ladies preferred plain Ghalta in pink shades, while men favored pale yellow (makhania) in the same.
It is native to North America, where it is widespread from British Columbia to Ontario in Canada and through the central and Great Lakes regions of the United States.
The Rapa Nui people of Easter Island used totora reeds – locally known as nga'atu – for thatching and to make pora (swimming aids).
A 2011 research survey found mist netting to result in low rates of injury while providing high scientific value.
The alkali cellulose is then treated with carbon disulfide to form sodium cellulose xanthate: Rayon fiber is produced from the ripened solutions by treatment with a mineral acid, such as sulfuric acid.
See also Lamé (fabric) Metallic fiber References External links Official Lurex website Other Metallic thread & yarn supplier
Yarn bombing (or yarnbombing) is a type of graffiti or street art that employs colorful displays of knitted or crocheted yarn or fibre rather than paint or chalk.
Just behind the sharp, needle-like tip, is a collar of long thick hairs that face backward, preventing the seeds from working their way back out of the soil.
The appearance on a postero-anterior chest radiograph is of a continuous, irregular pleural shadowing.
In the drier climate of northeast Brazil, sisal is mainly grown by smallholders and the fiber is extracted by teams using portable raspadors, which do not use water.
Persian yarn Persian yarn (also known as Persian wool) is a loosely twisted 3-strand yarn of wool or acrylic, often used for needlepoint.
Elements of the plant are present in a number of place names, such as the Tāwharanui Peninsula and Maungakiekie.
The adult moths emerge from the cocoon after approximately four weeks depending on environmental factors.
Construction 3M Scotchlite Reflective Material is laminated in wide rolls on either one or both sides of a polyester film.
It often extends over the area of an entire lobe or lung, with fibrotic areas involving costophrenic angles, apices, lung bases, and interlobar fissures.
A more prosaic use for the strong Eisengarn was, and still is, for making colourful string shopping bags, which were popular in the former East Germany, and are now an Ostalgie item.
Elasterell (officially "elasterell-p") is an alternative to the generic term "polyester" for a specific subgroup of inherently elastic, multicomponent textile fibers.
Seeing the East India Company and their textile importation as a threat to domestic textile businesses, Parliament passed the 1700 Calico Act, blocking the importation of cotton cloth.
Silk production is a pultrusion, similar to extrusion, with the subtlety that the force is induced by pulling at the finished fibre rather than squeezing it out of a reservoir.
They are used by hunters and poachers to catch and kill animals, but also by ornithologists and chiropterologists for banding and other research projects.
Bolivian crocidolite was used in approximately 13 billion Kent Micronite cigarette filters, manufactured from March 1952 until at least May 1956 by the Lorillard Tobacco Company (now part of the R.
References External links Media related to Hesperostipa spartea at Wikimedia Commons "Hesperostipa spartea".
See also List of minerals List of minerals named after people References External links Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
Having grown and moulted several times, the silkworm extrudes a silk fibre and forms a net to hold itself.
The leaves of Corchorus have been a staple Egyptian food since the time of the Pharaohs and it is from there that it gains its recognition and popularity.
A 1998 study using rats found that the biopersistence of synthetic fibers after one year was 0.04–13%, but 27% for amosite asbestos.
In the 1920s, Bendix owned and controlled many important patents for devices applicable to the auto industry.
The manufacture of basalt fiber requires the melting of the crushed and washed basalt rock at about 1,500 °C (2,730 °F).
Fullerene whiskers and tubes are held together by weak van der Waals forces, and hence are very soft.
The only known species is Lygeum spartum, commonly called esparto grass, cord grass or albardine, which is distributed in arid areas around the Mediterranean Sea.
The letter stated that the Attorney General's office had "reason to believe that the firm may have shared confidential information obtained through its representation of the state.” Several years prior, in 2021, Montana Attorney General Austin Knudsen also terminated its contract with Motley Rice.
Lurex was mentioned in Australian group AC/DC's song Rocker - "Lurex socks, blue suede shoes, V8 car, and tattoos".
References External links The B5 Chair | Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum Vitra Design Museum.
The durability and appearance retention of regular viscose rayons are low, especially when wet; also, rayon has the lowest elastic recovery of any fiber.
Depending on the composition of the fiber, it can be applied to machine embroidery or hand embroidery.
He wrote, in ten books, the history of the Eastern Empire during the Persian war under Justin II, beginning from the second year of Justin (567), in which the truce made by Justinian I with Khosrau I was broken, and going down to last year of the war.
The best practice of construction safety netting is to wrap up the whole construction site from bottom to top, which works as a protection wall to prevent anything from falling without blocking the view of workers on the site.
They are semiconductors and have potential uses in field-effect transistors, solar cells, chemical sensors, and photocatalysts.
Europe and North America both depended on flax for plant-based cloth until the 19th century, when cotton overtook flax as the most common plant for making rag-based paper.
The Environmental Justice Foundation has campaigned against the prevalent use of forced child and adult labor in cotton production in Uzbekistan, the world's third largest cotton exporter.
References External links Official website Libby Chamber of Commerce Cruel story of Libby's lost logging heritage (May 9, 2009) Logger Pride (January 2020) Archived August 6, 2020, at the Wayback Machine
It remained a garden plant until the Dust Bowl era (1930s–1940s), when the vine was marketed as a way for farmers to stop soil erosion.
The architect in charge of the new Lonja was Pere Compte, who built the main body of the building – the Trading Hall (or Sala de Contractació in Valencian) – in only fifteen years (1483–1498).
ADAO co-founder and president Linda Reinstein, widow of Alan Reinstein for whom the bill is named, has spoken publicly in support of the Act.
Bast fibres are soft and flexible, as opposed to leaf fibres from monocotyledonous plants, which are hard and stiff.
Scruggs and his colleagues brought a concerted action, representing several states, which resulted in a settlement of over $248 billion.
On their father's farm, the brothers established the model manufacturing village of South Manchester, with cottage homes, and a spacious and architecturally elegant hall and theatre where dramatic and other entertainments were given gratis, and religious exercises were held on Sundays.
Distribution and habitat It is indigenous to New Mexico, Arizona, Colorado and Utah and parts of some nearby states, in addition to Mexico.
Rayon fibers are naturally very bright, but the addition of delustering pigments cuts down on this natural brightness.
"Knitting but not as we know it", BBC News, Saturday 13 June 2009 Costa, Maddy, "The graffiti knitting epidemic".
Fibrous strands ("crow's feet") extending from the thickened pleura into the lung parenchyma can be often detected on CT scan.
In Turkey and Cyprus, the plant is known as molohiya or molocha and is usually cooked into a kind of chicken stew.
For GAAW 2025, ADAO partnered with national and international organizations such as the Institution of Occupational Safety and Health (IOSH) and the British Occupational Hygiene Society (BOHS).
So is written in a blue band that runs along all four walls of the Trading Hall, also called "Hall of Columns".
Uses Lygeum spartum fibres have high tensile strength and flexibility, and is used for making ropes, sandals, baskets, mats and other durable articles.
Astrocaryum ayri Mart., Toxophoenix aculeatissima Schott) is a palm native to Atlantic Coast restingas vegetation, which is an ecosystem of Atlantic Forest biome in Brazil.
Fiberboard did not have enough cash ready to enter the Georgine settlement but decided to pursue the same type of arrangement on its own.
Cotton is thus of great importance for agriculture, industry and trade, especially for tropical and subtropical countries in Africa, South America and Asia.
Dry fibers are machine combed and sorted into various grades, largely on the basis of the previous in-field separation of leaves into size groups.
Cocoonase is a trypsin-like proteolytic enzyme produced by silkworms (of both Bombyx, Heliconius and Antheraea species) as they near the final stages of their metamorphosis.
Among some tribes, adults wore a loincloth-like pubic covering, which also hung from the waist belt.
Advertising campaigns have capitalized on the yarnbombing trend: Knit the City was commissioned by Toyota to create a 2013 installation in London.
Fullerene whiskers are thin rods composed of fullerene molecules, such as C60, C70, or their mixtures.
This latter usage (in both Arabic and Greek) engendered much confusion among modern scholars of Byzantine Greek, where the Greek cognate of khazz, chasdion (χάσδιον) appears frequently in old texts & well into the 15th century.
However, it does not significantly impact the sustainability of paint since it makes up a small percentage of total ingredients.
The Confederates were beginning the invasion of Maryland that ended in repulse at Antietam, and all available troops were hurried forward to meet them irrespective of experience as soldiers.
Lurex is the registered brand name of the Lurex Company, Ltd., for a type of yarn with a metallic appearance.
Depending on climatic conditions, sisal absorbs air humidity or releases it, causing expansion or contraction.
1861/62 Ueber die Extraction des grauen Stares bei uneröffneter Kapsel durch den Skleralschnitt, Wiesbaden 1866.
Bratton was also a member of the NYAC team in the men's 4x50-yard freestyle relay which finished fourth in the Olympic final.
References Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs worldroots.com External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Gilbert Leigh
Edith was variously known as Miss Spencer-Kavanagh, Viola Spencer-Kavanagh, Viola Spencer, and Viola Kavanagh.
Later life In August 1969, Tidwell was involved in a domestic tragedy that led to the death of both himself and his estranged wife, Karen.
David Hey Bratton (October 1869 – December 3, 1904) was an American water polo player and competition swimmer who competed for the New York Athletic Club and represented the United States at the 1904 Summer Olympics in St.
References External links Profile at doha-2006.com Report at aljazeera.net Report at foxsports.com Report at ESPN.com
Spanish-American War World War I World War II Of the more than 500 major league players who served in the military in World War II, two were killed.
A player who does not bat in an innings is recorded in the scorecard as "absent"; Abdul Aziz is recorded as "absent" in the second innings, with a footnote explaining he was hurt but died.
Baracca had also transferred into squadron; on 3 May 1918, Nardini and Baracca jointly incinerated a Hansa-Brandenburg C.I south of Grave di Papadopoli.
According to Etienne Ugeux's son, this was done by Tshombe to remove Samalenge from his office for a few months because of his "incompetence".
Authorities announced that, while they would file no criminal charges against the party, the group did cause the avalanche.
Sergei Chalibashvili (Georgian: სერგო შალიბაშვილი; Russian: Сергей Шалибашвили; 22 June 1962 – 16 July 1983) was a Georgian competitive diver from the Soviet Union.
His maternal grandmother's father was John Allen Olton who owned the Harrow estate in Saint Philip, Barbados.
She was also known as Viola Spencer-Kavanagh, Viola Spencer, Viola Kavanagh, and perhaps as Viola Fleet and Elsa Spencer.
He began competitive swimming with the Knickerbocker Athletic Club in New York, but the club later folded.
A survey of 2008 Olympics teams, however, indicated that cycling was not even in the top six most injury-prone sports during competition that year.
Mieczysław Karłowicz at AllMusic Works by Mieczysław Karłowicz in National Digital Library of Poland (Polona)
Ngetich set his personal best of 2:12:10 hours when he finished second at the Houston Marathon in 2006.
Yulia Ryabchinskaya (21 January 1947 – 13 January 1973) was a canoeist from Ukraine and Olympic champion.
In 1994-95 he aggregated 1,034 runs in 10 matches at an average of 73.86 with 3 centuries and 4 half-centuries, which was a record number of runs in a Ranji Trophy season.
A UK manufacturer made the 'Welcom' Clem Sohn Bird-Man Glider, featuring "a red suited male figure with fold-out arms" and rubber wheels.
Because the salvage operation on Latham's first Antoinette resulted in severe damage to the aircraft, Levavasseur was forced to arrange for a second plane to be shipped from the factory in Puteaux, a Paris suburb, and it arrived on July 21.
He also wrote a number of songs for voice and piano, setting words by Kazimierz Przerwa-Tetmajer, Adam Asnyk, and others.
Presidential spokesperson Mac Maharaj mirrored this, saying that the nation had lost a hero and that Mulaudzi had flown the South African flag through his athletics.
Nicolae Berechet (April 16, 1915 – August 19, 1936) was a Romanian boxer who competed in the 1936 Summer Olympics.
He was a left-handed batsman who averaged 27.21 with the bat in 28 first-class games and 9.42 with the bat in 8 one-day domestic games.
After the match King played an audiotape, where the late father of the two brothers claimed that King was the more talented of the two of them.
The Violin Concerto was written for and dedicated to his former teacher Stanisław Barcewicz, who premiered the work under Karłowicz's baton in Berlin on 21 March 1903 with the Berlin Philharmonic.
McKeand had attended Sydney University in 1943–1948 and graduated with a Bachelor of Veterinary Science in 1949.
Lord Chesham was appointed to honorary colonel of the Buckinghamshire Imperial Yeomanry (Royal Bucks Hussars) on 19 March 1902.
His father was David Edzell Thomas Lindsay (1910–1968), a great-grandson of Charles Morgan, 1st Baron Tredegar.
Ryabchinskaya also won a gold in the K-4 500 m event at the 1971 ICF Canoe Sprint World Championships in Belgrade.
Louis summoned the Polish prelates and lords to Kassa (now Košice in Slovakia) in September 1379, persuading them to acknowledge Mary's right to succeed him in Poland.
The expedition set off from Lake Victoria in Uganda on 17 January, reaching Khartoum on 25 March and the Mediterranean Sea at Rosetta on 21 May.
The two queens were dragged to Krupa, and from there to Novigrad Castle on the coast of the Adriatic Sea.
References External links Tadeusz Zieliński at World Athletics Tadeusz Zieliński at Olympics.com Tadeusz Zieliński at the Polish Olympic Committee (archived) (in Polish) Tadeusz Zieliński at Olympedia
He was a guy who was as tough as possible, and took his last breath with his bat in his hand, like a warrior.
Injuries to both horse and rider as a result of competition in Eventing have occurred throughout history and around the world, and it is "a sport in which the vast majority of rider injuries are minor and insignificant, but in which the possibility of catastrophic results always exist".
Researchers claimed the deaths more likely stemmed from Bena Tshadi players wearing screw-in metal cleats, which conducted electricity, whereas Basanga wore molded cleats.
On attaining the desired altitude she found that she could not detach the parachute from the balloon.
He and another officer collided violently and Rich was flung to the ground, suffering a fractured skull.
Davie had just become affiliated with kickboxing promotion K-1 and became vice-president of K-1 USA.
She was diagnosed with poliomyelitis soon after arrival in London, and isolated in a local hospital ward, with access to an iron lung.
His senior career started in 2022, featuring spells with Eastbourne Borough and Hastings United before signing with Chichester City in 2025.
Some people claim that the Italian explorer Amerigo Vespucci—after whom the Americas are named—was named in his honor, though there is no definitive evidence to support this etymology.
See also List of association footballers who died after on-field incidents List of unusual deaths in the 20th century == References ==
On 17 September 2016, Golbarnezhad died in an accident which occurred during the 2016 Summer Paralympics' men's C4-5 road cycling event.
I love you man will always love you Champ!" and Mokoena said: "I've lost a brother, a friend, and a national hero!
This has been refuted by modern historiography:Süleyman's mother was actually the consort Efendize Hatun, while Nilüfer entered the harem in 1325, twenty years after Süleyman's birth.
Following the incident, the flag of Iran was lowered to half-staff in the Paralympic Village, and for the Iranian sitting volleyball victory against Bosnia and Herzegovina.
A video of the incident showed Petgrave's left skate kick up towards Johnson as he began to fall after colliding with another Panthers player.
Nacho Libre In 2005, González was cast as the villain opposite Jack Black's character in the Paramount Pictures film Nacho Libre.
In the summer of 2023, Johnson debated between retiring from hockey to pursue a more traditional career or continue his playing career in Europe.
On August 11, 1936 he was eliminated in the first round of the featherweight class after losing his fight to Evald Seeberg.
In an interview with Cycling (now Cycling Weekly) journalist, Ken Evans, in April, Simpson revealed his intention to attempt the hour record in the 1967 season.
Madho Singh II died on 7 September 1922 and was succeeded by Man Singh as Maharaja of Jaipur and head of the Kachwaha clan of Rajputs.
The defenders of Vrana surrendered to Mary, who had been present during the siege along with her mother, on 4 November 1383.
In 1966 he died in an accident, when he fell from a horse during the filming of Andrzej Wajda's film Popioły.
References External links the great white explorer: Personal blog Journeyman Pictures: River People Ugandan rafters conquer River Kagera 14 May 2005
While preparing to receive the next ball, Abdul Aziz fell to the ground and never regained consciousness, dying en route to the hospital.
See also Antonio Amato Salvatore Nuvoli Cosimo Campioto Livio Tesconi Antonio Casoar Gian Carlo Casalini Sergio Tagliapietra Vincenzo Rubolotta References External links Arrigo Menicocci at World Rowing Arrigo Menicocci at Olympedia
2004: Ranked #2 again in Powder Magazine’s Reader Poll, won Powder Magazine’s Full Throttle award, won Powder Magazine’s Best Helmet Cam award, went ski BASE jumping all over Europe, double front flip off the Eiger and got married in Thailand.
In World War II, Jack Lummus and Charlie Behan were posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor and the Navy Cross, respectively.
References External links Media related to Les McKeand at Wikimedia Commons Leslie 'Les' McKeand at Australian Athletics Historical Results
Patrick de Gayardon (French pronunciation: [patʁik də ɡajaʁdɔ̃]; 23 January 1960 in Oullins, Rhône – 13 April 1998 in Hawaii) was a French skydiver, skysurfer and a BASE jumper.
He went to Olpopongi Primary School, but did not go to high school, since his parents could not afford to pay his school fees.
He earned a silver medal at the European Youth Championship in 1978 in Florence, diving from the 10-meter diving platform.
During this flight he took his hands off the steering wheel, took a cigarette out of his silver case and smoked it in his ivory holder, thus creating a new record.
Harry died in 1943 after drowning in the Murray River attempting to retrieve a duck he had just shot.
References External links William Harry's playing statistics from AFL Tables William Harry at AustralianFootball.com
In 1998 Patrick fell to his death in Hawaii during a skydive with Adrian Nicholas using the wingsuit while testing a modification to his parachute container; his death is attributed to a rigging error he made while making the modification.
After losing consciousness and experiencing what appeared to be a seizure, he was taken to Saint Joseph Medical Center Critical Care Unit.
29 March 1912), married on 4 July 1863 Sir William Earle Welby-Gregory, 4th Baronet He died in 1844 of the effects of a hunting accident suffered earlier in life.
He is best known for his role as the elderly-community leader named Tinle in Himalaya, a 1999 adventure film directed by Éric Valli, a French film director.
On 1 October 2025, Arsenal paid tribute to Vigar during their UEFA Champions League group stage match against Olympiacos, with players wearing black armbands in his honour.
Club career Ibrahim started playing football at the Al-Minaa Academy, and was able to win with Al-Minaa U16 team the Basra Clubs Youth League in 2009.
He started as a competitive ski racer but moved on to be featured in a long line of extreme skiing movies.
A rotational fall is defined as when the "horse forward somersaults in the air before landing on its back." This often occurs as a result of the horse hitting the fence with its front legs while jumping.
He stood up after the fight but almost immediately collapsed and died two days later from severe brain injuries at the Kiev Institute of Neurosurgery.
He was shot by mistake by the Emperor when the latter aimed his rifle at a deer and Prince Adam Franz got into the line of fire.
Some say it was Irene Monomachina, a relative of Byzantine emperor Constantine IX Monomachos, or a female member of the Argyros family to which Byzantine emperor Romanos III Argyros belonged.
He had the rooms of Tiengen Castle redecorated and also the Protivín castle converted into a baroque building.
In turn Cortés gave her in guard to Pedro de Alvarado, who quickly and unremarkably became her lover.
He graduated from Princeton in 1896 and became the head football coach of the University of North Carolina football team in 1896.
The dangers of the various sporting forms of cycling continue to be an issue, including training on public roadways.
On 14 March 2019, he returned to Japan where he participated in a shared event with World Wonder Ring Stardom and Tokyo Gurentai teaming with Fuerza Guerrera and Diamante losing to Ultimo Dragon, El Hijo del Santo and Shiryu.
His story was also featured in 2022 as an episode on National Geographic's Edge of the Unknown With Jimmy Chin.
He stayed with the club until 2017, where he appeared in 97 matches, then moved to Naft Al-Janoob for one season.
He was admitted to the Privy Council in July 1901, and also served as a Lord of the Bedchamber to the Prince of Wales (later King George V) from 1901 to 1907.
In the dramatized version, Griffith dominates the fight from the beginning, with the fight ending in the middle rounds and Paret dying later that night.
Gayatri Devi tended to support her step-son and deprecate her niece in the matter of their marital differences, and Prithviraj Singh remained close to his step-mother all his life.
Gülbahar Hatun, daughter of Kötürüm Bayezid Sons Süleyman Pasha had at least three sons: Ishak Bey, Rumelia's bey.
One of his aunts, Louise-Françoise de Bourbon, princesse de Condé, a legitimised daughter of Louis XIV and Madame de Montespan, proposed her daughter Louise Élisabeth de Bourbon, but the marriage proposal did not materialize, much to the annoyance of the House of Bourbon-Condé.
The information secretariat coordinated the Katangese representations in Brussels (headed by Jacques Masangu), Paris (headed by Dominique Diur), and the Katanga Information Services in New York (headed by Michel Struelens), as well as the various pro-Katangese groups abroad.
Whilst batting in the first innings of the Quaid-e-Azam final against Pakistan Combined Services on 17 January 1959, Abdul Aziz was struck over the heart by a slow off break from Dildar Awan.
It was reported that he played in the match amid severe chest pain and died on the ground while fielding.
Ferdinand Maximilian of Baden-Baden, Hereditary Prince of Baden-Baden (23 September 1625 – 4 November 1669) was the father of the famous general Louis William, Margrave of Baden-Baden.
Lee) descendants, Letitia Christian Tyler wife of John Tyler and by marriage to Declaration of Independence signer Richard Henry Lee .
Douglas Dedge (June 18, 1966 – March 18, 1998) was an American mixed martial artist who was the first known American competitor to be fatally injured in an MMA fight and the first death in the modern era of professional MMA.
Shyamji Kanojia (1955/56 – 3 January 2021) was an Indian cricketer who played for Railways in four first-class matches during the 1976–77 Ranji Trophy.
Minkhaung was especially furious that Razadarit raised his daughter, outside of the norms of the day.
On March 7, 1906, Johnston distinguished himself under heavy fire in the First Battle of Bud Dajo, where he was severely wounded.
On the latter occasion, in response to Queen Elizabeth's demand, the noblemen also promised that they would not pay homage to anyone else than either Mary or Jadwiga.
Competition record References External links Mbulaeni Mulaudzi at IMDb Mbulaeni Mulaudzi at World Athletics Mbulaeni Mulaudzi at Olympics at Sports-Reference.com (archived) Mbulaeni Mulaudzi at Olympics.com
1973 saw the first major changes to the course, which include the exclusion of the Promenade at Portstewart from the route and the moving of the start/finish line to its current location between Juniper Hill and Millbank Avenue.
Zhang went on to reach the final at the 2024 German Junior before losing to Wang Zijun 13–21, 21–16, 16–21.
Residents of the area criticized the municipal government for leaving local firefighters without the necessary equipment to control the fire, including tanker trucks and water, which meant that the fire took hours to bring under control.
Adam Franz Prince of Schwarzenberg (25 September 1680, Linz – 11 June 1732, near Brandeis on the Elbe), 3rd Prince of Schwarzenberg, was a Bohemian nobleman from the Schwarzenberg family and Austrian Obersthofmarschall.
Tidwell's form meant he was one of the favorites to going into the United States Olympic Trials to qualify for the 100 and 200 m at the 1960 Rome Olympics.
The act was supposed to be a tribute to Álvaro Bultó, who died under similar circumstances in August 2013.
Richard Clement (10 June 1832 – 29 October 1873) was an English first-class cricketer and treasury clerk.
After returning to duty, Pavelka fought in the Second Battle of Champagne alongside his regiment, also working as a message runner.
After steady rain, the track condition was far from ideal and, although the first 10 competitors finished the race without incident, tragedy struck for Kim, the 11th competitor of the race.
Seven years later he crossed the triple hundred mark again with 312 for Delhi in a Ranji Trophy match versus Himachal Pradesh at Delhi.
All members of the Iranian cultural and sports camp here express condolences to his family and the Iranian nation.
Legacy Former Tasmanian captain Jamie Cox paid tribute to Mason: It is just tragic and ironic that a guy whose heart was metaphorically so big and a man who was so courageous that it was the thing in the end that cost him his life.
In it, Frank cast Griffith rather than Paret as the defending champion and makes no mention of Paret's recent fights or his prior history with Griffith.
Friedrich Alexander Hermann Pagenstecher (21 April 1828 – 31 December 1879) was a German ophthalmologist born in Wallau.
After a brief return to civilian life, he was offered a commission as a second lieutenant in the Army in 1899 on the recommendation of Theodore Roosevelt.
A likeable guy, competitive and inspirational, and one of our true team leaders, and we missed him on the field enormously this season, undoubtedly on the field, but nowhere near as much as we will miss him now.
After studying, he traveled to countries such as France, Switzerland, the UK and the US for thirteen years to cook.
Zhang Zhijie (simplified Chinese: 张志杰; traditional Chinese: 張志傑; pinyin: Zhāng Zhìjié; 30 January 2007 – 30 June 2024) was a Chinese badminton player.
He is remembered for introducing a surgical practice known as intracapsular cataract extraction, and in 1862 he introduced yellow Präcipitatsalbe (precipitate salve) as an eye ointment.
Theo Bellmont hired Stewart from Clemson to lead both the Longhorns football and Longhorns basketball programs in 1923.
See also Rossa Matilda Richter References External links Entry at Who's Who of Ballooning Coventry news paper item
Dickison attended Phillips Junior High School in Minneapolis, Minnesota with fellow future high diver Dana Kunze.
He was one of Orhan's main generals, especially in Thrace, and became known as the "Conqueror of Rumelia".
543–559 Internet Archive Albert Krieger: Zwei Instruktionen des Markgrafen Ferdinand Maximilian von Baden-Baden für die Erziehung seines Sohnes Ludwig Wilhelm.
As part of the investigation, the video footage from Uragallo's cameras were handed over to a Swiss police unit.
Barely two months later, Paret took on middleweight champion Gene Fullmer and was knocked out in the tenth round, being behind on all three judges' scorecards.
With the shah's approval, Luarsab was brought in Kartli, but the local nobility resented yet another Persian-educated Bagratid.
Born in Baden-Baden, he was the oldest son of William, Margrave of Baden-Baden and Catharina Ursula of Hohenzollern–Hechingen.
Glen Carlton Gray (December 27, 1888 – June 7, 1921) was an American college football and college basketball player and coach.
Zieliński died on 26 August 1977 in a car crash, one year after running 8:37.4 for 3000 m steeplechase in Poznań.
Thinle Lhondup (Nepali: थिन्ले लोन्डुप), also known as Thinley or Thinlen (1943/44 – April 24, 2016), was a popular Nepalese actor from Dolpa, Nepal.
The episode, titled "Avalanche", focuses on the aftermath of the avalanche with real audio reporting of the event imposed over a long-distance shot of an avalanche, with no actor for Lindsay cast for the series.
In 1710, he was invested with his apanage, consisting in the duchies of Alençon, of Angoulême, county of Ponthieu and other minor fiefs.
There is a bronze statue commemorating his life and deeds located in the Market Square in Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire, which has Grade II Listed Building status.
Charles d'Alençon, Duke of Alençon (Palace of Versailles, 26 March 1713 – 16 April 1713, Palace of Versailles).
He discovered he had a heart condition and underwent open heart surgery to have a new valve inserted.
In 6 November 2015, coach Yahya Alwan called him in the Iraq squad for the first time in a match against Chinese Taipei.
Marie Louise Élisabeth d'Alençon (posthumously, Palace of Versailles, 16 June 1714 – 17 June 1714, Palace of Versailles).
In the 2012 Ukrainian parliamentary election and 2014 Ukrainian parliamentary election, he was elected back into parliament as a non-partisan candidate again after winning the single-member districts seat of Manevychi.
Reaction and tributes Vigar's death sparked widespread debate among fans and supporters in English football.
It has been argued that Goldstein hesitated because of Paret's reputation for faking injury and Griffith's reputation as a poor finisher.
The multiple-protagonist novel recounts the first few months of the Spanish-Mexica war and features a number of chapters from Pedro's point of view.
Honours Al-Minaa Thaghr al-Iraq Championship: 2009 References External links Karrar Ibrahim at Soccerway
Vasquez was the first fighter to die from injuries sustained in sanctioned mixed martial arts competition in North America.
The School also had several purges, where students were made to stand for up to 15 hours with no food or water.
Mulaudzi was a gold medallist at the 2004 IAAF World Indoor Championships and won two further silver medals at the competition in 2006 and 2008.
This led to widespread conspiracies, particularly witchcraft, which is a major superstition in western and central Africa.
He left Southampton on board the SS Norman in early February 1900, and arrived in South Africa the following month.
As the race crossed the Alps, Simpson fell ill, across the Col du Galibier, with diarrhoea and stomach pains.
Appearing with the Redhawks in a top-six forward role, he added seven goals and 12 points through 21 regular season games before ending his contract and return to North America on March 27, 2021.
Education Emeric was educated in a strict and ascetic spirit by the Benedictine monks from Venice, Gerard, from the age of 15 to 23.
References External links Darío Barrio at IMDb Dario Barrio - photo gallery of Dario Barrio Last picture and details of Barrio's final flight.
At World War 3, King participated in the namesake battle royal for a future World Heavyweight Championship opportunity but failed to win.
(Ava retained a toehold at the Khway-thin-taung garrison in northern Arakan until 1416/17 but it did not send a force to retake Arakan.) Siege of Prome and defense of Lower Burma (1412–1413) Razadarit had regained Arakan but his ally was in trouble.
Adding another 0.1 s for the missing distance to 200 m gives a time of 20.3 s when the then world record for that distance was 20.5 s!
Ferdinand Maximilian married in Paris in 1653 Princess Louise of Savoy (1627–1689), aunt of Prince Eugene of Savoy.
School The two other defunct schools are Saint John's Cathedral Boys' School, Winnipeg, and Saint John's School of Alberta which closed in 2008.
Latham's cousin, René Labouchere, was responsible for the development of "Antoinette" engines, and in the spring of 1909 became the first passenger whom Hubert Latham carried for 200 metres, 5 metres above ground at Mourmelon le Grand.
Biography His parents were Ferdinand, 2nd Prince of Schwarzenberg (1652–1703) and Countess Maria Anna von Sulz (1653–1698).
Richard had three siblings: Reynold Clement (1834 - 1905), Rosalie Philippa Hampden Clement (1838 - 1912), and Helena Rebecca Clement (1853 - 1935).
After leaving school he was an apprentice draughtsman at an engineering company in Retford, using the 10 mi (16.1 km) commute by bike as training.
Career Zhang won the 2024 Dutch Junior International beating fellow Chinese player Hu Zhean 21–10, 11–21, 13–21.
See also List of members of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine who died in office References External links Official website of Ihor Yeremeyev Archived 2014-03-04 at the Wayback Machine (in Ukrainian)
In 1992, uniting the group of comrades from his institute, created a private enterprise "Continuum" in his native village and became its director.
Saint John's School of Ontario (SJSO) was the third of three private Anglican boys' boarding schools in Toronto founded on conservative Anglican ideas and the notion that children were not challenged by present-day society.
List The following is an incomplete list of athletics competitors who died or disappeared during their professional or amateur careers.
In January 2019, he collapsed while playing in a local cricket tournament, and died later in hospital.
Marriage and children He was married to Eleonore Elisabeth Amalia Magdalena von Lobkowicz (1682–1741).
The purpose of the trip was to draw attention to the humanitarian situation in the region in partnership with CARE.
At least seven teenagers died during the fire; another two died in the Cagua Clinic and a tenth in the Central Hospital of Maracay, where one of the victims was receiving intensive care.
Badminton World Federation, Badminton Asia, Chinese Badminton Association and Badminton Association of Indonesia said that they were deeply saddened by the loss of Zhang.
He won prizes for second place in one aircraft (Antoinette IV) and fifth in the other (Antoinette VII ).
However, in agreement with the testament of Charles II, king of Spain, the Duke of Berry was heir presumptive to the Spanish throne from November 1700 until 25 August 1707 (birth of his nephew Louis, Prince of Asturias).
Corporal punishment, in the form of hard paddlings delivered to the student's buttocks, was frequently administered at all three schools.
Clements Joseph Sohn (December 7, 1910 – April 25, 1937) was an American airshow daredevil in the 1930s from Fowler, Michigan, United States.
USA Hockey approved a new policy, effective August 1, 2024, requiring all players and on-ice officials 18 years of age and under to wear neck-laceration protection in games and practices.
Death Rich was killed at Rawalpindi on 17 November 1884, aged 35, as the result of an accident while playing polo.
First to Fly: The Story of the Lafayette Escadrille, the American Heroes Who Flew for France in World War I.
Dave Meltzer in the Wrestling Observer Newsletter commented that Davie's motives for writing the letter "can and will be questioned greatly." Meyrowitz, speaking for the UFC, said the death was "an example of why we have been asking for regulation of this sport by athletic commissions in the U.S.
His death was regarded as a major loss to the community of wingsuit flying, among whom he was considered to be one of the world's best.
Their flag was raised at the medal ceremony with a black border of mourning, and Misáková became the only athlete to ever be awarded a posthumous Olympic medal.
Major Hugh Charles Lyttelton Lindsay, (3 May 1953 – 10 March 1988) was Equerry to Queen Elizabeth II from 1983 to 1986.
Hendrik "Hendri" Coetzee (22 March 1975 – 7 December 2010) was a South African outdoorsman and author.
She has three children, including one son who was adopted by Bhawani Singh and declared his successor, namely: Padmanabh Singh (b.
Death He died on 3 January 2021 at the age of 65 due to a heart attack while playing in a senior veterans cricket match in Virar.
Srikkanth, he remained on the field even though Srikkanth had already arrived on the field quietly, without requesting Raman Lamba to go back to the pavilion.
The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) on 25 February 1991 banned Lamba till 31 December 1991 and Patel till 31 March 1992 from playing in any first-class cricket match as a punishment.
Kaqchikel alliance and conquest of the Tz'utujil On 14 April 1524, soon after the defeat of the K'iche', the Spanish were invited into Iximche and were well received by the lords Belehe Qat and Cahi Imox.
His life was cut short aged 32 when he killed himself after murdering his wife following a violent quarrel between the two.
In April 1873, he was posted to Hong Kong until December 1875 when he was sent to Perak as part of a force sent to end local resistance following the murder of the British administrator James W.W.
In exchange for video footage of their flights, the website provided accommodations and helicopter access.
Written works Klinische Beobachtungen aus der Augenheilanstalt in Wiesbaden (with Edwin Theodor Saemisch and Arnold Pagenstecher).
Achievements All results are from marathons, unless stated otherwise References External links Wesley Ngetich Kimutai at World Athletics
He was educated at Rugby School, and at University College, Oxford, whilst at which he in 1853 appeared twice in first-class cricket for Oxford University, once against the Marylebone Cricket Club and once against Cambridge University.
Death and sainthood The succession plans of Emeric's father could never be fulfilled: on 2 September 1031, at age 24, Emeric was killed by a boar while hunting.
1855), daughter of John Manners, 5th Duke of Rutland, by whom he had three children: Archibald Henry Plantagenet Stuart-Wortley (26 July 1832 – 30 April 1890), married on 15 June 1879 Lavinia Rebecca Gibbins (d.
Background and education Leigh was the eldest son and heir apparent of William Leigh, 2nd Baron Leigh, and Lady Caroline Amelia Grosvenor, daughter of Richard Grosvenor, 2nd Marquess of Westminster.
Clem was badly injured during the opening ceremony of Gatwick Aerodrome, in London, England, when his primary parachute tangled in his wings.
See also List of unusual deaths in the 20th century Ray Chapman, an American baseball player killed after being struck by a ball during a game; he was the only player in Major League Baseball history to die of an in-game injury List of fatal accidents in cricket Notes References Haigh, Gideon ed.
Death On March 26, 2009, Shane McConkey died during a ski-BASE jump on the Sass Pordoi, a mountain in the Sella group of the Italian Dolomites.
He was engaged in agricultural pursuits until 1873, when he became a dealer in and manufacturer of lumber.
1900 to 1989 1990 to 2000 2001 to 2009 2010 to 2020 2021 to present See also Bicycle racing Madonna del Ghisallo Ghost bike Ride of Silence List of doping cases in cycling Cycling track tragedy at Berlin - a tragic incident in which a motorized derny crashed into crowds.
He attempted to set the high diving world record in 1985 with a 174 feet 8 inches (53.24 m) dive at Ocean Park Hong Kong, but fractured multiple bones of his left leg in the attempt.
Early death Three months following the 1904 Olympics, Bratton died on December 3, 1904 of typhoid fever and peritonitis at Chicago's Auditorium Hotel.
He relinquished his commission and was granted the honorary rank of major-general in the Army on 22 January 1902, leaving South Africa the following month by the steamer RMS Kinfauns Castle.
In the triple jump he won the national title in 1950 and a silver medal at the 1950 British Empire Games, placing seventh at the 1948 Summer Olympics.
Richard was employed as a clerk, and then as Private Secretary to Colonel Taylor, at the Treasury, until he died, without either marriage or issue, after falling off his horse during a hunt near Bicester on 29 October 1873, and after a shooting accident during November 1873, when he was aged 41.
The list does not include athletes who died during World War I or during World War II, when international athletics competitions were largely put on pause.
Motherhood Traditional Ottoman historiography wrote that Süleyman Pasha's mother was Nilüfer Hatun, who was also the mother of Murad I.
These falls can cause grave injuries and in the past have resulted in fatalities; such fatalities have spiked in recent years, prompting investigations and movements worldwide to increase the safety for participants.
As a soldier, he saw active service in three campaigns: the Perak Expedition of 1875–76, the Zulu War of 1879 and the Egyptian Expedition of 1882.
Many local citizens and investigators immediately pointed to the Basanga team practicing witchcraft to eliminate their opponents, and this became the running theory in parts of the country.
Ngetich died after he was shot with a poisoned arrow on January 21, 2008, in Emarti, Trans Mara District, becoming the second international athlete to lose his life, after Lucas Sang, due to political clashes.
Death In 9 July 2020, the player's body was found dead inside his car in Baghdad, showing signs of strangulation.
He played at the tackle position for Princeton University and served as the head coach of the University of North Carolina football team in 1896.
A feature of the wings was a device to prevent them from opening out too far and ripping his arms from their sockets.
Within three years, the Prince of Mukhrani would become Rostom's new choice as heir apparent and would succeed him on the throne of Kartli as Vakhtang V.
Subsequently, she grieved the loss of her only son and gave praise for the care given to him in an Edmonton hospital.
Charles James Stuart-Wortley (3 June 1802 – 22 May 1844) was a British politician, the second son of James Stuart-Wortley-Mackenzie, 1st Baron Wharncliffe.
See also Olympic and Paralympic deaths References External links David Bratton at databaseOlympics.com David Bratton at Olympedia
This practice assists in preventing of rotational falls as it helps the legs, even if they hit the jump, to slide over it instead of being caught or left behind and causing a trip or fall.
A wicket-keeper and opening batsman, Abdul Aziz played eight first-class matches for Karachi before he died after being struck by a cricket ball.
This will "enable officials to more easily identify those helmets complying with standards", all helmets must have a coloured tag on them visible to officials which conveys the helmet has been checked and complies to current standards.
Kim participated in the Seoul 1988 and Barcelona 1992 Summer Olympics and also featured in the World Championships in equestrianism.
In 2002, he was elected to the Verkhovna Rada after winning a single-member districts seat as a member of the Agrarian Party of Ukraine in Manevychi.
According to Stewart, Tiny Maxwell and Bob Shiring of Massillon had been solicited to throw the first game by East.
Mieczysław Karłowicz, in Oxford Bibliographies Online, 2018 (http://www.oxfordbibliographies.com/view/document/obo-9780199757824/obo-9780199757824-0232.xml Luca Lévi Sala, European Fin-de-siècle and Polish Modernism.
Because of the infectious nature of her illness, her body was cremated before repatriation and her ashes returned to Prague in an urn.
See also Isten, hazánkért térdelünk Further reading Vita sanctorum Stephani regis et Emerici ducis: ad fidem codicum seculi xii, xiii, et xv; ed.
He died on December 7, 2006, when he fell from his horse during the 2006 Asian Games Equestrian competition.
An itinerant hunter who was stalking games in the nearby desert country mistook Gray's moving shape for game and shot him.
Cobb's brother Reuben Puryear Cobb served as postmaster of Buckingham County in the years leading up to the Civil War and his niece Mary Ann Carter served as Post Mistress of Prince Edward County, Virginia in the 1890s.
He finally signed an Instrument of Accession in April 1949, when his princely state became part of the Rajasthan States Union, initially retaining his powers of internal government.
To strengthen Mary's position against Charles of Naples, Queen Elizabeth sent her envoys to France and opened negotiations on the marriage of Mary to the younger brother of Charles VI of France, Louis, who had once been engaged to Mary's sister, Catherine.
On 5 May 1383, Nwe left his newly wed (and pregnant) wife at the palace, fled to Dagon with 30 men, and seized the governor's residence there.
8), incidental music to a play The White Dove, and six tone poems, which include The Returning Waves, Eternal Songs, Lithuanian Rhapsody, Stanisław i Anna Oświecimowie, Smutna opowieść, and Epizod na maskaradzie.
He was best known for presenting Cuatro's Todos contra el chef for sixteen episodes from 2005 until 2006.
In 1639, he was adopted and designated as heir apparent to the throne of Kartli by his father’s first cousin, the seasoned king Rostom, who had no children of his own.
He was the 13th head football coach at Washburn, serving for three seasons, from 1913 to 1915, and compiling a record of 11–10–3.
During a television taping on 7 February 2009, Silver King turned on his tag team partners La Parka (AAA) and X-Pac to side with Konnan's La Legión Extranjera.
He attempted 4 world records for highest dives from 51.5 m (169 ft), 51.8 m (170 ft), 52.4 m (172 ft), and 53 metres (173 feet 11 inches).
A short time afterwards a number of lords arrived from the Pacific lowlands to swear allegiance to the king of Spain.
Barrio died in a BASE jumping accident wearing a wingsuit on 6 June 2014 in Segura de la Sierra, Jaén, aged 42.
Only four months after her Olympic victory, Ryabchinskaya was taking part in winter training at Lake Paliastomi in the Soviet republic of Georgia when she fell into the water and died from abrupt cooling.
He became a nationally elected Member of Parliament for the CONAKAT party for the district of Élisabethville.
Firefighter units from Aragua, Cagua and the Forestry Unit, state civil defense officials, rescue groups, as well as park rangers and Corposalud Aragua participated in the operation.
He made the wings from zephyr cloth mounted on steel tubes, forming a large web under each arm which was clasped to his hips.
Simpson's last race before the world championships was the Paris–Luxembourg stage race, riding as a super-domestique (lieutenant).
Juan Guaidó, Henrique Capriles, and Guaidó's presidential human rights commissioner, Humberto Prado, sent their condolences to the victims' relatives.
On 14 August 2013, Sutton jumped alongside Tony Uragallo (both equipped with multiple video cameras) in a short "warm-up" flight near Les Grandes Otanes scheduled to last about a minute.
Despite the tragedy and probable liability, none of the parents of the deceased took legal action against the school.
The fastest recorded lap at 127.63 mph (205.40 km/h) was set by Tom Herron during the 1978 North West 200 race.
He also appeared in some Nepali music videos, including the popular "Sa Karnali" by the Nepali band Nepathya.
Thinle died on April 24, 2016, in Dolpa, Nepal after falling from the trail whilst riding a horse, aged 72.
William Richard Harry (30 November 1877 – 21 February 1943) was an Australian rules footballer who played in one game for Carlton in 1906.
He was one of the first people to develop the unique style of skysurfing, in which skydivers use a snowboard to make aerobatic maneuvers.
Death The fatal bout occurred at the International Super Challenge in Kyiv, Ukraine, on March 16, 1998, against Yevgeni Zolotarev.
According to Carlo Huyghé, he went on a pub crawl on the streets of the capital on 18 January and drunkenly confided to journalist Léopold Daffe of the Secretariat of Information the details of the assassination.
From 1990 until 2010, there was always a 125 cc race and since 1992 the North West 200 race has been for Superbikes.
Thompson died on August 28, 2009, while performing a wingsuit proximity-flying jump from a helicopter in the Swiss Alps, when he hit the side of the mountain.
Political career Leigh entered Parliament for Warwickshire South in the 1880 general election, a seat he held until his death four years later.
The oldest of twelve children, Harry was recruited to Carlton by Jack Worrall and made his debut in Round 11, 1906, against Collingwood at Princes Park.
He then moved to near a river in Washington in 1909, before moving south towards California, becoming a migrant laborer and an assistant nurse at a hospital in San Francisco.
The Cobb family secured a number of licenses and permits to control the distribution of mail into the Southside of Virginia from the Federal government starting in the late-1840s.
See also Nodar Kumaritashvili Kazimierz Kay-Skrzypeski Ross Milne Nicolas Bochatay Knut Jensen Francisco Lázaro == References ==
Ferdinand Maximilian of Baden was destined to follow in his father's footsteps as Margrave of Baden-Baden, but he died before his father in a hunting accident.
She represented the USSR at the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, winning the gold in the K-1 500 m event.
After the destruction of Q'umarkaj and the execution of its rulers, Pedro de Alvarado sent messages to Iximche, capital of the Kaqchikel, proposing an alliance against the remaining K'iche' resistance.
Gilbert Henry Chandos Leigh, DL, JP (1 September 1851 – 15 September 1884) was a British Liberal Party politician.
on 16 April 1960 in Abilene, Texas, he ran a 220 yards race in 20.2 s - the course was found to be short at 218 y 10" (199.60 m).
Thompson hosted 30 episodes of Stunt Junkies on the Discovery Channel between 2006 and 2007, and worked as an aerial stuntman in Austin Powers in Goldmember.
Sometimes, the deaths came during competition or practice, while other times deaths occurred due to road accidents or other non-sports-related reasons.
The strike killed all 11 players on the Bena Tshadi side and injured 30 others, while members of the opposition Basanga team were unharmed.
State Representative Harvey Santana commenting on the legislation stated: "The unfortunate events that happened over the weekend kind of catapulted it faster".
During his sophomore season, 2016–17, Johnson scored 18 goals and tallied 37 points in 42 games, finishing second on the club in both goals and points.
A medical school graduate, a piano enthusiast, a former sportswriter, a one-time automobile dealership owner, and a veteran coach, E.J.
Post-election violence in his home country forced him and 13 other runners to drop out of the January 2008 Rock 'n' Roll Arizona Marathon in Phoenix, Arizona.
1965: World championship and Lombardia The Simpson family spent Christmas in England, before a trip to Saint-Gervais-les-Bains, where Simpson injured himself skiing, suffering a broken foot and a sprained ankle.
8 during the cross country stage of the three-day event, Asian Games organizing committee spokesman Ahmed Abdulla Al Khulaifi said.
Dedge was reported to have passed out during a training session leading up to the bout and it is now widely believed (though never officially confirmed) that Dedge had a preexisting medical condition.
Baratashvili, also wounded and defeated, was cast in prison by Rostom, but was later pardoned and, the 18th-century Georgian Paris Chronicle says, Prince Luarsab "remained unavenged".
World War II Vietnam War War in Afghanistan See also List of NFL players in World War II List of American football players who died during their careers == References ==
Samalenge was known for his fierce opposition to the United Nations and his wish for closer ties between Katanga and neighbouring Northern Rhodesia.
On November 12, 1917, while serving along the Macedonian front, Pavelka was killed by being thrown from a horse and trampled.
He was born in Vancouver, British Columbia and eventually based himself in Olympic Valley, California.
Ihor Myronovych Yeremeyev (Ukrainian: Ігор Миронович Єремеєв, 3 April 1968 – 12 August 2015) was a Ukrainian politician, People's Deputy of Ukraine of the 4th, 7th and 8th convocation (non-partisan, Chairman of the Deputy Group "People's Will").
He misjudged the strength of the wind while trying to land, which resulted in his being driven into a hillside.
The course The street circuit is made up almost entirely of public roads (A2, B185 & A29) but does include three speed-reducing chicanes.
In October 2025, Chichester City manager, Miles Rutherford said that following Vigar's death he had considered ending his football career but that Vigar's family had made everyone come together and persevere as a team.
However, some others argue that the expense of placing all-star teams on the field each week also put a damper on the sport.
Massillon Tigers–Canton Bulldogs rivalry In the early 1900s, Stewart organized a pro football team in Massillon, Ohio called the Massillon Tigers.
Following Carvalho's death, Ireland's Minister of State Tourism and Sport Michael Ring issued a pledge to regulate mixed martial arts in Ireland.
Rajesh Ghodge (15 January 1975 – 13 January 2019) was an Indian cricketer who played in two first-class and eight List A matches for Goa between 1997 and 2005.
The Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI) announced that it would investigate the incident, and the I.
Personal life Leigh died in a hunting accident on a shooting expedition in the Big Horn Mountains Wyoming, United States, in September 1884, aged 33, (his body having to be retrieved from the bottom of a canyon), predeceasing his father by 21 years.
Eliška Misáková (12 October 1926 in Kojetice – 14 August 1948 in London) was a Czech gymnast who was selected to attend the 1948 Summer Olympics.
It quickly became apparent that Paret was dazed by the initial shots and could not defend himself, but referee Ruby Goldstein allowed Griffith to continue his assault.
Vigar died on 25 September after suffering a wall collision by accident during an Isthmian League match on 20 September 2025.
His hotel venture failed and he moved through a succession of hotel management positions around Virginia and Washington.
He was a career soldier who served in the 9th/12th Royal Lancers and returned to full-time army service with the unit in 1986 after serving The Queen.
Cobb was last engaged at the Rockbridge Alum Springs Grand Hotel, in Rockbridge County, Virginia where he was accidentally shot and killed in a hunting accident in 1879.
He was accidentally shot to death on June 7, 1921, in Duchesne, Utah, when he was mistaken for a bear during an assessment work party.
The athletes listed here were either professional cyclists, professional pacemakers or well-known competitive amateurs who had a cycling-related death, mostly during a race or during training.
This is a list of players who left the National Football League to join the military in a time of war, including those who were drafted, and died in wars.
Career Born in Muduluni, Transvaal Province, he had his first success as a teenager at the 1999 African Junior Athletics Championships, where he won the 800 m title.
In response, the Badminton Association of Indonesia announced that they would ask the Badminton World Federation to re-consider the rule requiring medics to wait for permission before attending to players.
Luarsab (Georgian: ლუარსაბი, died 1652) was a member of the Bagrationi dynasty of Kartli, a great-grandson of King Luarsab I and relative of the childless King Rostom, who adopted him and made him heir apparent in 1639.
There is also live radio coverage on BBC Radio Ulster and live text commentary on the BBC Sport NI website.
Fire The fire started in Cagua on 23 January 2020, around 13:00 local time (VET), at the Agrícola del Lago reed bed sugarcane plantation, located in a popular extraction zone in the La Carpiera sector, in Cagua, Aragua state.
International cricket One-day cricket Lamba appeared for India as a one-day player in the 1986 Australasia Cup final, when he also took a good catch under pressure to dismiss Abdul Qadir off Kapil Dev, where he played as substitute fielder.
Our hearts and prayers are with Bahman's family, his team-mates and all the people of Iran." Brian Cookson: "Devastated to hear about the death of Iranian rider Bahman Golbarnezhad.
For their part, the motley crew rebels there remained unimpressed by the Pegu army, untested outside the walls.
Biography Cook was born on 1 September 1878, in Ipswich, Suffolk, the daughter of James Wells Cook, a confectioner, and Mary Ann Baker.
He served as an officer in the United States Army during the Spanish–American War, the Philippine–American War and World War I, and received the Medal of Honor for his actions during the Philippine–American War.
In 1856 he founded an ophthalmology hospital in Wiesbaden, and was its director until his death in 1879.
His reported birth date differs according to authority consulted; dates given are 30 July 1881 or 13 March 1893.
"He had, I believe, a wonderful change of pace and an ability to stop short when travelling at top speed, and then sidestepping a tackler quickly.
Mor Mukut grew up in the dusty, walled township of Isarda, a chief of thikana of the Rajawat sub-clan which lies between the towns of Sawai Madhopur and Jaipur in present-day Rajasthan.
Following Rich's death, his widow remarried, to Major Francis Slater Picot (1859–1939), of the Wiltshire Regiment.
Early life Pavelka was born to Hungarian immigrants Paul and Anna Pavelka in The Bronx, New York, on October 26, 1890.
Yutaka Kanai (金井 豊, Kanai Yutaka; 16 October 1959 – 23 August 1990) was a Japanese long-distance runner.
He also made many famous stunts with his development of a ram-air wingsuit, starting modern-day wingsuiting.
At Ava, Swa and his court were grappling with twin problems: in addition to Pegu, their appointed ruler of Arakan had also been driven out of Launggyet.
Adam Łukasz Królikiewicz (9 December 1894 – 4 May 1966) was a Polish horse rider, major of Polish Army, who competed in the 1924 Summer Olympics.
McConkey was known for combining BASE jumping with skiing, as seen in such feats as skiing into a BASE jump off the Eiger.
diving coach at the Edmonton games, blamed the tragedy on the athlete's coach, saying that Chalibashvili had been having difficulty with the dive all week in practice.
He died in 1357, due to a fall from his horse while hunting with falcon between Bolayır and Seydikavağı.
He received an officer's commission in the 6th Queen Elizabeth's Own Gurkha Rifles in December 1991, and served as an Army Officer until 1995.
The highlight of the Kerma Museum are seven black granite statues uncovered in a ditch at the nearby site of Dukki Gel in 2003 by an archaeological team headed by Charles Bonnet.
The shape of the museum and headquarters is relatively simple, with T-shaped wings, each with an entrance.
It has a collection composed mainly of replicas of Egyptian pieces belonging to several different periods.
As a result the source of the pieces in the collection which did not appear in the 1837 catalogue is not certain.
Antiquities from the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam were transferred to Leiden with government support in 1825.
It was the Belize City Prison until 1993, when prisoners were then transferred to the Hattieville Prison In 2002, it was restored and renovated into a national museum.
In 2007, the Abu Dhabi Authority for Culture & Heritage assigned Cultural Innovations to create an arts centre in the Al Qattara Fort complex.
Upon its 100th anniversary in 1991, the museum received the European Council Museum Award, particularly for the renovations made to the lower floor halls in the main building and the new displays in the other buildings.
Building At that time, the possibility of building a museum as infrastructure to house a single collection did not exist, so the municipality determined that it would be located in the house that belonged to Apolinar Jaén, to adapt it to the requirements of a museum that would house this collection.
It is located in a subterranean building underneath the "Plaza de la Cultura" and is owned and curated by the Banco Central de Costa Rica.
One of the chief purposes of Tamayo and the museum was to collect the historic pieces, and to protect them from entering the illegal artifact traders market.
In 1885 his 'house museum' had grown to a total of 19 galleries, the first 14 of which had been designed by Vilhelm Dahlerup while Hack Kampmann had built the last four as well as conducted a redesign of the winter garden.
The oil agreement with the Standard Oil Company of California was signed by Abdullah Suleiman on behalf of Saudi Arabia and Lloyd N.
The grouped buildings are set within a park bordered by the Avenida de Berna (north), Avenida António Augusto de Aguiar (west), Rua Marquês de Sá da Bandeira (east) and the Centro de Arte Moderna (south).
The Bannu Archeological Project is a joint initiative focused on the archeological research efforts of a series of excavation sites across Bannu in Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.
Buildings and facilities The Museo Popol Vuh is one of the most modern of all the museums in Guatemala in terms of physical facilities.
The Regional Museum and Art Gallery of Dilijan is a museum of local history and an art gallery in Dilijan, Armenia.
The museum also received items from the Punic-Mauri site of Tamuda, excavated by César Luis de Montalbán from 1921 onward.
During the interwar period, the collections grew considerably due to Belgian scientific expeditions around the world most notably in Apamea (Syria), in Egypt by the Egyptologist Jean Capart, and in Easter Island in 1936, or by excavations in archaeological sites across Belgium.
The entrance to the reception hall displays charred wooden beams of the roof, which collapsed onto the mosaic floor, destroyed in fierce fire at the time of destruction.
External links Official website in Dutch Official website in English Virtual tour of the Rijksmuseum van Oudheden provided by Google Arts & Culture Media related to Rijksmuseum van Oudheden at Wikimedia Commons
Overview The museum has permanent exhibits of local archaeological finds and on the traditional way of life historically in Fujairah in particular and the UAE in general.
2001 – present In 2001, the Institute launched a two-year Library Digitisation Pilot Program (LDPP).
The National Museum of Anthropology (Filipino: Pambansang Museo ng Antropolohiya), formerly known as the Museum of the Filipino People (Filipino: Museo ng Lahing Filipino), is a component museum of the National Museum of the Philippines which houses ethnological and archaeological exhibitions.
Although completed in 1938, it was hit by a bomb in 1940 and remained semi-derelict for 22 years, before reopening in 1962.
In the early years of the biographical register, it was hoped it could "provide an important record of the achievements of Aboriginal people, and be a source of pride for generations to come".
Thought to be the world's oldest shopping mall, the arcades in Trajan's Market are now believed by many to be administrative offices for Emperor Trajan.
Rifnik Hill (pronounced [ˈɾiːfnik]) is a hill with an archaeological open-air museum in eastern Slovenia.
This last museum has also developed a 'museum-without-walls' through a series of underwater wreck trails.
Casa del Alabado has: Eight exhibit rooms, one room for temporary exhibits, two rooms for workshops, a museum shop and two courtyards.
Like his contemporaries, he did not only value the remains of pre-Columbian cultures, but also considered the pieces from Tlatilco, Teotihuacán and Western Mexico as foundational works of Mexican aesthetics.
The museum's collections range from prehistory to the Islamic eras, connected through a Roman period evidenced by ancient marble and bronze sculptures found in Morocco.
With the acquisition of the Feoli collection, the Martin Wagner Museum gained about 480 new antiquities at once, mostly dating from between 530 and 480 BC and consisting primarily of Greek vases, but also Etruscan ones.
Today’s collection Since 1975, considerable donations have allowed the acquisition of over 15.000 unique items from the ancient Near East.
They divided their work into four main goals, namely archaeology, literature, history and ethnology.
The museum was officially opened on 17 March 2005 and is administered by staff of the Atlas Arqueológico de Guatemala.
In the following years, he served on the scientific committee in Philadelphia and took part in two further excavations in Nippur as well as one in Constantinople.
The facilities consist of a lobby, a patio and two arcades where a mural of the State of Durango with its different areas is shown; the Semi Desert, the Plains, the Valleys, the Sierra Madre Occidental and the Quebradas.
Initially founded as the López Memorial Museum, the institution was originally meant to be dedicated to López's parents, Benito and Presentacion López but shifted to maintaining a collection dedicated to Filipino heritage.
And finally, the third section called "Labyrinth" contains a photographic gallery dedicated to the Old Bridge; that is, to the damaged towers and to the phases of restoration.
The excavations during the building of the Al Qattara Arts centre uncovered a five metre long sequence of archaeological layers, from the last Islamic period to the Iron Age, 3000 years ago.
All images displayed on that exhibition were donated to the Wikimedia Commons and came to illustrate posts of important publications online linked to science.
The Museum of Archaeology (Kazakh: Археология мұражайы, Arxeologïya murajayı; Russian: Музей археологии, romanized: Muzey arkheologii) is an archaeological museum located in the Ğılım ordası complex of the National Academy of Sciences of Kazakhstan in Almaty, Kazakhstan.
Under its first curator, Renato Constantino, the museum acquired the Juan Luna painting, España y Filipinas which complemented López growing collection of Filipiniana books and maps.
The palace proved to be too small and did not have enough storage space, so that in 1937 it was decided that the museum should be moved to the Palace of Culture, in the current building of the Romanian Opera and the National Theatre.
Déri Museum, Debrecen, two mummies – the priest Hor and a middle-aged man who lived during the 18th Dynasty.
The inscription in Ottoman Turkish on the pediments of the gates at the entrance of the museum says Asar-ı Atika Müzesi" (English: Museum of Antiquities).
The MuM Interpretation Centre is an ethnological museum which tells the story of Mostar's religion, culture and spiritual background.
Contents of the collection Today, the collection comprises about 45,000 inventory units from about 1500 mainly European sites, of which about 1000 are located in Central Germany.
Description The statuette of a bird is a bronze sculpture of a bird sitting on a pedestal measuring 17.5 x 12.2 x 3.3 cm, with a long neck and tail.
Collection The museum is devoted exclusively to the art of ancient civilizations from the 4th millennium BC to the 7th century AD.
The collection reflects the depth and beauty of Jewish heritage and creativity as well as the aesthetic and stylistic influences of other cultures in places where Jews lived.
In Costa Rican history, gold was considered a symbol of authority and the items are testament to the craftmanship of the Pre-Columbian period.
The conservation restoration workshop preserves the museum material and organizes the technical days and workshops at the temporary exhibitions in the context of educational activities.
While Rottiers was working in the eastern Mediterranean, Jean Emile Humbert was collecting and excavating in Tunisia.
Iron columns on the roof held curtains, giving the appearance of sails, and stone terraces on the riverbank served as seating areas for enjoying the Nile view, fishing, and leisure.
The design of the new spaces was the work of the Mexican architect Mauricio Rocha Iturbide, who was meant to interpret Diego's initial project, achieving a dialogue between the original Anahuacalli building and the new structures.
Other points of interest The Museum's Auditorium seats 120 people and often houses lectures and other local events.
The original gate was designed by Rubio and Javier Ferrand, and was reinforced after a terrorist attack destroyed it.
Peruvian President Alejandro Toledo inaugurated the museum at the summit, saying "we are showing the world our cultural wealth.
The museum is used to show archaeological objects found in Buduruwagala area and also exhibits relics belonging to Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa and Kandy periods.
1916 – 1918 from a neoclassical design by Canadian-American architect Ralph Harrington Doane when he was consulting architect to the Philippine government, the building formerly housed the Department of Finance.
In 1961 the city of Basel decided to establish the museum to assemble the several antiquities in one place.
The images did not pretend to be the objects, but were objects in their own right and, therefore, able to constitute a collection in their own right.
Archaeological park The permanent exhibition is based on more than a hundred years of archaeological research and is divided into two parts.
The Inca culture conquered all the territory of pre-Columbian Peru where they restored with great political ability the Tahuantinsuyo empire.
Fine Arts Wing The Edmond and Lily Safra Fine Arts Wing reflects the wide-ranging, interdisciplinary nature of the museum's collections, encompassing works of art from across the ages in Western and non-Western cultures.
Exhibits include painted ceramic art of several regional styles depicting mythology, religion with god like figures containing hieroglyphic texts, and often indicating the owner of the piece and the artist.
They include 950 sculptures and Etruscan antiquities that were purchased by German archaeologist Wolfgang Helbig, Theidoit Jacobsen's broker in Rome for 25 years.
The López Museum and Library, also known as simply the Lopez Museum, is a Philippine art and history museum and library.
The piece is of the Palmar variety of the Palmar-Naranja Polychrome type, belonging to the Palmar-Danta ceramic group.
The five most prominent artifacts exhibited in the museum include: The ornate sarcophagi from the Royal necropolis of Ayaa in Sidon: The Alexander Sarcophagus, found in the Ayaa necropolis of Sidon.
The historic building that hosts the museum has been renovated and restored to be suitable for displaying and displaying cultural relics and artifacts.
On 27 May 1991, Sheikh Hamad bin Mohammed Al Sharqi issued a decree to establish a Department of Antiquities and Heritage for the Emirate of Fujairah, including maintenance of the museum and its collection.
The remaining collection was renamed the National Museum of Anthropology, focusing on pre-Columbian Mexico and modern day Mexican ethnography.
Themes include Greco-Roman religion (figurines of Venus, Juno, Eros, etc.), busts of historical and political figures (famously Juba II, Cato), full-size statues (Ephebos), and public life (constitutions).
In 1938, under the lead of the historian Ion Berciu, the settlement came to be managed by the Romanian state under the new name of Alba Regional Museum.
There are a total of ten galleries: Formative, Nasca, Mochica, Huari, Chancay – Chimu, Inca, Wood, Jewelry and Stone, Silver, and Gold and Metals.
It previously was located in Pasig, Philippines at the ground floor of the Benpres Building, Exchange Road corner Meralco Avenue, Ortigas Center.
Finally in 1992 they merged again, creating the current museum, and passing under the supervision of the now extinct National Institute of Culture.
References External links History of the collection Information about Jena's Ancient Near Eastern Studies and the Hilprecht Collection Hilprecht Collection at the FSU Jena
The institute taught a diploma until the first BA degree was offered in 1968, followed shortly thereafter by a BSc.
Islamic period Presented in a dedicated pavilion, this section focuses on Islamic civilisation in Morocco, from the Almoravid dynasty to the Alaouites.
The rooftop (final floor) is a spacious terrace offering a wide view of the Nile, designed for the king to overlook the city of Helwan.
Among the museum's prized possessions are 8th-century wooden panels from the Jami Al-Aqsa and 12th-century (Crusader-period) marble lintels from the Church of the Holy Sepulchre.
Participating institutions included the University of California, Los Angeles, the University of Oxford, and the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science.
In this circuit, a wide-ranging number of pieces reflect various European artistic trends from the beginning of the 11th century to the mid-20th century.
In October 2020, the museum launched the Tamra temporary exhibition (closed in 2022), about the importance and history of the date palm tree in cultural practices and heritage in the region.
Further collections of minerals, slag and other materials provide teaching resources for the study of ancient technology.
The museum was established in 1997 to house the pre-Columbian art collection formerly held by its parent museum, the Barbier-Mueller Museum in Genève, Switzerland, which was loaned to the city of Barcelona.
Others display artifacts inside buildings, such as National Museum of Beirut and Cairo's Museum of Egyptian Antiquities.
At the beginning of the last decade of the 19th century, the museum had the following collections: archeology and ancient history, pinacotheca, natural sciences, library and archive.
See also List of museums in Saudi Arabia References External links Media related to Jeddah Regional Museum of Archaeology and Ethnography at Wikimedia Commons
In August 2003 the National Institute of Culture and History (NICH) was created, and the former Department of Archaeology became the Institute of Archaeology within the NICH.
Other galleries include the Lithic, Vault, Ceramics, Metals, Textiles and Storage in which visitors have the opportunity to view the museum's entire collection of classified archaeological objects.
The museum includes Inca utensils, Paracas textiles, Nazca ceramics as well as a miniature model of the Nazca lines.
The section begins with works in ivory and illuminated manuscript books, followed by a selection of 15th, 16th and 17th century sculptures and paintings.
Through 4000 years of history, from 2000 BC to the present day, statuettes, painted vases, jewellery revive the Inca, Mayan and Aztec civilisations.
The museum also contains a gold-plated metal desk clock, featuring a crystal panel with 12 ancient stones, gold hands, and decorative golden crocodile statues on the crystal.
Dating techniques and chronology Employing absolute and relative dating techniques, researchers involved with the Bannu Archeological Project have been able to illustrate a general sense of chronology.
The first part covers the beginnings of the excavations and the material culture of the Bronze Age and Iron Age from the end of the 4th century BC to the arrival of the Romans, and the second shows renewed flourishing from the arrival of the Romans to that of the Slavs (1st–6th centuries).
During the 19th century, the museum was visited by internationally renowned scholars such as Alexander von Humboldt.
The exhibitions The collection ranges from artefacts of the Stone Age attributed to the Acheulean period found in nearby Wadi Fatimah over items of several pre-Islamic cultures and items illustrating the rise of Islam to relicts from the time the palace was used by the royal family.
The Gold and Silver Gallery showcases the largest collection of jewelry used by many notable rulers of pre-Columbian Peru.
After a year-long period of closure prompted by renovations, the museum was reopened to the public under its current name in April 12, 2017.
Without a fixed location, The collection settled in various places until 1872, when it was exhibited in the main palace of the International Exhibition.
Jordanian period (1948–1967) On 20 April 1948, the High Commissioner appointed a council of international trustees to administer the museum.
Former curator of the Biblical Museum Hermine Pool wrote extensively about the history of the Biblical Museum in: Soli Deo Gloria: Het Bijbels Museum van ds.
A temple dedicated to Aqvon, the deity of the Voglajna River, was built in the Late Roman era, on the foundations of which an early Christian church was later built, and on the western edge of the hill there was another church, where Arianism was practiced.
In a second project launched in 2009, a 3D scanner was used to take advantage of technological advances.
Description The museum contains collections of pre-Columbian art once owned by artist Rufino Tamayo.
Throughout the 19th century, the existing importance given by the European states to historical artifacts gradually began to be understood by the Ottoman Empire as well.
The following is a list of museums with reasonably complete mummies from Egypt in their collections, as well as information on them when applicable.
History The museum was inaugurated in 1888 upon the initiative of the Historical, Archaeological and Natural Sciences Society of the Lower Alba County, having the famous archaeologist Adalbert Cserni as headmaster.
In August 2023, a staff member was fired after it emerged that items including gold, jewellery and gems had been stolen over a "significant" period of time.
Batumi Archaeological Museum (Georgian: ბათუმის არქეოლოგიური მუზეუმი) is an archaeological museum in the city of Batumi in Adjara, Georgia.
When the Wellauer House was extensively renovated in 1887, the exhibits were temporarily stored in the old town hall.
However, problems with the remodeling surfaced, resulting in the viceroy naming Jose Eduardo Herrera to take over, and Peinado ended up in jail.
The display is distributed along eight rooms with eight different themes, which serve as representations of cultural aspects of ancient Ecuadorian cultures: their cosmology, their relationship with their ancestors, their religious ideas and rituals, and their relationship with their environment.
It is currently closed and its official website states that it will reopen if it receives sufficient donations (as of September 22, 2023).
The anchor ends are terminated by a miniature sculpture of a frog that has bulging eyes and a large mouth.
The displays include archaeological finds from tombs at Al Badiyah, Dibba Al-Fujairah, and Qidfa', with objects such as arrowheads, carnelian beads, and vessels.
Today, the parent museum building presents an archaeological collection and collections covering the history of culture, art and history of Istria from its very beginning to the end of the 19th century.
Some archaeology museums, such as the Western Australian Museum, may also exhibit maritime archaeological materials.
Collections The museum exhibits the original works of Hovhannes Aivazovsky, Gevorg Bashinjaghian, Vardges Sureniants, Panos Terlemezyan, Edgar Chahine, Lev Lagorio, and Jean-Baptiste Greuzeare.
In 2020, the collection of the Biblical Museum has been transferred to other museums and heritage institutions.
The two wings are connected by the Winter Garden with mosaic floors, tall palms, a fountain and topped by a dome made in copper and wrought iron.
After these excavations, a small museum was established in the farm house which was previously owned by Mrs.
Analysis of multiple samples found at the Sheri Khan Tarakai site reveal their origin to be between the fifth and fourth millennium BC.
However, faced with the insistence of the municipal government, Buck decided to donate the collection to the Republic of Germany, which prepared to take it out of the country.
It is the building where the Great National Assembly of Alba Iulia voted the Union of Transylvania with Romania.
Due to important decisions regarding costs, as well as for assuring the durability and the stability of the construction, Juan O'Gorman's final solution could not fully adhere to Diego's guidelines.
References External links Geological Museum and Art Gallery on Facebook The Geological Museum and Art Gallery of Dilijan The Geological Museum and Art Gallery on Google map
A lapidarium is a place where stone (Latin: lapis) monuments and fragments of archaeological interest are exhibited.
Due to disagreements between the director and Tello, the Archeology section became independent in 1924 as the Museum of Peruvian Archeology (Spanish: Museo de Arqueología Peruana), while the colonial and republican part adopted the name of the Bolivarian Museum (Spanish: Museo Bolivariano).
In 2018, the arts centre presented an exhibition about fashion illustration, in which it covers the variety of styles used by different designers.
It is the first museum in Peru where paleontological studies of archeological remains of indigenous cultures were carried out.
Gas explosion in the Silver Room On 23 January 2006 an explosion occurred at the National Museum in the Silver Room, which was caused by methane leaking into a broom cupboard from the drainage through dried floor drain and lit by a spark from the power distribution cabinet in the cleaning closet.
The National Archaeological Museum Aruba (Papiamento: Museo Arqueologico Nacional Aruba) is an archaeological museum in the city of Oranjestad in Aruba.
The museum is situated on Plazoleta de las Nazarenas in Cusco's San Blas district, and has on permanent display exhibitions of some 450 individual representative artifacts that are drawn from the wider collection of its parent museum, the Larco Museum in the Peruvian capital Lima.
Such samples consisted mostly of wood charcoal samples found in trenches gathered from the site; these analyses have collectively solidified the site's reputation as the second best dated early village site in South Asia.
Pannonia Reformata Museum, Pápa, one mummy – a middle-aged man buried in a coffin usurped from Hori, a priest who lived during the 20th Dynasty.
The museum's opening was overshadowed by the murder of British archaeologist James Leslie Starkey by local Arabs.
The Tetouan Archaeological Museum in Tétouan is considered one of the most prominent cultural and historical museums in Morocco, as its historical legacy extends back more than a century.
In addition, the museum contains a madbasa, a "date-press" room used to extract date syrup (a method found since 2000 years ago), a 12th-century gold coin, and 4000-year-old palm seed found at the Shamal Bronze Age settlement site.
Location and building design Canberra AIATSIS is located on the Acton Peninsula in a building that was newly built for the Institute and opened in 2001.
See also List of museums in Switzerland Footnotes External links Website of the Bible and Orient Museum Database of the collection Future exhibition project
The Central chamber displays archaeology of the site; at the center of the gallery there is a model showing the entire site.
The modern entrances to Trajan's Market are at Via Quattro Novembre, 94, and Piazza Madonna di Loreto.
The year 2012 marked the institute's 75th anniversary, and a number of events and activities were held to mark this occasion.
The museum was created with the participation of Kazakh scientists: Alkey Margulan, Akay Nusupbekov, K.
History and the building The Museum is in the historic Khuzam Palace in the Al-Nuzlah al-Yamaniyah quarter in the south of Jeddah.
Byzantine and Oriental Christian arts The Byzantine and Christian arts of the East are represented by icons, an episcopal chair, silks, Coptic textiles and ceramics from both Byzantium and Greece, as well as Eastern Europe, the Near East, Russia, Egypt, and Ethiopia.
Mujica also collected over 20,000 weapons from around the world, the oldest dated from the 13th century.
Some of the rooms are dedicated prehistoric cultures remains such as cave paintings and implements associated with the origins of sedentary, agricultural societies.
The Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek is in general noted for its good acoustics, both in the auditorium and in the surrounding long halls.
Fierce fighting took place here between Israeli and Jordanian forces, culminating in an Israeli victory.
The museum also exhibits scale models of Jerusalem during the First Temple period, a Ziggurat at Ur and the pyramids of Giza.
The extravagant architecture of the building is inspired by Mesoamerican structures, with a unique style of its kind that mixes Mayan and Toltec influences mainly, although Rivera himself defined it as an amalgamation of Aztec, Mayan and "Traditional Rivera" styles.
Originally known as the Pabellón de Caza, the work of architect Luis Risso Arguedas and gastronomic businessman Arturo Rubio, it was one of the most popular of its time.
History The museum was established in 1950 with the purpose to find, collect, keep and present the cultural and historical heritage of Mostar and Herzegovina.
In December 1940, the museum was divided again, with its historical collections being moved to the Chapultepec Castle, where they formed the Museo Nacional de Historia, focusing on the Viceroyalty of the New Spain and its progress towards modern Mexico.
Gallery See also List of museums in Costa Rica Museo Nacional de Costa Rica Museo del Oro Precolombino References External links Further information (in Spanish)
The former building of the museum was built in 1926 as a hotel, later used as a hospital and afterwards again was used as a hotel.
Another widely used resource published by Aboriginal Studies Press is the Aboriginal Australia map, created by David Horton.
The Museo Miraflores is an archaeological museum in Guatemala City, dedicated to the display of artefacts from the ancient Maya city of Kaminaljuyu.
This kind of flexibility of presentation tools freed the user from the rigidity of traditional presentations and gave access to the full potential of contextualising information.
Its surface is black, sealed, polished, and split into four sectors which are intermittently decorated with red okra and lit white paint triangles.
Preservation of physical items in the collection is achieved in two key ways: Assessment and monitoring for contaminants, such as insects and mould, as well as any potential deterioration through environmental factors or physical damage.
Soon after, Larco Herrera left his son in charge of the collection and those pieces completed the first collection of what would become the Rafael Larco Herrera Museum.
Exhibits The main gallery displays hundreds of artifacts: ancient documents, idols, coins, statues, weapons, pottery, and seals from across the ancient Near East.
Location The museum is situated near Al Ain Oasis, part of the UNESCO World Heritage–listed Cultural Sites of Al Ain.
Additionally, six Corded Ware burial mounds near Lucka-Breitenhain and one Late Neolithic burial mound near Stobra were explored during 1935-1936 and 1941–1942.
Some branches had to migrate through the Sierra Madre Occidental to the center of the state of Durango where various archaeological sites bear evidence of this migration.
Al Ain Museum (Arabic: متحف العين) is a museum located in the city of Al Ain, in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
Eichhorn also conducted several rescue excavations around Jena and focused on processing and presenting Klopfleisch's excavations.
Trajan's Market (Latin: Mercatus Traiani; Italian: Mercati di Traiano) is a large complex of ruins in the city of Rome, Italy, located on the Via dei Fori Imperiali, at the opposite end to the Colosseum.
Three of these visitors can be identified, including two versions of God N, represented as separate individuals, and a being that is a man-bird hybrid.
Memphite Lapidarium (Mit Rahina, Egypt) See also A glyptotheque, a sculpture museum, usually stone sculptures A Lithotheque, an academic collection of natural stone samples References External links Media related to Lapidariums at Wikimedia Commons
Casa del Alabado is unique in the sense that its display is organized thematically, not chronologically.
Established in 1969, it is the oldest museum in the UAE and focuses on the archaeology, history, and traditional culture of the Al Ain region.
Leguía purchased from him in 1923 and formed, together with the Paracas de Tello collections, the basis of the collections of the current museum.
Examples of this new direction (for a larger public, focus on modern art and travelling exhibitions) are Zondvloed nu (The Flood now), Verhalen van hoop (Stories of Hope), Zie mij.
It is privately owned and run by the Fundación Miraflores ("Miraflores Foundation"), a for-profit organisation.
Exhibits are accompanied by the informative charts explaining the principal historical events associated with the Old Bridge.
At the same time he noticed other archaeological features on both sides of hyrax hill, and in 1937 encouraged his wife, Mary, to investigate these.
One was desgnied for Johann Jakob Bachofen-Merian, the father to Johann Jakob Bachofen and the other for the Swiss merchant Isaac Iselin-Roulet.
North of the museum, there is a small hotel and garden for tourists, and to the south, a cultural centre for Nubian studies was planned for construction.
Mauretanian period: Indigenous North African kingdom; cultural and political peak during Juba II and Cleopatra Selene II.
History In 1969, a small single-room museum was established with exhibits including coins, farming tools, pottery, and weapons.
There is also a replica of a pre-Columbian grave containing 88 gold objects which was unearthed on a banana plantation in southeastern Costa Rica in the 1950s.
Distinctively, the Anahuacalli architecture was as a response to the growing presence of the International Style; O'Gorman realized that his early buildings, influenced by Le Corbusier, were not agreeing with the Mexican landscape and therefore considered them as "invasive species".
The mounds within the museum garden are three of twenty-five ancient mounds surviving from Kaminaljuyu that are located on private property.
Asia Works from China, Korea, India and Southeast Asia allow visitors to discover the secular and religious world of this vast continent with diverse cultures and religions.
This section of the museum was opened on 22 April 1981, displaying a political biography of Bijedić.
It provides a comprehensive view of the history of Dilijan, the historical development of the local people, their lifestyle, culture monuments, and historical and geographical conditions.
When his private villa in 1882 was extended with a winter garden, sculptures soon outnumbered plants in it.
The pedestal is a square column with an anchorshaped base covered in triangular holes and linear patterns.
In 1816 the Koninklijk Kabinet van Zeldzaamheden was formed in the Hague as an attempt to start a museum of scientific artifacts from around the world, based on royal collections and a large group of Chinese artifacts from private collections.
In instances where significant artifacts, like the menorah graffiti and a unique glass vessel by the Sidonian artist Aniyon, were relocated to the Israel Museum, replicas and photographs are showcased.
Tamayo left the museum to his native state of Oaxaca, for his fellow Mexicans awareness of their rich cultural heritage.
In 2019 it was decided to return a portion of the artifacts to the representatives of the indigenous people of the United States of America, with it agreed for some 600 items to be kept and exhibited.
The museum also hosts a temporary exhibition gallery, which presents rotating exhibitions related to archaeology, heritage, and culture.
The museum (along with many other Mexican national and regional museums) is managed by the Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia (National Institute of Anthropology and History), or INAH.
The museum contains archaeological discoveries from stone age, bronze age, Iron Age, pre-Islamic Sassanian period, Islamic and Julfar period.
It is located in the Agrifina Circle, Rizal Park, Manila adjacent to the National Museum of Fine Arts building.
An outside museum was erected at an active archaeological dig site in Nyaung-gan cemetery in Myanmar.
In 1998, the Department completed museum expansion plans with two large halls covering antiquities and three halls for heritage.
300 BCE South America Argentina La Plata Museum Brazil Egyptian and Rosicrucian Museum – Tothmea See also List of museums of Egyptian antiquities Gordon Museum of Pathology home to Alan Billis who in 2011 was mummified in an Egyptian manner.
Sutton concluded by proposing that Site II is indeed not related to Site II and is Iron Age dating to middle centuries of the second millennium.
The museum developed a scientific exhibition, covering the ancient history of Kazakhstan from the Stone Age to the Middle Ages.
As of 2005, a separate museum located in one of Siebold's former houses, the SieboldHuis, houses part of the collection.
Since 1991 - After the Peaceful Revolution In 1991, Peschel refocused his teachings on pre- and protohistory.
A feasibility study was carried out in order to assess the possibility of installing the museum in this tower and on the adjacent area.
The Regional Museum of Ica "Adolfo Bermudez Jenkins" (Spanish: Museo Regional de Ica "Adolfo Bermúdez Jenkins") is an archeological museum in Ica, Peru.
Painters in the collection include such international figures as Rembrandt and Camille Pissarro as well as such Israeli and Jewish artists as Marc Chagall, Abel Pann, and Reuven Rubin.
The museum opened in 2006 to celebrate the second anniversary of the reconstruction of the Stari Most (transl.
International exhibits In addition to its permanent exhibits, the Larco Museum lends its collections to several museums and cultural centers around the world.
Displays The museum contains artefacts of the main periods of the Kerma culture: Prehistory, Kingdoms of Kerma, Napata and Meroë.
One year later the then Municipality of Koper-Capodistria established the Municipal Museum of History and Art (Museo Civico di Storia e d'Arte), and after the First World War the spacious early 17th century Belgramoni Tacco Palace building was set aside for use as a museum.
According to researchers, ceramics found in some sites are said to be almost identical those found in other parts of the Gomal Plain– particularly at the Jhandi Babar A and Gulgai Kot Archeological sites.
They can include stone epigraphs; statues; architectural elements such as columns, cornices, and acroterions; bas reliefs, tombstones; and sarcophagi.
Project for the Museum Between the train station and the University of Fribourg stands a 33 meter high defense tower constructed in 1415, which has been unused for decades.
Among its directors are recognised intellectual personalities from Peru, such as Fernando Silva Santiesteban, Duccio Bonavia, Luis Guillermo Lumbreras, María Rostworowski and Franklin Pease.
Dar Al-Arkan Real Estate (DAAR) have been commissioned to develop the area on 11 October 2008 by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques.
A group of 24 vases salvaged in 1973 from the Hokeb Ha cave in Toledo, southern Belize, was the most interesting part of the collection.
They were joined in 1757 by the "Old Royal Library", now the Royal manuscripts, assembled by various British monarchs.
An accomplished artist, in 2019 his painting Girl Reading the Quran sold for 6.3 million British pounds, making it the most expensive Turkish painting at that time.
The land upon which the museum was built was donated in 1998, and had originally been used for the first seat of the municipal council.
Illuminating the Script – a display from our collection of rare medieval and Renaissance Hebrew manuscripts, shedding light on their history and revealing their artistry.
The Museum of Archaeology continues to work on acquiring artefacts, accepting findings of archaeologists from across the country.
The Museum of the Old Bridge is a museum located in the Old Town Area of Mostar, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Unlike most other such excavators, he did not sell many of his finds, but kept them for a personal collection which is still called the Feoli collection in honour of him.
Most of the artefacts were excavated from Kaminaljuyu during the period 1994 to 1996 by the Proyecto Miraflores ("Miraflores Project").
In 2009, the museum had moved to a new location and was reopened as the National Archaeological Museum Aruba.
In 2012, the museum was unable to reach a purchase agreement with the collection's owner Jean Paul Barbier-Mueller.
The museum presents a panorama overview of Sudanese archaeology, is based on the fieldwork and research conducted by the Swiss Archaeological Mission.The site attracts a high number of visitors, with annual attendance exceeding 30,000 people.
While the museum's emphasis is the history of ancient Near Eastern civilizations, the curators draw attention to relevant biblical verses.
Ceramics, copper objects, funeral urns, intentional cranial deformation, pipes, winches and objects decorated with gods from the Mesoamerican pantheon have been found.
Ancient native tomb Upon entering the museum, in the First Hall, there is a display of the recreation of a pre-Hispanic tomb; it was found and studied 15 years ago by Ghitis Rivera, 700 meters from the museum now.
Cautioning the ministry not to buy at any price, the Rottiers collection was eventually sold for the sum of 12,000 guilders and placed in the National Museum of Antiquities.
Over the years, the wing's holdings have been strengthened through gifts and acquisitions of individual objects, gifts of private collections, and fieldwork within communities in Israel and abroad.
A Very Unique Collection of Historical Significance: The Kapitan (the Dutch Chief) Collection from the Edo Period—The Dutch Fascination with Japan.
ISBN 9789460222535 External links Website for Wereldmuseum Leiden (in English) International Centre for the Study of the Preservation and Restoration of Cultural Property (ICCROM)
There was an increased variety of narrative forms, but, primarily, it was an environment within which students and researchers could construct and explore new ways of thinking about material objects and their history.
Research divisions The Centre for Applied Archaeology (CAA) is a research and support division within UCL's Institute of Archaeology which offers professional advice, support and training in cultural resource management, archaeology, conservation, interpretation and project management.
The origin of the gold Ometepe article opens an interesting topic of research, regarding its origin, meaning, etc.
Collection The López Museum and Library is dedicated to housing artworks by reputed Filipino artists such as Juan Luna, and Felix Resurreccion Hidalgo, memorabilia relating to Filipino national hero Jose Rizal and Filipiniana materials and publications.
Finally, it is worth noting that the area of Helwan, where the rest house is located, was referred to as the "City of the Pashas".
In 2022 the museum was one of nine in Morocco to send some of its objects on loan to the National Archaeological Museum in Madrid for a binational exhibition.
The museum's entrance hall ceiling has ceiling frescoes in the national epic Kalevala theme, painted by Akseli Gallén-Kallela, which can be seen without an entrance fee.
Such collections are often displayed in the outdoor courtyards of archaeology museums and history museums.
During the recovery process, it was mapped identifying location of human remains and the artifacts contained.
Today the Feoli collection is the heart of the Wurzberg collection of ancient pottery, which is the third largest in Germany after the Antikensammlung Berlin and the Staatliche Antikensammlungen in Munich.
van Koolwijk References External links Media related to Archaeological Museum of Aruba at Wikimedia Commons Official website
On a visit to Jerusalem in 1981, he met Batya Weiss who encouraged him to bring his collection of Ancient Near Eastern Art from biblical times to Israel and establish a museum.
The museum contains about 26 thousand archaeological pieces belonging to different indigenous cultures of Peru.
The Al Qattara Arts Centre (Arabic: مركز القطارة للفنون) is an arts centre located in Al Ain, United Arab Emirates.
In November 2014 the Belmopan Business Network said it was interested in reviving the Belmopan Museum.
In 1865, Emperor Maximilian decided to put the Public Museum of Natural History, Archeology and History here, beginning with pieces donated by the Royal and Pontifical University of Mexico and the National Museum founded by President Guadalupe Victoria in 1825.
They were then placed in the custody of the Central Bank of Bolivia until the more than 700 pieces of the collection were entrusted to the Precious Metals Museum of La Paz.
Islamic art The diversity of peoples and cultures that make up the Islamic world is reflected in works from Spain (Al-Andalus), North Africa, the Near and Middle East, and India.
The museum, located beneath the Yeshivat HaKotel, was opened to visitors in 1988 after extensive restoration work.
In 2001, the Dirección General de Caminos officially handed the building over to the Ministerio de Cultura y Deportes.
The museum has become a major cultural venue for the inhabitants of Kerma, who value its role in enhancing Nubian history and contributing to the region's development.
There is also a Sphinx statue in bronze, a golden-plated metal desk clock, the throne chair of Egypt, a winter fireplace, and a peacock statue.
Its collection also includes Tothmea, the only Egyptian mummy in Brazil, donated to the museum in 1995 by the Rosicrucian Egyptian Museum in San Jose, California.
In June 1993 the plans for the museum were settled and construction of the museum building had begun.
Normalized, high-resolution side views were rendered as PNG files and compiled into "fat cross" PDFs.
Valuable artefacts further enriched the rich archaeological collections and a new collection of items belonging to the modern history of the Romanians was added.
Feoli's heirs had managed to gather the collection together immediately after Feoli's death, but in 1872 they had a financial crisis and had to sell the collection quickly for whatever they could get for it.
Interest in the archaeology of this area began in the 1920s with the discovery by a farmer of ancient burials with stone bowls hidden under rocks on the side of small hill to the north east.
The first section, consisting of the Tara Tower itself, contains archaeological objects discovered during the 2002 reconstruction carried.
Muisca museum collections See also List of Muisca research institutes List of Muisca scholars Muisca == References ==
In March - September 2023 the Biblical Museum held an exhibition in Buitenplaats Doornburgh called EXODUS.
Blomhoff collection As Opperhoofd (or chief trader) for the Dutch East India Company (Vereenigde Oostindische Compagnie or VOC) at Dejima island in Nagasaki harbor from 1817 through 1823, Jan Cock Blomhoff was unique.
Borowski heeded her advice, built the Bible Lands Museum and moved his collection from a museum in Toronto to Jerusalem.
Most of the Muisca artefacts are housed in the Gold Museum, Bogotá, the museum with the most golden objects in the world.
In February 2010 a joint exhibition of Koper Museum and several other Slovenian museums, together with a Town Museum Trieste With a Fibula into Fable is being planned.
In 2018, the museum was closed for renovations where it has undergone several phases of development and conservation to improve exhibition standards and visitor facilities.
A staircase in the courtyard's northern side descended to the basement level, featuring a vestibule granting access to a large vaulted storeroom and two additional mikvehs.
Petroglyphs The outer courtyard of the museum displays 16 petroglyphs specimens, found in the area, 13 of which were found in the Maderas volcano, two on the museum grounds owned by Moses Ghitis and 1 is of unknown origin.
The menorah's shape is largely intact, with the showbread table visible to the right, positioned beneath the incense altar.
The museum's fossils were donated by the Ecology Group of Dubai, which were collected between 1984 and 1986.
In front of the testimonies of those cultures, the Mexico of today pays tribute to the indigenous people of Mexico, in whose example we recognize characteristics of our national originality.
The museum is operated by a board of directors of citizens of Guatemala interested in the preservation and public display of the exhibits.
Due to the absence of outside interest, its own privately generated revenue is insufficient for its continued maintenance and operation into the distant future.
During the Second World War, the permanent collection was seriously impaired when many precious works of art were evacuated to Friuli (Villa Manin in Passariano).
The only one of its kind in Switzerland, the museum shows works of art from the Mediterranean region, predominantly from the period from 1000 BC to 300 AD.
History Background Prior to the establishment of the Museum, the British Mandate's Department of Antiquities and British School of Archaeology were housed in an old building in Jerusalem with a small exhibition hall.
Initially the museum included only one of the two Berri buildings, the one constructed for Roulet, the other one being used by the cities Civil Register.
Exhibits in the museum from this era include plumbate pottery which has orange and grey tones and depicted lives of animals and supernatural entities of their surfaces.
The collection of special Bibles has been transferred to the special collection of the Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam.
In 1876, with the support of the prefect of Temes County, the Society of History and Archeology received two exhibition rooms in the Wellauer House on Lonovics Street (present-day Augustin Pacha Street), the museum's headquarters until the interwar period.
History The fort was built in the 16th century, this fort was attacked by the British in 1819 due to allegations of pirate attacks.
Buck rejected the request, so the municipal body proceeded to issue an expropriation order, from which Buck escaped by selling the collection on two occasions, first to his son and then to his wife.
They comprised the most-extensive collection of Mesa Verde items outside the United States and one of the largest collections of native Americana outside the American continents.
The museum was to be primarily devoted to audio-visual displays while a separate building would house the collection.
See also Tamayo Contemporary Art Museum — houses the modern art collection of Rufino Tamayo, in Mexico City.
The National Museum of the Union (Romanian: Muzeul Național al Unirii) is a history and archaeology museum in Alba-Iulia, Romania.
The frescoes, painted in 1928, are based on the frescoes painted by Gallén-Kallela in the Finnish Pavilion of the Paris World Fair in 1900.
When the municipality of La Paz became aware of this, they requested the donation of his collection to the Municipal Museum Emeterio Díaz Villamil, the only one existing at that time.
Many of them are exposed in a permanent exhibition with 57 extendable, illuminated drawers and 6 showcases, offering a significant insight into the world of the ancient Near East, out of which the Bible emerged.
History The establishment of the Society of History and Archeology of Banat on 25 July 1872 on the initiative of Prefect Zsigmond Ormós laid the foundations of the Museum of Banat.
Nearby museums The Museo Numismático (National Coin Museum) is also located in the same building on the ground level and features displays dating back to 1236, including coins, banknotes and unofficial items such as coffee tokens.
The mint was moved to Apartado Street in 1850, and the building was used for various purposes until it was converted to its current use in 1966.
Within a year, the collection had grown significantly and display cases were installed in a small house on the Chiclín estate.
In addition to its exhibitions, the museum offers organized guided tours, walks through archaeological sites, clay modeling, and saddlery courses.
The section of the museum housed in the former home of Džemal Bijedić, the head of the Yugoslav Government who died in a plane crash in 1977 is dedicated to his life.
Many archaeology museum are in the open air, such as the Ancient Agora of Athens and the Roman Forum.
This museum dedicated to the world's past and present cultures is the only one of its type in Latin America.
This is actually a part of the Via Biberatica (from the Latin bibo, bibere meaning "to drink"; the street was the location for several of the Roman taverns and grocers' shops in the area).
The museum is located in Zone 11 of Guatemala City, in the southern part of the area once covered by the Maya city of Kaminaljuyu.
The ethnography collections, which had been housed in the short-lived Museum of Mankind at 6 Burlington Gardens from 1970, were returned to new purpose-built galleries in the museum in 2000.
History Built between 1854 and 1857 as a Her Majesty’s Prison while the area was still a British colony, it was a replacement for a wooden prison nearby.
Temporary exhibits In 2013, Cícero Moraes created 12 panels on facial reconstruction related to human evolution, which were presented in the exhibition "Faces of Evolution".
During the Middle Ages the complex was transformed by adding floor levels, still visible today, and defensive elements such as the Torre delle Milizie, the "militia tower" built in 1300.
Findings of this expedition became the main part of the display during the opening of the museum in 1973.
Mujica's residence is located next to the museum, as is a restaurant since the early 1980s, all part of the same property.
The Djibouti Museum (Arabic: متحف جيبوتي, romanized: Matḥaf Jībūtī) is a history and art museum in Djibouti City, Djibouti.
The Popol Vuh Museum is located on the campus of Universidad Francisco Marroquin in Zone 10 of Guatemala City.
Hasta el contacto Español Pinturas Rupestres Método arqueológico Much of the museum's materials were collected by Drs.
The arts centre contains works by Emirati artists such as Roudha Al Shamsi, Ghanem Younes, Saoud Al Dhaheri, Khalid Al Tamimi, Ahmad Saeed Al Areef Al Dhaheri, Sarah Aladayleh and Maryam Al Suwaidi.
The department also has its own exhibition gallery in Room 90, where the displays and exhibitions change several times a year.
Subsequently, the world's most important Pre-Columbian collection in private hands (according to El País) was split and auctioned at Southeby's on 22 March 2013.
Grimes, like Wheeler a former director of the London Museum, and best known today for his 1954 excavation of the London Mithraeum.
The museum focuses mainly on the pre-Hispanic cultures of Peru but also contains exhibits from the colonial era and contemporary works of art.
The collections were not interactive in the conventional sense, but were interactive in the sense that the reader could also modify or even re-author what had been produced.
It was renamed the Prehistoric Museum of the Friedrich Schiller University of Jena, Institute of Prehistoric Archaeology.
Though he was pleased with some of the pieces, most were hardly special and Rottiers had not provided substantial background information.
It is in a two-story building made of reinforced concrete and accessed through a vault-style entrance.
The first circuit highlights Greco-Roman art from classical antiquity, as well as art from the ancient Near East and the Nile Valley.
As well as directly related information, these Collections also included text, video, and display resources, as well as bibliographies and glossaries.
