She meets several major figures in British history but is no closer to discovering the secret behind the tor which is leeching off her energy and life.
Castillo dresses as Jason during his killing spree, which he is assisted in by a zombie-like clone of Jason's mother, Pamela.
Thus, he signs Emika up for the tournament so that she can spy on her competitors without raising suspicion.
The Moties had studied it extensively and fooled Jacob Buckman, the astrophysicist on the only expedition to the Motie system, into believing that it would ignite in about 1,000 years.
Autumn has begun uploading the nightmares onto her website, but Devon destroys Autumn's computers, stopping the upload and prompting an enraged Freddy to murder Autumn.
In other culture New York artist, Ziemba, released a "sonic fragrance mist" in 2017 named "A Door Into Ocean", after Slonczewski's novel.
Events lead Hideyuki to tell Kaoru more about a research program he was involved in called the LOOP project: a virtual reality simulator meant to represent the emergence of life and how the world most likely evolved.
Dickstein travels to Luxembourg to obtain documentation on all uranium shipments from the EURATOM agency located there.
A novel in four parts "Planet Blue" – Set in a futuristic past where humanity's destruction of its homeworld, Orbus, seems to be inevitable, they discover and terraform another viable planet.
Later, she tells Titus that her feed has been severely malfunctioning, and she may even die, having had the feed installed later in life (and so with greater accompanying risk).
It was first published in June 2001 in the United States by HarperCollins under its Eos Books imprint.
After various plot points, the characters realise the instabilities are actually being caused by the attack of the Xeelee, and the next instability could destroy both Parz and possibly the star itself.
All Tomorrows is written in the style of a historical work, narrated by an alien creature recounting the history of humanity.
Reception Publishers Weekly gave the book a positive review and called it "intriguing." while pointing out that it had a few surprises for a medical thriller.
Jenna confronts her mother, who tells her that Jenna's body was almost completely burned in the accident, and only 10% of her brain could be salvaged.
(The latter was able to occur because the United States were exhausted by a bloody civil war between the supporters and opponents of the Prohibition.) Absolute does more than affect minds.
Her goal is to improve the realism of Zendegi's proxies, computer-generated people that flesh-out the VR's landscape.
Plot The story is roughly divided into two parts: before and after 1927, the year in which it was written.
She initially lives in canister worlds orbiting the Sun in a trojan orbit, where she sometimes works removing bioengineered weeds (vacuum flowers, the space-tolerant flora of the title) from the canisters' exterior ports.
I'm kind of a curmudgeon, really, but I went back into it more positively." Colfer received an initial order of two books for The Fowl Twins spin-off series from Disney Hyperion, writing both The Fowl Twins and Deny All Charges simultaneously.
There the Imperial Commission decides that ships must be sent to the hitherto ignored star system where the only dangerous Alderson Point will appear.
The next day, a meeting with magicians is interrupted by an attack by Grimbold's people, who send a message that they won't stop until Janine is dead.
The book serves as a sequel to the hit novel Warcross, also written by Lu, and follows the protagonist Emika Chen as she continues her hunt for Hideo, a rogue AI.
This science-fiction novella was printed anonymously in New Zealand, and is extremely rare; it now exists only in a single copy in a library in Wellington.
Major themes SLAY has been called "an incredibly raw and real depiction of modern black identity struggles", and is referenced as an example of a novel exploring black girlhood.
Conclusion Giannine awakens in the arms of Nigel Rasmussem, who turns out to be just sixteen - the physical appearance he displayed earlier was actually his uncle's, and he was the physical model for Giannine's in-game crush Kenric.
Plot SLAY tells the story of Kiera, a black high school student who develops and maintains the online game SLAY, a VR multiplayer world where players duel using cards giving them powers based on black culture.
Plot summary Humanity has lived for 40 million years on a planet called Harmony, after leaving an Earth that has been destroyed by human conflict.
These beings communicate on extremely long wavelengths, which are so slow, even S-Space is woefully inadequate to process them.
Ted eventually heads to the Moon in a spacecraft of his own design, and meets the titular character, who turns out to be the beautiful woman from the transmission, as well as a princess of one of the two groups that inhabit the Moon.
Enormous hydrogen-filled creatures known as hylighters reappear, acting as carriers for kelp spores not seen for generations.
As the group tours the estate, Canterel shows them inventions of ever-increasing complexity and strangeness.
Summary Tom Sanders, the head of advanced products manufacturing at DigiCom, expects to be promoted to run the advanced products division after DigiCom's merger with a publishing house.
One-time pad Several of the characters in the book communicate with each other through the use of one-time pads.
Once they enter their imaginary world they are unable to remember who they are, or where they are from.
Between the Strokes of Night (1985) is a science fiction novel by English-American writer Charles Sheffield.
Nasim learns that HCP finally took off in the US and has published its first draft brain map based on thousands of brain scans of human organ donors.
Musician John Zorn named a band and album after Locus Solus, creating improvised avant-garde jazz/rock.
"The Perimeter: After": Molly Cooke, a teenager, experience tensions with her friends when new girl Lulu arrives.
Syrinx travels to the Tyrathca home system to investigate their knowledge of the possession phenomena, and undertakes various other missions for the Confederation.
This divergence has prompted the development of a culture of "Bridgers" who modify their own minds to form a chain of intermediates between exuberant strains.
In 2014 a temporary installation at the Harmony Arts Festival in West Vancouver was inspired by Vermilion Sands.
By humans' standards, a "day" on Dragon's Egg is about 0.2 seconds, and a typical cheela's lifetime is about 40 minutes.
She is handpicked by billionaire Hideo Tanaka, creator of the virtual reality combat game Warcross to go to the game's world championship in Tokyo to investigate a security breach.
"What the Forest Remembers": Charlene Kline uses Mandala to explore the memories of her father Lou on a trip in the 1960s.
Plot summary Simulacron-3 is the story of a virtual city (total environment simulator) for marketing research, developed by a scientist to reduce the need for opinion polls.
She also learns that various pockets of humanity still live, including one led by Ed Creel, which poses a future threat to them all.
Deckard then tests himself, confirming that he is also human but has a sense of empathy for certain androids.
It was published in hardcover in 2003 by Scribner, then in March 2004 by Pocket Books, a division of Simon & Schuster, Inc.
With a second, final test imminent, Blake travels to Colorado with Angela, Forbin's private secretary.
They had originally told Alvin he would be free to choose whether to stay or return, but because the people of Lys had their own insular failure, just like Diaspar, this option was no longer available.
Bill Graham, investigating the deaths of two scientists his agency has funded, discovers that over a dozen scientists who knew each other have died recently, either by heart attack or by suicide, after appearing to go insane.
Riviera flees, and Molly explains that he is doomed anyway, as she had spiked his drugs with a lethal toxin.
Other short fiction has appeared in Interzone, The Magazine of Fantasy & Science Fiction and other publications.
Ione Saldana: known as "The Lord of Ruin", Ione is the granddaughter of Michael Saldana, once the Crown Prince of the Saldana Royal Family and creator of the Tranquillity habitat.
They are not the only survivors, as Ed Creel and his followers have also managed to survive and are determined to take power for themselves.
Since the recording omits most of her memories, she must rely on strangers to help her survive, though she cannot trust any of them.
Her current client is a cybrid (a human body controlled by a TechnoCore AI) named Johnny whose personality was designed after John Keats.
When Kelly's group water land on the flooded Earth, they make radio contact with scientist Thandie Jones, who discovered the cause of the flooding in Flood.
Like many of Nagata's novels, it contains themes of nanotechnology and genetic engineering, as well as government and corporate corruption, in this case as suppressors of positive and liberating transhumanizing technology.
The seven pilgrims intend to travel to the Valley of the Time Tombs, where the Shrike, a metallic creature alleged to grant one wish to the members of a pilgrimage, dwells.
to do it." Writing All Our Wrong Todays was also an opportunity for Mastai to free himself from the limitations of screenplays, and to experiment.
Richards forces Amelia to jump off the plane with a parachute and then uses the last of his strength to reprogram the autopilot and fly toward the skyscraper serving as the headquarters of the Games Network.
A new Tekwar comic book adaptation, entitled The Tek War Chronicles, by Shatner and comic book writer Scott Davis with art by Erich Owen and colors by Michelle Davies, was released by Bluewater Productions on June 24, 2009.
During the dinner party Snow and his guests discuss the limits of machines trying to simulate human thinking.
Alice suggests using the Looking Glass as a weapon to intercept the E-4B to kill Condor and to relinquish authority to the president.
The first three stories follow the character of agalmic "venture altruist" Manfred Macx, starting in the early 21st century; the next three stories follow his daughter Amber; and the final three focus largely on Amber's son Sirhan in the completely transformed world at the end of the century.
"The Perimeter: Before": Hannah, Molly's sister, recounts her mother's feud with their neighbor Jules Jones.
The novel won the 1986 Prix Apollo Award, given to the best science fiction novel published in France during the preceding year, under the title La Musique du sang.
In the later novels, a new version called "SuperTek" has improved efficiency, is less likely to cause brain damage in users, and features a shared reality, similar to the TV version's "matrix".
However, even as Webmind shows how it can benefit mankind, the government believes that it is an entity that should be destroyed at all costs.
They sneak back into the US, and then they meet up with Mordecai, who tells them about Henry Clarke.
Lamia is seven and a half months pregnant with Keats's child, who is named by the Severn personality as "The One Who Teaches." Characters Reception The novel was well-received, with positive reviews from The New York Times and Kirkus Reviews.
Characters in West of Eden Kerrick - The main protagonist of the story, a human raised among the Yilanè but leaves to live with his own people.
Reception A reviewer for Publishers Weekly called the novel a "thought-provoking near-future thriller." Reviews Review by Gary K.
At any time, only a small number of these people are actually living in Diaspar; the rest are retained in the computer's memory banks.
It is in this alternate universe that the events of the previous novels, Ring and Spiral, took place.
The books also allowed her to blend multiple genres, from young adult, to dystopian, and science fiction and gamelit.
Requesting any reports of unusual astronomical activity, they learn that two contacts have been detected leaving Martian orbit and are now heading toward the Earth.
Soon after, he has another discussion with Amano, who knows that the LOOP's creator intends to recreate Ryuji's death.
We can therefore program for massive and destructive exploitation of the system's resources, without restraint, by the probe.
Summary The novel explores the social consequences of the development of a "virtual reality" technology "which enable[s] unremarkable people to enjoy the experiences of those who are more gifted or fortunate".
Ashly Hanson: A member of Joshua Calvert's crew, Ashly is the pilot of the Lady MacBeth's shuttlecraft.
His plan centers on capturing the descending hibernation tanks from Ship, which contain both ancient humans and Earth life.
Feeling in her debt, he accompanies Kathy to her apartment block, where Inspector McNulty, Kathy's police handler, is waiting.
The computer-generated city simulation is so well-programmed that, although the inhabitants have their own consciousness, they are almost entirely unaware that they are models in a computer simulation.
Michael lives on a "Flatlander" diet, meaning that he eats only things that are two dimensional; this began after a period during which he barred himself in his office, eating only what his co-workers slid under the door.
Though there are discussions about liquidating them, a powerful company higher up decides to simply dump them on the planet in an isolated camp as the most cost-effective solution.
Regaining control of the nuclear arsenal, Colossus contacts the Martians, who inform it of Forbin's attempt to use the battleships to destroy the Collector.
The main story is then divided between police chapters as Sue, investigation sections as Elaine, and programmer and gamer geek sections as Jack.
His dying words to the chief scientist instruct her that his real motive for hiring them was to research suspended animation technology.
She became Sovereign by decapitating her own father (a tyrannical Sovereign) and presenting it to the senate.
somewhere in North America – thinly inhabited and with scattered remnants of the Americans having been quite literally bombed into the Stone Age – where Gwendolyn Ingolfsson is ending a camping and hunting trip.
A tie-in to the Friday the 13th series of American horror films, it is the fifth and final installment in a series of five Jason X novels published by Black Flame and revolves around a group of scientists fighting for their lives against escaped convicts and undead cyborg Jason Voorhees.
Major themes Heroes Die contains moral questions the author does not believe typically arise in fantasy.
His distinction between the soul and the human body often lead to reflections on the transitory nature of human beings, and he begins to entertain the idea of life on earth as just a necessary step before passing to a new stage of life.
The author John Macnie (1836–1909) was born in Scotland, and educated at the University of Glasgow; he received an honorary M.A.
Devon and Trisha fail to stop Freddy from butchering the three Mnemonic employees but do call and warn Devon's girlfriend, Grace Simmons, and her friend, Ama Oduro, to destroy their copies of the nightmares while Devon checks in on Autumn.
The Caretaker is banished to the Woods because he still has a semblance of a mind, and cannot be allowed to live within the Town.
Plot Following his divorce, doctor and medical-school lecturer Robert Laing moves into his new apartment on the 25th floor of a recently completed high-rise building on the outskirts of London.
Mastai signed a contract with Paramount to write the screenplay for a potential film, and he submitted a draft before the book tour began in March 2017.
There are two other classes: the "high naturals," who possess such a positive mental makeup that they do not need any therapy, and the "untherapied," who find themselves increasingly marginalized.
The drug creates a simulated reality (and in the films and TV series taps into "the matrix" hyperspace).
"The Mystery of Our Mother": Melora Kline recounts the family history of her anthropologist mother and absent father Lou.
It was a Nominee for Best Science Fiction (2019) in the Goodreads choice awards coming 13th out of 20 nominees.
For that purpose, Ada created thousands of clones of herself and of Edward and spread them throughout the Empire (at that time, it was common practice for parents to buy fetuses).
He was no longer able to shoulder his responsibility as Earth's lone protector from Lunar-launched nuclear offensives.
However, when the synthesists Mordan Claude seeks him out and inquires when he plans to continue his line, he finds himself drawn into an adventure that gives him purpose and also convinces him to continue his line.
To that end, Sharifi Enterprises begins research into an airborne, instantly-fatal biological weapon which can be used as a deterrent.
Using this as a cover, Odin, Foxy and Linda manage to land on the Ebba Maersk and maneuver the ship away from the navy ship and towards a rocky island.
Years before he was awakened, a clone, or "bud child", was created and is now a thriving young boy without language.
A hospital, "The Hospital of the Common Good" in the heart of Parz City, is Adda's only chance for survival.
MacRobert, who has previously refused offers from either corporation, is placed in charge of Independent.
Reception Geekadelphia said, "If you're looking for 21st century science fiction that escapes the page itself, this is it.
References External links Between the Strokes of Night title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
Prin succeeds in getting out, but has to leave his partner Chay behind, where she is tortured, restored to some semblance of sanity, and finally given a role as an angel in Hell who is able to release one soul a day by killing them.
Just as they assemble the team to discuss this development, they are killed by a laser guided missile.
A new alphabet soup of agencies have sprung up, including the Bureau of Domestic Intelligence and the mysterious BuDark.
The story is interpreted as showing a merger between technology, sexuality, and death, and he further argued that by pointing out Vaughan's character takes and keeps photos of the car crashes and the mutilated bodies involved.
This snowballing process is paralleled by the expansion of the book's scale, describing more and more planets in less and less detail.
He is renowned for his consummate skill and unearthly grace but feared and despised for his mixed lineage: born of both races but belonging to neither.
Alice attempts to catch up to Condor during a seven-hour window until the submarines surface to listen for new orders, which is when Condor will give the order for the decapitation strike.
Using the game Spooks as a sock puppet for real espionage missions, Jack and Elaine are sent to uncover the identity of a mole inside Hayek Associates, which is subsequently revealed to be a front for the government.
At his house, Ela discovers that the packet of LOVs has torn and most of them are missing, but a few LOVs are still lodged in her forehead.
Brown announced a sequel trilogy in February 2016, to begin with the novel Iron Gold, published in January 2018.
When discovered, he quickly triggers an attack which leaves most of the people and agents there dead.
Strangelove had been released, greatly reducing its popularity at the box office, given their perceived commonality.
Plot summary Seven years after the events of Heroes Die, Hari Michaelson (also known as Caine) is a puppet executive on the Studio he used to work for.
According to Little, in the context of the turn of the century, knowledge is connected to having a higher social standing.
a rabbit hole of kinky cybersex and multilevel mystery." Booklist writes that author Olson "introduces “Imminent Teledildonics,” sexbots that employ next-gen virtual reality for revelatory virtual sex.
Victor had injected two other eggs with NGF, which were given to two families who work at Chimera through their fertility clinic.
Using a community-created 3D avatar of Roy Merritt to coordinate a counterattack, the holon of Greely is able to defeat the assault force.
They return to the upper world and stagger into a mining camp in California, where they are finally rescued.
James watches a mysterious video in which the Randall's half-brother Billy evidently electrocutes himself, but this turns out to be a ruse.
The novel’s artificial town reflects broader themes about the construction of reality, both socially and psychologically.
The novel Orion has been writing, which in the beginning appeared as some far-fetched fantasy of an interdimensional being who materializes in his universe, overlaps and overtakes the main plot.
Release Wanderers was first published in hardback and e-book format in the United States on July 2, 2019, through Del Rey.
Cemp manages to escape, only to find the Earth now reduced in size and mounted as a trophy inside the asteroid.
He can travel anywhere in the world, and he must videotape two messages each day and mail them to the studio for broadcasting.
The alert status of the Strategic Air Command's (SAC) bomber forces is raised, a standard precaution against a sneak attack.
The movie began production in the spring of 2016 and was filmed in both the United States and the United Kingdom.
Brown announced a sequel trilogy in February 2016, to begin with the novel Iron Gold in January 2018.
Every sentence and every paragraph and page and chapter lead on to the next, but it's just one thing after another, there's no real connection going on.
He is older than most of the other characters, and likes to remind them of his greater experience in the software industry.
Bipedal engineer Leo Graf, who had been assigned to teach them construction techniques, instead organizes them for a mass escape to a remote star system.
The only problem is that it's nigglingly close to the conclusion reached by an author extrapolating from a different start-point: Arthur C.
The adults of the star's most intelligent species, called cheela (no flexion for gender or number), have about the same mass as an adult human.
The novel heavily references Shakespeare's The Tempest, with its remote island setting, its stranded inhabitants, the belief in sorcery and its Caliban character, the unstable acrobat.
The novel tells the stories of George Washington Crosby, an elderly clock repairman, and of his father, Howard.
The work was however praised by Publishers Weekly and the Science Fiction Chronicle, which wrote that it established Nagata as "one of the better hard SF writers working in the field." == References ==
Rong comes under the wing of a visiting Polish professor named Liseiwicz, who recognizes Rong's brilliance and urges him to study artificial intelligence.
First, he looks at things from Ryuji's eyes, then Asakawa, finally settling on a character named Ando, who discovers the truth about Sadako.
His supernatural powers make him one of the strongest beings in the world: possibly the second strongest (after only his father).
When the United States National Security Agency's (NSA) code-breaking supercomputer TRANSLTR encounters a revolutionary new code, Digital Fortress, that it cannot break, Commander Trevor Strathmore calls in head cryptographer Susan Fletcher to crack it.
For example, if a stranger says, "You must obey me," the Sharer hears, "I must obey you," or (the closest translation), "We must share agreement." Their language reinforces the Sharers' inability to accept any situation in which one individual dominates another by force.
The two become friends but WATCH, a secret division of the US National Security Agency, is all too aware of Webmind's existence and is concerned over its potential threat to national security.
After the war, the Fourth Men eventually reach the limits of their scientific abilities and discover that emotions and body are also necessary for complete understanding of the cosmos.
Adam (2010), "Becoming Medusa: Octavia Butler's 'Lilith's Brood' and Sociobiology", Science Fiction Studies, 37 (3): 382–400, doi:10.1525/sfs.37.3.0382, JSTOR 25746440.
The story is told from multiple perspectives, including that of Kiera, her co-developer Claire, who is a computer science student in Paris, John, a professor of African American studies, and players of SLAY.
Plot summary and breakdown by story In the following table, the chapter number (#), chapter name and original magazine date of publication, and a brief synopsis are given.
Reception A review in the School Library Journal wrote "It's a fast-paced book, sometimes too much so.
Jason goes on another rampage, murdering Castillo, and is exposed to the time-space warping drive kernel of a spaceship, which splits him into his pre-cyborg self and Überjason.
Publication Nancy Kilpatrick, author of the previous Jason X novel, Planet of the Beast, had planned on also writing the proceeding book, but Black Flame had already commissioned Alex S.
Some weeks earlier, Frank Hartman, a virologist and soldier, had received samples of a dangerous virus.
Ry Oyu intends to make up for his failure to instruct Patricia properly when she was trying to open a gate back home in Eon; he correctly opens the gate, and bare moments before the Way completely disintegrates around him, finally sends her back home to an Earth where the Death did not happen.
It is about a girl, Leanna, who lives in 22nd century America where human clones and cyborgs are treated like second-class citizens, and what happens when she discovers that her parents are activists and that she is a clone.
Teresa finds she can come to terms with the senseless nature of the murders only by immersing herself in the world of virtual reality—to be precise, the American-built technology that allows her to enter into the frightening world of the Extremes simulations.
Plot The Fourth Expedition lands on the opposite side of Mars and finds all the Martians dead, having contracted and been killed by chicken pox inadvertently introduced by the previous expeditions.
References External links Internet Speculative Fiction Database entry of The Clone Codes Library holdings of The Clone Codes
He described the first novel of the series as featuring a utopian future where Africa is a leading technological power.
When the Somdet Chaopraya and his entourage later sexually humiliate and degrade her, Emiko snaps and kills them.
Afterwards Carmaggio and Jennifer marry and take over IngolfTech, thanks to Lafarge hacking Gwen's records and creating a fake will.
Steve's father, Colonel Charles Logan, reveals that the motivation for the cloning was a "super-soldier" program; Steve was literally bred to be a killer.
"See Below": A series of intersecting email threads between the large cast of the novel's characters.
The novel's title is a reference to a key theme park in the book, which is based on Jonathan Swift's Gulliver's Travels.
Artwork The cover of the novel's first edition shows a high rise in Berlin's Hansaviertel designed by the German architect Hans Schwippert.
Julia begins to display strange and abusive behavior toward her family until she's injured in a car crash, leaving Jack to consult Xymos where project manager Ricky is struggling with the nanobots.
The Clone Codes is a 2010 science fiction novel by American writers Patricia and Fredrick McKissack.
Ballard's 'Elaborately Signalled Landscape': The Drafting of Concrete Island by Chris Beckett at the Electronic British Library Journal
Subsequent dreams seem to be memories of Jesus of Nazareth, something that Tennant, an atheist, finds strange and bewildering.
Believing the president to be dead, a US Navy admiral code-named "Harpoon" is given the assignment of locating a successor, who turns out to be the US Secretary of the Interior.
The corporations that run Earth send actors into Overworld in order to provide the masses of an overcrowded world with virtual-reality entertainment.
Bonner, Frances (Spring 1990), "Difference and Desire, Slavery and Seduction: Octavia Butler's Xenogenesis", Foundation, 48: 50–62.
He is introduced in the episode "Dreamcatcher" as Sir Morgan, a widower with a teenage daughter, Violet, living in a Camelot that exists in a magical reality.
One of the characters is Benji Ray, a researcher who became disgraced after he falsified data in an attempt to stave off a potential epidemic due to unsanitary conditions in a major pork farm.
Profile Blumlein attended medical school at the University of California, San Francisco and worked as a practicing doctor and member of the faculty at the University of California, San Francisco for decades.
Vinge had some ideas for a sequel, picking up some of the loose threads left at the end of the novel.
Minutes before the time of Rachel's birth and the simultaneous opening of the Time Tombs, Sol offers her to the Shrike, who carries her into the Tombs.
Preceded by Red Rising (2014) and Golden Son (2015), Morning Star was published on February 9, 2016, and debuted at #1 on The New York Times Best Seller list.
The narrator grows to love the Librarian while he discovers the secrets of the Town, and although he plans to escape the Town with his Shadow, he later goes back on his word and allows his Shadow to escape the Town alone.
Plot summary Vurt tells the story of Scribble and his "gang", the Stash Riders, as they search for his missing sister Desdemona.
The novel has received critical acclaim both domestically and internationally, receiving praise from literary critics published in magazines such as The Japan Times.
After being bound and interrogated by the Major, who offers to give him his former life back as a detective, husband, and father in return for his cooperation and information, Sebeck refuses.
The debut novel for both Noon and small publishing house Ringpull, it went on to win the 1994 Arthur C.
Like that book, it consists of short, interrelated stories with recurring characters, set at different times.
Although Bachman is now known to be King, he used the pen name for two further novels: The Regulators (1996) and Blaze (2007).
It is the second book in his The Way series, dealing largely with the aftermath of the decision to split Axis City and abandon the Way in the preceding book, Eon.
Small and underdeveloped, bleak and vulnerable, the football pitch doubles as the airport, "the royal palace is heated by yak dung" and the "national sport is emigration".
The author said the stories took their form as combinations of component "Martian pensées" which were "Shakespearian 'asides,' wandering thoughts, long night visions, predawn half-dreams" honed in a manner inspired by the perfection of Saint-John Perse.
Local author Daniel Dw may have just published the novel you're looking for." "Rep Radio" called Propolis, "Beautifully written and incredibly unique with its incorporation of multi-media.
Work Warren began her career as a freelance writer for USA Today in 2007, where she wrote about American Idol as an "Idol Coach".
He also produces the Free as in Freedom podcast Format Each episode generally had a global download count of over 20000 and was often presented with both a serious attitude and a humorous bent.
They also talk about her transition from print journalism to video, and her famous Flickr photos of food.
The show closes with each panelist giving a personal "plug" for their affiliated website or Twitter account.
History The magazine started as a result of a successful Indiegogo crowdfunding campaign in late 2013, which raised over £120,000.
In addition, he is one of lead developers of the MATE desktop environment and the Ubuntu MATE Linux distribution.
TWiT Network Before joining TWiT as an employee, Merritt had a long-standing working relationship with former TechTV colleague Leo Laporte's network, having regularly appeared on This Week in Tech as either a guest or as a relief host.
January 10, 2008: On G4TV's Best of CES 2008, Morris joined the G4 crew to talk about some of the best gadgets seen at CES this year.
On July 2, 2024, Alex and Kevin reunited once more on episode 64 of "The Kevin Rose Show," "The Diggnation Reunion." In September 2024 the first episodes of a rebooted "Diggnation v2.0" were released, reviving the show.
His column "Linux for Suits" ran until 2007, and was followed by "EOF" inside each issue's back cover.
The complaints prompted several rounds of allegation, apology, rebuttal, and edits to the podcast, as well as commentary in various sources such as the public radio newspaper Current.
After 17 years at The Atlantic, Thompson left his full-time role to write independently on Substack in June 2025.
On March 13, 2011, Revision3 announced a partnership with Gawker Media which would bring its most popular websites to video podcasting.
The hosts and guests play the game ahead of the episode, then talk about the experience, the community, and the context surrounding the game.
Listeners have always been invited to support the network by means of an automatic PayPal subscription or one-time payment.
Mann was one of the hosts on the MacBreak video podcast, and a core host on the MacBreak Weekly audio podcast.
Since the new TWiT website was launched, the TWiT Torrent server initially preferred by Laporte has ceased operation.
LugRadio Live LugRadio Live was an annual event organised by the LugRadio team and held in Wolverhampton.
Personal life On October 21, 2010 on CNET's "The 404" podcast she announced she married Fox News Channel host Clayton Morris in an October 2010 lunchtime ceremony at New York City Hall, and would take the last name Morris both professionally and personally as of mid-November 2010.
In November 2019, Manoush Zomorodi, previously host of the WNYC podcast Note to Self, was named the show’s new host.
The first The Tech Guy show produced at the TWiT Brick House was on July 30, which also was the first broadcast from Leo's office set, which was built to resemble the former Cottage studio.
By June 2009, she had 590,000 Twitter followers, 94,000 subscribers to the iJustine YouTube channel, and 25,000 Facebook fans.
The article was solicited as a contribution to a larger work on Current Controversies in Philosophy of Science.
Friedberg joined Monsanto's Executive Team after the acquisition and in 2016 shifted to an advisory role.
He also hosted the show "Tech5", where he discussed the day's tech news in approximately five minutes; it ended production in late 2010.
Thomas Andrew Merritt (born June 28, 1970) is an American technology journalist, writer, and broadcaster best known as the host of several podcasts.
The office has a large mural depicting the formation of an idea, a research library, and giant question mark-shaped conference table.
Producers of Reply All included Phia Bennin, Tim Howard, Damiano Marchetti, Anna Foley, Jessica Yung, Lisa Wang, and formerly Sruthi Pinnamaneni.
Career Writing In September 2004, Mann founded and began the exclusive writing for 43 Folders, a blog about "finding the time and attention to do your best creative work." The blog was last updated October 2011.
In September 2015, Leo Laporte infamously "banned" Dvorak—his long-time friend and frequent guest—from TWiT for comments Dvorak made on Twitter.
David Albert Friedberg (born June 6, 1980) is a South African-American entrepreneur, businessman, and angel investor.
Diggnation announced that it would stop production of episodes from the end of 2011, which caused massive uproar.
Inbox Zero became associated with the Getting Things Done productivity strategy, and is a popular topic on Lifehacker.
That fall, she was a featured participant in the first annual BlogWorld & New Media Expo which bills itself as the "World's Largest Social Media Conference".
He attended Sprayberry High School and studied history and anthropology at the University of Georgia.
References External links Article about Search Engine The Agenda interviewing Jesse Brown about the program's transition to TVO
Launched in October 2017, episodes average around 30 minutes to an hour, each covering a single topic through original interviews, audio footage, and Rhysider's narration.
Each episode typically features three or four commercial breaks, usually in the form of a "live read" from Laporte that may include interaction with the panelists (e.g., Laporte usually prompts guests for recommended audiobooks during spots for frequent advertiser Audible.com).
In January 2022, Abumrad announced his retirement from Radiolab, handing over the reins to co-hosts Miller and Nasser.
It will be co-hosted by Robert Heron who was a co-host on DL.TV, with Patrick Norton, and then remained host for 23 months after Norton left.
The new deal also allowed Laporte to solicit his traditional TWiT advertisers to sponsor the podcast feeds, while retaining his advertisers for the radio version.
Both Dan and Fabian are described as "down to earth, normal, everyday people" by listeners and reviewers alike.
Microsoft's Stephen Toulouse responded in a Microsoft Security Response Center blog post the next day, saying the behavior was not intentional.
Carroll is a vocal atheist who has debated with Christian apologists such as Dinesh D'Souza and William Lane Craig.
Brownlee was a finalist for Best Podcaster at the 12th Shorty Awards in 2020 for his work on the show.
The Particle at the End of the Universe: How the Hunt for the Higgs Boson Leads Us to the Edge of a New World.
As of May 22, 2017, she was working for Microsoft as a Senior Cloud Developer Advocate where she, among other things, hosted This Week in Channel 9.
Its holding company, Revere Digital, received minority investments from NBCUniversal and Terry Semel's Windsor Media.
The popular show Diggnation, also starring Rose, followed in July 2005, forming the first three shows of the new network.
The Star Trek Connection The panelists will frequently remark upon the connection between the Star Trek universe with the film being reviewed, in the manner of Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon.
At 16 he enrolled at Clarkson University in Potsdam, New York, worked in a pool hall, and learned to play poker.
They assert that the universe is "statistically time-symmetric", insofar as it contains equal progressions of time "both forward and backward".
In 1997, Laporte was awarded a Northern California Emmy for his role as Dev Null, a motion capture character on the MSNBC show The Site.
Episodes By November 2025, the podcast had released over 300 episodes, reflecting its weekly release schedule and continued growth since its launch in 2019.
The show originated from the TWiT Eastside studios in Petaluma, California, a community north of San Francisco.
You don't need advertising to make them." In September 2018, Searls spoke at TedX Santa Barbara, giving a talk titled "The Story isn't the Whole Story: Journalism in the digital age is challenged by a business model of automated advertising that creates widespread distrust.
Speakers, in addition to offering informative content, must have made major contributions to web design or development in order to qualify to speak at the event.
In 2012 Timothy Wetzel wrote, "It is rare to find a podcast with four people have this good of chemistry and don't feel like they're trying to hog listening time over each other or don't talk enough.
and their studio is slightly larger than a broom closet and features "kooky" items listeners have sent in, including wedding invitations and photoshopped movie posters with Clark and Bryant's faces on them.
Kristina Halvorson (born July 25, 1971) is an American writer, entrepreneur, speaker, podcaster, and expert on the subject of content strategy.
History How I Built This began on September 12, 2016, as a podcast where the host, NPR journalist Guy Raz, talks to innovators, entrepreneurs, and idealists, about the stories behind the movements they built.
The nomination cited its unusual social media presence, including an event where the hosts accepted phone calls from listeners for 48 hours straight.
Additionally, upwards of 80 percent of listeners reported that the program's pace was exciting, and over 80 percent reported that the layering of interviews was engaging.
The first Peabody was awarded to the show overall, and the second was awarded for the episode titled "60 Words" (aired on April 18, 2014) garnered a second Peabody Award for Radiolab.
History The original version of Radiolab was a three-hour weekly show on New York City radio station WNYC's AM signal.
LugRadio Live UK 2008 took place on the weekend of 19 July 2008 at the Light House Media Centre in Wolverhampton.
The program was formerly known as Call for Help when it was recorded in the US and Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
The process involves recordings made by each presenter on their local machine in FLAC format using the software Audio Recorder.
Tech News Today was the recipient of the 2012 International Academy of Web Television award for Best News Web Series.
On August 18, 2009, Mann announced that he was writing a book, to be entitled Inbox Zero, about "how to reclaim your email, your attention, and your life." In 2011, he announced that he was abandoning the project.
Ohalo Ohalo Genetics, a plant breeding company incubated by The Production Board in 2019, develops breeding systems and new crop varieties intended to raise yields while using fewer natural resources.
Though the audio production company Defacto Sound, which is owned by Taylor, is the production headquarters for Twenty Thousand Hertz, he has said that the podcast is not intended as content marketing.
Collaborative efforts have been used in the past to rewrite the show's sign-off for grammar concerns and to redesign its logo.
He appeared on Marketwatch TV and This Week in Tech, a podcast audio and now video program hosted by Leo Laporte and featuring other former TechTV personalities such as Patrick Norton, Kevin Rose, and Robert Heron.
After graduate school, Morris took a year sabbatical and taught yoga at Canyon Ranch SpaClub at The Venetian in Las Vegas, Nevada.
The finalist entries are Brown's essay on Zeitgeist, the Movie nominated in the editorial/viewpoint category and documentary on Shannen Rossmiller, the housewife turned online terrorist hunter nominated in the community/portrait category.
In recent years Martin has worked with large scale Linux infrastructure and the transmission and analytics of Black box flight data.
The Talk Show The Talk Show is a technology podcast started by Gruber intended as a "director's commentary" to Daring Fireball.
Merritt appeared in two early episodes of his Frame Rate co-host Brian Brushwood's Revision3 show Scam School.
In 2018, he became the host of the technology and science podcast Crazy/Genius, which was nominated for an iHeartMedia Best Podcast Award in its first year.
History Reply All was an American podcast from Gimlet Media, hosted by Alex Goldman and PJ Vogt, with Emmanuel Dzotsi joining on as a host in October 2020.
He had been working on the application since fall 2012, and publicly announced it at the XOXO festival in September 2013.
Davies of The Guardian called it "perhaps the best-ever episode of any podcast" and "an incredibly emotive piece of storytelling." See also Internet culture List of technology podcasts References External links Official website
Focusing on video in its many and varied forms (television, film, Internet), Merritt co-hosted the show with the magician and NSFW podcast host Brian Brushwood.
He has received the title of Kentucky Colonel, the highest title of honor awarded by the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
He said on show #600 of No Agenda that he occasionally posts online under the pseudonym Mark Pugner.
I’ll be editorial director of the new Yahoo Tech site..." Star Trek book As a young man, Needleman wrote the book The Official Star Trek Trivia Book which was published by Pocket Books.
Sites said she was "the star of this network so far," and said "she has model good looks and easy cyber savvyness that attracts both technophiles and casual users alike." The final cut of the interview video included footage from the live web cast of the interview showing Ezarik's webcam viewpoint.
They became fast friends and began collaborating as co-hosts on experimental radio pieces — initially outside of Radiolab.
Alan became an Ubuntu member in 2006 and has in the past been the contact person for the UK LoCo team, a member of the LoCo Council and a member of the EMEA Membership board and the Community Council.
Background Marques Brownlee, creator of the technology-focused MKBHD YouTube channel, launched Waveform in 2019 to provide additional commentary beyond his video content, including behind-the-scenes insights and more informal discussion.
Heather's Hole, in which Heather Anne Campbell reaches into "the deep, gaping maw that is her video game collection", and retrieves a lesser known title, gaming system or piece of gaming memorabilia to discuss.
Episodes of Twenty Thousand Hertz have also been featured on the Radiotopia productions 99% Invisible and The Allusionist.
History Leo Laporte has been doing one version or another of his technology talk show since 1990, including a syndicated show originating from KGO.
The show had several occasional features that were periodically played: The Best of Craigslist: Craigslist CEO Jim Buckmaster reading selected outlandish posts from his company's site.
The show has had a number of famous guests, including Steve Wozniak, Kevin Mitnick, John Hodgman, Lawrence Lessig, artist Roger McGuinn, as well as Star Trek: The Next Generation cast members LeVar Burton (Geordi La Forge) and Wil Wheaton (Wesley Crusher).
References External links Justine Ezarik's channel on YouTube Justine Ezarik at IMDb Justine Ezarik discography at Discogs
References External links Tom Merritt.com SubBrilliant News East Meets West Podcast with Roger Chang The Sword & Laser Podcast with Veronica Belmont The Current Geek & Current Geek Weekly Podcast with Scott Johnson Tom Merritt at IMDb The Real Deal column The Real Deal podcast
She also did work in robotics engineering at IBM, Morton Thiokol, United Technologies/Pratt & Whitney, Lockheed-Martin, Rolls-Royce, and the US Navy.
It was a Linux, Free Software and Open Source event intended to be fun, without the corporate agenda held by other commercial events.
Annie Kelly acts as the podcast's United Kingdom correspondent and joined the podcast as the conspiracy theory spread from the United States to other countries, such as when it was accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic.
References External links Official ABC page Marc Fennell's Download This Show page Rae Johnston’s official website
In 2019, the podcast featured interviews with national politicians, including House Representative for Massachusetts Seth Moulton and Idaho Senator Mike Crapo.
The process of starting their company is documented in the podcast ZigZag, which is also their first production.
This was followed up a year later on April 13, 2012 by io9 with a Tekzilla-like show called "We Come from the Future", where the editors of io9 discuss the latest news in science and sci-fi.
In 2017, Carroll presented an argument for rejecting certain cosmological models, including those with Boltzmann brains, on the basis that they are cognitively unstable: they cannot simultaneously be true and justifiably believed.
Before she began hosting Note to Self, Zomorodi was a television reporter for the British Broadcasting Corporation.
He was "fascinated" by the many unexpected outcomes, such as "the impact of the fridge on global politics, or of the gramophone on income inequality." Towards the end of the first series, a public call was made for suggestions of a "51st thing".
Most episodes end with listener mail, although there is an occasional segment known as "Administrative Details." Listener mail debuted on November 25, 2008, in the episode named "How Albert Einstein's Brain Worked".
Overview Searls' journalism career began in 1971, when he worked as an editor and photographer for Wayne Today in New Jersey.
In later episodes the question would be posed by the merchant from Resident Evil 4, voiced by Campbell.
Search Engine was a weekly Canadian radio show that aired on CBC Radio One, then as a dedicated podcast distributed by the CBC and finally by TVOntario.
The show has focused on stories involving copyright, video games, and China, as well as the social impact and technology surrounding them.
which debuted on May 17, 2017 and produced by Tinkercast, LLC, a company established by Thomas and Raz to produce children's audio., and distributed by Wondery.
Reception Waveform has ranked among the top technology podcasts on platforms such as Apple Podcasts.
In 2015, a virtual reality blog called Road to VR started to syndicate all future episodes of the Voices of VR podcast on their website.
Subjects of Focus Canadian Copyright As well as in regular contributions from Cory Doctorow, Brown focused on the issues surrounding Canadian copyright.
In addition to these regular shows, Merritt hosted live breaking news coverage of major technology events on TWiT's live stream such as WWDC, Google I/O and the resignation and death of Steve Jobs.
In the early years, the site included a humorous treatise on Lawrence Welk, free icons and backgrounds for visitors to use, and a web design tutorial titled "Ask Dr.
After the first eleven episodes over the course of two weeks in November 2008, the series only registered a total of 31,000 views according to Tubemogul.
2009: Streamy Award for Best Hosted Web Series (nomination) 2010: Streamy Award for Best Hosted Web Series (won) Other shows A spin-off show, The Digg Reel ran from January 2008 to September 2010, and was originally hosted by Jessica Corbin, followed by Andrew Bancroft.
The podcast focuses on consumer electronics news, industry trends, and discussions related to videos published on Brownlee's YouTube channel.
These connections are normally an actor that has appeared in any of the Star Trek series (from the Original Series to Enterprise) or any of the eleven films.
Format Leo Laporte typically begins an episode of TWiT by stating the show's number, title, sponsors and playing the theme tune, then introducing the week's panelists and guests.
On April 16, 2010, Merritt announced that he would be stepping down as co-host of Buzz Out Loud, and that he would be joining the TWiT.
It describes the hunt for and discovery of the Higgs boson at the Large Hadron Collider at CERN and was the 2013 winner of the Royal Society Winton Prize for Science Books.
Reunion and revival On October 13, 2017, Rose and Albrecht released a "light Diggnation reunion" under the title of "Talking Tech", released within "The Kevin Rose Show" podcast.
It is co-hosted by Travis View (real name: Logan Strain), Julian Feeld, and Jake Rockatansky, alongside Annie Kelly (British correspondent), Liv Agar (Canadian correspondent), Brad Abrahams (Inner Earth correspondent), and Allie Mezei (QAA Legal Analyst).
Crowley with a theme song and score composed by The Henry Clay People, the "unofficial house band" of Stuff You Should Know.
In October 2013, Monsanto announced that it was acquiring The Climate Corporation for about $1.1 billion.
Live chat A public Internet Relay Chat ran while the show aired live on the server irc.twit.tv in the #twitlive channel.
In several episodes, Laporte has noted that the distributed nature of BitTorrent makes it impossible to accurately gauge the popularity of the show, decreasing the likelihood of attracting advertisers.
They discussed consciousness, the many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics, the arrow of time, free will, facts and values, and other topics including moral realism.
Since the 2020s, RadioTux has continued its presence at national and international open-source conferences.
Topics and content RadioTux focuses on developments within the Linux and open-source ecosystem, free-software community news and interviews with notable figures such as Mark Shuttleworth, Richard Stallman and Klaus Knopper.
Mossberg left The Wall Street Journal at the end of the year, leaving behind a popular, weekly technology column.
Other episodes that year featured discussions with members of the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission.
On February 1, 2012, Morris announced Disney Cruise Line would be releasing videos featuring her as the host.
Shows The TWiT Network is host to the following shows Litigation In May 2017, Twitter announced that it would deliver original video content on its platform.
Philosophical and religious views Carroll, while raised as an Episcopalian, is an atheist, or as he calls it, a "poetic naturalist".
However, due to ongoing costs as a result of TWiT.tv's constant expansion, a roadmap for the introduction of podcast and web-based advertising was announced during episode 45 of This WEEK in TECH.
Producers In addition to Nora Young, producers included Michelle Parise, Adam Killick, Kent Hoffman Dan Misener, Elizabeth Bowie and Carma Jolly.
Each 30-minute episode features panel discussions and interviews with industry guests who discuss topics such as social media, streaming platforms, online privacy, and video games.
Leo Laporte (; born November 29, 1956) is the former host of The Tech Guy weekly radio show and founder of TWiT.tv, an Internet podcast network focusing on technology.
The podcast covered a range of topics ranging from information overload and digital clutter, to sexting, and the eavesdropping capabilities of our gadgets.
Waveform: The MKBHD Podcast (also referred to as Waveform or WVFRM) is a technology podcast hosted by American YouTuber Marques Brownlee, alongside Andrew Manganelli and David Imel.
The majority of the episode is dedicated to Rose and Albrecht discussing news items as well as providing personal commentary, anecdotes and unrelated banter.
See also Category:Lists of inventions or discoveries A History of the World in 100 Objects List of business and finance podcasts References External links Official website BBC World Service episode guide Financial Times review of podcast
aggregators such as Google and Facebook) come to dominate the industries in which they compete in a systematic and predictable way.
He occasionally talks about his experiences with ADHD on his Back to Work podcast on the 5by5 network.
Recognition and awards In 2012, iTunes Australia named Download This Show the best new podcast, and it has won Best Audio Program at the Australian IT Journalism Awards ("The Lizzies") many times.
Since September 2009, Dvorak has hosted the DH Unplugged podcast with personal money manager Andrew Horowitz.
TWiT founder and owner Leo Laporte, in an October 2009 speech, stated that it grossed revenues of $1.5 million per year, while costs were around $350,000.
Originally mentioning it on one show, he soon realized that many listeners were interested in the issue.
Criticism of new technology On February 19, 1984, in an article in The San Francisco Examiner, Dvorak listed the mouse as a reason the Macintosh computer might not be successful: "The Macintosh uses an experimental pointing device called a ‘mouse’.
In more recent episodes viewers were urged to upload video questions on YouTube; building on this Roger Chang mentioned during one of the 2008 live shows that he thought having live Skype calls would be a good addition to the show.
Mossberg and Swisher planned to continue their prominent, annual All Things Digital conference, which they renamed the "Code" conference and scheduled for the same time and location: late May at Terranea Resort in Rancho Palos Verdes, California.
Tekzilla Tekzilla was an American video podcast on the Revision3 network (Tekzilla was released every Tuesday).
References External links 5by5 fireside.fm Hivelogic Bacon Method Cork'd PeepCode Playgrounder Dan Benjamin on 5by5 Archived May 8, 2014, at the Wayback Machine Interview with Dan about his Network Creation Archived March 30, 2019, at the Wayback Machine
On April 21, 2008, on the 47th episode of Systm, it was announced that Chief Engineer and co-host David Randolph had left for another job outside of Revision3.
China Since its inception, Search Engine has broadcast stories pertaining to government control of the Internet in China, commented on the citizen journalism efforts in that nation, and criticized the Chinese government for the ways in which its policies restrict access to many Internet venues.
On November 19, 2022, actor, writer, musician, and comedian Steve Martin called into Laporte's radio show to announce Leo's retirement from The Tech Guy radio show.
He had a paper route, washed dogs, and held "jobs that involved shovels." Before recording his first episode in 2008, Clark had never listened to a podcast, and didn't know what one was.
In the projects and distros category, the Open Rights Group was awarded £1000, the Electronic Frontier Foundation was awarded £300 and the Free Software Foundation was awarded £200.
The show promises to develop into a worthy rival of Reply All and This American Life." In April 2020, The Irish Times included Endless Thread on its list of "50 of the Best Podcasts to Listen to Right Now".
These included a standard 64 kbit/s MP3, a low-bandwidth 16 kbit/s MP3, Advanced Audio Coding (AAC), and open source Ogg Vorbis.
References External links Official website Leo Laporte at IMDb Leo Laporte in libraries (WorldCat catalog)
Carroll received an "Emperor Has No Clothes" award at the Freedom From Religion Foundation Annual National Convention in October 2014.
Some shows are produced along with Leo Laporte's show, The Tech Guy and broadcast on the Premiere Radio Network as well as Sirius XM Satellite Radio.
The show's guests have included Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, filmmaker James Cameron, Anduril Industries co-founder Palmer Luckey, Marc Andreessen of Andreessen Horowitz, OpenAI co-founder and CEO Sam Altman, DoorDash co-founder Andy Fang, and Eddy Cue of Apple.
The podcast was the "People's Voice Winner" at the 2017 Webby Awards as well as an Honoree for "Best Host".
Recode also provided breaking technology coverage for NBCUniversal, and received video resources and exposure in return via a formal partnership.
Each episode of the TED Radio Hour is one hour long, and explores a theme — such as happiness, crowd-sourcing innovation or power shifts — through three to four related TED Talks.
Each episode was originally broadcast on BBC World Service, with a subsequent broadcast on BBC Radio 4 and distribution as a BBC podcast.
The series has Ezarik and Nguyen getting lost in various locales and solving their problems using AT&T equipment.
Reception and awards Radiolab has been widely acclaimed among listeners and critics alike for its imaginative format and original use of sound design.
She left Marketplace in 2021 to join Launch, a venture capital firm, where she was a podcaster and investor.
Reception The show is downloaded more than 1 million times per week and is consistently on the iTunes Top 10 podcast rankings, peaking at #1.
Designing with Web Standards reiterates many of the arguments made by the Web Standards Project to highlight the benefits of standards-compliant web design.
It sounds like life." And unlike traditional journalism, in which the reader is given only access to the final article, not the interview, Abumrad added that Radiolab's process is more transparent.
The Webby Awards recognizes two classifications of winners each category – The Webby Award, chosen by The International Academy of Digital Arts and Sciences, and The People's Voice Award which is voted on by the public.
This admiration was eventually reciprocated when UJBR mentioned SYSK on their website and had one of their employees feature as a guest on SYSK's Barbie doll podcast.
On October 3, 2018, the podcast started releasing additional short episodes titled Short Stuff, where they cover topics that don't warrant the length of a full episode (e.g.
In his 2007 article for MarketWatch regarding the iPhone, Dvorak wrote, "If [Apple's] smart, it will call the iPhone a 'reference design' and pass it to some suckers to build with someone else's marketing budget.
(The MicroTimes column ran under the banner Dvorak's Last Column.) He has written for The New York Times, Los Angeles Times, MacMania Networks, International Herald Tribune, The San Francisco Examiner and The Philadelphia Inquirer, among numerous other publications.
As a developer, he is best known for being chief technology officer for Tumblr and creating Instapaper and Overcast.
Gunn was awarded the Public Service Award to the Individual by the National Science Board, for her contributions to the public understanding of science and engineering.
In 2019, the podcast was named the best podcast of the year by Dutch newspaper De Volkskrant and the sixth best podcast of the year by The New Yorker.
Radio and television From December 1977 to May 1998, Laporte hosted newstalk and interview shows on KGO, KSFO, and KNBR in San Francisco.
The podcast was included on Education Technology Magazine's list of "6 Essential Podcasts for Tech Heads to Tune Into".
Nora Young often encouraged listeners to become "Spark Contributors" by participating in the active conversations on the Spark Blog, notifying the Spark Team of interesting ideas to investigate, or even recording interviews and letting Spark use them on the show.
In addition, the old faux brick wall has been painted white and has had various other cosmetic changes from the 2007-2009 set.
Media contact information is available on the Tech Nation website Academically, Bioentrepreneurship courses are throughout the university as they require the successful collaboration of multi-disciplinary expertise.
The two of them started a media company called "Stable Genius Productions", a reference to a tweet by President Donald Trump.
Throughout the 2000s and 2010s, RadioTux expanded into live event coverage at German open-source conferences including the Chemnitzer Linux-Tage, LinuxTag and CeBIT.
Both Goldman and Dzotsi left the show in 2022 with the final episode released on June 23 of that year.
Ezarik signed with the William Morris Endeavor in July 2017, and she was named one of the top 10 Top Tech/Business Influencers by Forbes for 2017.
Her story Why Don't We Just Kill the Kid In the Omelas Hole won the 2024 Nebula Award for Best Short Story, the 2024 BSFA Award for Short Fiction, and the 2025 Locus Award for Best Short Story.
She was nominated at the 4th Streamy Awards in 2014 for Best Collaboration with Rooster Teeth, Freddie Wong, Greg Miller, and Adam Kovic.
Early life Jeffrey Zeldman was born on January 12, 1955, in Queens, New York, to the robotics engineer Maurice Zeldman and his wife Phyllis Sylvia Zeldman.
In October 2016, a Warsaw court issued a default judgment ordering the Government of Russia to hand the property back to Poland.
Three statues of Roman goddesses Diana, Juno and Venus used to stand on a front one, were removed later on and restored in 2007.
Between 1978 and 1979 he cooperated with Polish singer Anna Jantar during their performances in Poland and Czechoslovakia (ČSSR).
In one of his interviews, on February 4, 1974, the Shah stated that he did not know the exact number of employees of SAVAK.
In the courtyard, the original elements of the house have been preserved, including a swimming pool dating back to its earlier days.
Kaskad and Omega After the full-sized invasion of Soviet forces within the Afghan People's Republic in July 1980 the KGB ordered the KUOS to form another special operations task force - Kaskad (Каскад, Russian for "cascade").
(One of the most informative books about the nature of Montelupich Prison.) Wanda Kurkiewiczowa, Za murami Monte: wspomnienia z więzienia kobiecego Montelupich-Helclów, 1941–1942, Kraków, Wydawnictwo Literackie, 1968.
Founding and structure The Counterintelligence Service (KOS) was formed in 1946 as one of the remnants of the Department for Protection of the People (OZNA), with Directorate for State Security (UDBA) forming the second component of the new security and intelligence structure of SFR Yugoslavia.
In the summer of 2024, the European Union and Switzerland imposed sanctions against the head of the HUBAZiK (GUBOPiK), Andrei Ananenko, and two of his deputies.
To detect NPPD a 0.1% methanol solution of naphthoresorcinol is added to a swab of the item in question and then concentrated hydrochloric acid is added.
There are widespread rumors that all systems licensed by FAPSI have backdoors allowing the agency to freely access the encrypted information.
This organisation, led by an NIF cadre on the RCCNS, was given a mandate to "protect the revolution", effectively acting as a secret police with authority above other law enforcement.
Activities Since the Taliban takeover in August 2021, six hundred ISIS members, four kidnappers, dozens of mafia and other criminals have been arrested by the GDI.
Sources vary as to his role in the Serizawa Kamo (one of the original commanders of the Shinsengumi) assassination.
Finally, the resolution condemned the "creation and development of government-protected armed groups, which ...
It was a common practice of the OVRA to catch Roman Catholic priests in flagrante delicto and blackmail them into spying for the OVRA, which was therefore always very well informed about the affairs of the Holy See.
Once unsealed, the records revealed more than 87,000 names of citizens about whom the state had collected information, or classified as "suspects".
See also List of archives in Paraguay Notes Bibliography Martín Almada, Paraguay: The Forgotten Prison, the Exiled Country External links UNESCO "Democracy in the light of dictatorship" by Alain Touraine, article for the UNESCO.
It was opened in 1994 on the site of the main political prison of the former East German Communist Ministry of State Security, the Stasi.
Through "general investigations" aimed at having a constant eye on the evolution on national soil of social unrest, political underground movements and sports-related violent phenomena the DIGOS periodically reports to the Minister of Interior and to the Head of Police.
Another point that suggests possible Tsu domain heritage is his formal given name 諱 (imina), Yoshitora (宜虎), which shares a character in common with the name of the first Tōdō lord of Tsu, Tōdō Takatora (藤堂高虎).
Colonel (Ret) Friedrich Jeschonnek, a book reviewer for Hardthöhenkurier magazine stated that there is a lot of literature on the Stasi that has focused on secret operations and structure.
Name The agency was founded in March 1946 as a result of the Department for Protection of the People (OZNA) splitting into two branches.
History As early as 1971, the Khmer Rouge or the Communist Party of Kampuchea established the Special Zone outside of Phnom Penh under the direction of Vorn Vet and Son Sen.
Because it was not well known, the prison was not stormed by demonstrators after the fall of the Wall.
History The complaints by local NGOs and international organizations against the People's Liberation Operation forced Nicolás Maduro's administration to abandon the security policy, but kept the same dynamic in a different security force, the Special Armed Forces (FAES).
FCID has also arrested several high profile ministers of Rajapaksa Administration including former Economy Development Minister Basil Rajapaksa.
Copies of especially sensitive documents were numbered and labeled or stamped as secret or "For official use only".
European Network of Official Authorities in Charge of Secret Police Files – an international organization bringing together archival institutions from Central and Eastern European countries, established in December 2008.
Meanwhile, the British intelligence community released directives sent from Moscow to its agents, proving that Moscow was highly likely behind what had happened around the world.
Three other civilians that were high government official between 1978 and 1982 were also named in the complaint.
The SCNS Higher School, officially known as the Higher School of the State Committee for National Security (Tajik: Мактаби олии Кумитаи амнияти миллии Ҷумҳурии Тоҷикистон) is a Tajik public institution under the Government of Tajikistan.
Citations and notes See also Military police Your Neighbor's Son External links Google Translation of Vice Admiral Dimitriades' interview TV series: Reportage without frontiers (From ET Greek National TV) To Vima interview with Nikos Konstantopoulos (Translation by Google)
Evidence of their effectiveness was that the riots "petered out" after meetings between the President Chadli Bendjedid and Islamists Ali Benhadj and members of the Muslim Brotherhood.
of GUGB, 5-й (особый) отдел ГУГБ December 1936 – 2nd Directorate of NKVD (Special Departments), 2-е Управление (особых отделов) НКВД СССР June 1938 – 4th (Special) Dept.
Комарков: Ленд-Лиз для СССР в первый год великой Отечественной: Особенности, Проблемы, Итоги == Notes ==
Left-wing deputies of the Concertación, such as Carlos Montes (PS) and Denisse Pascal (PS), requested his transfer to the Punta Peuco prison, considered as more tightly guarded and where condemned military personnel would enjoy less freedom of action than in the military prison.
Encryption mechanism The Fialka rotor assembly has 10 rotors mounted on an axle and a 30 by 30 commutator (Kc 30x30).
Personalities of the SERPAJ One of the founders and the first coordinator of the SERPAJ was the 1980 Nobel Peace Prize winner Adolfo Pérez Esquivel.
The character "niwa" in their name, meaning garden or yard, refers to the rumor that they were quartered in the garden of Edo Castle.
In March 1993, Townley, who confessed to commissioning the murder attempt on behalf of DINA by National Vanguard members, was convicted and sentenced in absentia to 18 years in prison, with two years remission.
Like many other anti-corruption institutions the Russia Federation created in the early 1990s, this new tax agency was founded on a set of popular, reform-minded beliefs that policing is a service to society.
The leading role in this operation belonged to the General Intelligence Directorate of Communist Cuba.
The elections were canceled after the first round and the military effectively took control of the government, forcing pro-reform president Chadli Bendjedid from office.
They suffered punches and kicks all over their bodies, as well as blows with rubber truncheons or the butt of rifles.
The Prussian Secret Police (German: Preußische Geheimpolizei) was the secret police of Prussia in the 19th and early 20th centuries.
José Guilherme Godinho Ferreira (September 22, 1930 — August 15, 2021), also known as Sivuca, was a Brazilian police officer and politician.
The German agents indeed co-operated with the German forces during the invasion of Poland, which led to some reprisals that were highly exaggerated by the German propaganda.
Keying material The keying material for the Fialka consists of a daily key book, a message key book and a message identifier book for broadcast traffic.
Changing its structure several times during the first half of the 20th century, it was disbanded in 1948, when Romania became a people's republic.
See also Department for Protection of the People (OZNA) Directorate for State Security (UDBA) Yugoslav People's Army Security Directorate References External links International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia, 'questioning' transcripts on Operations "Labrador" and "Opera".
This type of walk is taught in the manuals for KGB officers and it is where it is believed to have originated, but it is a recurring behavior in the Red Army and other military, security, and espionage organizations.
In 2025, Warsaw City Council announced that the buildings would be repurposed to provide housing for "representatives of those professions that are particularly important for the functioning of the city".
Clive Foss, in The Tyrants: 2500 years of Absolute Power and Corruption, estimates that 1,500 Chileans were killed or disappeared during the Pinochet regime.
On September 25 (lunar calendar August 13), Serizawa and his group destroyed Yamatoya, a silk cloth store, in daylight with a cannon given to the group by the Aizu clan when they would not give them money.
In early 2006, intelligence gathered from NDS detainees suggested Osama bin Laden resided in the western Pakistan town of Mansehra.
There is seating directly in front of the site wall, situated intentionally to provoke an understanding of the "different affective space this memorial produces as a place of contemplation with no barriers, in private, in solace".
History The Scuderie Le Cocq was created to avenge the death on duty of Milton Le Cocq, a famous police detective from the state of Rio de Janeiro (formerly the Federal District), a member of Getúlio Vargas' personal guard and cousin of Brigadier Eduardo Gomes.
The new agency also took responsibility for border security that had previously fallen under the mandate of the State Committee for Border Protection.
Conditions Fort VII was known among prisoners as a particularly harsh camp, partly because of the high ratio of guards to prisoners (about one to five).
On 3 February 1941, the 4th Department (Special Section, OO) of GUGB within the NKVD security service responsible for the Red Army military counter-intelligence, consisting of 12 Sections and one Investigation Unit, was separated from the GUGB NKVD.
Overall, the brutal repression implemented by Anido with the support of different armed groups managed to strongly reduced CNT's ability to defend workers' rights and to organize an efficient union struggle.
Despite the doubts, the Military Junta insisted on its version of the clashes and criticized the questions as a smear campaign abroad against the military regime.
In his memoir, Shinohara describes pivotal events and circumstances surrounding the Shinsengumi, Aburakōji Incident and his own assassination attempt on Kondō Isami.
In August 2010, fighters of the unit went on strike in protest against the arrest of their former chief Almaz Dzholdoshaliyev.
Wagner, Margaret E., Osbourne, Linda Barrett, Reyburn, Susan, and the Staff of the Library of Congress (2007).
On March 22, 1922, the commission was reformed into the State Political Administration (DPU) by a resolution of the All-Ukrainian Central Executive Committee.
On September 25, 1991, Soviet president Mikhail Gorbachev dismantled the KGB into several independent departments.
The famous lions, known as "Swapo", sculpted by Johann Halbig stood outside the main entrance of the palace.
The institute comprises faculties of applied mathematics, specialised engineering and information security, departments of natural science, special skills, and English language.
Having spent 13.9 million Euros already, these were demolished, despite the protests of Zumthor and other architects, in 2004.
Especially slave workers from eastern Europe were often badly treated and many of them were executed.
The works would include reconnection of utilities, replacement of doors and windows, and the construction of a new building of up to six storeys.
George in Feneos into a concentration camp and killing ground for those they deemed "reactionaries".
On the other hand, Maoists such as Siraj Sikder of the Purba Banglar Sarbahara Party and Abdul Haq began attacking the government and people whom they considered "class enemies".
The Force was disbanded and merged with the Bangladesh Army following the August 15th 1975 coup which dislodged Sheikh Mujibur Rahman from power.
One of the most notable cases of such a scenario was reportedly carried out during Bydgoszcz Bloody Sunday.
On 1 April 1988, the AGM/S was renamed "Department XXIII" (anti terrorism) and on 1 March 1989 it was integrated into Department XXII (counter-terrorism).
Special Brigades - a unit from the French police that specialized in fighting the French Resistance.
History The Financial Crimes Investigation Division was formed on 26 February 2015 under the purview of Sri Lanka Police Service.
As a result of the Rwandan members of the SRB, Rwandans gained a reputation of being violent and ruthless in Uganda.
Initially, the Afghan government claimed he was a peace convoy, but later admitted that the plan was to support the Pakistani Taliban as retaliation against Pakistan for backing the Afghan Taliban.
During his time in France, Iturriaga was dedicated to establishing relations with the French Armed Forces and combating political narratives about the situation in Pinochet's Chile, his professional focus was on diplomacy and military representation of Chile abroad.
On 9 September 1991, the KGB of the MSSR was transformed into the Ministry of National Security (now, the Information and Security Service of the Republic of Moldova).
Mass killings of the "enemies of the people" Throughout its existence, the OZNA used illegal practices which included occasional mass murders of the "enemies of the people", under the justification of conducting the "revolution".
However, the legacy of an intelligence apparatus deeply involved in domestic repression would influence all subsequent Sudanese governments.
In August 2002, the State Border Guard Service was established as a part of the UKMK, having been merged with the Main Border Guard Directorate of the Ministry of Defense and the Main Directorate of Border Control of the UKMK that day.
The Criminal Investigation Department (known as CID) of the Sri Lanka Police Service is responsible for carrying out investigations throughout the island into serious crimes, including murders, rape and organized crime cases of a very serious nature that require special skills and complex detection.
In the latter half of 1978, Putin left Leningrad to attend the KGB's Felix Dzerzhinsky Higher School in Moscow, pending a final decision on his next assignment.
Also revealed was a letter written by Manuel Contreras, head of the Chilean National Intelligence Directorate (DINA) at the time of writing, which invited Paraguayan intelligence officials to Santiago for a clandestine "First Working Meeting on National Intelligence" on 25 November 1975.
The Counter Terrorism Training Center of the MNB was also opened in the capital in October 2005 as a training institution.
In addition, Himmler obtained control over the Nazi concentration camps, the ones already established and the ones planned.
It focused initially on reconstruction and combatting operations of the German intelligence service (especially Gestapo).
Vugesta purchases between 1940 and 1945 was one of the three categories recognised by the Vienna Museum as looted property.
From 1951 until 1953, the Seguridad Nacional operated a prison camp on Guasina Island, a forced labour camp.
He also published about twenty novels, including Invalidní sourozenci, most of them dealing with the topic of crisis in an individual vis a vis society.
When they felt they securely had the trust to Aizu they assassinated Serizawa because they no longer needed him.
The VCI rapidly set up shadow governments in rural South Vietnam by replacing local leadership in small rural hamlets loyal to the Saigon government with communist cadres.
Second and Third Main Directorates The Second Main Directorate focused on domestic counterintelligence and acted as an internal security and political police force.
In January 1868, Harada, together with the rest of the Shinsengumi, fought at the Battle of Toba–Fushimi against the Imperial forces.
The CIA manual for the Contras, Tayacan, states that the Contras should gather the local population for a public tribunal to "shame, ridicule and humiliate" Sandinista officials to "reduce their influence".
Österreich aber ist wiederauferstanden und mit ihm unsere Toten, die unsterblichen Opfer." (English) "Here stood the House of the Gestapo.
Among its functions was control of access to information considered state secret, of foreign travel, and of publications.
Pablo González-Ruelas Notorious members Rafael Aguilar Guajardo Arturo Durazo Moreno (Alias "El Negro Durazo") Juan José Esparragoza Moreno (Alias "El Azul") See also CIA cryptonym == References ==
As early as 1 September 1939, potential opponents of the war were arrested in the German Reich and sent to concentration camps.
In the reorganization of the ranks in November 1864, he was first assigned as the fourth unit's captain and would later receive an award from the shogunate for his part in the Kinmon incident.
He also alleged there was a Soviet-controlled organisation of former Nazis - which he nicknamed 'Hacke' - that was active in postwar West Germany.
In 1920, the new government of independent Latvia took over the building for government use, including the Ministry of the Interior and other offices.
The DGCIM has been targeted by US sanctions in 2019 after Venezuelan Navy Captain Rafael Acosta Arévalo died in DGCIM custody, accused of being involved in a coup plot.
For reaching this goal Anido was appointed at the same time as the civil and military governor of Barcelona, catching in his hands an enormous power.
The number of employees of the Committee for Public Security was cut by 30% in central headquarters and by 40–50% in local structures.
History Born in 1854, Tetsunosuke was the third son of Ichimura Hanemoki of the Ōgaki Domain, Mino Province, Japan.
Growth was the medal in a trapezoid-shaped plastic clip, the 32.5 mm wide and 9.7 mm in height at the front left side of the mortgaged.
The history of the Shinsengumi has been dramatized in many television series, including Shinsengumi Shimatsuki (Shinsengumi, its birth to end) (TBS, 1961); and Shinsengumi Keppuroku (NTV, 1967).
To address international criticism, a small exposition describing the Holocaust in Lithuania was added in 2011.
From 1984 to 1990 he was a docent in Vysoká škola (higher school) of the Sbor národní bezpečnosti in Bratislava.
Following the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, Russian president Boris Yeltsin transformed it to the Federal Protective Service (FPS).
Serdyukov, Ivanov, and Sidorov all have had prior KGB or Red Army training, but Medvedev is an exception.
In the United States, swastikas were painted, anti-Semitic slogans were displayed and Jewish property were attacked.
Between 9,000 and 12,000 people, mostly civilians, were killed between 1989 and 1998 in the operation.
I tried to help the Soviet soldiers even in seemingly insignificant matters of their daily life here.
Library of Congress, "[e]ventually, the Hangash, which operated without legal authority, became more feared than the NSS".
Line X operated through encrypted channels using advanced technology to ensure their messages were safely transmitted without interception by their adversaries.
The exhibition shares the history of persecution under National Socialism through photographs, short texts, and occasional reports from contemporary witnesses.
The initials "E.M." in the coat of arms of the Scuderie Le Cocq stand for "Motorized Squad", a division of the Special Police to which detective Milton Le Cocq belonged when he was a member of the special police, and not the death squad.
Aftermath In November 2015, 56 former DINA agents received prison sentences for the crime of torturing Bueno and Müller.
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty has reported claims that the 1999 Tashkent bombings were carried out by the SNB, then led by Rustam Inoyatov of the Tashkent clan, and that the SNB may also have been responsible for a series of bombings in 2004 in Tashkent and Bukhara.
The first formal deployment of SOBR was in the city of Orsha in October 1999, where it was tasked with dismantling a local criminal group.
Hundreds of executions of anti-communists or collaborators took place in the vicinity of the ULEN refineries.
Since October 2021, he is one of the leaders of the Kudy z krize ("Where to go from the crisis") platform.
On 25 August 1991, the Supreme Soviet of Belarus passed the Declaration of State Sovereignty of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic into constitutional law, effectively declaring independence from the USSR.
In July 2023, the unit, along with other Belarusian police force units, met with members of the Wagner Group.
In 2021, a criminal case against Luponosov was opened in Belarus; in April 2023, the Minsk City Court sentenced him in absentia to 18 years in a penal colony and a fine.
The consequences of funkspiel on the Archdeacon network were duplicated over other areas of northern France.
The Gambit III satellites would differ from the Gambit I satellites in that the Gambit III had a four camera system, which carried over twelve thousand feet of film, and were able to produce resolutions as small as four inches.
Its members included Harry Houghton, Ethel Gee, Gordon Lonsdale, and most famously Morris and Lona Cohen (cryptonym Peter and Helen Kroger).
Around the flat-roofed building is a façade made of metal lamellae, which opens the building in a way that it is possible to look out of it to the surroundings anywhere on the ground floor of the building.
In 1951 he was arrested by the country's Communist government for alleged espionage, and following the demands of the state prosecutor for the death penalty, he was ultimately sentenced to hard labor in the Jáchymov uranium mines.
He studied at night, worked, and trained in swimming in the morning and water polo in the afternoon, both at Bangu Atlético Clube.
In addition to its own investigative work, the brigade could count on reports from the Falange's Information and Investigation Service, which also functioned as a political police.
Sheremet was eventually murdered in a manner as discussed by the persons on the tape four years after the alleged recording date, in 2016.
Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union, the Dynamo central office merged into the All-Russian sports and fitness society Dynamo, while the Dynamo offices of other union republics, which became independent, began functioning as foreign organizations.
After some time, his stepfather was promoted to first sergeant and was able to provide a higher salary for the family.
In the summer of 1948 the military personnel in KI were returned to the Soviet military to reconstitute foreign military intelligence service (GRU).
The counterespionage section was responsible for neutralizing foreign intelligence operations in Albania as well as domestic movements and parties opposed to the Party of Labour of Albania.
He points out that the ratio of Order Police to auxiliaries was 1 to 10 in both Ukraine and Belarus.
From 1968 to 1970 he was a singer in Golden Kids with Marta Kubišová and Helena Vondráčková, and from 1970 a singer in the group Bacily.
Army Field Manual 30-31B United States involvement in regime change References Bibliography Tayacán (1983).
Subsequently, the Kazakh tax police was transformed into the financial police, in charge of fighting corruption.
The Directorate of Intelligence and Prevention Services (Spanish: Dirección de los Servicios de Inteligencia y Prevención, DISIP) was an intelligence and counter-intelligence agency inside and outside of Venezuela between 1969 and 2009, when the SEBIN was created by former President Hugo Chávez.
Commission The report was prepared at the request of President Ricardo Lagos by the National Commission on Political Imprisonment and Torture, which consisted of eight members.
The Transitional Justice Commission is charged with overseeing the process and as of 2019 was still in operation.
Krejčí is a director of the Institute of the Global Studies of The Jan Amos Komensky University Prague, Czech Republic.
In February 1945, six British airmen were captured in southern Burma and interrogated by the Kempeitai before being lined up on the edge of a trench, blindfolded, and beheaded by a Kempeitai officer; their bodies were used for bayonet practice.
History HUBAZiK (GUBOPiK) has been referred by the media as "one of the main bodies responsible for political persecution" in Belarus".
Although all communist sympathisers were released, the overall role as a political prison continued.
The Dirección Federal de Seguridad (Federal Security Directorate, DFS) was a Mexican intelligence agency and secret police.
Both forces worked at regional and district levels, supervised by the Ministries of the Interior of the Czech and Slovak Socialist Republics, but operationally directed by the federal Ministry of Interior.
Once the internal borders of the USSR were established in the early 1920s, the Regional State Political Directorate of the Kara-Kyrgyz Autonomous Oblast was created, which was not an independent agency due to the oblast being part of the RSFSR.
The ÁVH was dissolved by Nagy's revolutionary government during the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 and succeeded by the Ministry of Internal Affairs III.
On 20 November 1991, Kyrgyz President Askar Akayev signed a presidential decree establishing the State Committee for National Security (UKMK/GKNB) on the basis of the KGB in Kyrgyzstan.
In the 50s, the Committee for State Security (KGB) was established in the then Kirghiz SSR, which encompassed all of what is modern Kyrgyzstan.
Committee for State Security of the Turkmen Soviet Socialist Republic (Russian: Комитет государственной безопасности Туркменской ССР), or KGB of Turkmen SSR, was the security agency of the Turkmen Soviet Socialist Republic, being the local branch of Committee for State Security of the USSR.
Torture centres The DGCIM is known to run a torture centre within its headquarters in Caracas, known as the Casa de los Sueños (English: "House of Dreams").
As a consequence, he was not among the jujutsu masters gathered by Kano at the Dai Nippon Butoku Kai to inaugurate its jujutsu division in 1895 either.
Still, the overall impact of this volume is convincing, though none of the material will send historians scurrying to rewrite their books." In her 2000 review, scholar Amy Knight said: "While The Sword and the Shield contains new information ...
In September 1941, he passed on the information that Japan did not intend to attack the Soviet Union despite the Three Power Pact with the Nazis, which allowed the Soviets to concentrate their forces on the West.
The gentle decline in the overall number of the Informal collaborators for several years in the later 1970s is associated with new guidelines, intended to increase their professionalism.
There is a rumor that Harada did not die in 1868, but he survived and travelled to China and became a leader for a group of mounted bandits.
In 2006 he chaired the constituent assembly responsible for drafting a new constitution == References ==
The Years of Lead (Arabic: سنوات الرصاص, romanized: Sanawāt ar-Raṣāṣ) was a period of the rule of King Hassan II of Morocco, from roughly the 1960s to the 1980s, marked by state violence and repression against political dissidents and democracy activists.
(in Spanish) National Security Archive's Chile Documentation Project, which provides documents obtained from FOIA requests regarding U.S.
Alfredo Romero, executive director of the Venezuelan Penal Forum (FPV), stated that the arrests of Twitter users in Venezuela was a measure to instill fear among those using social media that were critical against the government.
See also Insurgency in Aceh References External links INDONESIA: "SHOCK THERAPY": RESTORING ORDER IN ACEH 1989–1993 Indonesia: The War in Aceh "Conflict and Peacemaking in Aceh: A Chronology | Worldwatch Institute".
Departments Department of Law History During the Soviet era, the Higher School of KGB operated in the City of Dushanbe.
These people are also subject to the restrictive measures by the United Kingdom, Switzerland, and Canada.
Kiss of death in media A lipstick gun is used throughout Metal Gear Solid 3: Snake Eater (2004) by EVA, and one is used by Johnny English in Johnny English Reborn (2011).
RAVSIGUR, a shortening of Ravnateljstvo za javni red i sigurnost ('Directorate for Public Order and Security'), later known as GRAVSIGUR in 1943, was a supervisory department in the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Independent State of Croatia (NDH).
In early 1972, Amin ejected Israeli technicians from Uganda and changed the name of the organisation to the State Research Bureau (SRB).
Death After Seiheitai's departure from Edo, Harada, wishing to be with his wife and child, returned to the city.
In 1950, when the administrative-territorial units were abolished as authorities, the UDBA was reorganized again.
He aspired to integrate all the jujutsu styles in Japan, though it seems he never followed up with the idea.
In Ukraine Special Group "Alpha" is a branch of the Security Service of Ukraine; and a successor of the Soviet Union's Alpha Group.
In response, a Tokugawa official made spies out of former Rōshigumi members Tomouchi Yoshio and Iesato Jiro, forced them to stay in Kyoto, and forced them to join Serizawa and Kondo's group in order to keep an eye on them.
On 13 March 1954, the Supreme Soviet of USSR made the decision to create a republican affiliate for the Committee of State Security (KGB) in the republic.
In 1961, the Iranian authorities dismissed the agency's first director, General Teymur Bakhtiar, and he later became a political dissident.
Zifčák was only marginal, without any connection to critical events and without any active effort to influence these events.
Activities Most information is still scant due to its classification as military secret, but some can be traced in the media, especially during the Milošević tenure and the role played in the break-up of Yugoslavia (e.g.
Edited by Kate Doyle Site monitoring trial against Rios Montt in Guatemala Archived 3 January 2014 at the Wayback Machine
The documents have since been used in attempts to prosecute Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet and in several human rights cases in Argentina and Chile.
However, it is believed that Khomeini may have changed his mind and may have retained them into the new SAVAMA.
Organization The Military Intelligence Directorate was under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defense.
In November 2016, the artist Petr Pavlensky held an action - setting fire to the main entrance of the building as a protest "against continuous terror." He was fined for damaging a cultural heritage site, although it later emerged that the original door had been removed long ago.
When Yoshimune arrived from Kii, he had given his niwaban guards the same rank as the Iga mono guards.
Nawful Al-Husayn (2011), the European Union sanctioned him for being directly involved in repression and violence against the civilian population in Idlib province during the Syrian uprising.
100 seats in the courtroom were reserved for the press; however, there were only six seats that had been distributed to western news organization, except the Washington Post.
The latter faced charges because detainees were thrown into the sea from Puma helicopters departing from Peldehue, north of Santiago.
Some of the IMs did what they did out of political conviction: others acted in return for favours or because they were put under pressure.
McKee (fr.), Freyn Engineering, DuPont de Nemours, Radio Corporation of America, and more than a hundred other companies during the first five-year plan, taking advantage of the desperate condition of the American economy during the Great Depression.
In Paris, when the Germans launched a recruitment drive for 2,000 auxiliary policeman in their service, they received no fewer than 6,000 candidates." During the war, infamous French doctor and serial killer Marcel Petiot allegedly associated with Carlingue.
Once inside, the troops forced all the students to leave their rooms and lie belly-down on the floor.
One of the members was a known explosives expert while the others had been linked as well as convicted for various explosive and terrorist related activities.
I was very shocked by the duplicity of the French diplomatic position which, at the same time received political refugees with open arms, and collaborated with the dictatorships".
15 judges have expressed five concurring or dissenting opinions on the judgment on just satisfaction.
This form of residential surveillance does not occur at the home of the suspect, but at a place designated by the police.
government believed, based on the limited information it had, that Tice was in the custody of the Assad regime.
They were charged with unlawful assembly, demonstrating without a permit and failing to obey a police order to disperse.
litany, onto Fort Benning, with all who choose to march onto the post trespassing on federal property and subject to arrest.
After the 2011 fall of the government of Muammar Gaddafi, Libya became a major site of transit for migrants desperate to reach Europe, and Bani Walid is an important node in the migration route.
In August 2023, the Supreme Court of Chile affirmed convictions for six former agents of the National Intelligence Directorate and two Army officers for Soria's murder.
Democratic transition Chile turned to democracy in 1990 after 17 years of dictatorship, but Colonia Dignidad remained unchanged.
It was led by Captain Juan Morales Salgado, with assistance from Lieutenant Armando Fernández Larios.
It is the subject of a special follow-up by the HRC which regularly publishes reports on its complaint and situation, as well as the response and action of the governments concerned.
Reich also confronted journalists at CBS News in April 1984 after the network aired a documentary about El Salvador that, according to Reich's superior George Shultz, favored the country's guerrillas over the US and Salvadoran governments.
journalists, "disappeared", as did Víctor Olea Alegría, a member of the Socialist Party, and many others, in 1973.
Army career Videla joined the National Military College (Colegio Militar de la Nación) on 3 March 1942 and graduated on 21 December 1944 with the rank of second lieutenant.
In November 1976, over 30 leaders of the RSS, led by Madhavrao Muley, Dattopant Thengadi, and Moropant Pingle, wrote to Indira Gandhi, promising support to the Emergency if all RSS workers were released from prison.
Montoneros (Spanish: Movimiento Peronista Montonero, MPM) was an Argentine far-left revolutionary guerilla organization which emerged in the 1970s during the "Argentine Revolution" dictatorship.
Russia: Introduction, The Case, The Context, The Procedure, The Judgment, Implementation (Russian Justice Initiative) The long road to justice, The Guardian, June 12, 2006 European Court of Human Rights holds Russia responsible for summary execution in Novye Aldi, Prague Watchdog, October 12, 2006
Nélida Gómez de Navajas (July 23, 1927 – May 2, 2012) was an Argentine human rights activist and one of the founding members of the Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo.
According to the Chilean government, the number of executions and forced disappearances was at least 3,095.
Human rights groups in Argentina often cite a figure of 30,000 disappeared; Amnesty International estimates 20,000.
This was contrary to the usual practice of the Comet Line and the young Elsie was immediately suspicious as the two didn't appear "American" to her.
During this time he founded – along with his friends and associates, Eduardo Frei Montalva, Radomiro Tomic, and José Ignacio Palma – the National Falange which merged with the Christian Democratic Party in 1957.
The team, in accordance with their training, shot and killed the suspects which at the time the teams claimed to be a justifiable response to the suspects allegedly reaching for what the team believed were the detonators.
Juan Bosco Maino Canales (19 February 1949 – disappeared 26 May 1976) was a Chilean-Italian photographer, mechanical engineer, political activist and member and leader of the Popular Unitary Action Movement (MAPU).
There are still debates in left-wing circles over whether Romo suddenly changed his political orientation or if he had always been a mole for the Chilean security services.
A statement from attorney General of Dubai was released detailing that Holman attempted to enter Dubai using an expired Swedish passport and was held for less than 24 hours and then deported due to profanity and photographing a government official in a restricted area.
However, the Court also ruled that Italy had not complied with its procedural obligations in connection with the death of Carlo Giuliani and awarded a total of €40,000 in non-pecuniary damages to the three applicants.
The Montoneros' leadership was keen to learn from the ERP's Compañía de Monte Ramón Rosa Jiménez operating in the province of Tucumán.
Other abductions by North Korea North Korea has also perpetrated abductions in South Korea, which has the highest number of citizens abducted by the North.
He was sentenced to ten years in prison for the kidnapping of MIR member Manuel Cortez Joo and five years and a day for the kidnapping of Ofelio Lazo, who disappeared in July 1974.
Instead, their kidnapping became an international scandal, which was a problem for the Brazilian and Uruguayan military regimes.
Cultural legacy Stroessner's dictatorship and government censorship is reflected in 2025 documentary essay Under the Flags, the Sun by Paraguay director Juanjo Pereira.
This resulted in a large number of rural women swelling the populations of Spanish prisons, including in Madrid, Córdoba, Málaga and Segovia.
Within days of his disappearance the Inter American Press Association (IAPA) and Rapid Response Unit (URR) began to investigate.
Jacques Doniol-Valcroze wrote in Cahiers du Cinéma that the film was a powerful work comparable to the work of artists Francisco Goya and Franz Kafka.
In 1938, Sonnenfeldt was sent to Anna Essinger's Bunce Court School in England, as was his brother, Richard Sonnenfeldt.
María Isabel Chicha Chorobik de Mariani ((1923-11-19)November 19, 1923 – (2018-08-20)August 20, 2018), was an Argentine human rights activist.
In 2006, Yandiev's mother sued Russia to the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) for failing to adequately investigate the case.
The market was looted and destroyed in a raid by armored vehicles in November 2000, after a total of 18 Russian servicemen were reportedly either killed or kidnapped there since March 2000.
Luque was quoted in the SF magazine Y in 1938 as saying, "In the state, the woman/mother has to be the most important citizen.
It also adds that the State Department denies its involvement in the Pinochet coup, a position maintained to the present day.
The affidavit remains unclear on whether the lack of consent is based on insufficiency of the compensation or refusal to sell altogether.
Another name that was given to the estate was La Discothéque for the music that was played when the inmates were tortured.
Back home, Næss obtained photographs and details about the camps, and combined this information with his own memories to produce an album of 39 watercolor images over the course of two years.
He subsequently joined the Angkatan Pemuda Indonesia (API; Indonesian Youth Force), later becoming the chairman.
See also List of people who disappeared mysteriously (2000–present) List of journalists and media workers killed in Mexico List of kidnappings Human rights in Mexico References External links Colin Brayton, "The Rubbing Out of Alfred Jiménez Mota, Journalist" January 24, 2007.
It was later this same evening when Jiménez Mota disappeared, never to be seen nor heard from again.
Prior to the start of operations, Hafez al-Assad issued orders to seal off Hama from the outside world; effectively imposing a media blackout, total shut down of communications, electricity and food supplies to the city for months.
International media such as La Opinión of Argentina, Time magazine and the New York Times questioned the official version maintained by the Military Junta.
An estimated 5,000 people have "disappeared" in Chechnya since the start of the Second Chechen War in 1999.
Through his detention, the police found out the existence of the clandestine organization and began the investigation that would lead to the imprisonment and the execution of most of the OPM members, including Juan Carlos Da Costa.
This led to her needing emergency hospital admission and the death of the foetus, which was between 20 and 21 weeks old at the time.
Alikhadzhiyev, who was with his four minor children and was caring for a sick mother, did not resist; he was handcuffed, blindfolded and taken by an armoured vehicle to a location nearby, which is where he was last seen.
It prohibited all kinds of relations, sentimental or conjugal, among adult women and men, and segregated the living quarters by sex.
The servicemen detained Luluyeva along with her two cousins, two other women, and at least one other person.
Biography He spent his early life at Nefta in Tunisia, then he studied in al-Azhar University in Egypt, and University of Ez-Zitouna in Tunisia.
For more than a decade, and at a time of the rise of trade unions as social movements in the twentieth century, Jaime was a leader and negotiator on numerous occasions of Collective Conventions that brought the company into negotiation with the union.
At the time, he defended his actions as part of the state's perceived righteous war against the spread of communism, saying, "I did what I did because I was absolutely and totally in agreement" with the state's ambitions.
Surviving with only light injuries, al-Assad's revenge was swift and merciless: only hours later, a large number of imprisoned Islamists (reports say from 600 to 1,000 prisoners) were executed in their cells in Tadmor Prison (near Palmyra) by units loyal to the President's brother, Rifaat al-Assad.
In July 2025, a United States citizen and United States Army veteran named George Retes was arbitrarily detained by ICE for three days.
A larger palace with the same basic plan, also known as the Azm Palace, was built in Damascus by As'ad Pasha when he became governor of that city in 1743.
'Off the Record' also documents allegations concerning the treatment of detainees while in secret detention, including torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
The main witness in the case, whose identity remains confidential, was also indicted but kept apart from other suspects who were held in military or Carabineros custody.
After eating and being interviewed, the two airmen said they wanted to take a walk and get some air and departed.
History The first inhabitants of Colonia Dignidad arrived in 1961, brought by German citizen Paul Schäfer.
During his time as a councillor, he had begun to form ties with foreign communist states, travelling to Beijing twice before his appointment as mayor.
There he organised Związek Organizacji Wojskowej (ZOW, the Military Organization Association), and in November 1940 sent its first report about the camp and the genocide being committed there to Home Army headquarters in Warsaw.
See also List of solved missing person cases: 1950–1999 Vlakplaas External links South African History Archive Department of Justice == References ==
The mothers declared that between 1970 and 1980, more than 8,500 individuals became "Desaparecidos" or "the disappeared".
Their bodies were then wrapped in tarps, weighted, and dropped over the Atlantic, with a false flight plan drawn up.
Due to the fact that cooperatives had been largely drawn out into the open, the names of cooperativists were relatively easy for the intelligence services (G-2) to collate in order to designate targets for the subsequent extermination program.
In response, the Armenian Defense Ministry released a statement questioning the methods used by Azerbaijani authorities to obtain the confession, pointing to traces of torture seen on Saribekyan in the video.
Half-widow is a term given to Kashmiri Muslim women whose husbands are currently missing who have likely been abducted or detained and have been missing in the ongoing conflict in Kashmir.
Soria was first detained in the Vía Naranja house in the sector of Lo Curro, shared by DINA agent Michael Townley and where Eugenio Berrios also worked.
www.pittstate.edu Article in Spanish by Martín Almada "In Search of Truth and Justice: Coordination Board for Assistance to the Commission of Truth and Justice".
At least 143,353 people have disappeared, not including missing children or those missing in action.
The International Coalition against Enforced Disappearances (ICAED) gathers organizations of families of disappeared and human rights NGOs working in a nonviolent manner against the practice of enforced disappearances at the local, national and international level.
Under Pinochet It was called Venda Sexy ("Sexy Blindfold") for the sexual abuse that the inmates suffered during the detention and the fact inmates wore blindfolds.
In fall 1943 a baker named Marcel Renard from Nesles came to their home and told them that he was sheltering three American airmen who had been shot down over Europe.
Their goal was to destroy the "subversive" threat represented by the presence of thousands of political exiles in Argentina.
Events The Filártiga family contended that on March 29, 1976, their seventeen-year-old son Joelito Filártiga was kidnapped and tortured to death by Américo Norberto Peña-Irala.
As a result of militia forces of Montoneros attack, her daughter-in-law died, and the militants kidnapped a three months baby, Clara Anahí, and in the following year Maria's son was also murdered by the Montoneros.
Resolution The Irish government convened an expert group to address the implications of the judgement.
One of the best known cases was in July 1976 when dozens of people were murdered in retaliation for an attack committed by the guerrillas against the Federal Coordination building.
The Court ruled that Azerbaijan had to pay 60,000 (EUR) to Artush Petrosyan in respect of non-pecuniary damage, and in accordance with Article 44 § 2 of the Convention and 2,200 (EUR) in respect of costs and expenses.
In addition to suffering arbitrary detainment, torture, and extrajudicial execution, women faced rape and sexual abuse—sometimes for the crime of being related to an independence activist.
Events Journalists who managed to report on the area confirmed the use, by the Russians, of the vacuum bomb on the town.
Among the military arrangements was a 1 billion dollar Israeli Russian sale of military aircraft to China, which were to be jointly produced by Russia and Israel.
This confusion led to her doctors attempting to remove a non-existent coil from her uterus, but in the process damaging her foetus.
She completed her studies at the Iquique English College where she graduated with the title of Executive Bilingual Secretary.
But, on June 1, 2006, the BND (German intelligence agency) declared that it had known of El-Masri's seizure 16 months before Germany was officially informed of his arrest.
Treatment of prisoners The Nacht und Nebel prisoners' hair was shaved, and the women were given a convict costume of a thin cotton dress, wooden sandals, and a triangular black headcloth.
established after the transition from SOA to WHINSEC" and that "a much more rigorous human rights training program was in place than in any other US military institution".
Each person would work 12+ hours a day, receiving no payment, but doing so rather for the sake of Colonia Dignidad.
Among these protesters was Carlo Giuliani, a 23-year-old Roman Italian and resident of Genoa, whom a police officer shot and killed during what had become a riot two miles from the summit.
Books Assassination on Embassy Row (Pantheon 1980), with Saul Landau, on Orlando Letelier's murder; finalist for the Edgar Allan Poe Award 1981 for "Best Fact Crime." Our Man in Panama (Random House 1990); book on Manuel Noriega .
Controversial writings and controversies Tlass attempted to create a reputation for himself as a man of culture and emerged as an important patron of Syrian literature.
Saleh died during that night; from that moment, the official stance on Saleh's whereabouts would be: « We are searching for him.
His last words were: "I avenged them!" The group describes the result of the attack and the death of El Gallego as "The newspapers of the time reported profusely about the death of Quijada.
Photographs showed Giuliani, a 23-year-old Roman living in Genoa, throwing a fire extinguisher towards the van, a pistol firing a shot in return from the van, and Giuliani's body having been run over by the van.
It also contained a historic minbar from the same date, which has subsequently been relocated to the local Hama Museum.
Early life Torres was born in Cochabamba to a poor Aymara-Mestizo family and joined the army in 1941.
The 2005 report by the UN's Commission for Reception, Truth and Reconciliation in East Timor (CAVR) reports an estimated minimum number of conflict-related deaths of 102,800 (+/- 12,000).
On 28 September 1994, he was sentenced to five years in the Dubrava penitentiary for "endangering the constitutional order of Serbia".
Bie Lorentzen and Hansteen therefore decided to close the magazine, and asked Tamm to change her will.
The documentary covers forced disappearance as part of this involvement including the disappearance of 179 Hondurans and specific examples such as the case of Father James Carney, whose brother is interviewed.
In May 2016, the verdict of the tribunal, the "Tribunal Oral Federal N°1", declared 15 convictions directly related to the forced disappearance of 106 victims.
World War II At the time of the German invasion of Norway in 1940, Buland was still chairman of the Union of Railway Workers.
In 2010, his son Lesly Gaetjens wrote a biography about his father: The Shot Heard Around the World: The Joe Gaetjens Story.
Political activism From 1974, Maino worked directly alongside the MAPU Secretary General Carlos Montes Cisternas.
At one moment, he even helped to organize an event for the German Ambassador to Turkey Franz von Papen.
Re-education through labor sentences were given by the police, rather than through the judicial system.
After being spotted by locals, he went to the house of a prominent Syrian family, but was soon recaptured.
If a camp did not have a gas chamber of its own, the so-called Muselmänner, or prisoners who were too sick to work, were often murdered or transferred to other concentration camps for extermination.
The first public notice of a proposed film project was given during a radio broadcast on 10 November 1954, the opening day of the exhibition.
References External links ECtHR judgment(in French) Ahmet Alış, "Üç Devrin" Tanığı: Modern Kürt Siyasi Tarihinin İçinden Musa Anter'i Okumak, Birikim, 20 September 2010.
The mosque was almost completely destroyed by the Syrian government, along with much of the historic old town, during the civil conflict in Hama in 1982.
"You know that if you have any doubts, it is not too late to turn back… If you don't feel you're the type – if for any reason whatever you don't want to go you only have to tell me now.
The Inter-American Convention on The Forced Disappearance of Persons is a treaty of the Organization of American States (OAS) intended to combat the forced disappearance of persons.
The most infamous atrocity which was committed in Kansas during the American Civil War was the Lawrence Massacre.
Despite the support from Tamm, the circulation fell from a peak of 12,000 subscribers in 1947 to just 900 in 1955.
One week before the first appointment, though, on behalf of the Persatuan Perjuangan, Wikana stated that he did not want to be in the cabinet.
The Nur Al-Din Mosque (Arabic: جَامِع نُور ٱلدِّين, romanized: Jāmiʿ Nūr ad-Dīn) is a Zengid-era mosque in Hama, Syria.
The children were not allowed to remain in contact with their families, and many found themselves in centers run by Auxilio Social.
He founded Partido por la Victoria del Pueblo in 1975, in exile in Buenos Aires, during the civic-military dictatorship of Uruguay.
Known as Guatón Romo ("Fatso Romo") or Comandante Raúl, he was one of DINA's key torturers, operating in centers such as Villa Grimaldi.
Beside the summary executions of scores of opponents, Arellano punished several military officers for not being "harsh enough" on prisoners, including the constitutionalist officer Lieutenant Colonel Efrain Jaña Giron in Talca and Army Major Fernando Reveco Valenzuela in Calama.
During World War I, the Russian army occupied Western Armenia with the help of Armenian volunteer units.
Resistencia Libertaria (initially known as the Resistencia Anticapitalista Libertaria) was an Argentine anarchist urban guerrilla group that emerged in 1974 via a network of workers and university militants from La Plata and Córdoba.
The Henriette Bie Lorentzen House at Oslo and Akershus University College (where the Faculty of Social Sciences is located) is named in her honour.
See also Detention centres in Libya Arbitrary arrest and detention Kidnapping Extortion European migrant crisis Libyan Civil War (2014–present) == References ==
Rudolf Næss (23 August 1914 – 12 July 2003) was a Norwegian illustrator known for his "NN under SS" collection of water color illustrations, detailing various aspects of life as a Nacht und Nebel prisoner at Natzweiler-Struthof concentration camp during World War II.
Frank also played a role in assisting in the sale and transport of the materials and supplies for the operations in Colonia.
The courtyard on the ground floor has a fountain in the middle and is decorated with trees planted to provide shade.
The all Alawite Struggle Companies are broadly similar to the Defense Companies and were fanatically loyal to the Syrian government and were heavily used during the 1982 Hama massacre.
Greene recorded her candid account of her war experiences in his journal which was published in 1961.
Situated in a plaza, this modest memorial pays tribute to the victims who were held at this facility.
It astonished me to see them so calm; I was a wreck, constantly crying, I saw them all looking so calm and I said "I have to be like them".
Wiff was functioning as a liaison with the leadership, and was also responsible for carrying out some party tasks.
He wrote of his ouster: In 1981, as the ambassador to El Salvador, I refused a demand by the secretary of state, Alexander M.
See also Chilean coup of 1973 Rettig Report List of truth and reconciliation commissions References External links Popular Declassification (Desclasificacion Popular) An initiative in Chile to encourage those who testified for the Valech Commission to go to court to declassify their personal files.
Two embassy staff remarked that this progress was satisfactory because most of the camps had been removed.
Information about the alleged involvement of particular military units had been available to the prosecuting authorities no later than one month after the incident.
However, there were also militants from the Communist Party (PC), the Socialist Party (PS), the Popular Unitary Action Movement (MAPU), the Communist League of Chile, as well as some people without political affiliation.
In April 2015, John Dinges provided extensive testimony as a witness for Prosecutor Pablo Ouviña during the "Plan Condor" trial in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Milly Elise "Lise" Børsum (18 September 1908 – 29 August 1985) was a Norwegian resistance member during World War II, survivor from the Ravensbrück concentration camp, and known for her writings and organizing work after the war.
DINA foreign assassinations and operations Michael Townley's role In a confession letter which Michael Townley wrote on March 14, 1978, he acknowledged to being DINA's lead foreign assassin.
However, President Jimmy Carter, who took office in January 1977, highlighted issues of human rights in Latin America, including in Argentina.
And shortly after, they became really drowsy, and from there we loaded them onto trucks and headed off for the airfield." At the time, Scilingo said that the Argentine Navy was "still hiding what happened during the Dirty War".
Chief protesters include the opposition parties spearheaded by the Trinamool Congress under Mamata Banerjee and Socialist Unity Centre of India.
In March 2009, the magazine CartaCapital published previously unreleased documents of the National Information Service created by an undercover agent who was present at Goulart's properties in Uruguay.
In 1966, an Alawite-led faction within the Ba'ath Party seized power, strengthening Assad's position and, by extension, Tlass's.
These included the application of electricity to women's nipples and genitals, the use of dogs, and insertion of rats into women's vaginas.
Sometimes the arrest was conducted with a certain formality; at other times it took on the appearance and brutality of a kidnapping.
He was also since promoted to the rank of Colonel General and awarded with a title of the Hero of the Russian Federation.
Prior to this incident he was receiving death threats from an unknown source which led to his vigilance on the job and in his personal life.
In 1921, Leighton moved to Concepción for studies and an apprenticeship in the lay section of a seminary.
61737/14) was lodged on 11 September 2014, when Karen Petrosyan's body was still held in Azerbaijan, requesting that Rule 39 be applied and Azerbaijan be ordered to return it immediately to prevent damage to the corpse.
The first applicant, Mulkiye Osman, was the widow of Ali Osman, who was shot dead by Paul Paget-Lewis on 7 March 1988.
A military junta was formed, made up of him, representing the Army; Admiral Emilio Massera representing the Navy; and Brigadier General Orlando Ramón Agosti representing the Air Force.
Its main objective is the promotion and defense of human rights in the state of Nuevo León and northern Mexico.
Forde and Conway were jailed for 29 hours before they were released the following day on $1,300 bond each.
Of those agencies, the ICRC has additional privileges due to its special status as a non-governmental sovereign entity and its strict policy of neutrality.
The Matzah of Zion In 1983, Tlass wrote and published The Matzah of Zion, which is a treatment of the Damascus affair of 1840 that repeats the ancient blood libel that Jews use the blood of murdered non-Jews in religious rituals such as baking Matza bread.
Yandiev and the Russian quickly get into an argument, and the officer eventually shouts: "Take him away, damn it, finish him off there, shit, - that's the whole order.
These detainees were transferred to a covert facility known as the Simón Bolívar Barracks in La Reina.
Pollack, University of Nebraska Press, Lincoln and London, 2002, and Pollack's book reviewed in International Security, Vol.
Hugo Cores (1937-2007) was an influential Uruguayan political activist, trade unionist and libertarian socialist.
After being involved in a shooting incident 15 January 1945, where he was hit in the shoulder, he decided to try to flee to Sweden by crossing the mountains on ski.
A house had been established on that site since 1956, intended as a police detachment belonging to the Misiones Provincial Police.
Their goal was to use popular culture to create doubt within the minds of a group of people who would have never questioned their family.
This event brought about the end of his pacification intentions to reunite the various groups opposing Pinochet, including the leftists.
A parallel theme is the personal tragedy of a young Japanese researcher affiliated with the mental hospital, whose own schizophrenia has been triggered by the disappearance of his half-Jewish wife.
During this civil war, and the subsequent dictatorship established by its victors, Franco and his generals carried out a systematic persecution of the defenders of the Spanish Republic.
In December 1969, a Korean Air Lines YS-11 was hijacked by a North Korean agent soon after taking off from Gangneung.
The Guatemalan organization, founded in 1999 and based in Guatemala City, has received many death threats from government sympathizers.
Born in Iquique, a large harbour city in the far north, she married there Carlos Prats on January 19, 1944.
This was the origin of what became known as the Comet Line, the largest of the escape and evasion lines in World War II.
In April 2009, Kazakhstan's Ministry of Internal Affairs detained Serik Zhamanaev, whom they claimed to be a known criminal, for her murder.
Life Osvaldo Romo became known in working-class neighborhoods before Pinochet's coup in 1973 as a leftist activist, member of the Popular Socialist Union (USOPO) and MIR sympathizer.
Investigation In May 2008, a group of forensic investigators began the exhumation of the Putis mass graves belatedly following a 2003 recommendation by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission to investigate all such massacre sites.
One such group is the Fundación de Antropología Forense de Guatemala which has exhumed "8,355" bodies as of the 25th of March 2025.
Musa Anter (1920 – 20 September 1992), also known as "Apê Musa" (Kurdish: Apê Musa, literally "Uncle Musa"), was a Kurdish writer, journalist and intellectual.
It was re-shown on French television nationwide in 1990 to remind the people of the "horrors of war".
Production At first, director Puenzo, fearing for his safety, intended to shoot the film in secret, using hidden 16mm cameras.
Periodicals The article "Taken Under Fascism, Spain's 'Stolen Babies' Are Learning the Truth" by Nicholas Casey in The New York Times covers the specific story of Ana Belén Pintado and the role of the Catholic Church in these abductions.
Military Assistance Command, Vietnam (MACV—the joint-service command that provided command and control for all U.S.
This breaks down further to 1,068 victims confirmed to have been killed, 957 people who disappeared after their arrest, and an additional 90 killed by politically motivated private citizens.
He nationalized some American-owned property, such as the Matilde zinc mine, and ordered the US Peace Corps out of the country.
On 18 July 1976, notices of Carmelo Soria's death began to be announced on European radio stations, while it was censored in Chile.
Russia was ordered by the court to pay €85,000 in damages to Bitiyeva's daughter, living as a refugee in Germany.
La estamos esperando"" [Interview with Chicha Mariani: "If you know any girl who has doubts about her identity, tell her to come.
Martínez de Hoz took measures to restore economic growth, reversing Peronism in favour of a free market economy.
He had sought refuge in a local business after being shot in the leg and then in the back by the guerrillas that arrived in two cars.
He called an Asamblea del Pueblo, or People's Assembly, in which representatives of specific "proletarian" sectors of society were represented (miners, unionized teachers, students, peasants).
In 2010, Quiroga's wife María Cristina Trigo filed a lawsuit before the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) against the Bolivian government due to its lack of willingness to locate them.
The military used heavy free-falling high-explosion aviation bombs FAB-250 and FAB-500 with a damage radius exceeding 1,000 metres.
Most of the leaders of the organization were Paraguayans student that had gone to Argentina to study, where they had met some guerrilla organization members such as the Montoneros.
Mongolian numerals are numerals developed from Tibetan numerals and used in conjunction with the Mongolian and Clear script.
These Roman capitals are also called majuscules, as a counterpart to minuscule letters such as Merovingian and Carolingian.
Once established, writing systems on the whole change more slowly than their spoken counterparts, and often preserve features and expressions which are no longer current in the spoken language.
Some other programming languages have varying case sensitivity; in PHP, for example, variable names are case-sensitive but function names are not case-sensitive.
The text is set up in a strict literary style and works with typical elements like parallelism and chiasmus as already employed in the earlier Babylonian incantation type, for example in the incantation series Maqlû and Šurpu.
Semasiography ('writing with signs', from Greek semasia 'signification' + graphia 'writing') is the use of symbols, called semasiographs, to "communicate information without the necessary intercession of forms of speech".
For example, in the English word high, ⟨igh⟩ is a grapheme representing the phoneme —while ⟨igh⟩ is written using three letters potentially treated as distinct in other contexts, they cannot be analyzed separately in this case, as the intended sound is only indicated when read as a single unit.
The Ol Onal script was created in between 1981 and 1992 by Mahendra Nath Sardar for writing Bhumij in India.
Language Bhumij is a language of the North Munda group of the Austroasiatic languages, spoken mainly in the Indian states of Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal.
These include methods concerning the frequency of appearance of each symbol, the order in which these symbols typically appear, whether some symbols appear at the beginning or end of words, etc.
Computer encoding Unicode encodes the daṇḍas as U+0964 । DEVANAGARI DANDA and U+0965 ॥ DEVANAGARI DOUBLE DANDA.
There are minor variations in the use of the conventions between epigraphy and papyrology (and even between Greek and Latin epigraphy).
Then, we had to rebuild." André Goosse was the secretary of the Académie de Langue et de Littérature françaises de Belgique (Royal Academy of French Language and Literature in Belgium) from 1996 until 2001.
However, several writers defended the em dash as a legitimate and expressive punctuation mark with a long history in human writing.
In several varieties of vernacular Arabic, however, the kāf with no harakat is the standard second-person possessive, with the literary Arabic harakah shifted to the letter before the kāf: thus masculine "your book" in these varieties is كِتَابَك kitābak and feminine "your book" كِتَابِك kitābik.
In computing, natural sort order (or natural sorting) is a way of ordering strings that treats embedded numbers as whole numerical values rather than sequences of characters.
All scripts encoded in ISO/IEC 10646 (Unicode) are covered by ISO/IEC 14651 (and its datafile CTT) as well as Unicode collation algorithm (UCA and the associated DUCET), both of which are available at no charge.
Arrangement The Akṣarasamāmnāya puts phonemes with a similar manner of articulation together (so sibilants in 13 śa ṣa sa R, nasals in 7 ñ m ṅ ṇ n M).
Its purpose is to "indicate minor breaks in text", to call attention to a passage, or to separate sub-chapters in a book.
This is a notation that was pioneered by Berzelius, who wanted chemical formulae to more resemble algebraic notation, with brackets enclosing groups that could be multiplied (e.g.
Characters The acute ( ´ ), grave ( ` ) and circumflex ( ˆ ) accents are also used to mark High, Low, and Falling tone respectively.
Runologist Klaus Düwel has proposed two criteria for the identification of ideographic runes: A graphic argument and a semantic argument.
Medieval orthography A consistent orthography was used in the few Berber texts in existence from the eleventh to the fourteenth century CE.
A year later she compiled the book «Первая книга для чтения на тунгусском языке,» or «Әwәnkil dukuwuntin,» lit.
Ukrainian The Ukrainian language has the following digraphs: 'ьо', for [ʲɔ] and [ʲo] (see uk:Ьо) 'дз' for affricates [d͡z] and [d͡zʲ] (see uk:дз) 'дж' for affricates [d͡ʒ] and [d͡ʒʲ] (see uk:дж).
(In some typefaces, one or other or both of these characters are designed in these styles; they are not produced by overstrike or by combining diacritic.
By language Written Korean represents an unusual hybrid; each phoneme in the language is represented by a letter but the letters are packaged into "square" units of two to four phonemes, each square representing a syllable.
More than 40,000 words were written on the article's talk page (a page for editors to discuss changes to the article) before a consensus was reached to capitalize the "I".
Handsman and Ann McMullen, published in 1987 by the American Archaeological Institute in Washington, CT.
Because the ellipsis is the more common choice, an em dash for this purpose may be ambiguous in expository text, as many readers would assume interruption, although it may be used to indicate great emotion in dramatic monologue.
A comparison of the (partially) logographically coded languages Japanese and Chinese is interesting because whereas the Japanese language consists of more than 60% homographic heterophones (characters that can be read two or more different ways), most Chinese characters only have one reading.
In an era when Greek texts were typically written scripta continua, the enotikon served to show that a series of letters should be read as a single word rather than misunderstood as two separate words.
The society's website includes many claimed examples of apostrophe "abuse"; it says it is intended to help correct, rather than chide, offenders.
It uses a modified Latin script adapted to represent Tumbuka phonology and Mwangwego script as its native writing system developed by Nolence Mwangwego.
With a variety of other educational reforms, the reformed orthography resulted in a literacy rate of 90% in the country by the early 1950s.
Czech consonants that Latin did not possess would be represented by a Latin letter adorned with a diacritic dot.
Since a dependent clause cannot stand on its own as a sentence, complex sentences must also have at least one independent clause.
Historically, in Germany and Austria, thousands separators were occasionally denoted by alternating uses of commas and points, e.g.
While the word phoneme refers to the sound itself, phonogram instead refers to the written representation of the sound.
Australian Federal Court Justice Michael Wigney used an interrobang in the first paragraph of his 2018 judgment in Faruqi v Latham [2018] FCA 1328 (defamation proceedings between former Federal Opposition Leader Mark Latham and political campaigner and writer Osman Faruqi).
Some educated Jews saw Yiddish as a lower-class slang (זשאַרגאָן, zhargon, "jargon") that could be 'improved' by inserting German terms.
However, literature reviews show that the type of orthography has little effect on rates of dyslexia compared to orthographic depth.
Mirrored question mark in right-to-left scripts In Arabic and other languages that use Arabic script such as Persian, Urdu and Uyghur (Arabic form), which are written from right to left, the question mark is mirrored right-to-left from the Latin question mark.
This can be adapted to use the appropriate collation sequence for a given language by tailoring its default collation table.
Byrd commissioned Dearborn to teach her shorthand system to some members of his upcoming polar expedition.
Pierre Chantraine concurs and derives the word from κορώνη (korōnē), "crow", assigning the meaning of the epithet's use in reference to the textual symbol to the same semantic range of "curve".
However, these preferences had no statistical correlation to accuracy or speed when controlling for other variables.
Compare with: (1954) 98 Sol Jo 176 This citation reports a decision from 1954, in volume 98 of the Solicitors Journal which may be published in 1955 or later.
Mikrosha is switchable to KOI-7N1, in this mode, it can display both caps and lower-case, but in Russian only.
This list includes only a few homophones although incorrect use of homophones is a very common error; the following words from the list are all correct English words, though often incorrectly used in place of their homophones: Spell checkers do not detect incorrect use of homophones.
Isidore of Seville remarks in his Etymologiae (I.21.13) that the diple was used to mark quotations from the Bible.
According to one hypothesis, the name "sigma" may continue that of Phoenician samekh (𐤎), the letter continued through Greek xi, represented as Ξ.
On 11 April 1898, the architect and historian William Lethaby offered Edward Johnston a job teaching illuminating and calligraphy at the Central School of Arts and Crafts in London, and Johnston began to teach classes on 21 September 1899.
Additionally, in Japanese, the logographic (Chinese-derived) reading is called the on'yomi reading, and the morphographic reading (native Japanese) is called the kun'yomi reading.
The vowel triggering the change was often later lost; for example, the plural of Welsh bardd "bard, poet" is beirdd, from *bardī with i-affection.
In the Request for Comments documents that define the evolving Internet Protocol standards, the term was introduced as a noun adjunct, apparently a shortening of "internetworking" and is mostly used in this way.
"The Mide'wiwin or "Grand Medicine Society" of the Ojibwa." In Seventh Annual Report of the Bureau of Ethnology to the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1885-1886, 286–89.
An example of this in Japanese would be the grapheme 東 [east], which can be read as higashi or azuma, in addition to its logographic representation of the morpheme tō.
Ktiv Male is created to be a niqqud-less spelling that uses matres lectionis (consonant that are also used as vowels: alef, he, vav, yud) instead of the vowel pointers.
It was still used in some atolls in the South Maldives as the main script until around 70 years ago.
Delimiter Although not as common as commas or tabs, the vertical bar can be used as a delimiter in a flat file.
It is a separate letter in the Sindhi language of Pakistan, where it represents the unaspirated /k/.
'Ayn (ع‎) always used as a vowel carrier as an initial Maasina Fulfulde (Mali, Burkina Faso) The dominant Fula accent in Mali is referred to as Maasina Fulfulde.
Such a dinkus typically appears centrally aligned on a line of its own with vertical spacing before and after the device.
It was an extension of the Greek alphabet, with half a dozen additional letters for sounds not found in Greek.
Jonathan Weisman, an editor at The New York Times, included the triple parentheses in the title of his 2018 book release, (((Semitism))): Being Jewish in America in the Age of Trump.
Evil makes exaggerated use of air quotes when explaining matters to his henchmen, particularly while using real phrases he erroneously believes himself to have coined such as "laser" and "Death Star." Donald Trump used air quotes when he criticized “quote-President” Obama's refugee policies.
Additionally, linguists sometimes use ウ゚ to represent /ɴ/ in cases when speaker pronounces う at the beginning of a word as a moraic nasal.
Other examples of words where a silent consonant was left to lower the previous vowel are objecção and factor.
Career Heffernan started working in linguistics after starting as a bilingual education teacher at Santa Teresa School which inspired her to study a Diploma of Linguistics at Batchelor Institute of Indigenous Tertiary Education.
In general writing, some words are frequently misspelled, such as the incorrect spelling "concensus" for "consensus" found in numerous webpages.
The six-letter sequence ⟨schsch⟩ appears in German; for example, in the name Eschscholtz (and thus is the scientific name Eschscholtzia of the California poppy).
Geschichte der Fabeldichtung in England bis zu John Gay (1726): Nebst Neudruck von Bullokars "Fables of Æsop" 1585, "Booke at Large" 1580, "Bref Grammar for English" 1586, und "Pamphlet for Grammar" 1586.
Having seen students struggle to master the complexities of symbol-based shorthand systems and stenotype theory, Dearborn decided to design a system that would be easier to learn.
An example is modern Greek which may write the phoneme Greek pronunciation: [i] in six different ways: ⟨ι⟩, ⟨η⟩, ⟨υ⟩, ⟨ει⟩, ⟨οι⟩, and ⟨υι⟩.
De orthographia bohemica (English: On Bohemian Orthography) is a Latin work published between 1406 and 1412.
Confusion with ¥ and other characters In the Japanese encodings ISO 646-JP (a 7-bit code based on ASCII), JIS X 0201 (an 8-bit code), and Shift JIS (a multi-byte encoding which is 8-bit for ASCII), the code point 0x5C that would be used for backslash in ASCII is instead rendered as a yen sign ¥.
On the other hand, others worry that this approach could prompt educators "to abandon research-tested practices that are only just now securing a foothold in districts".
Spell-checking features are often embedded in software or services, such as a word processor, email client, electronic dictionary, or search engine.
The criteria for the use of ideographic runes and the frequency of their use by ancient rune-writers remains controversial.
ConScript Unicode Registry Tengwar are included in the unofficial ConScript Unicode Registry (CSUR), which assigns codepoints in the Private Use Area.
Spelling Rule #4 If any of the vowels, ь, й or я is at the end of a word, it is dropped in order to add another suffix.
Gill's book, written in Latin, opens with suggestions for a phonetic system of English spelling (see below).
With the advent of the bulletin board system, or BBS, and later the Internet, typing messages in all caps commonly became closely identified with "shouting" or attention-seeking behavior, and may be considered rude.
The meaning of the inscription Gábor Vékony's transcription was improved by linguist Erzsébet Zelliger.
Modern examples of defective script Languages with a long literary history have a tendency to freeze spelling at an early stage, leaving subsequent pronunciation shifts unrecorded.
The diphthongs only appears with the single form of i, as in ᠳᠠᠯᠠᠢ dalai̯ 'sea', at the end of words.
Common conventions to indicate a morphophonemic rather than phonemic representation include double slashes (⫽ ⫽) (as above, implying that the transcription is 'more phonemic than simply phonemic').
In these works, he criticises the contemporary spelling practices of his day as chaotic and illogical, and argues for a radically reformed orthography on purely phonological principles.
The service mark symbol is less commonly used than the trademark sign, especially outside the United States.
Around the early twentieth century, British artists in the Arts and Crafts movement led by Edward Johnston came to see the proportions of Roman square capitals as an attractive, timeless form of letters, the ideal for artistic use.
There is also !Boot (executed the first time the application containing it comes into view of the filer), !Sprites (icons), !Help, and others.
Arts and Crafts movement In the 19th and 20th centuries, they were a major inspiration for artisans of the Arts and Crafts movement such as Edward Johnston and Eric Gill, and so many signs and engravings created with an intentionally artistic design in the twentieth century are based on them.
This link is also found in the Vietnamese language; however, in the Vietnamese alphabet, virtually all syllables are separated by spaces, whether or not they form word boundaries.
In British English, punctuation marks such as full stops and commas are placed inside the quotation mark only if they are part of what is being quoted, and placed outside the closing quotation mark if part of the containing sentence.
(The symbol U+2248 ≈ ALMOST EQUAL TO (a double tilde) is also used in French, for example, « ≈400 mètres » means "approximately 400 meters".) Approximation Before a number, the tilde can mean "approximately": e.g., "~42" means "approximately 42".
This standard diverges from the traditional stroke order in that the upper-right dot of the 戈 component is written second to last.
The Microsoft Windows family of operating systems inherited the MS-DOS behavior and so still support either character – but individual Windows programs and sub-systems may, wrongly, only accept the backslash as a path delimiter, or may misinterpret a forward slash if it is used as such.
One of these became the Latin alphabet, which spread across Europe as the Romans expanded their republic.
Common desktop publishing and word processing applications use spell checkers and grammar checkers, which may pick up on some transcription/transposition errors; however, these tools cannot catch all errors, as some errors form new words which are grammatically correct.
Heterograms are frequent in cuneiform scripts, such as the Akkadian cuneiform, which uses Sumerian heterograms, or the Anatolian cuneiform, which uses both Sumerian and Akkadian heterograms.
Practicality Practicality of simplified characters Traditional Chinese characters are only still used primarily by those in Taiwan, Macau, Hong Kong, and many overseas communities, comprising a small minority of the Chinese-speaking population (~50 million people).
Shakespeare's play Romeo and Juliet contains wordplay that relies on a similar sound between the words "soul" and "soles", allowing confidence that the similar pronunciation between the terms today also existed in Shakespeare's time.
Founded in 1967 as The Journal of Typographical Research by Merald Wrolstad, occasional Visible Language issues are co-edited with a guest editor-author.
Spacing and parentheses In print, a thin space was traditionally placed before a colon and a thick space after it.
However, since this is an ambiguous stimulus, a matching at the orthographic/lexical ("mental dictionary") level is necessary before the stimulus can be disambiguated, and the correct pronunciation can be chosen.
A subsequent draft on May 12, 1966, places the vertical bar in column 7 alongside regional entry codepoints, and formed the basis for the original draft proposal used by the International Standards Organisation.
Single bars can also represent the beginning and end of measures (|: A / / / | D / / / | E / / / :|).
ISSN 0514-7336 External links The letters of the Celtiberian script A transcription of a Botorrita plaque Detailed map of the Pre-Roman Peoples of Iberia (around 200 BCE) The Celtiberian script - Jesús Rodríguez Ramos Ferrer, Joan; Moncunill, Noemí; Velaza, Javier (2015).
As of 2015, names for other delimiter-separated naming conventions for multiple-word identifiers have not been standardized, although some terms have increasing levels of usage, such as lisp-case, kebab-case, SCREAMING_SNAKE_CASE, and more.
Words that are spelled with letters that were never pronounced or that were not pronounced for many generations or even hundreds of years have increasingly been pronounced as written, especially since the arrival of mandatory schooling and universal literacy.
Multigraphs representing a single phoneme are normally treated as combinations of separate letters, not as graphemes in their own right.
The Jurchen script has no relation to the Manchu alphabet, as it was derived from the Khitan script, itself derived from Chinese characters.
In Classical Chinese, a word and a character were almost the same thing, so that word dividers would have been superfluous.
Some words that refer to persons of the Christian Trinity begin with a single capital (e.g., Skaber "Creator", Christum "Christ", and Faderen "the Father"), but so do all other nouns (e.g., Ting "Things").
Traditional stroke order: Widely used in Imperial China, currently used in the Chinese cultural sphere secondary to each region's governmental standards.
With short stem and single bow, vala, it represents /w/, or /v/ if that has the phonological behaviour of a sonorant (e.g.
In the practical orthography of Central Alaskan Yup'ik, the tie is used in the digraphs ‹ u͡g, u͡r › and the trigraph ‹ u͡rr ›.
For example, 318830=DEBBIE, 7718=BILL, 46137=LEIgh, 5107=LOIS, 31773=ELLIE, 31717173=ELI LILIE (in Polish: lily flowers of Elisabeth), 302=ZOE and 451713 317718=BILLIE EILISh.
(A specific geometric shape that represents any particular grapheme in a given typeface is called a glyph.) In orthographic and linguistic notation, a particular glyph (character) is represented as a grapheme (is used in its graphemic sense) by enclosing it within angle brackets: e.g.
Affection (also known as vowel affection, infection or vowel mutation), in the linguistics of the Celtic languages, is the change in the quality of a vowel under the influence of the vowel of the following final syllable.
Poetry A double vertical bar ⟨||⟩ or ⟨‖⟩ is the standard caesura mark in English literary criticism and analysis.
The Romanized Popular Alphabet created for the Hmong languages includes three tetragraphs: nplh, ntsh, and ntxh, which represent complex consonants.
Richtiges und gutes Deutsch: Das Wörterbuch der sprachlichen Zweifelsfälle [Correct and Good German: Usage Guide].
However, at least one major style guide hyphenates spelled-out fractions invariably (whether adjective or noun).
In typography, an asterism, ⁂, is a typographic symbol consisting of three asterisks placed in a triangle, which is used for a variety of purposes.
Ortografja polska : podręcznik do nauki pisowni polskiej opracowany, według głównych podstaw, uchwalonych przez Akademję Umiejętności w Krakowie.
It in turn has several application areas within which it is specialised: SignWriting, for sign languages, the most developed so far.
Garg, the merchants of India used special scripts and each region had its own particular name for their script, such as Mundi, Modi, Mudiya, Mahajani, and Sarafi.
A meme known as "Mocking SpongeBob" more broadly popularized using alternating caps to convey a mocking tone starting in May 2017, leading to alternating caps becoming a mainstream method of conveying mockery in text.
Yiddish origin Some words or suffixes of Yiddish origin or pronunciation are marked with a geresh, e.g.
⟨кӏкӏ⟩ is used in Avar for [kʼː], the 'strong' homologue of ⟨кӏ⟩ [kʼ], the ejective (⟨ӏ⟩) homologue of ⟨к⟩ [k].
Excepteur sint occaecat cupidatat non proident, sunt in culpa qui officia deserunt mollit anim id est laborum.
Registered trademarks are indicated using the registered trademark symbol, ®, and in many jurisdictions it is unlawful or illegal to use the registered trademark symbol with a mark that has not been registered.
The Ministry of Education's manifesto specified that Crown Letters may be used with Naskh and Rok’a scripts.
ISO 646 and ASCII incorporated many of the overprinting lower-case diacritics from typewriters, including tilde.
Russian grammar goes so far as to dictate that the spelling rules must take precedence over any other rule.
In addition, switching to all caps may make text appear hectoring and obnoxious for cultural reasons, since all-capitals is often used in transcribed speech to indicate that the speaker is shouting.
The decoration of insular initials, especially large ones, was generally abstract and geometrical, or featured animals in patterns.
Differences between the old and the new orthography The soft sign ⟨ь⟩ /ʲ/ is no longer written when denoting assimilation of 'softness': ⟨песня⟩, ⟨свет⟩, instead of ⟨песьня⟩, ⟨сьвет⟩.
A further graphic example of this distinction is seen in the official announcement, on 14 November 1997, of a change in editorial policy for the prominent Yiddish periodical, פֿאָרווערטס (Forverts, Yiddish Forward).
Also during the 18th century in England, reading novels was often criticized as a time-wasting pastime, when contrasted with the cultural seriousness carried by reading history, classical literature or poetry.
Evenki itself is spelled eweŋki, despite Mongolian orthography usually prohibiting the letter combination ŋk.
Systems include: BGN/PCGN (1947): Transliteration system (United States Board on Geographic Names & Permanent Committee on Geographical Names for British Official Use).
In addition, Unicode also defines U+204B ⁋ REVERSED PILCROW SIGN, U+2761 ❡ CURVED STEM PARAGRAPH SIGN ORNAMENT, and U+2E3F ⸿ CAPITULUM.
However, in adjectival pronouns the ending was spelled -ого or -его: его, нашего, того, какого (except pronouns ending with -ый or -ій in the nominative: котораго, всякаго).
Capital Crown Letters are different from small letters in a sense that they possess a loop—or an upside-down لا—on top of them; letters that may connect to the next letter also connect to that loop, whereas letters that do not connect to the next letter also don't connect to that loop.
It can also make a quantifier like {x,y}, + or * match as few characters as possible, making it lazy, e.g.
However, there is regional variation, with for example the u being pronounced in a few Brazilian Portuguese accents qüestão, but not in European Portuguese questão.
Kaf/khaf is the only Hebrew letter that can take a vowel in its word-final form, which is pronounced after the consonant, that vowel being the qamatz.
It is created by rotating right (clockwise) the wavy dash symbol (U+3030 〰 WAVY DASH) to form a vertical wave-like pattern.
The Slovak alphabet uses the acute (lowercase á é í ó ú ý ĺ ŕ, uppercase Á É Í Ó Ú Ý Ĺ Ŕ), caron (lowercase č ď ľ ň š ť ž dž, uppercase Č Ď Ľ Ň Š Ť Ž DŽ), umlaut (ä Ä) and circumflex accent (ô Ô).
While bopomofo is not a mainstream writing system, it is often used in ways similar to a romanization system, for aiding pronunciation and as an input method for Chinese characters on computers and cellphones.
IETF language tag The IETF language tags have registered subtag codes for the different orthographies: el-monoton for monotonic Greek.
Rashi's commentary states that the name of the city of Haran at the end of the Torah portion Noach also occurs with an inverted nun, but this is not found in existing texts.
In linguistics, the donor principle refers primarily to the observance of the original spelling of a loanword from the original ("donor") language.
The journal has covered the subject of concrete poetry, the Fluxus art movement, painted text, textual criticism, the abstraction of symbols, articulatory synthesis and text, and the evolution of the page from print to on-screen display.
Tolkien had used multiple modes for English, including full writing and ómatehtar alphabetic modes, phonetic full modes and phonetic ómatehtar modes known from documents published after his death.
In rhetoric, a parenthesis (pl.: parentheses; from the Ancient Greek word παρένθεσις parénthesis 'injection, insertion', literally '(a) putting in beside') or parenthetical phrase is an explanatory or qualifying word, phrase, clause, or sentence inserted into a passage.
This causes some issues for developers and power users, because most file systems in other Unix-like environments are case-sensitive, and, for example, a source code tree for software for Unix-like systems might have both a file named Makefile and a file named makefile in the same directory.
The gesture was used routinely in the TV show Celebrity Charades (1979) as the standard signal for a quote or phrase.
The word ideogram has historically often been used to describe Egyptian hieroglyphs, Sumerian cuneiform, and Chinese characters.
See also Vertical bar – Typographic symbol, | Pilcrow – Symbol (¶) to identify a paragraph, the latin character-set equivalent of the double daṇḍa Footnotes References External links The dictionary definition of danda at Wiktionary The dictionary definition of दण्ड at Wiktionary
Representation of the sign is an artistic decision within the overall design language of the typeface (or computer font): the two more commonly seen forms are shown here.
The identity of this rune was debated by scholars until a photograph of it was republished that, according to runologist Bernard Mees, clearly indicates it to have been the rune ᛟ (*Ōþala).
It is used in a number of Polynesian alphabets as the letter ʻokina to represent the glottal stop, and in the Uzbek alphabet to form the letters Oʻ and Gʻ, which correspond to Ў and Ғ respectively in the Uzbek Cyrillic alphabet.
This variant (briefly) replaced the continuous vertical bar in the 1967 version (only) of the ASCII standard.
As for the use of the nasal signs, there are two variants of the Celtiberian script: In the eastern variant, the excluded nasal sign was the Iberian sign ḿ, while in the western variant, the excluded nasal sign was the Iberian sign m.
If the /h/ is in between two similar vowels, the letter ⟨h⟩ must be maintained instead of using ⟨'⟩ However, if the /h/ is in between two different vowels, the letter ⟨h⟩ can be either removed or maintained 3.
One of my acquaintances, a poet and literary critic, once jokingly said: 'I prefer to read dictionaries than poems.
In case of quoted material inside a quotation, rules and most noted style manuals prescribe the use of different kinds of quotation marks.
Central Asian variant In the Arabic orthographies of Uyghur, Kazakh and Kyrgyz, the letter fā’ has a descender in the final and isolated positions, much like the Maghrebi version of qāf.
The event raises money for their free writing programs and raises awareness for the value of correct punctuation.
Since 2006, the new rules have become compulsory in Bavarian and North Rhine-Westphalian state schools as well.
Within Usenet the term snake_case was first seen in the Ruby community in 2004, used by Gavin Kistner, writing: BTW...what *do* you call that naming style?
From the inside out, each parenthesis represents perceived Jewish involvement in mass media, mass immigration, and global Zionism.
He was one of many, including Desiderius Erasmus, who felt there was a need for such a punctuation mark, but Wilkins' proposal, like the other attempts, failed to take hold.
Greenough and Son, and the statutes of the United Kingdom's colony Nova Scotia also used the long s as late as 1816.
Rubin encourages appreciators of correct punctuation and spelling to send in pictures of errors spotted in everyday life.
In 2013, the List of Commonly Used Standard Chinese Characters (通用规范汉字表) was published to replace the List of Commonly Used Characters in Modern Chinese as the new standard for Chinese characters in the People's Republic of China.
Following this, she went on the teach at the Institute for Aboriginal Development and Yipirinya School.
A separate Unicode point, ISO/IEC 10646 standard (U+2E12) (⸒), exists for the hypodiastole but is intended only to reproduce its historical occurrence in Greek texts.
In his system, the asteriskos marked lines that were duplicated elsewhere, and when combined with the obelos, indicated lines considered to be spurious duplications.
Pazend had the following characteristics, both of which are to be contrasted with Pahlavi, which is one of the other systems used to write Middle Persian: Pazend was a variant of the Avestan alphabet (Din dabireh), which was a phonetic alphabet.
eidheann "ivy", feidheartha "penniless", leigheas "healing", deideigheanna "soft toys", deighealfaidh "will divide".
Generally, the more ancient the text, the more numerous the phonetic loans, since separate characters were slowly introduced as the written language evolved, in order to disambiguate these loans.
Developers such as Maria Mariani and Random House rushed OEM packages or end-user products into the rapidly expanding software market.
The dinkus is used specifically in this capacity within the sphere of lawmaking, particularly for city ordinances.
See also Roger Casement, "hanged on a comma" due to contested non-punctuation in a law "Oxford Comma", a 2008 song by Vampire Weekend which begins "Who gives a fuck about an Oxford comma?" Syndeton, the conjunctive phrasing that may or may not contain a serial comma == References ==
In particular, filename globbing uses "?" as a substitute for any one character, as opposed to the asterisk, "*", which matches zero or more characters in a string.
This is exemplified in the poem Thresholes by Lara Mimosa Montes, which frequently uses a circular dinkus, ○ , as a form of "punctuation at the level of the full text, rather than the phrase or the sentence".
In the history of modern European literature, Trissino occupies a prominent place because of his tragedy Sophonisba (c.
This referential concept is linked to the dependency hypothesis that claims that writing merely depicts speech.
In 2006, the society called for apostrophes to be used in the names of Harrods, Selfridges, and Currys.
God and its cognates likely had a general, predominantly plural or collective sense prior to conversion to Christianity.
Colon before explanation I guess I can say I had a rough weekend: I had chest pain and spent all Saturday and Sunday in the emergency room.
Compare commas, em dashes and parentheses (respectively) when no internal commas intervene: The food, which was delicious, reminded me of home.
Nun is the fourteenth letter of the Semitic abjads, including Phoenician nūn 𐤍, Hebrew nūn נ‎, Aramaic nūn 𐡍‎, Syriac nūn ܢ, and Arabic nūn ن‎ (in abjadi order).
It is ultimately based heavily on an orthographic standard created in the early 12th century by a document referred to as The First Grammatical Treatise, author unknown.
For example, the Malay kata-kata ("words", from single kata) can be shortened to kata2, and jalan-jalan ("to walk around", from single jalan) can be shortened to jalan2.
History In 1905 a lost missionary named Alfred Snelling and his Chuukese crew landed on Eauripik, a Woleaian-speaking atoll 100 km to the southwest of Woleai proper.
Blissymbols differ from most of the world's major writing systems in that the characters do not correspond at all to the sounds of any spoken language.
In most cases, lines are added to the letters to represent related sounds that are considered more "severe" or "harsh".
The exact origins of this language remain uncertain, but scholars and historians agree that it was created in the early 20th century by local prisoners to communicate with each other without being understood by guards.
In 2006, the Bamum Scripts and Archives Project embarked on a project to create the first usable Bamum computer font.
According to a legend, it was presented to him in his trance along with a text named the "Shakok Salai Thiren" (written in this script).
In theory he would create the root first and work forwards to the word; but if the word already existed, he worked backwards from there.
The symbol is specified with a three-digit value whereas all other attributes use a two-digit value (e.g., 01-01-001-01-01-01).
It has been translated into Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, and German by fans, and came out in book form in March 2010.
Dearborn initially franchised teaching and then sold the rights which passed between various companies who made further changes and marketed it throughout the US and in various languages (e.g., Spanish).
Esperanto organisations like Universal Esperanto Association do not contribute to Vikipedio but support it by providing chambers at Esperanto conventions for Vikipedio presentations and trainings.
See also Globish (Nerrière) References External links Globish (Parallel English with neat spelling) Globish (Parallel English) Principles Glimpses of Globish (Parallel English)
Instead of opting for an habitual calque of the English portmanteau of wiki and encyclopedia, the Volapük Wikipedia's community preferred to devise a neologism, since a borrowing of the prefix wiki- would be inconsistent with Volapük morphology.
862 to 873): Abstract words, anyone of which can take the place of a noun, adjective or corresponding adverb.
The dates of publication of The Quarry were brought forward at Banks's request, to 20 June 2013 in the UK and 25 June 2013 in the US and Canada.
The theory underlying Interlingua posits an international vocabulary, a large number of words and affixes that are present in a wide range of languages.
The syntax is heavily dependent on sign, but sign is used for some lexical words as well, typically for physical verbs such as 'hold'.
Higley in her book Hildegard of Bingen's Unknown Language: An edition, translation and discussion (Palgrave Macmillan 2007), The New Middle Ages ISBN 1-4039-7673-2, ISBN 978-1-4039-7673-4) where she discusses Lingua Ignota in the context of constructed languages up to the present day.
[a collection of proverbs, entire book is written in the language, with no English] External links PanAfrican L10n page on Runyakitara
This mixed-origin theory was brought forward by scholars as early as the seventeenth and eighteenth century, in the works of Francisci a Mesgnien Meninski and Jean-Benjamin de La Borde.
His book, La bicicletta incantata, was made into a movie by Elisabetta Sgarbi, editor in chief of Bompiani publishing house and art producer.
Other languages Other languages have similar coded forms but reversing the order of syllables rather than phonemes.
He created a family of invented languages for Elves, carefully designing the differences between them to reflect their distance from their imaginary common origin.
Von Glasersfeld coined the term "lexigram" in 1971, created the first 120 of them, and designed the grammar that regulated their combination.
As with the infinitive, -i causes an a or o in the stem to umlaut to e: pedin, pedim, pedir, from pad-.
Morganwg suggested that he had collected some of Siôn and Bradford's manuscripts, while the majority, including all of Lewys Morgannwg's sources, were lost.
It was also reportedly a major influence on other creations such as Hârn and the Skyrealms of Jorune.
The introduction of support for the Esperanto alphabet by Brooke Vibber, an Esperanto speaker and later Wikimedia Foundation's first employee, in January 2002 has paved the way for alphabets of languages other than English and initiated the transition of the whole Wikipedia to Unicode.
Spocanian (Dutch: Spokaans) is a constructed language, created by the Dutch linguist Rolandt Tweehuysen.
Later in the 20th and 21st centuries, other projects have been launched as well, none of which has ever been successful, though: In 2000, a new project was presented on the Internet by Aaron Chapman, Folksstem ("De Nue Germane Kunstsprak").
For speakers to break them up with vowels, the vowels are all high (one of the four vowels /i ɪ u ʊ/), and match the subsequent vowel in ATR, backness, nasality and tone.
Although the National Convention in 1792 had planned to transfer his remains to the Panthéon, he was reburied in the Abbey of Saint-Germain-des-Prés in 1819, missing a finger and the skull.
In his Nobel lecture, Fo referred to the 16th-century Italian playwright Ruzzante's invention of a similar language based on Italian dialects, Latin, Spanish, German and onomatopoeic sounds.
Some of its characteristics, including tones, phonotactics, expressions for masses vs sets, non-existence of metalinguistic negation, etc., received criticism.
Kenneth Searight (born Arthur Kenneth Searight; 15 November 1883 – 28 February 1957) was the creator of the international auxiliary language Sona.
Vocative phrases come before the main sentence and are marked with o at the end of the phrase, after the addressee.
The unification of science movement of the 1930s, led by Otto Neurath, Rudolf Carnap, and Charles W.
A notable innovation in Eskayan romanised orthography is the letter combination 'chd' which represents the sound /d͡ʒ/.
Due to the paucity of syllables, it is necessary to leave a brief pause between words so that each word remains clearly separate.
As a result, only generalizations can be made about the language's use, which may not reflect the usage of all individuals.
They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.
Although the Descartes family was Roman Catholic, the Poitou region was controlled by the Protestant Huguenots.
Three Android apps are also offered, which can output text in chosen scripts using a Bharati-based keyboard and handwriting, and transliterate other scripts into Bharati.
Šatrovački was initially developed by Roma and various marginal subcultures and criminal groups in Yugoslavia, who employed it as a device of secret communication.
ng (present continual): mó sòngí 'sóngà "I sing a song" → mó ng sòngí 'sóngà "I am singing a song" tí (perfect): mò jòndú "I sit" → mò tí jòndú "I have sat" The particle lá is used in a slightly different way, creating an adjective that functions similarity to an active past participle.
The name Yaminjeongeum is a blend of Hunminjeongeum and Yagael (야갤); Yagael is short for Gungnae Yagu Gallery (국내야구 갤러리; 國內野球 갤러리), the domestic baseball league section of DC Inside.
Katakana is designed for a language with a basic CV syllable structure, but Ainu contains many CVC syllables which cannot easily be adapted to this syllabary.
Personal life Ryan was married to Dublin-born producer Nicky Ryan until his death in September 2025.
Vocabulary The Research Team at Sejong University claims that, as the number of developed lexical items has exceeded 9,600, the lexical inventory of Unish provides a sufficient base for everyday conversation.
The name 'Budinos' originates in Herodotus' Histories which, according to one of the authors of the language, Yuri Perevoshchikov, describes a pastoral tribe named 'the Budins' by the river Don.
Le, ri, and ma can all be used as reduced forms of the singular, dual, and paucal of their corresponding full-length personal pronouns.
Relations soon improved, however, as it became clear that the IALA intended to be as impartial as possible by familiarizing itself with all existing planned languages.
In 1916, Ostwald published the fifth volume of his Monistic Sunday Sermons (German: Monistische Sonntagspredigten), wherein he introduced the language in its 36th chapter, entitled "Weltdeutsch".
The message is written with only four basic symbols representing the binary digits one and zero and open and close brackets.
Some factions argue that words in these spoken tongues should simply be written the way they are pronounced, while others insist that the purity of language demands that the transformation remain visible when the words are imparted to paper.
The girls were left in the care of a grandmother who met their physical needs but did not play or interact with them.
The Drushek are culturally and linguistically homogeneous, but there are other languages spoken on Kryslan, including Umod and Elasin, by two other sentient species,.
There are no affixes of gender or plurality, both of which can be indicated with particles or other words if necessary.
'World-German') was a proposal for a German-based zonal international auxiliary language by chemist and interlinguist Wilhelm Ostwald.
This more elaborate non-linear system combines a logographic script with an abugida for writing syllables (especially for proper names).
Visser argued that "interlinguists throughout the world should become friends", and his magazine is credited with improving understanding.
The author presents a world-wide collection of case studies in visible language signage systems, including LoCoS.
At the Second International Interlanguage Congress, held in Geneva in 1931, IALA began to break new ground; 27 recognized linguists signed a testimonial of support for IALA's research programme.
Volapük has no official method for avoiding the diacritic, but sometimes they are substituted with ay, oy and uy.
Kaj ankoraŭ plej malfacile ne estas krei interlingvon, sed ĝin vivigi, kaj tion sukcesis nur Esperanto; forlasi la bazon Esperantan kaj la grandegan laboron jam faritan de Esperantistoj estus vera frenezaĵo, des pli ke la Esperantistoj neniam akceptos lingvon tute novan.
Seamus Rawles Malliagh (born 13 June 1996), known by his recording alias Iglooghost, is an English electronic music producer and songwriter based in London.
They formed the basis of the ISO 639-3 language codes, but some SIL identifiers that had been retired before the establishment of ISO 639-3 were later assigned to different languages within ISO.
Spoken Barsoomian has mostly lexical words, with the equivalent of grammatical words such as prepositions and pronouns conveyed telepathically.
The Loxian Games and the Unity forum Ryan has been the coordinator of two on-line competitions at Enya's official website, enya.com—the First and Second Loxian Games, which have both been completed.
Clearly, the words 食 and 饭 are each split into two sounds, the initial and the rime, thus 食 [sit] is made up of the initial of 手 [s] and the rime of 习 [it], and similarly, 饭 [fan] is [f] from 花 and [an] from 散.
In Old Sindarin, there was a vowel similar to German ö (IPA: [œ]), which Tolkien mostly transcribed as œ.
The upcoming premiere of a second version of the song, featuring a "well-known" artist, was announced, but never materialized.
External links James Cooke Brown at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database James Cooke Brown at BoardGameGeek
Each identification number specifies six attributes—category, group, symbol, variation, fill, and rotation—as dash-separated values.
Moreover, Esperanto is quicker to learn than other languages, usually in a third up to a fifth of the time.
External links Desatir, or, Sacred writings of the ancient Persian prophets : in the original tongue ...
De Swaan has been calculating the Q-values of the official European Union (EU) languages since 1957 to explain the acquisition of languages by EU citizens in different phases.
He moved with his parents and brother to the United States in 1956 and grew up on Long Island, New York.
The main character of "The Witcher" is Geralt of Rivia, trained as a monster hunter since childhood.
Lang also released a supplementary dictionary, the Toki Pona Dictionary (referred to as lipu ku), in July 2021, describing the language as used by its community of speakers.
In the video calls, each participant selected a mutually unintelligible language from as many others as possible, and the use of English was generally prohibited.
Practical use Various experiments with Interslavic practical use are being made: namely, short songs and film translations.
A "megafeature" cut of the entire miniseries was aired on Channel Four television in the UK in December 2005.
Šatrovački (Serbo-Croatian pronunciation: [ʃâtroʋatʃkiː]; Serbian Cyrillic: шатровачки) or šatra (Serbo-Croatian pronunciation: [ʃâtra]; Serbian Cyrillic: шатра) is an argot within the Bosnian, Serbian and Croatian languages comparable to verlan in French or vesre in Spanish.
These words follow what they modify, but when used at the start of a sentence, they modify the entire sentence.
Early life Roma Shane Forbes was born in Belfast, Northern Ireland, and grew up in the area of Castlereagh.
The script demarcates the subject and object of a sentence by orienting the noun in a semagram relative to the verb.
(1950s PRC) – changed the script used to write the standard language by introducing Simplified Chinese characters (later adopted by Singapore and Malaysia, but Traditional Chinese characters remain in use in Taiwan, Hong Kong, Macau, and various overseas Chinese communities).
Alphabets Unlike the Brahmic abugidas (such as Devanagari, Bengali, or Odia), Mundari Bani is a true alphabet.
In a letter to Hildegard, her friend and provost Wolmarus, fearing that Hildegard would soon die, asks ubi tunc vox inauditae melodiae?
Smith, link to Vükiped on their websites, and it is predominantly featured on the official website of Flenef Bevünetik Volapüka ("The International Community of Friends of Volapük"), maintained by volapükologists Ralph Midgley and Michael Everson.
The author of the novel, Anthony Burgess, also believed the phrase "as queer as a clockwork orange" was Cockney slang having heard it in a London pub in 1945, and subsequently named it in the title of his book.
When attempting to translate to it, as she did for Wilkins' language, she finds the task practically impossible.
As well as goal attainment is also a focus within intercultural competence and it involves the communicator to convey a sense of communication appropriateness and effectiveness in diverse cultural contexts.
In the summer of 1960, Lyons went to Indiana University to work in a machine translation project; he was chosen because of his expertise in Russian and linguistics.
Verbs and pronouns Verbs inflect only for tense and aspect: Indicative present in -a, future -u, past (imparfait) -e (-é), present perfect (parfait) -i, past perfect -o.
Today, the books (and subsequent films) are so well known in Sweden, and also in Norway, that the language is part of the culture of schoolchildren.
The phonology of Yoruba, however, suggests that Guosa vowels do not form diphthongs, as almost all the words with adjacent vowels come from Yoruba, in which all vowels are pronounced separately.
The book includes photos from Star Trek episodes and films, but does not reference the Star Trek novels.
Morphology Wenja nouns and adjectives are not marked for number or gender, but they can be inflected by six clitic postpositions, which are only attached to the main noun they modify.
A number of Esperantists did migrate to the movement, including a number of influential leaders of the movement, but most ordinary speakers did not support the Ido reforms.
La ricerca della lingua perfetta nella cultura europea (The Search for the Perfect Language (the Making of Europe); trans.
Another concern of the Chibcha councils is the commercialization of their linguistic heritage through courses or talks at public events, schools, squares and other places, whose members present themselves as legitimate representatives of the current Chibchas, or as their direct descendants.
The 1951 debut of Interlingua weakened Interlingue-Occidental, which until then had been unchallenged in the field of naturalistic planned auxiliary languages.
It is a universal and simple language, and as Ota put it, "It should emphasize the importance of communication among all the people of all the countries of the world." Symbols There are eight major symbols in LoCoS.
The apex of the triangle or chevron corresponds to vowel height or frontedness, with high vowels /i/ and /u/ pointing upwards and the low vowel /a/ pointing downwards.
They researched languages such as Arabic, ancient Asian languages, and dialects from North Africa to gain inspiration, but found that this would cause Heptapod B to resemble human language more closely than alien language.
In 2007, Lang said that at least 100 people speak Toki Pona fluently and estimated that a few hundred have a basic knowledge of the language.
During his studies in Klagenfurt, he came under the influence of Anton Martin Slomšek, a Roman Catholic priest and author who propagated the use of Slovene in the public sphere.
Articles Wede's definite article was t (plural ti), and the indefinite article eine (no plural indefinite article existed).
For example, omulenzi 'boy' becomes imulenzi 'boys'; similarly, oluga is 'language' and aluga 'languages'.
Theatre Banks was involved in the stage production The Curse of Iain Banks, written by Maxton Walker and performed at the Edinburgh Fringe festival in 1999.
Early circumstances Both parents were employed (although later characterized by The San Diego Tribune as living on "food stamps and welfare") and spent many hours away from home.
On January 15, ITV announced that its website was working properly, but was receiving frequent error messages, not formally restarting until January 28.
Tolkien: more than twenty languages including Quenya, Sindarin, Khuzdul; see Languages constructed by J.
An inverted speech form similar to Totoiana also exists in the French language and is known as verlan (from l'envers, "the inverse", but inverted).
Today, English is the only example of a hypercentral language as the standard for science, literature, business, and law, as well as being the most widely spoken second language.
Phase G The seventh and final system, called Mfemfe ("new") or A Ka U Ku Mfemfe, was developed around 1918.
Kuhler would often wear costumes he had designed and sewn himself as Rocaterranian fashion or uniforms.
Punctuation marks are not mandatory; such notions as question or exclamation are expressed with words rather than unpronounced symbols.
She recounts her experiences of learning Esperanto in a full immersion summer course held at the University of San Diego, recounting dialogue with Esperantists that she met there.
Herbert's environmental work in Oregon formed the basis of the speculative ecological work of the Fremen, which parallels real-world efforts and tactics of sand dune management.
Famous Grammelot also include Charlie Chaplin's faux-German in The Great Dictator and Monty Python's Knights Who Say Ni.
Many small grammatical words are also replaced, such as ey for kaj "and", be for ĉe "at", and ki for ol "than".
ESF also sponsored the creation of the documentary film The Universal Language, and produced the video course Esperanto—Pasporto al la Tuta Mondo (available on YouTube).
Most importantly, proponents of this view reject the idea that emerging insights into how English is used as a lingua franca can provide useful input with regard to the aims and methods of English language teaching.
Interlinguistically neutral (thus "la langue internationale"), CDELI aims to preserve documents in and about all kinds of constructed languages: it offers, in addition to Esperanto books and periodicals, the richest collections of materials about Volapük and Interlingue, among others.
The script was invented by Ong Kommandam for conveying secret messages that could not be deciphered by the French or Siamese forces that had divided Laos.
To write it, Hildegard used an alphabet of 23 letters denominated litterae ignotae (Latin for "unknown letters").
The book is split into four parts: "The Dream of a Universal Language", "Doktoro Esperanto and the Shadow People", "The Heretic, the Priestess, and the Invisible Empire", and "Esperanto in a Global Babel" – each contains sections concerning both interlinguistics and Schor's travels with Esperanto.
Animate to Harmony: The Independent Animator's Guide To Toon Boom (2014) - Guide to using Toon Boom's Animate and Harmony software.
At one point in his military career he was classified as an interpreter competent in "Arabic, Baluchi, Persian and Pushtu." Searight retired to Rome in 1926.
The Esperanto Wikimania, a gathering held in 2011 to celebrate the encyclopedia's 10th anniversary, has been subsidized by the host city of Svitavy (Czech Republic) and the Pardubice Region and covered by Czech Television.
2004: In the Korean amateur animation named Esperanto directed by Zacho Oh – which received a prize in the Digital Content Grand Prix – the final sentence that can be heard in the film is in Esperanto.
The limited schedule consisted of three half-hour programs, which were repeated one after the other, a total of 18 times a day.
In 1991, BCI published a reference guide containing 2300 vocabulary items and detailed rules for the graphic design of additional characters, so they settled a first set of approved Bliss-words for general use.
Their birth was normal, and they were able to lift their heads and make eye contact with their parents within hours after birth, but both soon suffered apparent seizures.
Rien subata avec plu Ardoru que occasiono, pur puver Ei donner Provos reel tis Paroles, Ei montrer par Effetos avec was respectfu, et Amitia eta, e restua Ei adonne.
Deseret Alphabet (1854-)- Early LDS Church effort to restore all language to the pure Adamic language used until the Tower of Babel.
References Further reading "Provisional notes on cataloging in the A-ka-u-ku (Bamum) script, in the Shümom and Bamum languages | Yale University Library".
He stated that Coppola "made a film he would have wanted to see, with energy borrowed from his heroes.
His trilogy "Infinity Hold", "Kill All the Lawyers", and "Keep the Law", was released in 2002 in a single paperback volume titled Infinity Hold 3.
Furthermore, duplicate letters in a word, unless they form digraphs in context, have specific functions: Consonants: Double consonants like /mm/ correspond to [m.m], representing a double sound.
Cosmoglotta continued to report into 1946 on who had survived the war, who among them were ready to participate again and those who were still out of touch.
Some of his claims about Japanese religion seem to also be derived from a misinterpretation of the Chinese idea of three teachings, as he claims that there were three different forms of "idolatry" practiced in Japan.
Etymological studies Many entirely coincidental word similarities have been documented and regularly occur between languages regardless of how related or unrelated the languages may be; these are commonly disregarded in the academic study of etymology.
Tools-driven controlled language environments enable the automation of many editing tasks and provide objective quality metrics for the authoring process.
However, his lifework – at least in the literary world – consisted primarily of Simon Templar Saint adventures, which were presented in the novel, novella, and short-story formats over the next 35 years.
Within their fictional world, these languages do function as natural languages, helping to identify certain races or people groups and set them apart from others.
The study of Boolean algebras and group theory in the 19th century proved correct Leibniz's intuition that algebraic methods could be used to reason about qualitative and non-numerical phenomena.
She describes these on her site with examples of the potential uses of each within the context of larger sentences, with the abbreviation "NP" for "Noun Phrase".
Novial In 1928 Ido's major intellectual supporter, the Danish linguist Otto Jespersen, abandoned Ido, and published his own planned language, Novial.
Esperanto speakers have also been involved in the founding of several other language versions of Wikipedia (Czech, Slovak, Ossetian, Swahili).
Peterson - Dothraki, Valyrian, Kastithanu (Castithan), L'Irathi (Irathient), Indojisnen, Sondiv, Shiväisith, Lishepus, Trigedasleng, Noalath, Inha, Munja'kin John H.
These organizations often write their own dictionaries and grammar books, thus affecting the materials which students are exposed to in schools.
It is more widespread in urban areas, such as Belgrade and Novi Sad (Serbia), Zagreb (Croatia) and Sarajevo (Bosnia and Herzegovina).
"Teach Yourself Speedwords" (1951, 1962, 1971, 1973) A more accessible version focused on note taking and note making called Dutton Speedwords was published in 1951 in the Teach Yourself series published by English Universities Press as a hardcover.
Yuantang is a subdialect spoken by Hakka speakers at Yuantang (Chinese: 苑塘), a village in southern China.
It exaggerates stereotypical (mostly phonetic and orthographic) traits of older stages of German and some modern (especially Upper German) dialects in an impressionistic way, rather than in a rigorously systematic fashion.
According to Reporters Without Borders, the block was an attempt to stem videos showing Chinese repression of the Tibetan population in the run-up to the 50th anniversary of the Tibetan uprising of 10 March 1959, and to block access to the popular Grass Mud Horse video posted in early March.
Even verbs can be marked for gender, with the meaning of performing the action in a masculine or feminine way.
Title and history Zangezi is the name of a prophet in the work, the name being composed from Kalmyk word 'zyange', that in Kalmyk language means "messenger".
Scholars debate the degree to which Hebrew remained a spoken vernacular following the Babylonian captivity, when Old Aramaic became the predominant international language in the region.
History of the Ancient and Modern Hebrew Language by David Steinberg Short History of the Hebrew Language by Chaim Menachem Rabin Academy of the Hebrew Language: How a Word is Born
For example, Ubbi Dubbi, Bicycle, and Allspråket all work by inserting a code syllable before the vowel in each syllable.
In Blissymbols, they are marked respectively by a small square symbol, a small cone symbol, and a small V or inverted cone.
It has a largely Western European vocabulary, based largely on the Romance languages, with heavy influence from English.
Auxiliary languages International auxiliary languages International auxiliary languages (IAL) are languages constructed to provide easy, fast, and/or improved communication among all human beings, or a significant portion, without necessarily replacing native languages.
There are few ligatures that combine to form new sounds, and there are conjunct consonants that are used as well by stacking in some cases.
After the 1919 March First Movement protests, the Japanese colonial government temporarily eased suppression of Korean culture in a phenomenon now dubbed cultural rule.
Language code The ISO 639-3 standard draft used to have the code eur for this constructed language, but it was retired on 16 January 2009, with the reason “Nonexistent”.
In order to do this, the Project examined hundreds of important documents transcribed in the current and most widely employed variant of the Bamum script: A-ka-u-ku (after its first four characters).
The on-off switch is replaced with a reset button; the Furby turns itself off after one minute of inactivity.
Variations of rhyming slang were also used in sitcom Birds of a Feather, by main characters Sharon and Tracey, often to the confusion of character, Dorian Green, who was unfamiliar with the terms.
Totoiana is still spoken in the village, and its inhabitants recall that Totoiana was once more widely spoken than standard Romanian in Totoi, even if it is now only used for fun "with a beer".
Banks was due to be a guest of honour at the 2014 World Science Fiction Convention, Loncon 3 but died the previous year.
Sindarin is also loosely applied to the related languages of the Elves of the same origin as the Grey Elves of Beleriand, who lived in Eriador and further East." Dialects The divergence of Sindarin (Old Sindarin) begun first into a Northern or Mithrimin group and a Southern group.
In addition, according to Gajewski, passive verbs are formed with faremi between this particle and the verb.
These became known as The Malayan Trilogy and were later published in one volume as The Long Day Wanes.
All descriptions implicitly terminate with ku, which can almost always be omitted with no danger of ambiguity.
The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction, July 1991 Ketamine, F&SF, March 1995 References External links Teonaht home page Sarah Higley at the University of Rochester Sally Caves at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
It was later found to be spurious by Campbell (2012), consisting of vocabulary from various languages of the region, such as Mapudungun, Gününa Küne, Kawésqar, Tehuelche, and some which appear to have been invented.
A far simpler approach aimed at average members of a species can cover numbers, >, <, =, +, -, and time.
In March 2016, he released his third EP titled Little Grids, again on Brainfeeder, and in September 2017 he released his album Neō Wax Bloom, also on Brainfeeder.
Letters Numerals Unicode The Sorang Sompeng script was added to the Unicode Standard in January 2012, with the release of version 6.1.
References Further reading External links Wordsworth Donisthorpe player profile and games at Chessgames.com
The sole documentary attestation of Bâleybelen is a dictionary, copies of which are to be found in the Bibliothèque nationale de France in Paris and in the Princeton University Library.
Podaná (Greek: ποδανά) is a Greek argot based on rearranging syllables, similar to Verlan and Vesre.
The story of the "twins who made their own language" made the national newspapers in 1978 and was included in an edition of the People's Almanac.
The writing is essayistic and uses the biblical story of Babel as a paradigm for connecting linguistic and social practices.
The IANA Language Subtag Registry (for IETF's language tags defined in BCP 47) was updated on 29 July 2009 to include all ISO 639-3 and ISO 639-5 identifiers in use at that time.
At the end of this time he was jailed for four months for preaching against socialism during the Kulturkampf.
In 1996, he published his first long novel in three volumes, Seikai no Monshou (Seikai no Monshō/Crest of the Stars).
It is inspired by Hans Freudenthal's Lincos and resembles the programming language Scheme in many ways.
In this period mezangelle shifted from a reliance on script kiddy/hacker influences to a refined interactive practice that explored aspects of fusing biological/physical and online living.
The content words do not fall into most traditional parts of speech; they may be used as nouns, verbs, modifiers, or interjections.
Computers are not highly developed, and there is no 'Silicon Valley' of North America, but information technology centres are instead found in Ireland.
Purpose Fictional languages are separated from artistic languages by both purpose and relative completion: a fictional language often has the least amount of grammar and vocabulary possible, and rarely extends beyond the absolutely necessary.
List Grammar The grammar of Unish was constructed on the basis of the principles of simplicity, logicality, and regularity.
In 1902 the Academy proposed a heavily revised version which was known as Neutral and later Idiom Neutral.
In these cases, the incorporation of air, or another gas, creates a lighter texture and a different mouthfeel.
In a 1972 article he wrote for Playboy about Arthur Bryant's restaurant in Kansas City, he wrote: "The main course at Bryant's, as far as I'm concerned, is something that is given away free – the burned edges of the brisket.
Vegetables Deglazing can also be used while cooking vegetables, especially ones that have left sugars at the bottom of a pan.
According to the late Haaretz food critic Daniel Rogov, world-renowned chefs have pleaded with one of the steakhouses, Sima, for the recipe, which includes a secret ingredient described as "Georgian pepper".
In the case of corn, the embers are doused with water and the corn is then inserted into the horno to be steam-cooked.
No spices other than salt are used in its minced meat; and the meatballs are served with a buttery tomato sauce.
Trimming the ends of the vegetable and the edges to make four straight sides makes it easier to produce a uniform cut.
The eight-episode first season was filmed in a docu-reality format, as it followed several competing BBQ teams around the country to various BBQ contests.
Bulgogi (불고기): thinly sliced or shredded beef marinated in soy sauce, sesame oil, garlic, sugar, green onions, and black pepper, cooked on a grill (sometimes at the table).
An example of this type of cooker was found in Wales by a Monmouth Archaeological Society excavation.
The cooked roast is sliced thinly and often served on a Kaiser roll, and may be topped with horseradish or tiger sauce (horseradish and mayonnaise) and sliced raw onion.
Hence the potatoes, after remaining for some hours in the boiling water, were nearly as hard as ever.
His neighbors see smoke coming out of the balcony and call the firemen, but when a fireman arrives, everything settles down and all the neighbors gather at Levon's house to enjoy the dish.
Variations of the recipe may include lemons instead of oranges, and ancho chile, achiote paste, or chile de árbol.
Simmering generally uses a higher temperature for cooking, and because it surrounds the food in water that maintains a more or less constant temperature, simmering cooks food very evenly.
The temperature is controlled by limiting the air intake at the bottom of the drum, and allowing a similar amount of exhaust out of vents in the lid.
If the meat is cold smoked, it should be dried quickly to limit bacterial growth during the critical period where the meat is not yet dry.
Different ratios of wine and carbonated water are named with various slang terms, depending on the region.
Also, camp cooks often replicate toast using a frying pan: a bread slice (or more, or a combination of whole and cut portions) is placed in a well-greased pan, pressed down with a spatula, flipped, and pressed down again.
Beer can chicken (also known as chicken on a throne, beer butt chicken, coq au can, dancing chicken) is a barbecued chicken dish and method of indirect grilling using a partially-filled can of beer that is placed in the chicken's cavity prior to cooking.
Leaving a lid ajar can create some similar effects and requires less effort, although it can be difficult to establish how open it should be to release a desired amount of steam, and the steam is released unevenly.
Another variation suggested by the United States Department of Agriculture during the 1920s was to break the eggs into a bed of cooked rice and cover them in cheese sauce.
All this is covered with wet sacks, and then with dirt and grass chunks, creating the effect of a giant pressure cooker in which the food cooks for approximately one hour.
Romanian pickles (murături) are made out of beetroot, cucumbers, green tomatoes (gogonele), carrots, cabbage, garlic, sauerkraut, bell peppers, melons, mushrooms, turnips, celery and cauliflower.
Season 5: Judges Myron Mixon Tuffy Stone (3rd Judge changes in each episode) Contestants Season 5: Episode Results Season 6 All Season 6 episodes were filmed in a single location in Florida.
In 2018, Joe and Brian Traeger were hired by Danson's, which owned several grill companies, including Louisiana Grills and Pit Boss Grills.
Yakiniku is a type of food where meat and vegetables are grilled directly over small charcoal or gas grills at high temperatures.
Etymology The word purée in English is a loanword borrowed from the French purée, descendant from the Old French puree, meaning "made pure".
Salt from the Dead Sea was in use by Jewish inhabitants around 1,600 BC, and by 1,200 BC, the Phoenicians were trading salted fish in the Eastern Mediterranean region.
External links Media related to Brisket of beef at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of brisket at Wiktionary
Naxon was inspired by a story related by his mother, how in her native Lithuanian town his grandmother made a traditional Jewish stew called cholent, which took several hours to cook in an oven.
History Mu kratha means 'pan pork' in Thai (mu is 'pig' or 'pork' and kratha is 'pan' or 'skillet').
Because vegetables do not produce as much fat, they do not need to be removed from the pan to pour off excess grease.
Shocking is a cooking process wherein the food substance, usually a vegetable or fruit, is plunged into iced water or placed under cold running water to halt the cooking process.
See also Clam bake (New England) Earth oven Hāngī (New Zealand) Kalua (Hawaii) Pachamanca (Perú) References == External links ==
Commonly known styles of sandwiches are Korean Bulgogi and Cheesesteak Sandwich, which both feature thinly sliced Bulgogi marinated grilled beef typically joined by steamed vegetables and cheese Hoagie roll.
See also Bubble tea Edible water bottle Liquid marbles Molecular gastronomy References Young, Chris (2013).
Nuts are buried in the hot sand and occasionally turned with a spatula, then the sand and nuts are separated through a wire-mesh screen.
Dehydration has been used widely for this purpose since ancient times; the earliest known practice is 12,000 B.C.
It is also used to manipulate the taste of pizza crusts through its effect on the yeast content of the dough.
Applications Adobo was employed initially as a method of food preservation, but in time—with the advent of refrigeration methods—it came to be used primarily as a method of flavoring foods before cooking.
The French culinary term for these deposits is sucs (pronounced [syk] ), from the Latin word succus (sap).
Pickled fruits like blueberries and early green strawberries are paired with meat dishes in restaurants.
engastration A cooking method by which the cook stuffs the remains of one animal into another animal.
For the meat to 'pull' properly, it must reach an internal temperature of 195 to 205 °F (91 to 96 °C); the smoker temperature can be around 275 °F (135 °C).
Dicing usually applies to vegetables prepared in this way but it can also apply to the preparation of meat or fish and fruit.
Competitions Davis founded the Diddy-Wa-Diddy National Barbecue Sauce Contest in his backyard in 1984.
Adding a protein such as fish to the dish has also been suggested by chefs to round it out sufficiently to make it suitable as a dinner-time option.
Since the second reheat finishes the cooking process, foods are not overcooked as leftovers often are.
Potatoes are the most commonly "riced" foods, as in the dish riced potatoes, essentially a smoother version of mashed potatoes.
The method essentially combines pressure cooking with deep frying to pressure fry chicken that has been marinated and breaded.
While churrasqueira restaurants offer the typical fare of barbecued frango (chicken), beef or pork, they may also offer rotisserie chicken and a variety of other culinary dishes.
The nomadic populations, in addition to their main herd often composed of several thousand sheep, raise a small number of male lambs specifically for méchoui, feeding them with cheih, a species of wild mugwort which gives the lamb a distinctive character.
With either spelling, the term only appears in French sources towards the last part of the nineteenth century.
Examples Dairy products produced by souring include: Clabber, Cheese, Crème fraîche, Cultured buttermilk, Curd, Filmjölk, Kefir, Paneer, Smetana, Soured milk, Sour cream, and Yogurt.
The pan is heated until the salt crackles and steaks cooked with this method usually involves a crispy crust made of the salt.
In modern times the term and activity is often associated with the Eastern Seaboard, the "barbecue belt", colonial California in the United States and Mexico.
When the final product is desired, a parbaked loaf is completed by baking at a normal temperature, which produces a normal loaf of bread.
An informal test for a temperature close to this range involves adding a tiny amount of flour into the oil and watching to see if it sizzles without immediately burning.
To start the grill, the user removes the outer packaging and lights the corner of the starter sheet.
A key feature of this dish is the use of large chunks of meat combined with a distinctive marinade, which sets it apart from other Caucasian barbecue.
For less-developed countries, curing remains a key process in the production, transport and availability of meat.
Washing meat or cleaning meat is a technique of preparation, primarily used to treat raw meat or poultry prior to cooking in order to sanitize it.
A savory glaze such as demi-glace can be made from reduced stock or meat glaze that is poured onto meat or vegetables.
Purées generally must be cooked, either before or after grinding, in order to improve flavour and texture, remove toxic substances, and/or reduce their water content.
Julienne, allumette, or French cut is a culinary knife cut in which the food item is cut into long thin strips, similar to matchsticks.
In addition to horse mackerel, sashimi can be made from tuna, bonito, and alfonsino, depending on the location and restaurant.
References Further reading Shott, Chris (October 5, 2015), "Why Is Everybody Freaking Out About Coal-Fired Pizza?
However, when using a plastic bag, little to no evaporation occurs while the meat is cooking, which results in plentiful bag juices.
In the most basic, food is pushed or pressured through a metal or plastic plate with many small holes, producing a smoother result than mashing, but coarser than pureeing or passing through a sieve or tamis.
Unlike the Maillard reaction, caramelization is pyrolytic, as opposed to being a reaction with amino acids.
This is because lids more easily absorb energy than parchment paper, producing condensation on the lid and reducing the amount of steam that is cooking the food.
These meatballs, also known as Delikli (drilled) meatballs and Tire Kebab in the public are served by putting fresh parsley on them.
These brands are supported by a range of barbeque fuels, sauces, rubs, and other cooking accessories, and a range of outdoor furniture products.
In 2025 Meghan Markle used the technique to make a dish she called skillet spaghetti on an episode of her show With Love, Meghan; the technique again went viral.
Origin One of the earliest documentations of chicken inasal was by Felix Laureano in his photo book, Recuerdos de Filipinas, which describes the daily lives and culture of Iloilo and Panay.
Flambé dishes Examples of popular flambé dishes include: Bananas Foster Bombe Alaska Cherries jubilee Christmas pudding Crêpes Suzette Feuerzangenbowle Flaming beverages Gundel Palacsinta Kaiserschmarrn Steak Diane See also Flaming drink List of cooking techniques References == External links ==
Modern masonry ovens are closely associated with artisan bread and pizza, but in the past they were used for any cooking task involving baking.
Food writer Meathead Goldwyn says that the process may actually make the chicken drier compared to other types of roasting, with the beer never producing any steam: "You could grill chicken as long as you want, but even if you took it off at 160°F or 165°F, it doesn't matter.
Panko is produced worldwide, particularly in Asian countries, including Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Thailand, China, and Vietnam.
The moisture may be from the food itself or from an added moisture source, such as water, wine, or stock.
Curing can be traced back to antiquity, and was the primary method of preserving meat and fish until the late 19th century.
The fish were substitutions or counterparts to the roasts served on meat days, corresponding to their position in the meal but not their cooking method.
The show follows Michael Symon as he explores the art of barbecuing around the United States by traveling to BBQ competitions.
In March 2021, BBQGuys announced that Eli Manning and his father Archie Manning would be starring in national advertising campaign to promote the brand.
History Recently, pljeskavica has gained popularity elsewhere in Europe and is served in a few speciality fast food restaurants in Germany, Sweden, and Austria.
African chicken consists of a grilled or roasted chicken coated with spicy piri piri sauce, which sometimes includes Asian ingredients.
However, given that ovens often weigh thousands of pounds, few natural materials provide both insulation and adequate structural support.
The water bowl serves to maintain optimal smoking temperatures and also adds humidity to the smoke chamber.
Most steamers are designed to be stacked on top of each other so that the steam can cook multiple servings simultaneously, as well as fit on the table (often on a Lazy Susan) while being served.
When the mutton is dressed, they put the skin again upon it and sew it up well, and then they put it on the coals and cover it: the mutton is all night adoing, and it is not over and above good when it is done.
The amylolytic process is also useful in the breaking down of molecules, it can be closely associated with the process of hydrolysis.
In its native usage, fond refers to the sauce created by dissolving the flavorful solid bits of food (sucs) stuck to a pan or pot after cooking.
Modern use includes gas heating, the traditional fire-heated method, an iron heated by electricity (electric cattle branding iron) or an iron super cooled by dry ice (freeze branding iron).
When maintaining a starter's existing weight, it is advised to discard 60% (or more) of the starter, replacing that discarded dough with new dough.
'thin slice'), is an extremely thin, diagonally cut slice that is mostly used to cut firm fish, such as bream, whiting, and flounder.
The brine surrounding the cells has a higher concentration of salt than the fluid within the cells, but the cell fluid has a higher concentration of other solutes.
Scoring: If desired, proofed dough is scored with a lame or razor to slash the top of the dough to direct oven-spring expansion.
Slices of smoked bologna are often grilled before consumption, and then dressed in a tomato and mustard-based barbecue sauce.
Campfires can be used for cooking food by several techniques, the food maybe suspended in the flames or in direct contact with the fuel.
The sensor is placed into the oil and the valve adjusts the flame to achieve a constant temperature.
It is a popular seasonal food eaten during spring and summer and belongs to traditional Croatian dishes.
The term supreme (also spelled suprême) used in cooking and culinary arts refers to the best part of the food.
Simulation It is possible to get some of the benefits of a masonry oven without constructing a full oven.
Later that year, Inside Retail included Barbeques Galore on its list of the 20 coolest retailers for 2020.
While the dough is very similar, the baked char siu bao is more similar to a baked bun with the same char siu filling.
Useful in all smoking applications and with any kind of animal protein, it is best used with fish where the flesh of a fish such as salmon forms a pellicle that will attract more smoke to adhere to it than would be the case if it had not been used.
Where fire prevention and fire protection have failed to prevent damage, fire insurance can mitigate the financial impact.
Season 4: Judges Myron Mixon Tuffy Stone (Aaron Franklin) Contestants Season 4: Episode Results Season 5 This season the BBQ competition returns to the previous elimination format.
The advantage of the method is that the meat does not come into contact with the cooking liquid; in Poularde de Bresse en vessie, the juices from the chicken all stay in the chicken, and turn into a flavorful jelly if the dish is served cold.
Television Pryles was one of the hosts and judges of the television show Aussie Barbecue Heroes which is an Australian reality competition television series on the Seven Network.
See also Earth oven Hāngī References External links Glossary of Finnish Dishes Archived 2013-09-21 at the Wayback Machine
The report, citing limited data in a statistical meta-analysis, indicates a potential twofold increased risk of esophageal cancer associated with Asian pickled vegetable consumption.
For example, Leonard Heuberger, who in 1922 founded a barbecue restaurant in Memphis named Leonard's, has been reputed there as being the inventor of the "classic Memphis pork barbecue sandwich".
Metal, including pottery glazes which can contain lead, reacts with the acid in the marinade and should be avoided.
Humans lack an instinctual fascination with fire, yet in modern societies, adults can become drawn to it out of curiosity.
Maceration is an important step in the making of wine, and is also used in the production of other flavored alcoholic beverages, such as cordials, liqueurs, and Geister.
Dairy production In dairy production, creaming is the process of separating un-homogenized milk into cream and skimmed milk.
Steak and roasted meat were translated as yakiniku (焼肉) and iriniku (焙肉), respectively, as proposed western-style menus in Seiyō Ryōri Shinan although this usage of the former word was eventually replaced by the loanword sutēki.
The word souchong would later be integrated into the tea leaf grading system to refer to the fourth and fifth leaves which are the larger, broader leaves.
The varieties of shellfish vary but almejas (clams), cholgas (ribbed mussels) and picorocos (giant barnacles) are essential.
Dredging is a cooking technique used to coat wet or moist foods with a dry ingredient prior to cooking.
It is a promotional tie in to the Gyu-Kaku restaurant chain, where the player must serve customers barbecue products while maintaining the customers' patience.
It required burning hundreds of pounds of wood in the pit over the preceding night, then lowering cloth-wrapped, marinated meat into the resulting pit of coals and covering everything with earth.
This hulling is performed by hand, in traditional or very small-scale preparation, or mechanically, in larger scale or industrial production.
California Pizza Kitchen, a restaurant chain founded in California, is the original creator of barbecue chicken pizza.
United States Churrascaria cuisine combined with rodízio-style service has become more popular in the US, expanding to a number of cities.
Buccan or Boucan is the native South American and Caribbean name for a wooden framework or hurdle on which meat was slow-roasted or smoked over a fire.
Gui most commonly has meat or fish as the primary ingredient, but may, in some cases also have grilled vegetables or other vegetarian ingredients.
In spinach leaves, the extrachloroplastic region contains the highest level of amylase degradation of starch.
In addition to slow cooked barbecue, and smoked meats, Pryles is considered an expert in live fire cooking.
Maceration of byproducts from food processing plants and other organic byproducts such as cooking oil, stubble, wood chips or manure can involve the use of a chopper pump to create a slurry which can be used to create compost or co-digestion feedstock in biogas plants (or both).
Unlike traditional khorovats, which is cooked over an open fire, khazani khorovats is prepared in a pot (kazan).
Although many recipes require eggs to be at room temperature, it is easiest to separate eggs that are cold.
A bull roast is a meal where beef, typically not an entire bull, is roasted over an open pit barbecue and then sliced up and served.
With many adaptations of the recipe that now spans the globe, the original recipe was made using a mixture of cream, brandy, and dark and milk chocolates.
See also List of barbecue dishes List of chicken dishes List of street foods Mu ping References Tan, Terry.
At the place where we slept water necessarily boiled, from the diminished pressure of the atmosphere, at a lower temperature than it does in a less lofty country; the case being the converse of that of a Papin's digester.
Lawry's and Adolph's are food, seasoning, and beverage brands owned by McCormick & Company, and formerly owned by Unilever and Lawry's.
In addition, it was featured prominently in the story line of John Waters's 1998 film Pecker, which was set in Baltimore.
In the late 19th century, it was eaten in the neighboring state of Georgia but its popularity is mostly confined to South Carolina in the 21st century.
In Chilean cuisine, restaurants grill beef à la plancha and have a long history of cooking seafood on flattop grills.
Philippine cuisine Siopao (simplified Chinese: 烧包; traditional Chinese: 燒包; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: sio-pau; Tagalog pronunciation: [ˈʃoː.paʊ̯]), literally meaning "hot bun", is the Philippine indigenized version of baozi.
In cooking, pressure frying is a variation on pressure cooking where meat and cooking oil are brought to high temperatures while pressure is held high enough to cook the food more quickly.
Health concerns Concerns have been raised about particulates, sulfur dioxide and CO2 emissions from coal-fired pizza ovens.
Fish As opposed to dry salting, fish brining or wet-salting is performed by immersion of fish into brine, or just sprinkling it with salt without draining the moisture.
The Rival Company of Kansas City, Missouri, bought Naxon in 1970, acquiring Naxon's 1940 patent for the bean simmer cooker.
In many townships, licensed “buy‑and‑braai” venues emerged, combining butchery outlets with braai stations, transforming a simple meal into a vibrant weekend party atmosphere with music, dancing and sometimes additional services such as car washes.
Ida Joscelyne's book, The Marvellous Little Housekeepers (1880), mentions both rum and kirsch; another recipe appears in A.G.
See also Israel portal Food portal Israeli cuisine Mixed grill List of meat dishes Jewish cuisine Culture of Israel Cuisine of Jerusalem Israeli inventions and discoveries == References ==
Federal Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff was criticized by his own party for taking the 2009 barbecue season off.
Weber's Real Grilling, Jamie Purviance, Mike Kempster, and Tim Turner, ISBN 978-0-376-02046-8, 2005.
Maceration may also refer to the preparing of fresh fruits (such as strawberries or raspberries by sprinkling them with sugar (and sometimes a small amount of salt) in order to promote the release of the fruit's juices, making the food more flavorful and easier to chew.
It has been described as the city's signature cuisine by some outlets, noting its widespread adoption as a form of fast food.
"Thin, spicy, and vinegar based," it penetrates the meat and cuts the fats in the mouth, with a noticeably tarter flavor than most other barbecue sauces.
However, the breadcrumbs were eventually eaten by birds, subsequently leading them to become lost in the woods.
In that case, the wood should be charred at high temperature to reduce the residual amounts of hydrogen and oxygen that lead to side reactions.
A common cooking technique in villages is to wrap fish or other meat in a banana leaf, tie it off, and then place the banana leaf in the heated sand one side at a time.
The fire in a hearth was perceived as symbolic of the Heavenly Fire, and thus is considered a sacred component by fire-worshipping cultures.
As a result of precise temperature control of the bath and the fact that the bath temperature is the same as the target cooking temperature, very precise control of cooking can be achieved.
Another simple method is to rub hot cornmeal or sawdust over the flesh-side of the animal pelt, followed by scraping.
Stir-fried dishes See also List of cooking techniques Bokkeum Pan frying Notes References Further reading External links How to Stir-fry: Illustrated Step-by-step Archived 22 December 2016 at the Wayback Machine Stir-fry Recipes Archived 24 December 2006 at the Wayback Machine
In 2009, Israeli chefs created a giant portion that weighed in at 440 pounds (200 kilos), winning a Guinness world record for the largest Jerusalem mixed grill.
The oldest evidence (via heated fish teeth from a deep cave) of controlled use of fire to cook food by archaic humans was dated to ~780,000 years ago.
The dish is traditionally attributed to the Edo period master of the Japanese tea ceremony and gourmet Kitamura Yūan (北村祐庵).
It may be simply a heater loop that is inserted into a pile of charcoal, or may include a pot for holding the charcoal.
When the desired temperature is reached within the heating instrument, the food is placed inside and baked for a certain amount of time.
The legend surrounding its origination was to prevent any aroma from escaping while it was being cooked.
Impurities in the sugar, such as the molasses remaining in brown sugar, greatly speed the reactions.
He suggested to Ford that a charcoal manufacturing facility be established next to the assembly line to process and sell charcoal under the Ford name at Ford dealerships.
Simmering is a food preparation technique by which foods are cooked in hot liquids kept just below the boiling point of water (lower than 100 °C or 212 °F) and above poaching temperature (higher than 71–80 °C or 160–176 °F).
This is aimed at the effect of preserving namerō, which is easily spoiled in the summer and cannot be stored in advance, and stimulating appetite decreased in the summer with acid.
Since the yolks of older eggs are more watery, which makes separation difficult, it is best to begin with the freshest eggs available.
Kotlovina is a Croatian fried and stewed meat dish from Zagreb and the surrounding northwest Croatia.
The winning team was then put in the awkward position to choose one contestant from the losing team to eliminate and they had to name that person within 30 seconds.
Hot sand frying Hot sand frying is a common cooking technique for street-side food vendors in China and India to cook chestnuts and peanuts.
Before cooking, it is common to soak the meat in brine; this process provides the extra moisture needed for a long, slow cooking process.
Fat can be skimmed off the liquid with a small ladle, spoon, or cup as the liquid simmers and then discarded.
Advantages of dredging There are several reasons for dredging food before sautéing or frying: The flour and other dry ingredients seal in moisture to prevent the food from becoming tough.
Twitter also added a sausage-in-bread emoji to the '#ausvotes' hashtag on the day of the 2016 election; it was the most widely used emoji in relation to the election under that hashtag.
In the past, recipes called for coddling fruit, but in recent times the term is usually only applied to coddled eggs.
According to Paula Wolfert, "all Mediterranean food used to be cooked in clay." In the Han dynasty, pots unglazed on the exterior known as fus (now called sandy pots) were used for wet clay cooking.
Raw meat is coated in corn starch (and often egg white) and then par-cooked by briefly frying or blanching to set the coating.
BBQ Champ is a British reality television series that first aired on 31 July 2015 and ended on 28 August 2015 on ITV.
See also Fermented milk products Food preservation Marination References External links Buttermilk substitution Free lactic acid in sour milk A comparison of sourdough microflora Cultured milk products
Unlike other dry heat methods, dry roasting is used with foods such as nuts and seeds, in addition to some eaten insects such as house crickets.
Parcooking is typically used in the processed food industry, and most frozen and ultra-processed foods are prepared this way.
The chicken may be butterflied with the backbone removed before grilling, or it may be cooked on a rotisserie spit.
Roasted corn at the Minnesota State Fair has been described as "one of the fair’s most popular foods for more than 28 years".
South America Asado is a technique for cooking cuts of meat, usually beef, alongside various other meats, which are cooked on a grill (parrilla) or open fire.
Because this is a piece of old dough, it has the typical ingredient of salt to distinguish it from other pre-ferments.
Saltpeter (potassium nitrate) is mentioned as being gathered in China and India prior to the Christian era for use in meat curing...
Lapsang souchong lacks the bitterness that can come with other black teas, so it does not need to be sweetened and can be brewed strongly.
This can be achieved by igniting only some burners on a gas barbecue or by piling coals to one side of a charcoal pit.
While he initially wished to name the dish "Peking barbecue" after his hometown, due to political sensitivity associated with the city which had been recently designated as the capital of the People's Republic of China, the name "Mongolian barbecue" was chosen instead.
The word is from the Old French parbouillir, 'to boil thoroughly' but by mistaken association with "part", it has acquired this definition.
Terminology Some Indo-Aryan and Dravidian languages use a form inherited from the Sanskrit root vyághāra- "sprinkling over", as in baghār (बघार) in Hindi.
In Different Cultures The prevalence, process and purpose of washing meat may vary by culture, washing meat removes aromas that people of certain ethnicities are sometimes said to be more sensitive to.
the Assembly of First Nations gathering in New Brunswick and then the Calgary Stampede." The 2012 barbecue circuit began in late June with events related to St.
Africa Skottle is a popular type of griddle in South Africa, originally made from used farm harrowing discs.
Clarifying wine In wine tasting, a wine is considered "clear" when there are no visible particles suspended in the liquid and, especially in the case of white wines, when there is some degree of transparency.
ISBN 0 86946 280 6 http://hamiltonewell.com.au/pdfs/HamiltonDescendants.pdf External links Hamilton's Ewell Vineyards website 34°55′35″S 138°35′52″E
In 1968 Torgiano received the DOC appellation for its Rosso and Bianco wines, the first of these prestigious appellations to be awarded to Umbria's wine production; in 1990 the DOCG was granted to Rosso Riserva (with retroactive recognition to the 1983 vintage).
In wine, all 21 amino acids can be found in trace amounts with arginine, proline and glutamine being the most abundant.
Sale of the De Loach Vineyards brand In November 2003 De Loach sold the De Loach Vineyards brand and the original winery site to Boisset Family Estates for $17.5 million just prior to emerging from an 8-month Chapter 11 (protection from creditors) bankruptcy proceeding pending reorganization.
The Australian meaning of this term is malo lactic fermentation MLF, as distinct from primary fermentation, the conversion of sugar to alcohol.
As with any other instruments, MIR and FT-IR instruments can be calibrated against pure sucrose solutions and thus report in °Bx, but there are other possibilities with these technologies, as they have the potential to distinguish between sugars and interfering substances.
She also appeared on TV shows out of New York City, and in summer stock theatre in New York and Illinois.
Light lees protocol In a process in which yeast is added to wine that has completed primary fermentation, this secondary yeast addition typically remains in the wine from 2–8 weeks, depending on the winemaker's goals.
Effervescence in wine was seen as a fault at the time and Perignon devoted much effort trying to eliminate it from the wines of Champagne.
Saint Columba miracle Sixth-century Irish missionary Saint Columba of Iona supposedly performed an identical miracle when he served as a deacon in Ireland under Finnian of Movilla, replenishing the supply of sacramental wine for a mass.
Cincinnati Reds (1977–1982) Seaver went 14–3 with the Reds and won 21 games in 1977, including an emotional 5–1 victory over the Mets in his return to Shea Stadium.
At Calvet he worked under the chemical engineer Jean Ribéreau-Gayon, and they developed methods of analysing the wines that were to be purchased.
He emigrated with his wife and their seven children aboard Katherine Stewart Forbes, arriving in Adelaide on 17 October 1837, and set about establishing a farm.
In Burgundy for instance, négociants such as Bouchard Père et Fils and Faiveley are among the largest owners of vineyards.
His grapevines were also being shipped all over the country but especially to Long Island and Virginia.
De Loach Vineyards was the first farming operation in Sonoma County to be certified by Fish Friendly Farming, in 2000.
Négociant Négociant is the French term for a wine merchant who assembles the produce of smaller growers and winemakers and sells the result under its own name.
The grapes used in the making of base wine are picked when they are green, so that the grape skins do not break during handling and release as little phenols as possible.
V Vacuum distillation A means of removing water from grape must at a lower temperature than standard distillation/boiling which could also burn off the delicate flavors and aromas of wine.
The name is derived from John 2:1–12, the Wedding at Cana in Galilee, where Jesus performed the miracle of turning water into wine.
One daughter – Hélène Godillot – took control of the original restaurant Le Relais de Venise – L'Entrecôte at Porte Maillot, and her branch of the family subsequently opened additional locations under that name in Barcelona (in 2003) and London (in 2005).
Lees are deposits of dead yeast or residual yeast and other particles that precipitate, or are carried by the action of "fining", to the bottom of a vat of wine after fermentation and aging.
He died in Busselton on 9 February 1994, aged 71, after an eighteen-month bout of motor neurone disease.
Local authorities The local administration in Qana is headed by a Municipal Council composed of 15 members and headed by Dr.
Vicomte Fernand Adhémar Ferdinand Antoine de Chaunac de Lanzac (5 September 1896 – 12 November 1972) was a French-born Canadian wine pioneer who helped lay the groundwork for a successful wine industry in Ontario and other eastern North American wine regions.
It can be used in various non-alcoholic as well as alcoholic drinks like wine, cider, beer-mix beverages or hard seltzers.
Between 2008 and 2011, he was the director of the Medical Oncological Unit and Oncological Innovative Therapies within the scope of the National Institute for Tumors in Naples.
Racking, often referred to as Soutirage or Soutirage traditionnel (meaning racking in French), also filtering or fining, is the process of moving wine or beer from one container to another using gravity rather than a pump, which can be disruptive to the beverage.
While the Chilean wine industry has been dominated by large global producers, Kingston Family Vineyards is one of a handful of Chilean vineyards leveraging California-style winemaking to spotlight Chilean terroir.
As these bacteria produce acid, they are usually acid-tolerant, growing well below pH 5.0, although the pH optimum for growth is 5.4-6.3.
Tolley, and rented a section of Thomas Hardy and Sons' premises at 85 Currie Street, which they did not fully relinquish until 1901.
Joseph Gilbert (1800 – 23 December 1881) was a pastoralist and winemaker in South Australia from 1839 until his death.
Production at Stepney ceased around 1946, and the cellars devoted to maturation of brandy and fortified wines.
In wine, it is often used to replace potassium sorbate, as it inactivates wine spoilage yeasts such as Brettanomyces.
Most Christian churches, including the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, have adopted the New Julian calendar since 1968.
Legacy Jordan was a respected and influential figure in the Australian wine industry, particularly on the production of sparkling wine.
This process of "pumping over" or "punching down" the cap is done often throughout the fermentation process, depending on the extent of maceration the winemaker desires.
The interruption method is often favoured by producers in cooler regions where the fermentation is slower and easier to interrupt at a specific point and where they have the resources to hand bottle at a specific time and to hand disgorge.
Biography Sommer was born in San Francisco to Hermann and Elizabeth Sommer, a chemist and microbiologist, respectively.
Some scholars believe, according to archaeological evidence, that the identification of Kafr Kanna was the result of the decline of Khirbet Qana beginning in the Mamluk period.
Return to Castiglione Falletto and the teaching In the autumn of 1949 Arnaldo Rivera began his activity as a primary school teacher in Castiglione Falletto.
Rivera he succeeded in overcoming the widespread distrust of this form of cooperative associations since in the first half of the twentieth century some winegrower consortia had also failed due to a lack of dynamic market.
Above the figure of Jesus, on an elevated walkway, a man watches the banquet, and a serving maid waits for the carver to carve an animal to portions.
The following year, she reprised her role as Alice Hardy in the sequel Friday the 13th Part 2, in which the character meets her demise during the film's opening sequence.
A series of disagreements, including Bize-Leroy's displeasure at de Villaine's involvement in the Judgment of Paris wine tasting and disputes over Bize-Leroy's handling of the distribution of the Domaine's wines, led to her being ousted in 1992.
This ascendancy was replicated by Antohi under another Phanariote, Scarlat Callimachi, who made him Spatharios and legislator, while also encouraging his literary efforts.
Free-run versus pressed juice For as long as presses have been used, winemakers have been aware of the different color, body and aroma characteristics of wine made from the "free-run" juice compared to pressed juice.
In the same month De Loach sold the 250,000 case capacity crush facility at 2120 Olivet Road to Derek Benham of Sonoma Wine Company, now Purple Wine + Spirits, for $6.2 million.
Paolo was at the center of the development of multicenter evaluations of tocilizumab against COVID-19 pneumonia during the whole year, being essential to it.
He also stated, "Using only the very best grapes is a new phenomenon," considering this "the crowning achievement of [his] work." Peynaud was the Decanter Man of the Year in 1990.
Besides food industry, some acetic acid bacteria are used as biocatalysts for the industrial production of compounds.
They improved production by promoting the exclusion of oxygen in winemaking, and the use of refrigeration and stainless steel.
In 1966 he and a team of Perth-based practitioners and researchers founded the Busselton Health Study, a long-term survey of the health of Busselton's population, whose data has been used in over 400 research publications.
Her husband had opened a general store at Matamata in the North Island, and Kue Sum ran the store together with him.
The wine may also be 'fined' (collage) using egg white or other materials to settle out particles in suspension which are then removed through further racking." Egg white is often applied to each barrel during the process.
If temperatures stay high and the yeast stops reproducing then the fermentation is at grave risk of getting stuck.
Ukkonika currently employs 20 people in addition to her children; her firstborn studied food technology and her master's degree was in wine making and is the company consultant of this family business.
Benefits Exposure to oxygen during production may improve wine, but the exposure must be limited: too much oxygen can lead to oxidation while too little can lead to reduction, either one leading to its associated wine faults.
He left the family company to create the Kir-Yianni wine company, based on two estates in abandoned village of Giannakochori and in Amyntaio, in 1998.
Family History Nello Olivo is the husband of actress Danica d'Hondt, father of actress America Olivo, and father-in-law to actors Christian Campbell and Jason Brooks.
He crossed varieties of vinifera with other subspecies, which have since become known as "Blattners".
Lees can also be distilled to produce Hefebrand, or "lees spirit", an alcoholic beverage containing a minimum of 38% alcohol by volume.
Must weight is a measure of the amount of sugar in grape juice (must) and, hence, indicates the amount of alcohol that could be produced if it is all fermented to alcohol, rather than left as residual sugar.
In 1987 he introduced a private members bill on the same issue and it was passed with support of all three parties.
He helped make the winery's first cabernet sauvignon in 1974 and regularly travelled to Bordeaux to buy more examples of the variety.
It is produced by concentrating the teinturier grape Rubired, a cross between Alicante Ganzin and Tinta Cão, has 68% sugar and sells for approximately $135 a gallon.
In their business contract for the commission of The Wedding Feast at Cana, the Benedictine monks stipulated that Veronese be paid 324 ducats; be paid the costs of his personal and domestic maintenance; be provided a barrel of wine; and be fed in the refectory.
During the period of the Crusades, Christian pilgrims visited Khirbet Qana, though it is unclear if they ever lived there.
Yamanashi has worked to increase the land under cultivation and set a target for the production of 1,000 tons of Koshu in 2025.
Hotel Anselme and his wife Corinne, own and operate Hôtel Les Avisés, a 10-room inn adjacent to the family winery.
On winemaking, he has said, "I would not say that my style is particularly evident in the winemaking, although I'm a firm believer in no filtration or fining, natural yeast, open-top fermenting and other noninvasive techniques.
Biography Before his career Paolo Antonio Ascierto was born on 8 November 1964 in the town of Solopaca in Campania, Italy.
Achieving international acclaim, including bronze and silver medal in the Paris International Exhibition in 1867 He named some of his wines in the language of the Wonnarua people, such as Bukkulla.
Early life and education Wiemer was born in Bernkastel-Wittlich, Germany and raised in Bernkastel-Kues.
It took her six years of research and planning to prepare the right procedure and the correct concoction.
It simply means that a significant amount of yeast and bacteria has been removed to a harmless level for the wine stability.
In 1996 and 1998, his winery produced 17,000 cases, which he considered classified it as a medium-sized winery.
After the Koncert mladosti festival was banned, he was summoned for questioning as a co-organizer and punished by being prohibited from officially acting as a cultural coordinator of the SZM local organization.
Seaver pitched two and a half seasons in Chicago and recorded his last shutout on July 19, 1985, against the visiting Indians.
The ruined village of Khirbet Qana (Kanet el-Jelil), about six miles (9.7 km) further north, is an option presented as certain by William F.
Food Microbiol.Volume 163, issue 2-3, 204-213 External links International conference on acetic acid bacteria
Co-fermentation is also performed in situations where field blend varietals are indistinguishable from each other, thus necessitating co-fermentation.
References External links Kitchen Dictionary: Campden Tablet Archived 27 November 2002 at the Wayback Machine
Early life He was born in Jalisco, Mexico in 1953 and moved with his family to Rutherford in the Napa Valley in 1957.
In 1974 he graduated from electrical maturita and from 1976 to 1981 he studied mechanical engineering technology at the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, SVŠT in Bratislava.
Considered an "international leading man", he is regarded as one of the most versatile actors of his generation.
In 1997, he released an opera solo album 1997 entitled Concerto Classico, which went double platinum in a short time.
Benjamin Cane is an Australian winemaker who currently owns Duke's Vineyard in the Great Southern region of Western Australia.
Appointed by Pope Pius VII, the Neoclassical sculptor Antonio Canova negotiated the Treaty of Tolentino (1797) for the French repatriation of Italian works of art that Napoleon had plundered from the Papal States.
This matter may include dead yeast cells (lees), bacteria, tartrates, proteins, pectins, various tannins and other phenolic compounds, as well as pieces of grape skin, pulp, stems and gums.
200) Codex Vaticanus (325–350) Codex Sinaiticus (330–360) Codex Alexandrinus (400–440) Old Testament references John 2:17: Psalm 69:9.
"Southcorp Announces Peter Gago's Appointment as Penfolds Chief Winemaker, Assuming the Mantle from John Duval" (Press release).
He bought Hamilton Island, Queensland in 2003 for $200 million, he also owned retirement homes and a villa in Sardinia, Italy.
In 1980, Hill-Smith was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) for services to the wine industry and horse racing.
Another daughter Margaret Eleanor "Peg" Burden (12 April 1917 – 22 August 2007) married Donald Alexander "Don" Dowie (1917–2016), brother of John Dowie.
Between 1989 and 2001, he was a teacher of mechanical engineering subjects at the Secondary Vocational School (Slovak: Stredné odborné učilište).
With his friends Paul Armbruster (alias "Alaric"), du Fleix, Pierre Beausoleil (allias Pierrot) and his wife Simone, Dr.
F Fall bright The point when a wine becomes limpid, or clear, after all the cloudy sediments falls to the bottom of container.
In 1996, the family launched Kingston Family Vineyards with Kingston serving as CEO and lead for sales and marketing, with her brother Tim advising as a founding partner.
In the 2007 New Year Honours, he was appointed a Distinguished Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit (DCNZM).
Bart Ehrman argues that the idea that the image of Jesus was influenced by ancient pagan mythology is usually dismissed by scholars as a fringe theory.
She launched the Bollinger RD vintage in 1961 and the vintage Vieilles Vignes Françaises in 1969, putting the brand on the international stage.
When Philippe died in 1988, Philippine inherited three estates in Bordeaux: Château Mouton Rothschild (bought by her great-great-grandfather Nathaniel de Rothschild in 1853), Château d'Armailhac, and Château Clerc Milon.
He played eight first-class matches for Western Australia and one for a representative Australian XI.
A protective cap is placed over the lower end of the cane that allows liquid to be drawn into the cane from above rather than below while keeping most large solids out.
In 1968 30 acres (12 ha) was compulsorily acquired for creation of Glengowrie High School, which closed and was demolished in 1991 to make way for a retirement estate.
Clendenen ultimately acquired full ownership of the winery in 1989 and diversified with other ventures such as Clendenen Family Vineyards.
She expanded the estate’s offerings to include cultural tourism, organizing events such as baroque music concerts and literary festivals.
Clendenen went to school in Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio, until grade nine, when the family relocated to La Habra, CA.
The site also comprised approximately five acres of 1940s-era mixed-grape vineyards (mostly Palomino and Golden Chasselas), an orchard of approximately 5 acres (Gravenstein apples, figs, Santa Rosa plums, peaches, French prunes, pears, walnuts), and a small sheep-shearing barn.
242) being highly active against typical beverage spoiling microorganisms like yeast, bacteria, or mould.
In 1950 Ah Chan sold the vineyard to a distant kinsman, Stanley Young Chan, who changed its name to Totara Vineyards SYC.
Its name commemorates the event of the Wedding at Cana from the Gospel of John, thought by some Christians to have taken place on the site, during which Jesus performed his first miracle, by turning water into wine at the request or behest of Mary.
D'Hondt began her career at the age of nine by appearing in a movie at Shepperton Studios in England.
See also Oenology Vignerons indépendants de France Viticulture Wine fraud Winemaking cooperative References External links Media related to Winemakers at Wikimedia Commons
References La Confrérie Notre-Dame de Castille La ligne de démarcation Rémy Mémoires d'un Agent secret de la France libre, juin 1940-juin 1942, Raoul Solar, 1947.
and other special guests was transmitted by the Italian national TV network RAI, and was watched in over eight countries by 51,000,000 viewers around the globe, a 37 ratings share.
He is the owner, president and managing director of Bodegas Torres, and is a member of the fourth generation of this family business.
The cattle farm's profits were subject to the whims of commodity pricing swings, but wine could have more growth potential.
Ah Chan and his family settled in Blockhouse Bay, Auckland, on a five-acre property with six glasshouses, where he grew tomatoes for the Auckland markets.
He was one of three judges in the Champagne and Sparkling Wine World Championships alongside Tom Stevenson and Essi Avellan from its inception in 2014 to 2018.
The family travelled to South Australia on the Anglia, arriving 5 March 1851 James Edward Martin (13 September 1837 – 26 September 1892) married Ann "Annie" Goodman (ca.1830 – 17 November 1872) on 28 April 1866.
This dosage contributes 67 pm sulfur dioxide to the wort, but the level of active sulfur dioxide diminishes rapidly as it reacts with chlorine and chloramine, and with aldehydes (particularly in wine).
Mega Purple has raised some controversy within the wine consuming community as its use is considered to be akin to adulterating a wine.
She left Hollywood from 1966 to 1971, during which time she worked as a theatre director in the San Francisco Bay Area, where she also wrote for a magazine, produced educational films and taught acting at her own school, "The Actor's Lab", on Sacramento Street.
Pot still Distillation vessel, usually made of copper, used in the production of Cognac and other alcohol spirits.
Whilst working for Hattingley Valley she was awarded the UKVA Winemaker of the Year in 2014 and 2016.
Although George brought a Southdown ram and some ewes with him in 1827, he did not take up sheep raising seriously until the end of 1832 when he purchased a flock of local sheep and sent them to Mahngarinda.
He returned to Western Australia and, while continuing his full-time practice, in 1962 became the first person to receive an M.D.
His Sangiovese was the winner of the 2010 California State Fair and his Petite Sirah was award the prestigious Best In Class at the 2011 California State Fair.
He said that after suffering a heart attack in 1984 he wanted to pursue a career that was easier on his health.
Early life and education Boutaris was born in Thessaloniki on 13 June 1942, as son of the winemaker Stelios Boutaris and Fanny Vlachos.
He was a son of Auguste de Bavay Edith Tolley (26 September 1864 – ) married George Newell Nairn (c.
He was educated at Harrow School and Trinity College, Cambridge with the goal to enter the Church of England.
The Graeco-Roman architecture features Doric order and Corinthian order columns surrounding a courtyard that is enclosed with a low balustrade; in the distance, beyond the courtyard, there is an arcaded tower, by the architect Andrea Palladio.
Joseph's brother William emigrated to South Australia and leased Wongalere for ten years, after which it was managed by Joseph's son, also called William.
Restoration In 1989, the Louvre Museum began a painting restoration of The Wedding Feast at Cana, which provoked an art-world controversy like that caused by the 11-year Restoration of the Sistine Chapel frescoes (1989–1999).
A quality base wine has an alcohol content level between 10% and 11.5%, and a slightly acidic pH level.
and a great grandson of James Oatley, Lord Mayor of Sydney and a Member of the Legislative Assembly of New South Wales.
Wine philosophy Bize-Leroy is a strong believer in biodynamic wine production, and practices it in her domaines.
History Büring was born in Berlin, son of Caroline Henriette Auguste Büring and Friedrich Adolph Büring (c.
In 2012 he was chosen as 'the best mayor of the world' for the month of October, by the City Mayors Foundation, based in the UK.
Her father, who was commandant of the convict settlement from 1835 to 1939 at Norfolk, was one of eight nominated members of the Victorian Legislative Council.
At Firestone she was able to improve her skills in wine tasting and in 1984 she started her on consulting firm.
He was born in 1896 in Montfaucon, Lot, France, into an ancient aristocratic family, the son of Bernard de Chaunac-Lanzac and Marguerite Bibonnet.
Winemaking Torulaspora delbrueckii has been associated with winemaking for decades and isolated either from grape, must or wine.
He was a founding member of the Istituto Grandi Marchi, and was president of Associazione Grandi Cru d’Italia from 2016 to 2018.
Fermentation The first fermentation begins in the same way as any wine, converting the natural sugar in the grapes into alcohol while the resultant carbon dioxide is allowed to escape.
Early life Seaver was born in Fresno, California, to Betty Lee (née Cline) and Charles Henry Seaver.
The beefsteak used was the cut of sirloin known in French as contre-filet or entrecôte, and accordingly the restaurant was named Le Relais de Venise – L'Entrecôte.
Prior to the use of these varieties, wines in eastern North America were typically made with "foxy" native North American varieties like Concord or Niagara.
In 1958, she graduated from the Paris Conservatoire National d'Art Dramatique and acted in La Comédie Française with Catherine Deneuve.
Over time many of the oak properties get "leached" out of the barrel with layers of natural deposits left from the wine building up on the wood to where after 3 to 5 vintages there may be little or no oak flavors imparted on the wine.
By 1984, Oenotec had thirty clients, including Moët-Hennessy, which had engaged Oenotec on James Halliday's suggestion.
Baldwin was chairman of Peet's until 2001 when Peet's went public, and he became a director of the company.
The ostracon contains three letters in the Jewish script, dating back to the late first or early second century AD, featuring the letters ב,ג,ד.
Biography Cullen was born on 22 November 1922 in the Western Australian town of Bunbury as the younger son of Alfred, an English-born surgeon, and his locally born wife Elvie (née Clarke).
The result is sold under the name of the négociant, not the name of the original grape or wine producer.
Bladder A bladder press consists of a large cylinder, closed at each end, into which the fruit is loaded.
In the production of white wines, maceration is either avoided or allowed only in very limited manner in the form of a short amount of skin contact with the juice prior to pressing.
Julien Miquel AIWS is a French YouTuber and winemaker, best known for making word pronunciation videos on his channel, with over 58,000 uploads as of November 2025.
These methods included reducing chemical inputs, using natural groundcover, and employing ambient yeast during fermentation.
Instead of a plate being brought down to put pressure on the grapes, plates from either side of a closed cylinder are brought together to squeeze the grapes.
The two Gestapo officers fought over taking Philippine along with her mother, but one officer argued that he had a daughter the same age back home, so they left her alone.
King followed this with roles in The Butterfly Room (2012), Tales of Poe (2014), Killer Therapy (2019), and the Friday the 13th fan film Jason Rising (2021).
Two years later, the couple moved to Thames and opened a fruit shop and market garden, and in 1924 they leased land for a vineyard and opened Goldleaf Vineyard.
In Paris (1889) wine exhibition - "Exposition Universalle Internationale de 1889", Mukhranian sparkling wine got gold medal.
After the release of Friday the 13th and during the shooting of Friday the 13th Part 2, King was repeatedly harassed by a male stalker, which led her to recede from the public.
Rivera's constant commitment thus contributed to convincing local winegrowers to participate in the company, safeguarding the interests of the wine sector in the area, threatened by a grapes market characterized by increasingly and strong speculations to the detriment of winemakers.
Some maisons de Champagne (Champagne brands) claim to have secret recipes for this, adding ingredients such as old Champagne wine and candi sugar.
Use in Alsace For Alsace wines, SGN is the highest official category for late harvest wines, while the step below is called Vendange tardive.
At the end of the interval after the last scale is filled, the oldest scale in the solera is tapped for part of its content, which is bottled.
In 1999, Seaver ranked 32nd on Sporting News' list of the 100 Greatest Baseball Players, the only player to have spent a majority of his career with the Mets to make the list.
The German theologian Friedrich Justus Knecht points out three lessons that are to be drawn from this account at Cana: The power of Mary's intercession.
Personal life and death Boutaris spoke several times openly about his struggle with alcoholism and his successful effort to quit drinking back in 1991.
De Loach had been serving as a firefighter and tillerman in the San Francisco Fire Department, which he joined in 1966.
This differs from the more common practice of blending separate wine components into a cuvée after fermentation.
Three of the five ballots that had omitted Seaver were blank, cast by writers protesting the Hall's decision to make Pete Rose ineligible for consideration.
The spring of 'Ain Kanah ("Kanah Spring") near the village of Reineh, immediately northeast of Nazareth, has been proposed as an equally likely site by Conder in 1878, but has little going for it and has been rejected in more recent scholarship as a candidate.
In 2007 the Duncan Family of Silver Oak Cellars hired Ben as an assistant winemaker to Daniel Baron to develop the pinot noir program for Twomey Cellars, the sister winery to Silver Oak.
Pontbriand initiated the transition of the estate’s vineyards to organic farming in 2006 and completed their conversion to biodynamic practices in 2015.
Other processes One classical method of maceration is grape treading or pigeage, where grapes are crushed in vats by barefoot workers.
Starting in 1953, he directed the Vineyard Association, the controlling shareholder in Carmel Winery, and held this position for about thirty years.
Another version of the story places the event at the Closeburn Kirk Bridge Inn where the landlady was Catherine Stewart Bacon's mother.
Angelo Puglisi is an Australian winemaker, best known for owning and managing the Ballandean Estate on Queensland's Granite Belt with his family.
De Fournas also held a seat in the Departmental Council of Gironde for the canton of Le Nord-Médoc from 2015 to 2021.
She married Jacques Bollinger (1894-1941), general manager of Bollinger Champagne and grandson of founder Jacques Joseph Bollinger, on 10 November 1923.
At the time it showed a portrait and only when the overpainting was removed did the tempera painting of the wedding come to light.
Immigrating to Australia Refusing a post under the British government out of opposition to its policies, he instead emigrated to Australia as a farmer.
Baldwin Wines, a zinfandel and petite sirah grower and producer located in Sonoma Valley, California.
They produce a mix of Merlot, Zinfandel, Sauvignon Blanc, Barbera, Pinot Noir, Chardonnay, Petite Sirah and Cabernet Sauvignon.
During her tenure, she worked to unify the 36 growers in the appellation and elevate the global reputation of Savennières wines.
According to 17th-century legend and artistic tradition, the painter of the picture (Paolo Veronese) included himself in the banquet scene, as the musician in a white tunic, who is playing a viola da braccio.
After their marriage, the couple moved to Philadelphia, where her husband studied at the Wharton School.
Baldwin served as director and founding chairman of the Technical Standards Committee of the Specialty Coffee Association of America; president of Association Scientifique Internationale pour le Café (ASIC); and chairman of the Coffee Quality Institute.
He left South Australia and was publican of the Open Hearth Hotel, Warrawong, New South Wales and died shortly after, under suspicious circumstances.
Oatley's father was employed in the wool industry, which meant spending much of his working life was spent travelling in rural New South Wales.
They also own the Napa Wine Merchants cooperative tasting room as well as several thousand acres in the Chiles Valley.
Career Bize-Leroy established herself as a businesswoman in the Burgundy wine business in 1955, when she took over her father Henri Leroy's (1894–1980) négociant business.
Charles Sidney Bluemel (17 July 1884 – 17 December 1960) was a British–American psychiatrist and pioneer of speech pathology, best known for his research on stuttering.
She has said her experiences in criminology and psychology prepared her for a career in science and social policy.
The Tribune notes in its review: "The human rights of women have been a topic of debate the world over.
Sir Edward Marriott Cooke KBE (1852 – 17 October 1931) was a British doctor and Commissioner in Lunacy from 1898 to 1914, and a Commissioner of the Board of Control for Lunacy and Mental Deficiency.
Following the decision of Ukraine's and Russia's Ministries of Healthcare, a medal named after People's Doctor of the USSR A.
Paul Kennedy (1959–2016) was a clinical psychologist with expertise in spinal cord damage rehabilitation.
A few of these theories include, the disease model, the choice model, genetic contributions, the reward effect, and other environmental factors.
The aims of this study include determining whether data collected from adolescents' smartphone sensors can help to predict relapse in those with bipolar disorder and identifying differences in the digital phenotypes of typically developing adolescents and those with bipolar disorder.
He started to be known as Andrew Skarbek and in 1969 became clinical director of the London Clinic of Psychotherapy.
When Drummond failed to return, James Gregory was elected professor, and Duncan started an extra-academical course, as well as a public dispensary (the first free hospital in Scotland), which afterwards became the Royal Public Dispensary, incorporated by royal charter in 1818.
In this book, he advocates a psychological approach to the psychoses, rejects the concept of schizophrenia and considers symptoms worthwhile investigating in contrast to the Kraepelinian syndromes.
Cotton specialised in the care of patients with mental health issues, maintaining an asylum known as the Collegium Insanorum, at St Albans.
Pasricha co-authored the 2011 book Making sense of near-death experiences, which was Highly Commended in the Psychiatry category at the 2012 British Medical Association Book Awards.
If a person wants to regain his ability to be happy or be happier, he had to work his way through these layers.
Education In 1973, Linden completed a Vordiplom in Experimental Psychology, and in 1975, he earned his Diplom-Psychologe in Clinical Psychology from the University of Muenster.
Public psychiatry is very rewarding, and with disadvantaged patients, together with over-worked colleagues, clinicians have the potential to make a difference.
Utz also collaborated as a lyricist with classical composer Richard Lane on a number of songs, including several for children.
Biography Yuma became an activist for LGBT rights after the Federal Assembly passed its gay propaganda law in June 2013.
In addition, he supervised the preparation of the Syrian Christian Youth encounter with Pope John Paul II during his visit to Syria in May 2001.
While she was a doctoral candidate, she was also Administrative Chair of the Department of Nursing Education at St.
She is also a professor and research faculty in Arizona State University's Edson College of Nursing and Health Innovation, and is involved with their Center for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention and their Institute for Social Science Research, in which she is an affiliated faculty member.
His proposers were Sir Andrew Douglas Maclagan, John Sibbald, Sir William Turner and Alexander Buchan.
She has been a trustee for the Post Abortion Counselling Service (PACS) a regional committee member of the Family Planning Association and is presently assisting Ataxia UK.
During the campaign he openly identified himself as gay and as a member of the Gay Liberation Front, and in an interview with Gay News he reported that his sexuality had been extensively covered in the press and had attracted negative comments from opponents.
Other early arguments against the feminist art movement claimed that, ‘Femininity is not involved any more than masculinity in the work of men painters.
He led a successful campaign to allow psychologists to testify as experts in court in England, and was then himself an expert witness at a number of high-profile trials.
He also held at this time the post of Medical Tutor at Guy's and, in the absence of the staff, shared with Mr.
There he received his master's degree in science and his postgraduate diploma in clinical psychology.
She was a long-time professor of psychiatry at Weill Cornell Medical College and the Payne Whitney Psychiatric Clinic.
Biography Joseph D'Aquin (or Daquin) was born in 1732 in Chambéry, in the duchy of Savoy, part of the Kingdom of Sardinia.
From there she complete a post-doctoral fellowship at Yale University School of Medicine, Department of Psychiatry from 1998–1999.
He sat on the Prime Minister's independent commission that published the Front Line Care (Report) in 2010.
He won the "Beirut 39" festival of Hay Festival Foundation in cooperation with the Lebanese Ministry of Culture 2009.
Combe's essay was so clearly written that a subsequent opponent of phrenology alluded to its "satanic logic".
Marié Philliphina Wissing is a South African clinical psychologist, who is a professor at the Africa Unit for Transdisciplinary Health Research (AUTHeR) at the North-West University in South Africa.
In 1966 she qualified as a midwife, and in that year also became Britain's first black health visitor.
2000, ISBN 3-407-78393-0 When the World was New: Stories Annick Press Ltd., 1996, ISBN 978-1-55037-500-8 Mutter, Vater, ich und sie.
25, Transactions of the Linnean Society of London) Contributions to New Zealand Botany (1868) Observations on the Lichens collected by Dr.
Education and early career Spring studied psychology at Bucknell University and later completed doctoral training in psychology.
Doyle at University of Edinburgh, School of Chemistry Biography, qualifications, sources at Navigational Aids for the History of Science, Technology & the Environment "Archival material relating to William Cullen".
(2005) "Gibson, George (1885–1953)", Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, Oxford University Press, retrieved 21 July 2007 (subscription required) Carpenter, M.
During the late 2010s, she held mental health positions for the Alabama Department of Mental Health and Virginia.
She has written the book Seducing Your Man, hosted radio and television programs, and lifestyle topics, including Sex @ 11 with Rebecca.
Newton’s senior year he started on an offensive line that guided the Huskers to their first national championship.
On 10 July 1910 he became one of the co-founders of the National Asylum Workers' Union and was elected its first Secretary.
"When I arrived in Pakistan in January 1962, a new hospital administration was taking charge," Hanneman recalled in 1964.
Publications Lindsay was a regular contributor to the British Medical Journal, other works include: A Popular History of British Lichens (1856) Memoir on the Spermogones and Pycnides of Filamentous, Fruticulose and Foliaceous Lichens (1861, vol.
This was a revolutionary move away from unreliable student satisfaction surveys measures of student success and staff performance.
Mitchell graduated from the all-black Howard High School school of nursing training at Provident Hospital in 1944.
Life Liz Campbell was born in Glasgow, Scotland, in 1954 where she graduated from the University of Edinburgh.
Basic Books 1950, ISBN 978-1-59147-617-7 (2009 edition) with Charlotte Green Schwartz: Social Approaches to Mental Patient Care.
She then taught at the University of Surrey for some years before returning to Scotland, this time to the University of Glasgow where she became Head of the Section of Psychological Medicine and led the development of the Doctorate in Clinical Psychology.
Psychanalyses, psychothérapies : les principales approches (2003) Comment survivre à sa propre famille ?
Culbertson continued her education at University of Michigan, obtaining a master's degree in psychology in 1949 and a PhD in Social Psychology in 1955.
For the first two years of the organization, Astwood served as coordinator keeping the momentum going until the group was formally organized in 1992, with the goal of increasing the number of women involved in politics throughout the Commonwealth of Nations.
Dixon Clemmons (August 13, 1927 – June 9, 2013) was an American psychiatric nurse, missionary, and federal official.
Graham later found that CAIS was likely a misdiagnosis, and that he more likely has partial androgen insensitivity syndrome.
Inpatient rehabs Inpatient rehabs are substance-free facilities in which patients reside during their recovery process without the distractions of everyday life.
After the Matura, she was trained to be a laboratory assistant at the Vienna General Hospital, completing a diploma.
She helped open up new roles for nurses in mental health work, and demonstrated that they could be equal partners in a team, taking personal responsibility for patient care while collaborating with doctors and playing an important part in new developments in therapeutic treatment.
Upon graduation, he took a tenure-track position at the University of Concordia, where he was promoted to the rank of full professor in 2013.
in Educational Psychology and Counseling, Watson begun her career teaching nursing courses at the CU College of Nursing.
Sava (First Grade) 2001 Isidora Sekulić Award 2003 Dositej Obradović Award 2014 Teodor Pavlović Award 2015 Velika povelja Brankovog kola 2017 (Grand Charter of Honor of Branko's Circle) Feast of the Presentation Order, posthumously awarded, 2019 == References ==
She started a walk-in clinic, a mobile clinic, and a telephone helpline, and her efforts were credited with contributing to lowering the suicide rate in the city.
He served as a professor and Deputy Medical Superintendent at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bangalore.
After school, she studied nursing and practiced as a psychiatric nurse for two years until 1976, when she moved to California and worked as an assistant to David Gerrold.
The International Journal of Impotence Research has included it in a list of 20 authors from around the world with the largest bibliometric index in the andrology field and among the top three in the world for the diagnosis and treatment of premature ejaculation.
For example, there are genetic differences in how people respond to methylphenidate (Ritalin) injections.
An account of the journey, called Travels With Zenobia: Paris to Albania by Model T Ford was published in 1983.
"Brief cognitive-behavioral phone-based intervention targeting anxiety about the threat of attack: A pilot study." Behaviour Research and Therapy 43.5 (2005): 669-679.
Detecting therapeutic improvement early in therapy: validation of the SCORE-15 index of family functioning and change.
He was a figure in reform of the mental health system in the United States during the mid-19th century.
with a study conducted at the Max Planck Institute for Human Development in Berlin supervised by psychologist Paul B.
Biography Vladeta Jerotić grew up as the only child of an official of the Royal Court of Audit (Glavna kontrola) in Zadarska Street of the old Belgrade quarter Kosančićev venac.
He divides his attention between attending therapeutic teaching conferences, which have taken him around the world, and the writing of his books, which he considers therapeutic tools.
In 2000, he left the position to serve as Professor of Clinical Psychology at the Institute of Psychiatry of King's College London.
"Variables in delayed disclosure of childhood sexual abuse." American Journal of Orthopsychiatry 71.3 (2001): 332.
Awarded by Rhodes University for "contribution made by leading psychologists to social change in South Africa," September 2010.
He later co-founded the Libertarian Alliance and in 1982 would be identified with one of the two factions that resulted in the split of the group.
He then served as a human resources officer at Chromos, a Croatian paints and coatings manufacturer, for two years.
His latest book, The Art & Science of Mental Health Nursing (published in its 4th edition in 2018), is a standard textbook for mental health nurse education in the UK and is well known internationally.
Befrienders assignments are chosen on the basis of ethnicity, gender (usually the same sex as the person requiring help), age and needs of the person requiring help.
To relieve boredom and the strictness of the school, Kaupas played chess on weekends and often won in championships.
The group's members have been actively involved in lobbying for support of Insite, North America's first safe injection site, located in the Downtown Eastside of Vancouver.
She later went on to train as clinical psychologists at Rhodes University, where she received a master's degree in Clinical Psychology in 1984.
In 1947 she enrolled at the University of Oslo to study psychology and received training as physiotherapist which led to work with Aadel Bülow-Hansen.
His community art projects are exhibited at The Centre for Social Change and Kingston Museum in London.
In 2009, she was elected to represent Santa Cruz in the Senate as part of the opposition National Convergence alliance.
Her block record was surpassed in 2019 and her 1778 points put her in the top five for the university.
While serving as the pastor of Abbeville, he was elected as a representative of the First Estate in the Estates General, later serving in the National Constituent Assembly.
Norton & Company, 2016) ISBN 978-0-3937-0902-5 Sexual Reflections: A Workbook for Designing and Celebrating Your Sexual Health Plan (CHS, 2018) ISBN 978-1717166128 What Turns You On?: A Guide to Living Your Best Sex Life.
She then became a reader in nursing at the University of Teesside, and deputy director of the Teesside Centre for Rehabilitation Sciences.
She founded and served at the first American pediatric gender clinic at the Boston Children's Hospital, where she helped transgender teenagers and young adults transition.
The award conferred by the International Board on Books for Young People is the highest recognition available to a writer or illustrator of children's books.
George Earl Murphy (October 17, 1922 – 2022) was an American psychiatrist who made seminal contributions to research on suicide, psychotherapy, and alcoholism.
An issue with this theory is that most addictive drugs cause an individual to build up a tolerance and the effects of the drug will decrease as an individual's tolerance increases.
The Primary Personality and Secondary Personality are key concepts in Biodynamic psychology that developed by Gerda Boyesen.
The concept of emotional agility was named as the best business management idea of the year by Harvard Business Review.
His league and championship career at senior level with the Mayo county team lasted fourteen seasons from 1934 until 1948.
From 1984, the Sex Maniac's Diary was published as The Safer Sex Maniac's Diary and provided the first visual instructions to the public on how to put a condom on securely; it also reviewed condoms and offered safer sex advice, all at the beginning of the outbreak of HIV.
He is the Editor-in-Chief of the International Journal of Nursing Studies and a practising cognitive behavioural psychotherapist.
Writing and publications She has contributed to various anthologies on sexuality and human rights, which have been covered in media and scholarly reviews.
Nabila Espanioly (Arabic: نبيلة إسبنيولي, Hebrew: נבילה אספניולי) is a Palestinian-Israeli psychologist, social worker, feminist, and peace activist.
He was also visiting Bartenstein, but had to flee to Denmark after almost being captured by Soviet troops.
He rose to become Professor of Clinical Psychology, giving his inaugural lecture in 1979 titled "Hypnosis in the service of research".
Second Thoughts on the Theory and Practice of the Milan Approach to Family Therapy (The Systemic Thinking and Practice Series) (1st ed.).
He also works extensively on issues surrounding mentorship and skills-based approaches to early career development.
In 1993, Orford moved to the University of Birmingham initially to direct the training programme in clinical psychology.
Hanneman, a photogenic, college-educated nurse from Kansas, became an exemplar of the Peace Corps ideal.
Sir Frederick Walker Mott (23 October 1853 in Brighton, Sussex – 8 June 1926 in Birmingham, Warwickshire) was one of the pioneers of biochemistry in Britain.
Awards In 2004, the award for Anthropological and Humanistic Psychology by the Margrit-Egnér-Foundation.
Among participants with 1-year abstinence, 80% were still using e-cigarettes in the e-cigarette group and 9% were still using nicotine replacement in the nicotine replacement group 52 weeks later.
One of the attendees was Donald MacPherson, who later became drug-policy coordinator for Vancouver municipal government, and who also established the Canadian Drug Policy Coalition.
She will work with the faculty's Aboriginal Sovereign Strategy Group to establish an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health and Wellbeing Unit, ensuring cultural safety is embedded in the Faculty's work.
mental health settings and includes a model and treatment for social anxiety disorder (developed with D.
"We no longer encouraged any expectations [of continuity], but we did know that Convergence had to function throughout the legislature, with the greatest possibility of cohesion," she stated.
Archives Documents including medical certificates relating to Prichard and his second son, Augustin Prichard, are held at Bristol Archives (Ref.
"The Demobbing", published in Jewish Writing in the Contemporary World: South Africa, edited by Claudia Braude (Nebraska University Press, 2001).
It was the first film to feature an intersex actor, River Gallo, playing the role of an intersex person.
Her collaborative research has documented increased risk of sleep problems among children diagnosed with communication disorders, as well as heightened risk of attention and psychiatric disorders in children with low birth weight or a history of language impairment.
She led the developed the first online program to support university student health and wellbeing, thedesk and a tool to obtain valid metrics of student learning outcomes while linking them with just-in-time supports, The Learning Thermometer.
She has helped the prison inmates and the prison officers of Tihar Jail and Aligarh Jail to overcome mental health problems.
In years prior there have been many concerns regarding African-American women and AIDS since it was mainly focused on those who have used drugs and/or had sex with users.
In April 1995, Countess Spencer was photographed by tabloid newspapers while walking in the grounds of a private clinic in Surrey, where she spent five months receiving treatment for addiction issues, reportedly including alcoholism, as well as eating disorders.
Arndt has been criticised for dismissing genuine academic research when writing about the children of LGBTIQ parents.
As a result, she began researching the topic, eventually coming across a passage in the Qur'an discussing sexual relations between husbands and wives that she saw as speaking to the woman's sexual rights.
The Big Talk Kotb's show, The Big Talk, is a weekly call-in show broadcast on Al Mehwar, an Egyptian satellite channel; the show is transmitted across the Arab world.
Honors Officer of Order of Merit of the Italian Republic "On the initiative of the President of the Republic" - 2 December 1997 References External links ( EN ) Works by Emmanuele Jannini, on Open Library, Internet Archive .
She is also a member of the scientific advisory board of Psyberguide and the Money and Mental Health Policy Institute as well as a trustee of the charity, Weight Concern.
Secondary Personality is the term for the neurotic structure build-up of armouring in the mind, spirit and in the body.
The main purpose of her dissertation is to evaluate the psychosexual dysfunctions because these syndromes are among the most prevalent, worrying and distressing medical complaints of modern times.
He is known for his work in the fields of Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy and embodiment in clinical psychology.
He is also an honorary professor at the University of Salford (UK), University of Worcester (UK), and Queen's University Belfast (Northern Ireland).
In 1978 Mayor Ed Koch reappointed Christmas as the city's Commissioner of Mental Health, Mental Retardation.
Ediciones La Llave References External links Official website Institut Gestalt Estudio Corazza para la Actuación
Her book Hot, Hot, Hot: The Body Electric has been described as “a seminal work” and has been in print for over 30 years while Divorce and Your Children was the first UK based book on the subject and has also been in print for over 30 years.
Holmes (born 1971 in Surrey, England) is a clinical psychologist and neuroscientist known for her research on mental imagery in relation to psychological treatments for post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), bipolar disorder, and depression.
The van has also served as an education and research facility, providing training to health professionals and a safe and private place for research data collection.
In 2016, she set up the Asian Women's Action for Resilience and Empowerment (AWARE), a culturally-informed group psychotherapy intervention for Asian American women.
As of 2024, McIntosh is a board member of the Aotearoa New Zealand Association for Cognitive Behavioural Therapies.
She first met her partner, the psychotherapist Anne Marie Toole, when they shared a room at a weekend mental health conference in Wicklow.
Stergiopoulos had also served as the medical director of the Inner City Health Associates (ICHA) from 2007 to 2011 , which refers to a group of health care providers providing specialized services to vulnerable populations, specifically those experiencing homelessness, in Toronto, Canada.
She was presented with the Order of the British Empire in 1996 and honored as a "community hero" in Bermuda in 2015.
Tatia Mei Chun Lee (Chinese: 李湄珍) is a Hong Kong clinical psychologist specializing in neuropsychology and human neuroscience.
Many other scientists label them as a hallucinatory experience and as "a physiological state occurring within an oxygen starved brain." Selected publications Satwant Pasricha, Can the Mind Survive Beyond Death?
Duane also shares story credit on the TNG episode "Where No One Has Gone Before" with Michael Reaves.
One day I was on a bus, and I was upstairs and I was at the corner of Parliament Street, and I saw a black man.
Career During the 1970s, Hogan was an active member of various mental health initiatives across Jackson, Mississippi.
He was the author of Visions in Verse, first published in 1751; and a two volume complete collection of his works was published in 1791.
She felt acute isolation: I wish I could be back home so bad it hurts, tears came into your eyes, because you missed the sort of freedom and companionship that you used to have, you know, with your own kind.
He started his career as a Psychologist at HM Prison Bristol, moving after eleven years to become Head of Forensic Psychology at Arnold Lodge Secure Unit in Leicester (1983).
She also served as a superintendent of nurses at Adams Nervine Hospital in Massachusetts, a position she held for three years.
He is known for early controlled studies comparing psychotherapy vs pharmacotherapy for major depressive disorder.
These papers guide readers through the process of evidence-based assessment and are intended to facilitate early identification and appropriate treatment for youth with mental health problems.
Very few people manage to maintain sobriety without experiencing a relapse; it is not common for one to sustain perfect sobriety on their first attempt of abstinence.
A Clinically Orientated Strategy in Individual-Centred Research, British Journal of Social and Clinical Psychology, 8 (3), 290–291.
On 6 May 2022, Gay Community News (Dublin) published an article about concerns people raised over O'Malley being invited to address an Education and Training Boards Ireland (ETBI) conference on managing gender issues in schools.
Spider-Man Duane wrote a trilogy of Spider-Man novels, The Venom Factor, for Byron-Preiss Multimedia from 1994 to 1996.
Bibliography Books It Doesn't Have To Be So Hard: the Secrets to Finding and Keeping Intimacy, forthcoming Random House, 2012.
Career Peter Carter trained for three years as a psychiatric nurse at Hill End Hospital in St Albans, undertaking further training in family therapy and crisis intervention.
where he attended University of Auckland(1964-1966) Career in family therapy In New Zealand Epston started working as a senior social worker in an Auckland hospital.
Her work as Vice-Chancellor has focused on expanding research programs at UNIBE at both graduate and undergraduate levels, capacity building with focus on gender equity, and strengthening UNIBE's local and international research network.
In 1922, he authored The Heart of the Anti-Vivisectionist which criticized arguments of the anti-vivisection movement.
References External links Nathaniel Cotton at the Eighteenth-Century Poetry Archive (ECPA) Visions in Verse, in an 1826 anthology "Nathaniel Cotton 1705–1788".
Admitted as a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians in 1791, and acted as Censor on three separate occasions.
Career On November 21, 2014, it was announced that Sudders would be appointed Secretary of Health and Human Services of Massachusetts, when Charlie Baker took office as Governor.
In addition to Tatler, she was pictured in well-known magazines such as British Vogue, American Vogue, Vogue Italia, Marie Claire, Elle Japan, and Harper’s Bazaar, among others.
Born at Gy, a small village in the Haute-Saône department, he was member of the Academy of Moral and Political Sciences and researched mental illnesses and phrenology.
Encouraged by this success, in 1831, Combe published his Observations on Mental Derangement, which was very successful.
Festschrift für Martin Salzer (in German), Wien: Rebell, ISBN 978-3-9500516-0-5 Monika Salzer; Peter Karner [in German] (2008), Vom Christbaum zur Ringstraße.
After training initially as a psychiatric nurse, Pulotu-Endemann became a health consultant on the Pacific Health issue, and created the Fonofale Model of Pacific Health has been accepted by the Mental Health Commission of New Zealand.
The same year Batten facilitated the Ponsonby Women's Outreach, a gallery environment specifically for women.
He died of exhaustion and malnutrition brought on by extreme dyspepsia on 24 November 1880 at his home at 3 Hartington Gardens in Edinburgh.
Linden is a fellow of the Canadian Psychological Association (CPA) and the American Psychological Association (APA).
The doctor was sentenced in the first instance to a total penalty of 128 years imprisonment, plus fines for indecent assault with presumed violence, since the victims were unable to defend themselves.
The book suggested three distinct types of stress management programs: "systematic-preventative", "broad-based stress vaccination and prevention", and "reactive problem-solving interventions".
The documentary addressed transgender children and their gender dysphoria, expressing concerns that too many children were transitioning and doing so too young.
Handbook of Drug and Alcohol Studies, SAGE 2016 Growing up with risk, edited by Betsy Thom, Rosemary Sales and Jenny Pearce, Policy Press 2007 == References ==
Publications Réseau Alternative à la psychiatrie (1977) Formations et pratiques en thérapie familiale (1985) Les pratiques de réseaux : santé mentale et contexte social (1987) Si tu m’aimes, ne m’aime pas.
Although he was a good scholar, Gibson left school at the age of eleven and held a variety of jobs before moving to England in 1910 to become an attendant at Winwick Asylum in Warrington.
OCLC 863660808.{{cite book}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) Steele, David Ramsay (2017).
Widmer was a medical specialist in psychiatry and psychotherapy FMH (Foederatio Medicorum Helveticorum), employed in his own medical practice.
Although he enjoyed the academic parts of his schooling, he enjoyed sport more, playing cricket in the summer and rugby union in the winter.
Sudders left office at the end of the Baker–Polito administration and joined the lobbying, public policy, and consulting firm of Smith, Costello and Crawford.
Reviewing the book in The Psychologist, Caroline Flurey writes, "This is a beautifully poignant book, written with sympathy and sensitivity, well deserving of its Costa Book of the Year award." Filer has written on a range of issues for The Guardian.
He is known for his work in mental health statistics, particularly assessing the reliability of diagnostic classifications, and the measures, models, and control of errors in categorization.
She is a fellow in the American Academy of Nursing and the Gerontological Society of America, a former director of a Robert Wood Johnson Teaching Nursing Home Project, and a recipient of a Geriatric Mental Health Academic Award from the National Institute of Mental Health.
I), and in 1835 a Treatise on Insanity and Other Disorders Affecting the Mind, in which he advanced the theory of the existence of a distinct mental illness called moral insanity.
She also co-hosts The Sexy Minds podcast with Boys’ Night Out’s Tony Toni, where they talk about Filipino sexual experiences and behaviors.
He was an acting professor at Heidelberg University (Germany, 2005–06) and at the University of Bochum (Germany, 2009–10) and visiting professor at Queen's University of Kingston (Canada, 2009).
The RCN won awards under his leadership as an exemplar employer – obtaining a Gold award from Investors in People and, since 2010, being in the Sunday Times Best 100 Not for Profit Organisations.
In later years, she suffered from the neurodegenerative condition, progressive supranuclear palsy, and ended her life at Dignitas in Switzerland.
Schwartz (December 20, 1916 – November 4, 1995) was an American professor of sociology at Brandeis University and an author.
On 30 June 2021, the advertisement “Recipes for a Happy Family” was published on the VkusVill website, which described families buying products in the supermarket chain.
Selected publications Editor Wissing has edited a volume on Well-being Research in South Africa, and to which she also contributed several chapters.
In most cases, towns contracted with local individuals to care for mentally ill people who could not care for themselves and lacked family/friends to do so.
was awarded based on his thesis entitled “Dental Anxiety: A Cognitive Perspective” which explored the cognitive aspects of dental phobia.
Budget impact of the announced measures In 2025, the total budget proposed for education was estimated at approximately 61.8 billion lei for schooling and 63.98 billion lei for the entire ministry after reorganisation, i.e.
She provides psychological assistance to LGBT community from Chechnya who said Russian police tortured them in 2017 and 2018.
After Cohen-Greene graduated from Salem High School, she attended the Institute for Advanced Study of Human Sexuality in San Francisco.
A group of historiographers wrote about him: A social outcast, Tytler did much hack work for low pay and rarely if ever emerged from poverty.
The gardens were ransacked by invading Swedish troops under Herzog Bernhard von Weimar in 1633-4, but were reconstructed and opened to the public of Eichstätt in 1998.
However, this leads to confusion with his son, Claude François Geoffroy (1729–1753), who is known as "Claude Geoffroy the Younger".
at Cambridge in 1678, having received a Lambeth degree earlier in the same year from William Sancroft, Archbishop of Canterbury.
1695 – 1788) who was apothecary to King George I and George II, and was apothecary general to the British army.
Their children included: Alexander Thomson of Duddingston, advocate, (died 1603), who married Margaret Preston in 1594, a daughter of Samuel Preston of Craigmillar, and widow of Walter Cant.
At the same time (November 1, 1301), Charles of Valois entered Florence with the Black Guelphs, who in the next six days destroyed much of the city and killed many of their enemies.
As writers, both wrote many poems, religious treatises, scientific and historical works and translations, and theatrical and musical pieces, including the first Dutch opera.
Lucas was one of 49 physicians and chirurgeons who declared their public support for the construction of a Publick Bath in Dublin in May 1771 and named Achmet Borumborad as a well qualified individual for carrying such a scheme into existence.
Normally the sight of prayer flags and the smell of incense repel me, but the store’s herbs and other products, along with the knowledgeable service, have made Tenzing Momo part of my regular routine...
Thomas died at his home in Pall Mall in London and was buried at St Mary's, Harrow on the Hill, where a wall plaque commemorates him and his wife Anne.
His renowned expertise led him to be summoned as witness in various high-profile trials and committees, such as the Richard Arkwright patent trials that persisted throughout the 1780s.
The pharmacy is still part of Merck KGaA, but the original building was destroyed during World War II in the bombing campaigns, and therefore it is a new construction.
The newspaper's Connie McDougall wrote, "Who can resist a shop with the translated name of 'divine dumpling'?
This herbarium was preserved at Chelsea, with those of Ray and Dale, until 1863, when all three were presented to the British Museum (Journal of Botany, 1863, p.
His father's patent granted the reversion of the office to Chase himself, and after his father's death in 1690, Chase became court apothecary to William III in June 1690, at an annual salary of £115, with an annual allowance of £127 and lodgings in Whitehall.
External links Ownership inscription of Hugh Morgan WorldCat References Sources Bradford, Charles Angell (1939).
Olcott then started his own apothecary business, which turned into a successful semi-jobbing business located at the corner Madison and Catherine streets.
The most important of his works, Versuch einer Naturgeschichte von Liefland, is one of the earliest descriptions of the nature of Livonia.
Court apothecary Chase was a Freeman of the Apothecaries’ Company and was its Master from June 1688 to September 1689.
History Because of the unregulated nature of pharmaceutical enterprises throughout much of the 19th century and early 20th century, drugs were sold at many establishments, including bookstores and general stores.
His popularity earned him the office of Secretary in 1769, which involved running in yearly elections against candidates who would often run smear campaigns in the newspaper.
On completion of his apprenticeship he went, as was the custom of the day, for further education at a continental University.
The end of World War II sparked development, so at a town planning board meeting held on 5 February 1962, a proposal was made to establish a local heritage organization.
After inheriting an estate at the age of 62, he retired there and was appointed a deputy lieutenant of Devonshire in 1831.
Chemistry Charas' Pharmacopée royale contains one of the earliest comprehensive classification of chemical elements and compounds, which can be regarded as the forerunner of chemical symbols and periodic table.
They remarked they had "too much reason to apprehend" that it had "been of very bad consequence this war." Parr was a member of the African Company of Merchants whose purpose was to lobby in favour of the slave trade.
The first English language translation, performed by Alice de Rosen Jervis, was published in 1927 as A Florentine diary from 1450 to 1516.
Craigie was also fundamental in convincing Middlesex County authorities to move the Middlesex County Courthouse (Massachusetts) from Harvard Square to a new Charles Bulfinch-designed building in East Cambridge.
The painting is noted for its many references to mortality, the passing of time and the fragility of life as Thomas had died by the time the painting was completed.
Political career At the 1690 English general election Chase was returned as Member of Parliament for Great Marlow in Buckinghamshire.
For ten years he was also an investor in the adjoining mine of Pednandrea, which was worked for both tin and copper.
Dante was instrumental in establishing the literature of Italy, and is considered to be among the country's national poets and the Western world's greatest literary icons.
He travelled in Italy around 1625 and worked at Rüeber's Apotheke zum Löwen in Ulm with studies under the physician Sebastian Stromeier.
Many of Newton's biographers have noted that it was the lessons learned from Clarke that sparked Newton's interest in chemistry.
In November 1691, Houghton issued, with the support of leading Fellows of the Royal Society, A Proposal for Improvement of Husbandry and Trade, which later took the shape of another Collection published in weekly folio numbers, of which the first appeared on 30 March 1692, and the last (No.
During the Munster Rebellion (1534–35), a splinter group staged a temporary social revolution which endangered their existence and were ostracised for their role in the Radical Reformation.
In December 1595 MacCartney and the surgeon James Henrysoun were asked to perform an autopsy on Jonet Lyle who was thought to have been poisoned.
Locally his reputation was built as much on treating others as surviving the contact with so many instances of disease.
He returned to England on 6 December 1681, and was immediately conferred a (kind of) citizenship to live there without restrictions.
He also engaged in studies of the natural environment of present-day Latvia, and produced several works on the nature of Latvia in which he also referred to the native Latvian names of plants and animals.
Joachim Christian Timm died in Malchin in 1805 and is regarded today as a pioneer of modern botany in Germany.
William Sole made his will shortly before his death on 15 January 1802 and left his estate to his siblings living in Cambridgeshire.
Works Houghton edited a periodical, A Collection of Letters for the Improvement of Husbandry & Trade, published as two vols.
John White Abbott (13 May 1763 – 1851) was an English surgeon and apothecary in Exeter, remembered as a keen amateur painter in both watercolour and oils.
Professional life Apothecary Apothecary shops are a place that is able to provide medications and remedies to diseases.
John Bagford then somewhat later argued for an origin of the assemblage in the Roman presence under the Emperor Claudius; this was in a letter of 1715, in which Bagford accepted the human origin of the handaxe.
He is known as Geoffroy the Younger to distinguish him from his brother, Geoffroy the Elder (1672–1731).
On 10 February 1594 he was appointed to attend Anne of Denmark at Stirling Castle when she gave birth to Prince Henry, with the doctors Martin Schöner, Gilbert Moncreiff, and the surgeon Gilbert Primrose.
The masque was produced by George Villiers, Marquess of Buckingham in celebration of his marriage to Lady Katherine Manners, first staged at Burley-on-the-Hill, and again at Belvoir Castle and Windsor Castle.
He trained under Joachim Christian Timm (1734–1805) in Malchin, afterwards working as an apothecary in Rostock, Neubrandenburg, Anklam, Woldegk and Waren.
Heinrich Emanuel Merck (15 September 1794 – 14 February 1855) was an apothecary whose descendants are the founders of Merck and Company and Merck KGaA.
By 14 December 1703, he was at the Golden Fleece, on the corner of Little Eastcheap in Gracechurch Street, London.
A copy of a household roll of the Scottish court made around 1507 names him and William Foular as the court "pottingaris".
Le géant, la licorne et la tulipe : Les cabinets de curiosités en France au XVIIe sciècle (in French).
Historical references Even historical accounts of his life are intermixed with legends and folklore.
'Two months later the King sent a letter to the company containing a request that this Major Rowswell should be elected Master.
Although some described Levet as a quack, Johnson and his biographer observed that while working as a waiter in a Parisian coffeehouse, the young Yorkshireman's habit of eavesdropping on conversations of physicians had been noted, and some had taken a collection to get Levet some training.
As an aviculturist he maintained nearly 150 bird species and in the course of a decade managed to breed nearly 63 species including several African weaverbirds for the first time in captivity.
But it can function as more than just a pit-stop for vacationing hippies or angst-ridden teen witches if you let it—the store's staff are herbal sommeliers.
Since the majority of women in this era were denied access to university training, apprenticeship was one way to acquire the skills needed to practice.
Rand produced two catalogues of the Garden and coöperated with the Leiden Physic Garden via Herman Boerhaave.
485-486 Mémoire sur la décomposition, par l'acide marin, de plusieurs sels vitrioliques et nitreux à base métallique, Académie royale des sciences, 1779, p.
Authorship of the non-canonical Sutra on the Unlimited Life of the Threefold Body is attributed to En no Gyōja.
The college did not, however, question the quality of the medicines she prepared or her credentials as an apothecary.
In the year of 1759, he published another short essay on smallpox, Reasons against an opinion that a person infected with the Small-pox may be cured by Antidote without incurring the Distemper.
Between 1644 and 1649 Barsalou practiced in Florence, attending to the Grand Duke Ferdinando II de' Medici.
(2000), Der Landkreis Demmin Historische Stätten (in German), Stavenhagen: Khs Verlag & Service GmbH, pp.
At his death the "drugs, unguents, plasters, spices, and other medicaments" in his shop and cellar were worth £300 Scots.
The Apothecary to the Household was originally responsible for providing medicine to members of the Royal Household; a separate officer, the Apothecary to the Person, ministered to the Sovereign.
497-501 With Lassone, Mémoire sur une inflammation spontanée du phospore, avec quelques remarques sur la nature de son acide, Académie royale des sciences, 1780, p.
567-582 Avec Lassone, Mémoire sur un phénomène singulier que présentent les acides minéraux, pendant leur concentration; et sur un nouveau moyen de se procurer facilement de l'eau-forte des plus pures, Académie royale des sciences, 1781, p.
The Boates had qualified as doctors at Leiden University, but as Dutch physicians were at first considered "irregular practitioners" not approved to practice by the College of Physicians of London (CPL).
He is known as l'Aîné (the elder) to distinguish him from his younger brother, Hilaire Rouelle, who was also a chemist and known as the discoverer of urea.
The opinion was that of Boerhaave, Cheyne, and others, that the development of smallpox after exposure to infection could be checked by a timely use of the æthiops mineral.
He had only seventeen children, most of whom were stillborn or died in infancy, and his grandchildren were fewer than thirty in number.
His Umidi brethren expelled him for a time, because of his ruthless criticism of the Arameans, a party of academicians led by Giambattista Gelli who maintained that the Florentine language was derived from Hebrew, Aramaic, or some other branch of the Semitic.
This supply facility was established in Lititz, Pennsylvania in 1778, and Craigie was stationed there for a period.
Mocquet appealed discretely to Marie de' Medici to let him continue the project, but without success.
But she was kept short of money to feed, clothe and bring up their large family; she sometimes had to hide her housekeeping allowance lest he raid it.
https://discovery.nationalarchives.gov.uk/details/r/C169406 https://www.british-history.ac.uk/report.aspx?compid=40580#s3
He was one of just three people with addresses in Poplar and Blackwall to be found in Thomas Mortimer's Universal Director of 1763.
After some studies in theology and language, he shifted to medicine and chemistry at Tübingen, then Altdorf and Wittenberg.
Philip Miller was gardener throughout Rand's tenure of the office of præfectus, and it was in 1736 that Carl Linnæus visited the garden.
He is known as Claude Geoffroy the Younger to distinguish him from his father Claude Joseph Geoffroy the Older (1685–1752), also a French chemist and apothecary, member of the Académie des sciences.
The group was severely persecuted for their dissident beliefs, such as believer's baptism, foot washing, "defenseless" pacifism, and the ban on swearing oaths.
He was buried in Warstone Lane Cemetery, Birmingham where his grave, thought to have been grassed over, has recently been discovered.
He alleged that Shires had overstated his qualifications to gain the post of "Sergeant of the Confectionary", and had become a "servitour odoriferous" to the king.
When Parliament assembled on 10 October, the lord-lieutenant in his speech from the throne animadverted on certain bold attempts to create jealousies between the two kingdoms.
Because of this, the leaders of Culpeper's Rebellion, Zachariah Gillam and John Culpeper, were jailed after their arrival in London, although Gillam was released from jail because of the lack of evidence to prove the charges.
He later started a public course in his laboratory in 1738, in 1742 he was appointed experimental demonstrator of chemistry at the Jardin du Roi in Paris.
In November 1602 he was paid £388 Scots for "drugs, oils, unguents, medicaments, and plasters" supplied to the king.
His father John Browne of London was an apothecary, and Browne joined the Society of Apothecaries in 1697.
The two often supped together, and despite their different backgrounds seemed to enjoy each other's company.
Andrew Craigie (1754–1819) is best known for serving as the first Apothecary General of the Continental Army during the American Revolution.
He wrote of his "discovery" in A mite cast into the treasury of the famous city of London, being a brief and methodical discourse of the nature, causes, symptomes, remedies and preservation from the plague, in this calamitous year, 1665, digested into aphorismes.
He became famous for publishing compendiums of medication formulas, which played vital roles in the development of modern pharmacy and chemistry.
Death William Rosewell is reported to have died in the 1680s but no specific date of death or burial has been found.
He moved to Berlin in 1867 to write books, his first writings were on the freedom of the press and worker's rights and he showed support for Hermann Schulze-Delitzsch.
In 1688, he became the director of this institution, and, along with associates and collaborators, botanist Jan Commelin and anatomist Frederik Ruysch he had a hand in its herbalist Hortus Medicus flowering into the global Hortus Botanicus (Amsterdam) of today.
His sons Joseph and Benjamin inherited his wine business and had real estate dealings (a quitclaim) with Joseph Fox, of Plymouth, Devon, but late of Mark Lane, London.
He was appointed on 18 December 1626 to supply "perfumes, sweet powders, and other odoriferous things" to Henrietta Maria.
Biography He was born in Florence or in Staggia Senese (he wrote of himself: Io sono a Staggia, ch'è la patria mia, e de' miei primi l'antica magione…) of a good family, but there is no record of his upbringing and education.
In the historical fantasy novel Teito Monogatari by Hiroshi Aramata the protagonist Yasunori Kato claims to be a descendant of En no Gyōja.
In 1589, she became the second wife of Georg I, Landgrave of Hesse-Darmstadt and moved to Darmstadt with most of her children.
Johann Heinrich Linck the elder (17 December 1674 – 29 October 1734) was a German apothecary and naturalist.
As a result, in 1632, Susan Reeve Lyon was prosecuted by the College of Physicians for selling medicines to an unlicensed physician.
Mocquet had the intention of making a circumnavigation of the globe, but he only reached the south of Spain before he had to abort his efforts and returned to Paris.
He was educated at Kendal grammar school, Hudson was subsequently apprenticed to an apothecary in London.
During this time he started his scientific work, which later became the basis for the discovery of morphine.
from the University of Edinburgh for his ‘Medicina Statica Britannica’ (1712), a translation of the ‘Aphorisms’ of Sanctorius, of which a second edition appeared in 1720.
Joachim Christian Timm (7 December 1734 – 3 February 1805) was a German apothecary, mayor of Malchin, and a botanist with a particular interest in cryptograms.
Politics In addition to his flourishing medical practice, Parkinson had an avid interest in geology and palaeontology, as well as the politics of the day.
En route to the continent he took a course of anatomy in London from a fellow Scot Dr Robert Erskine of Alva, before further studies at the University of Leyden.
He was first educated in music by his father, but being orphaned at age 12, he apprenticed to his godfather, the apothecary, Johannes Romke.
Politics The second edition of the Encyclopædia Britannica is politically moderate because Bell and Macfarquhar curbed Tytler's reformism.
The captain of the Briton, William Bagshaw, had been entertaining Lemma Lemma for 10 days while he and his men captured people.
Background In the 1960s, there was increasing interest in Ontario for the historic preservation of buildings to prevent their demolition.
He also noted that the concentrations of materials could alter reaction directions and rates in 1788.
The work is dedicated to two men at the top of Amsterdam's political leadership: burgomaster Gillis Valckenier and counselor Johannes Hudde.
In 1879 he was concerned about the hunting of hares in Germany as they had suffered from bad climatic conditions leading to the death of many in the previous two seasons.
Early life and career Johann Baptist Ziz was born on 8 October 1779 in Mainz, the eldest son of the wine merchant Melchior Ziz and Anna Maria Froelich.
The Italian physician Girolamo Cardano, who came to Scotland in 1552, described a pearl head dress worn by Thomson's daughter, comprising 73 Scottish pearls, "I saw on a girl's head, the daughter of Thomas Thomson in Edinburgh, about seventy three Scottish pearls, of equal and remarkable size".
Just as a great wine shop will help you more and more as they get to know your tastes, so will Tenzing Momo with what ails or occupies you.
Johnson knew little of Levet's background, but he seemed to cherish the awkward, unpolished man nonetheless.
Later in 1727, Daniel moved to Boston to join her after resigning his post as pastor of the Congregational Church in Yarmouth.
With the enthronement of the new Pope Innocent X, and the subsequent disgrace of Barberinis for corruption and nepotism Barsalou lost favour and had to leave the papal city.
1700–1703 — An account of part of a collection of curious plants and drugs, lately given to the Royal Society of the East India Company, Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society Gazophylacii naturae & artis decades (in Latin).
For each entry Ziz recorded vernacular French names, precise collection localities—often his own discoveries—and the number of specimens he dried, marking rarities with red symbols.
While apparently initially successful on a trial involving a dog, the powder caused severe burns without slowing the bleeding when applied to humans.
When that monarch determined in 1617 to incorporate the Society of Apothecaries, 114 apothecaries, being his majesty's ‘natural subjects,’ were nominated as members.
He settled in England and was naturalised as a British subject by Act of Parliament introduced in 1783 (23 Geo.
Despite this, Joseph Barsalou was not an alchemist: there is no reference in his letters to a quest for the philosopher's stone or the transmutation of metal into gold.
Observatio 46 heart block, or Observatio 81 aortic aneurysm, in which he references a letter by Vesalius to his grandfather Achilles Gasser.
John Wolfgang Rumler, like many students of his time, kept a Liber Amicorum, a kind of autograph book, recording people he met during his travels and studies.
But unfortunate experiences with his patients drew his attention to food and drug adulteration, which became the major preoccupation of his life.
He was captured and held in prison by the Spanish Inquisition while travelling around Spain, until he renounced his Protestantism and converted to Catholicism.
On November 12, Myers contested the election on the grounds that several wards in the city of Philadelphia submitted false election results.
While there, he disentangled himself from a lawsuit over an unpaid debt that Shippen had been fighting while he was away, paying £900 (equivalent to £122,000 in 2025) to settle a £12,000 (equivalent to £1,629,000 in 2025) loan that he had taken while living in Philadelphia.
When the French Academy of Sciences was founded in 1666, Jean-Baptiste Colbert was assigned by Louis XIV to select members and he appointed Samuel Cottereau du Clos and Claude Bourdelin who were both associated with medicine.
By his wife, Judith Chamberlaine, he had a son Abraham, who married Anne, daughter of Sir Richard Sandys of Northbourne Court, Kent; and a daughter, Anne, married to Sir Richard Sprignell, bart., of Coppenthorpe, Yorkshire.
His work set a precedent that important Italian writers such as Petrarch and Boccaccio would later follow.
Since 1875, a collection of his mosses has been kept at the British Museum of Natural History (250 specimens in 5 fascicles).
Lambert Bidloo (30 August 1638 – 11 June 1724), of Amsterdam, was by religion, a Zonist Mennonite, by profession, an apothecary and botanist and by passion, a man of letters and translator.
A medication included in his formulary was theriac which was first made popular by the Greeks as an antidote to animal bites and disseminated over the Silk Route.
While working at the Jardin des Plantes in Paris, he was invited to England as pharmacist to Charles II of England.
The Aldermen strenuously resisted reform, and in 1743 he published A Remonstrance against certain Infringements on the Rights and Liberties of the Commons and Citizens of Dublin, arguing that the right of electing Aldermen lay with the entire corporation.
That training consisted mostly of apothecary study, as well as the occasional attendance at medical lectures.
References Attribution This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Boase, George Clement (1891).
He however soon set out again, travelling through the Mediterranean to Lebanon and Jerusalem via Cyprus, Malta and Sardinia.
The election was contested by Leonard Myers on the grounds that several wards in Philadelphia submitted false results.
Foular also sent the queen medicinal spices including pepper, cinnamon, "cubebarum", and "galiga", with glass urinals.
Works Haslam wrote: Observations on Insanity, with Practical Remarks on the Disease and an Account of the Morbid Appearances on Dissection, 1798.
Shortly after Washington's rebuke, a Congressional inquiry concluded that Arnold had failed to account fully for his expenditures incurred during the Quebec invasion, and that he owed the Congress some £1,000 (equivalent to £155,000 in 2025) largely because he was unable to document them.
Works In Leonard Plukenet's Mantissa, published in that year, he is mentioned as the discoverer, in Tothill Fields, Westminster, of the plant now known as Rumex palustris, and was described (p.
Weinmann prospered in Regensburg so that he was able in 1712 to purchase a house and apothecary shop.
He conducted studies of alkaline salts in plants, on the combustion of chalk and argued against the possibility of transmutation of elements.
During the last years of her husband's life she managed the pharmacy as he was bedridden and ill, and upon his death she inherited the pharmacy and work license in accordance with existing guild regulations.
Narciso Marull (1747-c.1820) was a Spanish apothecary and merchant, who served as Asentista de Medicina in the Real Audiencia of Buenos Aires.
This indicates that women were not given credit for their work as apothecaries, although they had a giant role in these shops.
In addition to his investigation of neutral salts, he published papers on the inflammation of turpentine and other essential oils by nitric acid, and the methods of embalming practised in Ancient Egypt.
He was known for his administrative ability which he extended to the Royal Society to which he (along with Samuel Doody) was elected in 1695 and Society of Apothecaries.
In the anime Zenki, a posthumous character named Enno Ozunu was the master of Zenki, who would centuries later be summoned again by his descendant, Chiaki Enno.
At this time he was leasing the Copperas Works in Bromley from his brother-in-law, the shipwright John Perry Sr (father of John Perry) of Blackwall Yard.
Charas was inducted as member of the Académie des sciences (the French Academy of Sciences) in 1692 at the age of 73.
Barsalou wrote to his friend Charles Bouvard about the experiments he carried out to create new elixirs.
Antonio Francesco Grazzini or Antonfrancesco Grazzini (March 22, 1503 – February 18, 1584) was an Italian Renaissance author.
Historisch-kritische Untersuchung der Alchemie oder der eingebildeten Goldmacherkunst, von ihrem Ursprunge sowohl als Fortgange, und was nun von ihr zu halten sey.
Life and work Hudson was born between 1730 and 1732 at the White Lion Inn, Kendal, which was kept by his father.
There are also historical markers bearing his name at Wyman Lake Rest Area on US-201 north of Moscow, Maine, on the western bank of Lake Champlain, and two in Skowhegan, Maine.
Edinburgh burgh hosted a banquet for the queen's brother, Ulrik, Duke of Holstein, on 2 May 1598 at the house of Ninian MacMorran at Riddle's court.
Smith, "marks the establishment of Linnean principles of botany in England." Smith writes that the work was "composed under the auspices and advice of Benjamin Stillingfleet".
The older of two sons of a prosperous citizen of Florence, Landucci was trained as a bookkeeper, and became the apprentice to an apothecary at the age of sixteen.
Political career In this year Lucas was chosen as one of the representatives of his corporation on the Common Council of the City of Dublin.
Between 1874 and 1876, he traveled around the world: the Caribbean, United States, Japan, China, Southeast Asia, Arabian peninsula and Egypt.
1666 - 1733) who was apothecary to King George I and George II, and was apothecary general to the British army.
In 1719 he published a scurrilous ‘Examination’ of John Woodward's ‘State of Physick and Diseases.’ A reply, entitled ‘An Account of Dr.
In many, if not the majority of, cases clients received pharmaceutical drugs "without the benefit of medical authority".
1776: John Allen 1 December 1727 – 1738: Marmaduke Lilly 19 December 1738 – 11 April 1766: Benjamin Charlewood 16 January 1761 – bef.
Several days later he found that the styrol had thickened, presumably due to polymerisation, into a jelly which he dubbed styrol oxide ("Stryroloxyd").
In 1695 he published a catalogue, the first of many, of his collections as Musei Petiverani Centuria Prima Rariora Naturae Continens.
Works He knew little of clinical medicine, and was only skilful in the arrangement of drugs in prescriptions.
A new Black Guelph government was installed, and Cante dei Gabrielli da Gubbio was appointed podestà of the city.
Later, the company also started providing therapeutic drugs and chemicals such as acids, elixirs, tinctures, and essential oils.
William Clarke was married twice, first to Martha (last name is unknown) who bore him three children - Joseph, William and Anne.
He supported the idea of his teacher Franciscus Sylvius that all reactions involved acids and bases.
This initial letter opened a discussion on the types of assistance and intelligence that Arnold might provide and included instructions for how to communicate in the future.
The Company of Apothecaries also judged that she was sufficiently skilled to supervise her second husband's training as an apothecary after her remarriage.
Death and legacy Chase died without issue on 23 June 1721 leaving his estate to his widow and Dr Stephen Chase, the eldest son of his cousin, also Stephen Chase.
Allen is known to have lived as a girl with the family of Joel Barlow, the poet and diplomat, and a friend of Craigie.
The academy consisting of fifteen members would meet twice a week, Tuesdays for mathematics and Saturdays for physics.
In his will dated 15 March 1802, Sole mentions all of his siblings, with the exception of Elizabeth.
Tytler was overshadowed by Lunardi—the self-styled "Daredevil Aeronaut"—who carried out five sensational flights in Scotland, creating a ballooning fad and inspiring ladies' fashions in skirts and hats.
From 1838 until 1841 he ran a candle factory and became a member of the town council of Darmstadt in 1828.
Family Pryce married Miss Mitchell of Redruth, and left two sons, William Pryce and Samuel Vincent Pryce, both of whom became surgeons there.
Now preserved in the Stadtbibliothek Mainz (Hs III 101), it is organised in Linnaean classes I–XXIII, with each genus and species numbered consecutively.
Samuel Pryce of Redruth in Cornwall, and Catherine Hill; William Borlase was a great-uncle on his mother's side.
The others alchemists at Stirling were supervised by the Captain of the Castle Andrew Aytoun, and included Caldwell, Valentine McLellane, and the Italian John Damian, who is known for his attempt at flying, the subject of a poem by William Dunbar, The Fenyeit Freir of Tungland.
To comply with the regulations of the College of Physicians in London, he entered himself at Pembroke College, Cambridge, and kept some terms there, but took no degree.
(Issue in Canada and the Netherlands) Joseph was witness to the marriage of his son Charles James on 12 Aug 1828 The mothers of Fox's children are unknown.
The humpback whale heat run has been dubbed "the biggest battle on Earth", but the whales move so fast that underwater cameras struggle to keep up.
Gellert relied little on biblical wording, but drew from his own observations about the natural world.
The students and narrator communicate with Yendred by typing on the keyboard; Yendred's answers appear on the computer's printout.
The planet is overrun by monsters known as eaters, capable of eating other creatures and acquiring their abilities or characteristics.
Cast Reception A Matter of Faith was initially released to 25 movie theaters and its widest release was to 52 theaters.
In particular, the response of some of the right wing using it as justification for social Darwinism and laissez-faire economics (free-market capitalism).
The Transmode Virus can transmit via skin contact (though a Technarch can prevent transmission) and will transform a creature into a techno-organic creature within seconds.
Seventh Cross: Evolution, known in Japan as simply Seventh Cross (セブンスクロス, Sebunsu Kurosu), is a video game for the Sega Dreamcast video game console.
Reception of the game has been positive, with praise going to its unique gameplay and narrative mechanics, though its short length was faulted.
Emlyn, one of the trapped terrified miners, attacks him with a pickaxe and is flattened by a burst of kinetic force.
According to Cohen, Broder offered to sell Hal Wallis the film's negative for a substantial amount of money.
Beautiful Minds is a British documentary television programme, produced by BBC and broadcast on BBC Four.
Ideas of future evolution are also frequently explored in science fiction novels, such as in Kurt Vonnegut's 1985 science fiction novel Galápagos, which imagines the evolution of a small surviving group of humans into a sea lion-like species.
Gameplay Genetic Drift is a game in which the player changes hostile mutants into friendly life forms.
The twelfth chapter in Dawkins' book The Selfish Gene (added in the second edition, 1989) is also named Nice Guys Finish First and explores similar material.
Second Nature Illinois State University, University Galleries, Normal Illinois, August 17- September 29, 1995.
Plot summary In the far future (perhaps five to ten million years from now), humans and much of the world's fauna have gone extinct, and new creatures have evolved from the remaining species to take their places.
As an object style, steampunk adopts more distinct characteristics with various craftspersons modding modern-day devices into a pseudo-Victorian mechanical "steampunk" style.
The crew's encounters with the robotic dinosaurs and Amy's two-piece cavewoman outfit are parodies of the 1940 fantasy film, One Million B.C.
But if it is a gradualistic combination lock, with dials that can be opened individually, the odds are 1 in 18.
Mark Pellegrino as Jedikiah Price, Stephen's uncle, an evolutionary biologist and anti-telepath zealot who is head of Ultra.
Reception The iOS version received "unfavorable" reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.
In addition to their role as analogues for potential extraterrestrial life, extremophiles are also being investigated for their potential use in space biotechnology and in in-situ resource utilization (ISRU).
Songs "Shudder Before the Beautiful" opens with a quote by Richard Dawkins, and its lyrics include the "beauty of the world and everything it has to offer".
Likewise, Emma Stefansky of Thrillist said the alien creatures were fun, but "it's the Earth-bound science that ends up being the most interesting part".
Boulle was later made a chevalier of the Légion d'Honneur and decorated with the Croix de Guerre and the Médaille de la Résistance.
Galapagos DVD and Blu-ray sales in the USA were second only to Planet Earth and Blue Planet in BBC Worldwide Natural History sales for three years after its release.
Two of these pieces, "Great Hymn of Nature, Earth" and "Sorrow" were made available on the Orchestra Game Music Concert 2 album the following November.
Television Legion (2017–2019) Following the premiere of FX's Fargo in 2014, Noah Hawley deliberated ideas on an X-Men TV adaptation with FX producers.
References External links 2061: Odyssey Three title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database 2061: Odyssey Three at Open Library
Inaccuracy The sequence in which Bowman re-enters Discovery shows him holding his breath just before ejecting from the pod into the emergency airlock.
He reads parts of the book and begins to doubt the history that he has been told: apes have always been dominant, and humans have always been inferior and subservient.
The X-Mansion's address is 1407 Graymalkin Lane, Salem Center, located in Westchester County, New York.
Darkspore's multiplayer servers were shut down permanently on March 1, 2016, making it unplayable due to its always-on DRM.
For the safety of those operating the facilities, and to regroup all empowered members, Cyclops ordered the evacuation of all X-Corp offices and the organization appears to be dead.
After being absent throughout series four, the future predators made their last return in episode six (the finale) of series 5, which sees an incursion from mutated future predators from a future where the organization New Dawn has managed to reduce the Earth to a dying wasteland.
In 2021, Entertainment Weekly placed the episode fifth on their list of the top 25 The Simpsons episodes.
The IMAX film has been revealed to be Voyage of Time, a documentary expanding on the "history of the universe" scenes in The Tree of Life, which the producers decided to focus on releasing at a later date so as not to cannibalize its release.
Dawn of the Planet of the Apes is a 2014 American science fiction film directed by Matt Reeves and written by Mark Bomback, Rick Jaffa and Amanda Silver.
Is the interior experience of consciousness necessary, or is externally observed behavior the sole determining characteristic of conscious experience?
Eventually regaining spacefaring technology, humans studied the Forerunner artifacts with a more scientific approach, with both them and aliens discovering that the Forerunners granted humanity alone stewardship over the technology they had been left behind.
Disney showed interested in Fox's catalog of properties for its then-forthcoming streaming service, Disney+, and believed an acquisition could enhance its competitiveness in the industry.
In the 1895 novel In the original novel, the Time Traveler encounters Weena in the year 802,701 A.D.
In their attempt to find their way back to the surface and to their sphere, they come upon some Selenites carving up mooncalves but Bedford fight their way past.
Biologists have offered several explanations for the apparent absence of biological wheels, and wheeled creatures have appeared often in speculative fiction.
This station is located near the Altes Fährhaus, which was the building originally opened by Otto Zacharias as the Plön Biological Station in 1917, before the laboratory was moved to the location of the current Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Biology.
It was published in the April, May, and June 1888 issues of the Royal College of Science student magazine The Science Schools Journal.
Another descendant is the mountain dragon, which has four legs and fully-functional wings, and inhabits the Carpathian and Atlas mountains.
In an interview with Michel Ciment, Kubrick explained: However good our best film composers may be, they are not a Beethoven, a Mozart or a Brahms.
Synopsis Investigating the ramifications of a variety of potentially world-changing inventions, the series visits a cast of characters representing a typical American family in several different possible timelines.
When threatened, they can assemble into huge clouds, travel at a high speed, and even climb to the top of the troposphere.
The novel focuses on a crew of young scientists from a reality TV show who must try to survive when their research vessel, the Trident, lands on Henders Island, where predatory creatures have been living and evolving for over half a billion years.
About half the music in the film appears either before the first line of dialogue or after the final line.
In this episode, Homer becomes a celebrity photographer until they seek revenge by photographing him on his worst behavior.
The development and production of each film is discussed, including casting, costume design, filming locations and behind the scenes footage.
The first four phases of the game, if the player uses the editors only minimally, will take up to 15 hours to complete, but can take as little as one or two hours.
Its purpose is to provide support for "civilian" mutant populations on a global scale in a world where the mutant population was outgrowing the reach of the X-Men.
Once the aquarium has been created and viewed, there just isn't much else happening", with no simulation of an ecosystem needing ongoing maintenance as he had hoped.
Alpha Flight members are comic book characters in the Marvel Comics universe, featured mainly in the Alpha Flight series.
The story was itself similar to an earlier Star Trek/X-Men crossover comic, where a slightly different team of X-Men encountered the characters of the original Star Trek series.
See also Charles Darwin Foundation Galapagos National Park Lonesome George References External links Galápagos at BBC Online GalapagosTV: the video blog
The Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences nominated Seaman for the "Console Innovation" award during the 4th Annual Interactive Achievement Awards.
He details a variety of alien lifeforms such as "Gyrosprinters", "Arrowtongues", "Grovebacks", "Daggerwrists", "Skewers", "Emperor Sea Striders", and "Eosapiens".
Zira (Philippa Harris) – A female chimpanzee scientist who is very outspoken against the gorilla regime.
Wells in which the Morlocks of Wells' 1895 novella The Time Machine themselves use the device to travel back into the past and menace Victorian London.
These new dinosauroids are more inspired by birds and their tool use capability, with some inspiration from early hunter-gatherer societies as well.
The Long Earth is the first novel in a collaborative science fiction series by British authors Terry Pratchett and Stephen Baxter.
It explores the story behind the discovery of an early primate fossil, Darwinius masillae, nicknamed Ida, in a shale quarry in Germany.
Utilizing a frame story set in then-present Victorian England, Wells's text focuses on a recount of the otherwise anonymous Time Traveller's journey into the far future.
However, ABC executives would only allow him to regress to the stages of early man, due to concerns that religious viewers who did not accept the theory of evolution would be offended.
The robotic "fauna", dubbed "necrosphere", has become part of the planet's ecology, and would require a disruption on a planetary scale to be destroyed.
Emily Lonartae (voiced by Miranda Jones) is a motherly animal lover who tries to see the best qualities in both animals and people.
Human Planet was originally screened in the UK on BBC One each Thursday at 8pm over eight weeks, starting from 13 January 2011.
Troodontids had semi-manipulative fingers, able to grasp and hold objects to a certain degree, and binocular vision.
Development Sparkle 2 Evo was developed by Madman Theory Games in collaboration with Plastic Games and published by Polish video game development studio Forever Entertainment on November 29, 2011, for Microsoft Windows, macOS, and Linux.
Freezing point depression Protein-mediated Prevention of crystal formation RNA Thermometers Membrane porosity Mutations Artificial applications Food preservation Mankind has long taken advantage of the natural thermobiological properties of bacterial and mold in food preservation.
Very late in the expedition, the explorer encounters lifeforms which use tools (the Eosapiens), giving a very strong indication they are intelligent.
Clarke has referred to it as "the alien Swiss Army Knife"; or as Heywood Floyd speculates in the 1984 film 2010, "an emissary for an intelligence beyond ours.
Powers and abilities The Bamfs possess similar abilities to Nightcrawler, including the ability to teleport.
Douglas Black: founder of the Black Corporation, a high-profile research based weapons and technology company and manufacturer.
The percussion base was borrowed from Goldsmith's original motifs and he further used oil drums with the notion of the oil drum existing in the fictional kingdom.
The previous 50 experimental robots went mad as they achieved sentience and became psychotic due to a lack of identity.
To conclude the lecture, Dawkins claims that there is nothing wrong with having faith in a proper scientific prediction.
The new series focused on the evolution of the earliest fish, reptiles, amphibians and mammals, and aired on the BBC in 2013, as David Attenborough's Rise of Animals: Triumph of the Vertebrates.
It is based on the 1968 film of the same name and its sequels, which were, in turn, based on the 1963 novel Planet of the Apes by Pierre Boulle.
Rubbermaid Rubbermaid (Andrea Margulies) possessed an elastic and malleable body that allowed her to stretch any part of her anatomy to great lengths and absorb physical damage without injury.
Human mutants are sometimes referred to as a human subspecies Homo sapiens superior or simply Homo superior.
This type of programming receives particular criticism when, as in the original broadcast of Mermaids: The Body Found, there are only a few, easily missed disclaimers to indicate the speculative nature of the programming.
Every three levels is followed by the creature editor, in which the player may add an upgrade to their organism in four categories: perception, attack, defense, and movement.
These designs for a dinosauroid were based on Darren Naish's writings on Russell and Seguin's original.
The BBC also later disclosed that a scene from the "Deserts" episode, which supposedly showed a wild wolf being shot at by Mongolian herders, actually showed a semi-domesticated wolf running to its handler, who was kept out of frame.
Known omega-level mutants Inconsistency Many characters were previously termed as Omega-level mutants or having omega-level abilities: Betsy Braddock, Cable, Rachel Summers, and White Queen were excluded from being Omega-level mutants despite being the members of Krakoan Age.
In March 2009, visual effects artist Mike Fink revealed to Empire magazine that he was working on scenes of prehistoric Earth for the film.
The Morlock scenes were shot in Park City, Utah - in at least the Silver King Mine - and around other mines.
Subsequently, television rights for the first three Planet of the Apes movies were sold to CBS and broadcast successfully during September 1973.
Walking with Dinosaurs is an augmented reality game developed by Supermassive Games in collaboration with the BBC.
"Allan and the Sundered Veil" is a six-part horror comic story written in the style of a boy's periodical by Alan Moore and illustrated by Kevin O'Neill, included at the back of each issue of The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, Volume One and collected at the back of that volume.
Most slimes also have a "Gordo" version of themselves, which can be found in various hidden areas across the Far Far Range.
When an ape is sleeping, players can unlock new abilities by developing the hominid's neural system, which functions as a skill tree.
The first in-story mention of mutants in this context is in The X-Men #1, in which Xavier explains his school to the newly admitted Jean Grey: "You, Miss Grey, like the other students at this most exclusive school, are a mutant!
DVD, Blu-ray and book The series is available in the UK for Regions 2 and 4 as a four-disc DVD set (BBCDVD1233, released 1 September 2003) and as part of The Life Collection.
But Stevenson targets her next, and Wells rescues her and incapacitates Stevenson in a dramatic climax.
Silvestri added that the challenge was in syncing his work process, where everyone had worked passionately in this film.
The timetree was created using animated computer-generated imagery in scenes every 10 minutes during the 2-hour movie.
(1964) Television Topper Returns (1973) (TV) (executive producer) References Literature Hall, Sheldon; Neale, Stephen (2010).
Captain Underpants and the Revolting Revenge of the Radioactive Robo-Boxers is the tenth book in the Captain Underpants series created by Dav Pilkey.
The final version of Man After Man, published as a book in 1990, was instead focused on future climate change through the eyes of future human descendants genetically engineered to adapt to it and was a project Dixon was reluctant to be involved in.
The Blue Moon orbits a Water Cloud Jovian planet (a Jupiter-like planet that is cool enough to have visible rain clouds in its atmosphere) orbiting a close binary star system.
Honk: A small, pink, tapir-like Flanimal that sleeps all day until it randomly wakes up to make a loud honking sound from its nose and then goes back to sleep.
The film describes the 2013 discovery, and later excavation, of the fossil remains of Homo naledi, an extinct species of hominin assigned to the genus Homo, found within the Dinaledi Chamber of the Rising Star Cave system, located in the Cradle of Humankind, South Africa.
Instead the institute responded by creating a website, Hoax of Dodos, characterizing the documentary as "revisionist history," and a "hoax" filled with inaccuracies and misrepresentations.
Originally, Hyams had intended to film the opening scene at the Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico, which at the time housed the world's largest radio telescope, but after visiting there in 1983, he told Clarke that the site was unsuitable for filming.
Radio The tune was played as the lead-in to Aunt Daisy's radio broadcasts in New Zealand, which ran from 1930 until her death in 1963.
Reminding Holopainen of Once and Oceanborn, it features the first duel between him and guitarist Emppu Vuorinen in about 15 years.
A "reverse evolution" form is also available, granting the game's most powerful abilities, such as invincibility and shooting mini versions of itself, with the cost of a tighter time limit.
Reception Nunzio DeFilippis and Christina Weir had stated that it was possible that Alpha Squadron had more queer members than other squads.
The use of Strauss's Zarathustra may be a reference to the theme of mankind's eventual replacement by superior men (Übermenschen, not Untermenschen, the inferior men), in Nietzsche's book Thus Spoke Zarathustra.
In the 2002 film Another movie with the same name was produced by Arnold Leibovit and directed by Simon Wells in 2002.
This allowed to access computer files and manipulate programming to suit her needs among other things.
The three historians featured in the film subsequently issued a statement that they had been misrepresented by the film company's selective reconstruction of Darwin's voyage.
The program includes interviews with many of the researchers involved in these studies, such as geneticists Svante Pääbo and Eske Willerslev and anthropologists John D.
Kris Hirst, Dawn of Humanity provides "a rich context for the discovery [of the fossils of Homo naledi], setting the historical and evolutionary background so that viewers can understand the significance of the discovery....
Chikkun Kingdom) is an action video game that was released by Hudson Soft for Game Boy on April 22, 1994 in Japan.
Climate phase The first player rolls dice of three colors to determine the amount of food, parasites and shelters that will be available in the next phase.
The film then presented as experts several people without identifying them as creationists and intelligent design advocates.
In the Futurama episode "Love and Rocket" (2002), Bender sings "Daisy Bell" to the Planet Express Ship when he falls in love with it.
The game provides various challenges to players that, if completed successfully, reward them with items to further help their species.
Though they were maintained to have been bat descendants throughout Primeval, the design of the future predators, particularly their body plan also strongly evokes primates.
A superior 30-minute album could be condensed from the long commercial product, one complete with the usual idiotic track titles and hidden cue at the end.
The Young Earth creationist and Christian apologetics organization Answers in Genesis (AiG) promoted the film.
James Collier was president of the company in the late 1970s, and his office was used as Haverson's office.
Instead of simply having various types of projectile weaponry, the game attempts to make these new abilities as varied as possible.
Online video game magazine switchplayer.net gave the game 2.5 out of 5 stars, and wrote: "[The game] is a kind of contemplative experience that puts you in control of an ever-evolving creature.
The perception that the satellites are nuclear weapons persists in the minds of some viewers (and some space scientists).
Because the film had never received very wide distribution in its day, few contemporary viewers had seen it; Bela Lugosi Meets a Brooklyn Gorilla has since been included in many Lugosi and comedy collections, sometimes under its reissue title, The Boys from Brooklyn.
Reitman had worked with David Duchovny on Beethoven (1992), where he had a small role, and envisioned him as the lead for Evolution, recognizing his ability to handle comedy.
If the player's dragon dies during a battle it will be lost permanently, however if its DNA cell it was last in is empty it might still have the DNA remnants in it and there is a chance it can be re-synthesized to the last point it was in the cell, but it loses the weapons it had.
Consonant with Clarke's passing mention of polyominoes, a game involving pentominoes was shot and considered for use in the film, but ultimately passed over in favor of the chess game, which Kubrick felt would be more familiar to audiences.
After falling into water and shedding, the young Parachute Worms feed on the nutritious roots of the Sulfurian Balloon Plants.
Some changes are only cosmetic and leave the creature in the same species; others can, for instance, make the initial insect a new species with wings and capable of flight.
They are attacked by albino creatures known as both Morlocks (from The Time Machine) and Mi-Go (from the Cthulhu Mythos).
In most regions of the game world, eggs won from these battles will only produce a bird of a particular plumage, depending on what zone the battle was fought in (i.e.
Abrams' Star Trek reboot." Movie Music Mania wrote "Michael Giacchino's score bears little resemblance to that of its predecessor, but the film itself is such a departure from Rise of the Planet of the Apes that this change seems warranted.
This was due to the need to keep the whole ship in focus for the shots, something which could not be done on smaller or tabletop models.
Almost paradoxically, 2010 may be unnecessary, but it is nevertheless a worthwhile effort." He wrote that the visual effects "are as good as, although not noticeably better than, those used in 2001".
The game plays similarly to Angry Birds Epic, also developed by Chimera Entertainment, with the exception that a player is slinging birds toward the enemies to defeat them instead of using weapons.
He would also wear suits with tailed jackets and ruffled shirts (most notably cream-coloured or reddish-pink).
Instead of collecting gun upgrades as in most games of this genre, the player's eater enhances itself by eating other creatures and assuming their abilities and defenses.
See also Devolution – Notion that species can revert to primitive forms Dysgenics – Decrease in genetic traits deemed desirable References Moore, Lorrie (October 6, 1985).
Having had no time for food or sleep, Irwin eventually circles back to his camp and sets a trap with dynamite.
The series was nominated for its photography and editing at the BAFTA Craft Awards earlier the same year.
It was nominated for four BAFTA TV awards and won the Broadcasting Press Guild Award for Best Documentary Series.
They are only addressed as "man" and from the few scenes where they show any visibility, they vaguely resemble modern humans.
Mistaking the Ruum for an item of human technology they take it aboard, intending to present it to their Queen as an amusing novelty.
To fix the issue, Yoot Saito changed the phrasing to say, "You talk too long, I don't understand" in order to inform players they need to use shorter and simpler sentences to interact with the Seaman creature.
The next day, the crew wakes up to find both Leela and Amy kidnapped by caveman-like robots, but the following day, they find that Leela and Amy are free, because the robot cavemen have since evolved into a completely civilized, modern robot society.
The second stanza begins "Mein Auge sieht, wohin es blickt, die Wunder deiner Werke" (My eye sees wherever it looks the miracles of Your works), with the following stanzas naming examples, concluding with man as body and mind ("Leib und Geist").
See also Nanomedicine - Medical application of nanotechnology Nanobiotechnology - Intersection of nanotechnology and biology References External links The Techno-Organic FAQ by Soleil Lapierre
Broadcast The series aired on Discovery Kids and premiered in the United States on October 13, 2007.
The novelette was also recognized as the 13th best all-time short science fiction story in a 1971 Analog Science Fact & Fiction poll (tied with Cyril M.
It was first broadcast as part of the BBC's Darwin Season on BBC One and BBC HD from October to December 2009 and was written and narrated by David Attenborough.
It was released under the Back Lot Music label on November 12, 2020 as the lead single from the album.
The book is divided into several shorter chapters, each telling a short story and featuring illustrations of the local animals and their interactions and relations to humans.
overthrow Hydra and place the nation in the hands of Tyger Tiger, as she was the only person—apart from the long-absent Patch—who the natives would follow in the event of a revolt.
Also included is the original 1948 short story "The Sentinel", the cornerstone of the film's script.
Stanton said Muren's experience came from integrating computer animation into live-action settings, while Deakins helped them understand not to overly complicate their camerawork and lighting.
Unlike the full version of Spore, the main game is roughly an hour long, and divided into 18 separate sections, or 30 sections in the iPhone and iPod touch version, with the player attacking and eating other organisms while avoiding being eaten by superior ones.
In Lambourne's opinion hard science fiction authors like Clement, Forward and their successors have been relatively few but have strongly influenced both the genre's evolution and the public's perception of the genre.
The film stars David Duchovny, Orlando Jones, Seann William Scott, Julianne Moore, and Ted Levine in lead roles.
Ike's route takes him over perilous terrain, including the planet’s only sea, and find the entire aforementioned sea is Amoebic in nature (and attempts to attack him), making it a source of food to giant Sea Striders.
Another difference from typical shooter mechanics is that the player's eater does not die after being hit.
Blumberg identified the Hepatitis B virus, and later developed the diagnostic test and vaccine for it.
In a career already littered with gems, War For the Planet of the Apes is further proof Giacchino might well now be the finest composer working in Hollywood today.
Victor Millson: Floyd's bureaucratic successor, rival and contact for official Earth/American business.
Dug discovers that although his ancestors played football, the other members of his tribe are too dim to understand it.
Second Officer Walter Chang: Not to be confused with the Tsien astronaut, Walter Chang is the Galaxy pilot on duty when Rosie hijacks the ship and is charged by Rosie with landing on Europa.
Bastion and the Leper Queen infect Beautiful Dreamer and Fever Pitch with the virus, causing them to go berserk and kill themselves and thousands of civilians during an anti-mutant rally.
Reception In Japan, Game Machine listed Darwin 4078 on their April 15, 1986 issue as being the third most-successful table arcade unit of the month.
After that, Crackers and Sulu decide to save the entire galaxy by sending Slightly Younger Tiny Tippy and themselves back to the time before the universe existed (13.7 billion years ago).
Overview In the opening scene, Richard Dawkins responds very precisely to what he views as a misrepresentation of his first book, The Selfish Gene.
The theory of evolution by natural selection is now orthodoxy, but when it was unveiled it caused a storm of controversy, from fellow scientists as well as religious people.
Rubbermaid and Network died after being attacked by William Stryker, while Kidogo's status and whereabouts are unknown.
Warren Ellis and Stuart Immonen's Nextwave series sees Machine Man join a team formed by the Highest Anti-Terrorism Effort, or H.A.T.E.
Gameplay The game starts off with the player choosing story mode, a quick how-to tutorial or sandbox mode, where the player chooses their animals and terrain for their tribes and environment and a short cut-scene of a tribe of nichelings living on an island.
Extraterrestrial mutants Ariel Broo Cerise Deathbird Longshot Thanos Ultra Girl Warlock Non-human Earth mutants Crosta Devil Dinosaur Don the Lobster Moon-Boy Val-Or Other mutations Children of the Vault: A species of super-powered beings created from a temporally accelerated cargo ship.
This focus is communicated through an exploration of views of dinosaurs and related animals that are unusual and sometimes even confusing to viewers, but which are well within the bounds of behaviour, anatomy and soft tissue that we see in living animals.
Other versions A prison inspired by Guantánamo Bay called "Genosha Bay" appears in the Marvel Noir story X-Men Noir: Mark of Cain #1.
A softcore pornographic film, it is a parody of the Planet of the Apes media franchise films and was released seven months after the Tim Burton-directed 2001 remake of the first film.
Global warming can cause the planet's ice caps to melt and sea levels to rise, but if a planet gets very hot, the oceans boil away until there are none left, only land.
This organization was created to ensure the protection of mutant rights throughout the world due to the increasing number of mutants and widespread bigotry and hate crimes against them.
In 1999 viewers of Channel 4 voting for the 100 Greatest TV Moments placed the gorilla sequence at number 12—ranking it ahead of Queen Elizabeth II's coronation and the wedding of Charles and Diana.
Cornholeous Anoushka as Lieutenant Pushkintucushkin Sharon Engert as Lieutenant Fornication Shelby Taylor as Barbarian Queen Dan Schwab as Ape With Pink Fur Zachary W.
Sounds can be added to the game in the same manner, although new sound files cannot be added to the game.
The study of plate tectonics: Scientists are investigating the role of plate tectonics in creating a diverse range of environments on the early Earth.
Development The game was developed by Panache Digital Games, a studio opened in 2014 by game director Patrice Désilets after he left Ubisoft.
John Carter sees a vision of him fighting a Green Martian and winning Dejah Thoris as she rides a Greater Thoat mount (from the Barsoom novels).
It stars Andy Serkis, Jason Clarke, Gary Oldman, Keri Russell, Toby Kebbell, Kodi Smit-McPhee, and Kirk Acevedo.
More modern techniques include aseptic processing, pasteurization, vacuum packing, freeze drying, preservatives, irradiation, electroporation, modified atmosphere, nonthermal plasma, high-pressure food preservation, and biopreservation.
Production The Doubleclicks sought funding for the album via the crowd-funding site Kickstarter, asking for $18,000.
It's well composed, intelligently designed, has recurring themes and motifs, and some moments of real power and beauty.
Occurrence The giant California sea cucumber (Parastichopus californicus) will often eviscerate due to rough handling, temperature shock, or other stressful treatments.
Pirate perch (Aphredoderus sayanus) may exhibit chemical crypsis, making them undetectable to frogs and insects colonizing ponds.
Urticating hairs or urticating bristles are one of the primary defense mechanisms used by numerous plants, almost all New World tarantulas, and various lepidopteran caterpillars.
Description Adult males are typically 3.7–5.5 cm (1.5–2.2 in) long and females typically 4.7–6.9 cm (1.9–2.7 in).
The drab stinkbug (or saw-toothed stinkbug), Megymenum gracilicorne, is an insect in the family Dinidoridae.
Natural defenses The puffer's unique and distinctive natural defenses help compensate for its slow locomotion.
The endophallus and cornua portions of the genitalia of male honey bees (drones) also autotomize during copulation, and form a mating plug, which must be removed by the genitalia of subsequent drones if they are also to mate with the same queen.
Transparency Transparency is common, even dominant, in animals of the open sea, especially those that live in relatively shallow waters.
The characteristics of this tonic immobility vary as a function of the duration and condition of captivity.
The notably missing bone and fin features are due to the pufferfish' specialized defense mechanism, expanding by sucking in water through an oral cavity.
Six years later, he exhibited another comparable painting that, viewed with the unaided eye, depicted the famous transatlantic flight of Charles Lindbergh, but when viewed through an optical instrument that Bittinger had invented, appeared instead to be the Mona Lisa.
They are called periodical because nearly all individuals in a local population are developmentally synchronized and emerge in the same year.
To reduce light production, the squid can change the shape of its iris; it can also adjust the strength of yellow filters on its underside, which presumably change the balance of wavelengths emitted.
Scorpions perform non-bluffing threat displays, as they have powerful defences, but various predators still eat them.
Some polyphenisms are seasonal, as in some butterflies which have different patterns during the year, and some Arctic animals like the snowshoe hare and Arctic fox, which are white in winter.
They are rich in lipids, proteins and carbohydrates, and are sought after by various arthropods, that carry out vigorous protection of the plant against herbivores, thus functioning as a biotic defence.
However, both types of organisms share the possession of photosynthetic pigments, which absorb and release energy that is later used by the cell.
This means that even if the trait causes males to die earlier, the trait is still beneficial so long as males with the trait produce more offspring than males lacking the trait.
1,342,247 [June 1, 1920]: Combining Reflected and Transmitted Light Waves of Varying Lengths to Produce Subjective Changes in Scenic Effects.
The cleaner wrasse, shown in the image cleaning a grouper of the genus Epinephelus, resides in coral reefs in the Indian and the Pacific Oceans, and is recognised by other fishes who allow it to clean them.
The ink and opaline are highly concentrated with free amino acids and ammonium; they are responsible for the response of the predators since predators have receptive sites for them.
However, once they return to freshwater, they quickly take on the normal coloration of resident brown trout in preparation for spawning.
In popular culture Evisceration plays a role in the Theodore Sturgeon short story "The Girl Had Guts" (Venture Science Fiction, January 1957; also appears in his collection "A Touch of Strange").
Intensity of display has been shown to decrease as the distance of the predator from the nest increases, perhaps representing the balancing of risk to the displaying parent and to the vulnerable young.
This system is less subject to influence by environmental conditions, yet prevents unnecessary production of queens.
Exposure to glochidia is an occupational hazard to fruit pickers and other outside workers in areas where Opuntioideae thrive, as the spines can persist in clothing and gloves and can become airborne under the right conditions.
Among animals, self-decoration is found in decorator crabs, some insects such as caddis flies and the masked hunter bug, and occasionally also in octopuses.
Some animals change color in changing environments seasonally, as in ermine and snowshoe hare, or far more rapidly with chromatophores in their integuments, as in chameleon and cephalopods such as squid.
The spotted skunk (Spilogale putorius) balances on its front legs, its body raised vertically with its bold pelage pattern conspicuously displayed, and its tail (near the scent glands) raised and spread out.
Where the background is brighter than is possible even with white pigment, counter-illumination in marine animals, such as squid, can use light to match the background.
Diurnal animals, including humans (except for night owls), squirrels and songbirds, are active during the daytime.
Two squamate species from the Jurassic period, Eichstaettisaurus schroederi and Ardeosaurus digitatellus, were identified as having intervertebral autotomy planes, and these species were placed in the squamate taxonomy as being an ancestor of current existing geckos.
Old workers of Neocapritermes taracua develop blue spots on their abdomens that are filled with copper-containing proteins (blue laccase).
A single genus, Aglaope is disjunctly distributed from the remainder of the subfamily, being found in the Iberian Peninsula and southern France.
Conversely, some species at a lower risk from cane toads, such as the marsh snake and the keelback snake, show no significant variation in body proportions over time.
Angling with natural lures (worms, maggots, grasshoppers) is discouraged in most rivers because it is difficult to throw back trout that are below the minimum landing size uninjured when they have ingested this food so quickly and deeply.
Because 501-T3 stops firing just before the evasive response starts, it may be involved in triggering the behavior.
A second hypothesis for signal honesty is that there may be frequency-dependent advantages to automimicry.
Each of the top and bottom arches is fused together with a visible midsagittal demarcation, which are used to break apart and consume small crustaceans.
It has been shown to be somewhat successful at defeating face detection software in common use, including that employed by Facebook.
If so, then automimics may simply be unlucky enough not to have gathered enough toxins from their environment.
Mimicry A large majority of Chalcosiine moths engage in mimicry complexes with a large variety of butterflies and moths.
They become toxic when herbivores eat the plant and break cell membranes allowing the glycosides to come into contact with enzymes in the cytoplasm releasing hydrogen cyanide which blocks cellular respiration.
On May 9, 1715, Andreas Sandel, the pastor of Philadelphia's "Gloria Dei" Swedish Lutheran Church, described in his journal an emergence of Brood X.
The introduction of new herbicides and pesticides only selects for insects that can ultimately avoid or utilize these chemicals over time.
De Scévola was a member of the Société des Pastellistes Français and the Comité de la Société des Beaux-Arts de Paris.
The ink and opaline has been demonstrated to stimulate appetitive and ingestive behaviours, though opaline differs in the sense in that it inhibits ingestion.
Darwin explained such male-female differences in his theory of sexual selection in his book The Descent of Man.
SSLPs are repeated sequences over varying base lengths in intergenic regions of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).
Trained dogs and meerkats, both scent-oriented predators, have been shown to have difficulty detecting puff adders, whose strategy of ambushing prey necessitates concealment from both predators and prey.
However, when the predator is absent, Daphnia have smaller heads and are therefore more agile swimmers.
The pied raven (Corvus corax varius morpha leucophaeus) is an extinct colour morph of the North Atlantic subspecies of the common raven that was only found on the Faroe Islands.
Further research from 2016, in which genomes from each of the Darwin's finch species were sequenced, established that a single nucleotide polymorphism in the high mobility AT-hook 2 gene (HMGA2) locus is significantly associated with variation in beak size (Lamichhaney et al.
The pied raven had large areas of white feathering, most frequently on the head, the wings and the belly, and its beak was light brown.
External links Feeding behavior of the frogfishes (Antennariidae) Description, images and video of aggressive mimicry in frogfish Acoustic aggressive mimicry of cicadas by an Australian predatory katydid
He resumed his camouflage research in World War II, in the course of which he worked with Everett L.
Extinction As exemplified by Skarvanesi's painting, which obviously was done from stuffed birds, the pied raven was an object of interest to collectors.
The missile guidance strategy of pure proportional navigation guidance (PPNG) closely resembles the CATD strategy used by bats.
The cricket will steer itself away from the source of the sound within a very short time frame (40–80 ms).
Thayer, 1909) Adaptive Coloration in Animals (Hugh Cott, 1940) Notes References Primary Secondary Bibliography Poulton, Edward Bagnall, Sir (1890).
This could be confusing, since the orange, used in the racecourse obstacles, could be blending with grass.
A biometric study of 36 skulls found sexual dimorphism was exhibited in the crest of 3 species of hadrosaurids.
Other well-studied examples include the cookiecutter shark (Isistius brasiliensis), the marine hatchetfish, and the Hawaiian bobtail squid.
The terms genotype and phenotype are distinct for at least two reasons: To distinguish the source of an observer's knowledge (one can know about genotype by observing DNA; one can know about phenotype by observing outward appearance of an organism).
In recent times, Trinidad and Tobago officials have taken a more relaxed approach towards the matter though importation of any camouflage patterned items remains illegal.
The evisceration process in Eupentacta quinquesemita proceeds as follows: Three main structures weaken over a period of about 1–3 minutes, become soft and transparent, and eventually separate from their attachments.
miliaris pseudopunctatus Kevan, 1974 - Pakistan Habits It swarms in October, the mating and egg-laying season, collecting on bushes and grasses.
Some ophidiasterids possess remarkable powers of regeneration, enabling them to either reproduce asexually or to survive serious damage made by predators or forces of nature (an example for this is the genus Linckia).
This was intended to confuse the enemy about the aircraft's attitude and likely direction of travel.
Water striders are insects that live on the surface of fresh water, and are attacked from beneath by predatory fish.
Mobbing may function by reducing the predator's ability to locate nests (as a distraction) since predators cannot focus on locating eggs while they are under attack.
Defense mechanisms Predation is one of the strongest forces natural selection uses to drive the evolution of an organism's morphology, physiology, and behavior.
miliaris lays eggs in the soil which aerates the soil promoting biodiversity and creates ecosystem value.
The adults of butterflies and moths (order Lepidoptera), for example, do not feed on plants directly, but lay eggs on plants which are suitable food for their larva.
He was a generous benefactor to Jesus College, providing silver for the high table and redecorating the Old Bursary amongst other donations.
This is not for camouflage but for the efficiency of the resulting path, so the strategy is generally called constant absolute target direction (CATD); it is equivalent to CBDR but allowing for the target to manoeuvre erratically.
Growth-differentiation balance hypothesis The growth-differentiation balance hypothesis states that plant defenses are a result of a tradeoff between "growth-related processes" and "differentiation-related processes" in different environments.
A polyphenic trait is a trait for which multiple, discrete phenotypes can arise from a single genotype as a result of differing environmental conditions.
More than one signal may be shared: snakes can make use of both auditory signals and warning coloration.
Use by humans Cephalopod ink has, as its name suggests, been used in the past as ink for pens and quills; the Greek name for cuttlefish, and the taxonomic name of a cuttlefish genus, Sepia, is associated with the brown colour of cuttlefish ink (for more information, see sepia).
Not all individuals with the same genotype look or act the same way because appearance and behavior are modified by environmental and growing conditions.
Plot summary Technical Fairy, First Class gives the troops "A Lecture On Camouflage" with the aid of Private Snafu.
The adults of the various species now resemble each other so well that the species cannot be distinguished without close morphological observation and, in some cases, dissection or genetic analysis.
In Müllerian mimicry, inedible species, usually within a taxonomic order, find it advantageous to resemble each other so as to reduce the sampling rate by predators who need to learn about the insects' inedibility.
In 2009, a research team demonstrated the feasibility of identifying genotype–phenotype associations using electronic health records (EHRs) linked to DNA biobanks.
Some mimetic populations have evolved multiple forms (polymorphism), enabling them to mimic several different models and thereby to gain greater protection.
Motion camouflage is camouflage which provides a degree of concealment for a moving object, given that motion makes objects easy to detect however well their coloration matches their background or breaks up their outlines.
The cloud of small bristles can get into the mucous membrane of small mammals and cause edema, which can be fatal.
This variation in Asn and Gln alleles has been related to individuals having a reduced DNA repair efficiency.
Holothuria arenicola is described as a sea cucumber suitable for keeping in aquaria as it does not eviscerate, whereas the "Australian" sea apple (Paracucumaria tricolor) frequently eviscerates.
Negative frequency-dependent selection There is a negative correlation between the frequency of mimics and the "survivability" of both species involved.
In the case of sea hares, the ink produced deceives their predators to attack their ink instead of pursuing the sea hare.
Poulton's son, Ronald Poulton-Palmer played international rugby for England and was killed in May 1915 in World War I.
Scientists are exploring ways to train populations to identify and respond to predators before releasing them into the wild.
Researchers propose that communication evolved as natural selection diversified 'hoo' vocalizations into context-dependent 'hoos' for travel, rest, and threats.
This is thought to be one of the most effective forms of defense that termites possess as the ruptured workers block the tunnels running into the nest and it causes a one-to-one exchange between attackers and defenders, meaning attacks have a high energy cost to predators.
Modes of induced defence include systemic acquired resistance and plant-induced systemic resistance.
One hypothesis is that the display arose from a courtship behavior in which the male normally "points" an approaching female towards his nest so that she may lay her eggs within it.
Aphid galls in narrow leaf cottonwood (Populus angustifolia) act as “physiologic sinks,” concentrating resources in the gall from the surrounding plant parts.
Aularches miliaris is a grasshopper species of the monotypic genus Aularches, belonging to the family Pyrgomorphidae.
Life cycle Male mutillids fly in search of females; after mating, the female enters a host insect nest, typically a ground-nesting bee or wasp burrow, and deposits one egg near each larva or pupa.
The genus Cercopion from the Aptian aged Crato Formation of Brazil appears to be derived from the Procerocopidae and closely related to the crown group.
The salamander's tissues contain cells that differentiate slowly, weakly, or not at all, due to intron delay.
Camouflage Snow camouflage In his 1889 book Darwinism, the naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace considered the white coloration of Arctic animals.
This self-sacrifice is most useful against arthropods because the sticky adhesives in the products work best against the bodies of other arthropods.
Thayer, he made contributions to military camouflage, as did his wife, aviator and artist Mary (called Mittie) Taylor (Whelpley) Brush, and their son, the sculptor Gerome Brush.
In species such as Hipparchia semele, the conspicuous eyespots are hidden at rest to decrease detectability, and only exposed when they believe potential predators are nearby.
For example, fungal symbionts of cigarette beetles (Lasioderma serricorne) use certain plant allelochemicals as their source of carbon, in addition to producing detoxification enzymes (esterases) to get rid of other toxins.
In April 1800, Benjamin Banneker, who lived near Ellicott's Mills, Maryland, wrote in his record book that he recalled a "great locust year" in 1749, a second in 1766 during which the insects appeared to be "full as numerous as the first", and a third in 1783.
In addition, many species of lizards, such as Plestiodon fasciatus, Cordylosaurus subtessellatus, Holaspis guentheri, Phelsuma barbouri, and Ameiva wetmorei, have elaborately colored blue tails which have been shown to divert predatory attacks toward the tail and away from the body and head.
Not all amphibians which display unkenreflexes possess aposematic coloring, nor do all amphibians display unkenreflex to the same degree.
By contrast, a leaf-mimicking plant, the chameleon vine, employs Batesian mimicry by adapting its leaf shape and colour to match that of its host to deter herbivores from eating its edible leaves.
The members of Phyllodesmium will drop a large number of their cerata each, on the tip having a large sticky gland that secretes a sticky substance.
Some dogs will refuse food from some unknown person after the death of their owner, a behavior that might lead to disease or death in severe cases.
Counter-illumination goes further than countershading, actually brightening the underside of the body.
As a result, animals have certain environmental and social cues that they can use to decide when is the most beneficial time to show such behaviours; they use these triggers to minimize cost (predator avoidance) and maximize gain (mate attraction).
Consequently, animals with higher reproductive rates and shorter lifespans are more likely to quickly adapt to cane toads through evolutionary selection.
As they describe, the nomenclature for this subfamily is currently unstable and is subject to further revision.
Some anglerfish of the deep sea, where it is too dark to hunt by sight, contain symbiotic bacteria in the 'bait' on their 'fishing rods'.
False head Many insects have filamentous "tails" at the ends of their wings and patterns of markings on the wings themselves.
However, as food supply begins to overwhelm the predator's ability to consume and process it, consumption levels off.
However, monarchs raised on their natural host plant, milkweed, were noxious to jays - in fact, jays that ingested them vomited.
Thus an airplane could fly unscathed over the German lines and return home again without being fired upon” (Literary Digest 1921).
Defence of Darwinism Edward Bagnall Poulton's 1890 book, The Colours of Animals, renamed Wallace's concept of warning colours "aposematic" coloration, as well as supporting Darwin's then unpopular theories of natural selection and sexual selection.
His research lies within the scope of sensory ecology, covering sensory systems, especially vision, and the evolutionary adaptations dealing with colour changing abilities.
When the butterfly is resting on a flower the wings are closed and the hind wings are kept in constant motion ...
The majority of polymorphisms are silent, meaning they do not alter the function or expression of a gene.
Some animals are named for their tendency to use gaping as a threat display, or for the features that become apparent when making such a display.
There was no clear difference in the sounds made by the different species measured: Crotalus horridus, Crotalus adamanteus, Crotalus atrox, Crotalus cerastes, Crotalus viridis and Sistrurus catenatus.
In 2020, the law was challenged by a man arrested for importing camouflage baby clothes on the grounds that the Legal Notice violated the Constitution of Trinidad and Tobago due to not going through Parliament.
They can survive on a completely vegetarian diet if their environment is lacking resources, but prefer an omnivorous food selection.
For example, the arachnid family Salticidae consists of jumping spiders with keen vision which results in very clear display behaviours for courting in particular.
See also Animal suicide Anti-predator adaptation Apoptosis Autohaemorrhaging Exploding animal Self-destruct == References ==
Active camouflage, adaptive camouflage, or chameleonizing is camouflage that adapts, often rapidly, to the surroundings of an object such as an animal or military vehicle.
For example (in reptiles), the coral snakes (family Elapidae) are well-known as venomous, while the non-venomous milk snakes (Colubridae) appear visually very similar, utilizing mimicry to their advantage.
The spotted salamander (Amblystoma maculatum) lives in a symbiotic relationship with a green algae known as Oophila amblystomatis.
Examples include: Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) are a single nucleotide changes that happen in the genome in a particular location.
Stevens has published hundreds of journal papers, including Animal camouflage: current issues and new perspectives,, Using digital photography to study animal coloration, Disruptive coloration and background pattern matching.
These genes are the transcription factor Distalless (Dll) and the ligand (a signalling substance that binds a cell surface receptor) Hedgehog (Hh).
Evisceration is a method of autotomy involving the ejection of internal organs used by animals as a defensive strategy.
Blest demonstrated that the more an eyespot resembled a real vertebrate eye in both colour and pattern, the more effective it was in scaring off insectivorous birds.
These studies examined the XPD gene in lung cancer patients of varying age, gender, race, and pack-years.
During all the trials that led to the fracture of a velvet ant's exoskeleton, a total of 4 times resulted in the death of that velvet ant within 24 hours.
The distinction somewhat resembles that proposed by August Weismann (1834–1914), who distinguished between germ plasm (heredity) and somatic cells (the body).
The crab sees the image of the predator looming larger as it approaches; on its own, this elicits a strong reaction from the crab.
They are globose or club-shaped on short peduncles, easily detached from the plant, and are food sources in the same sense as Beltian bodies, Müllerian bodies, Beccarian bodies, coccid secretions and nectaries.
There was a long debate between Poulton and the geneticist Reginald Punnett, one of Bateson's disciples.
The insects have historically been eaten by Native Americans, who fried them or roasted them in hot ovens, stirring them until they were well browned.
Camouflage is weakened by motion, but active camouflage could still make moving targets more difficult to see.
Research continues to be conducted to determine the relationship between XPD polymorphisms and lung cancer risk.
While the water is at a safe level, the tadpoles develop slowly on a diet of other opportunistic pond inhabitants.
Counter-illumination Counter-illumination is camouflage using the production of light to blend in against a lit background.
These extended areas seem to be associated with the identification of prey items, the recognition of conspecifics, and the identification of individuals.
found in a 2004 study that "men and women apparently achieve similar IQ results with different brain regions, suggesting that there is no singular underlying neuroanatomical structure to general intelligence and that different types of brain designs may manifest equivalent intellectual performance".
When the female drab stinkbug lays her eggs, she uses one hind leg to scrape some fungus from the other hind leg, alternating between legs, and then applies the fungus to each egg as it is laid.
Advergence versus mutualism The mimic poison frog Ranitomeya (Dendrobates) imitator is polymorphic, with a striped morph that imitates the black and yellow striped morph of Ranitomeya variabilis, a spotted morph that imitates the largely blue-green highland spotted morph also of R.
Cannibalistic tadpoles receive better nutrition and thus metamorphose more quickly, avoiding death as the pond dries up.
Some carnivorous plants may be able to increase their rate of capturing insect prey through mimicry.
He could not explain the source of variation in traits within a species, and did not have a mechanism of heredity that could pass traits faithfully from one generation to the next.
It comes from a characteristic of the Virginia opossum, which is famous for reacting with a death-like posture when threatened.
Much the same applies also to Abralia veranyi, but it was largely given away by its unlit fins and tentacles, which appear dark against the background from as far away as 8 metres (8.7 yd).
Some orcas ram sharks from the side to stun them, then flip the sharks to induce tonic immobility and keep them in such state for sustained time.
Emerging nymphs may molt in the grass or climb from a few centimeters (inches) to more than 100 feet (30 m) to find a suitable vertical surface to complete their transformation into adults.
These experiments show that mutations in the rhodopsin gene affected vision and can even cause retinal degeneration in mice.
The males and females are so distinct in their morphology that entomologists often find it very hard to determine whether a given male and female belong to the same species, unless they are captured while mating.
If one of the fish's eyes is damaged, or covered by the sand, the flounder has difficulties in matching its pattern to its surroundings.
Hence, Müller concluded, the proportion g1:g2 was ⁠a2/a1⁠ : ⁠a1/a2⁠, which equals a22:a12, and the rarer species gains far more than the commoner one.
Müllerian mimicry was first identified in tropical butterflies that shared colourful wing patterns, but it is found in many groups of insects such as bumblebees, as well as in other animals such as poison frogs and coral snakes.
In its broadest sense, aggressive mimicry could include various types of exploitation, as when an orchid exploits a male insect by mimicking a sexually receptive female (see pseudocopulation), but will here be restricted to forms of exploitation involving feeding.
Some tissues such as muscles can be made transparent, provided either they are very thin or organised as regular layers or fibrils that are small compared to the wavelength of visible light.
According to an article in a popular magazine in 1921, he “painted an airplane wing with the German cross upon it, which when viewed by our [U.S.] army through binoculars equipped with a red filter, discloses itself to be not the German cross, but the red, white and blue of the Allies.
They also demonstrated that crickets, like moths, fly away from bats once they've heard their echolocating calls, an example of negative phonotaxis.
A case somewhat similar to Batesian mimicry is that of mimetic weeds, which imitate agricultural crops.
Navy and the National Geographic Society invited Bittinger to paint on-site a total solar eclipse on Canton Island in the Pacific Ocean.
As Stevens describes, the frog has transparent eyelids, which allows it to look out for predators even when sleeping.
The species is overall widespread and common; however it is near threatened in the Western Ghats of South India.
For example, silent mutations that do not change the corresponding amino acid sequence of a gene may change the frequency of guanine-cytosine base pairs (GC content).
His students were mostly females, who would later go on to create decorative household works, jars with lids, urns and such.
Toads are at an increased risk of encountering meat ants, compared to native frogs because they are diurnal – rather than nocturnal like most native frogs – and cane toads' preference for open spaces where the predatory ants are most common.
This strategy has evolved in a diverse range of prey, including notably many species of plants, insects, and fish.
The blenny Plagiotremus townsendi resembles Meiacanthus and is eaten by a variety of predators, so it is a Batesian mimic in their case: but it is avoided by the lionfish, Pterois volitans, making it also a Müllerian mimic.
As mentioned, many bird species such as the swallows also mob predators, however more distantly related groups including mammals have been known to engage in this behavior.
Military Countershading, like counter-illumination, has rarely been applied in practice for military camouflage, though not because military authorities were unaware of it.
lizards, birds, rodents, and sharks, behave as if dead as an anti-predator adaptation, as predators usually take only live prey.
Depending on the species of moth and its ecology, the clicks may work by startling the bat, by jamming its echolocation system, or by warning of distastefulness (aposematism).
Some major forms of camouflage in fish include protective resemblance, disruptive coloration, countershading, mirror-siding, and transparency.
Adults Adult froghoppers jump from plant to plant; some species can jump up to 70 cm (28 in) vertically: a more impressive performance relative to body weight than fleas.
References External links Sea trout species help programme (in German) The Return of the salmon/trout...
Appearance of food Many aggressive mimics use the promise of nourishment as a way of attracting prey.
But, since they were used for data collection purposes, they were more like "ID-style shots", as he puts it.
The formal study of plant resistance to herbivory was first covered extensively in 1951 by Reginald Henry Painter, who is widely regarded as the founder of this area of research, in his book Plant Resistance to Insects.
This behaviour may represent motion crypsis, preventing detection by predators, or motion masquerade, promoting misclassification (as something other than prey), or a combination of the two, and has accordingly also been described as a form of motion camouflage.
These experiments provide evidence that the aposematic coloration of velvet ants causes their predators to hesitate, acting as a visual defense mechanism.
Presently, geneticists use the term genetic polymorphism to describe the functionally silent differences in DNA sequence between individuals that make each human genome unique.
Though Mendel was not aware at the time, each phenotype he studied was controlled by a single gene with two alleles.
Mesozoic froghoppers are divided into two main families, Procercopidae known from the Early Jurassic to early Late Cretaceous of Asia, which are thought to be ancestral to living froghoppers, and Sinoalidae, which is known from the late Middle Jurassic and early Late Cretaceous of Asia.
Evelyn Hutchinson, a founder of niche research, commented "It is very likely from an ecological point of view that all species, or at least all common species, consist of populations adapted to more than one niche".
In population genetics, a protected polymorphism is a mechanism that maintains multiple alleles at a certain locus.
Mimicry is not limited to coloration; behaviour, such as lying still or apparently fluttering in the wind, contributes to the camouflaging effect.
Overview There is a strong evolutionary pressure for prey animals to avoid predators through camouflage, and for predators to be able to detect camouflaged prey.
In Iran, until the early 20th century, the term mullah was used in Iranian seminaries to refer to low-level clergy who specialized in telling stories of Ashura, rather than teaching or issuing fatwas.
Rashi interprets the requirement to sanctify the kohen at mealtime as affording him the initiation of making the Bracha of HaMotzi at the start of the meal.
Their lifestyles are shaped to support their spiritual practice: to live a simple and meditative life and attain nirvana.
New opportunities for evangelism have been provided in recent decades by increased travel opportunities and by instant communications over the internet.
A vocation (from Latin vocatio 'a call, summons') is an occupation to which a person is especially drawn or for which they are suited, trained or qualified.
"Lay cardinals" At various times, there have been cardinals who had only received first tonsure and minor orders but not yet been ordained as deacons or priests.
They must be knowledgeable about the way boilers and shipping vessels work, since high temperatures and long storage times can affect the status of kosher foods.
The Council agreed that just as the patriarch consecrated the Maphrian, the consecration of a new Patriarch would be reserved to the Maphrian and that both would avoid interfering in the administration of the other.
Sometime around 270, Anthony heard a Sunday sermon stating that perfection could be achieved by selling all of one's possessions, giving the proceeds to the poor, and following Jesus.
Others were ex-Khmers Rouges or had ties to the Democratic Kampuchea, having some wonder if the participation of "immoral elders" in the public role of achar was not an obstacle to restoring order and justice in Cambodia.
Methodist usage The term "Superintendent" is used for several varying positions in Methodism worldwide since 1784.
“female advisor in Jewish law”) is an advisory role within Orthodox Judaism in which a woman is trained and certified to counsel other women on questions relating to Taharat HaMishpacha (Jewish family purity) and associated laws and women’s health issues.
Until June 2022, he was a member of the papal household; since then he heads the Dicastery for the Service of Charity, an administrative unit of the Roman Curia.
During the reign of King Josiah, Hilkiah, the High Priest of Israel, discovered it in "the House of the Lord" and realized that the people have disobeyed, particularly regarding prostitution.
This is an official position regulated by the Presidency of Religious Affairs in Turkey and only men are appointed to this position, whilst female officials under the same state organisation work as preachers and Qur'an course tutors, religious services experts, etc.
At first, the choir director and the organ had more of an influence on the services than the chazzan.
In some countries, it is given as a surname to those of great knowledge in religious affairs, by a prestigious religious leader from a chain of Sufi scholars.
See also Spiritual direction Satya Pir, a folk hero Panchpiria, an ethnic group defined by their reverence for five pirs References Further reading Renard, John (2009).
A gabbai (Hebrew: גבאי), sometimes spelled gabay, also known as shamash (שמש, sometimes transcribed shamas) or warden (UK, similar to churchwarden), is a beadle or sexton, a person who assists in the running of synagogue services in some way.
In 1955, Betty Robbins (born Berta Abramson in 1924, in Greece) was appointed as cantor of Temple Avodah, a Reform congregation in Oceanside, New York.
The leadership of Jain order passed from Mahavira to Indrabhuti, who was succeeded by Sudharma (607–506 BCE).
These efforts laid the groundwork for subsequent scholars, leading to the creation of the major hadith collections.
Asked why, Hai Gaon responded that Elijah revealed to him that, of the hundreds of kohanim that accompanied him in a haughty way, none were legitimate kohanim, except for one kohen who proceeded humbly.
This relentless inner drive, combined with their composed nature, makes them inclined towards creative thinking, spiritual depth, and analytical clarity.
Differences between terms While iyaláwo and ìyánífá are often used interchangeably, the terms have different denotations and connotations.
A Drumkeeper is a common name for someone in an Indigenous community who has inherited a traditional sacred drum and the right to play it in ceremony, or been instructed by their Elders in how to make and play one in order to fulfill this role.
Today, each of the former Soviet Republics with significant Muslim populations have their own independent Spiritual Boards.
At the national level, the Fatwa Committee of the National Council for Islamic Religious Affairs together with the five officials appointed by the National Council, collectively issue fatāwā at the national level.
He states that "Jainas" appear to have belonged to the non-Vedic Munis and Sramanas who may have been ultimately connected with pre-Vedic civilization".
As such, they were frequently consulted by the Serer kings (the Maad, Maad a Sinig, and Maad Saloum, and previously, the Teigne) preferably at the beginning of the rainy season.
The second figure in the Thommayut hierarchy is also known as the Mongol tepeachar (mangaladevàcàrya).
A chop-church, or church-chopper, was a parson who made a practice of exchanging ecclesiastical benefices.
rosh yeshivas) is the title given to the dean of a yeshiva, a Jewish educational institution that focuses on the study of traditional religious texts, primarily the Talmud and the Torah, and halakha (Jewish law).
Duties In Catholicism, Eastern Orthodoxy, Oriental Orthodoxy, High Church Lutheranism, and Anglicanism, only a bishop can ordain other bishops, priests, and deacons.
The Grand Imam heads the Al-Azhar Al Sharif, al-Azhar Mosque, and by extension al-Azhar University, and is responsible for official religious matters along with the Grand Mufti of Egypt.
With the co-operation of cruise companies, chaplains normally stay on board for the specific duration of a cruise.
After Tsongkhapa's death, his teachings were held and kept by Gyaltsab Je and Khedrub Je who were the next abbots of Ganden monastery.
The tradition spread across Jewish Eastern Europe and seems to have reached its height of popularity during the nineteenth century.
The role of a church usher is typically a volunteer position, and in the past was often considered one of honor, particularly if a church committee selects an usher by a nomination.
Usage Titles of pandit (and even ustad) are appended informally to the names of classical singers and players by their admirers, individuals or institutions, once they have reached eminence in their performing art, especially on public performances.
The Eastern Orthodox Church counters this by labelling Pope Nicholas I as a heresiarch due to the filioque in their own council.
Maddah (or Dhakir) is an individual who mentions/praises the great characters and religious education in (religious) gatherings; and its performance ought to be mostly full of Eulogy/Marsiya; besides, Maddahi doesn't have special gender, age, group or elegy.
After the training, which could take three to seven years, the girl would get her initiation rite to become a real shaman.
The Yamani or al-Yamani (Arabic: الیماني) is a pre-messianic figure in Shia Islamic eschatology, who is prophesied to appear to the people to guide them to the truth of Imam al-Mahdi, the ultimate savior of mankind from the Shia viewpoint and the final Imam of the Twelve Imams.
Established on 29 July 1775, by an act of Congress to serve the Continental Army, the chaplaincy has been involved in every armed conflict in which the United States has partaken.
After renouncing the world, the ascetic's financial obligations and property were adjudicated by the state, in the manner of a decedent's estate.
Sources differ as to when the institution of the marja' emerged, with Murtadha al-Ansari (died 1864) and Muhammad ibn Ya'qub al-Kulayni (died 940 or 941) both being called the first marja'.
For those wishing to devote their time and energy to the pursuit of conventional life, this kind of message is revolutionary, subversive, and profoundly disturbing".
According to the Book of Discipline of the United Methodist Church, The offices of bishop and district superintendent exist in The United Methodist Church as particular ministries.
Oshun, a female orisha who is featured in Oshe Tura, "encountered men who would not recognize her, so she established a sect of women called Iyami Aje to counterbalance the injustice.
Hinduism Other titles for the word Mahant, serving in the context of a well known religious place, include priest or pundit—generally always being a gyani or pastor.
God's Wife of Amun – the highest-ranking priestess of the Amun cult Ancient Israel The High Priest of Israel served in the Tabernacle, then in Solomon's Temple and the Second Temple in Jerusalem.
Patrick Olivelle, a professor of Indology and known for his translations of major ancient Sanskrit works, states in his 1993 study that contrary to some representations, the original Śramaṇa tradition was part of the Vedic one.
All Sunni madhhabs recognize four sources of sharia (divine law): the Quran, sunnah (authentic hadith), qiyas (analogical reasoning), and ijma (juridical consensus).
The word is a combination of Sanskrit word "acharya" (teacher) and the Burmese honorific "taw," which is used to denote nouns of religious or royal significance.
Hence, the Babylonian Talmud – when mentioning the archisynagogue – finds it necessary to translate the word by parnas.
There have been a number of charismatic sadhvis that have risen to fame as religious teachers in contemporary India, e.g.
Some amulets may take the form of small scrolls kept in pouches or similar containers, made from the skin of a sacrificed goat or lamb whose blood is used to ritually purify the intended owner.
As abbots, the duties of both a hegumen and an archimandrite are the same; however, during the Divine Service, a hegumen wears a simple mantle, while the mantle of an archimandrite is decorated with sacral texts; an archimandrite also bears a pastoral staff (pateritsa).
In some countries muftis are elected by adherents while in others they are appointed to the post by the council of muftis or appointed by the government.
As a group, the general authorities are often referred to as "the Brethren." As of October 2025, the church listed 130 general authorities.
One of them is the appearance of al-Yamani, the ruler of Yemen, who will invite people to right and truth.
1428) (1384, 1426) Giordano Orsini (1360/1370–1438) (1405, 1428) Antonio Correr (again) (1369–1445) (1408, 1438) Giovanni Berardi (1380–1449) (1439, 1445) Amedeo di Savoia (1383–1451) (1449, 1449) Francesco Condulmer (1390–1453) (1431, 1451) Giorgio Fieschi (c.
In the Middle Ages, before the Reformation, secular priests were entitled as knights, with the prefix "Sir".
This conflict severely damaged relationships between Anglicans in North America and in the third world, especially Africa and southeast Asia, and has caused a schism in the American Anglican church.
Notable persons Kumaran Asan, one of the triumvirate poets of modern Kerala References External links Media related to Aasaan at Wikimedia Commons
Clement of Alexandria (150–211) Clement of Alexandria makes several mentions of the śramaṇas, both in the context of the Bactrians and the Indians: Thus philosophy, a thing of the highest utility, flourished in antiquity among the barbarians, shedding its light over the nations.
Amarkol (Hebrew: אמרכל; plural, אמרכלים, amarkolim), is a title applied to a trustee of the Temple in Jerusalem superintending the cashiers (gizbarim).
In a way similar to that of some Native American traditions, the mystagogue in the fraternity system has the power to shut down parts of the fraternity which are not in keeping with customs or tradition.
A coarb, from the Old Irish comarbae (Modern Irish: comharba, Latin: hērēs), meaning "heir" or "successor", was a distinctive office of the medieval Celtic Church among the Gaels of Ireland and Scotland.
In one church the pastor (for example Fred Jones) may be called "Brother Jones", in a neighboring church he might be styled "Pastor Jones", others may call him "Brother Fred", "Pastor Fred", "Reverend Jones", "Minister Fred", "Preacher Jones" or any of a myriad of other titles and combinations.
Distinctions among different Christian denominations Oriental Orthodoxy and Eastern Orthodoxy The Orthodox Church in America teaches: Everyone has a vocation.
The temple at Eriza appears to have been particularly famous, "the wealthiest and most venerable in Armenia", staffed with priests and priestesses, the latter from eminent families who would serve at the temple before marrying.
Mashgichim may supervise any type of food service establishment, including slaughterhouses, food manufacturers, hotels, caterers, nursing homes, restaurants, butchers, groceries, or cooperatives.
The rituals are performed with money, liquor, animals, and in some places, human sex slaves called trokosi, fiashidi, or woryokwe.
For things that cannot be found in those books, you turn to the nearest representative of your marja, write a letter or e-mail or, more recently, raise the question on the website of your marja and receive your answer.
For example, Sannyasa Upanishad in verses 2.23 to 2.29, identifies six lifestyles for six types of renunciates.
The head usher receives instructions directly from the pastor and is responsible for training and scheduling ushers.
According to Kranenborg (1984), Jesus Christ fits the Hindu definition and characteristics of a guru.
By some accounts, he will reappear on the day of Ashura (the tenth of Muharram), the day the third Imam Husayn ibn Ali was slain.
In the American sense, specifically within the United Methodist Church, the title is used not to refer to a minister who is equivalent to a bishop but to the supervisor of a district, which is a regional subdivision below an episcopal area (equivalent to a diocese).
They led cult-like religious movements, promising prosperity, supernatural powers, or healing to their followers.
Victoria and Albert Museum In 1973, aged 38, he became the youngest director of the Victoria and Albert Museum (V&A), London, following John Pope-Hennessy who moved to the British Museum.
Such an individual is called a kohen muhzak (presumed kohen or status-quo kohen; Hebrew: כהן מוחזק, from חזק).
Rinpoche, also spelled Rimpoche (Tibetan: རིན་པོ་ཆེ་, Wylie: rin po che, THL: Rinpoché, ZWPY: Rinboqê), is an honorific term used in the Tibetan language.
Nomadic groups within places like the deserts of Egypt and Morocco maintained high birth rates compared to rural and urban populations, though periods of extremely high nomadic birth rates seem to have occurred in occasional "surges" rather than on a continuous basis.
This dual role that marabouts played in Senegal, some mobilizing voters while others discouraging political radicalism, enabled the persistence of democratic institutions, but at the same time, limited the power of autonomous civil society organizations.
It also points to the fact that Saxo does not mention the role of priests during the negotiations after the surrender of Arkona to the Danes.
A Contrary, in some Native American cultures, is a person who adopts behavior deliberately the opposite of other tribal members.
Historically, the position was held by members of the Al-Sheikh family, descendants of Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab, with the exception of Ibn Baz.
There are many laws unique to Deuteronomy, such as the prohibition of sacrifice outside "the place which the Lord your God will choose" (Deuteronomy 12:5) and having a national Passover sacrifice in a national shrine (Deuteronomy 16:1–8).
Soviet-era muftiates Ukrainian muftiates Uzbek muftiates See also Muftiate Grand Mufti Mufti == References ==
poskim, פוסקים‎ [posˈkim]) is a legal scholar who determines the application of Halakha, the Jewish religious law derived from the written and Oral Torah, in cases of Jewish law where previous authorities are inconclusive, or in those situations where no clear halakhic precedent exists.
Although interrupted by the cessation of the Patriarchate in 429 CE, the practice was renewed after the Arab conquest in the 7th century, when emissaries were sent by the heads of the academies (geonim).
Abraham Klausner – Chaplain during and after World War II who cared for the more than 30,000 survivors found at Dachau concentration camp, shortly after it was liberated in April 1945, as well as for thousands more in other Displaced Persons camps in southern Germany.
Cantors in Sephardic communities are often called paytan, and they are increasingly hired for their role within Sephardi synagogues, rather than being a member of the community who takes on the role.
Sikhism In Sikh history, the mahants (Gurmukhi: ਮਹੰਤ; mahata) were the hereditary managers who controlled and held the door keys of Sikh gurdwaras.
The Pontic region was self-governing as the Kingdom of Pontus from 281 BCE with the ascension of Mithridates I of Pontus (Persian Mithridatic dynasty) until 63 BCE when Mithridates VI of Pontus was defeated at the Battle of the Lycus by Roman General Pompey.
George Kastrioti Skanderbeg of Albania, called by Popes Callixtus III, Pius II, Paul II, and Nicholas V.
They fulfill functions that are complementary in nature, and would be meaningless in isolation from each other.
But, by the beginning of the 11th century, the time devoted to study had greatly increased, thus a larger proportion of the monks were in Holy Orders, even though great numbers of illiterate persons had embraced the religious life.
When most other gru enter a Buddhist monastery, they put their healing powers on hold and accept the role of an achar.
In 1977, following government cuts, he oversaw the closure of the much-lamented Circulation Department of the V&A, which organised tours of the collection around Britain.
The Military Rabbinate is headed by the Chief Military Rabbi, who carries the rank of a Brigadier General.
The hamsa mantra indicates the sound made by the inhalation ("ha") and exhalation ("sa") of the breath.
Vidutana, strong shamans standing in contact with the upper world Yanyani tadebya, shamans belonging to the earth Sambana shamans, shamans able to receive messages from dead people and to perform other rituals concerning the dead.
This meticulous work allows Muslims to distinguish between genuine hadiths and those that are fabricated, maintaining the integrity of Islamic teachings.
The Lakota heyoka (heyókȟa "sacred clown"), are the traditional contraries in the Oceti Sakowin (Očhéthi Šakówiŋ).
In modern Slavic priesthood In contemporary Slavic Native Faith, the volkhvs are those responsible for holding rites for worshipping the gods and leading communities and religious festivals.
These are regarded as encounters with the spirits, where the soul of the person is said to be journeying to the spirit world.
The Jain sangha (community) was led and administered by an organised system consisting of acharyas (leaders), upadhyayas (teachers), sthaviras (motivators of self-discipline), pravartakas (preachers) and ganis (leader of smaller groups of monks).
The hogon is central to a wide range of fertility and marriage rituals, which are closely related to Dogon origin myths.
"cardinal patriarchs") would also be cardinal bishops, ranking after the six Latin Church cardinal bishops of the suburbicarian sees.
Thus, the electrification project did not finalize until the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee took over management of the complex in the 1920s.
Categories The following categories of Nenets shamans are listed by Mihaly Hoppal, who cites research conducted by L.
Murphy refers to burials found with slipped capital femoral epiphysis (a condition associated with delayed sexual development in males), as well as individuals with chromosomal abnormalities, as potentially being the "effeminate males" Herodotus described.
Responsibilities The dean summons the conclave for the purposes of electing a new pope following a death or resignation.
Members of the Assembly are elected by people in elections, and are approved by bodies (the Guardian Council) whose members are appointed by the supreme leader or appointed by an individual (Chief Justice of Iran) appointed by the supreme leader.
Although the specific nature of the title is not attested, it is generally accepted that in the 10th–11th centuries, it signified the commanders of the contingent of foreign mercenaries serving in the Byzantine army.
Deobandis granted this title to their leader Hanafi Maturidi theologian Muhammad Qasim Nanautavi for his debates with scholars of other religions and establishing Darul Uloom Deoband.
History The practice became significant when one of the great queens of the Somavamshi dynasty decided that in order to honour the gods, certain women who were trained in classical dancing, should be married to the deities.
Yājñavalkya Smṛti, for example, differs from Manusmṛti and states in verse 3.56 that one may skip Vanaprastha (forest dwelling, retired) stage and go straight from the Grihastha (householder) stage to Sannyasa.
In the 17th century, the annalist al-Hamawi used the expression "sultanic mufti" (al-ifta' al-sultani) to delineate the difference between the officially appointed religious leaders and those who had followed the traditional way of education.
Sayyid Sibghatullah Shah Al-Rashidi II (Sindhi: سيد صبغت الله شاه الراشدي), Pir Pagaro the sixth, was a spiritual leader of the Hurs during the Indian independence movement.
Ben Sheshet explained that such a kohen is not entitled to the kohen's extra honor, even if his priestly lineage was verified, and "all the more so today's kohen who possess no lineage document".
Soreh Badshah (شهيد سورهيه بادشاهه) (the Victorious King or the great king) was the title given him by his Followers.
Mitzvot that are performed on one's own body, such as wearing tefillin, cannot be performed on one's own behalf by a shaliah.
ALEPH, the Alliance for Jewish Renewal, includes a cantorial training program as part of its ordination program.
This letter was not made public at the time and was published a few years later, so some have questioned the letter's validity.
As Berkey (1992) has described in detail for the education in medieval Cairo, unlike medieval Western universities, in general madrasas have no distinct curriculum, and do not issue diplomas.
a husband answering questions about immortality; a teenage boy being taught by Yama, Hinduism's Lord of Death).
These advisors respond to questions from women, educate on halachic and medical aspects of these topics, and serve as a supportive resource for women who wish to observe Jewish law and tradition.
An example, where the spelling is 'chopchyrche', occurs as the occupation of John Charles of Bishop's Milford, Wiltshire, as a defendant in a plea of debt, for 40/- (forty shillings) brought by John Wyot, merchant of Salisbury.
Ismailism The Isma'ili Fatimid caliphs used the title as part of their titulature, and in the Nizari branch of Isma'ilism, the ʾAmīr al-Muʾminīn is always the current Imam of the Time.
Instead, common terms used are "evangelist", "preacher", "minister" (or "pulpit minister"; the latter may be used if the congregation has assistant or associate ministers over certain programs or functions), or "preaching elder" (if the person is also an elder).
The Apophthegmata Patrum, or Sayings of the Desert Fathers, includes forty-seven sayings that are actually attributed to the Desert Mothers.
Cantor as a profession generally refers to those leading a Jewish congregation, although it also applies to the lead singer or choir director in Christian contexts.
A dāʿī, is a person who invites people to understand and accept Islam through dialogue and other techniques, who may be regarded as a missionary inviting people to the faith, prayer, and manner of Islamic life.
The Aga Khan was exceptional in that, while it was the local tribal influence that had enabled him to serve the British and gain their favour, his claim to nobility was based upon his claim to leadership of an entire sect of Islam.
Lineages of bhāṇakas were responsible for preserving and transmitting the teachings of the Buddha until the canon was committed to writing in the 1st century BC, and declined as the oral transmission of early Buddhism was replaced by writing.
Role in Inuit society Both women, such as Uvavnuk, and men could become an angakkuq, although it was rarer for women to do so.
Buddhism In Buddhism the term "Muni" is used as a title of Gautama Buddha — who, being born among the tribe of the Śākyas, is called Śākyamuni (sage of the Shakyas).
Catholicism Development of male religious congregations In the 17th century, education of the poorer classes began to be seen as a means of practicing charity, which had always been a mandate of Christianity.
The Shrine Article (神社条目, jinja jōmoku) of 1665 detailed how shrine priests obtained court rank, and gave the Yoshida family control over these assignments of rank and the types of ritual garb priests wore, bringing thousands of provincial priests under Yoshida authority.
Catholicism Hinduism Islam Judaism Neopaganism Raëlism Scientology Serer Zoroastrianism See also List of religious topics List of education topics == References ==
The sixth Imam of Shia says about the place of uprising, "[t]he rise of the Sufyani will be from Syria (Sham) and the rise of the Yemani will be from Yemen.
In a book written by the Prince of Ning Zhū Quán (朱權), he states that the clothing of Taoist priests in Ming was not too different from the “ancient” style of the Northern and Southern dynasties (420-589 AD).
Katarina Schuth has published a sociological study of Catholic priests who serve multiple parishes, and some of what she says applies to any "circuit preacher" clergy.
They are the Serer "hereditary rain priests" – guardians of the Serer religion and customs, a birthright they inherited from their ancient Serer Lamanic ancestors.
Historical context The tradition of collecting hadiths began soon after the death of Prophet Muhammad.
The initiate would often be blindfolded, and the mystagogue would literally "guide" him into the sacred space.
During his time as Headmaster of Bally English High School, he met Sri Ramakrishna Paramhans at Dakshineswar in 1881.
Ranks The Association of Shinto Shrines has regulations that confer one of five ranks called kaii (階位) on clergy members based on their level of education and passing of exams.
After completing his engineering, Swamiji worked as a scientist at Central Water and Power Research Station in Pune but chose instead to volunteer as a teacher at a blind school in Ramanagar district, Karnataka.
Islam In Islam, the role of cantor is fulfilled by an ordained muezzin, who calls the adhan in Islam for prayer, that serves as clergy in their congregations and perform all ministerial rites as imams.
Tadibya (tádyebya; Russian: тадебя) is the mediator between the ordinary world and the upper- and underworlds of the spirits among the Nenets people.
A debtera may charge a fee for his charms, exorcisms, and astrological practices, but not liturgical activities.
A Hymnal The creation of the Society of American Cantors in 1897 was partly in order to facilitate the composition of a hymnal for the UAHC (Union of American Hebrew Congregations).
Over time, the relations between the Maphrian and the Syriac Orthodox Patriarch of Antioch became increasingly strained, and at times lead to schisms and interference into the election of both maphrian and patriarch.
Meanwhile, in England, there was one notable instance of a Jewish woman receiving a formally appointment for a position within a synagogue.
Buddhaghosa wrote about the bhāṇakas as though they were contemporary in approximately the 5th century CE, but may have been reflecting the perspective of the earlier Sinhala commentaries – his remarks do not definitively establish that the bhāṇaka practice persisted into his own era.
These vows are traditionally taken by monks and nuns from the ordinary sangha, in order to develop personal ethical discipline.
The first literary reference to a volkhv occurs in the Primary Chronicle under the year 912; there, a volkhv predicts Prince Oleg's death.
In the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Finland, there are also deans in charge of leading the administrative work and personnel of the Chapters.
Herbal healing is a common practice in many Indigenous households of the Americas; however, medicine people often have more in-depth knowledge of using plants for healing or other purposes.
One view asserts restraint in sexual activity, towards monk- and nun-like asexuality, as transmutation away from worldly desires and onto a spiritual path.
Israel Isserlein, a rabbi from Neustadt, argued that this pattern encoded the biblical phrase "I shall come to thee and bless thee" In the Rhine, the custom was to strike thrice.
The word is related to the Sanskrit sādhu, which is derived from the verb root sādh-, 'to accomplish'.
The Synod of Bishops of the UGCC has defined the Sunday of the Prodigal Son as a "day of special attention" for its prison ministry, due to its focus on repentance and reconciliation.
Emphasis is placed not on Jewish law, but rather on sociology, modern Jewish philosophy, theology and pastoral care.
The root of the word "Maddah" is "Madh" which means expressing the excellent traits of a character or a thing.
Temples dedicated to Anahit In Armenia, worship of Anahit was established in Erez, Armavir, Artashat and Ashtishat.
Non-Hawaiian uses The term was used in the 1959 film Gidget, in which "The Big Kahuna", played by Cliff Robertson (Martin Milner in the TV episode), was the leader of a group of surfers.
In Mandaeism, a shganda (šganda; Classical Mandaic: ࡔࡂࡀࡍࡃࡀ, Modern Mandaic pronunciation: [əʃˈgænda]), shkanda (Arabic: شكندا, romanized: škandā), or ashganda (ʔšganda) is a ritual assistant who helps priests with ritual duties.
Kakini-ratna: A divine jewel or cowrie that produces immense wealth and is used by the monarch to mark his boundaries.
In Europe the term bayadere (from French: bayadère, from Portuguese: balhadeira, literally dancer) was occasionally used.
Biblical usage Inspiration for the Catholic use of the name pontiff for a bishop comes from the use of the same word for the Jewish High Priest in the original Latin translation of the Bible, the Vulgate, where it appears 59 times.
After 1 September 2003 their appointment was dependent on being a bureaucratically approved "fit and proper person".
Field dress was identical for enlisted men, non-commissioned officers, and officers, and was worn on the battlefield.
Ceremonies vary by prefecture, but typically itako are called upon to communicate with kami spirits to garner favor or advisement on harvests, or to communicate with the spirits of the dead, particularly the recently deceased.
Overview Some denominations specifically discourage or disallow lay ministers or lay preachers from assuming certain titles.
In the Archieratikon (Slavonic: Chinovnik), the liturgical book containing the services as celebrated by a bishop, the term Protodeacon is used to refer to the senior-ranking deacon who is serving, regardless of whether or not he has actually had that rank bestowed upon him.
Kannushi originally referred only to the highest-ranking member of the clergy at a shrine, but has since expanded to become a collective term for all members of the clergy, synonymous with shinshoku.
In modern Catholic, Orthodox and Anglican usage, presbyter is distinct from bishop: in the Catholic Church it means Catholic priest.
Conducting charity The synagogue has been a place where tzedakah (צְדָקָה, 'charity') is collected every weekday after services and then distributed to the needy before Shabbatot (שַׁבָּתוֹת, 'Shabbat days') and holidays.
The meaning of the Sanskrit root of the word swami is "[he who is] one with his self" (swa stands for "self"), and can roughly be translated as "he/she who knows and is master of himself/herself".
Many Mahasiddhas practiced specific tantras, for example Brahman Kukkuripa (34th in Abhyadatta's list) of Kapilaśakru practiced Cakrasaṃvara Tantra, Monk Virūpa (3) of Somapuri practiced Hevajra for 12 years, Monk Karṇaripa (Aryadeva) (18) of Nālandā practiced Guhyasamāja.
Note also the Roman Pontifical (the liturgical book containing the prayers and ceremonies for rites used by a bishop) and "pontificals", the insignia of his order that a bishop uses when celebrating Pontifical Mass.
The purpose of the concordance lists published in the appendices of his book is primarily for the reconstitution of the Indian names, regardless of whether they actually represent the same historical person or not.
African diaspora Cuban Santería, Haitian Vodou, Trinidad Orisha-Shango, Brazilian Umbanda, Candomblé, and other similar syncretist religions adopted the Catholic saints, or at least the images of the saints, and applied their own spirits/deities to them.
Until modern times, all pratishthas were supervised by them or pandits (such as Raighu)designated by them.
In Jainism, for example, Karma is based on materialist element philosophy, where Karma is the fruit of one's action conceived as material particles which stick to a soul and keep it away from natural omniscience.
The firzogerin attained her status because she was more knowledgeable than most women, often acquiring her knowledge of Hebrew and the intricacies of Judaism from her husband, father, or other learned relative.
Baptist and Methodist Among Baptists and Methodists, the sense of deliberate purpose before God is generally an expected part of the choice to seek ministerial work in the first place and is often referred to as a calling or call.
The reference 'saints' is a derivative of the word 'sanctified', which means 'set apart for a holy purpose'.
She is entitled to a number of rights and is encouraged to abide by specified requirements, for example, entitlement to consume some of the priestly gifts, and an increased value for her ketubah.
Thus the "silatigi" is the one who leads the community in following the right path, physical or spiritual.
Gyurme Dorje defines ngakpa (mantrin) as "a practitioner of the mantras, who may live as a householder rather than a renunciate monk." A ngakpa is thoroughly immersed and engaged in the practice of the teachings under the guidance of a lineage-holder.
The Nenets rank their shamans by their spiritual attachment and function as well as their experience.
In Ghana, Togo, Benin and other countries of West Africa, a fetish priest is a person who serves as a mediator between the spirits and the living.
The incident also drew commentary from national organizations focused on civil liberties and religious freedom, which argued that the assembly raised constitutional concerns.
Its authoritative status as an international law policy is stated by its dozens of international religious leaderships from various traditions endorsements along its acceptance by the United Nations.
The incident has sparked widespread condemnation and protests, particularly in Kerala, and has drawn significant political attention.
Red Guards set out to “smash the four olds,” including texts, relics, and cultural sites, from 1966 to 1967.
It included the lands and censuses of the state; of the clergy; of the military orders of Santiago, Alcántara, Montesa and St.
A 2012 analysis concludes that the Croatian state has to give about 1000 million HRK annually to the Catholic church.
Ninety per cent of books published in the kingdom were on religious subjects, and most of the doctorates awarded by its universities were in Islamic studies.
Foreign missionaries are also required to apply for missionary permits from the Bureau of Immigration and Labor.
French insistence on the lack of religion in all things public (laïcité or secularism) is a notable feature in the French ideal of citizenship.
Registration with the government is not mandatory for religious groups, but provides groups with some privileges, such as being able to own land and enter legal disputes as an organization.
The US Department of State report in 2002 stated that religious freedom was protected by law in Northern Cyprus and the government generally respected the freedom of religion.
The Faculty of Theology spoke out against it, and Parliament's Church Committee therefore did not promote the proposal before Parliament.
Freedom of religion in Brazil is a constitutionally protected right, allowing believers the freedom to assemble and worship without limitation or interference.
Since embassies are exempt from the host country's laws, which is a form of extraterritoriality, these chapels were able to provide services to prohibited and persecuted religious groups.
In 1687, during the reign of Christian V of Denmark, Jews were formally barred from the Kingdom of Denmark–Norway.
However, it found that the Government was authorised to characterise the applicant associations' movement as a "sect", "youth religion", "youth sect" and "psycho-sect" and was allowed to provide the public with adequate information about it.
The Serbian Orthodox Church maintains its greatest influence in the RS, with the most influential bishops residing in Banja Luka, Trebinje, and Bijeljina.
The Coalition to Investigate the Persecution of Falun Gong organized the international Global Human Rights Torch Relay that traveled through 150 cities in 35 countries of Europe, Asia, North America and Australasia to support a boycott of the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
Against this backdrop, independent experts urge the Ukrainian government to be sensitive in its dealings with the UOC-MP and OCU.
See also Fortune telling fraud Laws against witchcraft References External links The First Amendment Is for Fortune-tellers, Too, SecularHumanism.org
However, the party continued to support the disengagement and Finance Minister Binyamin Netanyahu's financial reforms.
However, there have been no recent examples of prominent religious figures addressing government functions.
The news service concentrates on the states of Eastern Europe, including Belarus and Russia, the South Caucasus, including Azerbaijan and Georgia, and Central Asia, including Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan,.
A considerable Bohemian force drove Leopold back from the suburbs of Prague, and the Bohemian Estates called upon Matthias to take over the government of their kingdom.
After his death his wife was forced to pass government officials the key to his quarters at Marischal College and his rooms were ransacked in a manner as though he was to have been charged with Arminianism.
Event Students raised objections that the assembly amounted to school endorsement of religion, which they argued conflicted with the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
When the Special Rapporteur on Freedom of Religion or Belief visited the Maldives' only prison, she found non-Muslim prisoners "unable to perform their prayers due to the objections of their Maldivian cellmates." There were no accommodations made for Hindu prisoners with dietary restrictions.
Intolerance remained the norm until Louis XVI, who signed the Edict of Versailles (1787), then the constitutional text of 24 December 1789, granting civilian rights to Protestants.
Status of religious freedom The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and prohibits discrimination based on religion.
Paulo newspaper, journalist Gilberto de Mello Kujawski reasoned that "Brazil is not a secular country.
Pro government newspapers Sabah, Star and Yeni Şafak accused the 'parallel structure' of wiretapping 20,000, 2,280 and 7,000 people respectively.
Prague outlawed all religious institutes and Catholic associations and gradually suppressed the Catholic press.
The ikhraj qaid, a civil document that indicates personal status information, can be presented by citizens instead of an identity card when they apply for various purposes, such as to obtain government employment or to enroll in or be employed at a university.
According to its law passed in 2004, if proselytizing is done in Qatar, for any religion other than Islam, the sentence is imprisonment of up to five years.
It was introduced by Benn a number of times until Benn's retirement in 2001, but never achieved a second reading.
In their letter to the President, the Danbury Baptists affirmed that "Our Sentiments are uniformly on the side of Religious Liberty": The address of the Danbury Baptist Association in the State of Connecticut, assembled October 7, 1801.
Adherence to Buddhism generally is considered intrinsic to the country's ethnic and cultural identity.
Berber dynasties (1060–1549) Almoravid dynasty (1060–1147) The Almoravid dynasty which came to power in the 11th century imposed stricter interpretations of Islamic law on its territories, comprising the western parts of modern Morocco, as well as the southern half of Iberia.
Background During both the English Commonwealth and the reign of Charles II, nonconforming dissenters including Roman Catholics, were subject to religious persecution and precluded from holding official office.
Stefanus Alliance International awards every second year the Stefanus Prize, a human rights prize, to individuals who have made an outstanding contribution to the work for freedom of religion or belief as defined by the Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
By its provisions, Christians who had "followed such a caprice and had fallen into such a folly that they would not obey the institutes of antiquity" were granted an indulgence.
Organizations applying for registration must have at least 10 members who are adult citizens and must submit an application form, organizational charter, minutes of an institutional meeting, and a list of founding members to SARA for review.
The Government regulates the publication, importation, and distribution of all religious books and materials.
The opposition to the laws led to judicial proceedings against the bishop and to a fine, which was, however, at once remitted by the Emperor.
The Government's efforts concentrated on monitoring mosques for sermons that incite violence or other political statements that it considered harmful to public security.
There was no evidence that the wearing of other, previously authorised, items of religious clothing, such as turbans and hijabs, by other employees, had any negative impact on British Airways' brand or image.
It states no person can be required to participate in any religious group’s ceremonies or to observe the group’s religious days of rest.
An antiracism law that prohibits discrimination based on nationality, race, skin color, ancestry, national origin, or ethnicity can legally be applied to cases of antisemitism.
Description On 25 July 2025, Sister Preeti Mary and Sister Vandana Francis, belonging to the Assisi Sisters of Mary Immaculate (ASMI) congregation, were detained at Durg railway station in Chhattisgarh.
The May Laws had the fullest support of Imperial German Chancellor Otto von Bismarck, though their actual author was Falk, who held state authority over the regulation of public worship as the Prussian Minister of Culture.
They had in 2015 enacted and made a video of a fake beheading, in order to protest against the building of a mosque in Bendigo.
Liljeström told the court that his purpose is to preach the gospel and win people for Jesus, and that the truth is needed to awake people.
Foreigners were not allowed to import any items deemed "contrary to Islam," including alcohol, pork products, or idols for worship.
Support The movement has received support from representatives of many faiths, such as monk Coen, Iyalorisa Sandra M.
They were accompanied by Sukaman Mandavi, and three adult tribal women, all above 18 years of age, from Narayanpur district.
In 1624 he translated to Greyfriars Church, Aberdeen and in December 1625 took on the additional role as Professor of Divinity at Marischal College.
See also Massacres of Badr Khan Demographics of Palestine Balfour Declaration Notes == References ==
Opposition Bishop Rudigier of Linz became known for his memorable struggle against the laws, which were hostile to the Church and against to the marriage and school laws.
As explained below, there are financial and other operational constraints for being recognized as an association cultuelle for tax purposes.
In the early 2000s, Catholics reportedly complained that the Government restricted access to the Galápagos Islands for ecological reasons to the extent that foreign missionaries had difficulty ministering to the 14,500 resident Catholics.
There was also a credible newspaper report that claimed security officials harassed and detained a Muslim carrying missionary publications in Taiz.
The Government presumed both a right and a duty to oversee religious practice at all levels to ensure religious practice fills these roles in society.
In contrast to those advocating laicity, accommodationists view the expression of one's religious faith in the public sphere as a human right, such as the wearing of a cross necklace or headcovering, for example.
And then said with withering scorn, "How can you who traffic in Caesar's coins and thus receive what to you are benefits of Caesar's rule refuse to pay taxes?" Jesus' whole preaching and practice point unmistakably to noncooperation, which necessarily includes nonpayment of taxes.
The Supreme Court stated that Åke Green had violated Swedish law as it currently stands regarding agitation against groups, and that the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of expression as well as freedom of religion does not protect him.
In 2021, the Unia agency reported 81 anti-Semitic incidents, a decrease from 2020; half of these were online.
In 2020, there were approximately 14,000 Druze in the country, and 1,000 people following the Baháʼí Faith; there were reported to be no Jewish citizens.
Declining a blindfold, he faced his executioners with a crucifix in one hand and a rosary in the other and held his arms out in imitation of the crucified Christ and shouted out, "May God have mercy on you!
The Supreme Court in Stockholm decided to accept the case, and on November 7, 2007, after more than four years of struggle (counting from the day he was reported to the police in October, 2003), he was finally acquitted of all charges.
As with 5:3 this verse cites the Kingdom of Heaven as the reward, also like that first verse the reward is in the present tense, the other six have it in the future.
In Christian V's Norwegian Code of 1687, the king's position as religious leader was established, and strict church discipline was introduced.
This preamble states Canada's constitution would be based upon Britain's, and Britain had limited free speech in 1867.
Panama The Constitution of Panama provides for freedom of religion, and prohibits discrimination based on religion.
Stuyvesant sent three new magistrates, all English colonists, and six colonial militiamen to gather information on dissidents.
This included the Diocese of Wenden, endowed by the king, and the newly opened Vilnius Academy, entrusted to the Jesuits (1579).
Appeal (March 2012) On 26 January 2012, the Tomsk prosecutor's office appealed the court's refusal to declare the Russian Bhagavad Gita As It Is an extremist text in a superior court, insisting that the book should be banned, and asking for more time.
An estimated 5,000 Salafis practice in Dushanbe without interference from other Muslims or the Government.
Local Muslim leaders worked with INAR to negotiate an agreement which allowed all mosques to reopen by December 2006.
Members The chairman of the Prometheus Society, who came under fierce attack from church circles, was Edvard Westermarck; the vice-chairman was Georg Schauman and the longest-serving secretary was historian Svante Dahlström.
Religious demography The country has an area of 283,561 square kilometres and a population of approximately 17 million in 2022.
Crimes like theft and rape which do not satisfy the conditions of punishments under hadd, are instead punished under the tazir system.
Penalties may include fines varying from 1,000 to 100,000 lei ($260 to $25,800), depending on whether the victim is an individual or a community.
The view that there should be a "death penalty for homosexual acts" was also uttered on the website by a guest, but that was repudiated by Leif Liljeström directly in the forum.
The uniform policy, which she had accepted by going to the school, did not create any undue hardship.
He then said that it was due to his religious convictions as a Christian that he could not sit on such cases.
In 1869, the Liberal parliamentary majority confiscated the lands forming the endowment of the Diocese of Linz and withheld them until its downfall in 1883.
In some past cases, officials concocted patently unbelievable explanations for events in order to exonerate local officials.
Proceedings and judgment In 1997, the European Court of Human Rights concluded unanimously that there had been a violation of Article 9.
The phrase "separation of church and state" does not appear in the United States Constitution, despite its wide use and origin from a founding father.
External links Articles Declaratory of the Constitution of the Church of Scotland at the official website of the Church of Scotland The full text of Articles Declaratory of the Constitution of the Church of Scotland at Wikisource
Petitions In 2019, The Supreme Court five-judge constitution bench made the following observation which weakened the act: "Historical wrongs cannot be remedied by the people taking the law into their hands." In 2021, the Supreme Court judgment had impacts on the Places of Worship Act.
Background Since the 1801 Concordat, church properties were managed by public establishments such as fabric councils and seminaries.
The Catholic Bishops, however, denied that there was any conflict between the concordat and the constitution.
Invocations since 2014 After the Greece, New York, decision by the Supreme Court, Atheists of Florida members have delivered invocations on several occasions to various local government bodies, all without incident.
In the apostolic constitution In hac sublimi of 23 August 1871 Pope Pius IX forbade any kind of secular interference in papal elections.
They have been described as "fascist"; however, the anthem of the Red Shirts was the Internationale, widely considered to be the socialist anthem, and Garrido named one of his sons after Vladimir Lenin, a Marxist and also considered himself a Marxist Bolshevik.
Both students described the protest as focused on constitutional protections and ensuring religious neutrality in public education.
The first reference to the "free trade in ideas" within "the competition of the market" appears in 1919 within US Supreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr.'s dissent in Abrams v.
Lustik has characterized "Jewish fundamentalism" as "an ultranationalist, eschatologically based, irredentist ideology".
See also Religious discrimination in Pakistan Secularism in Pakistan 2020 Karak temple attack National Commission for Minorities Rights (Pakistan) References "Pakistan" (PDF).
According to a 2019 study carried out by the European Commission, 13 percent of Slovakians believe that discrimination based on religion is widespread while 74 percent said that it was rare.
After studying in Vienna, in 1998 she was a fifth-year student at the faculty of medicine of the University of Istanbul.
Dale (2000), the Court ruled that a New Jersey law, which forced the Boy Scouts of America to admit an openly gay member, to be an unconstitutional abridgment of the Boy Scouts' right to free association.
This paved the way for the Jewish community to take physical possession of the building, although its ownership remained contested.
Response The CNCD decision provoked widespread public debate on the issue of religious symbols of public schools and on the overall role of religion in Romanian society.
Centre for Inquiry Canada CFI Canada (CFIC) is the Canadian branch of CFI Transnational, headquartered in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
A person may then choose to be a Baptist, a member of another Christian denomination, an adherent to another world religion, or to choose no religious belief system, and the church, the government, family and friends may not make the decision or compel the person to choose otherwise.
As a result of the incorporation of the Bill of Rights after the American Civil War, the protections of the Bill of Rights were extended to the individual states on the basis of the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution.
Perry Schmidt-Leukel, Hans-Peter Grosshans and Madlen Krueger (Eds.), Ethnic and Religious Diversity in Myanmar, London-New York; Bloomsbury Academic, 2022.
Its teaching, he declared, was a rebellion against the natural law of selection by struggle and the survival of the fittest.
In the same year, the country was rank as the 22nd most difficult place in the world to be a Christian.
The international Catholic organization Pro Oriente, which promotes a dialogue with the Orthodox churches, was also active in the country.
The government does not designate religion on passports or national identity documents, with the exception of birth certificates.
In an interview given in March 2003, Langlais emphasized that the issue at stake is not to fight "sects" as such but merely "deviances" these might have.
The registration effort began in April 2004 following an attack on a military post and arms depot in Narathiwat in January 2004.
Between 1939 and 1945, an estimated 3,000 members (18%) of the Polish clergy were killed; of these, 1,992 died in concentration camps.
Sean Faircloth said that cancelling the reading "really violates the basic principles of America ...
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice.
In an article of his authorship published in the Jornal do Brasil newspaper, law professor Ives Gandra Martins cited the words "under God's protection", from the Brazilian Constitution's introduction, as possible justification for the argument that the movement's aim is unconstitutional.
On the basis of tax regulations within the limits set by state laws, communities may either request the state to collect fees from members in the form of a surcharge of the income tax assessment (the authorities would then withhold a collection fee), or they may choose to collect the tax themselves.
The application of the Madoz law was suspended on 14 October 1856 but resumed two years later, on 2 October 1858, when O'Donnell was president of the Council of Ministers.
Discrimination against religious minorities in Pakistan is embedded in the very structure of the constitution.
R (on the application of Playfoot) v Millais School Governing Body [2007] EWHC 1698 (Admin) is an English discrimination law case concerning freedom of religion.
Alfred Leo Smith (November 6, 1919 – November 19, 2014) was a Klamath Nation drug and alcohol counselor and Native American activist from Oregon.
Since the time that the first president of the United States, George Washington, wrote a notable letter to the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) affirming their right to conscientious objection with regard to war, "the accommodationist position has been dominant in U.S.
It acknowledged an interference with the Article 9 (freedom of religion) rights to happen, but, unlike applicants, considered it was necessary in a democratic society to protect the rights of residents of the nearby village and public order.
Religious test for a Monarch The Sovereign of the United Kingdom is, in effect, required to take a religious test, as a result of the Coronation Oath Act 1688, Bill of Rights 1688, Act of Settlement 1701, and the Accession Declaration Act 1910.
The word Venta comes from the vendor stalls along the side of the road, as the area lies on the road from Pachuca to Mexico City and Actopan.
1712 – The Tolerance Act of Ernst Casimir in Büdingen, amidst war and plague, guaranteed "vollkommene Gewissensfreiheit", or "complete freedom of conscience", by demanding in return that civil authorities and subjects to behave as honorable, decent, and Christian Civilians.
A separate 2010 Pew Forum Report estimates more than half of the population practices elements of African traditional religions in their daily lives.
Ethnic Russians usually belong to either the Russian Orthodox Church or one of the Protestant denominations.
Azerbaijanis are forbidden to study in Iran-funded hawzas, Azeri women are discouraged and forbidden from mandatory Islamic veiling, alcohol such as beer and wine are domestically produced and regularly consumed, yearly Ashura commemorations are scrutinised and often banned.
See also Catholic Church in Croatia Concordat Croatia–Holy See relations Memorandum of understanding Relations between the Catholic Church and the state References External links A relevant opinion of the Constitutional court of Croatia
The organization has Centers For Inquiry in Amherst, New York (its headquarters), Los Angeles, New York City, Tampa Bay, Washington, D.C., Indiana, Austin, Chicago, San Francisco and Michigan.
This was a joint decision, meaning two cases were heard at the same time, so the case may be cited as either of the case titles.
The Republic of Colombia has an area of 439,735 square miles (1,138,908 square kilometers) and its population is estimated at 46 million.
In 2023, the country was scored 4 out of 4 for religious freedom; it was noted that Afro-Brazilian religious groups face considerable discrimination and violence.
Notes a Wayland states further "No man of his age had so clear conceptions of the rights of conscience as the founder of Rhode Island, and no one had ever carried them so honestly to their legitimate conclusions.
On March 20, 1906, Clemenceau declared in Parliament that "counting candlesticks in a church is not worth a human life." Clemenceau instructed officials to suspend inventories in the face of resistance.
For the essay accompanying Freedom of Worship, Post editor Ben Hibbs chose Durant, who was a best-selling author at the peak of his fame.
In November 2015, the CEMB launched the social media campaign #ExMuslimBecause, encouraging ex-Muslims to come out and explain why they left Islam.
1781 – The Patent of Toleration and its following 1782 Edict of Tolerance, by the Holy Roman Emperor Joseph II, extended religious freedom to non-Catholic Christians living in Habsburg lands, including: Lutherans, Calvinists, Jews, and the Greek Orthodox.
The New York Times obtained a copy of Wang's confession (which the report noted was likely signed under duress) and stated that The New York Times believed he was sacked for being too lenient on Uyghurs, for example his release of 7,000 detainees.
Articles 18 and 19 of the UDHR, taken together, effectively declare that it is a universal human right to engage in religious proselytism.
In Article 50 of the Constitution, it states that the state "extends its contribution" to the Catholic Church and "may" to other religions.
See also Early Rain Covenant Church – a house church in Chengdu, Sichuan, southwestern China References External links Official website
Religious peace and tolerance helped for development of the land, but it contributed to the future conflicts of interests between middle-class and nobility.
Cram school (dershane) crisis The conflict between the AKP and the Gülen Movement was fully underway after the government proposed a new law that would force several private cram schools, many of which are owned by the Gülen Movement, to close.
An unregistered religious community may register as another type of organization in order to open a bank account, but may not receive the tax exemptions granted to registered religious groups.
However, since 2006 the prime minister has appointed two Shia ministers to each cabinet, including the current one.
This law required the inventory of church property as part of preparations for transferring it to newly created religious associations.
However, the more precise metaphor of a marketplace of ideas comes from the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court of the United States.
Thornton Chase, commonly recognized as the first convert to the Baháʼí Faith of Occidental background, noted the Edict in his publication The Bahai Revelation published in 1909.
The modern concept of a separate civil government was relatively unknown until expounded upon by Roger Williams, a Christian minister, in The Bloudy Tenent of Persecution (1644) shortly after he founded the American colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations in 1636.
It was revoked in 1685 by Henry IV's grandson, Louis XIV, who once again proclaimed Protestantism to be illegal in France through the Edict of Fontainebleau.
The Chinese Communist crackdown on Christianity had paused in 2020 due to the 2019-2020 coronavirus pandemic.
In 1611, Rudolf inexplicably permitted his cousin Archduke Leopold to invade Bohemia with some 7,000 troops.
Israel has been evaluated in research by the Pew organization as having "high" government restrictions on religion.
The French commission Stasi is a commission set up to reflect upon the application of the laïcité principle.
While it remains common practice for government officials to take their oath of office with their hand on a Bible, this practice is no longer required.
The law ensured that citizens could use their tax dollars to support the church of their choice, not just the one officially sponsored by their community.
However, five of the men remain imprisoned, and the four that are no longer imprisoned still face restrictions.
Minority communities—particularly Tibetan Buddhists and Dalits—face additional obstacles, including restrictions on public ceremonies and caste-based discrimination at places of worship, despite constitutional guarantees against such practices.
Eastern Orthodoxy The jurisdictions below give various degrees of recognition in their constitutions to Eastern Orthodoxy, but without establishing it as the state religion: Greece: The Church of Greece is recognized by the Greek Constitution as the prevailing religion in Greece.
The Government closed down what it claimed to be extremist Shi'a religious institutes, reassigning imams who were thought to espouse radical doctrine, and increasing surveillance of mosque sermons.
In the mid-1910s, the society's activities waned as the social situation in Finland became more tense.
Pete Stark (D-Calif.), a member of the United States Congress since 1973, held the highest office of four public servants to acknowledge a secular world view to the Coalition after being nominated by a contestant.
Chinese Uyghurs who relocated to the UAE after facing human rights abuse at the hands of the Beijing government were subjected to detention, torture, and deportation from Abu Dhabi.
Priscillian was executed for heresy in 385, and Theodosius I began outlawing Rome's traditional religious rituals in 391.
Recent Stefanus Prize laureates include Asma Jilani Jahangir (Pakistan), Mine Yildirim and Aykan Erdemir (Turkey), Wagma Feroz (Pakistan) and Aiman Umarova (Kazakhstan).
The remainder of the population consists mostly of Russian Orthodox, Armenian Apostolic (Almost all of which live in the break-away region of Nagorno-Karabakh), Jews, and nonbelievers.
McClintock felt that by placing a child with a same-sex family, he would be neglecting his statutory obligation to do what is in the child's best interests.
Between 2005 and 2009, it was directed by former Nevada state senator Lori Lipman Brown, who became its first full-time lobbyist in September 2005.
The Prometheus Society (Swedish: Studentföreningen Prometheus, Finnish: Prometheus-seura) was a Finnish student society at the University of Helsinki from 1905 to 1914, whose main purpose was to promote religious freedom.
Although the provisions of the law on restitution state a separate law will be adopted to address such cases, to date there is no such law.
"A partition from the Army presented to the Commons inclosing 'An Agreement of the People', for the settlement of the Nation upon a new plan...".
Judgment On the accountability, the Court held, by sixteen votes to one, referring to its Loizidou v.
Tornillo (1974), the Court unanimously struck down a state law requiring newspapers criticizing political candidates to publish their responses.
This Kulturkampf did not end in 1848, however, but broke out again in the 1870s when the Federal Council and the Church fought over the division of the Swiss dioceses and the Catholic Church's claims to power.
Tanzania is the only country in East Africa that has not experienced continuous cycles of ethnic, religious or political violence since its independence from colonial rule.
In 2009 the state TV channel, TRT, announced its plan to air programs reflecting the interests of the Alevi minority.
For example, the government provides the Catholic Church with free television broadcast time for religious services.
During the reporting period, the MERA hosted several Christian and Muslim scholars and lecturers of various schools of thought to discuss interfaith relations and tolerance in Islamic traditions.
Arab dynasties (1549–1830) Saadi dynasty (1549–1659) The Saadi dynasty reimposed heavy taxes against non-Muslims, but also continued to appoint non-Muslims to positions of authority in Morocco.
Muslim iconoclasm Islam has a strong tradition of forbidding the depiction of figures, especially religious figures, with some Sunnis forbidding it entirely.
For example, Johannes Andreas August Grabau was stripped of his clerical office and imprisoned for one year.
The Federal Constitutional Court, after more than 11 years of consideration, decided that the use of the expressions "destructive", and "pseudo-religious" on the associations, and the allegation that they "manipulated their members", did not satisfy the requirements of constitutional law.
The whole act, so far as unrepealed, was repealed by section 1 of, and Part II of the schedule to, the Statute Law (Repeals) Act 1969.
Persecution Like other house churches, the Shouwang Church is subject to harassment by the Chinese authorities, who disapprove of religious groups that are not subject to state control.
The Remonstrance ends with: In response Stuyvesant dismissed the local government and chose new Dutch replacements as leaders.
The five who remain imprisoned are: Beket Mynbasov, Samat Adilov, Nazim Abdrakhmanov, Ernar Samatov and Bolatbek Nurgaliyev.
Mangin and LeClerc, after severe torture, had their tongues crudely cut out before being burned at the stake.
Background Serious international concern has been given about the situation of human rights in Kazakhstan, in particular concerning freedom of religion and arbitrary detention.
Government officials have stated that the Baháʼís are not a religious minority, but a political organization which was associated with the Shah's regime, is against the Iranian Revolution and engages in espionage activities.
In August 2005 one of the organisation's reporters was detained and deported by the authorities at Tashkent airport in Uzbekistan, but it carries on covering that country.
He said that Jehovah's Witnesses must receive permission from the committee prior to importing religious literature and provide samples of the literature to the committee.
Now we call on the state, through the Ministry of Education, to assume its responsibilities on what happens in schools in this respect".
In the early 2000s, a separate government agency, the General Directorate for Foundations (GDF), regulated activities of non-Muslim religious groups and their affiliated churches, monasteries, synagogues and related religious property.
Like the Treatise on Heretics, it is a "declaration of war" against Geneva and Calvin, finalizing the split between the two former colleagues.
This service will redound the more effectively to the welfare of all insofar as both institutions practise better cooperation" (ibid.
Philippe Berthelot and Sir John Cadman, San Remo, April 24, 1920): See also Partitioning of the Ottoman Empire Notes == References ==
An industry forum called the "Getting to Zero Coalition" has set a goal of carbon neutrality by 2030, which cannot be met by a single approach.
Decade of the 2000s: Consolidation, exit of many utilities In the wake of the Enron collapse in 2001, and the sputtering or reverse of deregulation efforts, many utilities shut down or sold their energy services businesses.
The creation of pooled energy sources per the British model and other systems adopted in Chile and Texas have led to greater demand price-response, allowing for the more efficient use of electricity and increasing the response of consumers to prices so fewer costs are afforded to them.
2023 In January 2023, Saudi Arabian Energy Minister Prince Abdulaziz Bin Salman said Saudi Arabia plans to use domestically-sourced uranium in its future nuclear power industry, including developing the full nuclear fuel cycle.
The International Building Performance Simulation Association (IBPSA), is a non-profit international society of building performance simulation researchers, developers and practitioners, dedicated to improving the built environment.
Sapatnekar, Sachin S.; Chuang, Weitong, Power-Delay Optimizations in Gate Sizing (PDF), archived (PDF) from the original on 2015-09-23, retrieved 2015-04-17 Shum, Warren; Anderson, Jason H.
The EPSG Geodetic Parameter Dataset is a widely used database of Earth ellipsoids, geodetic datums, geographic and projected coordinate systems, units of measurement, etc, which was originally created by EPSG and still carries the EPSG initials to this day.
For example, due to the lack of strict regulations in developing countries, sometimes workers smash old products, propelling toxins onto the ground, contaminating the soil, and putting those who do not wear shoes in danger.
Recently, many government-sponsored sources have developed technical guidance regarding sustainable refurbishment practices and have published their findings.
The core team leverages collaboration with a number of other government and multilateral organisations, with technical support from a large network of experts from industry, government and academia.
History According to the Decree of the President of Turkmenistan Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov on July 7, 2012 "On creation of the Ministry of Energy of Turkmenistan" was the successor of the abolished department of the Ministry of Energy and Industry of Turkmenistan.
It organizes and supervises the material and technical supply of enterprises, organizations, and installations.
In parallel to the World Sustainable Energy Days, the Energiesparmesse, an exhibition and trade show dedicated to renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, is held.
Cultural narratives might emphasize self-reliance, economic strength, or the role of oil in nation-building.
Potential energy strategies According to Kals, these are the energy strategies: Passive Strategy: There is no systematic planning.
Depending on the context, the power-to-heat can either be stored as heat, or delivered as heat to meet a need.
A key sustainable solution to heating is electrification (heat pumps, or the less efficient electric heater).
When hibernation begins, the computer saves the contents of its random access memory (RAM) to a hard disk or other non-volatile storage.
Responsibilities Identified the functions and competencies of the Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral recourses under Legislative Decree No.
Oil and gas Nuclear There is no nuclear power in Turkey yet, but Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant is being built and is expected to start selling power in 2023.
Rodrigo de Rato, Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund addressed the meeting of the Energy and Minerals Business Council.
A feasibility study has been completed and a co-operative created to carry out the project, which is expected to be completed in 2008.
But the succeeding Shmyhal Government re-created the Ministry of Ecology and Natural Resources (on 27 May 2020).
Sectors Forest industry Finnish forest companies are significant players in the global forest industry policy.
It was in charge of regulating activities in the oil and gas industry, petrochemical production, and transportation of hydrocarbons.
With Sir Ewen's death in the early 18th century, his son John Cameron became Clan Chief, soon after which his son, Donald would assume Achnacarry when Lord Lochiel (as his father was known) fled into exile in Flanders after the first Jacobite Uprising.
Justice, social, and environmental aspects A renewable energy transition can present negative social impacts for some people who rely on the existing energy economy or who are affected by mining for minerals required for the transition.
Not all pieces of wood in a dismantled building will fit in a new building, and it may be cheaper and easier, from a design and labor perspective, to simply get new wood (ex: wood from a 6-foot (1.8 m) deck being used in a 7-foot (2.1 m) deck).
Greenpeace and ReCommon criticized the decision in a statement, stating that dismissing the lawsuit could potentially prevent future climate litigation in Italy, while standing in contrast to the outcome of the KlimaSeniorinnen Schweiz case.
Digital Library — Online access to the Proceedings of the Annual Institutes, papers presented at Special Institutes, and original RMMLF Journal articles.
Challenges The Saskatchewan Conservation House project faced challenges, including the government-mandated inclusion of a solar hot-water system that proved to be expensive and inefficient.
This paradigm became more widely used with the introduction of cluster orchestration software like Kubernetes or Apache Mesos, since large monolithic applications require reliability and availability on the machine level, whereas this kind of software is fault-tolerant by design.
Enhanced geothermal systems (EGS) fracture underground rock to produce more steam; such projects can cause earthquakes.
Solar electricity price is going to become the benchmark price for deciding the other fuel prices (petroleum products, natural gas/biogas/LNG, CNG, LPG, coal, lignite, biomass, etc.) based on their ultimate use and advantages.
Membership and organization The IEA SHC's members are national governments, the European Commission and international organizations.
He was a Fellow of the Institution of Engineering and Technology and a Trustee of the National Energy Foundation.
Additionally, it is charged with overseeing the equal distribution of energy throughout the country.
Sections 72 to 75 were repealed as to England and Wales by Schedule 28 to the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2010 (SI 2010/675), and as to Scotland by paragraph 1 of Schedule 7 to the Environmental Authorisations (Scotland) Regulations 2018 (SI 2018/219).
The Lighthiser complaint named as defendants, President Donald Trump, several cabinet secretaries and numerous executive agencies, saying they are engaging in unlawful executive overreach.
The author argues that a major effort to introduce hydrogen cars before 2030 would actually undermine efforts to reduce emissions of heat-trapping greenhouse gases such as carbon dioxide.
Those supporting the adoption of RPS mechanisms claim that market implementation will result in competition, efficiency, and innovation that will deliver renewable energy at the lowest possible cost, allowing renewable energy to compete with cheaper fossil fuel energy sources.
Destruction of hydro peroxides is to happen before the first thermal treatment or during plasticization and can be supported by suitable additives like antioxidants.
The operation was announced as part of a plan to reopen the passage to international shipping by destroying Iranian naval vessels and drones targeting shipping in the strait.
Membership is composed of the world's most powerful mining and oil companies including BHP, Rio Tinto, Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, Woodside Petroleum, Saudi Aramco, Anglo American, PetroCanada and the BG Group.
This is through the distribution of affordable LED lamps that are recharged using a simple to use human powered generator that is more efficient than current solar.
law that required the President to promulgate regulations to allocate and control price of petroleum products in response to the 1973 oil crisis.
History Prior to its launch, the BPD was described in a conference presentation by Elena Alschuler and Cody Taylor from October 2012.
RPS programs tend to allow more price competition between different types of renewable energy, but can be limited in competition through eligibility and multipliers for RPS programs.
Taipei argues that Taiping can sustain human habitation with its freshwater wells and produce, and is thus an island under UNCLOS.
Unlike typical feed-in tariffs, customers can consume the electricity generated on-site and receive a production incentive – or a volumetric incentive payment – for the amount of electricity generated and consumed.
Section 6 – Short title, commencement and extent Section 6(1) authorises the citation of the Act by a short title.
Windows Vista introduced a hybrid sleep feature, which saves the contents of memory to hard disk but instead of powering down, enters sleep mode.
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) is a rating system organized by the US Green Building Council (USGBC) to promote environmental responsibility in building design.
Discussion As the starting level of the reduction is actually too high, in the end a reduction of only 25.5% will be achieved, not the desired and declared 30%.
The Gas Exporting Countries Forum (GECF) joined as an eighth partner in 2014, enabling JODI also to cover nearly 90% of the global market for natural gas.
Areas of work allocated to the Ministry Managing the exploration and exploitation of petroleum resources, including natural gas.
United States which tried–unsuccessfully–to force the federal government to change the country's energy system, the Lighthiser plaintiffs merely seek revocation of Trump's executive orders.
By providing resources, training access, and networking opportunities, they aim to close the gender gap in the industry while advancing sustainable refurbishment practices.
In 2003, CEER was formally established as a non-profit organization under Belgian law, with its own Brussels-based Secretariat.
It helps the government in proposing policies and strategies aimed at India's dependency on oil, in order to save money, reduce the environmental impact of oil use and also conserve fossil fuel.
The suit was filed against energy company Eni and two of its co-owners, the Italian Ministry of Economy and Finance and the investment bank Cassa Depositi e Prestiti.
Developing relations with Arab and foreign countries and organizations in matters of water, electric and renewable energy.
However, depending on the way the electricity is generated, the actual primary energy use may be higher.
Cold winter temperatures can be recovered by circulating water through a dry cooling tower and using that to chill a deep aquifer or borehole cluster.
The Thorium Energy Alliance (TEA) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization based in the United States which promotes the use of thorium in nuclear power.
Shortly after, Duterte called on the Department of Foreign Affairs to demand China recognize the arbitration ruling.
Anglo-American Policy toward the Persian Gulf, 1978–1985: Power, Influence and Restraint (Sussex Academic Press, 2015) Pillar, Paul R.
Background The Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources was created with the enactment of the Civil Service Reform Act of Bhutan 2022 on December 30, 2022.
In an interview with Wrangell's radio station he said it could be done by turning over to new owners with no debt.
Do you agree that Yacimientos Petrolíferos Fiscales Bolivianos should be re-established, reclaiming state ownership of the Bolivian people's stakes in the part-privatized oil companies, so that it can take part in all stages of the hydrocarbon production chain?
Blackle International, which translated Blackle into Portuguese, French, Czech, Italian, and Dutch, was retired in 2019.
Persily was widely quoted in national media in 2008 criticizing his former employer, then-Governor Sarah Palin, as John McCain's choice for vice president.
Paint is shipped to companies such as GDB International, American Paint Recyclers (Ohio), Metro Paint (Oregon), UCI Environmental (Nevada) and Kelly Moore, Visions Paint Recycling, Inc (California)& Williams Paint Recycling Company.
Many other studies have used this definition, such as International Energy Agency (2007) and Koopmans and Velde.
Fears of an uprising led the Bolivian government to take measures essentially forcing the population to vote (announcing fines and other penalties for those who refused or boycotted) and warned that protesters against the referendum would be imprisoned.
To obtain a building license, private buildings and most commercial buildings had to be built according to the regulation.
Newell and Simms noted that fossil fuels accounted for 81% of energy use in 2018 with forecasts, including those by the International Energy Agency, anticipating greater demand in future decades.
It documents Minimum Energy Performance Requirements for 24 types of residential, commercial, and industrial appliances and equipment in these economies and identifies products with the greatest potential for global harmonization.
The Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources of the Republic of Indonesia (Indonesian: Kementerian Energi dan Sumber Daya Mineral Republik Indonesia, abbr.
In this topic the facility manager has to deal with economic, ecological, risk-based and quality-based targets.
1971 and 1977: A series of reorganizations placed the energy sector under different ministries, reflecting the sector's increasing significance to the national economy.
Argentine Deputy Economy Minister Axel Kicillof rejected Repsol's initial demands for payment of US$10.5 billion for a controlling stake in YPF, citing debts of nearly US$9 billion.
Thermal bridges can also be created by uncoordinated construction, for example by closing off parts of external walls before they are fully insulated.
The PCRA took the campaign to the India International Trade Fair – 09, where the PCRA stall featured interactive games and quizzes to promote energy efficiency.
The Ministry was ultimately split in 2017 by President John Magufuli to tighten supervision on the two industries.
Indirect effects from conservation For conservation measures, indirect effects closely approximate the total economy-wide effect.
Description Precious Plastic is an open hardware plastic recycling project and is a type of open source digital commons project.
For small installations, a heat exchanger of corrugated plastic pipe can be shallow-buried in a trench to create a STES.
The Hawaii Gas Cap Law is a state law introduced in 2005 setting a price ceiling on wholesale gasoline prices, the maximum amount that may be charged for producing gasoline and delivering it to a service station.
In April 2015, Germany's Passive House Institute gave the designers of the Saskatchewan Conservation House a Pioneer Award for its design and construction.
Ending The Consortium was ended completely following the Iranian Revolution in 1979, with the assets of all foreign oil companies operating in Iran seized and their employees expelled.
The ministry delivers government services for geological sciences and is responsible for regulatory and legal development of energy, water, petroleum and mineral resource policy.
Vibro-wind power A new wind-energy technology is being developed that converts energy from wind energy vibrations to electricity.
ACPI 2.0 (2000) introduces a system of P states (power-performance states) that a processor can use to communicate its possible frequency–power settings to the OS.
The Ministry of Water, Irrigation and Energy is the governmental body of Koshi Province, Nepal, responsible for managing drinking water, irrigation, electricity, water-borne disasters (rivers and landslides) at the Provincial level.
Another motivation for energy efficiency is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and hence work towards climate action.
The first conference, SHC 2012 took place 9–11 July 2012 in San Francisco, followed by SHC 2013 on 23–25 September 2013 in Freiburg, Germany, SHC 2014 on 13–15 October in Beijing, China, and SHC 2015 on 2–4 December in Istanbul, Turkey.
In 2018, the industry discussed in London placing limits to cut levels from a benchmark of 2008 carbon dioxide emissions by 50% by the year 2050.
Service companies, in turn, do not need many materials, their energy-related focus is mainly facility management or Green IT.
References External links National Solar Conference/World Renewable Energy Forum Call for papers World Renewable Energy Network American Solar Energy Society International Solar Energy Society Colorado Renewable Energy Society National Renewable Energy Laboratory
List of ministers Environment, energy and climate change (2009–2015) Productive reconstruction, the environment and energy (2015) Environment and energy (since September 2015) References External links Official website (in Greek)
Another study conducted by Hydrocarbon Unit and Norwegian Petroleum Directorate in 2001 concluded that additional 42 TCF of natural gas could be discovered in the country.
Regulations of the Ministry of Energy of Azerbaijan were approved according to Presidential Decree No.149 on 11 April 2014.
Traffic lights are predictable, and it is often possible to anticipate when a light will turn green.
See also Renewable energy in developing countries Solar lamp UN-Energy References External links SolarAid Official website SunnyMoney Official website
Although accuracy of measurement of low AC current and quantities derived from it, such as power, is often poor, these devices are nevertheless indicative of standby power, if sensitive enough to register it.
These systems piped very high-temperature steam through concrete ducts, and were therefore not very efficient, reliable, or safe.
The Yom Kippur War of 1973, with the supplying of Israel by its Western allies while some Arab states received Soviet supplies, made this one of the most internationally threatening confrontations of the period.
Russian environmental groups say that the lifetime extensions "violate Russian law, because the projects have not undergone environmental assessments".
New departments and divisions were established, among them: Oil Chemistry Department, Internal Control Department.
All public events were streamed live online, broadcast on television, and are archived for future on-demand viewing at wgsi.org.
In 1945, the post of Secretary for Petroleum, which had only existed for a few years, was "abandoned".
It was created by Toby Heap of Heap Media Australia with the goal of saving energy by displaying a black background with grayish-white text color on search results.
To coordinate energy efficiency and conservation policies and programs and take it to the stakeholders To establish systems and procedures to measure, monitor and verify energy efficiency results in individual sectors as well as at a macro level.
In 2003, the Moroccan government announced that foreign companies could import oil without paying import tariffs.
In April 2022, CIA director William Burns traveled to Saudi Arabia to meet with Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, asking him to increase the country's oil production.
The directive, which took effect in October 2001, sets national indicative targets for renewable energy production from individual member states.
The gas cap had a baseline price that is the same throughout Hawaii, but the total wholesale price varied depending on seven zones, reflecting the differing costs of delivery to various locations throughout the state.
Data and API The BPD has an application programming interface (API) that can return the energy use intensity for any group of buildings defined by an API request.
The three large municipal waste incinerators provide 22% of the total in producing 116 GWh electric power and 1,220 GWh heat.
The Conference incorporates the 41st annual National Solar Energy Conference, the 37tn National Passive Solar Energy Conference, the 7th ASES Policy and Marketing Conference, and a Renewable Energy Products and Services Exhibition.
In 2007, China announced the creation of a strategic uranium reserve to complement its strategic petroleum reserves.
The Kerr-McGee company had been granted exploration contracts by the Moroccan government in 2001, but it withdrew in 2006, reasoning that the possible oil and gas stores were not as promising as earlier data had suggested.
Production started to increase again in 2009, spurred by high gold prices, and achieved record new highs each year in 2012, 2013, and 2014, when production reached 2,990 tonnes.
Fossil fuels Most electricity today is generated by burning fossil fuels and producing steam which is then used to drive a steam turbine that, in turn, drives an electrical generator.
Spray-on fire retardant or pressure impregnated fire retardants can reduce the spread of flame and radiated heat output.
IAEA helps countries by providing expertise and training if a state decides to create a nuclear power plant with all guarantees.
The government established the Bureau of Oil and Gas which is under the Ministry of Basic Industry and Mining in 1961.
The Joint Organisations Data Initiative (JODI) is an international collaboration to improve the availability and reliability of data on petroleum and natural gas.
Spray foam insulation's most important attribute is the ability to air seal creating a custom airtight envelope within the building structure.
If they elevate the threat of their weapons program to a level that we believe that requires action, that option is on the table." On March 30, 2017, Tillerson met with President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan of Turkey.
The American Clean Energy and Security Act reported out of committee in July by the Senate Committee on Energy & Natural Resources includes a Renewable Electricity Standard that calls for 3% of U.S.
Reaction Time: Climate Change and the Nuclear Option is a 2007 book by Professor Ian Lowe The book is about energy policy.
United We Roll were a pro-oil industry movement calling for the construction of pipelines and protesting against the carbon tax.
117M parameter sized) GPT-2 model has had twelve attention heads and a context window of only 1k tokens.
After separation and filtration, in a second step, the salt is neutralized with strong mineral acid to precipitate the terephthalic acid.
Synthetic Fuels Corporation Act Biomass Energy and Alcohol Fuels Act The Biomass Energy and Alcohol Fuels Act of 1980 addresses general biomass energy development in its various forms, and the use of gasohol.
In 2019 students in the Environmental Fellows Program's gateway seminar at DePauw University in Indiana began work on a Precious Plastic project, and received funding from the Joseph and Carol Danks Centers Council Fund for Multidisciplinary Projects.
Section 5 – Interpretation This section defines the words and expressions "dwellinghouse", "energy efficiency measure", "equipment", "fuel poverty", "the GPDO" and "renewable or low-carbon source" for the purposes of the Act.
Such events allow Ukrainian and European leaders share their views and define instruments required to obtain energy independence at a country level and in the whole Europe”, noted the President of Burisma Group Nikolay Zlochevsky.
Background It was launched in 2011, with Obama Administration's Startup America Initiative, a White House campaign to inspire and promote entrepreneurship.
In August 2022, the Hungarian Nuclear Energy Authority authorized Rosatom to expand the nuclear power plant at Paks with two new VVER reactors with capacity of 1.2 gigawatts each.
Power dissipation of a gate occurs in two ways: static power dissipation and dynamic power dissipation.
Heat distribution The district heating scheme has over 30 km of mains pipes connecting over 1,200 properties.
Based on the caps there are carbon emission permits that give the companies the ability to produce more carbon emissions then the cap would permit.
OpenAI continues to face multiple suits by authors and news organizations with mixed procedural outcomes and contested evidentiary issues.
Many areas are more dependent on forced cooling and a system for extracting heat from dwellings to be used for other uses are not widely available.
The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy (MNRE) of India has announced a revised estimation of the potential wind power resource (excluding offshore wind power potential) from 49,130 MW assessed at 50m Hub heights to 102,788 MW assessed at 80m Hub height at 15% capacity factor.
Energy Database ETDE's Energy Database was a substantial collection that focused on energy research literature and technology literature.
The development of a composite indicator normalises the data, thus enabling the constituent indicators (representing water, energy and food) to be aggregated.
In 2012, it was reestablished as Energy department was split from the Ministry of Infrastructure, and Environment department of reorganized former Ministry for Environmental Protection was split.
HSPF, which is normally measured rather than calculated, is reduced by losses due to such things as electrical resistance in the motor and thermal resistance in the evaporator.
In January 2021, Persily repurchased the Wrangell Sentinel newspaper, looking to rebuild it for a sustainable future.
Ministry of Electricity and Energy (Burmese: လျှပ်စစ်နှင့်စွမ်းအင်ဝန်ကြီးဌာန; abbreviated as MOEE) was the ministry of Myanmar composed by two ministries, Electrical Power (MOEP) and Energy (MOE) by President Htin Kyaw.
The regulations mandate that from 6 January 2010 "off mode" and standby power shall not exceed 1 W, "standby-plus" power (providing information or status display in addition to possible reactivation function) shall not exceed 2 W (these figures are halved on 6 January 2013).
King Hubbert, who created a method of modeling the production curve given an assumed ultimate recovery volume.
American officials have criticized Saudi Arabia for actively enabling Russians to bypass US-EU sanctions and for undermining Western efforts to isolate Vladimir Putin.
Air Force installations for municipal facilities, including identifying opportunities for energy efficiency retrofits in various Ontario municipalities.
Some real-world examples of those measures include the following: EU's energy consumption labeling scheme, U.S.
Unplugging a device constantly consuming standby power saves a yearly 9 kWh for each watt of continuous consumption (saving $1 per year at average US rates).
Membership The founding members of the IPEEC are Brazil, Canada, China, European Commission, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Mexico, Russia, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
The energy can be in any form in either subsystem, but most energy recovery systems exchange thermal energy in either sensible or latent form.
The policies targeted eight fields: housing and civic infrastructure, transportation, labour and green manufacturing, energy generation, food and agriculture, environment and green infrastructure, innovation policy, and foreign policy.
The Canadian Centre for Energy Information (CCEI) is a Canadian federal government website and portal that was announced on May 23, 2019.
Petrostates are typified by weak economies, where products are more frequently imported than domestically produced.
At present, the participants are from Belgium, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK and the USA.
The support of domestic energy has been mainly based on traditional bioenergy and highly disputed fossil peat energy alternatives.
Pakistan is one of three original participant states (others being India and Israel) that refused to be signatory of the NPT.
Being a country that depends heavily on foreign petroleum import for both domestic consumption and as raw materials for light industry manufacturing, electrification is a huge component of the Chinese national energy policy.
In 1966 Department of Oil and Gas Affairs is merged into the Ministry of Mines and Oil and Gas which oversees the Department of Oil and Gas.
The NEB was created in 1959 and reported through the Minister of Natural Resources to the Parliament of Canada.
It is built by the Department of Energy in the United States and maintained by the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.
A PI higher than 100% means the region produces more than it needs to meet its own requirements and so can export.
Between these two factors, roughly 20% must be added to the energy of the fuel consumed, to accurately account for the total energy used.
Annotated bibliography for the South African nuclear weapons programme from the Alsos Digital Library for Nuclear Issues
The ministry was renamed as the Ministry of Energy of The Republic of Armenia on 4 August 1995 by a decision of the Armenian government.
The Moral Equivalent of War speech was a televised address made by President Jimmy Carter of the United States on April 18, 1977.
Without License Plates: You can report a vehicle without license plates abandoned on a City street or sidewalk.
This includes facilitating the building of a new set of nuclear power stations and the establishment of a new regulator, the Office for Nuclear Regulation.
History Ministry of Commerce (1948-1993) The ministry began in 1948 as the Ministry of Commerce during the First Republic.
Applications Packaging applications Spray foam is a very specialized packing material, often required for use in shipping valuable fragile items.
It marked the creation of an oil monopoly, or cartel, of immense influence, spanning a vast territory.
However, a high y-intercept can mean that there is a fault in the process, causing it to use too much energy with no performance, unless there are specific distinctive features which lead to high base loads.
The Ministry of Energy of Azerbaijan Republic (Azerbaijani: Azərbaycan Respublikasının Energetika Nazirliyi) is a governmental agency within the Cabinet of Azerbaijan in charge of regulating the activities in the industry of production and energy sector of Azerbaijan Republic.
This legal ordinance was issued and repeatedly updated – The requirements were set to stricter standards in irregular intervals – by the Federal Government, which was authorized to do so by §1 of the Energy Conservation Act (Energieeinsparungsgesetz, EnEG).
Instead under the EPI the financial value of the proven and verified energy savings from the invested solution are shared between the end beneficiary and the investor at a predefined ratio.
The Shah also sought to terminate the 1954 Consortium Agreement an effort which was finalized with the 1973 Sale and Purchase Agreement.
Even so, most candidates opt for perfect foresight and do not natively admit probabilistic actions or explicit behavioral responses.
Officers from your local police precinct will respond when they are not handling emergency situations.
In June 2014, the trustees of Union Theological Seminary in New York City unanimously voted to begin divesting fossil fuels from the seminary's $108.4 million endowment.
As a result of the agreement, the French Compagnie Française de Petroles (CFP) acquired the 25% share held by Deutsche Bank in the Turkish Petroleum Company (TPC).
INOGATE was closely involved with the development of the Eastern European Regional Centre for Hydrocarbon Metrology in Boyarka, Ukraine, which 'provides state-of-the-art calibration services for gas transfer within the region and to other countries'.
The Cuban economy, heavily dependent on economic aid from the Soviet Union, suffered tremendously following the end of the Cold War.
Benefits and limitation PUE was introduced in 2006 and promoted by The Green Grid (a non-profit organization of IT professionals) in 2007, and has become the most commonly used metric for reporting the energy efficiency of data centres.
Support for building performance simulation users IBPSA has partnered with ASHRAE and IESNA to develop the Building Energy Modeling Professional Certification scheme.
Therefore, it is essential to dry the PET flakes or granules to a very low moisture level prior to melt extrusion.
Ukraine is already an important strategic link in the overall system of energy security in Europe", - Nikolai Zlochevskyi said.
From 1980 to 1990 the tax generated gross revenue of about $80 billion, or 80% less than the projected amount of $393 billion.
The report by Human Rights Watch stated that US-made bombs were being used in attacks indiscriminately targeting civilians and violating the laws of war.
Removal Units were generated and issued by Kyoto Protocol Annex I Parties for carbon absorption by land use, land-use change, and forestry (LULUCF) activities such as reforestation.
In March 2013, the Panama UN-REDD National Programme was suspended pending the results of an independent investigation and evaluation.
The 2012 and 2016 RGGI Program Reviews completed in 2013 and 2017 resulted in several updates to the program.
ExxonMobil 2000s activities In the 2000s, ExxonMobil was noted to have been a leading figure in the business world's position on climate change, providing substantial funding to a range of organizations that seek to challenge mainstream scientific consensus on global warming.
The term commonly encompasses two broad categories: large-scale carbon dioxide removal (CDR) and solar radiation modification (SRM).
President Joe Biden reinstated the IWG through Executive Order 13990 in 2021, directing it to update SCC estimates to reflect scientific advances.
Lessons from Milnthorpe Arboretum for native establishment There is a pleasant mix of native understory species in the at Milnthorpe, such as tree ferns, māhoe (whiteywood) and coprosma.
10.7 million eligible residential customers saved an average of $35 on their electricity bills in October 2014.
According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), global battery storage capacity is expected to increase nearly 15-fold between 2021 and 2030, driven by falling costs and increased investment in clean infrastructure.
There are three ways that CO2 can be separated from a gas mixture: post-combustion capture, pre-combustion capture, and oxy-combustion: In post combustion capture, the CO2 is removed after combustion of the fossil fuel.
The scheme proposed by the Task Group had some similarities to the "hybrid scheme" developed by Warwick McKibbin.
The SRREN addresses the information needs of policy makers, private sector and civil society in a comprehensive way and will provide valuable information for further IPCC publications, including the upcoming IPCC 5th Assessment Report.
Carbon offsetting is the practice of using carbon credits to offset or counter an entity's greenhouse gas inventory emissions in line with reporting programs or institutional emissions targets/goals.
Toyota Australia confirmed the Granvia will replace the Tarago by the end of 2019, however, they were sold alongside each other for a short period of time.
Contributors could calculate their estimated annual amount of CO2 emissions in their country of residence, using a "CO2 calculator".
This negative externality can be reduced by taxing carbon content at any point in the product cycle.
A high emissions baseline was an advantage for countries whose emissions had subsequently fallen due to economic collapse.
In Laos, for example, published research analysed how FCPF-linked REDD+ processes interacted with domestic forest zoning and land governance, and reported stakeholder concerns about participation and timing pressures associated with preparing for results-based finance.
Similar to the AGF report, there are many high-profile reports; addressing climate finance sources with a focus on innovative sources.
December 2008 - Thailand Eco Kids camps begin 22 April 2009 - Projects begin in South Africa in conjunction with World Environment Day.
At times, the passenger had to get out and walk alongside the car to see the kerb and operate the steering through the side window while the driver operated the pedals.
It has a large portfolio of greenhouse gas emission reduction projects covering numerous countries and technologies.
Historical observations From as early as the 13th century, air pollution became increasingly prevalent, and a predominant perception in the 13th century was that sea-coal smoke would affect one's health.
CORSIA applies to international flights representing 60% of aviation emissions CORSIA and will regulate 25% of aviation's international emissions.
By the end of 2008, over 4,000 CDM projects had been submitted for validation, and of those, over 1,000 were registered by the CDM Executive Board, and were therefore entitled to be issued CERs (Carbon Trust, 2009, p.
Background Steel production is a significant source of global CO2 emissions, contributing approximately 2.8 billion tonnes annually, which accounts for around 8% of worldwide emissions.
The tax rate for gasoline in Canadian currency was 0.8 cents per litre, or about $3.50 per tonne of CO2 equivalent.
See also 365-Euro-Ticket Free public transport References External links THE MOST IMPORTANT THINGS TO KNOW ABOUT THE 9-EURO TICKET (www.rmv.de) Visit Berlin with a public transport ticket valid for one month for only 9 Euros!
Local resistance Some civil society groups have argued that most CDM projects benefit big industries, while doing harm to excluded people.
For residential customers, each customer gets the same credit amount, regardless of how much energy the customer consumes.
Interim results for the period from June to mid-July showed that 35% of participants used buses and trains more, while 3% used their cars less.
The vehicle achieved 147 miles per gallon (mpg) city in plug-in electric hybrid mode (PHEV) and 52 mpg highway in hybrid mode, according to Sapphire Energy.
Global registry of fossil fuels In February 2021, Carbon Tracker, a UK-based think tank, and Global Energy Monitor, a US-based research organization, announced the creation of an independent and standalone Global Registry of Fossil Fuels.
On 14 September 2009, the National Government announced that it had reached an agreement with the Māori Party about revisions to the NZ ETS.
The Stern Report shows that the overall cost of strong early action is much less than the cost of inaction.
Consequently, there is no cap or limit on the volume of emissions permitted in New Zealand provided that emissions units are imported into the country and surrendered.
South Pole consecutively won awards, as part of Environmental Finance's Annual Voluntary Carbon Market Rankings, from 2018 to 2021.
The Climate Change and Emissions Management Amendment Act of Alberta was the first law of its type to impose greenhouse gas cuts on large industrial facilities.
Most economists assert that carbon taxes are the most efficient and effective way to curb climate change, with the least adverse economic effects.
The city council has the authority to increase the tax after the first year up to a maximum permitted tax rate of $0.0049/kWh for residential customers; $0.0009/kWh for commercial customers; and $0.0003/kWh for industrial customers.
PAS 2060 is a specification detailing how to demonstrate carbon neutrality produced and published by the British Standards Institution.
The local currency, when accepted for trade by other members or local businesses, thereby rewards participants for their efforts at global warming prevention.
Nevertheless, a couple of international governance instruments have addressed geoengineering collectively.
The UK's National Audit Office and DEFRA's consultants ran reviews of the system in order to establish its basis and drew lessons from it.
Since then the market for sustainability management services has grown in line with the need for private and public sector organisations to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions, in response to new climate change legislation and the imperative for voluntary action.
Response The United States government rejected all new innovative sources at international scale proposed in the AGF report, namely, Financial Transaction Tax (FTTs), Special Drawing Rights (SDRs), and Bunker Fuels in the Maritime and Aviation Sector.
There will also need to be an plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to achieve their Paris agreement.
In 2008, the company collaborated with 7 other carbon management organisations to found the International Carbon Reduction and Offset Alliance (ICROA), a non-profit organisation that promotes best practice across the voluntary carbon market.
If the Commonwealth refuses to commit at this time, the States and Territories will introduce an emissions trading scheme by the end of 2010.
If the receiving country uses ITMOs towards its NDC, the host country must discount those reductions from its emissions budget by adding and reporting that higher total in its biennial reporting.
Mootral is a British-Swiss company that is developing a food supplement to reduce methane emissions from ruminant animals, chiefly cows and sheep, but also goats.
Design The Chicago Climate Action Plan consists of five strategies: Energy Efficient Buildings; Clean & Renewable Energy Sources; Improved Transportation Options; Reduced Waste & Industrial Pollution; and Adaptation.
In 2019, Renault's Clio and Captur diesel models were found to emit more pollutants outside of official test conditions, their exhaust treatment did not work in everyday use when the outside temperature range was below or above those covering official tests.
In 2023, they cautioned that these techniques could pose serious environmental risks, highlighted scientific uncertainty about their effects, urged strict application of assessment frameworks, and called for broader international cooperation.
Aims EELA hopes to reduce the GHG emissions of artisanal brick producers in the countries of operation by 30% and increase their income by 10%.
In the initial years, this transfer is estimated at €44 per month, an amount sufficient to lift the 700 million people living on less than €2 a day out of extreme poverty.
They can also purchase credits from facilities whose emissions are below the 100,000-tonne threshold but are voluntarily reducing their emissions.
CO2-Plume Geothermal (CPG) is a proposed technology that combines carbon capture and storage (CCS/CCUS) with geothermal energy extraction, utilising carbon dioxide (CO2) itself as a geothermal energy extraction fluid.
With the fate of the Kyoto Protocol undetermined beyond 2012, the EU has limited offset projects in Least Developed Countries.
RETScreen Version 4 was launched on December 11, 2007, at Bali, Indonesia by Canada's Minister of the Environment.
For example, it is now common for sheep farmers to spend more money on shearing their sheep than the return from their wool-clip.
They aimed to introduce a mandatory cap and trade system for greenhouse gases, as a response to the threat of anthropogenic climate change.
In July 2017, a new version called the Gold Standard for the Global Goals was released, superseding the previous Gold Standards.
46 countries have put some form of price on carbon, either through carbon taxes or carbon emission trading schemes.
The Economist described the Clean Development Mechanism as a "complete disaster in the making" and "in need of a radical overhaul".
In January 2016, The Climate Mobilization sponsored a "Climate Emergency Caucus" in Des Moines before the Iowa caucuses, which simulated the state's 2016 Democratic presidential primary caucus.
As a result, instead of buying European products, the consumers in the European Union are buying imported products with high emissions, so instead of declining the emissions just travel to other countries and the European industry suffer losses.
Some critics have proposed this device will act similar to a diesel particulate filter, which has been shown to increase back pressure on the engine, thereby marginally affecting the efficiency of the engine, resulting in a loss of power, decreased mileage, and increased CO2 emissions.
Climate Defiance is a climate movement organization in the United States which uses direct action protests to demand stronger climate change mitigation policies.
The rationale behind a meta registry is to maintain transparency and prevent double counting and double issuance.
It was endorsed and adopted in 2006 by a consortium of institutions, associations and other bodies in the Sustainable Energy Manifesto.
They emphasise that many people, including some disabled people, cannot get around without a car, and the charity's efforts to reduce the number of cars in cities hopes to make their lives easier too.
In a broad stroke, Renewable Energy Payments, sometimes known as a Feed-in Tariff place obligations on utility companies to buy electricity from renewable energy sources, often small, local companies, for a fixed period of time.
In September 2009, the National-led government announced that a push would be made for the formation of a Global Alliance to investigate methods of reducing greenhouse gas emissions due to agriculture.
Scientists currently cannot evaluate exactly how much carbon is stored or released in these processes, and concerns about the payout of carbon credits for these uncertain processes exist among climate scientists.
"Climate Change, Constitutions, and Courts: The Reference re Greenhouse Gas Pollution Pricing Act and Beyond".
Based in Qatar, Global Carbon Council is now one of the two CORSIA-eligible international GHG programs that are headquartered in developing countries.
Hydrogen power In 2009, Japan fitted over 100,000 homes with hydrogen powered fuel cells, improving its hydrogen powered infrastructure.
The association manages exclosures (land protected from grazing) with the intent of improving the ecosystem and sequestering carbon.
Carbon Clear is a founding member of the International Carbon Reduction and Offset Alliance (ICROA).
Importance of native trees There is a widespread backlash, particularly from the farming community, against large conversions of farmland to forestry.
In terms of quota allocation, the majority of respondents favored a population-based distribution, corresponding to the egalitarian approach of the Cap and Share model.
Small amounts of the rail system then followed, with more electrification occurring in the 1980s, including the East Coast Main Line.
The World Bank's negative pledge clause prohibits its debtor countries from using public assets to repay other creditors before they repay the World Bank.
Outside the UNFCCC system, the AGF report is extensively referenced in climate financing discussions at the G20, European Union, International Maritime Organization, and other international forums.
On The Move: SDC Annual Review 2005 – proposal by the UK Sustainable Development Commission for the UK Government to undertake a full-scale pilot and risk assessment of introducing personal carbon trading for individuals and small businesses.
Following CORSIA's approval, Global Carbon Council has been listed among select international programs qualified to supply carbon credits to international airlines in order to meet their carbon neutral growth targets.
Many economists argue that carbon taxes are the most efficient (lowest cost) way to tackle climate change.
At the end of November 2022, the transport ministers reaffirmed the commitment to the monthly ticket for 49 euros and it is planned to start in April 2023, an earlier start already in January was considered too timely for implementation.
The fall of the Soviet Union led to massive restructuring and deindustrialization of many of the former Soviet Bloc.
Technical specifications Safety Euro NCAP The Aygo X in its standard European market configuration received 4 stars from Euro NCAP in 2022.
The GHGPPA requires that all provincial and territorial governments establish a pollution pricing scheme that meets the national minimum price per tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent and established emission caps under the act.
In February 2024 Guyana became the first country to make TREES credits available under CORSIA after completing the required corresponding-adjustment steps.
In 2021, a team from UC Davis found that additions of 0.25% and 0.5% reduced cattle's enteric methane emissions by 69.8% and 80% respectively.
Operations CO2balance operates as both a primary project developer and a consultant for a range of carbon management services for both private and public sector organisations.
In 2003, the bank decided to move the analytical work in bond valuation to the Chennai office, whereby the bank moved the work outside its headquarters in Washington, DC for the first time in its history.
Clean Air Act The worst recorded instance was the Great Smog of 1952, when 4,000 deaths were reported in the city over a couple of days, and a subsequent 8,000 related deaths, leading to the passage of the Clean Air Act 1956, which banned the use of coal for domestic fires in some urban areas.
There is also the fear that personal "rationing" and trading of allowances will be politically unacceptable, especially if those allowances are used to buy from industries who are already passing on costs from their participation in carbon levy or trading schemes such as the EU ETS.
Both Pakistan and The Bahamas joined this call in December, bringing the total number of countries working towards the development of a Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty to 15 in early 2025.
President Obama's last Climate Action Plan, issued in June 2013, included regulations for the industry with the ultimate goal of cutting domestic carbon emission, preparing the U.S.
Report The High-Level Advisory Group released its final report on 5 November 2010, just ahead of the 2010 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Cancun, Mexico.
To close the gap between the two concepts, carbon pricing could put a cap on emissions, remove pollution from underserved communities, and justly divide revenues.
Unlike classic command and control regulations, which explicitly limit or prohibit emissions by each individual polluter, a carbon tax aims to allow market forces to determine the most efficient way to reduce pollution.
It calls for fossil fuel divestment and phase-out of use with a just transition to a low-carbon economy.
ecosecurities is a company specialized in carbon markets and greenhouse gas (GHG) mitigation projects worldwide.
On the other hand, planting eucalypts is relatively cheap, and the grass and other problematic weeds are soon shaded out.
All funds collected under the federal system are returned to the province or territory where they are collected.
However, the company is also dedicated to advancing the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), so ensures that as well as reducing CO2 emissions, the projects also deliver real and demonstrable benefits to target communities.
Transition to net zero - Carbon neutrality" PAS 2060 will be withdrawn from use on 30 November 2025.
Whereas in degraded rangeland, 11.8% of the rainfall flows directly away to the river (runoff coefficient), this happens only for 4.7% of the rain in a recent exclosure and 0.3% in an old exclosure.
The Milnthorpe Model describes a situation where fast-growing non-indigenous trees such as eucalypts, are used to colonise ex-pasture in order to establish a forested environment where indigenous canopy species can thrive.
Both government and the automotive industry committed to investing £500 million each, totalling £1 billion over a ten year period.
The Aygo X was previewed by the "Aygo X prologue" concept car, which was presented on 17 March 2021.
Some experts on carbon credit markets have called for inclusion of small scale GHG reduction projects and verification methods that are valid, appropriate and cost effective for projects of this size.
Climate Change and Emissions Management Fund A third option would be for companies to pay $15 for every tonne over their reduction target.
At the 2023 United Nations Climate Change Conference, Palau, Colombia, and Samoa all formally endorsed the treaty.
References External links List of international emission registries (link is outdated) European Commission (ETRs)
Ultimately it is hoped that degraded land in these communities will be reforested and climate change lessened through the project, while at the same time village economies are enhanced.
Following the repeal of Alberta's provincial fuel levy on May 30, 2019, the federal fuel charge system will be applied to Alberta beginning January 1, 2020.
The review concluded that the scheme did achieve some emission reductions from the participants, although more could have been achieved had targets been more demanding.
Shane Ardern, a National Party MP, drove a tractor up the steps of Parliament as part of a protest against the tax.
The Forests Now Declaration was a 2007 declaration that advocates using carbon credits to protect tropical forests.
PeroCycle has received industry support from Anglo American, which has expressed interest in reducing emissions in steel supply chains, and Cambridge Future Tech, which is involved in commercialising the technology.
This includes Members of the House of Representatives and Senators in the United States and Members of Parliament and Senators (appointed) in Canada.
Some of the initiatives to date include: Joining US volunteers at the Annual Conference/Lobbying in Washington, D.C., to meeting with Members of Congress.
The Malaysian government announced a comprehensive plan that centered on sustainable development, green technology, biodiversity preservation, and climate change mitigation.
Sharma and his team spent close to three years researching how to purify and repurpose carbon soot from auto and factory emissions, a major contributor to air pollution and global carbon footprint.
Additionally, Blue Carbon has done deals covering 10% of Liberia, 10% of Zambia, 8% of Tanzania (which also signed a deal handing 5.9 million acres to a similar company GreenCop Development), the Bahamas, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Saint Lucia, Dominica, Comoros, Pakistan and Kenya.
Overview With increasingly stringent safety and emissions requirements in Europe, A-segment cars became more expensive to develop and produce, resulting in dwindling sales.
India has argued that NAMA means voluntary reductions by developing countries that require to be supported and enabled by technology transfer from developed countries.
If insufficient green energy sources are available, the utility must develop new ones or contract with a third party energy supplier to provide green energy, causing more to be built.
Voluntary Emission Reductions or Verified Emission Reductions (VERs) are a type of carbon offset exchanged in the voluntary or over-the-counter market for carbon credits.
In July 2021, the UK Government released the document "Decarbonising transport – a better greener Britain" and at the same time released the supporting Rail environmental policy document.
It ran in parallel with a tax on energy use, the Climate Change Levy, introduced in April 2001, but companies could get a discount on the tax if they elected to make reductions through participation in the trading scheme.
History The Carbon Neutrality Coalition (CNC) was founded in 2017 by 16 countries and 32 cities, inspired by Bhutan.
In March 2010, the advisory group presented a plan to the MGA that called for implementation beginning in January 2012.
Design The design of a carbon tax involves two primary factors: the level of the tax, and the use of the revenue.
Building operational efficiency has continued to improve such that the embodied carbon of the building now comprise a larger portion of the building's total emissions over its lifespan.
This trading of permits results in a marginal economic disincentive to the buyer and a marginal economic incentive the abater.
The use of bicycles by police has been increasing, since they provide greater accessibility to bicycle and pedestrian zones and allow access when roads are congested.
In 2015, the Carbon Trust launched the Carbon Trust Supply Chain Standard to look at carbon footprints across the supply chain.
Share prices of other German automakers were also affected, with BMW down 4.9 percent and Daimler down 5.8%.
Mootral was a finalist in the Shell/BBC/Newsweek World Challenge 2009 as one of the 12 most promising solutions to climate change.
As such, the weighted average cost of carbon is the cost a company incurs to balance its carbon liability (carbon footprint).
CPG has the potential to generate over twice the power of conventional, water-based geothermal systems for similar conditions: while the specific heat capacity of CO2 is less than that of water, the significantly lower dynamic viscosity of CO2 would enable higher overall energy extraction rates.
External links CCS Norway CO2 stored website Project Greensand Zero Carbon Humber CO2 storage and Enhanced Oil Recovery in the North Sea A Carbon Capture, Utilisation, & Storage Network for Wales
For powertrains, The 1KR-B52 1.0-litre petrol used in the pre-facelift model was replaced with the M15A-FXE 1.5-litre petrol hybrid for the facelift model.
On 8 November 2016, economy and energy minister Gabriel vetoed the plan amid concerns by trade union IG BCE and supported by the BDI industry group.
The Declaration was named for the Lofoten archipelago where public concern has successfully prevented offshore development of petroleum reserves.
On 9 February 2007 CAF declared: Premiers and Chief Ministers expressed their expectation that the Prime Minister would make a commitment to the introduction of a national emissions trading scheme following receipt of the Task Group report in May 2007.
Traditional steel manufacturing relies on coal and coke as reducing agents, making decarbonisation challenging.
This carbon discount rate is different from the social cost of carbon, which attempts to value the cost to society for a given unit of carbon emissions.
Background Carbfix was founded by the then Icelandic President, Dr Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson, Einar Gunnlaugsson at Reykjavík Energy, Wallace S.
Organizers are concerned that a rise in global temperature above 2 degrees Celsius would cause widespread environmental harm.
Verified Emission Reductions are usually created by projects which have been verified outside of the Kyoto Protocol.
One of the reasons were the delays and cost overruns on the 21st-century modernisation of the Great Western Main Line project.
Clients get to use a specific carboNZero certification logo and are certified against ISO 14064-1 for organisation or PAS 2050 for products or service.
The annual cost of compliance is estimated to be $177 million - or less than one-tenth of one per cent of Alberta's nominal GDP ($242 billion in 2006).
Since South Korea was not enlisted as an Annex I Country in the Kyoto Protocol, it had been exempt from emission reduction obligations.
An independent evaluation of inventories that have been developed using this protocol has questioned whether they capture the full range of Scope 1 sources within their jurisdictions.
China's Eleventh Five-Year Plan (2006–10) called for cutting energy consumption per unit of GDP up to 20 percent by 2010 while reducing major pollutants, such as sulfur dioxide (SO2) by 10 percent.[3] Tianjin Property Rights Exchange TPRE was launched in 1994, under government approval.
In such areas, all internal combustion engine vehicles are banned; this includes any plug-in hybrid vehicles which cannot run zero-emission.
It also emphasizes financial assistance from developed countries to developing countries to reduce emissions.
CCX started trading in October 2003, prior to the commencement of trading in the European Union through the ETS system.
Through cap and trade, it is believed that both competitiveness and possibly carbon leakage will be reduced.
References External links The Energy Performance of Buildings (Certificates and Inspections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007 Guide to air conditioning inspections for buildings CIBSE Knowledge Portal: TM44 Energy Performance of Buildings Directive TM44 Inspections
Article 17 also required that any such emissions trading must be supplemental to domestic action for the purpose of meeting quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments.
This bill also would provide for the trading of emission allowances and reductions as Climate Change Credits.
In December 2018 Sydney, Melbourne, Scotland, Scottish Power, Senegal and Israel also joined and in September 2019 seven new members joined including Germany and Slovakia.
Fakhruddin Ahmed was the chief adviser of the interim Government of Bangladesh during the political crisis of 2006–2008.
This is a way to avoid several problems of CDM and JI such as additionality, measurement, leakage, permanence, and verification.
They also believe it would increase ‘carbon literacy’ among the public, while encouraging more localised economies.
Each abatement strategy was compared with the "least-cost solution" produced by a computer optimization program to identify the least-costly combination of source reductions in order to achieve a given abatement goal.
These include excess profits generated by CDM projects designed to reduce emissions of industrial gases, adverse effects of projects on local communities, and the failure of the CDM to promote development in the poorest regions of the world.
See also Certified Emission Reduction Emission Reduction Unit Removal Units Voluntary Emissions Reduction Flexible mechanisms List of Kyoto Protocol signatories == References ==
History Ember was originally founded in 2008 as Sandbag, focussing on the European Union's Emission Trading Scheme, allowing its members to campaign to reduce the number of permits in circulation and to purchase permits and cancel them.
Paragraph 4.5 of the Initial IMO GHG Strategy states that '[t]he mid-term GHG reduction measures should effectively promote … a just and equitable transition'.
Economist Geoff Bertram compared the price incentives of the 2008 NZ ETS with a carbon or greenhouse gas tax for Kyoto commitment period 1, 2008 to 2012.
The Department of Ecology fined Climate Care Innovations, an offset project operator, $425,000 for falsely claiming that it owned over 3 million allowances.
The underlying premise being that with fixed payments the once volatile renewable energy projects now become lendable and attractive for financing, thus stimulating growth and innovation.
In May 2023, following months of criticism towards Verra in its handling of carbon-offsetting, CEO David Antonioli resigned.
It was supported by Representatives Ro Khanna and Barbara Lee, and mayors Sam Liccardo and Libby Schaaf.
In response to these concerning trends, the Global Commons Institute (GCI) developed Contraction and Convergence (C&C) as a framework to mitigate the adverse effects associated with these disparities.
The overall height of Previas equipped with moonroofs is increased by 30 mm (1.2 in) so the interior headroom is not reduced.
These are: use of electricity by the community; use of fuel in residential and commercial stationary combustion equipment; on-road passenger and freight motor vehicle travel; use of energy in drinking water and wastewater treatment and distribution; and generation of solid waste by the community.
Annual Budgets: The budget is distributed annually over the three phases of the scheme: Phase A: Commencing from the start of the ECO4A order on 25 July 2023 and concluding on 31 March 2024.
The goal of reduction was aimed particular towards the largest green house emitting countries The United States, China, Japan, and India.
See also IPCC 4th Assessment Report (AR4) IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) IPCC Summary for Policymakers IRENA Renewable energy commercialization REN21 List of books about renewable energy References External links Report (in English) IPCC SRREN: Full Report (In German)
The teacher reassures them that this is "fine, it's absolutely fine, it's your choice" and there is "no pressure", but then shifts the papers on her desk to reveal a red-buttoned detonator, which she presses.
This is via operation of a voluntary carbon marketplace to provide recognition of, and facilitate carbon finance for, GCC projects.
These projects resulted in the largest carbon credit portfolio worldwide, worth over USD 4 billion, giving the company a significant global market share.
The vehicle is offered as a family van, a standard passenger taxi, and a wheelchair‑accessible taxi with a longer wheelbase and integrated ramp.
Status of NAMA submissions As of September 2012, about 50 countries have submitted information of their NAMA to the UNFCCC.
Funding The ETC is funded by various businesses and organizations, including major oil and gas companies – this was a source of concern from many observers.
Washington Initiative 732, like the British Columbia carbon tax, was to impose a steadily-rising tax on carbon emissions, while offsetting the state's sales tax and business tax/and to expand the state's tax credit for low-income families.
Examples of similar plantings from other regions and microclimates must be examined before a useful generalisation could be made.
Using biological methods, a study led by Professor Lee Sang-yup at the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST) and published in the international science journal Nature used modified E.
At the same time Martin Weitzman, a leading climate economist at Harvard, published a theoretical study arguing that such a regime would make it far easier to reach an international agreement, while a focus on national targets would continue to make it nearly impossible.
The report also proposed shared data fields and protocols intended to be broadly accessible, framing common data infrastructure as a way to increase transparency and oversight as trading volumes grew.
In January 2017, VW pleaded guilty to the emissions scandal and agreed to pay US$4.3 billion in penalties.
He gave the 1987 John Beaglehole Memorial Lecture and the inaugural Peter Freyberg Memorial Lecture.
Districts The New Zealand Police is organised into 12 districts: nine in the North Island and three in the South Island.
The fireworks must be tested and have been proved that they comply with the Hazardous Substances (Fireworks) Regulations 2001.
In 1986 he began studying law at Victoria University of Wellington, from which he graduated in 1989, and he was admitted to the bar in 1990.
The leader becomes the National Party's candidate for prime minister in the run-up to an election, and they invariably take office as prime minister when the National Party forms a government.
Chair Dame Kerry Prendergast (Acting) (2018-2019) Edward Ellison (2019-current), a sheep farmer and former deputy kaiwhakahaere (administrator) of Te Runanga o Ngāi Tahu (TRoNT).
In the New Zealand Parliament, the shadow leader of the House is traditionally appointed by the largest Opposition party.
The application for a Green Card can be lodged at any Czech embassy/consulate (or, in some circumstances, within the Czech Republic if the applicant is already resident there) and is usually processed within 60 days.
Prebble docked himself 2.5 percent of his own pay over the dismissal, after an inquiry found Prebble forgot to mention a conversation he had with Benson-Pope.
2024 Reform On 7 February 2024, Justice Minister Paul Goldsmith announced that government funding for cultural reports would be stopped under the new National-led government.
Two are appointed after consultation with the Minister of Māori Affairs, two after consultation with the Minister of Tourism and one after consultation with the Minister of Local Government.
In 1997, Wintringham succeeded Hunn as State Services Commissioner and head of New Zealand's public service.
Stuart-Black, J., Coles, E., Norman, S.; Disaster research and the social sciences: lessons learned and future trajectories.
Members of United, Reform and the National Political Federation jointly decided to form a new party in May 1936 in the form of the National Party.
The minister is in charge of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, including New Zealand's diplomatic staff.
Captain William Hobson (26 September 1792 – 10 September 1842) was a Royal Navy officer and colonial administrator who served as the first governor of New Zealand from 1841 to 1842.
He held various senior management positions in Fonterra from 2000, culminating as Fonterra director of global stakeholder affairs from 2015 to 2018.
What amounts to “reasonable grounds” is not defined in the Search and Surveillance Act 2012, however a search warrant will be invalid only where the application for it was insufficient or it is so defective as to be likely to mislead the affected parties.
Working closely with agencies such as New Zealand Trade and Enterprise and the New Zealand Defence Force, MFAT represents the country in fora ranging from the United Nations and World Trade Organization to APEC and the Pacific Islands Forum.
Vogel returned to New Zealand at the start of April and asked Fox to stay on to the beginning of the next session of Parliament, but he refused and passed the office on to Vogel.
Fortuin is also named as a Director of a group of Risk Management companies owned by the Accident Compensation Corporation in New Zealand.
Newall was promoted during the middle of this debate, and proved perhaps more flexible than might have been expected.
The Supreme Court Act 2003 (Public Act No 53 2003) was an Act of the Parliament of New Zealand which created the Supreme Court of New Zealand as the country's court of final appeal, and which consequentially abolished appeals to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in the United Kingdom.
As a result of his previous service on Fitzgerald's first Executive Council, Sewell was asked by Browne to form a government.
This means that in some cases, when a search is found to be unreasonable or unlawful, evidence retrieved during the search may still be admitted if excluding it would not be proportionate to the breach.
In July 2007, the NZFSA was separated from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry to form a new Public Service Department.
Such clerks are sometimes required to serve more than one governmental unit, due to the often overlapping jurisdictions that exist in Illinois.
Governor-General On 21 March 1996, Hardie Boys was appointed by Queen Elizabeth II, Queen of New Zealand on the advice of Prime Minister Jim Bolger, as the Governor-General of New Zealand.
In 2000, Byers introduced "integrated offender management", a computerised system which was designed to aid in greatly reducing reoffending.
The company was responsible for milling of kauri, mining, and developing farms on Great Barrier Island, along with the establishment of Port Fitzroy as a coaling station.
The Canadian government announced in April that former prime minister Jean Chrétien would be Canada's representative to the organisation.
Former Prime Ministers, former Speakers of the House of Representatives, former Chief Justices, and members of the Privy Council.
However, Atkinson also failed to win the confidence of parliament, and Stout and Vogel supplanted him and remained in power for the next three years.
He represented Wellington at a provincial level from 1879 to 1885, and was a member of the first New Zealand national side, which toured New South Wales, in 1884, playing in eight matches (none of which were internationals).
While serving in Samara, Russia in 1917, he met Esther Mary White, a former teacher from Philadelphia; they eventually worked together until they left Russia in 1919.
During her premiership, Ardern made 27 international trips to 21 sovereign countries and to two associated states and one dependent territory of New Zealand.
Its previous stated mission was to "...raise New Zealand into the OECD’s Top 10 countries in information and communications technologies with a special focus on communications...".
Incoming social welfare minister Steve Maharey criticised Rankin's personal and management style as chief executive in 1999, and Wintringham chose not to reappoint Rankin to the role in 2001.
Applicants to the positions are usually required to have graduated with a law degree and have performed well in their studies.
Operational security matters are handled by other groups, including the Defence Force, the Ministry of Defence, the Security Intelligence Service, the Government Communications Security Bureau and Police.
History From 1841 to 1853 the Postmaster-General was a civil servant, responsible to the Postmaster-General of New South Wales (1841–42) then the Postmaster-General of Great Britain (1842–53).
In the subsequent election, the coalition won 54.0% of the popular vote, compared to 34.3% for Labour.
Edward was Prince of Wales between 8 December 1841 and 22 January 1901 (59 years, 45 days); Charles held the title between 26 July 1958 and 8 September 2022 (64 years, 44 days).
In 2010, the then chief executive, Ernie Newman, announced his retirement after the association's lobbying for government regulation of mobile termination rates was successful.
He continued working at the Public Trust offering legal support to the chief executive during the Public Trust's transformation from a government department to a Crown entity.
Many of these, which included bus companies, diagnostic laboratories, public works divisions and property investment companies, were privatised.
He distributed food and money to the needy in France, Albania, Montenegro and Russia, and was able to use his organisational and agricultural skills to assist in the farming recovery and the relief of refugees.
Tuchman noted in The Guns of August, his funeral, held on 20 May 1910, marked "the greatest assemblage of royalty and rank ever gathered in one place and, of its kind, the last".
He was named Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG), which was conferred in 1881 for his services on behalf of the International Exhibit in Melbourne in 1880.
See also Sustainability in New Zealand Environment of New Zealand References External links Ministry for the Environment Archived 2009-10-09 at the Wayback Machine - Govt3 page South, Gill (31 October 2009).
The New Zealand Command and Staff College provides professional military education to New Zealand Defence Force officers which prepares officers for command and staff appointments.
Some vessels are used by the New Zealand Police, but are not within the Auckland or Wellington Maritime Units.
Regular elections to the New Zealand House of Representatives have been held since the first in 1853.
A lawyer and jurist by profession, Hardie Boys was put forward as governor-general by Prime Minister Jim Bolger, in part for his understanding of constitutional law.
His remaining years were punctuated with appearances before the courts, and periods in Rotoroa Inebriates' Institution, Mount Eden prison, and Porirua Hospital.
The judges of the Māori Land Court are appointed by the governor-general on the recommendation of the minister for Māori Development.
Ian Kuperus Ian Kuperus, an accountant and former IRD employee, is credited with coming up with the idea of tax pooling.
Ministers The following members served in the Stafford ministry: See also New Zealand Government Notes References Wilson, Jim (1985) [First published in 1913].
It was founded in 1965 to foster legal research and links between the legal profession and the university.
Porritt was King's Surgeon to George VI from 1946 to 1952, and was Serjeant Surgeon to Queen Elizabeth II until 1967.
Crown entity boards should also facilitate clear and transparent monitoring, for example, by providing the minister and monitoring department with good information on which to make judgements about performance.
Given the agency's key influence and impact on fiscal policy, it has been accused by critics in recent years of inaccurate forecasts, regulatory capture and political partisanism, and accepting corporate gifts from the financial industry.
The college was established at Whenuapai, near Auckland, in 1950, as a school for junior officers of the RNZAF.
This includes determining the order in which the Government's legislative agenda will be addressed in the House.
The Telecommunications Users Association of New Zealand (TUANZ) represents corporate and individual end users of telecommunications in New Zealand.
The ceremony was officiated by First Minister Mark Drakeford who first had the Wales Herald Thomas Lloyd read the proclamation in English, and then had the Lord Lieutenant of South Glamorgan Morfudd Meredith read it in Welsh.
The National Party has found itself either in government (alone or with the support of other parties) or in opposition to Labour-led governments.
She was a retired mycologist, formerly at the Cawthron Institute, and elected first female Fellow of the Royal Society of New Zealand in 1936.
Background Governor Grey, upon the fall of the Domett Ministry, attempted to convince Edward Stafford to form a replacement Cabinet; he refused and Grey went to William Fox, who recommended Frederick Whitaker.
Section 13 limits the term of office to five years, though this term may be further reduced in the Order in Council in which the appointment is made.
The New Zealand Geographic Board succeeded an honorary Geographical Advisory Board that had been set up in 1924 under the direction of the Minister of Land.
List of parliaments Key for political party colours (see also: List of political parties in New Zealand) See also List of New Zealand governments References == Footnotes ==
The Solicitor-General – Una Jagose (16 February 2016) The Clerk of the Parliament of New Zealand – David Wilson (6 July 2015) The Clerk of the Executive Council – Rachel Hayward (2 November 2022) Chief executives of public service and non-public service departments.
The UK itself updated its nationality law to reflect the more modest boundaries of its remaining territory and possessions with the British Nationality Act 1981, which redefined British subject to no longer also mean Commonwealth citizen.
On 1 July 2012, the department was merged into the new Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment.
Prime Minister Chris Hipkins who took the office of Prime Minister of New Zealand on 25 January 2023 made his first prime ministerial trip to meet with his counter-part Prime Minister of Australia, Anthony Albanese on 7 February 2023 in Canberra, Australia.
George Charles Cecil Black (21 November 1903 – 17 October 1932) was a member of the House of Representatives for Motueka electorate, in the South Island of New Zealand, initially as a representative of the United Party and from early 1931 as an Independent.
In a statement on 4 May, the Chief Executive said that “the RMA has become a litigious, cumbersome, and complex piece of legislation.
The office is often considered to be one of the more distinguished ministerial posts, and has at times been counted as the most senior role below that of the prime minister.
Charities Services is a division of the Department of Internal Affairs and has an independent five-person Board to make decisions about registering or deregistering charities.
In British Columbia, the clerk is often referred to as the corporate officer of the municipal government, as established in that province's community charter legislation.
Council-controlled organisations (CCOs) and council-controlled trading organisations in New Zealand are what were formerly known as local-authority trading enterprises (LATEs).
The European Commission is working on further improving efficiency and transparency in government procurement in the EU with its current public procurement strategy.
In 1984, Members of the Royal Victorian Order, fourth class, were redesignated as Lieutenants of the Royal Victorian Order (LVO).
New Zealand is currently permitted to send 454 tonnes of high quality beef a year to the United Kingdom at a 20 per cent duty.
2022 See also Foreign relations of New Zealand List of international trips made by Winston Peters as Minister of Foreign Affairs of New Zealand Notes == References ==
The Waitangi Tribunal recommended that the Government improve data collection, improve engagement with the Māori community, and provided better support for ongoing vaccination efforts, testing, contact tracing, and support for Māori infected with COVID-19.
Conventions New Zealand has ratified several important international anti-corruption conventions such as the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions and the United Nations Convention against Corruption.
The Waitangi Tribunal is a permanent commission of inquiry established under the Treaty of Waitangi Act 1975.
In the 1990 Queen's Birthday Honours, Titter was appointed a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George, for services to business management and the community.
It was administered by the Ministry of Social Development until February 2011, when it became part of the Department of Internal Affairs.
The minister is also responsible for coordinating significant Māori/Crown events, ensuring engagement between the government and Māori is meaningful, and providing ministerial oversight of Te Arawhiti, the Office of Māori Crown Relations.
Walter Johnston later left the ministry to return to his own private business and was replaced with Edwin Mitchelson.
Black was expelled from the United Party the day after voting against the Finance Bill in March 1931, saying that "no genuine supporter of the late Prime Minister", Sir Joseph Ward, could uphold such measures.
Holyoake also had a very close and somewhat paternalistic friendship with Marilyn Waring, National's youngest female MP during her tenure.
Jo Moir, "New Zealand's top UN diplomat and his posh New York apartment", stuff.co.nz, 26 June 2015.
The fourth Fox ministry was a responsible government which held power in New Zealand from March to April 1873.
The architects had adapted a Brutalist Modernist building into a modern government workplace while respecting "the muscular form of the original building".
It was also the final component of the "Continuous Ministry", a series of conservative governments between 1876 and 1891.
In 2001, Wintringham was sued in the Employment Court for NZ$1.2 million by former Work and Income New Zealand chief executive Christine Rankin.
She took leadership roles in the National Council of Women of New Zealand (NCWNZ), both at the local level in Auckland and was part of the national organization's revitalization in 1918.
By this time, his mother and two sisters had also immigrated to New Zealand to join them in Stratford.
Gerard van Bohemen is a New Zealand judge and a former Permanent Representative of New Zealand to the United Nations (UN) in New York.
Procedures and procurement methodologies are covered by these regulations, along with arrangements for handling queries and complaints, and supervision and inspection, and the Implementing Regulations also pay greater attention to transparency and public participation than did previous arrangements.
The Office of the Clerk is a politically independent organisation, providing services to Parliament, as distinct from services to the Government, and providing services to members in their parliamentary roles rather than in their party or electorate capacities.
In the 1937 New Year Honours, he was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire, and the 1949 King's Birthday Honours, he was promoted to Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire, in recognition of his service as under-secretary of Internal Affairs.
The first Atkinson ministry handed in their resignations on 13 September 1876 and were immediately reappointed with the exception of John Hall, thus becoming officially the second Atkinson ministry.
Background Atkinson took over from the government of Julius Vogel, who recommended him to the governor on condition that Atkinson appoint him Agent-General in London.
Pyke was also a journalist, and wrote two novels about life on the goldfields, Wild Will Enderby (1873) and The Adventures of George Washington Pratt (1874).
George VI was forced to buy from Edward the royal residences of Balmoral Castle and Sandringham House, as these were private properties and did not pass to him automatically.
The New Zealand Command and Staff College (NZCSC) is the premier educational institute for the New Zealand Defence Force (NZDF) and is located at Trentham Military Camp, Upper Hutt (near Wellington).
Wilson's other postings in Asia were to Bangkok and, from 2001 to 2005 in Hong Kong where he served as New Zealand's consul-general.
She was Deputy Secretary of the Cabinet from 2003 to 2008 and Secretary of the Cabinet from March 2008 to November 2013.
Arundel, PIC was based in London with its trading activities in the Pacific that involved mining phosphate rock on Banaba (then known as Ocean Island) and Nauru.
From 1913 the boards no longer had Māori membership with just two members, the judge and registrar of the Land Court.
The Office of the Clerk of the House of Representatives (Māori: Te Tari o te Manahautū o te Whare Māngai) is a New Zealand public sector organisation.
McDonnell also umpired one first-class match in 1879 as well as the matches between Canterbury and the touring English team in 1882 and between Otago and the touring Australians in 1886.
Previously, the Executive Council had functioned as an advisory group to the governor, and ministerial functions were performed by appointed officials, not politicians.
It had lasted only a fortnight, with James William Thomson moving a vote of no confidence against Stout; Harry Atkinson then formed his fourth ministry.
Most of the spouses of governors-general have been content to be background figures providing the office-holder with support.
Further reforms have changed this, however – the Health Funding Authority has been re-absorbed into the Ministry of Health, and the modern District Health Boards, while not part of the Ministry, are considered a responsibility of the Minister of Health.
He had diplomatic postings in Canberra and, as deputy head of mission to the European Union, in Brussels from 1999 to 2002.
A decision that is taken in the State Council under the sovereign's leadership is considered to be a royal decree.
PALM 6 The sixth forum of the Pacific Island Leaders Meeting (PALM 6) took place between May 25–26, 2012.
In 2014, an independent review of tax pooling rules carried out via PwC found that the system is operating efficiently and is valued by taxpayers.
Committee members The formal name of the Valabh Committee was the “Consultative Committee on the Taxation of Income from Capital”.
During his time as Ambassador, Corner oversaw a state visit to New Zealand by President Lyndon Johnson in 1967, and a state visit by Prime Minister Keith Holyoake to Washington.
Sir Theodore Rigg (6 April 1888 – 22 October 1972) was a New Zealand agricultural chemist and scientific administrator.
He was most careful to not comment on controversial matters, and had a good working relationship with all three.
With regard to finances, the Ministry pledged to make £240,000 in budget savings, and succeeded in returning to a surplus in 1866.
There was suspected asbestos inside some of the buildings that were alight, causing it to feed the fire.
In the 1939 King's Birthday Honours, Tyndall was appointed a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George.
References External links Royal Succession Bill 99-1 (2013) Bills Digest: Royal Succession Bill Royal Succession Act 2013, reprint as at 26 March 2015
The Treasury now monitors the performance of Infracom and provides advice to Ministers on the Commission's long-term infrastructure strategy and its other recommendations.
The Leader of the Opposition in the House of Representatives Chris Hipkins (27 November 2023) Leaders, including co-leaders and joint leaders, of political parties represented in the House of Representatives, other than Ministers of the Crown.
From the outset, Robert Stout served as Prime Minister as well as Attorney-General whilst Julius Vogel held the post of Minister of Finance.
Parliamentary sovereignty is a concept in the constitutional law of Westminster systems that holds that parliament has absolute sovereignty and is supreme over all other government institutions.
The Minister for Māori Crown Relations is a minister in the New Zealand Government responsible for overseeing Te Arawhiti, the Office of Māori Crown Relations.
Role of Crown Solicitor The Crown Solicitor network began in the 1920s when P S K Macassey resigned from the Crown Law Office to enter private practice.
He was inducted into the Consumers for World Trade Hall of Fame for his services in the promotion of free trade.
Later in his career he held various positions in Southern Africa, including two terms as Governor of the Cape Colony.
In 1980, Lochore alleged during a Parliamentary committee that at least 15 Soviet agents had operated in several government departments including the Ministries of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Industry, Defence, Justice and Health.
The repeal bill was then extended to cover capital punishment as well; the government had the same policy to always remit, and it was felt that both had to be handled in the same way.
Honours and awards In the 1977 Queen's Silver Jubilee and Birthday Honours, Low was appointed a Knight Bachelor.
Pilott was on the board of the United Fire Brigades’ Association, retiring from her position in 2021.
These meetings are chaired by the monarch or, if he is ill or abroad, crown prince (the monarch's heir).
Knollys enlisted in the 32nd (Cornwall) Regiment of Foot in 1866 and in September 1868 was made a Lieutenant.
During his time in Indonesia, he witnessed the 30 September coup attempt and the rise of Suharto's New Order.
The junior barrister on a case could not disagree with the direction determined by the senior barrister.
Career Wilson joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1971, and remained in the public service until his retirement in 2006.
Lieutenant General Donald Stuart McIver, (22 January 1936 – 22 August 2016) was a New Zealand military officer who was the Chief of the General Staff (1987–1989) and the director of the New Zealand Security Intelligence Service (1991–1999).
Authors, who include Judges, academics, and senior members of the New Zealand legal profession, were appointed by the founding Editor-in-Chief, Lord Cooke of Thorndon.
It was formed in December 2020 from the merger of Auckland Tourism, Events and Economic Development (ATEED) and Regional Facilities Auckland.
MAF (through NZFSA) managed New Zealand's participation in Codex Alimentarius and set strategic priorities which ensure that Codex standards have the widest possible application.
The Ministry of Defence (Māori: Manatū Kaupapa Waonga) is the public service department of New Zealand responsible for advising the government on strategic defence policy, acquiring military equipment to meet defence capability and conducting audits and assessments of the New Zealand Defence Force.
16 other [sic] Commonwealth countries do now." Dennis Canavan, leader of Yes Scotland, disagreed and said a separate, post-independence referendum should be held on the matter.
See also Sixth Labour Government of New Zealand Cabinet of New Zealand Foreign relations of New Zealand List of international prime ministerial trips made by Jacinda Ardern List of international prime ministerial trips made by Anthony Albanese == References ==
Corner provided the leading intellectual arguments in favour of decolonisation of Tokelau, the Cook Islands, Niue, and Western Samoa.
On 1 June, the Wellington Battalion moved into the front lines, taking over Courtney's Post, previously held by the Australian 4th Brigade.
After she was involuntarily outed by the New Zealand Truth in 1978, Holyoake worked with Prime Minister, Robert Muldoon, to quickly downplay the tabloid reports and to protect their friend.
During the Crimean War, for example, Sir George Cathcart held a dormant commission to take command of the British Army in Crimea if Lord Raglan should be killed or disabled.
"Govt" stands for government and "3" stands for the three pillars of sustainability: environmental, social and economic.
In 1930 he was appointed as Commissioner of Unemployment where he managed the government response to the Great Depression before he left the government statistician role in 1932.
Byrne Waterman Award for his "outstanding contribution to maritime history," in a ceremony at The Kendall Whaling Museum, Massachusetts.
This expansion enhances the visibility of publicly accessible lands, aiding in the promotion of outdoor activities and ensuring better public awareness of available recreational areas.
Depreciation The committee's recommendations resulted in a new tax depreciation regime introduced in 1993.
Their theories have been broadly defined as "see[ing] the state as a corporation with no authority over free citizens".
In practice, decisions made by the King-in-Council are almost always the formal approval to decisions made by the cabinet, a subcommittee of the privy or executive council that includes the senior ministers of the Crown and often meets without the monarch or his local representative present.
Tamahere coolstore fire, 2008 – on 5 April 2008, Hamilton firefighters were called out to a fire alarm activation at the Icepak Coolstores southeast of the city at Tamahere.
In the 1996 New Year Honours, Hardie Boys was appointed a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George.
The process of transformation from an empire to a voluntary association of independent states, known as the Commonwealth, gathered pace after the Second World War.
Matthew Palmer is author of The Treaty of Waitangi in New Zealand's Law and Constitution, which was published in November 2008.
Zhenhua's database had been leaked to the American academic and China expert Professor Chris Balding, who passed the information to Australian cyber security firm Internet 2.0.
It was opened in 1973 and at 52 metres (171 ft) high, it was the tallest building in Christchurch until it was succeeded by the University of Canterbury's library building a year later.
Until 1999 it was traditional for the Prime Minister, senior and long-serving Ministers of the Crown, the Chief Justice and Judges of the Court of Appeal to be appointed to the Privy Council.
The Minister is also responsible to Parliament for ensuring the Department of Corrections carries out its functions properly and efficiently.
These vessels such as the Waikato's 'Ranger' are often smaller and used in areas with no other emergency response on the body of water.
Top of mind at the conference was the challenge to create a system resilient to shocks and able to adapt to and anticipate key barriers to achieving the sector's shared ambitions.
Following his funeral, he was buried in the Symonds Street cemetery, Auckland, on Tuesday, 13 September.
Grey’s own policy towards Māori was largely adopted by the ministry: troops invaded the Waikato intending to confiscate large tracts of land from the Māori iwi, which would then be sold on to military settlers recruited from Britain.
Despite the size of its victory, Labour won only 46.1% of the popular vote; the government vote was split between Reform and United, and both parties lost votes on the right to the Democrats and the Country Party.
The Board has all the rights, duties, responsibilities and obligations necessary for the registration of plumbers, gasfitters and drainlayers for the purpose of improving, promoting and protecting the public health, especially in the matter of sanitary plumbing, gasfitting and drainlaying.
He was Race Relations Conciliator from 1992 to 1995; the title changed during his tenure to Race Relations Commissioner.
Like their Canadian "Detaxer" predecessors and American sovereign citizens, Canadian freemen on the land put a strain on public resources, notably using paper terrorism by filing numerous documents written in incoherent language, clogging the court system.
72 MPs are elected directly in single-member electoral districts and further seats are filled by list MPs based on each party's share of the party vote.
Historian Michael King (a friend of Lochore and his wife Dorothy) disputed these criticisms, stating that Lochore was "at worst, a voluble and volatile eccentric of conservative inclination." Notes == References ==
New Zealand is the latest jurisdiction to include such rules in legislation following in the path of Norway, the EU, South Africa, South Korea, Japan, and Australia.
In January 2025, the Officers of Parliament Committee recommended that Allen be appointed as the next Chief Ombudsman.
Prior to becoming the Permanent Representative to the UN, van Bohemen was a Deputy Secretary of the Ministry.
But it made no difference to re-offending rates by prisoners, with one criminologist Dr Greg Newbold saying the system had become "a large and expensive failure".
Following the sudden death of Lieutenant General Sir James Grierson on 17 August, Fergusson briefly assumed temporary command of II Corps, the 5th Division's parent formation, as the senior officer on the spot.
The programme was set up under a Labour led government in 2003 to encourage government departments to minimise waste and adopt sustainable practices.
It also suggested that an additional penalty for underpayments may be required to ensure the right incentives were in place to encourage compliance from taxpayers if the underpayment rate was reduced.
Education Cribb is a graduate of Cambridge University and has a PhD from Victoria University of Wellington in Public Policy that investigated the contracting relationship between governments and NGOs which completed in part as a New Zealand Federation of Graduate Women Fellow.
Prior to 1988 a similar body, the National Mapping Council (NMC), had coordinated cooperative Commonwealth, State and Northern Territory mapping programs since 1945.
She also set up a lobby group, the Protect the Brains trust, which spread nationwide and put pressure on the government for a bicycle helmet law.
History The mandatory helmet law had its genesis in the late 1980s when Rebecca Oaten, dubbed the "helmet lady" in the media, started a campaign advocating for compulsory helmets.
This Ministry presented a high number of bills which were withdrawn or defeated, and finally in 1872 it was defeated in a confidence motion by Edward Stafford – however, Stafford's attempted takeover was not successful and most of Fox's ministers returned in the Waterhouse Ministry.
The minister was the responsible minister for the Department of Labour, which was established one year before the first appointment was made.
The group is headed by the chief executive of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Ben King.
Benjamin Disraeli was appointed Prime Minister of the United Kingdom for a second time by Queen Victoria after William Ewart Gladstone's government was defeated in the 1874 general election.
Bute, a Tory, was made Northern Secretary in March 1761, and following Pitt's resignation, the ministry is otherwise referred to as the Bute–Newcastle coalition.
Shawcross lent his name to a Parliamentary principle, in a defence of his conduct regarding an illegal strike, that the Attorney-General "is not to be put, and is not put, under pressure by his colleagues in the matter" of whether or not to establish criminal proceedings.
Cabinet January 1828 – November 1830 Full list of ministers Members of the Cabinet are indicated by bold face.
With the resignation in January 1770 of Grafton himself, Lord Camden, and Lord Granby, Chatham's remaining adherents in the cabinet, the Grafton ministry was replaced by the North ministry under the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Lord North, which was to last until 1782.
In February 1963, Fletcher-Cooke had to resign his role as a junior Home Office minister after an eighteen year old borstal boy named Anthony Turner was arrested for speeding in east London.
He entered the government under Winston Churchill as Comptroller of the Household in October 1944, a post he held until the coalition government was disbanded in May 1945.
The government was led by Bonar Law and Stanley Baldwin, appointed respectively as Prime Minister by King George V.
Emma Reynolds was appointed Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, replacing Steve Reed.
As no separate Chancellor of the Exchequer had been appointed, Denman held the post pro tempore by virtue of being Lord Chief Justice.
While not an official coalition, it would be the first time in both Scottish and UK history that Green politicians would be in government.
Following his resignation, the environment portfolio was combined with that of rural development, planning was added to the transport portfolio, and the sport and culture portfolio was given Deputy Minister Allan Wilson without a promotion to minister.
History The North ministry resigned on 22 March 1782 after losing the confidence of Parliament following the British defeat at the siege of Yorktown during the American War of Independence.
Charles Townshend, 2nd Viscount Townshend, was appointed Secretary of State for the Northern Department by George I of Great Britain in September 1714.
The 2005 general election saw the Labour Party win a historic third successive term in power, though their majority now stood at 66 seats—compared to 167 four years earlier—and they failed to gain any new seats.
December 1933 – Stanley Baldwin ceases to be Lord Privy Seal, and his successor in that office is not in the cabinet.
The First Fisher ministry succeeded the Second Deakin ministry, which dissolved on 13 November 1908 after Labour withdrew their support and Alfred Deakin was forced to resign.
No Australians were shot for cowardice or desertion, but it was clear that their troops had been as effective as any others in the war.
5) extended provision of health insurance to unemployed males whose entitlement had run out, while the Poor Prisoners' Defence Act 1930 (20 & 21 Geo.
Among his appointments was the former Welsh Liberal Democrat leader Kirsty Williams, who became Minister for Education.
Fate The change of leader from Margaret Thatcher to John Major saw a revival in Tory support, with the double-digit lead in the opinion polls for the Labour Party being replaced by a narrow Conservative one by the turn of 1991.
As a result, William Ewart Gladstone's Liberal Party formed a minority government that relied upon Irish Nationalist support.
The government also strengthened a Fair Wages Resolution, with a clause that required all employers getting government contracts to recognise the rights of their workers to join trade unions.
Chatham was ill with gout for long periods, and his government struggled to fulfill its various goals.
Thurtle's greatest achievement in Parliament was to bring about the abolition of the death penalty for cowardice or desertion in the British Army.
Fate A general election was called for 11 June 1987, and the Conservatives triumphed for the third election in succession.
The government was opposed by the Labour Party, Lloyd George and his Liberals and the New Party of Sir Oswald Mosley.
James Drake, who died in 1941, was the last surviving member of the First Deakin ministry; Drake was also the last surviving minister of the Barton government and the Reid government.
George Mathers, 1st Baron Mathers (28 February 1886 – 26 September 1965) was a Scottish trade unionist and Labour Party politician.
Jeremy Miles and Julie James returned to cabinet following their resignations under Gething, and as health cabinet secretary and Counsel General-designate respectively, with the latter replacing Jones.
The Housing Act 1938 provided subsidies aimed at encouraging slum clearance, and maintained rent control.
However, this the Whigs felt disinclined to give, joining with the Irish radicals to defeat the Conservatives at every turn.
Dissolution On 7 March 1702, Parliament recieved word that the King was dying, and by the next day, he had been succeeded by Queen Anne.
Notes The Earl of Beaconsfield served as both First Lord of the Treasury and Lord Privy Seal from August 1876 to April 1878.
On 29 April, Yousaf announced his intention to resign as First Minister following the election of a new leader of the SNP.
It followed the resignation of Nicola Sturgeon as First Minister and Leader of the Scottish National Party (SNP) on 15 February, triggering a leadership contest that Yousaf won.
It was succeeded by the Second Portland ministry, headed by William Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland.
Two members of the National Assembly were elected to the UK Parliament at the 2005 UK general election (David Davies and Peter Law) reducing the collective strength of the opposition for day-to-day business.
The Whig government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland that began in November 1830 and ended in November 1834 consisted of two ministries: the Grey ministry (from 1830 to July 1834) and then the first Melbourne ministry.
Following the eruption of a scandal involving the improper granting of land, Prior fired the two ministers implicated, David McEwen Eberts and Wilmer Cleveland Wells.
In December 1711 the government controversially dismissed John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough, a notional Tory but long supported by the Whigs, as Captain General and replaced him with the staunchly Tory Irish general James Butler, 1st Duke of Ormond.
The Minister of State for Social Care portfolio was downgraded to a Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State in 2016 under this ministry.
The Bath–Granville ministry, better known as the "short-lived" ministry, was a ministry of Patriot Whigs that existed briefly in February 1746.
She was subsequently appointed by Queen Elizabeth II on 18 May, and announced formation of a new Scottish National Party minority government.
Following negotiations with the Plaid Cymru leader, a second vote on 18 May saw Jones re-elected unopposed as First Minister, enabling him to begin the process of forming a minority government.
"Lloyd George's Premiership: A Study in 'Prime Ministerial Government'." Historical Journal 13#1 (1970): 130–57.
Within hours, it had been subverted, as a group of nine conflicting members took a lead in the conduct of business.
The Conservatives had been weakened by the defection of the Peelites, and many of the new Cabinet ministers were men of little experience.
October 1927 – Lord Cushendun succeeded Lord Cecil of Chelwood as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster March 1928 – Lord Hailsham (former Sir D.
Harold Harington Balfour, 1st Baron Balfour of Inchrye (1 November 1897 – 21 September 1988), was a Conservative Party politician in the United Kingdom, and a flying ace of the First World War.
It was in government from 29 December 1890 to 14 February 1901, when it was succeeded by the Throssell Ministry following the 1901 elections.
Formation On 9 April 1827 the Tory Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Robert Banks Jenkinson, 2nd Earl of Liverpool, suffered a cerebral haemorrhage.
The government dissolved on 19 May 2021, following the 2021 election to the 6th Scottish Parliament, which returned the SNP on seat short of a majority and Sturgeon later forming a third government with a deal with the Scottish Greens, creating a pro-independence majority.
23): Although the nominal leadership of the regency lay with John, Duke of Bedford (Gloucester's older brother), he spent most of his time ruling the English territories in France.
Jack McConnell was re-appointed as First Minister on 20 May 2003 and headed another Labour–Liberal Democrat coalition government.
References Chris Cook and John Stevenson, British Historical Facts 1760–1830 Joseph Haydn and Horace Ockerby, The Book of Dignities Notes
The second Deakin ministry succeeded the Reid ministry, which dissolved on 5 July 1905 following the resignation of George Reid after the Protectionists withdrew their support and gained support from the Labour Party.
For a period, as part of the prices and incomes standstill introduced by the government, local authorities were not permitted to raise rents.
On 28 October, the Fife Constabulary announced its launch of an investigation following complaints made against McLeish and he refused to answer questions from reporters.
He was at the wheel of Fletcher-Cooke's Austin Princess car with his permission but without insurance or a driving licence.
The New Zealand Accident Insurance Act 1899 provided the commissioner of life insurance with the powers to insure people against accidents, and could also insure employers from liability for accidents to any of their employees.
2nd Executive of Northern Ireland Junior Ministers References See also List of Northern Ireland Executives Members of the Northern Ireland Assembly elected in 2007
Widely seen as an important and significant ally for McConnell, Andy Kerr retained his cabinet position as Minister for Finance, whilst Mike Watson was removed from his cabinet position as Minister for Tourism.
Salmond's second cabinet was formed on 19 May 2011 and dissolved on 18 November 2014, following his resignation as first minister following the defeat of the Yes Scotland campaign in the 2014 Scottish independence referendum.
The Liberal Nationals had previously not held office in MacDonald's previous National Government, though two junior ministers appointed as Liberals had defected to them.
He was active in the trade union and labour movement from 1908, becoming President of the Carlisle Trades Council and Labour Party from 1917 to 1920.
In October 2018, Foster and DUP MPs again hosted their annual reception at the Conservative Party conference.
Thangam Debbonaire (Shadow Culture Secretary) lost her seat and Lisa Nandy was appointed to Cabinet in her place.
Appointment Cabinet Deputy ministers See also Shadow Cabinet (Wales) Members of the 5th Senedd 2018 Welsh Labour leadership election 2021 Senedd election == References ==
History Fox was a Whig by background, and North came from the nominal Tory Party; however, both had fallen out with the government of Lord Shelburne.
The Home Secretary Lord Shelburne was appointed to succeed him, but several members of the government refused to serve under him and resigned.
The Crown had suffered huge war debts, and there was general lack of leadership in the French territories which seemed to be slipping slowly but surely out of English hands.
Douglas Alexander enters the Cabinet as Secretary of State for Transport and Secretary of State for Scotland.
During its two years, the ministry confronted growing discontent in Britain's American colonies which were to lead to the American War of Independence breaking out in 1775.
January 1990 – Norman Fowler resigns as Secretary of State for Employment and is succeeded by Michael Howard.
In order to maintain a comfortable parliamentary majority, Grafton had drawn the Bedford Whigs (Earl Gower, Viscount Weymouth, and the Earl of Hillsborough) into the ministry at the end of 1767.
It is the first federal government in Australian history to be elected with a majority in the House of Representatives, as well as the first majority national Labor government in the world.
The ministry was replaced by the Reid ministry on 17 August 1904 after the Protectionist Party withdrew their support over the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill.
As a result of him becoming First Minister, he was appointed Keeper of the Great Seal of Scotland and to the Privy Council, earning the title 'The Right Honourable' for life.
This is a list of the principal holders of government office during the second premiership of the Charles Watson-Wentworth, 2nd Marquess of Rockingham for four months in 1782.
Following the 5 May 2011 elections to the fourth Northern Ireland Assembly the Democratic Unionist Party and Sinn Féin remained the two largest parties in the Assembly.
Ministers not in Cabinet Henry Seymour Conway – Commander-in-Chief of the Forces Henry Dundas – Treasurer of the Navy Sir George Yonge, 5th Baronet – Secretary at War Isaac Barré – Paymaster of the Forces Charles Manners, 4th Duke of Rutland – Lord Steward of the Household Notes == References ==
The Canningites, led by George Canning and then the Viscount Goderich as First Lord of the Treasury, governed the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland from 1827 until 1828.
Lord Clarendon served concurrently as Lord Privy Seal and Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster between October 1840 and June 1841.
He served in the Second World War as a Lieutenant-Colonel in the British Army, was twice Mentioned in Despatches and awarded the Croix de Guerre.
Julie James was formally appointed as Counsel General by approval of the Senedd on 17 September 2024.
Early life Fletcher-Cooke was born into a professional London family, though one that was financially diminished because of his father's death from wounds received in the Gallipoli Campaign.
He has at all times shown himself to be a leader of exceptional dash and ability, and offensive patrols led by him have constantly attacked enemy formations with marked gallantry and determination".
The following ministers were then appointed to the positions, and served until the end of the Ministry.
Henry Seymour Conway succeeds him as Northern Secretary, and the Duke of Richmond succeeds Conway as Southern Secretary.
History Upon Queen Anne's accession to the English throne in 1702, she appointed Lord Godolphin as Lord High Treasurer and the Duke of Marlborough as Master-General of the Ordnance (among other numerous appointments).
The second Drakeford government was the Labour-led government formed after the 2021 Senedd Election on 6 May 2021, with Mark Drakeford re-appointed as First Minister without opposition on 12 May 2021.
King William IV had dismissed the Whig government of Lord Melbourne on 14 November 1834 and asked Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington, to form a government but he declined, instead recommending Sir Robert Peel.
In an interview on 11 June, Corbyn stated that he expected another election to be held within a year.
THurtle was a supporter of the League Against Imperialism, and he visited India in 1928 and met Gandhi.
He was elected as member of parliament (MP) for Birmingham Ladywood in 1931 with a 14,000 majority, holding the seat until his defeat in 1945.
A reorganised version of the council, reduced to only 30 members, would control all government positions.
In November 2002, McConnell claimed that teachers in Scotland should have the ability to move between primary and secondary schools to assist in the transition of children from primary school to secondary school.
Upon Lord Stanhope's death, Robert Walpole, widely considered the first true Prime Minister of Great Britain, returned to head the government.
In the following year, his first general election as Leader resulted in defeat as Wilson's Labour government increased its majority.
It is perhaps in more common use in those countries, which both have official catalogues of their respective ministries, whereas Britain has no such catalogue.
Notes Lord John Russell served as Leader of the House of Commons from December 1852 to February 1855.
The third Jones government was a Labour–Liberal Democrat coalition government formed after the 2016 general election in Wales.
The nominal head of the ministry was Spencer Compton, 1st Earl of Wilmington, until his death in 1743.
Between May 2016 and December 2018 the senior tier of ministers were referred to as Cabinet Secretaries and the junior tier as Ministers, from the formation of this government they reverted to their previous titles of Cabinet Ministers and Deputy Ministers respectively.
A young William Ewart Gladstone held office as a Junior Lord of the Treasury, his first governmental post in a ministerial career that would span for the next sixty years.
3 Barrington Wood had served in these portfolios since 10 September 1900 as part of the Forrest Ministry.
Notes See also Edwardian era List of British governments References Further reading Blewett, Neal (1972).
The Truss ministry was formed from the 2019 Parliament of the United Kingdom, as a Conservative majority government.
His vigorous defence of his long-time friend Lord Denning, who had been labelled as "geriatric" by a Labour MP, was one of his last acts in the Commons.
Lord Clarendon was impeached by the House of Commons and forced to flee; the Duke of Albemarle sold his position to George Villiers, 2nd Duke of Buckingham; and Sir George Carteret simply left his position, eventually being forced out of the House two years later.
The other name that cropped up for the two roles was the new Labour Party Chair and Deputy Leader, Harriet Harman, who made a return to Cabinet after nine years as Leader of the House of Commons and Lord Privy Seal and was given the additional brief of Minister for Women and Equality.
On 4 October 1954 Somervell became a Lord of Appeal in Ordinary and, as a Law Lord, he received a life peerage as Baron Somervell of Harrow, of Ewelme in the County of Oxford.
Jenny Randerson, Acting Deputy First Minister from July 2001 to June 2002 in addition to the culture portfolio.
Ben Macpherson rejoined the government as Minister for Higher and Further Education (Dey's former role).
The new government was immediately on the defensive and in January 1784 was defeated on a motion of no confidence.
In the latter post, he served for nine years during which he oversaw crises such as the Abdication Crisis of Edward VIII.
By 1795 half the British Army was in the West Indies (with the largest contingent in Saint-Domingue), with the rest being divided among Europe, India and North America.
He was educated at Malvern College and Peterhouse, Cambridge, where he was president of the Cambridge Union in 1936.
The mass dismissal was the most extensive Cabinet reorganisation without a change in ruling party in postwar British political history, exceeding the seven Cabinet ministers dismissed in the "Night of the Long Knives" of 1962, and was dubbed the "Night of the Blond Knives" by The Sun.
It is led by Michelle O'Neill of Sinn Féin as First Minister and Emma Little-Pengelly of the DUP as deputy First Minister.
When kings left England to oversee other parts of the Angevin Empire, the justiciar functioned as his viceroy or regent.
The First Commissioner of Woods and Forests, Lord Lincoln, enters the Cabinet, while Sir Edward Knatchbull, the Paymaster, leaves it.
On 30 January 2024, leader of the DUP Jeffrey Donaldson announced that the DUP would allow the formation of the institutions on the condition that new legislation was passed by the UK House of Commons.
After it was revealed that Priti Patel held unsanctioned meetings with Israeli politicians and officials whilst on a family holiday, thereby violating the Ministerial Code, she was forced to resign from her post of International Development Secretary on 8 November 2017.
The Watson ministry succeeded the First Deakin ministry, which dissolved on 27 April 1904 after Labour withdrew their support and Alfred Deakin was forced to resign.
George I Timeline See also Chief minister of France Timeline of chief ministers and prime ministers of England, Great Britain and the United Kingdom Notes == References ==
The result of these events was to demonstrate beyond doubt that the "Great Commoner" (as Pitt was familiarly known) was indispensable to the formation of a ministry strong enough to prosecute a major war.
Alun Davies was sacked from the government on 8 July 2014, his responsibilities were temporarily restructured with some going to Rebecca Evans who joined the government as a junior minister.
In the 1892 general election, the Conservative Party, led by Robert Gascoyne-Cecil, 3rd Marquess of Salisbury, won the most seats but not an overall majority.
The Third Executive (16 May 2011 – 6 May 2016) was, under the terms of the Northern Ireland Act 1998, a power-sharing coalition.
In the Clement Attlee's post-war Labour government, he was Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Education.
Gillian Martin was appointed as Acting Cabinet Secretary for Net Zero and Energy, and Alasdair Allan was appointed as Acting Minister for Climate Action.
Following the vote to leave at the EU referendum on the morning of 24 June, Cameron said that he would resign as prime minister after a new Leader of the Conservative Party was chosen after the party conference in the autumn.
Despite the major concerns to Britain's defences when the navy mutinied Pitt remained calm and in control.
It also happened at a time when poverty and unemployment amongst working-class British people was at very high levels.
Family Lord Mancroft married Diana Lloyd, daughter of Lieutenant-Colonel Horace Lloyd, on 8 May 1951.
Hugh Henry left the post of Deputy Minister for Health and Community Care on 9 May 2002, and took up the post of Deputy Minister for Social Justice.
The office of First Minister was filled by Jim Wallace until the election of a new leader was elected.
Soon after this resignation came the emergence of the Zinoviev letter, which has become part of Labour Party mythology.
The election was won by Carwyn Jones who was confirmed leader of Welsh Labour on 1 December 2009 and as First Minister on 9 December 2009 by the Welsh Assembly.
He served as Under-Secretary of State for Scotland in Winston Churchill's caretaker government from May to July 1945.
In return, they (and the wives of male contributors) were eligible for flat-rate pensions, sickness benefit, unemployment benefit, and funeral benefit.
After three years, Williams was appointed a provincial lecturer for the college, though the Great War disrupted the college and left him unemployed.
He remains First Commissioner of Woods and Forests July 1850: Lord Truro succeeds Lord Cottenham as Lord Chancellor.
Cabinet December 1868 – February 1874 Notes † The Earl de Grey was created the Marquess of Ripon in 1871.
The breakaway Liberal Nationals supported the National Government after their formation in September 1931 but none received posts in the new administration.
"The Struggle for Mastery in Britain: Lloyd George versus Asquith, December 1916." Journal of British Studies 18#1 (1978): 131–156.
As the name of the ministry would suggest, Lord Clarendon (earlier Lord Hyde) was, in effect, the leader of the government.
December 1998 – Peter Mandelson is dismissed from the cabinet over a secret home loan he received from Geoffrey Robinson.
Entering government, McConnell vowed that his key policy objectives would relate to schools, health services, jobs, crime and transport which he dubbed "the peoples priorities".
He was educated at Possilpark Primary School, Cumbrae Primary School and North Kelvinside Secondary School in Maryhill (now Cleveden Secondary School).
The first Drakeford government was a Labour-led government formed after the resignation of Carwyn Jones as First Minister of Wales on 12 December 2018, and the subsequent appointment of Mark Drakeford in his place following a leadership contest.
Harrowby's successor as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster is not in the Cabinet 1857 – Matthew Talbot Baines, the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, enters the Cabinet.
The National Government of 1935–1937 was formed by Stanley Baldwin on his reappointment as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by King George V, following the resignation of Ramsay MacDonald in June 1935.
In practice, however, he was forced to share power with Cardinal Henry Beaufort, who held the position of Lord Chancellor and led a regency council composed of England's prominent magnates.
The following year, after the Duke of Shrewsbury left the government, he took responsibility for the Southern Department as well.
The first Salmond government, which was sworn in on 17 May 2007 at the start of the 3rd Scottish Parliament, was an SNP minority government.
It succeeded the Rason Ministry on 7 May 1906 after Rason resigned to accept an appointment as Agent-General for Western Australia in London.
He was political columnist for the Scottish Daily Record from 1955 to 1964, and studied under Henry Kissinger at Harvard University in 1963.
On three occasions during one month he has destroyed one hostile machine and driven down two others completely out of control.
November 1990 – At the start of the month, Geoffrey Howe resigns and the title of Deputy Prime Minister is not reallocated.
Halifax is succeeded as Leader of the House of Lords by Lord Stanhope, who remains President of the Board of Education as well.
Lord Shawcross died on 10 July 2003 at home at Cowbeech, East Sussex, at the age of 101 and is buried in the churchyard of St Andrew's Church, Jevington, East Sussex.
History Following the defeat of the campaign for Scottish independence in a 2014 referendum, then First Minister Alex Salmond, who had arranged the referendum, announced that he would resign as Scottish National Party leader and first minister after a new leader was chosen.
The Asquith coalition ministry was the Government of the United Kingdom under the Liberal prime minister H.
July 1865 – Robert Rolfe, 1st Baron Cranworth succeeds Lord Westbury as Lord Chancellor The Earl Russell's Cabinet, October 1865 – June 1866 Changes February 1866: The Lord de Grey succeeds Sir Charles Wood as Secretary for India.
Sir Edward John Williams (1 July 1890 – 16 May 1963) was a British Labour Party politician and diplomat.
Appointment Following a vote in the Assembly to nominate an individual to become First Minister on 11 May 2016 both Jones and Plaid Cymru's Leanne Wood tied on 29 votes each and another vote was automatically scheduled for the following week.
The second Peel ministry was formed by Sir Robert Peel in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in 1841.
It was led by the two Pelham brothers in Parliament, Prime Minister Henry Pelham in the House of Commons and Thomas Pelham-Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle in the House of Lords.
He is succeeded at the Board of Trade by William Huskisson 1823 – Lord Maryborough, the Master of the Mint, leaves the Cabinet.
The Reid ministry succeeded the Watson ministry, which dissolved on 17 August 1904 after the Protectionist Party withdrew their support and Chris Watson was forced to resign.
He was a Member of Parliament across three different constituencies from 1931 to 1945, and from 1950 to 1974, and served in several ministerial roles in the 1940s and 1950s.
Personal life In 1950, he married Doreen Griffiths (1925-2018); the couple had two children, Janet and Wyn, Director of Music with New Zealand Opera.
The proposals were never shown to the Poles, nor to us, and, though they were announced in a German broadcast on Thursday night, Hitler did not wait to hear comments on them, but ordered his troops to cross the Polish frontier the next morning.
Forced to return to mining in 1917, he became checkweigher and in 1919 miners' agent to the Garw district of the South Wales Miners' Federation.
On 24 August, MacDonald agreed and formed a National Government composed of men from all parties with the specific aim of balancing the Budget and restoring confidence.
Former prime minister William Pitt the Younger reassumed the premiership of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in 1804, succeeding Henry Addington as First Lord of the Treasury and Chancellor of the Exchequer.
Constitutional convention in the Commons requires someone, even a member of the government, to fill the role even if there is no actual opposition.
The 6th Executive of Northern Ireland was appointed on 3 February 2024, following the 2022 election to the seventh Northern Ireland Assembly held on 5 May 2022 and the protracted negotiations leading up to the 2024 Northern Ireland Executive formation.
It succeeded the Throssell Ministry on 27 May 1901 after George Throssell's resignation as premier following the inconclusive result of the April 1901 state election.
This article details the third Thatcher ministry which she led at the invitation of Queen Elizabeth II from 1987 to 1990.
Clifford resigned over the in-fighting and retired from public life: as an open Roman Catholic he would, in any case, have been debarred by the Test Act 1673 from holding office in the future.
This government succeeded the national coalition which he had formed after he was first appointed prime minister on 10 May 1940.
Initially, the government was a continuation of the previous coalition administration but lost three Peelites (William Ewart Gladstone, Sir James Graham and Sidney Herbert) within a few weeks.
The Conservative majority of 21 seats was gradually eroded by a string of by-election defeats as well as the defection of one MP to Labour, and by the turn of 1997 the Conservatives were without a majority in the House of Commons.
Matt Hancock quit his post of Health Secretary on 26 June 2021 following the revelation that he had breached coronavirus social distancing guidance.
Changes August 1876: Beaconsfield succeeds the Earl of Malmesbury as Lord Privy Seal while remaining First Lord of the Treasury.
He represented mineworkers on the executive committee of the Lancashire and Cheshire Regional Council of Labour.
In May 2005, Bob Geldoff addressed the Scottish Parliament which he used as an opportunity to highlight the role McConnell can play "in addressing the issue of political corruption in Africa" by "using the Scottish Parliament to underpin efforts to entrench honest, open democracy in Africa".
After a reign of only four months, the government felt obliged to resign, whereupon the Whig leader William Lamb, 2nd Viscount Melbourne formed his second government.
In the latter half of Sturgeon's government, she and her government led the Scottish Government's response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Sturgeon appointed Mairi Gougeon to succeed FitzPatrick, with Angela Constance re-entering government to serve as Minister for Drug Policy.
Following the resignation of Derek Mackay as Finance Secretary in 2020, Sturgeon performed a minor reshuffle of her cabinet.
The second May ministry was formed on 11 June 2017 after Theresa May returned to office following the June 2017 snap general election.
History Formation of government In the May 2016 Scottish Parliament election, the Scottish National Party (SNP) won 63 of the 129 seats contested.
Junior Ministers Scottish Law Officers See also Premiership of Nicola Sturgeon Notes == References ==
History Formation The Duke of Wellington finally came to power after the abortive attempt at a Canningite-Whig coalition government came to an end with Viscount Goderich's resignation in January 1828.
Ministry See also 1734 British general election 1741 British general election 1742 vote of no confidence in the Walpole ministry Notes References == Further reading ==
The meme sometimes involves an accidental and comedic injury to the groin, usually as a result of falling or being struck by an object.
Peralta was caught using pine tar in his glove during a game against the Washington Nationals, was expelled from the game, and received an additional eight-game suspension.
In 2004, 12 men's and 6 women's teams played in the tournament, making it the largest international lacrosse event of the year.
In such events there are points accumulated over several days, playing different formats, and the total determines the winning team.
Risks to building infrastructure Utility tunnels carry everything from drinking water to power to fiber-optic network cabling.
A third baseman ideally possesses quick reaction to batted balls and a strong arm to make the long throw to first base.
According to various sources, the face of the statue was actually intended to be a face of a man, with some resemblance to the founder and current chairman of the Sunway Group, Tan Sri Dr.
Factors affecting ice quality include temperature, water quality, and usage, with toe picks causing more deterioration.
The specialists and the controller are recorded on audio tape, which, along with the video replay, is reviewed after each performance, if necessary, and the scores are changed accordingly.
Medal table Sources: As of the 2024 Summer Olympics and Court of Arbitration for Sport decision of March 2022 to disqualify a gold medalist in the weightlifting men's 77kg event at the 2016 Summer Olympics (medals in this event have not yet been reallocated as of August 2024).
Offside pass An offside pass occurs when a pass from inside a team's defending zone crosses the red line.
History Early development Similar games to Pêl-law have been played throughout the world for thousands of years.
While the defending player who scored the own goal is personally "credited" with the goal as part of the statistical abstract of the game (with the annotation "(og)" to indicate its nature), own goals are not added to a player's seasonal or career goalscoring total.
The draft also expand to seven rounds this year for the first time since 1996, with the CFL citing stronger Canadian talent as a reason for the expansion.
South Australian leagues began agitating for the change to what was considered by far the most dangerous aspect of the game.
Format There was five rounds, with each team having one pick in each and having 90 seconds to make that pick.
The information the judges provided during their scoring gave skaters' coaches "a clear idea of the mistakes made and what exactly needs to be worked on to get better results".
There have been instances of one-handed drag bunts as well; Rafael Furcal has been known to try such a bunt.
national team director Everett Uchiyama and former coach Andy King, the latter of whom was serving 40 years in prison after pleading no contest to 20 child molestation charges.
The National Hockey League (NHL) removed the penalty from its rule book following the 2006–07 season.
By contrast, the original Sheffield Rules had no offside rule, and players known as "kick throughs" were positioned permanently near the opponents' goal.
It does not matter which positional players satisfy the requirement, although usually the three attackmen stay in the offensive zone, the three defensemen and the goalie stay in the defensive zone, and the three middies play in both zones.
Although the umpires told Lillee he had to change his bat, Lillee instructed Hogg that he wasn't going to, and assumed a posture to face the next delivery.
Draft order was decided using each team's winning percentage in the first half of the season, with goal difference being the tiebreaker.
Of the 60 draft selections, 44 players were drafted from Canadian Interuniversity Sport institutions, which is the highest number of CIS players taken since the 1987 CFL draft when 50 of 72 were taken.
Fronton sizes Very short court This kind of court is 30 m long and is used professionally only for frontenis and paleta-rubber variants.
In 2016, the City of Sunny Isles Beach, FL provided USA Footvolley its official training centre, where the national team trains.
The next year, the association had grown to 40 members and established both a children's and women's league.
Some roofs have high power radio broadcast or radio reception equipment and weather-surveillance equipment, damage to which can be costly.
Officials noted the simulation resulted in Earthquakes defender Bobby Burling being sent off on the simulation, and the warning from MLS that fines and suspensions will increase for simulation being detected by the Disciplinary Committee.
According to the USA Hockey Officiating Rulebook, A1 shoots the puck which hits the goalkeeper and rebounds out to teammate A2.
In sports In sports in which a player can be ejected from the match (such as penalty cards, disqualifying fouls, et al), their passage off the pitch is frequently referred to as a walk of shame, especially in instances where the player looks more remorseful than angry.
The third defender, now with the attacker's 'backhead' in his stomach and still with his arms placed around the player's neck, then puts his entire weight onto the player's head by shifting his weight off his legs.
Like many other martial arts, Kodokan judo provides lists of techniques students must learn to earn rank.
If an attacking player crosses the line into the other team's zone before the puck does, they are said to be offside.
A technical time-out in volleyball and beach volleyball is a time-out stipulated by the Fédération Internationale de Volleyball (FIVB) in each non-tie-breaking set.
On the whole, match play encourages more aggressive play, especially at the professional level, where a par is not usually good enough to win a hole.
This includes bats that are filled, flat-surfaced, nailed, hollowed, grooved or covered with a substance such as paraffin, wax, etc.
In UFC 1, the first UFC event where there were very few rules, Kevin Rosier used 12–6 elbows on Zane Frazier.
At the end of the first minute, in general, the wrestler who has scored the most points will receive the advantage in an Olympic lift from an open par terre position on the other wrestler.
The losing goaltender of the shootout is credited with one shot against, one goal against, and an overtime/shootout loss.
No one but the referee is allowed to decide on cancellation because of the condition of the ice (but this does not mean that either team is unable to alert the attention of the referee regarding some part of the condition of the ice).
The base values of the jumps included are added together, then the GOE is applied "with the numerical value of the most difficult jump".
These 10 courses become "locked in" at the start of the seventh semester and cannot be retaken for grade improvement.
A comparison of the differences between baseball and softball can be made as softball is directly descended from baseball.
The organisation has been based in Lausanne, Switzerland since 2005, having moved from Brussels, Belgium.
Two such courts have been constructed at Gatina Primary, and Holy Ghost Mission (HGM) Primary School in Riruta, both in Dagoretti North Constituency, at the BP Riruta Stadium in Dagoretti South, and at the Humama Grounds, in Komoarock, Embakasi South Constituency.
The game follows similar rules to traditional field lacrosse, with modifications and a shorter game time.
The former Lingerie Football League earned notoriety for its indoor, seven-on-seven variety of women's football with minimal protective equipment and uniforms resembling women's underwear; the Lingerie Football League was later reorganized and renamed Extreme Football League.
The judges use the trimmed mean when calculating their scores, in which the highest and lowest scores of each element are removed, and the remaining scores are averaged to determine the final GOE for each element.
The Montreal Alouettes had the most selections with nine, followed by the Hamilton Tiger-Cats with eight.
In an effort to reduce tackle-related injuries, World Rugby has emphasized to referees the importance of penalizing players who use this tackle technique dangerously.
Because of the nature of the game, pure sudden-death overtimes have been abolished at all levels of the game as of 2012.
A high tackle occurs when a player tackles or attempts to tackle an opponent whereby their arm makes contact with the ball carrier’s chest.
On June 27, Seattle Mariners left-hander Hector Santiago became the first player ejected under MLB's heightened enforcement, after umpires discovered a foreign substance on his glove.
Backward kicks are treated as fumbles, and as such, a backward kick through the back of the end zone, including through the goal posts, is scored as a safety.
In England, starting in the summer of 2017, a three-man panel consisting of a former player, a former manager, and a former match official would independently review video evidence on the Monday after games.
The no charge zone arc rule first appeared at any level of basketball in the NBA in the 1997–98 season.
Sometimes, a batter may square up, then quickly retract the bat and take a full swing as the pitch is delivered.
Minnesota The Minnesota State High School Coaches Association began using a true team format to determine the top high school track and field team in 1987.
Modern UK promotions using Mountevans rules are sometimes referred to as World of Sport Style promotions.
In May 2019, World Rugby released a decision-making framework for high tackles to assist players and referees in avoiding illegal high tackles and appropriately sanctioning players who commit this infraction.
During the Rush, any ball retrieved from the neutral zone must be returned behind the attack line before it may be thrown at an opponent.
The NFHS generally sets the standard for weight classes for high school-level dual meets, multiple duals, and tournaments.
This alone would place these players on the list of NHL players with 1,000 points, which also earns the NHL Milestone Award.
Gravity The gravitational force is directed downwards and is equal to F G = m g , {\displaystyle F_{\text{G}}=mg,} where m is the mass of the ball, and g is the gravitational acceleration, which on Earth varies between 9.764 m/s2 and 9.834 m/s2.
When either ball falls to the ground the other team scores a point, and the first team to score 10 points wins the game.
Ice sledge racing is a Paralympic sport where contestants use a lightweight sledge and propel themselves using two poles.
(Indoor American football leagues, because of the shorter field, also assign a 10-yard penalty for unsportsmanlike conduct.) Rough play is the foul called for unsportsmanlike violent behavior; it carries a 25-yard penalty, the largest in all gridiron football.
History ASB GlassFloor, a German manufacturer, first demonstrated a glass court for sports including basketball in 2011.
Once the anthem is complete, drivers have exactly five minutes to get in their cars with all the safety equipment fastened and ready to go.
The Queue for each team is a 3 ft (0.91 m) by 12 ft (3.7 m) area, and should be located 2 ft (0.61 m) to 3 ft (0.91 m) from the sideline, leaving enough room for an official to move freely along the sideline.
Davin had other links to Australia, including his younger brother Denis, like his other brothers, an Irish athlete, who had emigrated there, and would have been familiar with the country's many customs.
Although this ban might have decreased the number of head injuries, players' use of spearing still persists.
The law, approved by the Cortes Generales at the end of the year, entered into force on December 30, 2021.
Rules According to rule 661.4 of the International Ski Federation's international ski competition rules (ICR) a gate is passed correctly if both ski tips and both feet cross an imaginary line between two gate poles.
The relay operator supports the technical panel by operating the instantaneous slow-motion video replay system, which helps the technical panel verify the elements performed.
Corked bats are sometimes discovered when they break during the moment of impact upon hitting a baseball.
As artificially frozen and indoor bandy arenas have become more prevalent, the interest for rink bandy has dwindled in the main bandy-playing nations (Russia, Sweden, Finland, Norway).
The Big Banana has been a family owned business since it was opened by Betty and John Landi, and Stella and John Enveoldson in 1964.
On August 1, 2016, Red Bull TV launched the documentary series URBEX – Enter At Your Own Risk, which also chronicles roof and tunnel hacking.
The flying kick has been illegal in American football since 1900 but is still allowed in Canadian football, Rugby Union and Rugby League.
Non-penalty foul If a high stick comes in contact with the puck and the team that touched it regains control of the puck, then play stops and a face-off takes place in a disadvantageous position to the offending team.
Rugby union is also notable for promoting the British and Irish Lions, a selection of players from Britain and Ireland rugby team.
A spear tackle is an illegal tackle in rugby union, rugby league and Australian rules football in which a player lifts another player into the air and drops them so that they land on their back, head or neck.
There are several types of sleds, namely the sitting sled, the kneeling sled, the steering sled, and the ice sledge hockey sled.
By using the momentum from giants and then releasing at the proper point, enough height can be achieved for spectacular dismounts, such as a triple-back salto.
By May 1900, a new bandstand was constructed and the grounds featured a large fountain surrounded by evergreen trees.
As per a 2011 World Rugby memorandum on the topic, "A player must not tackle (or try to tackle) an opponent above the line of the shoulders even if the tackle starts below the line of the shoulders.
For the purposes provided in the World Anti-Doping Code and in the internal regulations of the World Anti-Doping Agency, the commission is considered the National Anti-Doping Organization (NADOs).
For example, in basketball the coach can be given technical fouls or be immediately ejected from the game.
For example, in the National Basketball Association players are given a $2000 fine each technical foul committed for the first five technical fouls committed in the regular season.
In most higher levels of play the goal structure is attached to the ice surface by flexible pegs and will break away for safety when hit by a player.
Some players believe that there is no harm in discussing the issue; however, most players and administrators continue to believe that fighting should stay as a permanent element of organized ice hockey.
It led to an immediate change in the style of play, with the game becoming more stretched, "short passing giv[ing] way to longer balls", and the development of the W-M formation.
Round 1 (May 20) Round 2 (May 27) Round 3 (June 3) Round 4 (June 10) Round 5 (June 17) Round 6 (June 24) Round 7 (July 1) Round 8 (July 10) Notes References External links Major League Wrestling official website
Numerous accounts, however, refer to different players experimenting with versions of the spitball throughout the latter half of the 19th century, and it remains unlikely that any one individual "invented" the spitball.
Mock drafts are often found to be helpful to fans because they allow them to speculate on which members of the collegiate ranks will join the fan's favorite team.
American football teams and organizations subsequently adopted new rules that distinguished the game from rugby.
The rink was divided into three zones by two blue lines as of the 1928–29 season, and the centre line did not yet exist.
In ice hockey, an awarded goal is an unusual situation in which a goal is awarded to a team rather than scored.
In August of 2019, World Rugby announced that reducing tackle height to waist level was one of several trial laws under consideration for implementation by the Rugby World Cup in 2023.
The 1.1 special factor, however, is applied only for the last one-jump element executed in the second half of the short program, and for the last three jump elements executed during the second half of the free skate.
They "entirely focus on evaluating the quality of each element performed (Technical score) and the quality of the performance (Presentation Score)".
References External links Statuten DFL - bundesliga.de - die offizielle Webseite der Bundesliga Archived 9 June 2017 at the Wayback Machine (in German)
It is predominantly awarded when a foul has prevented a certain goal from being scored or for a deliberate infringement by a defender in the penalty circle.
Hill even received a death threat from an irate viewer, with a specific emphasis on him being a "foreigner", but the score bug soon became a ubiquitous feature for American football broadcasts, along with almost all American sports broadcasts in the years that followed.
The following spring, Chapman's teammates experimented with leather helmets similar to those being used by football players; that year's Spalding Guide declared, "There is nothing 'sissy' about it." Catcher Roger Bresnahan is cited as one of the first players to construct and wear a helmet, in 1907.
Arsenal manager Arsène Wenger claimed the ban, which was to last two games, was "a complete disgrace and unacceptable", as it singled out Eduardo as a cheat, something which UEFA would be unable to prove.
If the struck ball does not hit wall a before bouncing but hits the opponent, the striker forfeits the point.
Goals are accrued by the respective teams, and the match score represents the total score accrued by each team.
Rugby league Melbourne Storm forward Adam Blair was found guilty of committing a chicken wing tackle in an Australian Rugby League match against Brisbane Broncos in April 2008.
The border was originally only used in the Russian rulebook, but was introduced in the 1950s to the countries which had until then played according to the Scandinavian (originally English) rules, when the rules of the game were standardized and the international governing federation was founded.
In the National Rugby League, for example, play stops whilst the player's medical staff attends to the wound.
Each player is only allowed in certain areas of the court: a player in a section of the court that is not part of their playing area is deemed "offside".
The following is a list of ice hockey players who have recorded 600 assists in the National Hockey League (NHL).
As of 2010, the most recent failed attempt occurred in the 2007 Final, when Antoine Vermette of the Ottawa Senators had his shot turned aside by Jean-Sébastien Giguère of the Anaheim Ducks.
Characteristics There are two main types of frontons, the first one being the single-wall fronton, prevalent on the eastern Basque Country, while two-wall frontons are typically located in present-day Basque Autonomous Community, a large part of Navarre, and La Rioja.
Women's events Women's weightlifting made its Olympic debut at the 2000 Games in Sydney, with seven weight classes.
Strategy Golfers can employ a slightly different strategy during a match play event since the scoring is different.
Under French rules, balls which land between the fault line and the main wall are not considered a fault, and are instead called a pass, with the serve replayed.
In addition, Defensive holding was the fourth most common penalty in the 2021 NFL season as well with 163 penalties being issued for a total of 780 penalty yards.
When the Germanic Keil was advancing against the enemy, they sang the baritus or barditus, the battle song (battle cry); it begins with a muffled grumbling and swells with the heat of the battle up to the roar of the waves beating against the rocks.
A rink bandy game lasts 60 minutes but is composed of either two 30 minute halves or three 20 minute periods.
"Relative pitch area plays an important role in movement pattern and intensity in recreational male football".
In the middle of the central wrestling area is the "central circle", which is one meter in diameter.
Today there are surviving courts at Llantrisant, Pontypridd, Laugharne, Mountain Ash and Ystrad Rhondda.
First members complete to join the seven founding members were Austria, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, France, Hungary, Spain, and Switzerland.
This weight loss plan takes into account potential dehydration during the wrestling season and minimum amounts of body fat.
The assists will be awarded in the order of play, with the last player to pass the puck to the goal scorer getting the primary assist and the player who passed it to the primary assister getting the secondary assist.
A speed skating rink (or speed skating oval) is an ice rink (a specific type of sport venue) in which a speed skating competition is held.
Win by default: If for any reason, a wrestler is unable to continue competing during the match (e.g., because of injury, illness), his opponent is awarded victory by "default".
Trades In the explanations below, (D) denotes trades that took place during the draft, while (PD) indicates trades completed pre-draft.
Squash and racquetball—opposing players are often very close to each other and a "let" may be called if a player interferes with an opposing player's ability to have a fair chance to hit the ball.
The Chicago hotel's Michigan Avenue side has a topside curtain wall and corduroy concrete patterns beneath the windows, similar to its Hong Kong forebear's historical facade.
Spear tackles have caused serious injury including spinal damage, dislocations, broken bones in the shoulder or neck, and death.
Simultaneously, a defensive player (known as the "under") will set up between the front of the stack and the handler with the disc.
Ukemi (breakfalls) Students first learn how to fall, and must master the fall exercises before moving on to the throws lists.
Other notable examples include: Jon Koncak, in 1985, who was selected by the Atlanta Hawks fifth overall, ahead of Hall of Famers Chris Mullin, Karl Malone, and Joe Dumars; as well as other notable players Detlef Schrempf, Charles Oakley, A.C.
Corner posts, which sometimes lean to one side, have no upper height limit set and this led to a fear that corner posts might become "long rubber snakes, biting attackers and sending them into touch", in the words of Roy Masters.
Each player rotates only one time after the team gains possession of the service; the next time each player rotates will be after the other team wins possession of the ball and loses the point.
After several architects were unable to meet expectations for the building's façade, Yong assumed responsibility for the interior design and architectural concept.
The referee signals unsportsmanlike conduct by holding his arms outstretched with palms facing downward.
The two goal lines are between 50 and 100 yards (46 and 91 metres) wide and must be the same length.
Draft selection First round Source: Spin.ph Trades involving draft picks Draft-day trades Draft-day trades were made on December 20, 2020, the day of the draft.
Also on the agenda was a proposal to limit squads to 25 players with unlimited under-21 players per team at national and European level, as well as plans to reduce fees paid to agents.
As of 2010, the regulation is as follows: Before a high school student can be eligible to play Division I sports, he or she must meet academic requirements in high school.
Often when attempting to bunt for a base hit, the batter will begin running as he is bunting the ball.
Another form is "medal match play", which combines the head-to-head match play style with medal or stroke play scores.
A server has two chances to execute a valid serve, failing which the receiver wins the point and the players swap roles.
For the league's first season, 23 US players, plus 16 players each from Canada and Mexico, had their salaries paid by their respective federations; these players' salaries originally did not count against the team cap.
Australian rules football The use of the chicken wing tackle in the Australian Football League is generally considered to have been picked up from National Rugby League.
Sledge hockey was introduced to the Winter Paralympics in 1994, with Sweden claiming the first gold medal.
However, there have been occasions where points have been deducted or the fighter using that strike in competition has been disqualified due to the move incapacitating fighters.
The MLW Open Draft was a draft used by the American professional wrestling promotion Major League Wrestling (MLW) to refresh its roster in preparation for the promotion's return to live touring following the COVID-19 pandemic.
A rabbit punch is a blow delivered to the back of the head or to the base of the skull, notorious for its potential to cause severe and irreversible injuries, including spinal cord injury or even instant death.
The clause forbade a player from negotiations with another team without the permission of the team holding that player's rights even after the contract's term was completed.
A standard competitive volleyball match is played in a best-of-five sets format and typically goes on for about 90 minutes.
Ice World, often referred to as Ice World Arena or Totowa Ice World, was an American sporting venue located in Totowa, New Jersey.
The agency has also carried out the re-analysis of the samples taken for the Olympic competitions preceding its creation.
This occurred on Friday, November 27, 2009 in a game from the ECHL league between the Utah Grizzlies and the Alaska Aces.
This clause was applied to northern hemisphere games from September 1977 and for southern hemisphere games from January 1978 and remains part of the rules.
However, if the batter becomes a baserunner on a dropped third strike and the pitcher is involved in recording a putout by fielding the ball and either tagging the runner out or throwing to first base for the out, the pitcher is credited with an assist just as any other fielder would be.
Ray Bourque and Paul Coffey are the only defensemen to reach 1,000 assists while Jaromir Jagr is the only non-Canadian player with 1,000 career assists.
The total segment scores of both programs are added together, and the resulting score is the competition's final score; the competitor(s) with the highest total score win the competition.
The late 19th century also saw a great number of workers move to Wales and it seems the increasing population enjoyed the sport.
Tumbling Quadruple tumbling, for youth athletes See also Code of Points (artistic gymnastics) Sources "2022–2024 Code of Points: Women's Artistic Gymnastics" (PDF).
For a sport to become an Olympic sport, its international sports federation must be recognized by the International Olympic Committee.
People responsible for leisure activities often seek recognition and respectability as sports by joining sports federations such as the International Olympic Committee, or by forming their own regulatory body.
Similarly, the Laws in Wales Acts (1535 and 1542) removed historic Welsh institutions and barred Welsh people (or English people with Welsh connections) from positions of authority.
It was outlawed a year earlier in Massachusetts, which played by NCAA rules until 2018, and Texas, which still uses the NCAA rule book with modifications approved by the University Interscholastic League.
The leveraged buyout model is common for normal business ventures where – apart from the actual employees – the overall national impact of a firm collapsing is not particularly significant since other companies will fill the gap in the market.
Several sports organizations such Major league baseball and the National Football League have set up their own networks to deliver live scores via mobile phones.
For a more complete list of judo techniques by technique classification, including Japanese kanji, see the article judo techniques.
By the 1870s, Dr Ifor Ajax-Lewis of Llantrisant and Richard Andrews, a miner from Nelson were offering enormous prize money to any player who could beat them.
The attacking player must not feint and can only play the ball once (there is no rebound); the goalkeeper is not permitted to move their feet until the ball is played.
In basketball, the basketball court is the playing surface, consisting of a rectangular floor, with baskets at each end.
These games are generally based on the high school rulebooks, which have an addendum devoted to the play of these codes, and are generally played by teams from high schools with very small student bodies, usually in rural areas of the United States.
In 2022, for the first time, dried blood spot testing has been used as a routine means of doping control at the Beijing Winter Olympic Games.
With the Australian rules lacking an offside and defensive and offensive lines, rugby players in general play did not need as much positional awareness of players behind them.
Their justification for the graphic was to provide a location for a rotating series of sponsor logos, in order to allow matches to air without commercial interruption.
According to WADA, the USADA "scheme threatened the integrity of sporting competition" and was "in clear breach of the rules".
Approximately 2 feet (0.61 m) to 3 feet (0.91 m) should be allotted for an out of bounds area, allowing officials to move freely along the sidelines.
Draft order All 24 teams of PCAP participated in the draft, with the draft order determined through the drawing of lots.
In 1995 markings for One Wall Handball were made within the three-walled Nelson court and in May that year the inaugural European One Wall Handball Tournament was held in Wales.
Internet mock drafts typically rank many dozens of players per position, often with immense detail for each prospect, and some forecast drafts for several years into the future.
At the Olympic summit of October 2015, the IOC proposed that an independent testing system be created in the area of anti-doping.
Since there is no "US Open" meet of the old format, the National Championships (specifically Summer '08) have begun to be called the "US Open" to bring it in line with the nomenclature of other sports US Olympic Trials The Olympic Trials are held once every 4 years.
The distance between the sleeves, however, is the same for the men's and the women's bars at 1310 mm.
This move was first used by Jushin Thunder Liger on Ultimo Dragon, then the move became popular through use by Scott Steiner, who called it the Steiner Screwdriver.
Players There is no goalkeeper in rugby union, instead there is a fullback, although it must be said that the fullback in rugby union is not required to guard a goal in the same way that a goalkeeper does.
However, some players and teams try this strategy, known as cherry picking, in an attempt to gain an advantage by scoring easy baskets, with varying degrees of success.
The term may be applied to any sport in which a player on one team regularly attempts to throw a ball toward the general vicinity of a player of the opposite team, but is typically expected not to hit that player with the ball.
Alliance of Independent Recognized Members of Sport (AIMS) AIMS is a stakeholder of SportAccord that represents sports federations that were not yet recognized by the International Olympic Committee (IOC).
It enforces the anti-doping rules sanctioning any infraction of the same, applying the current legislation.
These are easier to play or avoid than beamers, as beamers do not land on the pitch and are illegal, batsman's are caught by surprise and the technique of batting, using feet and body movement to meet the ball after it pitches does not apply.
In particular, deficiencies that needed to be remedied were identified at the stadiums in Senden (closed for almost the entire remainder of the 2005/06 winter season) and in Deggendorf (temporarily closed in 2005/06).
Nobody will admit that, but it does happen." Don Zimmer, who was nearly killed by a beanball in 1953 and had four metal buttons surgically implanted in his skull, recounted, "It's not a case of being tougher than anybody else...
Rules Different forms of short format cricket have different rules for certain situations: When all but one of a team's batsmen are out: In Last man stands cricket, the last batsman who is not out bats alone, can only run even numbers of runs, and can only make their ground at the striker's end.
Origins Both sports have their origins in the traditional football games of Europe, with a great deal of formal 19th-century codification overlaying them.
Rosal's progress at reform in Quetzeltenango was interrupted when Justo Rufino Barrios became the nation's president and began expelling members of religious orders.
He married, in 1841, Isabella Georgina Allen, youngest daughter of John Hensleigh Allen who had been the Whig member of parliament for the borough of Pembroke from 1818 to 1826.
Francisco Alfredo Edmead (1956 – August 22, 1974) was a minor league baseball player who was killed in a freak on-field accident in 1974.
This list is organized into two sortable tables, summarizing aviation accidents and non-aviation accidents.
Van Schoor collapsed while batting in a CSA Provincial 50 Over Challenge match against Free State at Wanderers Cricket Ground on 15 November 2015; he was admitted to hospital having suffered a stroke.
Challenging another player by targeting their body, an important part of soccer for most of the 20th century, is penalised automatically under modern refereeing guidelines, as is "dangerous play" such as playing the ball with a foot above shoulder height.
The first documented deaths of competitive cyclists during competition or training date to the 1890s and early 1900s when the recently invented safety bicycle made cycling more popular, both as a sport and as a mode of transport.
As a diplomat, he took part in the Polish-Teutonic negotiations at Raciąż in 1404 and the council of Nowy Korczyn.
Named after his maternal uncle, Emperor Henry II, he was the only one of Stephen’s sons to survive into adulthood.
The expedition was abandoned and the party returned to Horrocks's home at Penwortham, where he died of his wounds on 23 September.
Gathers' life was dramatized in a 1992 TV movie, Final Shot: The Hank Gathers Story, with Victor Love starring as Gathers.
As an international, he represented Namibia in the ICC Intercontinental Cup, the World Cricket League, and the ICC World Twenty20 Qualifier.
Edmead collided with Cruz—who, coincidentally, had signed Edmead to his first pro contract as a part-time scout for the Pirates—striking his head on Cruz's knee, knocking Edmead unconscious.
A master of the Cattistock Hunt, he was killed in a riding accident while out with the hunt on 11 November 1891.
As the friction, exacerbated by frequent disputes over the division of hunting spoils, intensified, Temüjin and his younger brother Qasar ambushed and killed Behter.
Weiss also competed in two Summer Olympics, earning his best finish of sixth in the K1 event in Atlanta in 1996.
Sometimes, the deaths came during competition or practice, while other times deaths occurred due to road accidents or other non-sports-related reasons.
While at Georgia, he was part of the team that won the 1942 Orange Bowl, which was Georgia's first bowl appearance and first win.
In terms of perceived status, some of the matches may have been "minor", but are nevertheless historically significant.
Death Ehrhardt died on February 5, 1963, from an accidental self-inflicted gunshot wound while on a hunting trip.
Career statistics Regular season and playoffs References External links Biographical information and career statistics from NHL.com, or Eliteprospects.com, or Hockey-Reference.com, or The Internet Hockey Database
His main honor was the silver medal at the 2009 European Indoor Championships with a throw of 20.42 metres.
The rift widened, and perhaps became irreversible, when Speke was chosen to lead a subsequent expedition instead of Burton.
See also Nodar Kumaritashvili Kazimierz Kay-Skrzypeski Ross Milne Nicolas Bochatay Knut Jensen Francisco Lázaro == References ==
But on 12 May 1848, the Hungarian government issued a warrant for the leaders of the Slovak movement: Štúr, Hurban, and Hodža.
Buchanan died in a car accident near Sharbot Lake on 7 June 1977, just before leaving on a European tour to prepare for the 1980 Summer Olympics.
Wanjiru's cousin Joseph Riri was a world-class marathon runner, and Wanjiru's younger brother Simon Njoroge was also a long-distance runner.
When his father sold the restaurant chain in 1982, the family moved to Mobile, Alabama, where he was raised.
He generally played as a forward and was "ranked as one of the best football players of his day" who "strove hard to pass the backs".
Achievements Personal bests Marathons World Marathon Majors Series timeline See also Athletics competitors who died during their careers Notes References External links Kelvin Kiptum at World Athletics
At the draft, Cherepanov was selected by the New York Rangers in the first round of the draft, 17th overall.
According to Baha al-Din ibn Shaddad, Ayyub was "a noble, generous man, mild and of excellent character." He was also "passionately fond of polo".
He is sometimes referred to as Valdemar III for example his tombstone reads in Latin: Waldemarus Tertius Rex Daniae, Filius Waldemari Secundi "Valdemar the Third, King of Denmark, son of Valdemar the Second".
On July 5, 2006, Hickey was appointed to the Executive Council of Newfoundland and Labrador as Minister of Transportation and Works and Minister of Labrador Affairs.
Rosal settled for one final time this time in Ecuador where she established convents for the Bethlemite Sisters in Tulcán and in Otavalo.
Planning and German involvement Historical documents released to Der Spiegel by the German secret service show that Dortmund police had been aware of collaboration between Abu Daoud and neo-Nazi Willi Pohl (a.k.a.
He died at Chertsey, Surrey, on 3 August 1878, after suffering a brain injury during a cricket match.
Only four months after her Olympic victory, Ryabchinskaya was taking part in winter training at Lake Paliastomi in the Soviet republic of Georgia when she fell into the water and died from abrupt cooling.
He also founded the Electro-Dynamic Company in 1880, based in Philadelphia, and had around 40 patents to his name.
Lawrence held the NCAA record in the indoor 300m, having run 32.32 at the 2010 Hokie Invitational, which was the fifth fastest time in history.
She also played in the Prince George Senior Men's Baseball League (PGSMBL) for the Red Sox team as their starting pitcher.
To field the opposition, labeled the "World Team," promoters circulated invitations on the Internet that guaranteed potential competitors travel and accommodation expenses, as well as $2,000 for fighting and an additional $3,000 for winning.
When he arrived, he found the land already held by Francisco Pizarro's lieutenant Sebastián de Belalcázar.
World War II Vietnam War War in Afghanistan See also List of NFL players in World War II List of American football players who died during their careers == References ==
In 1966 he died in an accident, when he fell from a horse during the filming of Andrzej Wajda's film Popioły.
Chapman had been inducted into the team Hall of Fame in 2006, part of the first new induction class since 1972.
He played in only one Test, the 3rd Test against Australia at Headingley in 1921 when he was unlucky to only make 3 and 2.
The downhill on the classic Kandahar course at Garmisch Classic was held on Saturday, 29 January, following an overnight snowfall.
One week later, Štúr founded the Institute of the Czechoslovak Language and Literature, within which the activities of the Czech-Slav Society continued.
Maxim Kaibkhanovich Dadashev (Russian: Максим Каибханович Дадашев; Lezgian: Дадашрин Къаибханан хва Максим; September 30, 1990 – July 23, 2019) was a Russian boxer who competed in the light-welterweight (63.5 kg) division.
He had 19.5 tackles, three for losses, 1.5 sacks, a blocked kick, and a safety, and was a major factor in the Storm's ArenaBowl victory over the Arizona Rattlers.
He inherited the Lawrenny, Rosemarket, and Nash estates in 1851 on the death of Sir William Owen-Barlow, 8th Baronet.
Four years later in 1964 at Innsbruck, she finished fifth in the downhill, seventh in the giant slalom, and tenth in the slalom.
Emily Davison, English suffragette, threw herself in front of the King's horse at the Derby in 1913 and was trampled to death.
In great shock, Cichyrus rode away in a frenzy until he eventually fell off his horse down in a stony and craggy ravine, where he died.
In the beginning of the 13th round Mancini charged Kim with a flurry of 39 punches but had little effect.
Scurry (November 11, 1811 – April 9, 1862) was a Texas politician and a Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives.
Wilfred Norris Slack (12 December 1954 – 15 January 1989) was an English cricketer, who played in three Test matches and two One Day Internationals for England in 1986.
He was regarded as among the most promising young talents of the Austrian downhill team of the early 1990s.
While living in San Augustine, Scurry served in a militia company commanded by Rusk which took part in the Texas–Indian wars.
References Bibliography Anton Balthasar König: Biographisches Lexikon aller Helden und Militärpersonen.
Death Jones died in 1978 on the Braldu River which flows off K2, the world's second highest mountain, in Pakistan.
Douglas Dedge 31-year-old Douglas Dedge was an American mixed martial artist who was the first known American competitor to be fatally injured in an MMA fight and the first death in the modern era of MMA.
He supported the aviation pioneer Jan Kašpar and supported collecting expeditions including that of Rudolf Grauer (1870–1927).
Hague then faced fellow UFC vet, Travis Wiuff, at AMMA 5: Uprising on October 1, 2010, event in Edmonton, Alberta.
This siege proving more difficult than he had anticipated, Moulay Rashid withdrew his army to concentrate on the central Rif, where Abou Mohammed Abdallah A'aras was trading with the French in violation of Moulay Rashid's ban on trade with European powers.
The standing eight count (which allows a knockdown to be called even if the boxer is not down, but on the verge of being knocked down) was imposed, and new rules regarding suspension of licence were imposed, initially 45 days after a knockout loss.
Late in the fourth quarter, with Detroit trailing 28–23, the Lions were driving into Chicago territory and Hughes, who entered the game as an injury replacement, caught a pass from quarterback Greg Landry for 32 yards and a first down at the Bears' 37-yard line.
After striking the ball whilst batting right-handed, he then swapped hands to bat with his left-hand and proceeded to strike the ball once again.
References External links Albert Zürner at the International Swimming Hall of Fame Albert Zürner at Olympedia
On the night of 26 September, the division crossed the Dnieper and captured a bridgehead near the village of Soshinovka.
Pegu forces occupied Sagaing across from Ava but as Dein had feared, the naval blockades alone were not enough to force Minkhaung to surrender.
He was concerned that the parachute needed longer to fully open than the few seconds the drop from the first platform would allow, and he also presented other technical objections to which Reichelt could not provide a satisfactory response.
Second aircraft A smaller plane waiting for clearance to take off when the accident occurred was due to carry four other players to the same match: Erik Dyreborg, Hans Christian Andersen, Bent Jørgensen, and Bjarne Eklund.
On 25 January 2004, he died of a cardiac arrest during a match between Vitória de Guimarães and his team Benfica in Guimarães.
Park and Damián 666 defeated El Mesías, Cibernético and La Parka in a six-man tag team match, when Perro pinned Mesías.
Following that, he climbed Mount Everest, Mount Kosciuszko, Mount Elbrus, Kilimanjaro, Denali, and Aconcagua, reached the South Pole, and skydived into the North Pole.
He collided with teammate Ramon Rodrigues while trying to collect the ball from an opponent and was struck in the chest.
At his second Olympic shot put competition he had a best mark of 19.57 m but failed to reach the final round.
Career After graduating, Beall moved to California, where he studied at the California Culinary Academy, following which he worked at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel in San Francisco, and went on to study French cuisine at The French Laundry in Yountville, California.
He began to have health problems in 1912, and that year he sold The Black Cat to Samuel Cassino, the publisher of Little Folks.
He also made many famous stunts with his development of a ram-air wingsuit, starting modern-day wingsuiting.
Kazimierz Kay-Skrzypecki (or Skrzypeski) (25 November 1905 – 22 January 1964) was a British luge racer.
On September 19, 1971, she became the first winner of the women's division of the New York City Marathon at the age of 19.
Philipp Jakob Oberländer (30 November 1875 – 3 March 1911) was a Czech big game hunter, traveller and trophy hunter.
World championship results From 1948 through 1980, the Winter Olympics were also the World Championships for alpine skiing.
Pavelka was the only American aviator killed along the front in Salonika and the first American soldier killed along the Macedonian front.
The Encyclopaedia Islamica considers the report by Narshakhi unconvincing, and possibly a misinterpretation.
At the time of the accident, she was under the auspices of the Finnish alpine ski team who were running a training camp at the location.
Jason Carty (10 November 1969 - September 2021) was a British masters sprint athlete and world record holder.
His father Brian Strange and his mother Dianette Wells are both adventurers who have climbed Mount Everest.
In 1976, he won the European indoor title over this distance, and was one of the favourites for a medal at the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal.
Gibb, 1932 (reprint, Dover Publications, 2002) Vladimir Minorsky, "The Prehistory of Saladin", in Studies in Caucasian History, Cambridge University Press, 1957, pp.
Right after the rainy season, he sent in 7000-strong land and naval forces to attack Prome and Gu-Htut.
In 22 May 2010, he played his first match in the Iraq Stars League against Al-Hasanain, where he entered as a substitute in the second half, and proved that he is no different from the team's main goalkeeper after he was able to thwart the opponent's striker Hassan Jabbar's one-on-one.
At the same time, the Muhtajid prince Abu Ali Chaghani, who had lost the governorship of Khurasan at the end of Nuh's reign, fled to the domain of the Buyid ruler Adud al-Dawla (r.
In 1639, he was adopted and designated as heir apparent to the throne of Kartli by his father’s first cousin, the seasoned king Rostom, who had no children of his own.
In April 1809 he returned to Germany as second in command of the foot chasseurs corps of the Imperial Guard under the command of Philibert Jean-Baptiste Curial.
That same year, he qualified for and competed at his first National Finals Rodeo (NFR), the PRCA's annual year-end world championship rodeo at the Thomas & Mack Center in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Born in a family of industrialists in Úpice, he made several expeditions around the world before he was killed by a cape buffalo in a hunting accident in the Sudan.
On June 22, 2011, Hickey confirmed that he would not seek re-election in the October 2011 provincial election.
Johnny was awarded the honour of "Young Champion" in 2010 at the inaugural Youth Olympic Games in Singapore and attended at the "What Makes A Young Champion?" event.
His helmet from the 1998 season is at the National Museum of American History in the Smithsonian museum in Washington D.C.
Lachenal was described by Terray as "by far the fastest and most brilliant climber I have ever known on delicate or loose terrain".
Zürner's best event at these Games was in the 10 metre platform event, where he won the silver medal, finishing behind Swedish diver Erik Adlerz by 1.34 points.
Although an experienced and expert hunter of wild game, his death is officially reported to have been caused by being mauled by a wounded buffalo.
"Creag" On Thursday, 10 March 1300 (Julian calendar), wardrobe accounts of King Edward I of England included refunds to one John de Leek of monies that he had paid out to enable Prince Edward to play "creag and other games" at both Westminster and Newenden.
Liang won several ultramarathons, including the Ultra Gobi—a 400 km (250 mi) race through the Gobi Desert—in 2018.
The bout's referee, Richard Green, committed suicide via self-inflicted gunshot wound on July 1, 1983.
In Los Angeles in December 1910, while Latham was participating in an aviation meet, he was asked by one of the wealthier citizens of the city if he would consider coming to his estate to try to shoot wild duck in the air from his aeroplane.
On 24 December 2012, Nobs had an accident while cross-country skiing in Switzerland and fell into a coma.
on 2 July 1996 before John Paul II issued his final approval to this miracle on 17 December 1996 - the miracle in question was a 1975 healing from Colombia.
Dickison attended Phillips Junior High School in Minneapolis, Minnesota with fellow future high diver Dana Kunze.
Prior to beginning his MMA career, he was an elementary school teacher at École Bellevue School in Beaumont, Alberta.
Before, he won the Isle of Man International in treacherous conditions where only sixteen out of seventy riders finished.
The 50th (Northumbrian) Division, of which 7th DLI formed part, was thrown straight into action at the Second Battle of Ypres as soon as it arrived in Belgium.
His impressive performances earned him international recognition and reported interest from Arsenal, Manchester United and Real Madrid, but all bids were rejected.
Many criticized the indiscriminate use of foreign words and seemingly careless metres of the work; however, it was also much praised for its poetic strength, which made Zrínyi the most notable Hungarian poet of the 17th century.
Her envoys absolved the Poles from their 1382 oath of loyalty to Mary on 28 March 1383, announcing that the queen mother would send her younger daughter, Jadwiga, to Poland.
Ascension: The uplifting, unparalleled life of Sarah Burke – PowderMag Article Sarah Burke at the International Ski and Snowboard Federation Sarah Burke at the X Games (archived)
He played first-class cricket for the Marylebone Cricket Club on three occasions, playing twice against Oxford University in 1881 and 1882 at Oxford and once against Yorkshire at Lord's in 1885.
He kept his place in the team after this match, and helped Celtic to finish second in the Scottish First Division.
Theophylact introduced theatrical elements to the Byzantine liturgy, something which was not universally supported by the conservative clergy around him.
Torrence had a record setting indoor season in 2014, setting the American Record for the indoor 1000m, the World Record in the indoor 4x800 and also running under the previous American Record in the 2000m, although Bernard Lagat was able to run even faster that same race and take the record.
The son of George Fillingham senior, he was born in August 1841 at Syerston Hall in Syerston, Nottinghamshire.
Eventually, Ali Soliman made Moulay Rashid his lieutenant, giving him command of a number of troops and tasking him with the suppression of unrest in his territories.
College career Hughes played college football for the Texas Western Miners, and he is still listed in many of the team's all-time records.
Tipping died on 5 February 1993, aged 34, in a parachuting accident at Brunton, near Alnwick, Northumberland, while filming for the BBC documentary series 999.
He even participated in making the world's record in jumping from fixed objects on 3 July 2004, when 30 jumpers leapt at the same time.
Ski Team first wore crash helmets at the 1956 Winter Olympics, but most of the Europeans went without.
(2013) Poetry and its Contexts in Eleventh-century Byzantium, Ashgate Publishing Birkenmeier, John W.
When the Corpo Aeronautico Militare separated from the army in 1923 to become an independent service, the Regia Aeronautica, he became a member of the new service, and achieved the rank of general.
He also played with the Namibian teams that participated in the CSA Provincial Competitions in South Africa and the Stanbic Bank 20 Series in Zimbabwe.
Death According to Manetho, Menes reigned for either 30, 60 or 62 years and was killed by a hippopotamus.
He was commissioned into the British Army as a second lieutenant into the 1st Derbyshire Corps in September 1880.
He died from injuries sustained during one of the training runs for the first Olympic luge competition at the 1964 Winter Olympics in Innsbruck.
The Olympic 100 km team time trial road race was held in 40 °C (104 °F) heat on Via Cristoforo Colombo in Rome.
His personal best throw in the shot put was 20.72 metres, a French national record, achieved in May 2008 in Versailles.
He returned to top form in 2008, throwing over sixty metres in the discus for the first time and putting a season's best of 20.22 m in the shot just prior to the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
Early years Born and raised in Steamboat Springs, Colorado, Werner was the middle child of Ed "Pop" and Hazel Mae "Hazie" Werner.
Initially acquitted, the prosecution later won a conviction on appeal, of manslaughter by negligence, and Bogner received a two-month suspended sentence.
During his professional boxing career, he earned an associate degree in nutrition from Nassau Community College, and a bachelor's degree in health and wellness from Kaplan University.
Death He died on 3 January 2021 at the age of 65 due to a heart attack while playing in a senior veterans cricket match in Virar.
Cioncan's last competition on the top international level was the 2006 World Indoor Championships, where she failed to progress past the first heat of the 800m.
Despite the efforts of the remainder of the hunting party to treat the wound, he bled to death a short while later.
At the 2023 Chicago Marathon six months later in October 2023, he broke the world record by 34 seconds with a time of 2:00:35, a mark ratified on 6 February 2024—five days before his death—by the international track federation World Athletics.
In the emperor's absence, Caliph Muawiyah had sent a series of devastating raids into Anatolia, targeting chiefly the Armeniac theme.
This led to widespread conspiracies, particularly witchcraft, which is a major superstition in western and central Africa.
He was also twice a member of the Polish embassy to the Grand Master of the Teutonic Order and, as the primate of Poland, he held the post of a regent during the king's absence.
That October he came twelfth at the 2003 IAAF World Half Marathon Championships, aiding his country to fourth in the team rankings.
Uggla was then a teacher at the Military Academy Karlberg from 1926 to 1934, and he was promoted to major in 1933.
As part of the investigation, the video footage from Uragallo's cameras were handed over to a Swiss police unit.
Later that night, theatre lights were dimmed on Broadway in Manhattan and in the West End of London as a mark of respect.
The West might have felt very satisfied with their first innings score of 444, with their captain and Test opener Anshuman Gaekwad making 216.
A likeable guy, competitive and inspirational, and one of our true team leaders, and we missed him on the field enormously this season, undoubtedly on the field, but nowhere near as much as we will miss him now.
In the majority of cases where an autopsy was carried out, the cause of death was coronary heart disease.
Annapurna On 3 June 1950 on the 1950 French Annapurna expedition, along with Maurice Herzog, he reached the summit of Annapurna I in Nepal at a height of 8,091 m (26,545 ft).
Since early in the history of flight, non-human animals have been dropped from heights with the benefit of parachutes.
At the time of the Independence of British India in 1947, the maharaja delayed acceding Jaipur to the Dominion of India.
Takada died of a fall from Mount Hotakadake, (2,859 m) in Takayama City, Gifu Prefecture while on a backcountry skiing trip.
He was also inducted into the National Track and Field Hall of Fame in upper Manhattan where one of his Oregon track uniforms is on display.
As a junior, Fagernes competed on top national level in cycling, athletics, and cross country skiing, before deciding to focus on javelin.
Fernande Bochatay, Nicolas' aunt, won the bronze medal in the women's giant slalom during the 1968 Winter Olympics held in Grenoble, France.
Biography Nikola was born in Csáktornya, Kingdom of Hungary (now Čakovec, Croatia) to the Croatian Juraj V Zrinski and the Hungarian Magdolna (Magdalena) Széchy.
It was reported that he played in the match amid severe chest pain and died on the ground while fielding.
According to the memoirs of his grandson Charles-Joseph de Ligne, he died while hunting, waiting for a wild boar.
Prior to entering provincial politics, Hickey was a municipal councillor in Happy Valley-Goose Bay for 15 years, and served as mayor in 2003.
John Ainsworth Horrocks (22 March 1818 – 23 September 1846) was an English pastoralist and explorer who was one of the first European settlers in the Clare Valley of South Australia where, in 1840, he established the village of Penwortham.
Hughes' widow filed a $21.5 million malpractice lawsuit against Henry Ford Hospital in 1972 for failing to diagnose his condition after the Bills game.
Biography Prior to his career as a stuntman, Tipping served in the Royal Marines and 21st SAS Regiment.
Internal strife, lack of capable viziers, and the increasing authority of the Turkic slave-soldiers (ghulam) had also weakened the Samanid realm.
The direct cause of death was a coronary thrombosis that stopped the flow of blood to the heart, which caused a massive heart attack.
In 1960 he was the winner of the individual Nordic Championship, as well as a member of the Danish team that won the silver medal in the team time trial at that event.
Huang Guanjun (Chinese: 黄关军; pinyin: Huáng Guānjūn; 1987 – 22 May 2021) was a Chinese marathon runner; he died in the Gansu ultramarathon disaster.
Upbringing Alfonso was born at Sant'Anna Clinic in Rome, the elder son of Infante Jaime, Duke of Segovia, King Alfonso's second of four sons.
Although John fought hard for the Christian cause in the campaign in Syria, his allies, Prince Raymond of Antioch and Count Joscelin II of Edessa, remained in their camp playing dice and feasting instead of helping to press the siege of the city of Shaizar.
At the castle, they also adopted additional Slavic names (e.g., Jozef Hurban became Jozef Miloslav Hurban, etc.).
Policies introduced by Mason lead to an increase in prosperity of the state as evidenced in the large increase in the trade returns.
Death Chalibashvili died at the age of 21 following an accident during competition at the 1983 Summer Universiade in Edmonton, Alberta, when he hit his head on the platform while attempting a reverse 3½ somersault in the tuck position.
Pegasus and return to Hong Kong Takada finished his three-month contract with Persitara and then became a free agent.
Austria Lustenau Dwamena enjoyed a successful half-season with Austria Lustenau, scoring 18 goals in 20 games, before his transfer to FC Zürich.
Career During the 2014 Asian Junior Athletics Championships, she claimed a silver medal in the women's 400m hurdles event which was held in Taipei.
As the eldest son, he bore the title Marquis of Roubaix and accompanied his father on his mission to Charles II of England in 1660.
He made his debut in first-class cricket during his second year at Oxford, when he played for a combined Gentlemen of Kent and Sussex team against the Gentlemen of England at Lord's in 1857.
He completed his secondary at Nabakumar Institute in Dhaka and his higher secondary at Jagannath College.
Best management practices were also used to minimize the spread of noxious and invasive weeds during water level fluctuations and soil disturbances due to the new construction.
On 19 November of that year, Isabella arrived in Badajoz where she was welcomed by Afonso's uncle, Manuel, the future King Manuel I of Portugal, whom she would eventually marry six years after her husband's death.
See also List of fatalities while playing cricket References External links Wilf Slack at ESPNcricinfo Wisden Obituary – Wilf Slack ESPN Cricinfo, 1990
In that role she attempted to restore dedication to the original religious standards of her order and the resulting rancor with established members of her order caused her to found a new convent of the Bethlemite Sisters in Quetzeltenango in 1851.
Flying an A6M2 Zero fighter from the aircraft carrier Kaga during the attack on Pearl Harbor in December 1941, Yamamoto claimed to have destroyed a civilian sight-seeing aircraft over Oahu which had happened into the path of the Japanese first strike wave.
His death was investigated by the Essen district attorney's office, which published a final report on 9 July 2003.
A form of flying that they later popularized (anything that was not belly to earth) became known as freak-flying, eventually morphing into freeflying.
Holles was elected MP for Nottinghamshire as Lord Houghton on 14 January 1689, but was called to the House of Lords two days later when his father died and he became the 4th Earl of Clare.
Death During training for the Lauberhorn race, while entering the finish S (German: Ziel-S), Reinstadler lost control and crashed into safety nets at full speed, where one of his skis became trapped.
Simpson had been in constant contact with Helen, who was now working in Stuttgart, Germany, meeting with her between races.
References External links Giacinto Sertorelli at FIS (alpine) Giacinto Sertorelli at Olympedia Giacinto Sertorelli at InterSportStats
At least seven teenagers died during the fire; another two died in the Cagua Clinic and a tenth in the Central Hospital of Maracay, where one of the victims was receiving intensive care.
Pankration was a martial art blending boxing and wrestling as well as kicking and holds, joint-locks and chokes on the ground, making it similar to modern MMA.
The athletes listed here were either professional cyclists, professional pacemakers or well-known competitive amateurs who had a cycling-related death, mostly during a race or during training.
Kim Hyung-chil, died in December 2006 while competing in the cross-country part of the three-day event in the 2006 Asian Games.
In such cases, it is not uncommon for the pot's surface to be stained or otherwise weatherized to give a more vintage appearance.
However, the placement of the trees on the main thoroughfare through town adheres to the formula of placing memorials in dominant and central positions.
Types By fuel type Wood Gas By construction type Stone See also Firepit Fireplace Wood-fired oven Masonry oven Chimenea Brazier == References ==
History Originating back to the US in the 1940s, Maurice Mandell from the Connecticut Highway Department discovered that by mixing seed and water together, the resulting mulch could be spread and sprayed over the steep and otherwise inaccessible slopes of the Connecticut expressways.
The basement was built from large stone bricks, the Main floor was made up of smaller red bricks, and the upper floor/ attic area is defined by the beautifully sloped roof and ceramic tiles.
Later in the year, additional infrastructure in the form of a removable bulkhead was donated to the complex by the International Swimming League so the pool could be converted for use by the league, and more generally, in 25-metre (short course) competitions.
The succulent collection started in the existing greenhouse at Mythenquai, and was extended in 1948, 1954, 1961, 1984.
While an outdoor fireplace may not need to be cleaned as often, it will need to be cleaned regularly in order to keep it reasonably tidy and maintained and to remove ash build.
Examples of two-dimensional human form lawn ornaments include renditions of Amish and Pennsylvania Dutch people.
The end partaker of the water carried a secular patera, or small drinking bowl, around with him, dipping into an open trough for the water, as is suggested by the fact that at least some of the statues carried such paterae in one hand (though they may also have been performing libations).
However the staircase used was one from a mansion in London's Belgrave Square; it bore no relation to the appearance of the one on Titanic.
In 1743 the pond was purchased by William Kemp, a jeweller, who developed it by enclosing it in stone edging and adding marble steps and a gravel bottom.
It weighed 150 tons and was made up of 17 different pieces of granite, believed to have been quarried in nearby Ulfsunda.
Window boxes These containers fit on windowsills, and are suitable for flowers, herbs, and small vegetables.
Construction on the baths began in 1895, and the baths officially opened on 16 March 1898, leading the mayor of New York City to state: "There is no public bathing establishment even approximating this in the United States." The building survived heavy bombing of the area in World War II.
He served as private secretary to King William IV (when William was the Duke of Clarence) from 1827 to 1828, and Spencer was knighted for his services.
The desirability of providing an open-air swimming bath in the Borough was first considered by the Baths and Wash-houses Committee in April 1919 and October 2021.
Artificial ruins or imitation ruins are edifice fragments built to resemble real remnants of ancient ruins in European landscape parks and estates of the nobility of the 18th and 19th centuries.
The names of these elements still comprise the usual vocabulary for discussion: the pediment, metope, frieze, caryatid, quadriga, acroteria, etc.
The Christian owners of the estate claim to be descended from a family of Christians who practiced their religion in secret during a time when Christianity was strictly regulated in Japan.
However, since the 1980s, house sizes have increased significantly and designs have become more elaborate and more complex.
Its original design envisioned a foyer, guest room, stairway to the tower, and two bedrooms on two different levels within the tower.
G Scale is the most popular scale for garden railroads, though 16 mm scale also has a following, especially in the United Kingdom.
Besides the guests' entrance, there may be several more entrances; at minimum there is an entrance for the host known as the sadōguchi, which allows access to the mizuya.
A lawn mower wheel can be run on the curbing which helps eliminate the need for edging where a curb is installed.
The combination stair is a T-shaped compromise design popular in the nineteenth century that was found in some moderate-sized houses.
The material is great for indoor or outdoor use because it will not corrode or rust, is very low maintenance, and can be manufactured to complement any facility.
Electric fences are used in similar fashion at some high-security prisons and certain other installations.
Curtail An ornate tread that follows the spiral of a volute handrail, the back of the tread will cut into itself and then return along the flight.
Cartoon characters have also been licensed, including Garfield, Scooby-Doo, Looney Tunes, Shrek, The Simpsons, and SpongeBob.
The official dedication ceremony was held in June 1934 and was attended by the Mayor, James Douglas Annand, and his wife.
Types Gazebos overlap with pavilions, kiosks, belvederes, follies, gloriettes, pergolas, and rotundas.
Route The Freihamer Allee starts at the Bodenseestraße (Bundesstraße 2) and goes under the railway line Munich-Herrsching, before passing through the Freiham estate.
Soon after the anniversary, the park undertook a major rebranding project in which the logo was changed, the previous slogan "It's a Hoot!
Formally established in 1931, the collection houses one of the largest and most important collections of succulent plants.
Cluysenaar nevertheless radically innovated in the monumental proportions and the three-level elevation he gave to his galleries.
Established in 1931, the pool was named after and originally occupied by the Mount Emily Reservoir, of which the pool was converted from.
Fisher was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2020 Birthday Honours for services to international trade and the creative industry.
He traveled, lived and worked as a painter and sculptor in over 50 countries around the world before arriving and deciding to settle in Rio de Janeiro in 1983.
Wardian cases unintentionally caused the introduction of many invasive species around the world, such as the Japanese honeysuckle, which invaded most of the United States and other countries from its native East Asia.
Around 1805, the lease was acquired by Joseph Watts, who drained the fish pond and constructed Baldwin Street on that part of the site.
As it turned out, the source was very likely part of the municipal water supply of ancient Greek Pisa.
The pool could hold approximately 650,000 gallons of fresh water that was supplied by an inlet well.
Sometime after Featherstone's retirement in 2000, Union Products began producing birds without the signature.
There are several different styles of hot tub insulation: some manufacturers fill the entire cabinet with foam, while others insulate the underside of the shell, the inside of the cabinet, or both.
Some design considerations allow the reduction of swimming resistance making the pool faster: namely, proper pool depth, elimination of currents, increased lane width, energy absorbing racing lane lines and gutters, and the use of other innovative hydraulic, acoustic and illumination designs.
Hardscape is hard landscape materials in the built environment structures that are incorporated into a landscape.
Nowadays Fjärilshuset is a national museum with the buildings being held privately and the land leased by Fjarilshuset Haga Tradgard AB.
They are suitable only for use on floors with a flat surface and are not usable on those with irregular surfaces.
Notes External links Home page on the Schönbrunn Palace website (in German) Further reading Gerhard Deimel, Kurt Vogl and Ingrid Gregor: Palast der Blüten – Das Schönbrunner Palmenhaus, Holzhausen, Vienna, 2002, ISBN 3-85493-052-6.
One downside noted regarding the tray system is due to the present of soil, plant replacements are often frequent due to fungal, insect, and other pathogens spreading, making this system more costly long-term.
The middle part is used as a restaurant, the left wing houses the Butterfly House, the right wing is used by the Austrian Federal Gardens authority as a greenhouse.
The secularization's requirement of a diocesan replacement of the regular clergy was met on May 28, 1848, when Reverend José M.
Evolution From the small wooden stool, the Step stool grew to allow grabbing objects from higher places.
Tool sheds These may contain hand tools and/or power tools used to repair automobiles or for construction.
The advantages of an imperial staircase became apparent during the 18th century, when Matthew Brettingham revolutionised the design of the piano nobile of the London town house.
Other popular scales are 1:29, 1:20.3 (representing 3 ft (914 mm) gauge prototypes on 45 mm (1.772 in) track, 16 mm (1:19).
One of the most famous streets in Paris, it consists of flights of stairs giving access to the top of the hill, the Sacré-Cœur Basilica, and the other attractions of the upper-Montmartre neighborhood.
This was sometimes simply to save on carpet and sometimes to expose features while preventing wear to the underlying surface.
It is considered an iconic tourist attraction of Rio de Janeiro with travellers from across the globe visiting it every day.
They are often disabled and wheelchair accessible routes offering viewing and experiencing the art for many.
Survivors described a large wave that swept the Boat Deck as the Titanic took her final plunge – this, or the wave produced by the collapse of the forward funnel, is often blamed for smashing through the dome and destroying the Grand Staircase.
If the coin landed heads up, the guardian of the well would grant the wish, but the wish of a tails up coin would be ignored.
It opened in 1989 and it was built to reduce the need for additional parking spaces near the Skydome stadium by providing a direct transportation link to the subway and GO trains.
Note: Marketing material and press releases for Citystars Sharm El Sheikh claim a larger area of 12.5 hectares (125,000 m2; 1,350,000 sq ft) Other swimming pool superlatives == References ==
This features three large rides and several more smaller rides and attractions all contained within a themed area.
In order to celebrate the opening, it held the Irving Oil Challenge Cup, which was well-received aside from the overflow of parking at the time.
They are generally designed to conform to the architecture, standards, and landscaping of connected houses or other buildings.
The Spencer Monument is a restored obelisk monument on the way to Valletta, in Blata l-Bajda, Malta, erected for Captain Sir Robert Cavendish Spencer, R.N., a cousin of the Governor of Malta, Sir Frederick Ponsonby (1783–1837).
Measurements A garden railway's scale is usually in the range of 1/32 (Gauge 1) to 1/12 (1:12), running on either 45 mm (1.772 in) or 32 mm (1.26 in) gauge track.
History Initial planning and proposals for the Qplex began in 2007; at this time, the facility was to have an ice rink as well as a swimming pool.
Scandinavian grillhouses are usually built in octagonal or hexagonal shapes with glazed doors and large removable windows.
History The Benavides statue first stood in the Plaza de Santo Tomas in front of the original campus in Intramuros.
It is located in the Sonnenuhrhaus ("Sundial House"), which was built in 1904 as the newest of the four botanical houses in Schönbrunn Palace Park.
Tulgey Wood The first and easiest part of the Labyrinth focuses on Alice's journey through Wonderland.
Annual variations in sun exposure need to be taken into account; space under deciduous trees may be seasonally sunny, and require sun-tolerant species.
Sterilization Commercially available potting soil is sterilized, in order to avoid the spread of weeds and plant-borne diseases.
Although their historical origin is unknown, stepping stones, along with log bridges, are likely to have been among the earliest means of crossing inland bodies of water devised by humans.
A plants' roots can sense its surroundings, including the size of the pot it is in, and increasing the pot size allows plant size to increase proportionally.
An infinity pool is a reflecting pool or swimming pool where the water flows over one or more edges, producing a visual effect of water with no boundary.
When this is accomplished, and the pond is a sustainable ecosystem pond, try not to change out the water too often because you could be upsetting the natural balance of the pond.
Before 1600 plats had already become usual for forecourts, which were left plain so as not to distract from the entrance front of the house.
The two rows of trees forming the avenue are spaced 23 metres (75 ft) apart, with trees in each row separated by 16 metres (52 ft).
Fionn accepted the challenge and built the causeway across the North Channel so that the two could meet.
Opened on 23 April 1925, it measured 1,000 by 150 ft (300 by 50 m) and was so large that the lifeguards required kayaks for patrol.
An equestrian staircase or riders' staircase is a very gently sloping flight of steps that can be negotiated by horses.
The most common modern type is made with two separate ladders connected to each other at the upper end, where there is a platform with an area big enough to stand with both feet on it, having the rest of steps the same area, but not in all models, for some step stools have classical ladder steps.
Some threatened bat species can be locally supported with the provision of appropriately placed bat-boxes; however, species that roost in foliage or large cavities will not use bat boxes.
Staircases provide vertical access to connected floors in a multi-story building, and are a functional part of it.
Unfortunate soldiers were left struggling to rise under the weight of their equipment in the intractable and sometimes deep water or mud.
Historically, fire baskets were used in lighthouses, such as Skagen's White Lighthouse, as the beacon.
Bishop, Robert and Coblentz, Patricia; A Gallery of American Weathervanes and Whirligigs (ISBN 0525476520 / 0-525-47652-0); E.P.
The obelisk was originally to have been much larger, but while it was being transported to its intended location in 1928, it broke in two, and only part could be salvaged.
This protects the underlying surface from developing damage or staining due to exposure to excess water, soil, and drips from the potplant.
Nutrients and chemistry All plants need essential plant nutrients to grow, so it is important to make sure there is a sufficient amount in the potting soil.
Laurel Bank Park has been highly valued by the Toowoomba community and horticultural enthusiasts since SG Stephens gifted the park to the city in 1932.
Funds for the pool’s construction came from the Black community’s grassroots fundraising efforts and a $40,000 donation from Chapel Hill resident and former UNC librarian, Cornelia S.
It starts with guests entering the White Rabbit's Hole, and arriving in a wood featuring strange animals, doors of various sizes (for instance some can only be opened by children), and several signs with conflicting directions.
The Palmenhaus (Palm House), also known as the Glashaus (Glass House), is a building in the Innere Stadt district of Vienna.
The Borghese Vase is a monumental bell-shaped krater sculpted in Athens from Pentelic marble in the second half of the 1st century BC as a garden ornament for the Roman market; it is now in the Louvre Museum.
History In "I quattro libri dell'architettura", Andrea Palladio commended staircases that are "void in the middle, because they can have the light from above" and because it is visible whether someone is already ascending or descending the stairs.
Grilltables and chimneys are made in different shapes and the materials used range from granite stone to stainless steel.
In 1991 StairMaster Exercise Systems, sued Temecula, California based Tru-Trac Therapy Products Inc.
Westfield CastleCourt, a major shopping centre owned by the Westfield Group, is also on Royal Avenue, and as of 2023, it hosts over 100 stores, including New Look, Superdrug, Burton, Argos, Games Workshop, and Virgin Media.
"Safety edges" ensure that if there is any obstruction on the stairs the stair lift will automatically stop and only travel away from the obstruction.
Many mature trees in the park demonstrate these practices, being cooler climate specimens imported from places such as China, Japan and South America.
John's, Newfoundland, Canada, the "Grand Concourse" is an integrated walkway system that has over 160 kilometers (99 mi) of walkways, which link every major park, river, pond, and green space in six municipalities.
The Index Herbariorum code assigned to this botanic garden is BR, which is used when citing housed specimens.
In 2010, Cado Manufacturing purchased the copyrights and the entire Union Products product line, including the pink flamingo, from HMC.
There are many different straw mazes through the United States including: The Straw Maze in Idaho and Pumpkins and More in Maryland.
Film The Maze Television Scooby-Doo - numerous entries in the franchise (and its tie-in materials in other media) over its long history.
Moreover, they have spurred variants such as the Climatron at the Missouri Botanical Garden, the Biotron at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, the Ecotron at Imperial College London and the Brisatron at the Savannah River Ecology Laboratory.
European Pre-Columbian North and South America Post-contact North and South America United States Not until about 1870 did the U.S.
During the Middle Ages, Roman aqueducts were wrecked or fell into decay, and many fountains throughout Europe stopped working, so fountains existed mainly in art and literature, or in secluded monasteries or palace gardens.
Aeration Underwater aeration presumably circulates water more effectively, as it diffuses air at the pool’s bottom.
The architecture combines elements of Soviet modernism with traditional Armenian architecture, including decorative reliefs and bas-reliefs with elements of Armenian khachkars (cross-stones), ornaments with traditional images of grapevines, pomegranates, the tree of life, and other symbols.
Later, the very similar equestrian staircases were built as showpieces in palaces, for riders to climb to the upper floors on horseback.
In cookery, another French meaning, a dish that is cooked or served with a mixture of spring vegetables, such as peas, carrots, and green beans, is also used.
A combination stair is an architectural element found in traditional houses in North America where two sets of stairs merge into one at a landing.
The designs may be cut earlier in the season, when the corn plants are shorter (about 12 inches (30 cm) tall), or during the summer, when they are taller.
Convinced of the need for public museums to supplement science curricula at all levels, he toured Europe and studied museums on a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1965.
These included roads in the middle of nowhere, between two seemingly random points, screen and estate walls, piers in the middle of bogs, etc.
The design was inspired by Memorial 22/03, a land-art work by Smets honouring victims of the 2016 Brussels bombings, and it aims to serve as a physical representation of human rights.
Some of the benefits of indoor waterfalls are considered to be their production of white noise, humidity, as well as naturally peaceful feelings engendered among onlookers.
A variation of the Pennsylvania Dutch human form is a depiction of an older female bending over as in gardening, thus revealing her undergarments.
Description Since 'wall to wall' fitted carpeting became very popular in the late 1950s, the word can now also describe a less notable design element than it traditionally did formerly.
However, because they are normally significantly lighter than vehicular bridges, they are more vulnerable to vibration and therefore dynamics effects are often given more attention in design.
Although the oldest example dates back to the 5th century BC, it was only in the wake of the influential design of the Trajan's Column that this space-saving new type permanently caught hold in ancient Roman architecture.
Orangeries, as they came to be called, were typically enclosed structures built with wood, brick or stone with tall vertical windows on the south walls.
Nokkakivi (Finnish: [ˈnokːɑˌkiʋi]; translates to "Beak Rock") is an amusement park in Lievestuore, Laukaa, Finland.
Security electric fences consist of wires that carry pulses of electric current to provide a non-lethal shock to deter potential intruders.
External links Media related to Images of garden railways at Wikimedia Commons Large Scale Central Garden Railways Magazine DCCWiki article on Garden Railroads with links to using DCC in the garden.
Such structures include: See also Summer house, building or shelter used for relaxation in warm weather
It consisted of a bronze statue of the emperor on a horse, placed on a stone pedestal, with bronze sculptures of the soldiers around it.
Residential driveways may serve as the place for conducting garage sales, automobile washing and repair, and recreation, notably (in North America) for basketball practice.
Some materials used for driveways include concrete, decorative brick, cobblestone, block paving, asphalt, gravel, resin-bound paving, and decomposed granite.
The baths had a first- and second-class pool for men, as well as a pool for women known as the "small swim".
Fuels Firewood is most commonly used for fuel; pressure-treated lumber is not recommended but hardwood is the best.
Herodes liberated Olympia from dependence on local water and brought in water from the Pisa municipal system, which was probably already tapping the Erymanthos, as there was plenty of water for all.
Architecture The architectural design of the monument dedicated to Duke of Caxias, known as the Acoustic Shell, includes an obelisk in the front.
The Golden Tea Room (黄金の茶室, Ōgon no chashitsu) was a portable gilded chashitsu constructed during the 16th century Azuchi–Momoyama period for the Japanese regent Lord Toyotomi Hideyoshi's tea ceremonies.
This formed a first step towards Art Nouveau architecture, a style that was further developed by Victor Horta, who served as an apprentice of Balat's.
Formation Plunge pools are formed by the natural force of falling water, such as at a waterfall or cascade; they also result from man-made structures such as some spillway designs.
It consisted of a 17-metre-tall obelisk made from reinforced concrete covered in sandstone tiles, a sculpture of a soldier and worker holding hands, and a concrete sculpture of a Soviet five-side star on the top.
This was supposedly to provide scrap metal for munitions, but there is some scepticism as to whether they were actually used for this purpose.
While indoor fireplaces are traditionally designed for heating, an outdoor fireplace is usually used for cooking.
They are typically found along walking trails and state parks, while high-quality wood products like teak, redwood and mahogany are commonly found in residential furniture lines, resorts and restaurant settings.
Ornaments and sculptures The traditional bird bath is made of molded concrete or glazed terra cotta formed in two pieces: the bowl and the pedestal.
There are soft landscaping options that can help to achieve this, but the bulk of this is achieved through hard landscaping.
The pulses were wide and the voltage unpredictable, with no-load peaks in excess of 10,000 volts and a rapid drop in voltage as the fence leakage increased, which had the liability of the switch mechanism failing.
2017–2020 replacement By 2012, the obelisk was showing signs of significant deterioration and the area around the monument was fenced off to protect the public from possible falling stones.
He conceived the idea of an avenue of oak trees to be planted by all the Prime Ministers of Australia or their nearest surviving relative.
Faced with considerable death duties he sold large parts of the wider estates; to allow Longleat itself to survive, he opened the house to public visitors.
In July 2020, in response to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in Belgium, Belgian explorer and adventurer Louis-Philippe Loncke ascended and descended the staircase 135 times carrying a 15 kg (33 lb) backpack, simulating an ascent of Mount Everest.
John Flaxman based a bas-relief on the frieze of the Borghese Vase (Sir John Soane's Museum, London).
See also List of individual rocks List of tourist attractions in Ireland Tessellated pavement Ireland portal Volcanoes portal References Further reading Deane, C.
The large example, completed in 1848, in Kew Gardens, London was arguably the first greenhouse to be built on this scale.
The place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.
Once lit with gas candelabras, the galleries now boast LED scenographic lighting, allowing for sound and light projections.
An exedra was normally a public feature: when rhetoricians and philosophers disputed in a Roman gymnasium it was in an exedra opening into the peristyle that they gathered.
If the maze is not simply-connected and one begins wall-following at an arbitrary point inside the maze, one could find themselves trapped along a separate wall that loops around on itself and containing no entrances or exits.
In its complete, original form (some of its elements may be either missing or additions), like the gorintō and the pagoda, the dai-dōrō represents the five elements of Buddhist cosmology.
Charles built the stumpery from sweet chestnut roots, held in place by steel bars, when he first purchased the estate in 1980, and it now provides a home for organically grown ferns, hellebores and hostas.
In the early 20th Century, it was not always affordable to heat the pool so between the 1920s and 1960s it was boarded over during the winter months and used as a dancehall.
Architectural lanterns are part of a larger roof and provide natural light into the space or room below.
A substantial part of the cultural landscape complex is covered in pine forests, known as the "Pine−wood" (Boří les), and in areas adjacent to the Thaya River with riparian forests.
Infants typically learned to descend stairs after they have already learned to ascend, with only about 12% achieved both stair-climbing skills at the same time.
In popular culture The stairs of Rue Foyatier figure prominently in the 2023 film John Wick: Chapter 4 and the 1974 film Celine and Julie Go Boating.
The Swallow's Nest is one of the most popular visitor attractions in Crimea, having become the symbol of Crimea's southern coastline.
In cities and towns, residents filled vessels or jars of water jets from the canons of the fountain or paid a water porter to bring the water to their home.
Archaeological research by the Italian IsMEO at the Butkara Stupa suggests that small decorative stairs were adjoined to Buddhist stupas at the time of the Indo-Greek Kingdom, and that they were decorated with Buddhist scenes.
The Rue Foyatier is a street on the Montmartre butte ("outlier"), in the 18th arrondissement of Paris.
Due to the need of professional installation, concrete landscape curbing is usually utilized as a complete system to create a permanent border.
Stair lifts are available with either a manual swivel or a powered swivel, depending on the users ability.
A traditional stair carpet was characterized by not covering the full width of the stair but leaving the underlying wood−stone−tile of the tread and risers open to view on the sides.
One of the stone benches on the promenade extending from the staircase was made in a way where the name of the deceased, Aksentije Jovanović, was clearly visible, together with the carved cross and skull and crossbones.
It consists of workshops and an online library of resources available to participants in the institute.
In addition to finding paths between two locations of the grid (maze), the algorithm can detect when there is no path between the source and destination.
Delta Dental Stadium, Manchester, New Hampshire, United States In 2019, the New Hampshire Fisher Cats began the transition to make Delta Dental Stadium the first professional baseball field that is organically managed.
Round Up has been in three other Finnish amusement parks: 1961–1976 in Linnanmäki, 1977 in Särkänniemi and 1986–2002 in Tykkimäki, before it came to Nokkakivi park for its opening season.
The introduction of steam ships meant that the pineapple pit became obsolete, as it was cheaper to transport fruit from overseas than to grow them under special conditions in the UK.
The post has rings carved at the bottom, middle and top, and the hexagonal base and middle platform may be carved with lotuses or other auspicious motifs.
These materials do not require yearly paint or stain like a wooden pergola would, and their manufacture can make them even stronger and longer-lasting than a wooden pergola.
In France they sometimes took the form of romantic farmhouses, mills and cottages, as in Marie Antoinette's Hameau de la Reine at Versailles.
Lewis Carroll's Alice's Adventures in Wonderland/Through the Looking-Glass duology does not have such a scene, but a hedge maze is included in some film and television adaptations.
The interiors were also typically decorated with marble mosaics and with painted wooden ceilings, while the water from the cistern often trickled over an ornamental carved marble panel (known as a salsabil) before being collected by the sabil's attendant.
The object may be carefully removed from its wrapping after 2–3 days for trimming and/or distressing, after which it is re-wrapped for another 3–5 days, at which time it is no longer considered "green" and can be handled & worked without danger of breakage.
There are a variety of methods and substances that can be used to clean a bird bath, including small quantities of bleach, oregano or olive oil, or commercially available, non-toxic cleaning products.
The downside to propane is that you need to purchase a separate tank for each heater you own and can be more costly to operate than electric or natural gas.
The greenhouses are also sometimes used today for contemporary art exhibits and displays, such as Alexandre Dang's The Dancing Solar Forget-Me-Not for the International Day of Missing Children (in cooperation with Child Focus) in 2010.
They are now part of the Royal Domain of Laeken and the royal private gardens belonging to the Belgian royal family, and are accessible to the public only a few days a year.
The tower is constructed of 5000 hand-made bricks and has 276 steps made of concrete slabs reinforced with rebar.
The other is in fragments split between the Naples Archaeological Museum and the Museo archeologico nazionale di Palestrina, having been originally erected in Palestrina.
Such temporary exposed stairways are sometimes used in conjunction with scaffolding on construction sites, or permanently as an emergency exit.
It is intended to be more attractive than the terracotta (or today, plastic) flowerpot in which the plant grows, and to keep water off furniture surfaces.
The memorial was built during the reign of Krishna Raja Wadiyar IV in 1907 as a mark of gratitude by the Wadiyars for getting back their throne from the Sultans.
Muscat, the War Memorial "is possibly the sole example of a work of art in Malta which up to a certain extent illustrates the idea of Futurism put forward by Marinetti and Sant'Elia in Italy...
Only the fences were retained from the original design of the plaza, which were based on a 1936 Unitas.
Design A cachepot is typically made of glass, ceramic, iron, tin or other impervious material, and is chosen based on its appearance.
In the US, architect John Lautner has been credited as one of the first to come up with an infinity pool design in the early 1960s.
For uncountable regular cardinals κ {\displaystyle \kappa } (and some other cardinals) this can be strengthened to κ → ( κ , ω + 1 ) 2 {\displaystyle \kappa \rightarrow (\kappa ,\omega +1)^{2}} ; however, it is consistent that this strengthening does not hold for the cardinality of the continuum.
In the mathematical theory of infinite graphs, the Erdős–Dushnik–Miller theorem is a form of Ramsey's theorem stating that every infinite graph contains either a countably infinite independent set, or a clique with the same cardinality as the whole graph.
Frucht proved that in fact countably many 3-regular graphs with the desired property exist; for instance, the Frucht graph, a 3-regular graph with 12 vertices and 18 edges, has no nontrivial symmetries, providing a realization of this type for the trivial group.
Such a path would intersect the 1-3 colored path we constructed before since v 1 {\displaystyle v_{1}} through v 5 {\displaystyle v_{5}} were in cyclic order.
The cube has a volume equal to that of 27 {\displaystyle 27} bricks, but only 26 {\displaystyle 26} bricks may be packed into it.
Chudnovsky, Maria; Robertson, Neil; Seymour, Paul; Thomas, Robin (2003), "Progress on perfect graphs" (PDF), Mathematical Programming, Series B., 97 (1–2): 405–422, doi:10.1007/s10107-003-0449-8, MR 2004404.
Informally it can also be understood as the statement that point configurations of a fixed combinatorics can show arbitrarily complicated behavior.
For instance, let r k ( n ) {\displaystyle r_{k}(n)} denote the minimum number of colors required so that there exists an r k ( n ) {\displaystyle r_{k}(n)} -coloring of [ 1 , n ] {\displaystyle [1,n]} that avoids any monochromatic k {\displaystyle k} -term arithmetic progression.
The requirement that the sum of the degrees be even is the handshaking lemma, already used by Euler in his 1736 paper on the bridges of Königsberg.
The equation system can be resolved after S, resulting in a single algebraic equation: ⁠ x ( 2 x − 1 ) S 2 + ( 2 x − 1 ) S + 1 = 0 {\displaystyle x(2x-1)S^{2}+(2x-1)S+1=0} ⁠.
The fitness of a string is a measure of the value of the encoded problem solution, as computed by a problem-specific evaluation function.
Mahaney's theorem is a theorem in computational complexity theory proven by Stephen Mahaney that states thatIf any sparse language is NP-hard, then P=NP.Note that the existence of an NP-hard sparse set implies the existence of an NP-complete sparse set.
In incidence geometry, the De Bruijn–Erdős theorem, originally published by Nicolaas Govert de Bruijn and Paul Erdős in 1948, states a lower bound on the number of lines determined by n points in a projective plane.
Moreover, any superiority of an algorithm that never reevaluates candidates over another algorithm that does on a particular problem may have nothing to do with specialization to the problem.
Therefore, by unrestricting a colouring in Dk to a colouring in Dk+1, and continuing doing so, one constructs a colouring of N ( n ) {\displaystyle \mathbb {N} ^{(n)}} without any monochromatic set of size T.
In computational complexity theory, a speedup theorem is a theorem that for any algorithm (of a certain class) demonstrates the existence of a more efficient algorithm solving the same problem.
^ d Friedman actually writes this as 2[1000], which denotes an exponential stack of 2's of height 1000 using his notation.
In graph theory, Kuratowski's theorem is a mathematical forbidden graph characterization of planar graphs, named after Kazimierz Kuratowski.
For proving the former apply Rado's theorem to the matrix ( 1 1 − 1 ) {\displaystyle (1\ 1\ {-1})} .
, f d − 1 ) {\displaystyle (f_{0},f_{1},...,f_{d-1})} is the f-vector of some ( d − 1 ) {\displaystyle (d-1)} -dimensional simplicial complex if and only if 0 ≤ f i ( i ) ≤ f i − 1 , 1 ≤ i ≤ d − 1.
If the removal of point a produces a set of collinear points then P generates a near pencil of n lines (the n - 1 ordinary lines through a plus the one line containing the other n - 1 points).
( f ( t 11 , … , t m 1 ) , … , f ( t 1 k , … , t m k ) ) {\displaystyle (f(t_{11},\dotsc ,t_{m1}),\dotsc ,f(t_{1k},\dotsc ,t_{mk}))} , is in R.
The Schema Theorem says that short, low-order schemata with above-average fitness increase exponentially in frequency in successive generations.
Next, the output of the first instance of Gl is divided into two parts: first l bits are fed into the second instance of Gl as a seed, while the last bit becomes the first bit of the output.
Since it is a non-trivial linear subspace of R n {\displaystyle \mathbf {R} ^{n}} with fewer constraints than variables, there is a non-zero solution.
A graph is perfect if and only if its complement is perfect, and Kőnig's theorem can be seen as equivalent to the statement that the complement of a bipartite graph is perfect.
Gibbard's theorem states that a deterministic process of collective decision cannot be strategyproof, except possibly in two cases: if there is a distinguished agent who has a dictatorial power (unilateral), or if the process limits the outcome to two possible options only (duple).
First theorem [in 1990] Subsequently, the methods used in this work were extended by Babai, Lance Fortnow, Levin, and Szegedy in 1991 (Babai et al.
(1975), "Ramsey's theorem with sums or unions", Journal of Combinatorial Theory, Series A, 18 (3): 276–290, doi:10.1016/0097-3165(75)90039-4, MR 0373906.
{\displaystyle {\Bigl |}{\bigl [}(k+1)na{\bigr ]}-p{\Bigr |}<{\frac {1}{M}}<\varepsilon .} Variants occur in a number of proofs.
Graphon version of counting lemma The space W ~ 0 {\displaystyle {\tilde {\mathcal {W}}}_{0}} of graphons is given the structure of a metric space where the metric is the cut distance δ ◻ {\displaystyle \delta _{\Box }} .
A third formulation is in terms of degree sequences of simple directed graphs with at most one loop per vertex.
This reasoning can be made precise by stating that the size of a maximum matching is at most equal to the value given by the Tutte–Berge formula.
Assuming London has 9.002 million people, it follows that at least ten Londoners have the same number of hairs, as having nine Londoners in each of the 1 million pigeonholes accounts for only 9 million people.
(1997), "The hidden algorithm of Ore's theorem on Hamiltonian cycles", Computers & Mathematics with Applications, 34 (11): 113–119, doi:10.1016/S0898-1221(97)00225-3, MR 1486890.
Intuitively, if f {\displaystyle f} is represented as a pile of square blocks, where the n {\displaystyle n} th column has height f ( n ) {\displaystyle f(n)} , then T ( f ) {\displaystyle T(f)} is the result of removing the bottom row.
By the Jordan curve theorem, C {\displaystyle C} separates the plane into the subset inside of C {\displaystyle C} and the subset outside of C {\displaystyle C} ; every face belongs to one of these two subsets.
Then there exists a subset S of X with the size at most |C| − 1 such that S is a witness set for every concept in C.
BH(n) Suppose a tree consists of just one branch with x {\displaystyle x} nodes, labelled + , 0 , ω , .
Graphs where every vertex has degree less than or equal to 2 must consist of either isolated vertices, cycles, and paths.
The Ahlswede–Daykin inequality (Ahlswede & Daykin 1978), also known as the four functions theorem (or inequality), is a correlation-type inequality for four functions on a finite distributive lattice.
Let L ( x ) {\displaystyle L(x)} be a slowly varying function which is either convex or concave from some point onward.
In other words, the probability that x ≺ z {\displaystyle x\prec z} increases if one adds the condition that x ≺ y {\displaystyle x\prec y} .
(1950), "Combinatorial problems", Canadian Journal of Mathematics, 2: 93–99, doi:10.4153/cjm-1950-009-8, S2CID 247194753 Lam, C.
In particular, every countably infinite graph with only one end and with no odd vertices can be written as a union of disjoint cycles.
Extensions Each edge belongs to some perfect matching in cubic bridgeless graphs Schönberger strengthened Petersen's theorem in 1934 by showing that each edge of any cubic bridgeless graph belongs to some perfect matching.
A context-free language is regular, if it can be described by a regular expression, or, equivalently, if it is accepted by a finite automaton.
More strongly, the number of colors can be as large as exp ⁡ log 2 − o ( 1 ) ⁡ k {\displaystyle \exp \log ^{2-o(1)}k} , tight up to the o ( 1 ) {\displaystyle o(1)} term in the exponent.
The extended form (case 2b) does apply, giving the solution T ( n ) = Θ ( n log ⁡ log ⁡ n ) {\displaystyle T(n)=\Theta (n\log \log n)} .
it gives a necessary and sufficient condition for two finite sequences of natural numbers to be the degree sequence of a labeled simple bipartite graph; a sequence obeying these conditions is called "bigraphic".
This yields the functional equation on the generating function B ( z ) = ∑ n = 0 ∞ B n z n : {\displaystyle \textstyle B(z)=\sum _{n=0}^{\infty }B_{n}z^{n}{\text{:}}} B ( z ) = 1 + z B ( z ) 2 .
The idea of the proof is as follows: first s bits from uniform distribution Ul are picked and used as the seed to the first instance of Gl, which is known to be a pseudorandom generator.
The same argument shows that doubling preserves the equality of the clique number and the chromatic number in every induced subgraph of the given graph, so each doubling step preserves the perfection of the graph.
The leaves of the tree are the base cases of the recursion, the subproblems (of size less than k) that do not recurse.
Form a bipartite graph between these two sets, joining each b ∈ B {\displaystyle b\in B} to F b ( T ) {\displaystyle F_{b}(T)} , and find a perfect matching in this bipartite graph.
First, it is established that Σ P ⋅ B P ⋅ ⊕ P ⊆ B P ⋅ ⊕ P {\displaystyle \Sigma ^{P}\cdot {\mathsf {BP}}\cdot \oplus {\mathsf {P}}\subseteq {\mathsf {BP}}\cdot \oplus {\mathsf {P}}} The proof uses a variation of Valiant–Vazirani theorem.
Accordingly, let G be a graph on n ≥ 3 vertices that is not Hamiltonian, and let H be formed from G by adding edges one at a time that do not create a Hamiltonian cycle, until no more edges can be added.
We can now define M:=M2 Δ C (where Δ is symmetric difference) and we obtain a perfect matching in G, a contradiction.
Galvin's proof generalizes to the statement that, for every bipartite multigraph, the list chromatic index equals its chromatic index.
Example Consider the 4 × 4 matrix [ 1 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 ] {\displaystyle {\begin{bmatrix}1&1&0&1\\0&1&0&1\\0&0&1&1\\0&1&1&0\end{bmatrix}}} where all rows are pairwise distinct.
Proof A proof of a weaker result, ⁠ N P ⊆ P C P [ n 3 , 1 ] {\displaystyle {\mathsf {NP}}\subseteq {\mathsf {PCP}}[n^{3},1]} ⁠ is given in one of the lectures of Dexter Kozen.
The class P#P consists of all problems that can be solved in polynomial time if you have access to instantaneous answers to any counting problem in #P (polynomial time relative to a #P oracle).
Instead, Barnette's conjecture, still unproven, weakens Tait's conjecture in a different way, to bipartite planar graphs.
This is the special case of the Gallai–Hasse–Roy–Vitaver theorem for two colors: a graph is bipartite (can be colored with two colors) if and only if it has an orientation with no three-vertex paths.
Because f {\displaystyle f} is affine, the convex hull of { x i : i ∈ A j } {\displaystyle \{x_{i}:i\in A_{j}\}} is the image of the face spanned by the vertices { v i : i ∈ A j } {\displaystyle \{v_{i}:i\in A_{j}\}} for all j ∈ [ r ] {\displaystyle j\in [r]} .
Positive responsiveness: If the social choice was indifferent between A and B, but a voter who previously preferred B changes their preference to A, then the social choice becomes A.
Let the edges be coloured red or blue depending on whether the two people represented by the vertices connected by the edge are mutual strangers or mutual acquaintances, respectively.
Each computable function has an infinite number of different program representations in a given programming language.
Now the following are equivalent: All irredundant bases of G {\displaystyle G} have the same size; The irredundant bases of G {\displaystyle G} are preserved by re-ordering; The irredundant bases of G {\displaystyle G} form the bases of a matroid.
The circuit c is a correct circuit for SAT if it satisfies two properties: For every pair (s,x) where s is an instance of SAT and x is a solution to the instance, c(s) must be true For every instance s of SAT for which c(s) is true, s must be solvable.
Statement Let X1, ..., Xn be a finite collection of convex subsets of R d {\displaystyle \mathbb {R} ^{d}} , with n ≥ d + 1 {\displaystyle n\geq d+1} .
It follows from Ramsey's theorem that for any graph G there exists a least integer r ( G ) {\displaystyle r(G)} , the Ramsey number of G, such that any complete graph on at least r ( G ) {\displaystyle r(G)} vertices whose edges are coloured red or blue contains a monochromatic copy of G.
Nevertheless, the theorem states that the only boxes that can be packed in this way are boxes that could also be packed by translates of the brick.
Explanation The key question that the threshold theorem resolves is whether quantum computers in practice could perform long computations without succumbing to noise.
For instance, if s {\displaystyle s} is any string, then the concatenation s s {\displaystyle ss} of two copies of s {\displaystyle s} is called the square of s {\displaystyle s} , and denoted s 2 {\displaystyle s^{2}} .
Statement Define a corner to be a subset of Z 2 {\displaystyle \mathbb {Z} ^{2}} of the form { ( x , y ) , ( x + h , y ) , ( x , y + h ) } {\displaystyle \{(x,y),(x+h,y),(x,y+h)\}} , where x , y , h ∈ Z {\displaystyle x,y,h\in \mathbb {Z} } and h ≠ 0 {\displaystyle h\neq 0} .
Soc., 62 (5): 427–489, doi:10.1090/S0002-9904-1956-10036-0, MR 0081864 Erdős, Paul; Hajnal, András; Rado, Richard (1965), "Partition relations for cardinal numbers", Acta Math.
Statement The greatest common divisors of the binomial coefficients forming each of the two triangles in the Star of David shape in Pascal's triangle are equal: gcd { ( n − 1 k − 1 ) , ( n k + 1 ) , ( n + 1 k ) } = gcd { ( n − 1 k ) , ( n k − 1 ) , ( n + 1 k + 1 ) } .
Donald Watson phrases this result more colorfully, with a farmyard analogy: If sheep and goats are grazing in a field and for every four animals there exists a line separating the sheep from the goats then there exists such a line for all the animals.
Previous partial results Previous partial or special-case results include the following: If G is a finite strongly connected aperiodic directed graph with no multiple edges, and G contains a simple cycle of prime length which is a proper subset of G, then G has a synchronizing coloring.
Video showing a sketch of the proof An Example of the Bolyai–Gerwien Theorem by Sándor Kabai, Ferenc Holló Szabó, and Lajos Szilassi, the Wolfram Demonstrations Project.
Packings of a harmonic brick into a box may involve copies of the brick that are rotated with respect to each other.
The existence of such a transformation implies that, if the algorithmic Steinitz problem has a polynomial time solution, then so does every problem in the existential theory of the reals, and every problem in NP.
Finally, consider a graph G with a set of vertices U such that, if we remove from G the vertices in U and all edges adjacent to them, the remaining graph (denoted G − U) has more than |U| odd components.
They showed that Huang's proof can be decomposed into two steps: deg ⁡ ( f ) ≤ λ ( f ) 2 {\displaystyle \deg(f)\leq \lambda (f)^{2}} .
A stronger conjecture of Arratia (1999) had stated that one could take C to be (k − 1)2, where k denotes the length of β, but this conjecture was disproved for the permutation β = 4231 by Albert et al.
In particular, if the only permutation possible is the identity (i.e., every n-tuple of non-intersecting paths from A to B takes ai to bi for each i) and we take the weights to be 1, then det(M) is exactly the number of non-intersecting n-tuples of paths starting at A and ending at B.
It is so called because such an embedding can be found as the equilibrium position for a system of springs representing the edges of the graph.
In 1930, in a paper entitled 'On a Problem of Formal Logic,' Frank Ramsey proved a very general theorem (now known as Ramsey's theorem) of which this theorem is a simple case.
It follows that every edge of G {\displaystyle G} is in exactly one triangle, so by the triangle removal lemma, G {\displaystyle G} has o ( | V ( G ) | 2 ) {\displaystyle o(|V(G)|^{2})} edges, so | A | = o ( N 2 ) {\displaystyle |A|=o(N^{2})} , as desired.
Tutte's spring theorem states that every 3-connected planar graph can be drawn on a plane without crossings so that its edges are straight line segments and an outside face is a convex polygon (Tutte 1963).
More generally, for finitely many red and blue points in d {\displaystyle d} -dimensional Euclidean space, if the red and blue points in every subset of d + 2 {\displaystyle d+2} of the points are linearly separable, then all the red points and all the blue points are linearly separable.
The left-hand class involves little o notation, referring to the set of decision problems solvable in asymptotically less than f(n) time.
That is, fixing an integer h ≥ 2 {\displaystyle h\geq 2} , for which functions f can we find a subset of the natural numbers B ⊆ N {\displaystyle {\mathcal {B}}\subseteq \mathbb {N} } satisfying r B , h ( n ) ≍ f ( n ) {\displaystyle r_{{\mathcal {B}},h}(n)\asymp f(n)} ?
The fact that the graph is acyclic implies that this is equivalent to "appearing at least twice in all the paths".
More generally, the Helly number of any discrete set of Euclidean points equals the maximum number of points that can be chosen to form the vertices of a convex polytope that contains no other point from the set.
Examples Serial dictatorship We assume that each voter communicates a strict weak order over the candidates.
Assume without loss of generality that d1 is even, and that M and N are the vertices incident to vertex 1 in the blue and red subgraphs, respectively.
Notes References Erdős, Paul; Hajnal, András; Máté, Attila; Rado, Richard (1984), Combinatorial set theory: partition relations for cardinals, Studies in Logic and the Foundations of Mathematics, vol.
In more detail, it consists of the following steps: Arbitrarily choose a triangle A B C {\displaystyle ABC} formed by three of the given points.
Specifically, Fox & Sudakov (2009) showed that there exists a constant cp such that, for any p-degenerate n-vertex graph G, r ( G ) ≤ 2 c p log ⁡ n n .
For a given graph G with n vertices, let 0 = λ0 ≤λ1 ≤ λ2 ≤...≤ λn−1 be the eigenvalues of its Laplacian matrix.
To prove that this process ends at some t ≥ ε n {\displaystyle t\geq \varepsilon n} , we will use contradiction.
Use and consequences The Myhill–Nerode theorem may be used to show that a language L {\displaystyle L} is regular by proving that the number of equivalence classes of ∼ L {\displaystyle \sim _{L}} is finite.
From any such representation on a sphere, embedded into three-dimensional Euclidean space, one can form a convex polyhedron that is combinatorially equivalent to the given graph, as an intersection of half-spaces whose boundaries pass through the face circles.
If f is a coloring of the r+1-element subsets of a set of cardinality expr(κ)+, in κ many colors, then there is a homogeneous set of cardinality κ+ (a set, all whose r+1-element subsets get the same f-value).
This means that there is a way to assign a sign to every edge of the hypercube so that this property is satisfied.
If it is filled with a cross, then the combinatorial line 11xxx2xx is filled entirely with crosses, contradicting our hypothesis.
We must obey the following constraint: each project specifies a set of machines which must be purchased if the project is selected.
There are ⌈ N / 2 ⌉ {\displaystyle \lceil N/2\rceil } odd numbers in [N ], and so 2 N / 2 {\displaystyle 2^{N/2}} subsets of odd numbers in [N ].
So every dissection of the square into triangles must contain at least one triangle whose area has a 2-adic valuation greater than 1.
The set of all combinatorial cubes of dimension d {\displaystyle d} , for strings of length n {\displaystyle n} over an alphabet A {\displaystyle A} with group action G {\displaystyle G} , is denoted [ A , G ] ( n d ) {\displaystyle [A,G]{\tbinom {n}{d}}} .
History The r = 2 case can be rephrased as stating that every complete graph with an even number of vertices has an edge coloring whose number of colors equals its degree, or equivalently that its edges may be partitioned into perfect matchings.
A more general relative Szemerédi theorem has since been given by David Conlon, Jacob Fox, and Yufei Zhao.
Therefore, numbers strictly between 1 and the golden ratio also cannot be growth rates of permutation classes.
We define y0,...,yk to be a maximal sequence of neighbours of x such that c0(xyi) is missing in yi−1 with respect to c0 for all 0 < i ≤ k.
{\displaystyle {a \choose b}={\frac {a!}{(a-b)!b!}}.} See also List of factorial and binomial topics References H.
Gibbard's 1978 theorem and Hylland's theorem extend these results to non-deterministic mechanisms, i.e.
A coloring with the number of colors described by Brooks' theorem is sometimes called a Brooks coloring or a Δ-coloring.
Ramshaw's algorithm was used for example in some Java decompilers because the Java virtual machine code has branch instructions with targets expressed as offsets, but the high-level Java language only has multi-level break and continue statements.
For the case of r = 2 and k = 3, for example, the argument given below shows that it is sufficient to color the integers {1, ..., 325} with two colors to guarantee there will be a single-colored arithmetic progression of length 3.
In 1969, Cartier and Foata found a new proof of MMT by combining algebraic and bijective ideas (built on Foata's thesis) and further applications to combinatorics on words, introducing the concept of traces.
Formulation In this context, a disjoint cycle cover is a set of simple cycles, no two of which use the same edge, that include all of the edges of a graph.
(1981), "The road-colouring problem", Israel Journal of Mathematics, 39 (1–2): 145–154, doi:10.1007/BF02762860.
Construction of an optimal partition A partition into exactly n − 1 {\displaystyle n-1} complete bipartite graphs is easy to obtain: just order the vertices, and for each vertex except the last, form a star connecting it to all later vertices in the ordering.
Bell and Herbert Scarf, who both rediscovered it in 1977 and pointed out its applications to integer programming.
In this case, P is either a projective plane or P is a near pencil, meaning that exactly n - 1 of the points are collinear.
Note, that since ƒ(x) is a permutation, then if x is drawn from uniform distribution, then so if ƒ(x).
Kemnitz's conjecture was formulated in 1983 by Arnfried Kemnitz as a generalization of the Erdős–Ginzburg–Ziv theorem, an analogous one-dimensional result stating that every 2 n − 1 {\displaystyle 2n-1} integers have a subset of size n {\displaystyle n} whose average is an integer.
In formal language theory, the Chomsky–Schützenberger enumeration theorem is a theorem derived by Noam Chomsky and Marcel-Paul Schützenberger about the number of words of a given length generated by an unambiguous context-free grammar.
The idea of the reduction is to successively intersect the solution space of the formula F with n random linear hyperplanes in F 2 n {\displaystyle \mathbb {F} _{2}^{n}} .
Namely, for some large enough k, M will use space ≤ f ( | ⟨ M ⟩ , 10 k | ) {\displaystyle \leq f(|\langle M\rangle ,10^{k}|)} on ( ⟨ M ⟩ , 10 k ) {\displaystyle (\langle M\rangle ,10^{k})} and will therefore differ at its value.
(2006), "Trémaux trees and planarity", International Journal of Foundations of Computer Science, 17 (5): 1017–1029, arXiv:math/0610935, doi:10.1142/S0129054106004248, S2CID 40107560.
Chudnovsky, Maria; Robertson, Neil; Seymour, Paul; Thomas, Robin (2006), "The strong perfect graph theorem", Annals of Mathematics, 164 (1): 51–229, arXiv:math/0212070, doi:10.4007/annals.2006.164.51, MR 2233847, S2CID 119151552.
As Aigner and Triesch show, this operation preserves the property of being graphic, so to prove the Erdős–Gallai theorem it suffices to characterize the graphic sequences that are maximal in this majorization order.
Flow is constrained by the weight of the associated edge and by the conservation of flow at each vertex as described here.
Any polyhedral graph can be reduced to K 4 {\displaystyle K_{4}} by a linear number of these operations, and again the operations can be reversed and the reversed operations performed geometrically, giving a polyhedral realization of the graph.
Using an approach similar to the one he used for the case k = 3, Roth gave a second proof for k = 4 in 1972.
So, with probability X k + 1 2 {\displaystyle {\frac {X_{k}+1}{2}}} , we have S n − k − 1 = S n − k − 1 {\displaystyle S_{n-k-1}=S_{n-k}-1} , and X k + 1 = n − k n − k − 1 X k − 1 n − k − 1 {\displaystyle X_{k+1}={\frac {n-k}{n-k-1}}X_{k}-{\frac {1}{n-k-1}}} .
This result can be confirmed by writing out each binomial coefficient in factorial form, using ( a b ) = a !
The theorem says that, for any such function, there exists some point y {\displaystyle y} on S d {\displaystyle S^{d}} , such that f ( g ( y ) ) = f ( g ( − y ) ) {\displaystyle f(g(y))=f(g(-y))} .
Satz 2 of Kneser's 1956 article says that all examples of sets satisfying equation (1) with non-null summands are obvious modifications of these.
Arrow initially asserted the information provided by these systems was meaningless and therefore could not be used to prevent paradoxes, leading him to overlook them.
{\displaystyle \left\lceil {\frac {rs-r-s+2}{r-1}}\right\rceil =s.} Alternatively, by Dilworth's theorem itself, either there is an antichain of length s, or the sequence can be partitioned into at most s − 1 chains, the longest of which must have length at least r.
In other words, whatever colours you use, there will always be at least one monochromatic triangle ( that is, a triangle all of whose edges have the same color ).
There is more information in the typical objective function or algorithm than Seth Lloyd estimates the observable universe is capable of registering.
Concepts related to Radon's theorem have also been considered for convex geometries, families of finite sets with the properties that the intersection of any two sets in the family remains in the family, and that the empty set and the union of all the sets belongs to the family.
Relation to other areas of mathematics Dror Bar-Natan gave a statement concerning Lie algebras and Vassiliev invariants which is equivalent to the four color theorem.
Additionally, it has been applied in graph drawing, as a way to construct three-dimensional visualizations of abstract graphs.
In additive number theory, Kemnitz's conjecture states that every set of integer lattice points in the plane has a large subset whose centroid is also a lattice point.
(Note that the line 13, 22, 31, while a valid line for the game tic-tac-toe, is not considered a combinatorial line.) In this particular case, the Hales–Jewett theorem does not apply; it is possible to divide the tic-tac-toe board into two sets, e.g.
Equivalently, in this graph, edges exist between all real numbers x {\displaystyle x} and all real numbers of the form x + q ± 2 {\displaystyle x+q\pm {\sqrt {2}}} , for rational numbers q {\displaystyle q} .
The perfect graph theorem of Lovász (1972) states that the complements of perfect graphs are always perfect, and can be used to deduce Dilworth's theorem from Mirsky's theorem and vice versa (Golumbic 1980).
Excluding a forest", Journal of Combinatorial Theory, Series B, 35 (1): 39–61, doi:10.1016/0095-8956(83)90079-5.
It states that every drawing in the plane of a non-planar graph contains a pair of independent edges (not both sharing an endpoint) that cross each other an odd number of times.
To prove Kőnig's theorem from Dilworth's theorem, for a bipartite graph G = (U,V,E), form a partial order on the vertices of G in which u < v exactly when u is in U, v is in V, and there exists an edge in E from u to v.
The result is tight: there exist systems of half-spaces for which every 2 d − 1 {\displaystyle 2^{d}-1} have an integer point in their intersection, but for which the whole system has no integer intersection.
Examples: Linear speedup theorem, that the space and time requirements of a Turing machine solving a decision problem can be reduced by a multiplicative constant factor.
Such problems are APX-hard but with an O ( log ⁡ n ) {\displaystyle O({\sqrt {\log n}})} approximation.
Any bipartite graph is perfect, because each of its subgraphs is either bipartite or independent; in a bipartite graph that is not independent the chromatic number and the size of the largest clique are both two while in an independent set the chromatic number and clique number are both one.
Every subfamily of F {\displaystyle {\mathcal {F}}} has equal size to the set of representatives it is mapped to, which is less than or equal to the size of the union of the subfamily.
That is, an s-t cut is a division of the vertices of the network into two parts, with the source in one part and the sink in the other.
The Symmetric Hypergraph Theorem can be used to show that r k ( n ) < 2 n log ⁡ n log ⁡ log ⁡ n ( 1 + o ( 1 ) ) {\displaystyle r_{k}(n)<{\frac {2n\log n}{\log \log n}}(1+o(1))} See also Ramsey theory Van der Waerden's theorem == Notes ==
Explicitly, F n , t , r {\displaystyle {\mathcal {F}}_{n,t,r}} is optimal in the range r t + 2 r − 1 ≤ p ≤ r + 1 t + 2 r + 1 .
This game form is strategyproof because it is always optimal to vote for one's most-liked alternative (unless one is indifferent between them).
In particular, Roth's theorem on arithmetic progressions follows directly from the ordinary corners theorem.
This does of course not exclude the possibility of finding the complexity of an optimal program for certain specific functions.
K r k {\displaystyle K_{r}^{k}} is a hypergraph with k vertices, in which every subset of r vertices forms a hyperedge; a 1-factor of this hypergraph is a set of hyperedges that touches each vertex exactly once, or equivalently a partition of the vertices into subsets of size r.
(2010), "A short constructive proof of the Erdős–Gallai characterization of graphic lists", Discrete Mathematics, 310 (4): 843–844, doi:10.1016/j.disc.2009.09.023, MR 2574834
Cauchy, "Recherche sur les polyèdres – premier mémoire", Journal de l'École Polytechnique 9 (1813), 66–86.
Then by the choice of x i {\displaystyle x_{i}} , P ∖ K {\displaystyle P\setminus K} does not have an antichain of size k {\displaystyle k} .
> 0 {\displaystyle \epsilon _{0}\geq \epsilon _{1}\geq ...>0} , there exists δ > 0 {\displaystyle \delta >0} such that there exists a partition P = V 1 , .
Statement of the theorem The statement of the result is that if 2 ≤ r < k {\displaystyle 2\leq r<k} are integers and r divides k, then the complete hypergraph K r k {\displaystyle K_{r}^{k}} decomposes into 1-factors.
It is clear that 1 log ⁡ n < n ϵ {\displaystyle {\frac {1}{\log n}}<n^{\epsilon }} for any constant ϵ > 0 {\displaystyle \epsilon >0} .
{\displaystyle |x(S_{j})|\leq 2t-1,\forall j{\text{ where }}x(S_{j}):=\sum _{i\in S_{j}}x_{i}.} Proof sketch The proof is based on a simple linear-algebraic argument.
Theodore Motzkin (1951) confirmed that it does by proving that t 2 ( n ) ≥ n {\displaystyle t_{2}(n)\geq {\sqrt {n}}} .
Therefore, the total number of such lines is O ( n 2 / 2 3 j + n / 2 j ) {\displaystyle O(n^{2}/2^{3j}+n/2^{j})} .
Since a quantum computer will not be able to perform gate operations perfectly, some small constant error is inevitable; hypothetically, this could mean that quantum computers with imperfect gates can only apply a constant number of gates before the computation is destroyed by noise.
Izbicki, Herbert (1959), "Unendliche Graphen endlichen Grades mit vorgegebenen Eigenschaften", Monatshefte für Mathematik, 63 (3): 298–301, doi:10.1007/BF01295203, MR 0105372.
Quantitative results Several versions of the theorem have been proved that more precisely characterise the relation of n, r, t and the o(1) term.
Furthermore, almost all total computable predicates are speedup-able, in the sense of the Baire category theorem.
History The upper bound conjecture for simplicial polytopes was proposed by Motzkin in 1957 and proved by McMullen in 1970.
∃ X C ′ ∀ ( a , b ) ∈ X C ′ lim V i n → ∞ ( v a b ) = ∞ {\displaystyle \exists X'_{C}\;\;\forall \;(a,b)\in X'_{C}\;\;\lim _{V_{in}\rightarrow \infty }(v_{ab})=\infty } This implies that: lim V i n → ∞ ( I i n ) = ∑ ( a , b ) ∈ X C ′ w a b ≥ min X C ∑ ( a , b ) ∈ X C w a b .
In the theory of formal languages, the Myhill–Nerode theorem provides a necessary and sufficient condition for a language to be regular.
Let m = | S | {\displaystyle m=|S|} , and let χ ( H ) {\displaystyle \chi (H)} denote the chromatic number of H {\displaystyle H} , and let α ( H ) {\displaystyle \alpha (H)} denote the independence number of H {\displaystyle H} .
up to n = k {\displaystyle n=k} .) Define B H ( x ) {\displaystyle BH(x)} as the smallest k {\displaystyle k} such that R x ( 1 ) ( 2 ) ( 3 ) .
While Ramsey's theorem makes it easy to prove that every infinite sequence of distinct real numbers contains a monotonically increasing infinite subsequence or a monotonically decreasing infinite subsequence, the result proved by Paul Erdős and George Szekeres goes further.
{\displaystyle S(n)\subset T(f(n)).} Intuitively, for S to be strongly embedded in T, S must be a subset of T with the induced partial order.
The Star of David theorem is a mathematical result on arithmetic properties of binomial coefficients.
A special case of the Graham–Rothschild theorem motivates the definition of Graham's number, a number that was popularized by Martin Gardner in Scientific American and listed in the Guinness Book of World Records as the largest number ever appearing in a mathematical proof.
Miller (1941), in both the form stated above and an equivalent complementary form: every infinite graph contains either a countably infinite clique or an independent set with equal cardinality to the whole graph.
Here L(NH(Y)) has four vertices: Aa, Bb, Ab, Ba, and four edges: {Aa,Ab}, {Aa,Ba}, {Bb,Ba}, {Bb,Ab}.
In partition calculus, part of combinatorial set theory, a branch of mathematics, the Erdős–Rado theorem is a basic result extending Ramsey's theorem to uncountable sets.
This means that, theoretically, it is possible to transmit information nearly without error at any rate below a limiting rate, C.
Families of regular languages with unbounded star height The first question was answered in the negative when in 1963, Eggan gave examples of regular languages of star height n for every n.
Since each line segment lies on one of m lines, and any two lines intersect in at most one point, the crossing number of this graph is at most the number of points where two lines intersect, which is at most m(m − 1)/2.
Because k ≥ 3 after discarding the two-point lines, it follows that k − 1 ≥ k/2, so the number of these line segments on each line is at least half the number of incidences on that line.
To visualized this theorem and its conclusion, consider the particular case where K {\displaystyle K} is a convex polygon.
{\displaystyle |{\cal {F|\leq \max _{r\colon t+2r\leq n}|{\mathcal {F}}_{n,k,t,r}|.}}} Furthermore, equality is possible only if ⁠ F {\displaystyle {\cal {F}}} ⁠ is equivalent to a Frankl family, meaning that it coincides with one after permuting the coordinates.
(1941), "On unicursal paths in a network of degree 4", American Mathematical Monthly, 48 (4): 233–237, doi:10.2307/2302716, JSTOR 2302716.
It merged with Tau Kappa Alpha, a similar organization, to form Delta Sigma Rho-Tau Kappa Alpha in 1963.
The most commonly used slide camera stands were Forox, Marron Carrel (later Maron), and Sickles (later Mangum Sickles).
At the 1929 International Convention of the UNIA, after Garvey had been deported to Jamaica, Davis was elected UNIA Secretary General.
The declaration paved the way for the process of determining Peyton's holiness, and he received title Servant of God at this time.
Modern lectern desk A rolling computer desk based on a single leg set on a four- or five-wheel stand is the most common modern form of lectern desk.
McKenna claimed the experiment put him in contact with "Logos": an informative, divine voice he believed was universal to visionary religious experience.
In October 2013, she criticised the make-up of the Football Association's commission to improve the national team as being "all-white, all-male"; Rio Ferdinand was subsequently added to the commission.
In 1897, the sisters gave entertainments together in Missouri, Eugenia doing the poses and Mazy giving the recitations, some of the most successful of which were by Banks.
Ghinsberg put the Tacana-Quechua people of the village of San José de Uchupiamonas in touch with the Inter-American Development Bank, which gave a $1.25 million grant to build a solar-powered ecolodge in the jungle, and to train the local people how to manage it.
He is a Christian apologist and critic of Islam, and hosts a weekly live call-in show on Al Hayat TV where he compares Islam and Christianity.
One day, he asked his landlord, a family friend, how he became so successful, and the landlord told him that he started to turn his life around after attending a Jim Rohn seminar.
Techniques discussed include historical studies, case studies, dialogues, language development, collecting data, measurement, controlling reliability, and validation.
Philanthropy In 1991, Robbins founded the Anthony Robbins Foundation, to help young people, homeless people, hungry people, elderly people, and imprisoned people.
Bapu supports sanitation campaigns and encourages avoiding the single use of plastic bags to preserve nature.
Small Actions has been translated into simplified Chinese, traditional Chinese and Bahasa Indonesia.
The series has received wide and positive support from the New York Times, Time Out, Bookforum and Bustler.
Er Cof (in Welsh) was edited by Ben Davies, who had been the minister at her chapel, and was published at Ystalyfera in 1923.
Of Company G's eight officers and eighty-three enlisted men who entered the battle, only sixteen enlisted men, including Beaty, survived the attack unwounded.
An article in The Harvard Crimson described him as an expert on the national parks and an accomplished poet and musician.
(31 March 2009), 'Rosary priest' to be honored with sculpture, Philippines Daily Inquirer, archived from the original on 30 April 2009.
Once the programming was completed, the most common way to preserve the programming information was to record the programming cues onto the audio track so that the show could be run synchronized with the audio playback.
I've been going out with my girlfriend for… sex!" (Stewart Francis) "I have an L-shaped sofa… Lowercase." (Demetri Martin) "Crime in multi-story car parks is wrong on so many different levels." (Tim Vine) "My wife – it's difficult to say what she does.
Steffens, Wisconsin State Assembly Lem Tucker, television news journalist See also Competitive debate in the United States Extemporaneous speaking Honor society References External links ΠΚΔ National website
The health of both husband and wife began to fail near the end of 1936, with Ednorah dying on November 14 and her husband following her four weeks later.
In 2000, Bates started her consulting firm, Bates Communications, to coach business executives in matters related to executive communication.
As part of the World Leaders Project, Bennick and Solomon met with the former President of Guyana, Bharrat Jagdeo.
He often shared the same stage with Edwin Booth, brother of Abraham Lincoln assassin John Wilkes Booth.
Writing In 2021, Sim published Small Actions: Leading Your Career to Big Success through World Scientific Publishing.
In 2017, Labalme conceived and produced Muppet Guys Talking: Secrets Behind The Show the Whole World Watched which premiered at SXSW.
In 2003, she co-authored the autobiography Margit: A teenager's journey through the Holocaust and beyond.
Robert's version, however, includes a more vivid description of the atrocities committed by the conquerors, describing the desecration of churches, the forced circumcision, beheading and torture by disemboweling of Christian men and alluding to grievous rape of Christian women.
He described his mother, who was left to raise the family alone, as having only a fifth-grade education "but who without a doubt graduated magna cum laude from the university of life" and someone who had a saying for everything.
History ELE was founded in 1998 by American Stephen Lapeyrouse – author, essayist, editor, private English language tutor.
The NSA Council of Peers Award for Excellence (CPAE) honored Burrus with its Speaker Hall of Fame Award.
In 2011, the West Bengal Police Training College was renamed the Swami Vivekananda State Police Academy, West Bengal.
These phrases resemble Japanese newspaper headlines rather than full sentences and are arranged visually to allow rapid comprehension.
Caitlin Blanchfield, writing for Urban Omnibus, highlighted the uniqueness of the series' anti-curatorial platform: The series is principally organized by Stephanie DeGooyer and Justin Martin.
From the Harvard News: "Secure your tickets for the grand musical and literary entertainment at Union Hall, Thursday evening, Jan.
In 1978, he was appointed books editor of a sister publication, the Worcester Sunday Telegram, a full-time position that included writing a weekly column.
Early career In 1873, hoping to ease Albion Bradbury's lung disease, Wiggin's family moved to Santa Barbara, California, where her stepfather died three years later.
These factors include the meaningfulness of the information, the way it is represented, and physiological factors, such as stress and sleep.
Burrus has delivered thousands of speeches as a professional speaker certified by the National Speakers Association (NSA).
2024-2025 In the 2024–2025 season, Waleed Haider (Hendrickson High School, Texas) won the Montgomery Bell Academy Round Robin.
Career Following high school, he enlisted in the Marine Corps, serving at Parris Island from 1953 to 1956.
Publications, speeches, and awards Halligan's first book, Inbound Marketing, was co-authored with HubSpot co-founder Dharmesh Shah.
At the age of 12, Doles "went upon the stage as an elocutionist," according to the Exhibitors Herald, touring the country.
The 2022 TFA State Tournament was held March 9-12 at Gregory-Portland High School in Portland, Texas (Region 4).
August August 1: Luke Capasso's one-hour special Talkn' Loud & Sayn' Nothin' is released on Gumroad.
She is also an associate professor at the Open University of Catalonia (UOC) and the ISDE Law School in Madrid and Barcelona.
Early life and education FBI career Coleman joined the FBI in 1989 as a white-collar crime specialist, and by 1992, he was assigned to a Wall Street financial crime squad in New York, where he investigated cases of stock manipulation, fraud, and insider trading.
While at NYU, Ingram performed on the school's poetry slam team, which won the 2013 College Unions Poetry Slam Invitational.
Webb was born in New Bedford, Massachusetts, three weeks after her mother succeeded in escaping there from slavery in Virginia.
She holds a BA in Public Relations Universidad Argentina de la Empresa (Buenos Aires, Argentina), a degree in Marketing from New York University, and a Masters in Public Relations from the University of Houston, Texas.
Published books In the Kereme mountain valley (Kereme too öröönündö), 1987 (collection of stories) (ISBN 7537400075) Honour (Sıyımık), 1992 Before Dawn (Taŋ aldında), 1993 (novel) Red flower (Kızılgül), 2004 Joyful Road (Şaŋduu jol) (novel) (2004) (ISBN 7-228-08965-0) == References ==
Some of her articles appeared in The Voice, while the British press reprinted some of her original recitations.
Personal life Ugbodaga met Victor Anomah Ngu, a Cameroonian surgeon, during her time studying in London and married him in 1960, adding Ngu to her surname.
Sections of the 1951 book were written separately by O'Neill, McBurney, and Mills, although O'Neill's contributions were dropped in the 1964 edition.
He worked as a teacher at the Central University for Nationalities from 1957 to 1966, and as an editor for the Kyzylsuu newspaper from 1979 till his retirement in 1987.
Based on the success of these roasts, Comedy Central began hosting their own roasts on a roughly annual basis, under the name Comedy Central Roast.
But that registration could also be related to greater willingness to register: registration brought the chance of getting land from the commission.
Programming could also be used to control room lights, film projectors, rewind of the audio tape and resetting of the projectors, and to trigger other effects that might be used in the presentation, such as a strobe light.
Leandro Taub is an Argentine actor, author, and motivational speaker who was born on May 5, 1983, in Buenos Aires and raised in Bariloche.
Turning to the words of Jesus in Luke 10:16—"He that heareth you, heareth Me; and he that despiseth you, despiseth Me"—Keble saw this attitude of "disrespect to the Successors of the Apostles" as an "unquestionable symptom of enmity" to God.
In the book community building and cooperative participation are seen as the chief duty of citizenship in a democratic society.
TOPAS AT&T/Crystal TOPAS was a pioneering 3D computer graphics software package for x86-based personal computers.
MacQueen fled on bail to the United Kingdom, but later returned to face trial, was sentenced to five years and fined $1500.
Powell, member of the Michigan House of Representatives Marshall Russell Reed, Bishop of The Methodist Church and the United Methodist Church Loren Reid, communication professor and the chair of the Department of Communication.
Although religious recruiters such as the Capuchins and the Redemptorist fathers visited Carracastle in search of young men wanting to pursue the priesthood, Peyton concentrated on helping his family earn a living when their father became too ill to work the farm.
Dame Heather Victoria Rabbatts, DBE (born 6 December 1955) is a Jamaican-born British solicitor, businesswoman, and broadcaster, who rose to prominence as Chief executive of the London Borough of Lambeth, the youngest council chief in the UK.
Johnson writes that the book documents NASA's success in placing the Apollo mission at front-of-mind of ordinary people and The Wall Street Journal found the "decadelong surge of public interest in all things lunar" remarkable.
Reagan's official activities including press and media, scheduling, projects and policy, as well as overseeing the "Just Say No" drug campaign she spearheaded in 1982.
Fellowships are awarded following a rigorous application process, undertaken by a committee, chaired by Professor James Raven, deputy chairman of the ESU, which represents the full range of scientific fields eligible for a fellowship.
Soapboxing proved to be what one historian has called "a hard, but nevertheless necessary, process in the development of revolutionary leaders".
In 2019, she made headlines by securing the first ruling that ordered a man to compensate his ex-wife for concealing the death of their child.
He is better known by his Instagram moniker and social media platform, Queer Brown Vegan, where he provides information to his over 120,000 followers about environmental justice, veganism and a zero-waste lifestyle, as well as the intersectionality of social and ecological issues.
Victoria Labalme is an international performing artist, professional speaker and executive presentation skills coach.
She wrote over 700 humorous and pathetic sketches, poems and serials, many of which appeared in the secular journals of New York City, Boston, and Philadelphia.
After teaching himself to take over his personal care, he began to pay for his education as a salesman.
In January 2023, he appeared on the cover of Vogue alongside Billie Eilish and seven other young environmental activists.
He is best known for his The Book of Awesome series, and "The Happiness Equation" which are international bestsellers.
Watkins), he admitted his lies before going on KSL-TV—accompanied by his wife and Watkins—and doing the same: Somewhere along the line, the idea ...
Rachel Walter Hinkle Shoemaker (née, Hinkle; October 1, 1838 - February 1, 1915) was a dramatic elocutionist and Shakespearean reciter.
Metaphorically, speakers are seen as connecting with their audiences by 'reaching out' to them through compelling words, gestures and arguments.
The National Individual Events Tournament of Champions (NIETOC) is a high school speech tournament in the United States.
Australia The Experimental Comedy Club in Perth, Western Australia was founded by Xavier Susai of Grassroots Comedy, during the COVID-19 pandemic, as a safe space for comedians to try new styles and material, without being perceived as an audition for professional comedy nights.
April 21: Nick DiPaolo's album version of his February 2018 special Inflammatory is released on iTunes, Google Play, Spotify and other digital audio retailers by Comedy Dynamics.
The collection was edited after Davies' death in 1995 by his literary executors: his wife Brenda and daughter Jennifer.
History and profile Yūben was launched by Seiji Noma in 1910 as a monthly magazine, and its first issue appeared in February that year.
The 2011 TFA State Tournament was held March 10–12 at Flower Mound High School in Flower Mound, Texas The 2012 TFA State Tournament was held on March 1–3 at Amarillo High School in Amarillo, Texas.
Early life Labalme's father was George Labalme Jr., a French-born designer who was involved in the design of, among other things, the Grey Poupon mustard jar.
She has delivered keynotes and workshops including The Throughline, Risk Forward® and Rock The Room® for Starbucks, Microsoft, PayPal, Verizon, Coca-Cola, Chase, L’Oreal, Oracle, Lowe's, universities, cultural institutions, and not-for-profits.
While Shoqan Walikhanov's general comments about the epos were published and widely disseminated, the actual transcription was misplaced, only to be rediscovered by Alkey Margulan in the Leningrad Academy of Sciences in 1964.
The scamps came very near catching the pastor in the toils." History of the 3rd Ohio Cavalry Brown served on a committee which authored and published The History of The Third Ohio Cavalry (3rd Ohio Cavalry).
The audience memory curve is an important principle to understand in order to better communicate and present information to an audience.
Sermons from highly regarded rabbis of this period have been preserved in the Midrash, forming part of the Talmud.
Local and regional chapters The 35 individual chapters are led by an elected president and a board of directors.
It describes and compares three different methodological approaches for gaining business knowledge: the analytical approach, the systems approach, and the actor's approach.
It also has to be funny." Jim Gaffigan became very successful in the 2010s on a reputation for being clean, focusing his bits on everyday things like food and raising five children.
Typical targets for insult include people in the show's audience, the town hosting the performance, or the subject of a roast.
His books were published by Wiley, and have been translated into Russian, Thai, Indonesian, Korean, Simplified Chinese, Traditional Chinese, Vietnamese, and Spanish.
Shapiro spent time researching the source of "War is Hell." His research suggests that the phrase can be traced back to Napoleon Bonaparte.
Rarely, an opening act may perform again at the end of the event, or perform with the featured act after both have had a set to themselves.
Doctors determined the cause to be a blood clot in his lungs, caused by poor circulation in his paralyzed legs.
2024 Anti-finance bill demonstrations Odhiambo was at the helm of legal matters during the Kenya Finance Bill demos.
During this time she continued perfecting her craft under Professor Edwin Lawrence of New York and Rachael Noah of Boston.
Established in 1913 at Ottawa University, the organization is the oldest debating society in the country.
Pinkley, the master of elocution there, wrote of her that among the thousands whom he had known and personally worked with, he found no one who gave surer promise of histrionic greatness.
The ceremony to bury her occurred on the grounds of Hollywood Forever Cemetery under a California Oak on January 27, 2023.
She started her career by teaching at a country school in South Carolina and, simultaneously, a class of older people.
The 2024 TFA State Tournament was held in March, again at the Marriott Westchase hotel in Houston, Texas (Region 4).
In the same year, Becks led a debate about women’s suffrage at Ebenezer AME Church.: 144 Becks continued her public health work as well.
In 2015, Notkin emceed the regional edition of NASA FameLab, a global competition featuring early career scientists with the intent to nurture the skills necessary to communicate science-related topics to a public audience.
Growing up on a frontier farm, he learned what it meant to work hard and gained a love of the natural world which would influence his later work.
docuseries I Am Cait and subsequently on The Ellen DeGeneres Show, where Ellen DeGeneres and Caitlyn Jenner presented Brown with a US$20,000 scholarship to support her studies.
22-year-old Ghinsberg and his two friends followed Ruprechter by plane to Apolo, La Paz, and from there traveled down to the Tuichi River and to a local village called Asariamas, at the confluence of rivers Tuichi–Asariamas.
Alfred William Styles (29 November 1873 – 8 January 1926) was an accountant, trade unionist and politician in South Australia.
In July, she crossed the Catalina Channel in 14 hours and 49 minutes, spending eight hours swimming in the dark.
Articulation Voice: Was their clearness, correctness, and effectiveness in choice and expression of words?
1856: The Crime against Kansas speech was delivered on the US Senate floor on May 19–20, 1856 by Senator Charles Sumner of Massachusetts, a radical Republican, about the conflicts in "bleeding Kansas." 1858: A House Divided, in which candidate for the U.S.
As practiced by Toastmasters International, the topics to be discussed are written on pieces of paper which are placed in a box in the middle of a table.
Her early education was such as the public schools gave in those days, and later, she attended the State Normal School in Millersville, Pennsylvania, where, after graduation, she remained as a teacher of English and French.
Aspects Scholars and practitioners have widely recognized four elements of the tradition, which widely continue to the modern day.
Shortly before the formal declaration of World War II, Gullan volunteered as a director in a relocation center in Kettering, where she was responsible for the care and education of over 200 children from London's poorest districts.
Hardee was the much loved MC at the Tunnel Palladium, The Mitre, Deptford 1984-89 whose audience were famous for their vocal participation and wit.
As Antony reflects on Caesar's death and the injustice that nobody mourns for him, he becomes overwhelmed with emotion and deliberately pauses ("My heart is in the coffin there with Caesar, / And I must pause till it come back to me").
Her work has been featured in two recent exhibitions: African Modernism in America,1947–67 (2024), and Nigeria Modernism at Tate Modern (October 2025 – May 2026).
Awards He was highly regarded as an anti-money laundering expert among his law enforcement peers and was honored with the "Director's Award for Outstanding Contributions in Law Enforcement" from the Executive Office for United States Attorneys).
Sports In sports, an undercard is a preliminary bout or race between lesser known competitors, at a boxing, professional wrestling, horse racing, auto racing, or other sports event.
The word has its origins in the medieval Latin term lectrum, related to legere which means 'to read'.
His opponent, William Gibbs McAdoo, compared it to "an army of pompous phrases moving over the landscape in search of an idea." Origin Bloviation in Ohio was originally idle chatter.
Shane was named one of the world's 13 "Pride Inclusion Advocates" by Pride Life Global Magazine Shane currently tours the world on the speaker's circuit while continuing to publish books.
Career Pope became a correspondent for the Boston Globe in 1881 serving in that capacity until he was elected to statewide office in 1914.
In this new version of the book, Reichheld renames NPS the "Net Promoter system" to emphasize elements of the approach beyond the metric.
Initiation and disciplehood In 1970, Sudhakar Kaitwade was a physics student at Bhopal, when he was about to complete his master's degree in physics.
Otero, Laura With a degree in Biotechnology and Molecular Genetics orientation technique graduated Laboratory National University of Quilmes.
Bowen III is an American banker who blew the whistle on mortgage fraud at Citigroup that helped trigger the sub-prime mortgage crisis.
During the presentation of the object, some teachers do minimal guidance, while other teachers take a more active role in preparing students for the activity, helping students give a successful share, and in guiding questions and comments from other students.
Early life and education Anna Margaretta (nickname, "Madge") Rile was born in Montgomery, Pennsylvania, January 11, 1858.
Its symptoms include one or more of physiological changes, mental disruptions, and detrimental speech performance.
Halligan was forced to pay financial penalties by the HubSpot board of directors because he failed to promptly alert the board after he discovered that staff members at HubSpot behaved inappropriately.
Templates Typically in a set of slides (a "deck"), all the slides will have a similar layout template, controlling such factors as margins and headings.
Costello, general manager and president of The Lewiston Daily Sun and Lewiston Evening Journal Garfield V.
Biography With a licentiate in information sciences from the Complutense University of Madrid, Mónica Pérez de las Heras began her career as an environmental journalist, during which time she wrote four books on the subject.
Walkes joined the Democratic Labour Party, and stood in the St Peter constituency seat in 1991 against Owen Arthur.
After the 2010 Haiti earthquake, Bennick joined some friends to help distribute aid to those affected by the disaster, further inspiring him to create the nonprofit.
The regimental commander, Colonel Giles Shurtleff, twice recommended him for a promotion to commissioned officer.
He suggested the up-and-down oscillation of the wave shows an ongoing wavering between habit and novelty respectively.
Togolok Moldo (Kyrgyz: Тоголок Молдо; real name: Байымбет Абдырахман уулу, Bayymbet Abdyrahman uulu; 10 June 1860 – 4 January 1942) was a Kyrgyz poet, Manaschi and folk song writer.
Considered too similar to lawsuits filed late last year, this January complaint has been consolidated into a case brought by other nonfiction writers as well as fiction writers represented by the Authors Guild.
Education and early career Schultz earned a Bachelor of Business Administration from University of Oklahoma in 1957, a master's degree in advertising from Michigan State University in 1975, and a PhD in mass media from Michigan State in 1977.
At the beginning of 2003–2004 season, the NCFL enacted a ban on all former high school competitive oratories, effective as of the 2005 Grand National Tournament.
Banks subsequently toured extensively, giving notable dramatic readings and producing comedies such as Engaged and Pygmalion and Galatea.
She has offered courses of oratory and communication to companies, foundations, university centers such as the Complutense University of Madrid and the University of Navarra, and public entities such as the National Institute of Public Administration, hospitals, unions, and political parties.
Sharkey – historian in the Department of Near Eastern Languages & Civilizations at the University of Pennsylvania The US–UK Debate Tour Exchange Two outstanding British student debaters are chosen each year to tour approximately 30 states over three months.
She is a cast member on I Am Jazz and has also made appearances in Freestyle Love Supreme and I Love the '80s 3-D.
The word may also be used, chiefly in the United States, as a verb, "to podium", meaning to attain a podium place.
He is a senior lecturer at MIT teaching "Designing, Developing, and Launching Successful Products in an Entrepreneurial Environment".
She was the first Nigerian and the first woman to become a professor at the Nigerian College of Arts, Science and Technology (later Ahmadu Bello University) and the first female Nigerian artist to have a solo exhibition in London, England.
Greater Talent Network (also known as GTN) was an American speakers bureau based in New York and is currently owned by United Talent Agency.
Recipients of the award include: 2012 - Kazi Abu Zafar Siddique; 2016 - Soumitra Chatterjee and Kazi Arif.
Ghinsberg featured in the 2013 travel documentary Gringo Trails by documentary filmmaker, Pegi Vail.
Published in 2016 by Hachette Book Group, True Reagan: What Made Ronald Reagan Great and Why It Matters is a first-hand account of what made Reagan tick.
In 1903 she wrote the classic children's novel Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm, which became an immediate best-seller, as did Rose o' the River in 1905.
Rachel Hinkle descended from Edward Marshall of Tinicum Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania, one of the participants in the Walking Purchase of 1737.
Isaias Hernandez is an environmental educator advocating for social justice and accessibility in the environmental movement.
Her father, who was described as "a Spanish gentleman of wealth [who] had made many efforts to purchase the freedom of her mother", provided financial support for Webb until age 6 or 7.
This tournament can justifiably be considered a "team" tournament because both individual events and debate points add up to create the final sweepstakes total for a school.
After the videotaped murder of George Floyd, choked by Minneapolis police in May 2020, Carr immediately contacted and consoled Floyd's family.
Political involvement In 1972, he was the American Independent Party vice presidential nominee, appearing on the ticket with U.S.
Curry saw the art of public reading as superior to acting, based on his belief that understanding the text was crucial to bringing text to life and that the “art of reading...must appeal more than the mind than to the eye.
A 1994 paper found more involved teaching can lead to better psychological gains for students than a more passive approach.
Philo Trust J.John established Philo Trust as a charity in 1980 in Nottingham, which in 1997 moved to Chorleywood, England.
Her biography, Hallie Quinn Brown, Black Woman Elocutionist, was published by Annjennette Sophie McFarlin in 1975.
After four years' probationary work, Styles resigned his position with the church and returned to business life in the bookkeeping department of John Martin's, where both employers and employees were in favour of regulated business hours — "early closing".
Post-war ideological criticism of Manas, and its defence by scholars such as Mukhtar Auezov, led to the demand of a 'harmonized' politically acceptable version incorporating Orozbakov's variant.
The Public Relations Department of the Harvest Ministry issued a statement saying that the pastor had departed in order to fast and pray in preparation for "the large evangelistic crusade" that he organizes every year in different football stadiums in San Pedro Sula.
The film was narrated by Gabriel Byrne, and earned recognition at multiple film festivals, including the audience choice for best documentary at the Beverly Hills Film Festival.
The Tecnopolis debut was against 945 people and after the first weekend had joined more than 3,000 people in four shows.
Three years later, in 1939, Tritton married exiled Russian prime minister Alexander Kerensky in Martins Creek, Pennsylvania, and they lived in exile in Pennsylvania and then in Paris and New York City.
The recordings are short versions of the national anthems, ensuring the podium ceremony stays within its allocated time.
A Brief History of Rostrum in Queensland (1937–2021) was released by Bill Smith Rostrum Club 3 Brisbane in June 2022.
His 2000 paper on internationalization in the small firm, published in the edited book Enterprise and Small Business, was praised as "an excellent piece of work" by Keogh and as a very valuable and compelling discourse by Madichie (2008).
References External links A 1911 photograph of Bessie Bown Ricker, from the Sayre Collection at the University of Washington
She was a member of the Nazi-instituted League of German Girls (BDM), so although Perel loved Leni, he dared not tell her that he was Jewish, fearing of her informing the authorities.
Despite suffering from stage fright earlier in life, he delivered a TEDx talk 10 years of selling noodles.
PechaKucha (Japanese: ぺちゃくちゃ, IPA: [petɕa kɯ̥tɕa], chit-chat) is a storytelling format in which a presenter shows 20 slides for 20 seconds per slide.
Publications À la recherche de l'humain, une recherche du bonheur et de nos possibilités (1988) Politiquement incorrect (2006) À la recherche de l'humain (2007) Une vie d'amour et d'épreuves (2011) == References ==
In 1991 he visited Russia with a delegation of American spiritual leaders and they met with president of USSR Mikhail Gorbachev and other political figures.
Kryss Shane is an American LGBT+ expert, social work educator, consultant, author and public speaker recognized as an LGBT+ expert by ABC News, CNN, Oprah Magazine, Rolling Stone, Reader's Digest and Playboy.
After the war, Krishnamurti embarked on a series of lectures, meetings and discussions around the world, related to his duties as the Head of the OSE, accompanied by Nitya, by then the Organizing Secretary of the Order.
Over the course of her career, she wrote more than 700 sketches, poems, and serials, contributed to leading newspapers and magazines in New York City, Boston, and Philadelphia, and published several volumes of poetry.
When comes such another?", at which point the crowd begins to riot and search out the assassins with the intention of killing them.
Students can qualify for the tournament by performing sufficiently well in a local qualifying tournament.
Geoffrey Moore (born 1946) is an American organizational theorist, management consultant and author, known for his work Crossing the Chasm: Marketing and Selling High-Tech Products to Mainstream Customers.
Legacy In 2012, the Ministry of Cultural Affairs of Bangladesh initiated the Kazi Sabyasachi Memorial Award for two elocutionists - one from Bangladesh and one from India.
Physical beauty The Motion Picture Studio Directory of 1916 contains a biographical sketch of Childers as well as a physical description of the actress.
To own the translated version of the Bible in Moroccan Arabic or Arabic language without the fear of being arrested; 3.
Rajagopal to court to recover donated property and funds as well as publication rights for his works, manuscripts, and personal correspondence, that were in Rajagopal's possession.
She is a consultant to entrepreneurs, elite individuals, top teams, and C-suite executives at global brands.
The Conference was an organization of activists who promoted third-party politics and advocated for the interests of farmers and laborers.
Besides the jade used for burial and ritual, there are 140 pieces/sets decorative jade including Jades Vessels, Jade Garment Belt Hooks, Jade Ornaments and Jade Sword Ornaments.
Exhibits are accompanied by the informative charts explaining the principal historical events associated with the Old Bridge.
Other points of interest The Museum's Auditorium seats 120 people and often houses lectures and other local events.
However, due to the increased prosperity of the colony and the need for more coin production, minting operations were moved here in 1731.
Some scholars have claimed these objects are part of the Oxus Treasure, lost shortly after its discovery in 1877 and rediscovered in Afghanistan in 1993.
The museum collection relocated there in 1923, but its opening was delayed until 1930 by the economic crisis that followed World War I.
In October 1946, after an on-site interview by reporter Shao Shenzhi, it was confirmed to be a bronze vessel from the Shang Dynasty.
The conservation restoration workshop preserves the museum material and organizes the technical days and workshops at the temporary exhibitions in the context of educational activities.
During 2021, the cultural centre presented an exhibition with themes on the commonalities between the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia, as well as an exhibition on contemporary life in the Emirates.
The building housing the museum, which dates to the late 19th century, is listed as a historic monument by Romania's Ministry of Culture and Religious Affairs.
In 1906, due to the growth of the museum's collections, Justo Sierra divided the stock of the National Museum.
It was opened in 1994 in the building of Ibrahim Pasha military barracks of the citadel, built in 1834.
Sculptures of Tyche, the protecting divinity of Tomis (ancient Constanța), and of Pontus, god of the Black Sea, date to the same period.
Many archaeology museum are in the open air, such as the Ancient Agora of Athens and the Roman Forum.
The objects dated from 4000 BC to the present-day, many of which were collected or donated by local community members.
The museum is located on Nile Avenue in Khartoum's al-Mugran area, close to the confluence of the White and the Blue Nile.
Facility The Sendai City Tomizawa Site Museum is a 2,700-square-meter (29,000 ft2) archaeology museum in Taihaku-ku, Sendai.
At the time, lack of satisfactory facilities on Rapa Nui did not favor the immediate transfer of library or archival materials.
These ornaments, known as tillo kosh or sinsila, were often worn by brides as symbols of prosperity and fertility.
The ‘Inverted’ or ‘Upside Down’ cross is so named because it is currently displayed upside down next to the hogback stones in the (ecclesiastical) north transept.
Selected works Descent from the Cross, Peter Paul Rubens, oil on canvas (17th century) Saint Stephen Triptych (formed of The Martyrdom of St Stephen, The Preaching of St Stephen, The Annunciation and The Angel of the Annunciation) by Peter Paul Rubens, oil on canvas and panel (1600–1650).
Adjacent is the king's bedroom, paneled in mahogany with an oil painting of him at age 12, and a third bedroom for Princess Fawzia, Farouk's sister.
The Djibouti Museum (Arabic: متحف جيبوتي, romanized: Matḥaf Jībūtī) is a history and art museum in Djibouti City, Djibouti.
Each of them has three raised arches, the central one being the highest, and all feature polychrome paintings by Abel Cardoso.
This book derives from papers given at four symposia in the session - The dead and their possessions: variety and change in practice and belief - at the fourth World Archaeological Congress held in Cape Town, South Africa in January 1999.
The museum was estimated to reopen in 2027, but due to the budget cuts by Petteri Orpo's government affecting the Finnish Heritage Agency, the reopening has been postponed indefinitely.
Without a fixed location, The collection settled in various places until 1872, when it was exhibited in the main palace of the International Exhibition.
The collection of special Bibles has been transferred to the special collection of the Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam.
History In 1969, a small single-room museum was established with exhibits including coins, farming tools, pottery, and weapons.
In film The 2018 film I Do Not Care If We Go Down in History as Barbarians was partially shot on the museum premises, both inside and in the yard.
Cabinet Cabinet was a software application developed as part of the VTC and was designed to be an easy-to-use and well-presented suite of software tools that were intuitive.
On 13 December 2009, two acroliths (two heads, three hands and three feet in marble) from the Greek archaic period, probably belonging to the goddesses Demeter and Kore, very revered in antiquity in Central Sicily, returned from the University of Virginia Museum.
Pathways Thesauri – these contains the terms used to describe items in the AIATSIS Collection, split into three entry points: languages, place names, and subject areas of study.
The King Ferdinand I National Military Museum (Romanian: Muzeul Militar Național "Regele Ferdinand I"), located at 125-127 Mircea Vulcănescu St., Bucharest, Romania, was established on 18 December 1923 by King Ferdinand I.
The Institute of Archaeology's library and collection of Mayan artifacts has been sporadically open to the public in the Archaeology Museum and Research Centre, Belmopan since the late 1990s.
Collection The museum is used to exhibit antiquities found from various regions of Sri Lanka such as Buddha statues, Relic caskets, drawings, puppets, coins, jewelries, Beads and other miscellaneous things.
Coins and currency circulating in Uzbekistan from the third century BC (the Greco-Bactrian_Kingdom) to the present day are represented.
In 1976, the city acquired the Schönberg Villa, which had been threatened with demolition, and opened it in 1978 as an extension of the museum.
The museum is used to show archaeological objects found in Buduruwagala area and also exhibits relics belonging to Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa and Kandy periods.
One of the chief purposes of Tamayo and the museum was to collect the historic pieces, and to protect them from entering the illegal artifact traders market.
The complete records of the ten year excavation of the tomb of Tutankhamun were deposited in the Griffith Institute Archive at the University of Oxford shortly after Carter's death.
Current condition The proud palace in Rajshahi has been losing its appearance as an ornamental terracotta piece.
The museum houses the most important collection of Cucuteni culture artifacts and it is the home of the Cucuteni Research Centre.
Collections The museum contained over 3500 archaeological, historical and numismatic objects from the Gaza region.
Excavations conducted during the construction of the museum revealed a complex comprising several small temples.
The discovery compels scholars to rethink the evolution of Chinese architecture, highlighting early East-West cultural dialogue.
The northern block of the building with east–west axis is double storeyed and has a wide hall of 21.95m x 7.16m.
This includes the remains of two wooden bridges belonging to the period prior to the construction of stone bridge and the base of the Old Bridge.
The collection of items related to natural history was moved to the Chopo Museum in 1909, and the collection of Mexican historical items were mostly moved to the museum at the Castle of Chapultepec in 1944.
See also Morgantina treasure Archaeological Regional Museum Paolo Orsi of Syracuse References External links Regional Archaeological Museum of Aidone, in Italian
There were no higher educational institutions in Gran Canaria at the time, and the museum became the main driving force behind historical research on the island.
Islamic period Presented in a dedicated pavilion, this section focuses on Islamic civilisation in Morocco, from the Almoravid dynasty to the Alaouites.
Plans were developed for a large complex in Dahlem, consisting of four large buildings, one for each of the non-European geographical regions of the globe: Asia, Africa, Oceania, and the Americas, the latter department directed by Konrad Theodor Preuss.
The museum has seven permanent galleries incorporating history, present day culture, and ethnography.
The Novara sails the globe The most ambitious Austrian expedition was carried out by the SMS Novara, a frigate which sailed the world between 1857 and 1859.
Gulbenkian's Centro de Arte Moderna (CAM) also actively commissions and collects works to add to its holdings, today numbering 12,000 pieces.
Subsequently, the world's most important Pre-Columbian collection in private hands (according to El País) was split and auctioned at Southeby's on 22 March 2013.
It houses over a million and a half scientific specimens, ranging from fossils up to 700 million years old to insects and fish caught a few days earlier.
The old building of the museum was demolished, and during five years new building of the museum was built.
Uppland Runic Inscription 613, also known as the Torsätra runestone, is the Rundata catalog number for a Viking Age memorial runestone originally located in Torsätra, which is approximately 8 kilometers northeast of Bro, Stockholm County, Sweden, which is in the historic province of Uppland.
The section of the museum housed in the former home of Džemal Bijedić, the head of the Yugoslav Government who died in a plane crash in 1977 is dedicated to his life.
The Juno Ludovisi (also called Hera Ludovisi) is a colossal Roman marble head of the 1st century CE from an acrolithic statue of an idealized and youthful Antonia Minor as the goddess Juno.
senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan was proposing legislation that would turn over the Alexander Hamilton U.S.
The building was constructed as a royal palace from 1928 to 1932 under the supervision of Muhammed bin Laden.
Legacy and Popular Culture As early as 1536, the presence of the sculpture was known to the general public prior to the ownership by Ludovisi.
The Berestye Archeological Museum, located in the city of Brest, Belarus, is a museum centered around an archaeological site displaying an authentic East Slavic wooden town dating back to the 13th century.
In 2012, the museum was unable to reach a purchase agreement with the collection's owner Jean Paul Barbier-Mueller.
They were found at the Caverna da Babilônia, a cavern located in the city of Rio Novo, interior of the state of Minas Gerais, in a farm that belonged to Maria José de Santana, who donated the mummies to emperor Pedro II.
Construction of the art gallery commenced in 1908, was completed in 1914, but did not open until 1921 as the First World War delayed transfer of pieces from Europe intended for the gallery.
500-1200, an exhibition catalog from The Metropolitan Museum of Art Libraries (fully available online as PDF), which contains material on Treasure of Guarrazar (p.
The permanent galleries are organised chronologically and thematically and include: Museum Introduction – an overview of the museum, its history, and the significance of Al Ain as a centre of human settlement.
The museum became the first in Argentina to introduce guided excursions for its patrons, and travels along the Inca road system resulted in the 1908 discovery of Pucará de Tilcara, among the best-preserved ruins of settlements by Pre-Inca cultures in the area.
Description The museum contains collections of pre-Columbian art once owned by artist Rufino Tamayo.
Excavators have divided the site into three cultural phases with the most recent being dubbed the Kot Diji Phase.
This was also the only regional museum housing items either through bought or obtained through court orders from an area covering Kahramanmaraş to Gaziantep.
While the ding itself was unearthed in 1939, in Wuguan Village (五官村), Anyang, Henan, Fu Jing's tomb (tomb 260 at Yinxu) was not located until 1959, and was found to have been looted.
The collection includes a Corinthian helmet, extremely rare in Spain, found near the city's Charterhouse by the river Guadalete.
Collections The main museum collections are: Pre-Columbian collection This collection hosts the Felipe Orlando García-Murciano collection of Pre-Columbian art.
The stream links Lake Rotokākahi (394.9 m (1,296 ft)) above sea level with Lake Tarawera (298 m (978 ft)) above sea level.
The oldest textile in the museum is in this area, a painted cloth almost 3,000 years old from the Chavín culture.
Erebuni Historical-Archaeological Reserve-Museum (Armenian: «Էրեբունի» պատմահնագիտական արգելոց-թանգարան), was established on October 19, 1968.
Under the leadership of Ignaz von Born the cabinet of natural history quickly developed into a center of practical research.
Gallery See also El Rey archaeological site Yamil Lu'um List of museums in Mexico References External links Secretariat of Culture information (Spanish)
Uganda Martyrs Museum is a Ugandan museum located in Namugongo Kyaliwajjala Ward, in Kira Municipality, Wakiso District.
The museum was consrtructed under the guidance of the Catholic church and the Church of Uganda, in remembrance of the Uganda Martyr's a group of 22 Catholic and 23 Anglican converts to Christianity who were executed between 1885 and 1887 on the orders of kabaka Mwanga II the king of Buganda.
Facilities The entrance hall to the museum has a map of the ancient city set into the floor, overlaid with glass marked with the streets of modern Guatemala City.
As the largest archaeological collection in the Canary Islands, El Museo Canario is an important resource in the study of prehispanic society in the archipelago.
Layout Site of King’s Tomb The Tomb The Nanyue King’s Tomb is buried approximately 20 meters deep within the core of Xianggang Hill.
In February 2025, the Ministry of Culture announced that, consistent with its decision not to display human remains in Spanish national museums, the mummy would be removed from its exhibition at the National Archaeological Museum.
Educational services The Museum of Anthropology in Xalapa offers various educational services in order to improve the public knowledge at all levels.
It has been suggested that the action of Pedro I would have been influenced by José Bonifácio de Andrada, a relevant early member of Freemasonry in Brazil, perhaps driven by the interest that the organization had for the Egyptian iconography.
The Roman Baths of Ankara are the ruined remains of an ancient Roman bath complex in Ankara, Turkey, which were uncovered by excavations carried out in 1937–1944, and have subsequently been opened to the public as an open-air museum.
Eight surviving runestones that are signed by Visäte include U 74 in Husby, U 208 in Råcksta, U 236 in Lindö, U 337 in Granby, U 454 in Kumla, U 669 in Kålsta, U 862 in Säva, and U Fv1946;258 in Fällbro, and over twenty others have been attributed to this runemaster based on stylistic analysis.
By 2019, the Centre had become firmly established in Moroto, Uganda, with a broader vision of promoting heritage and communal values of Ateker pastoralist societies.
The statue is made of two materials: marble was used for the face and for the naked parts of the body, similar to the Metope of Selinunte, but the drapery is instead in calcareous tuff, which has been ascertained to come from Sicily.
Components The above definition was made by EXARC, a global network of professionals for those active in archaeological open-air museums, experimental archaeology, ancient technology and interpretation, using ICOM's definition of museums.
Unlike most other such excavators, he did not sell many of his finds, but kept them for a personal collection which is still called the Feoli collection in honour of him.
This demonstrates the advanced planning concepts behind the Nanyue Kingdom's original site selection, holding significant academic value for the study of ancient Chinese capitals and architectural history, as well as practical relevance for researching sustainable development in modern cities.
Antique collection The Antique collection displays sculptures and other antiquities from the ancient cultures around the Mediterranean.
A number of archaeological features ranging in date from possibly 5000 years ago to only 200 years ago have been found on this hill.
There is no data on its origin or original use, but 1950s researchers linked it to the pre-Hispanic village of Tara, in the municipality of Telde.
In October 2023, the Austrian Academy of Sciences handed over to Australia the remains of six Aboriginal ancestors that had been part of the Pöch collection.
The inauguration took place on 17 June 1967 and was attended by the President of the Republic, Admiral Américo Tomás.
An innovative lighting and audio system was installed, along with immersive multimedia displays featuring holograms and animations.
The rotunda on the second floor is frequently used as a performance space, and features murals reflecting the history of the building, done by Reginald Marsh.
The museum's basement preserves the fossilized forests and remains of the human habitation which had previously been kept intact by ground water.
The National Museum of the Union (Romanian: Muzeul Național al Unirii) is a history and archaeology museum in Alba-Iulia, Romania.
Several important Byzantine-era mosaics from churches and synagogues are on permanent display; this part of the campus is open to the public while construction continues on the interior of the building the visitor's feet.
The museum today is a popular tourist attraction in Las Palmas, and its displays include Canarian ceramics, mummies and a reproduction of the Painted Cave, Galdar.
The plaster-cast attic, the “Gipsengalerij”, to be visited only with a guided tour, shows copies of Roman and Greek statues.
It was founded in 1922 and contains archaeological and historical material relating to the region of Bukhara.
Among its collections are chisels and hatchets but despite being in a zone of colonial and Pre-Hispanic metallurgy there are no metal species from the city or its surroundings in the collection.
In 2009, the museum had moved to a new location and was reopened as the National Archaeological Museum Aruba.
Gas explosion in the Silver Room On 23 January 2006 an explosion occurred at the National Museum in the Silver Room, which was caused by methane leaking into a broom cupboard from the drainage through dried floor drain and lit by a spark from the power distribution cabinet in the cleaning closet.
As part of the refurbishment, Guatemalan artist Guillermo Grajeda Meno painted 21 murals within the museum.
The Village Complex also has open walls along the corridors & passages which are used as the canvas to display the painted traditions of several tribes of folk artisans.
References External links Geological Museum and Art Gallery on Facebook The Geological Museum and Art Gallery of Dilijan The Geological Museum and Art Gallery on Google map
The museum's press director Matteo Alessandrini said one bust lost part of a nose and an ear, while the other was knocked off its pedestal.
See also Celts and human sacrifice Cotini References External links The official museum website (in Slovak) A more detailed description of Havránok (in Slovak)
A museum official was quoted as saying "..don't worry, we will get another made" in response to the destruction of the murals.
They comprised the most-extensive collection of Mesa Verde items outside the United States and one of the largest collections of native Americana outside the American continents.
December 5, 2010, was the turn of the return from the Metropolitan Museum of New York of a service of sixteen pieces in silver for ritual and table uses, belonging to that Eupolemos, as revealed by the inscriptions engraved in votive arula.
Our place in the universe a display depicting a cosmic zoom to view the universe on an ever-increasing scale, reaching back to almost the very beginning of the universe.
Fischer collection Johannes Gerhard Frederik van Overmeer Fischer began as a clerk at Dejima and he was later promoted to warehouse master (pakhuismeester).
Raised to the Order of the Netherlands Lion, with instructions from Reuvens and with a state-funded budget Humbert would collect and excavate antiquities in Tunisia from 1822 to 1824.
These redemptions also included samples of silver and gold from the former "Ambrasian Collection" of Archduke Ferdinand II, a loss and impairment to the collection.
El Museo Canario (English: the Canarian Museum) is an archeological museum in Las Palmas, the capital city of Gran Canaria in the Canary Islands.
The petrologist and meteorite specialist Aristides Brezina became director of the former and was supported by scientific colleagues: Friedrich Berwerth, with Felix Karrer and Rudolf Koechlin providing voluntary unpaid services.
Valuable artefacts further enriched the rich archaeological collections and a new collection of items belonging to the modern history of the Romanians was added.
A Changing Landscape (Austin, TX: University of Texas Press) A first exploration of the gardens and the site of the Villa Ludovisi.
Angelov claims that the image in the House of Antiope is among the few contemporaneous depictions of that episode.
There are 24 galleries, or rooms, in total, with the Sistine Chapel, notably, being the last room visited within the Museum.
It was established in 1873 as the Municipal Archaeological Collection, merging collections donated by wealthy individuals, and based at the Old City Hall of Jerez de la Frontera.
The only other archaeological museum in Jerusalem at the time was the Franciscan Biblical Museum, built in 1902.
Emanuel Forchhammer, a professor of Pali at Rangoon College, was entrusted with the task of preserving it.
After several further movements, caused by lack of space, the collection was reopened in 1937 at its current site in Piaţa Muzeului (Constantin Daicoviciu street), in the center of Cluj-Napoca.
During the span of his stay in Japan, Fisher's access to Japanese culture was limited; but within his universe of contacts, he was able to amass a considerable collection of "ordinary" objects which were plausibly overlooked by others.
At this time, the viceregal government decided to renovate the deteriorated palace in 1777, giving the work to Francisco Antonio Guerrero y Torres, putting a lien on the building's rental income.
The new building was opened on 27 June 1909 and in 1995 was totally renovated and the display space expanded, with the addition of a basement displaying archaeological remains and artefacts.
The axe has a shaft hole but only had a symbolic function since the hole is not completely bored through and the axe hasn't been used in battle.
These Visigothic works were influenced by the Byzantines, but the techniques of gem encrustation found at Guarrazar were practised throughout the Germanic world and the style of the lettering was Germanic too.
Behind the palaestra the apodyterium (dressing room) and the three bath chambers, caldarium (hot bath), tepidarium (warm bath) and the frigidarium (cold bath), are laid out in a typical design.
It is the building where the Great National Assembly of Alba Iulia voted the Union of Transylvania with Romania.
The remnants of the museum date back to the early Syrian civilizations such as the Sumerians, Akkadians, Hittites, etc.
Research and teaching Research at the Institute covers fieldwork, laboratory analysis and conservation, artefact studies, and theoretical, synthetic, and analytical work.
El Ceibo is a museum in the Ometepe island in what once were the tobacco farm “Tel Aviv” kilns, known by its former name “El Refugio”, in the community of Sacramento, 10 kilometers from Moyogalpa in Lake Cocibolca or Lake Nicaragua administratively Ometepe Island belongs to the Rivas Department.
Nearby museums The Museo Numismático (National Coin Museum) is also located in the same building on the ground level and features displays dating back to 1236, including coins, banknotes and unofficial items such as coffee tokens.
Ceramics, copper objects, funeral urns, intentional cranial deformation, pipes, winches and objects decorated with gods from the Mesoamerican pantheon have been found.
In 2024, it became the highest rated museum in all of Argentina on the Tripadvisor platform, and has received the company's Traveller Choice award that year and also previously in 2021 and 2022.
The Tetouan Archaeological Museum in Tétouan is considered one of the most prominent cultural and historical museums in Morocco, as its historical legacy extends back more than a century.
In 1940, the Slovak National Geographic and History Museum and the Agricultural Museum were merged into the Slovak Museum.
The catalogue of Greek and Coptic inscriptions, produced primarily by the Christian culture of Nubia, was the scholarly contribution of Adam Lajtar from Warsaw University with respect to Greek inscriptions and Jacques Van der Vliet of Leiden University with respect to Coptic inscriptions.
To the south of the stairway at ground level is a projecting platform bearing sculptures of crossed bones and projecting skulls.
Statuette of a Wolf, from the 6th to 5th centuries BC, is a bronze cast figure discovered in Ayrum, Armenia.
The Art Gallery branch of the museum (Sectia de Arta) is located in the opposite prefecture, on the other side of the park and on the corner of Str.
A notable feature of the museum is the Verneau Room, named after the French archaeologist, an exhibition of 900 human skulls and half a dozen Guanche mummies which intentionally retains the museum's original 19th century display layout.
The museum houses the world's largest collection of Cham sculpture and is a popular tourist destination.
The collection is broken up into four areas: Area mesoamerica: Includes a statue of Xipe Totec, an incense burner from the Teotihuacan culture, and a Mayan bas-relief.
The first floor includes three bedrooms: one for Queen Narriman, King Farouk's second wife, containing her bed, mirror, and a photo of her and Farouk on their wedding day, along with a small bed for Crown Prince Ahmed Fuad.
This is of importance for the study of Norse mythology since it indicates that the expressions and the contents of the Poetic Edda are indeed of pre-historic Scandinavian origin.
Background In 1994, the building was entirely renovated by the Aleppo Directorate of Antiquities and Museums, with the assistance of the Aga Khan Cultural Services.
President The museum has one third of its floor space dedicated to the current President of Turkmenistan.
In 2007, the Abu Dhabi Authority for Culture & Heritage assigned Cultural Innovations to create an arts centre in the Al Qattara Fort complex.
Featured The North American Iceberg, which the National Gallery of Canada acquired to begin their collection of contemporary Native art.
Archeological excavations were conducted in connection with the anniversary celebrations and more than 6,500 items of mosaic, majolica, ceramic, copper, iron, and wooden carved items were collected and made part of the museum's collection.
At the same time, the outbreak of the Second Sino-Japanese War in 1937 stirred up the Chinese community in Singapore.
The National Archaeological Museum Aruba (Papiamento: Museo Arqueologico Nacional Aruba) is an archaeological museum in the city of Oranjestad in Aruba.
Montia Memorial Museum – 1960), Savârsin (Art and Ethnography Museum – 1988) and Minis (Vineyard and Vine Museum – 1988).
A projection on the walls of the exhibition room displays an interpretation of how the area is theorized to have appeared 20,000 years ago.
The first section, consisting of the Tara Tower itself, contains archaeological objects discovered during the 2002 reconstruction carried.
On 31 October 2018, the Chamber of Deputies approved an amendment of R$55 million to the budget of 2019.
The menorah's shape is largely intact, with the showbread table visible to the right, positioned beneath the incense altar.
The Jebel Barkal Museum is an archaeological site museum located on the eastern side of the archaeological area of Jebel Barkal at Karima in the Northern State of Sudan.
It also has a model of the location and layout of the former Aztec capital Tenochtitlan, the site of which is now occupied by the central area of modern-day Mexico City.
The collection is predominantly composed of ceramics and lithic artifacts of daily use (such as pans, bowls, jars, and dishes) or ritual nature (mainly funerary urns).
When the Romans stormed the Upper City, they found little resistance: Much of the population was near death from disease and starvation.
When the municipality of La Paz became aware of this, they requested the donation of his collection to the Municipal Museum Emeterio Díaz Villamil, the only one existing at that time.
The museum also exhibits scale models of Jerusalem during the First Temple period, a Ziggurat at Ur and the pyramids of Giza.
As of June 2018, around 2,500 objects had been captured in 3D, with nearly 2,000 available via the Hilprecht Archive Online under a CC BY license—until the server was shut down in 2024.
It was built in part to go along with the 2012 phenomenon which marked the end of the Mayan Long Count calendar on December 21 of that year.
Among the objects in the collection are more than 1,200 objects that appear to have been produced in Achaemenid Central Asia.
Rifnik Hill (pronounced [ˈɾiːfnik]) is a hill with an archaeological open-air museum in eastern Slovenia.
Organized by geographic regions (including Central and South America), the exhibit displays over 700 items and crosses the line from ethnology to art.
Adana Museum Complex (Turkish: Adana Müze Kompleksi) project was initiated in early 2010s to gather the museums that are administered by the central government.
Mulloy Collection The collection of the Biblioteca William Mulloy includes books, journals, articles, archival materials, field notes, maps, photographs and audiovisual materials related to Rapa Nui.
Meanwhile, Anthropologists, scientists who study the remains for research purposes, may have differing opinions.
The vase includes a dedicatory hieroglyphic text around the rim that identifies it as the drinking vessel of a lord of the city of Naranjo.
It contains over 350 artifacts from Mayan culture which was spread throughout the Yucatán Peninsula.
These works date back to 3,500 BCE to 1550 CE, most of which originated from the American southwest, Central America, Mesoamerica, and South America.
Small objects Among the smaller artefacts found were inkwells, Roman-period oil lamps that were used to light up the house during the evenings, and other household items, the large jugs, bowls and measuring cups, indicating that this was a perfume production workshop.
He described it in its surround as follows..."One warm, still day, late in the Roman autumn, our two young men were seated beneath one of the high-stemmed pines of the Villa Ludovisi.
See also List of Chinese cultural relics forbidden to be exhibited abroad References Citations Bibliography Li Song (2011).
Nine objects disappeared from a display case, including bronze figurines, heart carabs and a Roman coin.
About half of the funding comes from the city, while the other half is raised through revenue, sponsors, and donations.
In 1896, the Museum of Banat participated in the Budapest Millennium Exhibition with several objects, winning a bronze medal and a certificate of appreciation.
Ground level People past to present: consisting of three separate exhibitions: The Power of Rock Art (on the ideas, knowledge and beliefs expressed in San rock art) Opened in 2003, and remains the only permanent exhibit in the city that acknowledges San people and their history in South Africa.
In 1816 the Koninklijk Kabinet van Zeldzaamheden was formed in the Hague as an attempt to start a museum of scientific artifacts from around the world, based on royal collections and a large group of Chinese artifacts from private collections.
Governance Hyrax Hill is a regional museum under the management of National Museums of Kenya headed by Prof.
External links Media related to Museum of Cham Sculpture at Wikimedia Commons Vietnam National Administration of Tourism | Museum of Cham Sculpture Photo gallery of the museum
Especially interesting are the marble statuette depicting Liber Pater, the bronze collection, the glass collection, bone, horn and ivory objects as well as the monetary hoards from Alba Iulia, Tibru, Geomal, Șpring, and Medveș.
Education Scott earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from Hampton University in 1991 and a Juris Doctor from the West Virginia University College of Law in 1995.
Bailey attended Indianapolis Public Schools and graduated from Crispus Attucks High School (then the only high school serving the African American community) in 1937 at the age of fourteen.
Jail house informant scandal He was appointed to represent Scott Dekraai who was accused of killing eight people in the 2011 Seal Beach shooting.
Prado has reached out to children in the San Antonio community by conducting events in his courtroom as an introduction to the law.
Personal life and education Keahey earned a business degree from the University of Alabama, and in 2004 earned a JD from Cumberland School of Law.
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, and worked for noted criminal defense attorney Edward Bennett Williams, who founded Williams & Connolly LLP.
Bright (born 1948) is an American lawyer known for representing people facing the death penalty, advocating for the right to counsel for poor people accused of crimes, and challenging inhumane practices and conditions in prisons and jails.
During her campaign, James vowed to pursue Donald Trump, who she said was an "illegitimate president" and an "embarrassment." Tenure James was sworn in as attorney general on January 1, 2019, succeeding Barbara Underwood, who was first appointed after the resignation of Eric Schneiderman.
In his first bid for reelection Levine was defeated by Irving Slosberg in the 2000 Democratic primary.
Joseph Leo Toth (born September 1973) is an American lawyer who serves as a judge of the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims.
The Ninth Circuit affirmed the district court judgment granting declaratory and injunctive relief on September 19, 2014.
Nelson's term on the Supreme Court ended in January 2019, but she was elected to a full six year term in November 2018.
From 2007 to 2015, Merriam served as an assistant public defender for the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut.
From 1992 to 2003, Viken served as a partner in the Rapid City law firm of Viken, Viken, Pechota, Leach & Dewell, LLP.
In the memoir, Hopwood details both his life as a jailhouse lawyer and his romance with his wife, Ann Marie Hopwood, to whom Hopwood wrote during eight years of his imprisonment.
A frequent lecturer, Costa Pleicones has been called upon by many professional organizations including CLE programs by the South Carolina Bar.
Funding The Illinois Innocence Project's funding consists of federal and state grants and private donations.
He would have replaced former Commissioner Ketanji Brown Jackson and his term would have expired October 31, 2019.
He is co-convener of New York City Labor Against the War (NYCLAW); a founding member of Labor for Palestine and former president of the Association of Legal Aid Attorneys.
She was a litigation associate at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom in Chicago from 2007 to 2010.
Thomas' mother emphasized sacrifice and education and helped instill in Thomas a strong desire to earn an education and realize his goals in life.
Mayer Goldman, an early 20th century proponent of the position, questioned what should happen if a public defender represents a guilty defendant.
Krauser was an appellate attorney for the United States Department of Justice, and was also a public defender for the city of Philadelphia.
Krauser was the state chair of the National Jewish Democratic Council, appointed by Governor Glendening in 1997.
The first of the reports on six major government sectors were presented in November, 2015 exposing misallocation of funds and corrupt hiring practices.
The number of people living within city limits swelled from 40,000 to over 100,000 during Guingona's lifetime.
and conducted a review of the fit and proper person test for the Minister for Health published in 2019.
A Mark of Excellence Journalism award was given to Nguyen for her work in the journalism field while at UCLA.
Keller brought a whole new world to Andrew's eyes taking him to the Law School at the University of Utah, liberty park and introducing Valdez to tennis which became ultimately part of his lifelong goal and passion.
He served as assistant public defender in the Broward County, Florida, Public Defender's Office in 1975 and as assistant state attorney in the Broward County State Attorney's Office in 1975 to 1978.
Consideration for federal district court In February 2013, Kahn was named as one of five finalists being considered for nomination to a seat on the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut left vacant when Judge Mark R.
According to a 2008 report by the National Legal Aid & Defender Association, Missouri ranks 49th in per capita legal aid spending.
Van de Kamp appealed to the United States Supreme Court, who declined to hear the case, thus effectively legalizing the production of adult films.
Butler was the first sitting Wisconsin Supreme Court justice to be defeated in a reelection campaign since 1967.
In June 2023, it was reported that Noriega had received the support of enough senators to be confirmed, with 19 members of the State Senate having expressed their intent to vote for his confirmation.
Like in civil proceedings, however, the legal aid fees are lower than fees the lawyer could otherwise claim from the client.
See also List of African-American federal judges List of African-American jurists References External links Jia M.
As a student at Boyle County High School, he was a journalist, writing stories for The Advocate-Messenger.
Anthony Wayne Ishii (born 1946) is a senior United States district judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of California.
superior court President Barack Obama nominated Di Toro on February 3, 2011, to a 15-year term as an associate judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia to the seat vacated by Judith E.
Landry appointed Rémy Voisin Starns, who had served as state public defender since 2020, to lead the restructured system.
Traynor was in private practice in Dover from 1982 to 1990 at the law firm Brown, Shiels & Chasanov, and in Wilmington from 1990 to 2014 at the law firm Prickett, Jones & Elliot.
She earned a Bachelor of Science, magna cum laude, from the University of Nebraska Omaha in 1990 and a Juris Doctor from Creighton University School of Law in 1993.
Other sources of funding include grants from the Law Foundation of Ontario, as well as private donations.
The use of conditional fee agreements, commonly known as "no-win no-fee", was extended to most civil court cases.
Education Thomas received a Bachelor of Science degree, magna cum laude from the University of Maryland and a Juris Doctor magna cum laude from Harvard Law School.
Michael Lee Bender (born January 7, 1942) is an American attorney and jurist, who served as the 44th Chief Justice of the Colorado Supreme Court.
Adachi's 2017 documentary Defender, co-directed with Jim Choi, won best documentary at the Independent Television Festival.
Gunigona's great-grandfather, Galicano Apacible served as governor of Batangas, a province of the Philippines.
Court of appeals service On April 27, 2022, President Joe Biden announced he would nominate Merriam to serve as a United States circuit judge for the Second Circuit.
The Witness Intermediary Scheme (WIS) was set up by the Ministry of Justice’s Better Trials Unit to implement the intermediary special measure.
References External links Media related to Chad "Corntassel" Smith at Wikimedia Commons Chad Smith official website
He has represented notable personalities such as Fetty Wap, Ronald Isley, Remy Boy Monty, Nick E Beats and Adnan Khan aka Menace (the producer of Desiigner's hit song "Panda" which also appeared on Kanye West's The Life of Pablo album as "Father Stretch My Hands, Pt.
Staten Island Legal Services (SILS) is an American non-profit agency providing free civil legal assistance to low-income people on Staten Island in New York City.
Before he was due home from his trip, he accompanied a friend to the border of Norte de Santander Department (Colombia) and Táchira, Venezuela, a border area that is a dangerous region.
Rodriguez at the Biographical Directory of Federal Judges, a publication of the Federal Judicial Center.
In an interview with CBS News, Patel denied being part of any Ukraine back channel, saying the call with Giuliani was personal.
See also List of African-American federal judges List of African-American jurists List of first women lawyers and judges in California References Sources Phyllis J.
From 1993 to 1994, she served as an associate at the law firm of McLane, Graf, Raulerson & Middleton, P.A.
In the 2013 elections he stated: "I have sensitivity to the separation of powers and deference to the appropriate branches of government.
On June 1, 2021, Chief Justice John Roberts appointed Mehta to the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court.
Biography Cappelletti was born in Providence, Rhode Island, the son of carpenter Armand "Mondo" Cappelletti and Rose Marie (Carpinelli).
He also helped to modernize the Department of Justice by beginning support of DNA forensic investigation.
She resigned from the position to focus on her campaign for governor in the 2021 primary election, which she lost to Terry McAuliffe.
Tigar practiced complex commercial litigation, and became a partner, at the law firm Keker & Van Nest from 1994 until 2002.
She returned to Micronesia to serve as a law clerk for the Supreme Court in 1990, and passed the bar examination in 1992, becoming the nation's first female Micronesian lawyer.
Statewide Division: Collateral Review Lawyers who are within the OPD Collateral Review Division represent OPD clients in state post conviction hearings, coram nobis, state habeas corpus, motions to reopen, parole revocation, and extradition hearings.
From 2000 to 2004, she worked at Stetler, Duffy & Rotert, Ltd., a white-collar criminal defense law firm.
21 PA.J.Const.L 33 (2018) Obtaining his license to practice law in California in 1986 and in Arizona in 1988, Eckerstrom was an Assistant Public Defender in Pima County, Arizona from 1988 to 1994.
2 Hare Court is a barristers' chambers specialising in criminal and regulatory law, located in the Inner Temple, one of the four Inns of Court.
In a statement of purpose published in 1906, the founders wrote, legal aid is based on the principle that justice is the right of all men, and aims to put the rich and poor on an actual equality before the law.
Jurists such as Mauro Cappelletti have argued that legal aid is essential to access to justice, as it enables individuals to enforce economic, social and cultural rights through legal mechanisms.
See also Ministry of Law (Singapore) External links Legal Aid Bureau Syariah Court (Singapore) Legal Aid Bureau’s Means Test Legal Aid Bureau’s Merits Test Assigned Solicitors
Prior to his appointment to the Court of Special Appeals by Governor Glendening in 2000, Krauser served as the chair of the Maryland Democratic Party.
The system is operative in several Commonwealth countries, including the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand and Canada.
During his time on the common pleas bench, he was instrumental in establishing Victim Impact Panels and Juvenile Drug Court (only the second such court in Pennsylvania).
Reagan was confirmed by the United States Senate on October 3, 2000, and received his commission on October 13, 2000.
Applications are reviewed by a volunteer committee of lawyers and former judges to determine whether new and significant evidence of innocence can be identified.
McCafferty at the Biographical Directory of Federal Judges, a publication of the Federal Judicial Center.
During the Carter administration, LSC extended access to civil legal services to every county in the United States and its offshore possessions.
Federal judicial service On April 28, 2024, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate Hwang to serve as a United States district judge of the United States District Court for the Central District of California.
In the early 1970s, when Forman was seven years old, his parents, who had never been married, separated.
Some practice-based law clinics with no academic link provide hands-on skills to lawyers, judges, and non-lawyers on practical dimensions of the law while offering legal services to clients.
Lack of funding has triggered a shift toward funding limited or "unbundled" legal assistance programs for pro se litigants, rather than full legal representation, which has a much higher cost-per-client.
At that time, the school was unaffiliated with Pennsylvania State University, but is now known as Penn State Dickinson Law.
is to provide high-quality legal services to individuals and groups unable to obtain legal services because of limited income, age, disability, discrimination and other barriers.
The court would then assign a lawyer, who was paid at the "going rate" – the same as what he or she would be paid, should they have been representing the prosecution.
Richard Miller of the Law society said it can be very difficult to find legal aid providers willing to take on a case.
He claimed this is because the Tennessee General Assembly has not authorized the charter of the consolidated government to restrict the authority of a legislative body to levy an ad valorem tax on property.
Richard Edward Neel Federico (born 1977) is an American lawyer from Kansas who is serving as a United States circuit judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit.
"A Judiciary That Is as Good as Its Promise: The Best Strategy for Preserving Judicial Independence," Vol.
Richard Hudson Bryan (born July 16, 1937) is an American retired politician and attorney who served as the 25th governor of Nevada from 1983 to 1989 and as a United States senator representing Nevada from 1989 until 2001.
The Louisiana Parole Project, also known as The Parole Project, is a non-profit organization dedicated to parole, probation, and sentencing reform in the United States.
Special projects have included defending the rights of the disabled to reasonable accommodations from the New York City Housing Authority.
He also served as an officer in the Delaware Army National Guard from 1990 to 1991, and was a commissioner on the Delaware River and Bay Authority from 2009 to 2014.
With some exceptions, clients must have incomes below 125% of the Federal Poverty guidelines which varies based on household size for most programs.
Keahey served on the Agriculture, Conservation and Forestry Committee, Business and Labor Committee, Fiscal Responsibility and Accountability Committee, Judiciary, and the Local Legislation No.
Justice and the Poor is a book on law and ethics first published in 1919, promoting the concept of free legal assistance for the poor.
While on the city council he was also an investment management consultant specializing in nonprofit organizations and endowments for RBC Dain Rauscher.
In 2012, he was appointed as a special advisor to Mitt Romney during the general election and co-chaired "Blacks for Romney" with U.S.
In the circumstances it is our respectful view that you should disclose immediately the fact of this meeting and what was discussed at it to both parties and afford them an opportunity to make submissions about it if they wish.
He joined the Wyomissing law firm of Rhoda, Stoudt & Bradley in 1986, becoming partner in 1988 and serving with that firm until 1997.
See also Legal Services Corporation Legal Services NYC Pro bono References External links Official website Decision in Williams v.
However, on June 30, 2014, the Court ruled that requiring closely held corporations to provide health-insurance coverage for methods of contraception that violate the sincerely held religious beliefs of the companies' owners violates the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993.
A group of 17 lawyers who regularly work at Manukau were so upset by these claims they demanded that any evidence of corruption should be presented to the police or Serious Fraud Office.
He set in place programs to help victims and witnesses, as well as quick response teams in cases of police officer-involved shootings.
He created and served as the presiding judge for Hennepin County's Drug Court from January 1, 1997 until June 30, 2000.
It takes on cases where there is no other source of assistance or where acting for the client will benefit the community by achieving change in the law or government policy.
Federal judicial service On November 17, 2017, Pryor was selected to serve as a United States magistrate judge to fill the vacancy left by the death of Magistrate Judge Denise K.
As a public defender, much of McClinton's focus has been on reforming Pennsylvania's criminal justice system.
A contentious election ensued, with Dudley attacking Farkas for his association with gambling lobbyists, and Farkas attacking Dudley over his history as a criminal defense attorney.
On April 11, 2014, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid filed a motion to invoke cloture on the nomination.
Whistleblower Aid is a nonprofit legal assistance organization co-founded by John Tye and Mark Zaid to help whistleblowers in government and the private sector.
Education and career Di Toro earned her Bachelor of Arts from Wesleyan University in 1989, her Master of Philosophy from the University of Oxford in 1991, her Juris Doctor from Stanford Law School in 1997 and her Master of Laws from Georgetown University Law Center in 1999.
Jeffrey Gordon Adachi (August 29, 1959 – February 22, 2019) was an American attorney, pension reform advocate, and politician who served as the Public Defender of San Francisco from 2003 to 2019.
The investigative journalist and Emmy nominated reporter has worked at various ABC, NBC and Fox Television stations across the country.
Mark Ellison KC defended Hogan Lovells solicitor Chris Grierson when he was accused of £1.27 million expenses fraud, as well as prosecuting on behalf of FCA in £7.4m gains insider dealing case.
Starting in May 2024, he was evaluated for an appointment as a senior judge and assumed office later that year.
Background In the May 2003 elections Kun stood for the Parliament of Nauru, and was elected to represent the Ubenide constituency.
State judicial service Drain served as a judge of the 36th District Court for Detroit from 1986 to 1987.
From October 2011 to March 2013, she served on the Drug Court committee for Superior Court, which she overhauled and gained national recognition.
Michael Joseph Reagan (born March 27, 1954) is a former United States district judge of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Illinois.
It is the only legal organization in the world dedicated exclusively to the protection and advancement of Native Hawaiian rights.
Williams acted as lead attorney or co-counsel in approximately ten trials in defense of clients charged with crimes ranging from firearms violations to bank fraud.
This includes $165.6 million for criminal, $70.2 million for family, $15.0 million for civil, and $19.4 million for the Waitangi Tribunal.
Federal judicial service On May 11, 2000, Darrah was nominated by President Bill Clinton to a seat on the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois vacated by George Michael Marovich.
This, according to a chronology of the history of legal services, was the first true legal aid organization.
In 2005 he conducted a judicial review into the fitness to be tried of David Eastman who had been convicted of murdering Australian policeman Colin Winchester.
As state officials urged voters to turn in ballots sooner rather than later as a result of this ruling, only 2,447 ballots arrived after Election Day, causing the plaintiffs to drop their case.
Millman a Lifetime Achievement Award for his "unwavering commitment to providing high-quality representation to indigent people on death row." He occasionally lectured at Stanford Law School.
James, Minnesota, Eckerstrom received his Bachelor of Arts magna cum laude from Yale University in 1982 and his Juris Doctor with Distinction from Stanford Law School in 1986.
In September 2020, California passed Assembly Bill 1950, which marked the first passage of REFORM-sponsored legislation.
Baldwin organized Legal Aid, which was initially funded through private donations and subscriptions.
Practice areas The set's practice areas include: The chambers are considered "the go-to place" for criminal defence as well as for prosecution.
Murphy recognised that: "one of the basic causes of the inequality of citizens before the laws is the absence of adequate and comprehensive legal aid arrangements throughout Australia ...
Early life and education Born in Caney, Kansas, Wahl suffered several traumatic losses early in life.
Personal life Crespo is married to Abby Shafroth, a fellow graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Law.
He has been a member of the Oregon State Bar since 1983 and is also a member of the New York State Bar.
In 2022, he rejected efforts by Donald Trump to dismiss lawsuits accusing the former President of legal responsibility in the attacks.
Van de Kamp accepted their judgment and allowed the trial prosecutor, Roger Kelly, to move to dismiss all 10 murder charges against Buono and release him with an eye toward trying him for pandering.
Duarte ruling, which deemed the felon-in-possession statute unconstitutional for non-violent felons post-Bruen (2022).
She served on San Diego’s Commission on Gang Prevention and Intervention and volunteered as a legal reviewer for the California Innocence Project.
Career Following his admission to the Alabama bar, Butler joined the law firm of his grandfather and father, later known as Hamilton, Butler, Riddick, Tarlton and Sullivan in Mobile, Alabama.
Early years Born on September 24, 1943, in Rome, Georgia, Lee Robinson attended Bibb County Public Schools.
Legal career Fulton was a judicial law clerk for Judge Diana Murphy of the United States Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals after graduating from law school.
The Immigrant Justice Corps is a New York City-based fellowship program that provides free legal counsel to low-income immigrant communities.
When the New Jersey Department of the Public Advocate was established in 1974, Van Ness was placed as its chief, and the Public Defender office was incorporated into the Public Advocate office.
Justice Murphy left the High Court of American Samoa in 1987 when he moved to Honolulu, Hawaii where he took a position as an Assistant Federal Public Defender and served in that position until his death on March 13, 1992.
Programs Demographics AJSOCAL invests significant resources in collecting, analyzing and disseminating ethnic and language-specific demographic data on Asian Americans.
Electoral history References External links Campaign website Appearances on C-SPAN Profile at Vote Smart
When she became a superior court judge there was no district court in that jurisdiction, and so the duties of that role were Cutler's as well.
In September 2004 Kun became controversial after stating that Health Minister Kieren Keke was ineligible to serve.
The New York Times Editorial Board cited New Orleans as an example of systemic failures in indigent defense while applauding the Department of Justice's oversight efforts.
BBC analysis found up to a million people are in areas without legal aid for housing, and 15 million are in areas with one provider.
Effective May 1, 1970, Conn was appointed as a public defender for the State of Indiana, becoming the first woman and first African American to hold the position.
Notable cases In May 2020, Edelman presided over the trial of Christian Wingfield on charges of illegal possession of a firearm by a felon.
In 2020, it received a $150,000 grant from the Omidyar Network, the philanthropic investment firm founded by eBay founder Pierre Omidyar.
Sanders discovered that more than 140 cases might have been mishandled due to the use of jailhouse informants.
The Southern Baptist Convention subsequently passed a resolution calling on "all media to refuse advertising that promotes homosexuality or any other lifestyle that is destructive to the family".
In 2010, the team won the Clark Cup for the League's championship and Cooper was named USHL Coach of the Year.
Career After graduating from law school, Keahey served as a public defender, assistant district attorney, and private lawyer.
It is the public interest law office of the Los Angeles County and Beverly Hills Bar Associations and the Southern California affiliate of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law.
Thomas William Murphy (April 11, 1935 – March 13, 1992) was an Associate Chief Justice of the High Court of American Samoa.
In 2000 the Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation sent Moreno more than 50 lawsuits against various HMOs.
In college, she worked to fight racism through the YWCA and lived in a racially-integrated communal home at the University of Kansas in the 1940s.
She received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Stanford University in 1974 and a Juris Doctor, cum laude, from Santa Clara University School of Law in 1976.
Professional affiliations Guingona's professional affiliations include the California Trial Lawyers Association, the State Bar of California, the Bar Association of San Francisco, the Filipino Bar Association of Northern California, and the California Public Defenders Association.
Under her administration Alderson federal prison, the first facility of its kind for women, was established at Alderson, West Virginia, with Mary Belle Harris as superintendent.
He has said that when the police pull drivers over for minor traffic infractions and seize their cash, they do not "respect fundamental notions of due process".
His Oregon office worked for Brandon Mayfield when he was arrested due to being erroneously linked with the 2004 Madrid train bombings by the FBI.
In November 2005, he was unanimously elected by his fellow court members to a six-year term as chief justice to replace Wallace P.
The project was set up to address the flaws in the country's justice system, a legacy of decades of colonial and military rule that is among the many challenges facing Myanmar as it opens up and transitions to a civilian government.
Cunningham also served as a hearing officer for the Kentucky Board of Claims from 1981 to 1985 and as a trial commissioner for the Lyon County District court from 1989 to 1992.
In January 2016, Governor Jay Inslee appointed her as a judge of the Washington Court of Appeals to fill the vacancy left by the retirement of acting chief judge Stephen Brown.
In 2011, President Barack Obama appointed Thompson to serve on the Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.
In addition, Siegler's clinic's work challenging these sting operations was discussed in a 2026 episode of Last Week Tonight, and Siegler was thanked in the episode's end credits.
She graduated from Wallace Rider Farrington High School in Honolulu in 1980, received a Bachelor of Science from Hawaii Loa College in 1984 and a Juris Doctor from Gonzaga University in the United States in 1990.
In the same year, Innocence Canada experienced a period of financial strain as the Cartwright grant began to dry up and the organization struggled to find new sources of funding.
Tenure Juarez was the first Indigenous person to serve as a Seattle city councilmember, and later the first Indigenous Council President.
Burke now works in the Milwaukee office of the Wisconsin State Public Defender as an assistant state public defender.
However, in the early 1970s, large government funding cuts forced the LAA to reduce its staff and number of neighborhood offices.
From 2002 to 2015, Nachmanoff served in the Office of the Federal Public Defender for the Eastern District of Virginia starting as the first assistant public defender from 2002 to 2005, the acting federal public defender from 2005 to 2007, and the chief federal public defender from 2007 to 2015.
The housing project (Dunlap Creek Village Projects) was located in a neighborhood marred by crime and violence.
He graduated from the University of Florida with a Bachelor of Arts in political science in 1967, and entered the University of Florida College of Law.
Since 2020 she has served as a magistrate judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia, after being appointed by Robert E.
Career From 1977 to 1981, Viken served as an assistant United States attorney for the District of South Dakota and in 1981 became the Acting United States Attorney for the District of South Dakota.
In the 1970s, he was a leader of the Red Tide, a newspaper and youth organization which he cofounded in 1971.
Kelly at the Biographical Directory of Federal Judges, a publication of the Federal Judicial Center.
Van Ness graduated Rutgers Law School in 1963, then becoming an Assistant United States Attorney for the District of New Jersey.
One effect of this, as set out in the UK Supreme Court Practice Direction 1 is "The most important general restriction on rights of appeal is section 54(4) of the Access to Justice Act 1999.
She served as chief judge from December 17, 2014 to February 1, 2021 when she assumed senior status.
Five days before Election Day 2020, the 8th circuit ruled that all Minnesota ballots received after Election Day should be set aside, leaving it to the district court whether those ballots should be thrown out.
Legal aid in civil and other non-criminal cases Legal aid can be provided in civil (which includes family law), administrative, labour, social welfare and even constitutional disputes before courts if a party is not in a position to pay court and counsel fees.
Orlins graduated summa cum laude from Syracuse University (2005), and cum laude from Fordham University School of Law (2008).
Feinman was a member of the Supreme Court Justices Association of the State of New York, serving first as its first vice president and then as its president.
References External links Richard Federico at the Biographical Directory of Federal Judges, a publication of the Federal Judicial Center.
He also introduced the STATES Act in 2018 and 2019 to protect states from federal interference regarding both medical and recreational use.
Bender also taught criminal law, criminal trial advocacy, and employment discrimination law at the University of Denver College of Law.
The American Bar Association's committee on federal judicial recommendations unanimously rated Bastian as well-qualified for the position.
In addition to all Democrats on the committee, Cartwright received the support of Republican Senator Lindsey Graham.
Function Packaging is necessary to protect products, and is now done mainly through the use of packaging machinery.
Drum pump, barrel pump, and transfer pump refer to pumps that are used to empty barrels, tanks, IBCs and drums.
An orbital stretch wrapper is a means of applying stretchable plastic film to a load, consisting of a roll (or rolls) of stretch wrap supported on a vertical rotating ring and a means of passing a load through the ring's eye horizontally.
References External links The historical corporate records of Graco are available for research use at the Minnesota Historical Society.
Now label printer applicators can communicate directly with an array of devices and hosts on the production line without the aid of a computer.
The Danish engineers mainly focused on the invention of the winding machine, whereas the Norwegian ones were responsible for the development of the process enabling this machine to produce GRP pipes and tanks.
The bubble is simultaneously being cooled in its interior, via a cooling system, and on the exterior surface, through the use of an air ring, to solidify the material.
Table saw Tenoner or tenoning machine Thicknesser or Thickness planer Round pole milling machine Round pole sanding machine Panel Line Woodworking machines These machines are used in large-scale manufacturing of cabinets and other wooden or panel products.
Simplified Inspection, with linked tolerances, on-machine probes and inspection workplans tied to part tolerances.
After Wilhelm Schaeffler returned from Polish imprisonment in mid-September 1952, this company together with Schaeffler KG was liquidated.
However, battery-powered, solar-powered and hydrogen-powered sets are available; light towers with electrodeless lamps lighting are also sold.
Dumpers with rubber tracks are used in special circumstances and provide a more even distribution of weight compared to tires.
The weigher’s computer determines the weight of product in each individual weigh hopper and identifies which combination contains the weight closest to the target weight of 100 g.
With the completion of their Tsurumi Plant in Osaka in 1940, they launched as a joint-stock company with capital of three million yen in 1941.
See also Drawbar force gauge Milling machine Machine tools References External links Don’t Forget The Drawbar, Modern Machine Shop magazine, March 2006, By Peter Zelinski
Methods Permanent fastening binds items by driving the staple through the material and into an anvil, a small metal plate that bends the ends, usually inward.
The two spindles of U-JIN's computer numerical controlled double-head friction welding machines are driven by servo motors that allow the angular position of their motor shaft to be controlled, as well as the speed of rotation and acceleration, since they are equipped with position sensors.
In 2015, the Hydraulic Press Channel, a YouTube channel dedicated to crushing objects with a hydraulic press, was created by Lauri Vuohensilta, a factory owner from Tampere, Finland.
In addition, since the spools are slightly loose on the shaft, they act like clutches that slip when products are required to accumulate (stop moving and bump up against each other.
A bricklayer under ideal conditions can lay as many as 500 bricks a day; if the hod carrier is serving a team of two then he must move 1,000 bricks although it is not uncommon for experienced hod carriers to serve three bricklayers.
The one-half turn can easily be done precisely using any indexing plate with an even number of holes and rotating to the halfway point (Hole #8 on the 16-hole ring).
This used to be mainly a research tool, but with the advent of cheap, industrialized laser-diffraction analyzers, its use for routine control is becoming more frequent.
Concrete moisture meters measure only the top inch at most and this area is drier than the concrete further down.
It was established in 2013 on the initiative of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of Russia and Rostec State Corporation.
In 2024, SACMI achieved a turnover of 1.728 billion euros, with over 4,700 employees, 70 production, distribution and service companies in 25 countries worldwide.
In October 2014 the Russian government decided to appoint Stankoprom as an engineering competence center and the locomotive of the process of introducing domestic machine tools into production.
Seed funding of $75,000 was provided by Jake Lodwick ($50,000) and Adrian Bowyer and his wife, Christine ($25,000).
Configurations In reciprocating power drills, the drilling cylinder is mounted on a feed-screw, such that as the hole is drilled and the drilling point recedes from the rock face, the drill-bit continues to move into it, while the anchor point (on the tripod or column) remains in place.
In 1951, the Saar Nadellager oHG was founded in Homburg as the first INA branch in Germany at that time, however, the Saarland was not yet part of the Federal Republic of Germany, but was under French administration (1947 to 1956).
The image processing system compares objects to user-defined accept/reject thresholds to classify objects and actuate the separation system.
When compared to traditional wooden matting, composite mats are lighter in weight yet still can handle heavy loads.
It is used to determine the apparent inclination of an object or surface and for matching water level elevations at locations that are too far apart for a spirit level to span.
Working principle A belt dryer or belt cooler is a device designed for the particularly gentle thermal treatment of product.
The most versatile type is the 3x360-degree cross laser levels, which draw horizontal and vertical lines on all walls.
As the tray with an item approaches its destination the tray is tilted to slide the object into the chute.
The source files needed to build the devices were put on Thingiverse, allowing anyone to make one from scratch.
In 2003, the diaphragm pump LEWA ecoflow came into the market, which has been a major support to the company's income since then.
With many industries, the effectiveness of the heat seal is critical to product safety so the heat sealing operation must closely controlled with documented Verification and validation protocols.
In other words, the 2.4 model has a stationary print plate and separate belts for moving the print head along the z-axis, while most other CoreXY printers on the other hand have a fixed gantry and a print plate that moves vertically with lead screws.
Management Rocco Lo Stimolo is the founder and current General Manager of Meccanotecnica Riesi s.r.l.
The layoffs resulted from an economic crisis in Asia, as well as lower demand for American steel resulting from the low import prices.
It is fitted with a cutting wheel that cuts a microtrench with smaller dimensions than can be achieved with conventional trench digging equipment.
A staircase jig is a woodworking tool that incorporates both a right angle and an acute angle in its design.
Mechanical probes, the earliest form of precision measurement tools, rely on direct contact for measuring and are now rarely used due to their lower precision.
Initially, production was focused on multi-machines, pasteurizers and batch freezers, until 1974, when Genesio Bravo conceived and built the first multi-purpose machine for the production of artisanal gelato, called "Trittico".
Chief executive Peter Löscher has supported the German government's planned Energiewende, its transition to renewable energy technologies, calling it a "project of the century" and saying Berlin's target of reaching 35% renewable energy sources by 2020 was feasible.
See also Automatic label placement Document automation Food labelling Label printer Packaging and labeling Thermal printer Thermal transfer printer == References ==
External links Lathes.co.uk information archive on hand-powered shapers YouTube video of shaper mechanism YouTube video of a vintage shaper in action YouTube video of a newly built hobbyist shaper in action
A tilt-tray sorter is a mechanical assembly similar to a conveyor belt but instead of a continuous belt, it consists of individual trays traveling in the same direction.
Board of directors The board of directors is composed of thirteen members, in office until the approval of the financial statements at 31 December 2020, with Alberto Vacchi in the role of chairman and executive CEO.
The Fresno Scraper is a machine pulled by horses used for constructing canals and ditches in sandy soil.
The Morgan name comes from the RepRap convention of naming printers after famous deceased biologists.
See also RepRap Prusa i3 Prusa Mini References External links RepRap Ormerod page on RepRap.org Open Source repository on Github by RepRapPro
The rate of taper is 1:20 on diameter, in other words 0.600" on diameter per foot, .050" on diameter per inch.
The RepRap Snappy is able to create 73% of its own parts by volume with a design that eliminates as many of the non 3D printed parts as possible including belts and bearings which are replaced with a rack and pinion system.
Since 2019, the company Pon Equipment has been offering converted 323F crawler excavators from Caterpillar as the so-called Z-Line.
Vanderlande supplies material handling systems for airports, warehousing and the parcel distribution industry.
The RepRap Ormerod has a 200 mm × 200 mm × 200 mm build volume, uses a Bowden extruder, it also has a micro SD card and USB and Ethernet connections allowing it to be connected to a network.
They are used to blend and homogenize the components of solid rocket propellant, ensuring a consistent and stable mixture of fuel & oxidizer.
The hammerhead or tup was interchangeable, with a number of differently shaped dies which may account for the hammer's reported variable force of between 75 and 100 tons.
A variant is the all-wheel-drive wheeled bulldozer, which generally has four large rubber-tired wheels, hydraulically operated articulated steering, and a hydraulically actuated blade mounted forward of the articulation joint.
Controlled feedback systems allow the ram to be proportionally controlled to within fixed points as commanded.
This pistol's frame design incorporates external rails which fit closely with the slide, thus eliminating play in the mechanism during firing.
It is almost always unpowered, though can have auxiliary hydraulics attached in order for adjustments to be made without leaving the seat of the tractor.
Platforms The considerations that determine the ideal platform for a specific application include the nature of the product – large or small, wet or dry, fragile or unbreakable, round or easy to stabilize – and the user's objectives.
The tonnage needed to cut and form the material is well known, so sizing tooling for a specific job is a fairly straightforward task.
To use a vacuum table one must place the work upon the table and use air dams around the work to minimize the loss of vacuum to atmospheric pressure.
History Originally located in Brooklyn, New York, the company moved its headquarters to Melbourne, Florida in 1998, which is where it is today.
If one were to hold a strip of used carbon ribbon up to the light, one would see an exact negative of the images that have been printed.
The belt is based on the CoreXY pattern, but with the belts stacked on top of each other and without the crossover found in some other CoreXY designs, which allows for favorable motor placement.
The clamping is often done with each pair of jaws consisting of one fixed jaw and one movable jaw (hydraulically actuated), thematically similar to advanced milling vises.
Alternative vacuum table surfaces Source: Scratch prone substrate The material you are working with may be sensitive to aluminum.
A tilt-tray sorter is a continuous-loop sortation conveyor that uses a technique of tilting a tray at a chute to slide the object into the chute.
During the '1980s and the '1990s further branches are opened in Asia (Yokohama, 1984; Hong Kong, 1985; Fuji, 1991), Europe (London, 1984) and United States (Miami, 1990).
The compartment houses its own driver's cockpit that can be independently driven and requires a working radius of 29 meters.
The first mechanized palletizer was designed, built, and installed in 1948 by a company formerly known as Lamson Corp.
For each new position, the portion of the bar between the rollers takes on the shape of a cubic modified by the end conditions imposed by the adjacent sections of the bar.
The jaws are driven by hydraulically actuated eccentrics which crush material to a desired particle size.
As the jobs grew more demanding, the hammers grew correspondingly larger, and the Schneiders eventually saw a need for a hammer of colossal proportions.
Introduced in 1990, these machines sort letters at a rate of approximately 36,000 pieces per hour, with a 99% accuracy rate.
The tradition of marking new builds with serial numbers has lived on, and users who build their own Voron printer can be assigned their own serial number as proof of the hard work they have put into sourcing parts, assembling, and configuring the printer.
Heat guns, often called hot air guns or hot air stations for this application, are used in electronics to desolder and rework surface-mounted circuit board components.
History MSS construction was developed in the 1960s in Europe; the first bridge built with a MSS was the Kettiger Hangbrücke in Germany, completed in 1959.
Vibratory bowl feeders are also used for automatic feeding of small to large and differently shaped industrial parts.
NATs are used across the world by materials testing laboratories, universities, oil companies, regional laboratories, contractors and consulting engineers.
In 1912 the company received a contract for a number of Orfey-class destroyers originally designed by AG Vulcan Stettin.
External links Official website Business data for ABB: Documents and clippings about ABB in the 20th Century Press Archives of the ZBW
Most machines are horizontally oriented, but vertical machines are used in some niche applications such as insert molding, allowing the machine to take advantage of gravity.
Classification Stabilized soil mixing plants are of two kinds: the portable stabilized soil mixing plant and the stationary stabilized soil mixing plant.
It is also one of the largest ground vehicles in current operation, and – by its official production in 2013 – became the largest self-propelled ground vehicle by gross size, beating out the NASA crawler-transporters.
On an extrusion saw, a backgauge is responsible for feeding material at exact amounts past a saw blade.
Between 1893 and 1897, MAN, in collaboration with Rudolf Diesel, developed the first diesel engine, a single-cylinder four-stroke engine, which achieved a specific consumption of 324 g/kWh and produced 17.8 hp (13.1 kW) at 154 rpm.
Epoxy granite is used instead of cast iron and steel for improved vibration damping, longer tool life, and lower assembly cost, and thus better properties for stabilizing and housing machines.
Photodetector/Electric eye: Is an alternate method which uses a beam of light broken by the label as it passes over/between the sensors.
A breaker is a powerful percussion hammer fitted to an excavator for demolishing hard (rock or concrete) structures.
The spinoff was completed in October 2022 when the business was listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange under the new name of Accelleron.
IMTEX (International Machine Tool & Manufacturing Technology Exhibition) is South and South-East Asia's largest machine tool and manufacturing show held annually at Bangalore International Exhibition Centre.
Controlling movement For a given robot the only parameters necessary to completely locate the end effector (gripper, welding torch, etc.) of the robot are the angles of each of the joints or displacements of the linear axes (or combinations of the two for robot formats such as SCARA).
In 1966 he founds his company, the Fabio Perini, with a view to designing new engineering technologies and manufacturing industrial machinery for the tissue converting industry.
The 2X model was intended as an experimental version of the 2 that includes a completely enclosed build area, redesigned dual-extruders, and a heated aluminum build platform – all of which enable printing with ABS plastic and dual-material printing.
A benefit of ultrasonic welding is that there is no drying time as with conventional adhesives or solvents, so the workpieces do not need to remain in a fixture for longer than it takes for the weld to cool.
By 1962, the USDA's Agricultural Marketing Service had developed an electric seed counter that used vibration to move seeds to the edge of the machine for counting.
How a firm chooses to cost major and minor repairs vary from firm to firm depending on the costing strategies being used.
This mechanism is necessary because of the large force needed to drive the staples through solid wood or masonry, and because the staple must be completely inserted before the workpiece has time to move .
Around the mid-1990s, the company decided to expand into the machine tool market, manufacturing machining centres for the mechanical industry.
This approach would further reduce the cost of using hangprinters to make large scale products as the cost of recycled shredded plastic is ~$1–5/kg while filament is generally around $20/kg.
Heat Treated Alloy Steel - Providing a drawbar with more strength by being resistant and flexible this material is used in many milling machines within the industry.
Generally, conveyor lines are not stopped unless there is maintenance required, or there is an emergency stop, called an E-stop.
Heat guns are also used for functional testing of overheat protection devices, in order to safely simulate an overheat condition.
This container weld must be able to withstand high pressure and stress and must be airtight to contain the butane.
The water level is lower-tech than the laser level, but it can be more accurate over long distances, and works without a sightline, such as around corners.
Further sales to Brazil were interrupted by the war, but in the post-war period another was set up in São Paulo in 1952, and Belo Horizonte in 1954.
With FSS, when the carrier receives them they are ready to be delivered without need for any further manual sorting.
In the 1970s, KraussMaffei were involved in the development of the Transrapid magnetic levitation train.
Unusually for its time, the company leased out its shoe manufacturing equipment, rather than selling it.
In 1993, the company started a dryer manufacturing facility in Melbourne, Florida, and the remainder of the company moved there soon afterwards.
References External links http://discover.mfg.com/it/suppliers/Meccanotecnica-Riesi-738738 Montedoro, Giuseppe (20 June 2014).
In 2012, the Ultimaker Original was awarded Fastest and Most Accurate 3D printer available by MAKE Magazine.
Other methods can be used to wipe a label onto a surface, or even place two duplicate or unique labels on different sides of a product.
For a comparison of scale, the world's largest modern hydraulic forging presses can apply force of about 80,000 tons.
Since multiple jacks can be operated simultaneously by hydraulic controllers, they can be used in tandem to lift very large loads of thousands of tons.
Controls of this type are very widely used in industries with significant sheet metal fabrication, such as the automotive, appliance, and aerospace industries.
The main movements involved in boring are: Cutting motion (rotary movement): Performed by the tool, known as a boring bar.
The company exploited thousands of slave labourers from France, Russia and Poland in its plants in German-occupied Poland, which the company admitted only in 2008.
The item or load can go through the ring on a conveyor or can be placed into the ring by a pallet truck.
A steamroller (or steam roller) is a form of road roller – a type of heavy construction machinery used for leveling surfaces, such as roads or airfields – that is powered by a steam engine.
Belt dryers are ideally suited to drying almost any non-flowing product and more granular products that require a lower throughput capacity.
It is common for dry pasta lines to run continuously for up to six weeks, with packaging done in shifts.
Use Any two bars of same or different diameters are joined using the couplers by rotating like nut and bolt.
How drawbar force gauges work Modern drawbar force gauges typically are based on a force sensor that uses bonded strain gauges and electronics to convert the resulting output into a digital display for the user to view.
In the 2000s, innovation accelerated with the introduction of electronic engine controls, advanced telematics, and load-sensing hydraulics.
A bar puller is a tool for automatically drawing in material (round tubes or solid bars) on a CNC lathe.
8, 12 or 16 m/min) Panel boring equipment classified by number of boring heads Single line boring machine Multi line boring machine Panel automatic packing equipment See also List of production topics References External links Media related to Woodworking machinery at Wikimedia Commons
KraussMaffei planned to cut 510 jobs worldwide by 2023, most of them in Germany, as the company reported in early 2020.
IMTMA continues to host the IMTEX (metal cutting) every odd year and IMTEX FORMING (metal forming) every even year at BIEC.
Christian Schmidt, the CEO of AE&E at the time, saw the German locations as complementary to Von Roll's activities, while the Czech and Australian locations were complementary to AE&E Austria.
Power ranges from small 10 kW (13 hp) single cylinder engines, all the way up to 70 kW (100 hp) multi fuel V8 engines.
Three point road graders can be viewed as a specific type of box blade, and are used to grade and maintain dirt and gravel roads.
According to an Ernst & Young study published in December 2023, Siemens and SAP were the only German companies of the top 100 most valuable companies by market capitalization worldwide.
In many cases, the tensile strength of the bimetallic joint is higher than that of the softer base material.
Due to its (relatively) small size and versatility, backhoe loaders are very common in urban engineering and small construction projects (such as building a small house, fixing urban roads, etc.) as well as developing countries.
The trade fair provides platform for construction equipment manufacturers, component suppliers, and service providers to showcase their products and services.
Operator safety and assistance Technology is applied to improve operator safety and situational awareness.
Machine Tool standards are developed and maintained by ASME B5 Committee, which operates under ASME's Board on Standardization and Testing.
Steam drills found greater use in surface quarries than in underground mines, as there they could be much closer to the requisite boilers.
In current industrial practice, shapers have been largely superseded by other machine tools (especially of the CNC type), including milling machines, grinding machines, and broaching machines.
They also changed print file formats from the S3G format used by earlier printers to the new .makerbot format.
Medical technology was expanded by the purchase of the American Intermedics Group for one billion Swiss francs in 1988.
The register is normally shallow and parallel sided and a light push fit in the female register of the chuck.
The firm started out as "Engineers, Millwrights, Iron & Brass Founders, Plumbers etc", according to the listing in Kelly's Directory.
They soon moved to roller chain and conveyor equipment production, ceasing bicycle chain manufacture in 1928.
The largest high-speed mixer known on the market has a tank volume of 2500 litres, which corresponds to a PVC batch size of about 1160 kg and is combined with a horizontal cooler 8600 L.
Hot wire sealing involves a heated wire that both cuts the surfaces and joins them with a molten edge bead.
Desoutter Industrial Tools founded in Great Britain in 1914, now headquartered in France, is an industrial manufacturer providing Process Control & Data Analysis Software, as well as electric and formerly pneumatic assembly tools.
Touch probes are tools used for precision measurements in CNC (Computer Numerical Control) machining processes.
Regularly checking the drawbar pull using a drawbar force gauge ensures the spindle and tool stay in tune so that your machine stays running efficiently.
Items are loaded onto the passing trays at the front end of the sorter and travel towards a series of destinations on either side of the sorter.
Nikkiso is market leader in Japan in the water conditioning of nuclear and thermal power plants, it supplies various pumps and flaps for the thrust reversal in jet aircraft.
However, when a manipulation task requires less than 6 DoF, the use of lower mobility manipulators, with fewer than 6 DoF, may bring advantages in terms of simpler architecture, easier control, faster motion and lower cost.
A number of other C-series collets (1C, 3C, 4C, 5C, 16C, 20C & 25C) with different holding ranges also exist.
Starting in 2022, the company was to move its headquarters and location in Allach in phases to an industrial estate then under construction in the community of Vaterstetten, which is located north of the village of Parsdorf.
The structure and position of the blades inside the mixer guarantee homogeneous material dispersion.
A water level (Greek: Aλφαδολάστιχο or (υδροστάθμη) [Alfadolasticho]) is a siphon utilizing two or more parts of the liquid water surface to establish a local horizontal line or plane of reference.
As a press tool requires a matching punch and die set, there are two corresponding turrets, above and below the bed, for punch and die.
A Delivery Bar Code Sorter (DBCS) is a mail sorting machine used primarily by the United States Postal Service.
The amount of spring back depends upon the elastic compliance (inverse of stiffness) of the material relative to its ductility.
Groups Equipment Manufacturing Group Metallurgy Manufacturing Group Boiler Manufacturing Group Bridges and Steel Structure Manufacturing Group Machining and Assembly Group External links Description of Machine Sazi Arak == References ==
Testing requirements Some standards like the American Welding Society (AWS) require the individuals who are conducting the inspection or test to have a certain level of qualification.
C-MAT As a result of IMTMA's interaction, the Government of India in the year 2009 constituted a C-MAT (Core Advisory Group for Research and Development in the Machine Tools Sector).
Burn-in ovens in electronics device fabrication, are designed for dynamic and static burn-in of integrated circuits and other electronic devices, including laser diodes.
Most of the machines that Bridgeport made between 1938 and 1965 used a Morse taper #2, and from about 1965 onward most used an R8 taper.
These tools are easier to squeeze and better place pressure at the front of the tool where the staple is ejected.
The Wyman-Gordon 50,000-ton forging press is a forging press located at the Wyman-Gordon Grafton Plant that was built as part of the Heavy Press Program by the United States Air Force.
As the vehicle moved along, these removed any surface material that had become stuck to the roll, to prevent a build-up of material and ensure a flat finish was maintained.
A rotary transfer machine is a machine tool, typically for metal working by machining, comprising a large indexing table with machining stations surrounding the table.
Due to the lack of long-term stability and very poor damping properties, steel fabricated structures are seldom used where high precision is required.
Uses Where the standard CMM is suitable for prismatic parts, the Cylindrical CMM is ideally suited for cylindrical parts.
Machine tool base Machine tools and other high-precision machines rely upon high stiffness, long-term stability, and excellent damping characteristics of the base material for their static and dynamic performance.
Ride on power trowels range in size from 1.8 m (6 ft) machines weighing 270–320 kg (600–700 lb), up to 3.7 m (12 ft) machines weighing over 910 kg (2,000 lb).
Demaco was founded in 1914 making it the oldest pasta equipment manufacturer in the United States and the only one that makes industrial capacity machines in America.
NEUMAN & ESSER acquired from MAN Turbo the entire division of After-Sales Service for Borsig-Berlin piston compressors built in Berlin up to the end of 1995.
Industrial agitators are machines used to stir or mix fluids in industries that process products in the chemical, food, pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries.
In many instances the cost of a bridge crane can be largely offset with savings from not renting mobile cranes in the construction of a facility that uses a lot of heavy process equipment.
Concrete moisture meters, either non-pin or pin meters are affected by what it sees in the concrete.
In August 2013, Siemens won a $966.8 million order for power plant components from oil firm Saudi Aramco, the largest bid it has ever received from the Saudi company.
This innovation permitted the first continuous production of long pasta on a manufacturing line instead of making product in batches.
Mechanical brake stretch wrappers are manual stretch wrapping systems which consist of a simple structure supporting a roll of film to be stretched and a mechanical brake which acts on the film roll, creating resistance to turning and stretching the film as it is fed out.
Die set A die set consists of a set of punches (male) and dies (female) which, when pressed together, form a hole in a workpiece (and may also deform the workpiece in some desired manner).
The lid or "end" is usually tinplated steel (food) or aluminum (drinks) while the body can be of metal (such as cans for beverages and soups), paperboard (whisky cans) or plastic.
In 1995 UMG was acquired by Venture Capitalists Apax Partners Corporate Finance Limited, but after financial difficulties UMG went into administration in 2000.
Morgan printers are now manufactured full-time by the inventor in a small workshop factory in the House4Hack makerspace.
An article in Industrie magazine accuses the executive board of the A-Tec subgroup AE&E of deception through accounting tricks.
This can be anything from the density of the concrete and aggregate size to the chemical properties of the slab.
In 2015 the company was recognized as Contributor for Development of Excellent Capital Goods by the Minister of Trade, Industry, and Energy.
Clean process ovens may be for air atmospheres, or inert atmospheres for oxidation-sensitive materials.
A bead roller is a machine tool that makes rigid lines in sheet metal to make surfaces more rugged and durable.
Microtrench widths range from about 30 to 130 mm (1.2 to 5.1 in) with a depth of 500 mm (20 in) or less.
In 2017, SIG introduced the first individual QR codes with digital sourcing transparency, tailored for dairy product consumers.
The "tank family" comprised not only main battle tanks, but also combat engineering vehicles, air defense tank Flakpanzer Gepard, self-propelled howitzer Panzerhaubitze 2000 (PzH 2000), as well as reconnaissance and transportation vehicles.
is an Italian manufacturer of keys, key cutting machines, semi industrial and industrial key cutting machines.
These most often include major weight gain, altered hormone levels, morning nausea, and disturbed sleep patterns.
He then created a band of machines called Too Many Gods, the first one-person techno punk blues band.
He repaid the workers with one of his first acts as commissioner, securing a resolution designating the date of a labor rally as “Cesar Chavez Day.” This paved the way for labor organizer Cesar Chavez to speak at the strike rally at the Texas Capitol on November 29, 1970.
This additional boost in testosterone appears to facilitate male-male aggression, particularly during territory formation and mate guarding, and is also characterized by a lack of paternal care.
Through the action of H+ and HCO3- transporters, the intracellular pH of sperm increases from 6.94 to 7.08.
After a brief period at The Daily Telegraph, in 1988 he became the rock critic for The Sunday Times.
The medication has a low to moderate ratio of anabolic to androgenic activity, similar to that of fluoxymesterone.
To do this, the corpus spongiosum remains pliable during erection while the corpora cavernosa penis become engorged with blood.
Chemistry Methasterone, also known as 2α,17α-dimethyl-5α-dihydrotestosterone (2α,17α-dimethyl-DHT) or as 2α,17α-dimethyl-5α-androstan-17β-ol-3-one, is a synthetic androstane steroid and a 17α-alkylated derivative of DHT.
According to the American Cancer Society, prostate cancer is the most common form of cancer in males after skin cancer.
More specifically, the three hydrogen atoms on the C19 methyl group have been replaced with the deuterium isotopes.
In human male anatomy, the septum of the penis or penile septum refers to the fibrous junction (septum) between the two corpora cavernosa of the human penis.
Pindling won an unbroken string of general elections until 1992, when the PLP lost to the Free National Movement (FNM) led by Hubert Alexander Ingraham.
Sattilaro (1931–1989) was an American physician and vegetarianism activist best known for promoting macrobiotics as a cancer cure.
While this method is extremely helpful, those with increased risk of bleeding, infections, or ovarian cysts should not undergo this procedure.
However, they were banned from sports in 1999 by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and are currently on the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) list of prohibited substances.
Through rotation, a perforated ball within the T can be used to obstruct sperm flow or allow sperm flow.
See also 4-Hydroxytestosterone Clostebol (4-chlorotestosterone) Formestane (4-hydroxyandrostenedione) Norclostebol (4-chloro-19-nortestosterone) == References ==
After graduation from high school, he moved to St George's, University of London where he was trained as a physician.
An androgen ester and prodrug of trestolone, trestolone acetate, has also been developed, for use via intramuscular injection.
However, the popularization of the act and the term for it have been credited to the director Kazuhiko Matsumoto in 1998.
Research A 2023 cadaveric study on 7 cadavers characterised the fundiform ligament as a structurally heterogenous structure that is superficial to the suspensory ligament of penis.
She says that if her name is written on a scrap of papyrus when a woman is about to give birth, "I shall flee from them to the other world." Variants on the name of Abyzou appear frequently in charms in languages such as ancient Greek, Hebrew, and Romanian.
According to Shiruou, an early Shuttle Japan employee, actor, and owner of the bukkake label Milky Cat, the term crossed over into Western usage when the English language site bukkakebath.com appeared in 1998 using stolen content from Shuttle Japan.
However, as women's role in the workplace continues to be established, these risks are no longer specific to just men.
Air polymer-type A, sold under the brand name ExEm Foam, is a drug for the detection of fallopian tube patency (openness) in people with known or suspected infertility.
Side effects of norgestrel include menstrual irregularities, headaches, nausea, and breast tenderness.
He followed with four seasons at mid-level minor hockey teams, including the Flint Generals of the International Hockey League.
When their paper was banned they published off campus with the help of the director of the Comal Recreation Center and continued distributing it at a store close to the high school.
As such, it has a high ratio of anabolic to androgenic activity, similarly to other nandrolone derivatives.
Because of high doses necessary for androgenic effects, cost and inconvenience meant that quinbolone never proved to be commercially successful, and its clinical applications were fulfilled by alternative, more effective, AAS.
See also Pneumatocele Scrotal inflation References Further reading Singh, Sandeep; Thakur, Manika (2008).
They remain in place but gradually become inactive as the radioactivity decays naturally and safely over time.
Damaged Leydig cells reduce the levels of testosterone in the body, which in turn increases the levels of another hormone called LH.
Chemistry Testolactone, also known as 13-hydroxy-3-oxo-13,17-secoandrosta-1,4-dien-17-oic acid δ-lactone, is a synthetic 18-oxasteroid and a D-homo-18-oxo analogue of androstenedione (androst-4-en-3,17-dione), with a six-membered lactone ring in place of the five-membered carbocyclic D-ring.
Early adopters included players for Oklahoma University and San Diego Chargers head coach Sid Gillman, who administered Dianabol to his team starting in 1963.
See also Estradiol butyrylacetate/testosterone ketolaurate/reserpine Testosterone propionate/testosterone ketolaurate List of androgen esters § Testosterone esters == References ==
Following fusion, nuclear divisions begin, and a break in a chromosome can have drastic effects on the viability of the embryo as development proceeds.
This promoted diversity in county hiring, since before 1970 the county employed very few minorities.
Norgestimate and norelgestromin have negligible affinity for the androgen receptor (both 0% of the affinity of metribolone), while levonorgestrel has considerable affinity for the androgen receptor (45% of that of metribolone).
The Japanese adult video studio Shuttle Japan registered the term "ぶっかけ/BUKKAKE" as a trademark (No.
Griffin, William Miller, Jesse Mabry, and Grover McCollough) abducted Judge Edward Aaron from Birmingham and took him to their "lair"—a small dirt-floor house outside of Clarkesville, Alabama.
Chemistry Norgestimate, also known as 17α-ethynyl-18-methyl-19-nortestosterone 3-oxime 17β-acetate or as 17α-ethynyl-18-methylestr-4-en-17β-ol-3-one 3-oxime 17β-acetate, is a synthetic estrane steroid and a derivative of testosterone.
In 2008, he was diagnosed with prostate cancer which obligated him to undergo chemotherapy sessions every three weeks in the city of Córdoba.
Esterase enzymes break the ester bond in testosterone enantate, releasing free testosterone and enanthic acid through hydrolysis.
FAI = 100 × ( total testosterone SHBG ) {\displaystyle {\text{FAI}}=100\times \left({\frac {\text{total testosterone}}{\text{SHBG}}}\right)} The majority of testosterone in the blood does not exist as the free molecule.
In the 17th century, François Mauriceau described glands at the female urethral meatus that "pour out great quantities of saline liquor during coition, which increases the heat and enjoyment of women".
Over the years, Filey was a regular guest on several radio stations including CFRB, CKFM, and CHFI-FM and hosted his own weekly radio show, Mike Filey's Toronto, on Zoomer Radio 740.
Androstanedione is formed from androstenedione by 5α-reductase and from DHT by 17β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase.
The Cattle Health Handbook: Preventive Care, Disease Treatments & Emergency Procedures for Promoting the Well-being of Your Beef Or Dairy Herd.
According to its developers, this is "exactly the effect which should be aimed at in order to approach natural hormone production as closely as possible".
The examination may take place with the individual sitting or laying face upward, but to investigate possible varicocele and hernia it is necessary that the person is standing in front of the examiner.
Manufactured by Torrent Pharmaceuticals, and marketed as birth control under the trade name Centron.
Ethisterone, also known as ethinyltestosterone, pregneninolone, and anhydrohydroxyprogesterone and formerly sold under the brand names Proluton C and Pranone among others, is a progestin medication which was used in the treatment of gynecological disorders but is now no longer available.
It is common for teens and adults to use steroids as they stimulate and encourage muscle growth much more rapidly than natural body building.
The authors further concluded that "the 2D:4D digit ratio is neither strongly nor reliably related to aggressive or violent behavior".
Though different laws encompass usage of anabolic steroids under different jurisdictions, such underground illicit usage is discouraged by the online athletic/steroids communities as well.
Because of its dual activity as an AAS and progestogen, 11β-MNT may have greater efficacy in suppression of spermatogenesis and hence male fertility than pure AAS like testosterone.
It was established in 1997 with Roger Kirby as the founding editor, with Judd Moul becoming co-editor alongside Kirby in 2003.
7β-OH-EPIA may act as a highly potent antagonist of the G protein-coupled estrogen receptor (GPER) (affinity of <1 nM).
This reaction occurs when the egg comes in contact with non-compatible surface glycans and can impact the sperm's potential for fertilization by causing structural changes in the sperm's surface glycans.
Normally, the sphincter of the bladder contracts before ejaculation, inhibiting urination and preventing a reflux of semen into the bladder.
Testicular self-examination Testicular self-examination (TSE) is performed to detect changes and symptoms that can indicate sexually transmitted infections (STI) or a more harmful disease.
However, as men age, the gradually learn more socially accepted behavior and so their behavior transitions from crude to sophisticated.
In females, hypoandrogenism consist of loss of libido, decreased body hair growth, depression, fatigue, vaginal vasocongestion (which can result in cramps), vasomotor symptoms (e.g., hot flashes and palpitations), insomnia, headaches, osteoporosis and reduced muscle mass.
An incomplete Y chromosome such as 45X, plus a fragment of Y, can result in incomplete genital differentiation, such that the infant may not have fully developed internal or external gonads.
In prepubescent females, high radiation dose to the pelvic region can also have adverse side effects on fertility.
A man who had experienced an emission of semen would become ritually impure, until the evening came and he had washed himself in water.
António Dias Cardoso (1933 – 24 June 2006) served as the president of the Democratic Movement of Angola until he joined the MPLA in 1975.
Photo gallery Notes This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
Robert Winston, a pioneer of in-vitro fertilization, told London's Sunday Times that "male pregnancy would certainly be possible" by having an embryo implanted in a man's abdomen – with the placenta attached to an internal organ such as the bowel – and later delivered surgically.
He returned to coach Lugano to a victory in the 1999 Swiss championship, the team's first win in nine seasons.
Testosterone nicotinate had a relatively short duration, somewhere between that of testosterone propionate and testosterone enanthate.
Schapiro was educated at the Yeshivas Knesses Yisrael in Kaunas (formerly Kovno) where he was regarded as an extraordinary student (illui).
During early prophase the broken chromosome undergoes normal replication, but during metaphase the broken ends can fuse leading to the formation of a dicentric chromosome and an acentric fragment.
Air polymer-type A is infused into the uterus to allow for visual assessment of fallopian tubes during an ultrasound examination called a sonohysterosalpingography.
Prevention Since risk factors are not known and vary among individuals with hyperandrogenism, there is no sure method to prevent the condition.
Additional genes associated with spermatogenesis in men and reduced fertility upon Y chromosome deletions include RBM, DAZ, SPGY, and TSPY.
Early life Tanay was born in Wilno, Poland on March 5, 1928, but the family soon moved to Miechów, a small community just north of Kraków.
They include mostly antidepressant and antipsychotic medication, and the patients experiencing that tend to quit them Autonomic nervous system malfunction Prostatectomy - surgical removal of the prostate.
However, several clinical studies have concluded that bolandiol does not alter strength, body composition, or exercise performance.
Bolandiol is on the World Anti-Doping Agency's list of prohibited substances, and is therefore banned from use in most major sports.
Hirshleifer was well known for his work on uncertainty and information in economics, the economic analysis of conflict, and bioeconomics.
The drug was the subject of a scathing and highly critical article by The Washington Post in November 2006.
In koalas, the foreskin contains naturally occurring bacteria that play an important role in fertilization.
A length of connected postage stamps connected by perforations that allow easy tearing are secured loosely around the male's flaccid penis just prior to sleeping.
In her 2000 book Sexing the Body, Anne Fausto-Sterling describes how members of the intersex rights movement had developed a "phall-o-meter".
Ethisterone was discovered in 1938 and was introduced for medical use in Germany in 1939 and in the United States in 1945.
A wet dream, sex dream or sleep orgasm is a spontaneous occurrence of sexual arousal during sleep that includes ejaculation (nocturnal emission) and orgasm for a male, and vaginal lubrication and/or orgasm for a female.
Clostebol propionate (brand name Yonchlon), also known as 4-chlorotestosterone 17β-propionate or as 4-chloroandrost-4-en-17β-ol-3-one 17β-propionate, is a synthetic, injected anabolic-androgenic steroid (AAS) and a derivative of testosterone.
Its serosal covering, the tunica vaginalis, is an extension of the peritoneum that passes through the transversalis fascia.
Owing to the "chelate effect", cyclic ketals are more stubborn to remove than the dimethyl acetals, which means more forceful conditions that can lead to formation of impurities.
Limón's most well-known work is The Moor's Pavane (1949), based on Shakespeare's Othello, which won a major award.
NR5A1 regulates the Müllerian inhibitory substance by binding to a conserved upstream regulatory element and directly participates in the process of mammalian sex determination through Müllerian duct regression.
See also 5-Androstenedione Bolandiol (19-nor-4-androstenediol) Bolandione (19-nor-4-androstenedione) Bolenol (17α-ethyl-19-nor-5-androstenol) Chlorodehydromethylandrostenediol Chloromethylandrostenediol Methandriol (17α-methyl-5-androstenediol) == References ==
See also Nan Fung Group The Mills, Hong Kong References External links Profile at CUHK (in Chinese) Biodata at Forbes
Additional images References External links perineum at The Anatomy Lesson by Wesley Norman (Georgetown University) (maleugtrianglesection) Diagram (flash) at rnceus.com
Aelred of Rievaulx: “A Certain Wonderful Miracle,” in Aelred of Rievaulx, "Lives of the Northern Saints," trans.
Analogously to the case of nandrolone and 5α-dihydronandrolone, 5α-dihydronorethandrolone, the 5α-reduced metabolite of norethandrolone, shows diminished affinity for the androgen receptor relative to norethandrolone.
In urologic pathology, atypical small acinar proliferation, is a collection of small prostatic glands, on prostate biopsy, whose significance is uncertain and cannot be determined to be benign or malignant.
After his release in 1974, he returned to Angola where he wrote many books about his time in prison during the colonial era.
Spermatogonia are the most impacted by radiotherapy because they are more radiosensitive than other types of cells such as spermatozoa.
It is the remnant of a pouch of peritoneum which is pulled into the scrotum by the testis as it descends out of the abdominal cavity during foetal development.
A shallow groove, which marks their junction on the upper surface lodges the deep dorsal vein of the penis, which is flanked by a pair of cavernosal veins of the penis, while a deeper and wider groove between them on the surface below contains the corpus spongiosum.
Quinbolone (INNTooltip International Nonproprietary Name, USANTooltip United States Adopted Name), sold under the brand names Anabolicum and Anabolvis, is an androgen and anabolic steroid (AAS) which was previously marketed in Italy.
His family was poor and he left school at the age of 12 to serve as an apprentice to a silk merchant.
In 1999, he was awarded the Gairdner Foundation Wightman Award "in recognition of his outstanding contributions to Canadian medicine and medical science as a leader of the Canadian academic medical community".
The secretion is a clear fluid rich in mucoproteins that help to lubricate the distal urethra and neutralize any acidic urine residue that remains in the urethra.
After passing the US medical licensing exams, he established a successful practice as an endocrinologist, earning the respect of the Jewish community for treating patients in accordance with Jewish law (Halakha).
Ductuli aberrantes are two long narrow tubes, the ductulus aberrans inferior and the ductulus aberrans superior.
In the lower part, near the outlet of the urinary passage, this membrane is pierced by large ducts, or lacunae, through which pituito-serous matter occasionally discharges in considerable quantities.
A voice change or voice mutation, sometimes referred to as a voice break or voice crack, commonly refers to the deepening of the voice of men as they reach puberty.
During the short-lived West Indies Federation (from 1958 to 1962), Bradshaw was elected to the Federal House of Representatives and held the post of minister of finance for the West Indies Federation.
Desoxymethyltestosterone is unusual in that it is structurally a 2-ene compound, lacking the 3-keto group present in almost all commercial AAS (with ethylestrenol being a rare and notable exception).
Synonyms Synonyms for 4-dehydroepiandrosterone are: 3β-Hydroxy-4-androsten-17-one, 3β-hydroxyandrost-4-en-17-one, 3β-hydroxy-D4-androsten-17-one, 3β-hydroxyandrost-4-en-17-one, 3β-hydroxy-etioallocholan-4-en-17-one, and 4-androsten-3β-ol-17-one.
In contrast to estradiol, such a polymer is not possible with testosterone because testosterone has only one hydroxyl group and hence does not have the two hydroxyl groups necessary for linking the testosterone units together.
Hypogonadism Trenbolone acetate contributes greatly to development of muscle mass and feed efficiency; however, administration of any AAS suppresses natural testosterone production and therefore has the potential to cause hypogonadism.
It is closely related structurally to androstenedione (A4; androst-4-ene-3,17-dione), dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA; androst-5-en-3β-ol-17-one), and testosterone (androst-4-en-17β-ol-3-one), as well as to 3β-androstanediol (5α-androstane-3β,17β-diol).
This condition is characterized by an atypical placement of the urethral opening, which is situated not at the usual location on the tip of the penis but rather positioned further down on the ventral surface, between the junction of the penile shaft and the scrotum.
He is the author of many books and poetry, including Poemas de Circunstancia (1961), Panfleto (1979), Poemas da Cadeia (1979), and Economia Politica (1979).
Ratnam's book, Cries from Within, was written to explain the procedure for sex change operations in 1970.
See also Methandriol diacetate Methandriol dipropionate Methandriol propionate Bolandiol dipropionate == References ==
Society and culture Nutritional supplements A related anabolic steroid, methylclostebol, is a common additive in so-called dietary supplements, generally listed in the convoluted form 4-chloro-17α-methyl-androst-4-en-17β-ol-3-one.
Pharmacokinetics Drostanolone propionate is not active via the oral route and must be administered via intramuscular injection.
According to literature, episodes usually last several hours, though the duration may be as long as two days.
He won the silver medal in 5,000 m at the inaugural All-Africa Games in 1965, behind compatriot Kipchoge Keino.
See also After the siren kicks in Australian rules football References External links Quenton Leach's playing statistics from AFL Tables Quenton Leach at AustralianFootball.com Quenton Leach's WAFL playing statistics at WAFLFootyFacts.net
Males that have been genetically modified are able to compete for the attention of females at the same level as those that have not been modified.
Tibolone, sold under the brand name Livial among others, is a medication which is used in menopausal hormone therapy and in the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis and endometriosis.
Juhi Chaturvedi, creative director at advertising agency Bates, who wrote the screenplay based on her own idea, had stayed in Lajpat Nagar as a student at College of Arts, Delhi.
Rahnema, Crosnoe, and Kim (2015) reported that German athletes used methylclostebol as a performance enhancing drug in the 1960s and 1970s, but this has not been substantiated.
Nandrolone laurate (BANTooltip British Approved Name) (brand names Clinibolin, Fortadex, Laurabolin), or nandrolone dodecanoate, also known as 19-nortestosterone 17β-laurate, is a synthetic androgen and anabolic steroid and a nandrolone ester.
However risk within the affected group can vary very strongly with some patients vividly reporting very strong persistent effects.
Gatter was the Head of the Department of Cellular Science at St John's College, Oxford and an internationally recognized expert in haematopathology.
Though often asymptomatic, about one in four people with varicocele have negatively affected fertility.
Chemistry Boldenone undecylenate, or boldenone 17β-undec-10-enoate, is a synthetic androstane steroid and a derivative of testosterone.
The circumference of the base of the glans forms a rounded projecting border, the corona of glans penis, overhanging a deep retroglandular sulcus, behind which is the neck of the penis.
He lost his place to David Allan for the Third Test, returned for the Fourth, then was replaced by Allan again for the Fifth.
It has a very long duration of action when given via subcutaneous or intramuscular injection, as well as significantly greater potency than that of testosterone propionate.
See also List of androgens/anabolic steroids References External links 4-Estren-17α-methyl-4,17β-diol-3-one - Steraloids Best Canadian steroids
The repeat random loss of well-adapted Y chromosomes, coupled with the tendency of the Y chromosome to evolve to have more deleterious mutations rather than less for reasons described above, contributes to the species-wide degeneration of Y chromosomes through Muller's ratchet.
Khanyile became known internationally in 1996 after an appearance at the Royal Gala evening in honour of Nelson Mandela.
This is produced from estrone 3-methyl ether by protection as the ketal, Birch reduction of the aromatic group, and acid hydrolysis.
One of Karl Geis' more prominent students was two time Olympian Jimmy Wooley Psychology Geis worked as a psychologist and a developer as the positive reinforcement method of training in martial arts.
Patristic Christian Saint Augustine held that male nocturnal emissions, unlike masturbation, did not pollute the conscience of a man, because they were not voluntary carnal acts, and were therefore not to be considered a sin.
Together they had a son who died at age 19 and a daughter, Lori Moya, who followed her father into politics, serving on the Austin school board from 2006 to 2014.
See also Hypergonadotropic hypergonadism Hyperandrogenism and hyperestrogenism Hypothalamus, pituitary gland, and HPG axis GnRH and gonadotropins (FSH and LH) Hypogonadism (hypoandrogenism and hypoestrogenism) == References ==
, and it may become dilated toward its extremity; more commonly, it retains the same diameter throughout.
Cause Webbed penis can be caused by various things such as: Morbid obesity: which is known as excess fat around the genital area and abdomen, which makes the penis appear as though it is hidden.
Chemistry Desoxymethyltestosterone, also known as 3-desoxy-17α-methyl-δ2-5α-dihydrotestosterone (3-desoxy-17α-methyl-δ2-DHT) or as 17α-methyl-5α-androst-2-en-17β-ol, is a synthetic androstane steroid and a 17α-alkylated derivative of dihydrotestosterone (DHT).
It has close structural similarity to testosterone, and like methyltestosterone has a methyl group at C17α in order to increase oral bioavailability.
Emeritus Professor Sittampalam Shanmugaratnam (4 July 1928 – 6 August 2001), also known as Shan Ratnam, was a Singaporean obstetrician and gynaecologist.
Emanuel Tanay (March 5, 1928 – August 5, 2014) was a Polish-American physician, a forensic psychiatrist, and a Jewish Holocaust survivor.
Injectable forms of testosterone can cause a lung problem called pulmonary oil microembolism (POME).
SIT does not involve the release of insects modified through transgenic (genetic engineering) processes.
{•figure•} shows the grid-like device used to guide the needles into the perineal area; co-ordinates or 'map references' on this grid or template are used to pinpoint the exact positions in the prostate where the seeds are to be placed.
In prepubescent males, low doses (>1-3Gy) can cause short-term oligospermia or azoospermia, while higher doses (>2-3 Gy) can cause permanent azoospermia.
A review of Pindling's personal finances by the Commission found that he had spent eight times his reported earnings from 1977 to 1984.
A similar mechanism likely occurs in other mammals, but the diversity of zona proteins across species means that the relevant protein and receptor may differ.
Váruṇa It is possible that Uranus was originally an Indo-European god, to be identified with the Vedic Váruṇa, the supreme keeper of order who later became the god of oceans and rivers, as suggested by Georges Dumézil, following hints in Émile Durkheim, The Elementary Forms of Religious Life (1912).
Initially, his focus was on treating sexually transmitted diseases, but he gradually became involved in male sexual development issues and sexual dysfunction.
Symptoms may include frequent urination, painful urination and ejaculation, urination and ejaculation difficulties, blood in urine and/or semen, and erectile dysfunction.
Trendione (developmental code name RU-2065; nickname Trenavar), also known as estra-4,9,11-triene-3,17-dione, is an androgen prohormone as well as metabolite of the anabolic steroid trenbolone.
Due to its interest in human embryonic stem cell research, the group and associated clinic was one of five selected around the UK to receive Medical Research Council funding to elevate the IVF laboratories to 'cleanroom' levels.
Androstanolone valerate (brand name Apeton), also known as stanolone valerate or dihydrotestosterone pentanoate, as well as 5α-androstan-17β-3-one 17β-valerate, is a synthetic androgen and anabolic steroid and a dihydrotestosterone ester.
It was developed by Parke-Davis as a viable orally administered AAS with little or no liver toxicity.
Some historians and journalists have later suggested that this act was the earliest certain indication of the inevitability of the demise of the Soviet Union.
They tore her veil from her head, and were prevented only by the senior sisters from burning, flaying, and branding the young nun.
Testosterone isocaproate (BANTooltip British Approved Name; TiCa), sold under the brand names Sustanon 100, Sustanon 250, and Omnadren 250, is an androgen and anabolic steroid medication and a testosterone ester which has been used as a component of mixed testosterone ester preparations.
The organization also offers health information online through digital libraries, directories, free screening calendars, and websites such as www.checkmensfacts.com and as over the phone through Men’s Healthline.
The Centre for Human Reproductive Science also has psychology collaborations to actively pursue research enabling better understanding of patient feelings and care during fertility treatment; and issues surrounding motivation to be a donor and receipt of donor gametes.
In people with adrenal insufficiency such as in Addison's disease, there may be deficiency of DHEA and DHEA-S.
Career Two years after graduation, Jaxon created ready-to-wear designs for New York City department stores such as Henri Bendel and Bonwit Teller.
Thus, if the affected person has the sensations and involuntary muscle-contractions of an orgasm but no or very low-volume semen, ejaculatory duct obstruction is another possible underlying pathology of anejaculation.
However, there is evidence that PCD, is a life altering life shortening multi-system condition, with some people progressing to lung transplant.
Premenopausal women who receive ovarian suppression may now benefit from an aromatase inhibitor, a class of drugs that until now has been recommended only for postmenopausal women.
The penile vibratory stimulator is a plier-like device that is placed around the glans penis to stimulate it by vibration.
Diagnosis often involves blood tests for testosterone, 17-hydroxyprogesterone, and prolactin, as well as a pelvic ultrasound.
5-Androstenedione is structurally similar to 4-androstenedione, with the exception of the position of a carbon-carbon double bond.
Freedland (Cedars-Sinai Medical Center) and will be replaced by Cosimo De Nunzio (Sapienza University of Rome) from 1 January 2022.
The journal also reports on new developments being made in diagnosis, surgery, radiotherapy, drug discovery and medical management.
This review was based on earlier works (published in 2000–2004) by Shaw et al., Wilson et al., and Mahendroo et al., who studied DHT biosynthesis in tammar wallaby pouch young and mice.
It started to rise again for the subsequent generations, with 12 percent of women born in 1964-68 remaining childless.
Consequently, in commercial meat production, male pigs are either castrated shortly after birth or slaughtered before they reach sexual maturity.
Additionally, unlike most other hormonal contraceptives, DMPA's contraceptive effectiveness is not affected by enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs.
The 41st Edition of Gray's Anatomy (2015) and Traité d'Anatomie humaine do not acknowledge this structure.
Bolandiol (INN, also known as 19-nor-4-androstenediol, estr-4-ene-3β,17β-diol, or 3β-dihydronandrolone) is an anabolic-androgenic steroid (AAS) that was never marketed.
When aggression is minimal, specifically during parenting, testosterone levels should decrease to Level B (breeding baseline).
The Shug is composed of two silicon plugs with accompanying nylon tails that attach to the vas deferens wall.
The museum was housed in a small building, formerly a restaurant, that was marked with a giant wooden penis and a stone phallus standing outside on the street.
The poem abounds in rhetorical devices to add to its effect; such are the frequent employment of alliteration, of strange and harsh compounds, and the repetition of words of agitated movement and feeling (e.g.
Designer steroid It was in late 2005 that the reclassification of methasterone as AAS (as well as that of four other designer steroids) was brought to public awareness via an article published in the Washington Post.
It is also known as methylestrenolone, methylnortestosterone, normethandrolone, and normethisterone.
References External links Articles at Rockpages Obituary: The Arts Desk, 20 July 2010 Obituary: The Daily Telegraph, 21 July 2010 Paul Williams, Obituary: Music Week, 20 July 2010
Dumézil's identification of mythic elements shared by the two figures, relying to a great extent on linguistic interpretation, but not positing a common origin, was taken up by Robert Graves and others.
His mother, Betty Tenenwurzel, was both a physician and dentist and his father, Bunim Tenenwurzel, was a dentist.
Nilo, the son of the madman of the city, tries to grow up in a common way, but his mother overprotects him and raise him away from other people.
From 1970 to 1981, he was the Sir John and Lady Eaton Professor of Medicine and Chair of the Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, and Physician-in-Chief of the Toronto General Hospital.
These steroids can help build larger muscles, but can also lead to side effects such as smaller testicles, erectile dysfunction, and lower sperm count.
After fertility returned in the males, the conception of healthy offspring with normal childhood development was recorded.
Selected by Google as one of the musical bets of the year 2017, she launched, through Musile Records, her first studio album, Pra Te Contar os Meus Segredos.
Several of them were included in the Protestant Evangelisches Gesangbuch (EG) and the Catholic Gotteslob (GL) and other hymnals.
The song was nominated for Best Contemporary Christian Music Performance/Song at the 57th Annual Grammy Awards.
Towards the end is the addressee of the thanks named as "mein Herr" ("my Lord"), thanked then for the ability to say thanks.
In the most recent 2013 held at Rio de Janeiro, the Rexband had the blessing of performing at the WYD main stage – right before the Holy Father's message at the night vigil.
Eins (One or United) is an oratorio written on a commission from the Ökumenischer Kirchentag 2021 in Frankfurt, Hesse, Germany, the third ecumenical convention of lay Christians of different denominations in Germany.
The Encyclopedia of Contemporary Christian Music (2002) defines CCM as "music that appeals to self-identified fans of contemporary Christian music on account of a perceived connection to what they regard as Christianity".
He wrote a setting of the poem "Von guten Mächten" that Dietrich Bonhoeffer wrote in prison in 1944.
History The text was written by the Franciscan Helmut Schlegel, in seven stanzas and a refrain, both of four lines.
It was previously included on Chris Tomlin's 2020 album, Chris Tomlin & Friends, as a collaboration between Offor and Tomlin.
"Rain Down" is the second track on the Christian rock band Delirious?'s fifth album, World Service, released in 2002.
History "Gott gab uns Atem" was written in 1982 with text by Eckart Bücken and music by the singer-songwriter Fritz Baltruweit.
Phillips, Craig and Dean (rendered as Phillips, Craig & Dean on albums) is a contemporary Christian music trio composed of pastors Randy Phillips, Shawn Craig, and Dan Dean.
The song title was disambiguated to its first line, "Danke für diesen guten Morgen" (Thanks for this good morning).
ChristianRock.Net is an internet only Christian rock radio station based in Springfield, Missouri, United States.
The song was released to radio around early 2006 and became a number 1 hit on Christian radio by April 2006.
The album features six songs performed by the film's star Mandy Moore, along with others by Switchfoot, Rachael Lampa and many more.
The song has also been cited by Christian authors to be used for thanksgiving and giving thanks to God.
Career Known for gospel song covers, Isadora has more than 4.2 million subscribers and 452 million views on her YouTube channel.
Background On February 7, 2020, Darst released "Peace Be Still" as her debut single via Fair Trade Services with her debut album slated for release in summer 2020.
Philanthropy In late 2010 whilst on tour in the US promoting her third album Flags, Fraser, in conjunction with charity: water, ran a birthday campaign asking her fans to donate $27 in honour of her 27th birthday.
The song has short stanzas of four lines each, all giving a condition, ending in the same two lines "fällt ein Tropfen von dem Regen / der aus Wüsten Gärten macht" (then a drop falls of the rain that turns deserts to gardens).
"Call God" was written by Benjamin William Hastings, Moore, and Steven Furtick, while production was handled by Moore, Brown, and Furtick.
"Give Them Jesus" is the lead single by singer-songwriter released in October 2011, from Jaci Velasquez's studio album, Diamond.
The quartet began touring together, but Terry Jones, who was nine months pregnant with her second child, left the tour halfway through, leaving the other three members to perform as a trio.
Although it is referred to as a junior high, Greenville Junior High is now a middle school, with sixth through eighth grades.
Kee; Verity Records Contemporary gospel Album of the Year Conversations; Greg O'Quinn 'n Joyful Noyze; Greg O'Quin, James Moss, Paul D.
Five days later, she appeared with the five finalists including Ivete Sangalo and Paula Fernandes, on Multishow Award, but lost.
Music video The music video of "Amen" was published on For King & Country's YouTube channel on 5 October 2018.
It begins: "Hilf, Herr meines Lebens, dass ich nicht vergebens hier auf Erden bin" (Help, Lord of my life, that I am not on earth in vain).
On September 29, 2017, he announced that he and his wife were expecting their first child, a girl, in December 2017.
Siegfried Fietz (German: [ˈziːkfʁiːt ˈfiːts]; born 25 May 1946) is a German singer-songwriter, composer, music producer and sculptor.
Big Daddy Weave released the single "Let It Begin" on March 15, 2024, off of an upcoming studio album.
On October 2, 2010, the Brothers and Sisters of Charity at Little Portion Hermitage celebrated the opening of the new monastery church and common center.
Mullen; Seat of the Pants Music (ASCAP), Wordspring Music, Inc., Lil' Jas' Music (SESAC) Songwriter of the Year Nicole C.
Career After a visit to Korea and Europe, Lowly took up the exacting renaissance art of egg tempera painting, in which egg yolk is mixed with pigment to make paint.
Later, it was included in the German common Catholic hymnal Gotteslob as GL 456, in the section Sendung und Nachfolge (mission and following).
Publishing, Sixsteps Songs, Worship Together Music, Open Hands Music, So Essential Tunes, Lily Makes Music Worship Album of the Year Have It All – Bethel Music (producers) Chris Greely, Bobby Strand A Live Worship Experience – Casting Crowns (producer) Mark A.
The Dove Awards, an annual ceremony which rewards Christian music, was created in Memphis, Tennessee in October 1969 by the Gospel Music Association.
You've decided not to be a human being and I've decided to become one.'" An overwhelming sense of God's love began a transformation in his life.
The book was published by North American Liturgy Resources (NALR) and the contents were later purchased by the Oregon Catholic Press.
He is well known for a viral video titled "Angels in Heaven" with activist and percussionist Abby the Spoon Lady, which reached over 200 million views on Facebook and another ten million views on YouTube.
In movie This song is also used as a soundtrack for the 2000 Filipino movie Tanging Yaman (released thru Star Cinema) during the end credits.
She also sets to music the words of other authors, including those of her husband Owen Alstott, and New Zealand writer Shirley Murray.
The website plays rock music which can be streamed in multiple ways, including via a Web Browser, as an app on the App Store and Google Play, on Amazon Alexa devices, on Mac Music App or iTunes, and through other audio players.
They say genres like rap, rock, blues and R&B should not mix with Christian music and that music should never veer away from the topic of Jesus, praise, or worship.
The song, of the genre Neues Geistliches Lied, appeared in regional sections of the common German Catholic hymnal Gotteslob, in the Diocese of Limburg as GL 714.
Performance and recording In 2016, the Sixteen choir named a program of music by William Byrd and Pärt The Deer's Cry, which they performed in several venues and recorded on the CORO label.
It is a hymn of the genre Neues Geistliches Lied (NGL), appearing in the Protestant Evangelisches Gesangbuch, and in many songbooks.
The museum features exhibits of tractors and other farm-related memorabilia and holds multiple festivals a year.
The song was released on June 16, 2017, as the third single from his debut studio album, The Darker the Night / The Brighter the Morning (2017).
Midway through the performance Bieber arose from the piano and took center stage, he was accompanied by a choir singing background vocals.
The song became the second highest charting album track from So Be It, excluding singles and promotional singles.
She independently released two albums, The Crucible and Gypsy Flat Road in 2000, and 2001 respectively.
Jobe received her first Grammy nomination for Where I Find You as Best Contemporary Christian Album in 2012.
Mike Weaver served as worship leader of a Pensacola, Florida church and attended a community college in the area.
Discography Dreamin' Wide Awake (2011) Feeling At Home: Back Porch Sessions (2013) Drive (2014) The Only One (2016) Back Porch Christmas (2017) The Back Porch Sessions 2 (2020) Awards Anderson was nominated for Male Vocalist of the Year in 2011 by the Gospel Music Association.
1 (1998) "We Cannot Hide It" on the album The Mercy Project (2000) "All the Ways of God" and "You Alone" on the album For Christ Alone (2004) "Prepare a Place," featuring Michael W.
On November 2, 2006, Witt received his third Latin Grammy for Best Christian Album for his album Dios es Bueno (God is Good).
Composition CCM Magazine noted that "World on Fire" contains "tribal beats", "a multicultural choir", and "a massive chorus primed for their electric live show." The song begins with Joel and Luke Smallbone performing the majority of the song, while Hill performs the second verse.
He has collaborated with Ivan Rebroff, Clemens Bittlinger, Dieter Falk, Eberhard Weber, Petula Clark, Uwe Kröger, Eva Lind, Bill Ramsey, Edwin Hawkins, Olivia Molina and Coretta Scott King.
In 2007 the band received five GMA Dove Award nominations, including "New Artist of the Year" and two nominations for their debut album Sound of Melodies.
He also composed the official song of the Katholikentag 1998 in Mainz, "Schnee schmilzt" (Snow melts) on a text by Eckert.
Sierra was an American Christian pop trio formed by Wendi Foy Green (wife of well-known producer and sound engineer, Brian Green), Jennifer Hendrix, and Deborah Schnelle (wife of studio songwriter and multi-instrumentalist, Rex Paul Schnelle).
"Auf zu neuen Horizonten" (On to new horizons) is a Christian hymn with text by Helmut Schlegel, and music by Stephan Sahm.
"Peace Be Still" received a nomination for the GMA Dove Award Worship Recorded Song of the Year at the 2021 GMA Dove Awards.
1 hits, "Jesus, You're So Wonderful" (20 weeks, 1980–1981).,"Soldier of the Light" (23 weeks, 1981).
"Geh unter der Gnade" (Go under the mercy) is a Christian hymn in German with text and music by Manfred Siebald, written in 1987.
Translations In 1999 Eugen Eckert translated the song into German under the title "Da wohnt ein Sehnen tief in uns".
Amy Grant's Age to Age, released in 1982, topped the chart for 85 consecutive weeks, the longest for any album on the chart.
Fortuna's official site) Franciscan Friars of the Renewal Father Stan Fortuna, C.F.R., Promovideo for the World Youth Day in Sydney 2008
The Lowlys had a daughter, Temma, in 1985, who was brain-damaged and is frequently the subject of Mr.
At the time the two had left the Imperials, it was one of the most commercially successful acts in CCM.
They have been included in the Catholic hymnal Gotteslob (GL), and also in Protestant hymnals such as Evangelisches Gesangbuch (EG) and the Mennonitisches Gesangbuch (MG).
Career Kießig studied Protestant church music and jazz piano at the Hochschule für Musik und Darstellende Kunst Frankfurt am Main, on a scholarship of the Hanns-Seidel-Stiftung.
Writing and development "So Be It" was written by Davide Mutendji, Mitch Wong, Steven Furtick, and Hudson.
The text"Lobe den Herrn, meine Seele" is based on Psalm 103; the refrain recalls first verse 2, then verse 1, and the four stanzas take ideas from further verses.
"Love Lifting Me" reached the top 25 on both the Billboard Christian Airplay and Christian AC Airplay charts.
On November 8, 2007, Witt received his fourth Latin Grammy for Best Christian Album for Alegría.On October 2, 2007, Witt released Sinfonía del Alma (Symphony from the Soul), which he recorded and dedicated to his stepfather who had died a year earlier.
The 30th Annual GMA Dove Awards were held on March 24, 1999, recognizing accomplishments of musicians for the year 1998.
Daniel Smith; Brentwood Music Publications Nominees Agnus Dei; David Hamilton with Dennis, Karla Worley; Word Music Christmas Is Jesus; Mike Speck; Word Music God in Us; Don Moen, Tom Fettke, Randy Vader, Jack Hayford, Jay Rouse, Camp Kirkland; Integrity Land of the Free; Sue C.
Recipients Sources References and notes External links Dove Awards website Archived 2011-03-23 at the Wayback Machine
He studied Catholic theology and German studies at the University of Bonn and the University of Tübingen, graduating in 1991.
Each first line begins with "Herr, gib uns Mut" (Lord, give us courage) followed by for what courage is needed: courage to listen, courage to serve, courage for silence, courage to believe, and each second line expands that issue.
Written by the band's lead vocalist, Martin Smith and lead guitarist, Stuart Garrard, "Rain Down" reached number 5 on the US Hot Christian Songs chart.
"Give Thanks with a Grateful Heart" or simply Give Thanks is an American Christian worship song written by Henry Smith in 1978.
After he retired from show business, Ralf Bendix lived in Monaco and Florida and then in Switzerland, where he died on 1 September 2014 aged 90.
Andy Williams, the band's former drummer, died on July 9, 2021, at age 49 from injuries sustained in a motorcycle accident on June 27.
In 1992, the radio show was renamed the Cross Rhythms Experience, and became a syndicated show in 1993.
Music) Various Songs 1990: Handel's Young Messiah various artists (Word) "Comfort Ye" 1990: Your Love (AM-002)Tape CD(AM-002CD) Various Artists (Alleluia!
"Manchmal feiern wir mitten im Tag" (Sometimes we celebrate in the middle of the day) is a Christian hymn written in 1974 with German text by Alois Albrecht and a melody by Peter Janssens.
Background and composition "PRAY" was written by Justin Bieber, Omar Martinez and Adam Messinger and Nasri Atweh of The Messengers.
In 1958, he played a part along Fred Bertelmann in the music film Der lachende Vagabund in which he performed the hit song "Die Sonne von Andalucia".
The organization was initially the publishing arm of the Gregorian Institute of America (1941–1965); a school affiliated with the Roman Catholic Church that was initially established in Pittsburgh but operated for the majority of its history in Toledo, Ohio.
He held that position until 1962, although he had been already active as a Schlager singer for seven years.
Recently, he was distinguished as an International Recording Artist by Kawai Musical Instruments International.
If the awards had not been removed, Blackwood would have had the most male vocalist of the year awards with eight.
His works include two settings of the liturgy for Lutheran use, "Holden Evening Prayer" and "Now the Feast and Celebration", and settings of the Catholic Mass, including the Mass of Creation.
Her appearance resulted in #LuAlone entering Twitter's global trends topics, from São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro.
In Nashville, she worked with producers Paul Moak and Phillip LaRue and recorded a five-song EP, Firefly, which sold at shows and featured a handwritten cover made of a brown paper bag.
In 2013, Kießig became referent for pop music at the Evangelische Landeskirche in Hessen und Nassau.
Heath has been nominated for three Grammy Awards - Best Contemporary Christian Music Album (Leaving Eden), Best Gospel/Contemporary Music Performance ("Your Love"), and Best Contemporary Christian Music Song ("Your Love").
Afterwards, she moved to Nashville, Tennessee to pursue a solo music career, and in 2013 became an instructor at Trevecca Nazarene University.
In 2017 filmmaker Justin Johnson directed a short film title Abby the Spoon Lady which chronicles a day in the life of a musician and features Chris Rodrigues.
References General Specific External links Dove Awards website Archived 2011-03-23 at the Wayback Machine
It begins: "Manchmal feiern wir mitten im Tag ein Fest der Auferstehung" (Sometimes we celebrate in the middle of the day a feast of resurrection).
References External links Lyrics and sheet music for the song on PraiseCharts "Hymn of Heaven" (Song Story) on YouTube
Music video The music video of "Evidence (Live)" was published on February 24, 2021, on Bethel Music's YouTube channel.
Additionally she has sung duets and background vocals with such artists as Don Moen, Dion DiMucci, Lenny LeBlanc, Amy Grant, Ricky Skaggs, Paul Overstreet, Twila Paris, Steve Green, Fernando Ortega, Keith Green, Buddy Greene, Jim Cole and many others.
Pop pieces for brass ensembles, Strube, 2007 20 Pop-Stücke für Orgel, Strube, 2008 Als ob Gott selbst in uns sänge, pop arrangements for brass, band, choir and organ.
Both the solo and the group efforts were released through publishers North American Liturgy Resources (NALR), OCP, and GIA Publications.
Music videos On March 6, 2020, Elevation Worship released the live music video of "The Blessing" featuring Kari Jobe and Cody Carnes recorded at Elevation Church's Ballantyne campus on its YouTube channel.
The song is part of many hymnals, both Catholic and Protestant, and of songbooks, remaining popular in the 21st century.
Track listings Digital download "Everything and More" featuring Aaron Cole — 3:17 "Isaac" — 4:00 Music video A music video for "Isaac" was released on October 18, 2018, and was directed by Ezra Cohen.
A Good Morning America segment introduced her as "one of the fastest rising stars in Christian music".
This story of death to life became our song, "Amen." Composition "Amen" is composed in the key of A minor with a tempo of 94 beats per minute.
The song followed the release of singles "The Cross Has the Final Word" and "Hold It All." Composition "Til the End of Time" is composed in the key of B minor with a tempo of 80 beats per minute and a musical time signature of 44.
On 3 October 1998 the hymn premiered for the Thanksgiving Service for the 25th Anniversary of the Office for Church Music of the Archdiocese of Freiburg in Freiburg Minster.
As a member of the Houston, Texas-based Caedmon's Call, Webb has seen career sales approaching 1 million records, along with 10 GMA Dove Award nominations and three Dove Award wins and six No.
The first verse consists of the lyrics "Open the eyes of my heart, Lord" (sung twice, the second time without "Lord") and "I want to see You" (sung twice verbatim).
His first studio album Hills and Valleys was released digitally on June 23, and physically on July 21.
The 20th Annual GMA Dove Awards were held on April 13, 1989, recognizing accomplishments of musicians for the year 1988.
Trip Lee)" – Ty Brasel (writers) Kenneth Christian Mackey, Ty Brasel Rap/Hip Hop Album of the Year Today We Rebel – KB (producers) Benjamin Backus, Chris "Dirty Rice" Mackey, Clinton Lightfoot, David L.
Charts Release history References External links Lyrics and sheet music for the song on PraiseCharts
Big Shizz)" – Erica Campbell (writers) Warryn Campbell, Erica Campbell, LaShawn Daniels "Flaws" – Kierra Sheard, (writer) Diane Warren "Say Yes (ft.
Talbot embarked on a spiritual journey that led him through Native American religion and Buddhism and finally to Christianity.
Track listing Digital download "My Savior My God" – 4:51 Digital download (Live) "My Savior My God" – 5:04 Digital download (VeggieTales feat.
Grant followed this album with the first of her Christmas albums, which was later the basis for her holiday shows.
They come to watch me burn." For King & Country described "World on Fire" as the first in a "new season of passion and purpose" for the band.
Chapman's seventh and most recent Vocalist of the Year award in 2001 came eleven years after his first in 1990—the longest span between awards.
Louis Jesuits Dan Schutte References External links martyhaugen.net (Note: Not Marty Haugen's personal website) Marty Haugen at AllMusic Worship Times (Resource Publications) Evangelical Lutheran Worship Living Liturgy
It is also part of other hymnals and songbooks, such as the collection Durch Hohes und Tiefes of the congregation of Protestant students, and morning has broken / Pop-Chorbuch zum EG, a pop choral book for the Evangelisches Gesangbuch.
(Grant's first paid public performance was at the Will Rogers Auditorium in Fort Worth.) The concert was released on September 26, 2006.
Under the iron fist of I.C.O.N., nearly all religion in the world has been wiped out, except for small occult and mystic sects.
The ceremony was produced by the Trinity Broadcasting Network and was hosted by musician Erica Campbell and television star Sadie Robertson.
He is a lyricist for more than 250 Christian pop songs (NGL) such as "Da berühren sich Himmel und Erde", "Und meine Seele singt", "Du sei bei uns" and "Gott sei über dir".
Tate, however, never intended to tour with the band, and was included in a songwriting capacity only, sharing those duties with Webb who also played lead guitar.
At the 1999 Grammy Awards, they were nominated for Best Pop/Contemporary Gospel Album for Steady On.
Background "Living Hope" was released as the lead single from his seventh studio album of the same name on March 30, 2018.
The weekly news magazine also reported that the song had been the subject of many angry posts in "rechtskonservativen katholischen Internet-Seiten" (right-wing conservative Catholic websites).
He structured the work, based on the Magnificat in Latin, in a prologue and five scenes; he included texts by Francis of Assisi who began the praises of his Canticle of the Sun with "Laudato si'", Clare of Assisi and Pope Francis who wrote the encyclical Laudato si'.
Oosterhuis ultimately chose the less-known Socialist Party, as he viewed it as being closer to socialist ideals.
Wickham shared the story behind the song, saying: Over the past 12 months I've learned in a deeper way than ever that though happiness comes and goes in Jesus I can always have joy.
Schutte wrote the song at age 31 when he was studying theology at the Jesuit School of Theology at Berkeley.
Private life Laubach married in 1993 and legally took his wife's surname, Weißer, but uses his birth name for publications.
Its fifth single "Known" topped the Billboard Christian Airplay chart and was nominated for Top Christian Song at the 2019 Billboard Music Awards.
After his marriage in 1973, he paused his studies for three years, completing his teacher training by taking the second state examination in 1976.
"Wo ein Mensch Vertrauen gibt" (Where a person gives trust) is a Christian hymn with text by Hans-Jürgen Netz, written in 1974, with a melody by Winfried Heurich and Fritz Baltruweit.
Gaither Inspirational Album of the Year Don't Wanna Miss This – Cana's Voice (producers) Wayne Haun, Jim Hammerley, Jerard Woods Faultlines Vol.
Background Initially, "The Blessing" was released as music video on Elevation Worship's YouTube channel in early March 2020, with Kari Jobe and Cody Carnes leading the song in a worship service at Elevation Church's Ballantyne campus on March 1.
Text, theme and music The text is in four stanzas; the refrain about a longing in the group of singers opens the song, while the stanzas express prayers for specific desired situations such as peace and freedom.
Hart and Ben Glover co-wrote the song "All I've Ever Needed" by AJ Michalka from the Grace Unplugged soundtrack.
"It's not every day you read a headline like that with your name in it that calls you a history maker," he said.
The single entered the Billboard Hot 100 chart on 23 February 1974, charted for 13 weeks and reached a peak of No.
They created the band called Planetboom, composed of young musicians, songwriters and vocalists, the team lead thousands of teenagers in breakthrough praise and worship every week, they started doing Christian music since 2016 at the Planetshakers Church.
A majority of her religious songs are written in a way that emphasizes being sung to God rather than about God.
"Movin'" – Group 1 Crew Rap/Hip-Hop Album of the Year Five-Two Television – KJ-52 Now Is Not Forever – B.Reith Reiterate – GRITS The Big Picture – Da' T.R.U.T.H.
The show was held at the Grand Ole Opry House in Nashville, Tennessee, and was hosted by Gary Chapman, Steven Curtis Chapman, Twila Paris and CeCe Winans.
The live performance video for the "House Sessions" rendition was released on February 15, 2019, to YouTube.
When asked about the song, Norman said: "'Britney' is a song about what our culture says and does to young women these days.
Style "Alleluia" has been noted for its energetic, celebratory sound, drawing comparisons to the collective's 2023 single "Praise".
He worked especially for young people and realised that they needed different songs than the traditional hymns.
For example, in the song "This Time" from the album Learning to Trust, the opening section (as well as the bridge and ending tag) is from Frédéric Chopin's "Revolutionary Etude" (Op.
After Castledoor, Nate Cole and his wife Liska Cole started a duo band called Doom & Gloom and released home recordings.
The official music video for "House of the Lord" was availed by Phil Wickham on April 10, 2021, to YouTube.
Heath released the first single from the album No Turning Back entitled "No Turning Back (featuring All Sons & Daughters)" on October 10, 2014.
Number ones See also Hot Christian Songs Top Holiday Albums Official Christian & Gospel Albums Chart (UK) References External links Official website
Smith Steven Curtis Chapman Female Vocalist of the Year Winner Nichole Nordeman Nominees Joy Williams Natalie Grant Nichole Nordeman Nicole C.
The song was released through Reach Records on June 9, 2017, as the third single from his eighth studio album All Things Work Together.
Commercial performance "Amen" debuted at number 25 on the US Hot Christian Songs chart dated September 8, 2018.
From 2013 to 2015, Luke battled a life-threatening case of ulcerative colitis, pushing him near death and causing him to miss 40 of the band's live shows.
Mauldin Down From His Glory – Mike Speck Gone – Geron Davis Love Won – Kenna Turner West Mary, Did You Know?
The text has been set to music by Thomas Gabriel 1998, and was included in the German common Catholic hymnal Gotteslob as GL 452.
The song was released on July 28, 2008 as a digital single on iTunes Store, two months before the official release of Norman's album.
Strube, 2009/2014 I Like It Like That, 14 pop compositions for recorder and piano, Strube, 2011 Just Michael, pop arrangements for brass, BrassOvation!, Hille, 2011 Classic & Pop Crossover, 17 pop compositions for recorder and piano.
The song is part of the collection Kinder-Kirchen-Hits (Children's Church Hits), a songbook aimed at children in kindergarten, elementary schools, and for services for children and young people.
David Meece went on to study music at Peabody Conservatory of Music in Baltimore, where he met his wife Debbie, who played viola.
Discography Soundtrack albums: Flashdance Scarface Superman III Electric Dreams Solo albums: Moment by Moment (2008) Power to the Piano Take Your Passion External links Helen St.
Non-English-language versions French: "Chante alléluia au Seigneur" Spanish: "Canta aleluya al Señor" See also "We Shall Overcome", another hymn used as a protest song.
Live performances Smith performed the song on television for the first time on Good Morning America.
After 10 days the doctor performed an operation in which after further analysis the cancer appeared to have been cured.
Background In January 2019, Joth Hunt was diagnosed with cancer, and due to his illness he wrote the songs "Only Way" and "God Is On The Throne" victory and faith declaration songs about Hunt's situation.
History Mosaic MSC recorded its first worship album, MSC (Live from LA) on May 24, 2014 at the historic Wiltern Theater.
It is composed in the key of A flat, with a speed of 127 beats per minute and a time signature of 44.
and a way to express principles such as multiculturalism and acceptance of others different from yourself." And the Glebe Café Church, in New South Wales, Australia, states that: Café Church is a Glebe-based, non-traditional Christian faith community.
In the liner notes of God is in the House, Morgan said of this song: "The heart of GOD is for us to be completely sold out to HIM.
Composition "Hymn of Heaven" is composed in the key of E with a tempo of 71 beats per minute and a musical time signature of 44.
"Herr, du bist mein Leben" (Lord, You are my life) is a Christian hymn in German, the translation of an Italian hymn by Pierangelo Sequeri from 1977.
Urban adult contemporary gospel The Urban adult contemporary gospel format focuses primarily on current and classic Christian R&B and gospel music.
He worked with Canadian songwriter and producer Gino Vannelli for his albums Chronology and Candle In the Rain.
Morton "How I Got Over" – Vickie Winans "Justified" – Smokie Norful "Oh Happy Day" – Queen Latifah Traditional Gospel Album of the Year Almost Morning – Dorothy Norwood Gaither Vocal Band Reunited – Lee Williams and the Spiritual QC's Shout!
Text and melody Zils created the text in six stanzas of four lines each, to a popular melody from Israel.
The album Le Canto won a Dove Award in the category, Spanish Album of the Year at the 41st GMA Dove Awards.
"Love Theme from Flashdance" earned two Grammy nominations: Best Pop Instrumental Performance and Album of the Year.
Discography We've Come To Worship - 2008 Tuyo Soy - 2007 The Prize - 2005 Only Believe - 2000 Love Heals - 1998 This Christmas - 1996 U Gada No - 1993 Living Worship - 1992 Worship Collection: I Am Yours - 1992 In The Secret Place - 1991 The Maranatha!
The children open Halleluja as an African call and response, joined by all soloists and the mixed choir.
The announcement was hosted by a group of artists which included Francesca Battistelli, Jeremy Camp, Jason Crabb, Brandon Heath, Kari Jobe, Michael W.
1 on the Christian Adult Contemporary chart by a female artist, excluding holiday music, since Lauren Daigle's "You Say" in 2018.
Music videos The official music video for the song was released on September 28, 2016 and has garnered over 410 thousand views as of January 2021.
In 2016, he appeared on the BET television program Joyful Noise, contributing interviews and inspirational segments.
The ongoing (as of 6/2011) seismic studies were recommended by the California Energy Commission and are approved and funded by the California Public Utilities Commission.
(In bubble chambers, photographic exposures were made and the resulting printed photographs were then examined.) A wire chamber is a chamber with many parallel wires, arranged as a grid and put on high voltage, with the metal casing being on ground potential.
However, up till now, surgery for femoral neuropathy poses a tough challenge because there have been no cases of complete functional recovery despite the microsurgical equipment development.
Moving-filter monitors are often used in applications where loading of the filter medium with dust is an issue; this dust loading reduces the air flow over time.
Engineers can achieve more accurate predictions of thermal behavior by accounting for these different levels of variability.
The Commission for Independent Research and Information on Radioactivity (in the original French, Commission de Recherche et d'Information Indépendantes sur la Radioactivité, or CRIIRAD) is a French NGO which specializes in the analysis of radioactivity in the environment.
As of 2013, the membership consists of approximately 5,500 scientists, physicians, engineers, and other professionals.
However, France's Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission designed and donated special equipment for a dedicated dry-dock (SD-10) in Gremikha, which was used to dismantle the Alfa-class submarines that shared this design feature.
Aftermath Preminin was posthumously awarded the Order of the Red Star for his bravery in securing the reactors.
Using silicon pixel detectors as part of their inner tracking systems, these experiments are able to determine the trajectory of particles produced during the high-energy collisions that they study.
LaBr3 introduces an enhanced set of capabilities to a range of gamma spectroscopy radioisotope detection and identification systems used in the homeland security market.
For a general discussion of both civilian and military accidents, see nuclear and radiation accidents.
Missions assuage safety concerns, support other agencies, and bolster law enforcement capabilities at large public events such as presidential inaugurations and the Super Bowl.
It is important to study the at-risk population throughout their lives and observe if different patterns arise in tumours that develop with longer latency.
It's a heavily armed force, which is reflective of the anticipated capabilities of an adversary likely to attempt an assault against nuclear material-holding sites.
They did not perform metallurgical testing on the wires to ensure they were free of impurities, nor did they calculate tensile or shear stresses that the wire would be subjected to.
This novel development, termed the continuous phoswich scintillator and detector, provides a number of bits of depth-of-interaction (DOI) information, a significant improvement over the 1 to 2 bits available previously with discrete phoswich scintillators.
Since the number of charge carriers produced will vary with the intensity of incoming light photons, an electrical pattern is created that can be swiftly converted to a voltage and then a digital signal, which is interpreted by a computer to produce a digital image.
Since the methodology was proposed about two decades ago, it has been widely used for new reactor designs and existing light water reactor power uprates.
Taylor (USA), Some Nonscientific Influences on Radiation Protection Standards and Practice Health Physics 39 (December), pp 851–874, 1980 1981: sir Edward E.
Licensing Boards hear licensing matters concerning the licensing matters of nuclear power plants, in situ leach uranium mining, spent fuel storage facilities, and enforcement matters of individuals who hold an NRC-issued license.
Regulatory limits are imposed on the TEDE for occupationally exposed individuals and members of the general public.
Safety culture has been described in a variety of ways: notably, the National Academies of Science and the Association of Land Grant and Public Universities have published summaries on this topic in 2014 and 2016.
Significantly, the Soviet Union and the Ukrainian SSR—the states that were responsible for the Chernobyl disaster—both signed the treaty at the conference and quickly ratified it.
As of January 1, 2015, the service was taken over by the Authority for Nuclear Safety and Radiation Protection (ANVS).
The number of electron-hole pairs is proportional to the energy of the radiation to the semiconductor.
Accidents Emergency Classifications The NRC established a classification scale for nuclear power plant events to ensure consistency in the communications and emergency response.
Valdovinos was dismissed from his position, and Rodríguez was court-martialed on charges of treason, distributing radioactive material, and defamation.
One type, MD-55, is made up of layers of polyester substrate with active emulsion layers adhered (approximately 16 μm thick).
This song was also covered by Ron Holloway on his album, Groove Update, which features Gil Scott-Heron on vocals.
See also Pakistan and weapons of mass destruction References External links CSIS Missile Threat – Pakistan National Command Authority Act, 2010 Global Security Report FAS Report
Authorities surmised that the bolt had worked loose because of vibrations during the 1,400-kilometre (870 mi) journey, and then the capsule had fallen through the bolt hole.
Mathé operated on all five of them, performing the first successful allogeneic bone marrow transplant ever performed on unrelated human beings.
Costs In 2005, the cost of decommissioning these sites was planned at £55.8 billion, with Sellafield requiring £31.5 billion.
The donors were all French: Marcel Pabion, Albert Biron, Raymond Castanier, and Odette Draghi—mother of four young children.
Halogen compounds have superseded the organic quench gases because of their much longer life and lower operating voltages; typically 400-900 volts.
For example, in 2017, it removed all the highly enriched uranium from Ghana and repatriated it to China.
Heads Genadijus Lipunovas – 1991–1992 Povilas Vaišnys – 1992–1997 m Saulius Kutas – 1997–2006 Kazys Žilys – 2006 Gytis Maksimovas – 2006–2009 In 2012 Michail Demčenko was appointed to the position of VATESI Head.
is arguably the most widely used commercial product." Several types of gafchromic film are marketed with differing properties.
The homeowner held a firm conviction that the United States and the Soviet Union might continue to intensify their conflict, ultimately leading to a catastrophic nuclear confrontation.
When Russian president Boris Yeltsin signed a 1992 decree opening the area, Western scientists were able to gain access.
The Radiation and Nuclear Safety Authority (Finnish: Säteilyturvakeskus, Swedish: Strålsäkerhetscentralen), often abbreviated as STUK, is a government agency tasked with nuclear safety and radiation monitoring in Finland.
Richard Handl (born May 23, 1980) is a Swedish man who experimented with tritium, americium, aluminium, beryllium, thorium, radium, and uranium, with the intention to create a nuclear reaction.
Fukushima Daiichi Before And After The Meltdowns, Symposium: The Medical and Ecological Consequences of the Fukushima Nuclear Accident, The New York Academy of Medicine, New York City, NY, March 11, 2013.
The CD V-720 was produced in 4 models (1, 2, 3, and 3A), Chatham made the model 1, Landeds Fray and Clark made the model 3 (along with Victoreen Instruments), and Victoreen Instruments made all other models.
The film contains a dye which changes colour when exposed to ionising radiation, allowing the level of exposure and beam profile to be characterised.
Balakovo NPP participates in a twinning program between nuclear power stations in Europe and Russia; since 1990 it has been in partnership with Biblis Nuclear Power Plant.
ECRR is not a formal scientific advisory committee to the European Commission or to the European Parliament.
"Characterization of dual layer phoswich detector performance for small animal PET using Monte Carlo simulation".
a few blocks away from the Radium Dial Company in Ottawa, Illinois shortly after closing down the Radium Dial Company.
Biography and education Born in Abilene, Texas, Ewing attended Texas Christian University (B.S., 1968, summa cum laude) and graduate school at Stanford University (M.S., 1972; Ph.D., 1974).
NEST is composed of numerous response assets designed to counter WMD threats, respond to accidents involving U.S.
The agency is also a scientific research and education organization, researching the nature, effects and damaging effects of radiation.
After bringing their concerns to Congress, the problem was corrected not just at the original nuclear plant but at plants across the country.
For example, in the Homininae, two chromosomes fused to produce human chromosome 2; this fusion did not occur in the lineage of the other apes, and they retain these separate chromosomes.
These surface doses are included in the NRC's shallow dose equivalent, along with contributions from penetrating (gamma) radiation.
History The first hybrid pixel detectors were developed in the 1980s and '90s for high energy particle physics experiments at CERN.
On 14 February 2025, during the Russo-Ukrainian war, a Russian "Geran-2" drone attack significantly damaged the NSC.
Reactor data The Balakovo Nuclear Power Plant has four operating units: In 2018 Rosatom announced it had developed a thermal annealing technique for reactor pressure vessels which ameliorates radiation damage and extends service life by between 15 and 30 years.
In 2001 the publication cycle was regularised and reports are now published bi-annually under the banner "Journal of the ICRU".
In later years, he focused his research on the biological effects of repeated exposure to low doses of radiation.
This study is cited as evidence for hormesis, but a single study all by itself cannot be regarded as definitive.
At present, however, they have not seen as widespread use as silicon and germanium detectors because of cost and challenges in the manufacturing process.
The IPEN is involved primarily in conducting research in the areas of nuclear materials and processes, nuclear reactors, applications of nuclear techniques, and nuclear safety.
The electronics will apply known factors to make this conversion, which is specific to each instrument and is determined by design and calibration.
References External links Free PDF reports are accessible from here: Nuclear Energy Agency SKB (Sweden) web site Posiva (Finland) Databank web site Archived 2014-01-26 at the Wayback Machine NAGRA (Switzerland) web site Archived 2014-02-02 at the Wayback Machine
Consequently, (some argue) in a workplace that has benefited from these improvements, many of the residual workplace accidents result from operator error — one or more operators doing a job differently from the safe way they were trained to.
The reduced charge on the electrode reduces the force on the fiber, causing it to move back toward the electrode.
In 2001, the first international teams entered, with a contingent representing the United Kingdom's Atomic Energy Authority.
Officially classified as security police, they hold law enforcement status (under section 161k of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954) while engaged in the performance of official duties.
For practical purposes, a fizzle can still have considerable explosive yield when compared to conventional weapons.
Juno Radiation Vault is a compartment inside the Juno spacecraft that houses much of the probe's electronics and computers, and is intended to offer increased protection of radiation to the contents as the spacecraft endures the radiation environment at planet Jupiter.
The reference depth of 1 cm essentially discounts alpha and beta radiation that are easily shielded by the skin, clothing, and bone surface, while taking minimal credit for any self-shielding from the more penetrating gamma rays.
The spill contaminated shallow aquifers near the river that residents drank and used to water livestock.
After returning to China, he taught at the Academy of Military Medical Sciences (AMMS) as an associate professor.
After Japan's 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster, thousands staged anti-nuclear protests around France, demanding reactors be closed.
It is clear that for all pellets (and most true of uranium dioxide) that for a given sized pellet that a limit must be set on the power density.
Material collected in other areas was stored at facilities in Maquixco, Mexico State (70 tons) and Mexicali, Baja California (115 tons).
It has been claimed that the early proponent of the model Hermann Joseph Muller intentionally ignored an early study that did not support the LNT model when he gave his 1946 Nobel Prize Lecture advocating the model.
Various malignancies may develop, most frequency basal-cell carcinoma followed by squamous-cell carcinoma.
Thousands staged anti-nuclear protests around France, on the eve of the 25th anniversary of Chernobyl and after Japan's Fukushima nuclear disaster, demanding reactors be closed.
Discrimination Hibakusha and their children were (and still are) victims of severe discrimination when it comes to prospects of marriage or work due to public ignorance about the consequences of radiation sickness, with much of the public believing it to be hereditary or even contagious.
Madani, Indira; De Ruyck, Kim; Goeminne, Hannelore; De Neve, Wilfried; Thierens, Hubert; Van Meerbeeck, Jan (September 2007).
Photomultiplier-amplified photocurrents can be electronically amplified by a high-input-impedance electronic amplifier (in the signal path subsequent to the photomultiplier), thus producing appreciable voltages even for nearly infinitesimally small photon fluxes.
However, in 2010, Pakistan abandoned this position, stating that, like India, it would only join the NPT as a recognised nuclear-weapon state.
New reactor designs One disadvantage of any new nuclear reactor technology is that safety risks may be greater initially as reactor operators have little experience with the new design.
However, despite the active tunnel entrances being demolished, the tunnels themselves were not destroyed and the tunnels that were never used in testing were not part of the public demolition.
Abstracting and indexing The journal is abstracted and indexed in: According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2023 impact factor of 1.4.
This body, initially known as the "Commission for the System of Units" (renamed in 1964 as the "Consultative Committee for Units") was responsible overseeing the development of the International System of Units (SI).
This system often consists of activated charcoal filters that remove radioactive isotopes from the air.
The blue glow of a criticality accident results from the fluorescence of the excited ions, atoms and molecules of the surrounding medium falling back to unexcited states.
Sievert served as head of the physics laboratory at Sweden's Radiumhemmet from 1924 to 1937, after which he was appointed head of the department of radiation physics at the Karolinska Institute.
However, they are known for the design and distribution of the Smiling Sun badge, popular in the 1970s, which reads: "Nuclear Power?
He argues that "the problem with new reactors and accidents is twofold: scenarios arise that are impossible to plan for in simulations; and humans make mistakes".
These articles were published in 5 British and 24 American dental magazines, Of the latter, only one; Dental Digest, is still in existence.
The pressure tube surrounding the fuel channel split because of overheating and bowing of the burning fuel assembly, and the carbon dioxide coolant leaked out of the reactor.
In museums The American History Museum of the Smithsonian has several spinthariscopes in its collections, and an article discussing them.
Public controversy Critics contend that the Diablo Canyon (Nuclear) Power Plant was built so close to a set of geological fault lines that it is "for all practical purposes" to be regarded as built "directly over" a fault.
Working level (WL) is a historical unit of concentration of radioactive decay products of radon, applied to uranium mining environment.
In popular culture In 1997, the British BBC television film Hostile Waters, co-produced with HBO and starring Rutger Hauer, Martin Sheen, and Max von Sydow, was released in the United States by Warner Bros.
References External links NKS Evaluation of Russian Marine Nuclear Reactors Bellona Foundation Article on Icebreaker Lenin Barbara Jancar-Webster (July 2001).
The prevalence of some reported symptoms is geographically or culturally dependent and does not imply "a causal relationship between symptoms and attributed exposure".
IRPA is recognized by the IAEA as a Non Governmental Organization (NGO) and is an observer on the IAEA Radiation Safety Standards Committee (RASSC).
TGs cause transcriptional repression during reactive oxygen species stress by binding to the chromatin and inhibiting the sirtuin 1 histone deacetylase from performing its function.
The start of the Cold War in the summer of 1947 affected how media covered reports of unidentified things in the sky.
Entombment is not a solution for every type of radioactive waste and is not viable for long-lived radionuclides.
A phoswich ("phosphor sandwich") is a combination of scintillators with dissimilar pulse shape characteristics optically coupled to each other and to a common PMT (or PMTs).
It started collecting a variety of biological samples from patients on 1 October 1998 and since July 2001 has been a source for ethically available tissue samples - specifically extracted nucleic acids and tissue sections - for 21 research projects in Japan, Europe and the USA.
Publications ECRR 2003: Recommendations of the European Committee on Radiation Risk: Health Effects of Ionising Radiation Exposure at Low Doses for Radiation Protection Purposes.
References External links Convention on Assistance in the Case of a Nuclear Accident or Radiological Emergency, IAEA information page.
In 2018 a worker in charge of measuring radiation after the meltdown, who was in his 50s, died from lung cancer; he had been diagnosed in 2016 and his death was attributed to his radiation exposure.
A person living 16 kilometres (10 mi) from the Three Mile Island nuclear reactor received an average of 800 BED of exposure to radiation during the 1979 Three Mile Island accident.
When viewed from the second floor mezzanine, the lobby floor appears as an optical illusion with the floor as a cone-shaped pit, with the marble pedestal at the bottom.
On January 7, 1991, The Washington Post reported that the US military had ruled out the use of nuclear or chemical weapons in the conflict.
2 as its prime radiation detector until it was replaced by the specially designed "Fixed Survey Meter", which used the same obsolete high voltage batteries as the RSM.
He was a well-known opponent of nuclear power and organized anti-nuclear activities in Europe after the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.
"Application of code scaling applicability and uncertainty methodology to the large break loss of coolant".
The capsule was found next to a road on 1 February, 74 kilometres (46 mi) south of Newman by a search crew vehicle travelling past it at 70 kilometres per hour (43 mph).
It consisted of a small screen coated with zinc sulfide affixed to the end of a tube, with a tiny amount of radium salt suspended a short distance from the screen and a lens on the other end of the tube for viewing the screen.
Michael Moyer of Scientific American stated that their claims are "critically flawed—if not deliberate mistruths", pointing out that this increase only appears when choosing these specific time periods, and there is no trend in the overall numbers for the year.
Groupe INTRA is a French emergency response organization created by the French CEA, and the French nuclear companies Areva and EDF.
While the initial failure was the simple failure of a semiconductor diode, it set in motion a series of events which led to a radiation injury.
The cause(s) for the failure might be linked to improper design, poor construction, or lack of expertise.
Michael Mariotte (1952-2016) was president and executive director of the Nuclear Information and Resource Service for 30 years.
Deamination – Hydrolysis changes a normal base to an atypical base containing a keto group in place of the original amine group.
Currently, femoral neuropathy is highly underdiagnosed and its precedent medical history is not well documented worldwide.
These signals are proportional to the energy of the radiation, which helps in identifying the radiation that was exposed to.
History In 1964, Girard Henderson had an underground home built on a 320 acres (130 ha) mountain ranch located near Ward, Colorado.
Workers and area residents showed higher rates of systemic lupus erythematosus, certain cancers, and low blood cell counts.
In 1974, the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers Union stated that the Kerr-McGee plant had not only manufactured defective fuel rods, but that it had falsified records, and put employees' safety at risk.
Beyond-design-basis events Beyond-design-basis events can reduce or eliminate the margin of safety of the structures, systems and components, possibly resulting in a catastrophic failure.
Louis Harold Gray FRS (10 November 1905 – 9 July 1965) was an English physicist who worked mainly on the effects of radiation on biological systems.
Hair loss, also known as alopecia or baldness, refers to a loss of hair from part of the head or body.
Between March and July 1962, a radiation incident in Mexico City occurred when a ten-year-old boy took home an industrial radiography source that was not contained in its proper shielding.
Commissioners, many of whom have full-time university or research centre appointments, have their expenses reimbursed, but otherwise they receive no remuneration from the ICRU.
See also Three Mile Island accident Index of radiation articles Davis–Besse Nuclear Power Station John Gofman List of civilian nuclear accidents Nuclear accidents in the United States == References ==
s {\displaystyle s} corrects for the x-ray spectra in use with a table of target/filter combinations.
The town was classified as one of the Soviet government's secret cities, officially known only as "Mailbox 200".
It is normal to fill the gap between the fuel and the cladding with helium gas to permit better thermal contact between the fuel and the cladding.
The molten mass of reactor core dripped under the reactor vessel and now is solidified in forms of stalactites, stalagmites, and lava flows; the best-known formation is the "Elephant's Foot", located under the bottom of the reactor in a Cable Corridor.
One working level refers to the concentration of short-lived decay products of radon in equilibrium with 3,700 Bq/m3 (100 pCi/L) in air.
In order to store fuel in the irradiated fuel store it must satisfy a loading curve which is dependent on initial enrichment and irradiation.
History The first large-area PILATUS detector was developed at PSI in 2003 as a project stemming from the development of pixel detectors for the CMS experiment at CERN.
As dose is averaged over the whole organ; equivalent dose is rarely suitable for evaluation of acute radiation effects or tumour dose in radiotherapy.
The door led to the shelter which had 2 large steel lined things with lead to protect against radiation.
They created the Joint Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel Management, which obligated nations to establish proper policies for the management of nuclear power plants.
The investigation also found that the AEC ignored safety recommendations after the 1957 fire which may have prevented this accident.
Today, it supports more than 130 members who operate approximately 460 civil nuclear power reactors around the world.
Nuclear accident It was intended to operate until the end of 1969, but during a startup on 21 January 1969, it suffered a loss-of-coolant accident, leading to a partial core meltdown and the radioactive contamination of the cavern, which was then sealed.
When a thermoluminescent crystal is exposed to ionizing radiation, it absorbs and traps some of the energy of the radiation in its crystal lattice.
This margin has to be considered carefully for each reactor and reactor design, to ensure that it remains within the technical specifications and limitations of the reactor.
NRC rejected the petitions in 2021 because "they fail to present an adequate basis supporting the request to discontinue use of the LNT model".
Heidi Hautala demanded in February 2013 new application for the Parliament since E.ON cancelled its participation with 34% ownership.
The total cost of the Shelter Implementation Plan, of which the New Safe Confinement is the most prominent element, is estimated to be around €2.15 billion (US$2.3 billion).
On April 1, his mother placed it in the kitchen cabinet of their home, where it remained until July 22.
It is a sensitivity analysis of different amounts of radioactive releases and an SST1 release is now generally considered not a credible accident (see below).
Evidence for carcinogenic effects of non-ionizing radiation is generally inconclusive, though there are some documented cases of radar technicians with prolonged high exposure experiencing significantly higher cancer incidence.
It is the official journal of the Society for Radiological Protection and published on their behalf by IOP Publishing.
By this time Rollins had proved that x-rays could kill experimental animals, could cause a pregnant guinea pig to abort, and that they could kill a fetus.
In 1982, the newly established company began extracting yttrium from a mineral named monazite which contains rare-earth elements and the radioactive elements thorium and uranium.
Processes are things that are ongoing, such as the erosion or subsidence of the landform where the site is located on, or near.
People in occupational contact with radioactive substances, or who may be exposed to radiation, routinely carry personal dosimeters.
Applications MGD is typically used to define limits on mammography exposures by national and international organisations such as the European Union and International Atomic Energy Agency, at <2.5 milligray (mGy) per exposure to a standard breast (4.5 cm PMMA).
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has not changed its opinion that there is no excess cancer risk from living near nuclear facilities.
It is designed such that someone with a normal mechanical ability would be able to construct it before or during a nuclear attack, using common household items.
To enable this a further dose quantity called effective dose must be used to take into account the varying sensitivity of different organs and tissues to radiation.
The liquidators who reside in Estonia (some 4,200 as reported in 2006, 3,140 as of 2011) campaigned in hope for the introduction of an Estonian law for their relief.
Equipment, facility, and operational changes A number of nuclear reactor safety system lessons emerged from the incident.
The countrate is, as mentioned above, developed from the raw detector pulses by either an analog or digital ratemeter.
See also List of books about nuclear issues Nuclear and radiation accidents References Further reading Hough, Raymond L.
In a 2006 paper, a dose of 1 Gy was delivered to the cells (at constant rate from a radioactive source) over a series of lengths of time.
As Smythe pointed out, the INES scale ends at 7; a more severe accident than Fukushima in 2011 or Chernobyl in 1986 would also be measured as INES category 7.
The density and size of any neutron absorbers is minimised while the amount of fissile material is maximised.
References External links SC Wall Piers and Basemat Connections: Numerical Investigation of Behavior and Design Investigation of stress reduction effect on structures due to basemat uplift using energy concept IAEA Nuclear Energy Series ~ Construction Technologies for Nuclear Power Plants (No.
If done improperly, the process of combining nuclear products can produce a fission reaction which, in turn, produces radiation.
Amongst the body cells, the most sensitive are spermatogonia and erythroblasts, epidermal stem cells, gastrointestinal stem cells.
20 Mishaps That Might Have Started Accidental Nuclear War A handy (if somewhat chilling) list of close calls.
He was a Founding Editor of the magazine, Elements, which is now supported by 18 earth science societies.
Internal contamination protective equipment Internal contamination protection equipment protects against the inhalation and ingestion of radioactive material.
Initially, the active-duty members of the Pakistan Armed Forces provided the security of the agency but the agency now has started hiring its own personnel.
For a radioactive waste repository, features would include the characteristics of the site, such as the type of soil or geological formation the repository is to be built on or under.
Mission WANO's mission is to maximize the safety and reliability of nuclear power plants worldwide by working together to assess, benchmark and improve performance through mutual support, exchange of information and emulation of best practice.
The evidence of pieces of graphite and reactor fuel lying around the building was ignored, and the readings of another dosimeter brought in by 04:30 were dismissed under the assumption that the new dosimeter must have been defective.
This creates a chain reaction that can cause many atoms to be displaced from their original positions.
Article 12 imposes undergoing further medical examinations at appropriate intervals, and Article 13 imposes the employer shall take any necessary remedial action on the basis of the technical findings and the medical advice.
Several workers died, and the health risks associated with radium were allegedly known, but this company continued dial painting operations until 1940.
The highest average radon concentrations in the United States are found in Iowa and in the Appalachian Mountain areas in southeastern Pennsylvania.
Nuclear tests were conducted at the site in October 2006, May 2009, February 2013, January 2016, September 2016, and September 2017.
As such they are regulated by their own domestic legislation and not subject to International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards.
Radiosensitivity is the relative susceptibility of cells, tissues, organs or organisms to the harmful effect of ionizing radiation.
To help them to do this they set up the Committee Examining Radiation Risks from Internal Emitters (CERRIE) which operated between October 2001 and October 2004.
The dose measurement quantity, personal dose equivalent Hp(d), is defined by the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) as the dose equivalent in soft tissue at an appropriate depth, d, below a specified point on the human body.
A design-basis event (DBE) is a postulated event used to establish the acceptable performance requirements of the structures, systems, and components, such that a nuclear power plant can withstand the event and not endanger the health or safety of the plant operators or the wider public.
An AECL Gammacell 220 research irradiator owned by Delhi University since 1968, but unused since 1985, was negligently sold at an auction to a scrap metal dealer in Mayapuri on 26 February 2010.
Sievert had an extensive insect collection and his specimens can be found in the Entomological Museum of Lund University in Sweden.
Since the ARE started its operation, residents from a nearby town of Papan began to complain of an unpleasant odour and smoke from the factory where they also had reported breathing difficulties as a result of the pollution.
The bunker had 4 bedrooms and 3 bathrooms and windows throughout which were meant to mimic outdoor scenes and outdoor lighting.
The Swayze's also stated that because the Atomitat home was secure against damaging weather, their home insurance rate was about 87.5% less than the rate of an above ground home.
In 2000, NIRS' affiliation with World Information Service on Energy (WISE) turned it into an international organization (NIRS/WISE).
The CD V-718 differs from the military AN/VDR-2 primarily by being painted bright "civil defense" yellow instead of olive green and being graduated in Röntgens rather than Grays.
A spodik (or spodek; Yiddish: ספּאָדיק spodik, from Polish spodek "saucer") is a tall, black fur hat worn by some Hasidic Jews, particularly by members of sects in 19th-century Congress Poland.
Exhibitions Items from the collection were included in the 2017 Treasures of Imperial Japan exhibition at the Kremlin Museums and in Kimono: Kyoto to Catwalk at London's Victoria and Albert Museum in 2020, an event cut short by the outbreak of COVID-19 in the United Kingdom.
Among the people who make button blankets, the blankets are not hung from walls except at funerals or near the graves of chiefs.
The Hawaiian song, "May Day is Lei Day in Hawaii" was composed in 1927 by Ruth and Leonard "Red" Hawk.
The success of la grande nuit du bazin lead to other branches in Bamako and Abidjan successively in 2014 and 2018.
The women mang ao was red in colour if the wearer was a man's principle wife; it was originally undecorated but started to be decorated with dragon by the 18th century.
Originating in woven wool, tartan is most strongly associated with Scotland, where it has been used for centuries in traditional clothing such as the kilt.
Another criticism is towards the profit companies are generating from these clothes since these clothes were originally donated to non-profit organizations such as Goodwill.
Evolution The Pathani suit has evolved from a traditional Pashtun dress 'Perahan tunban' or ‘partoog kameez’.
Nathan Clark's shoe company, C&J Clark, made the desert boot famous, modeled after the same round toe and style of Veldskoene.
A Kullu shawl is a type of shawl made in Kullu, India, featuring various geometrical patterns and bright colors.
Even in areas where people wear Western-style clothing during the day, the malong is commonly used as sleepwear.
Historical development The Kinsale Cloak, also known as the West Cork Cloak or Irish Cloak, evolved from cloaks which were worn throughout Europe since at least the Bronze Age.
However, historians clarify that the myth of the single sandal is traditionally connected to Jason, not Perseus, and that this passage likely reflects some confusion or blending of myths.
The Pan Tau children's television series (1969–1978) features a black lounge suit-wearing protagonist with the same name.
When mixed with palm oil, it creates a pomade that is applied to the face, hair, and body in a ritual context.
In Central and South America, local custom usually prescribes the manner of wearing the beret; there is no universal rule and older gentlemen usually wear it squared on the head, jutting forward.
Techniques There are many ways to create shibori, with techniques generally grouped into three categories: kōkechi, tied or bound resists; rōkechi, wax resists; and kyōkechi, resists where the fabric is folded and clamped between two carved wooden blocks.
The Kallawtah or kallaftah (كلوتة, kalloutah "bonnet") was a type of Turkic headgear worn during the Middle Ages in the Middle East.
Traditional business dress as an everyday style has been prevalent in middle- and upper-level corporate management (now sometimes collectively referred to as "suits"), and the professions (particularly law).
Some were also worn by incarnations of the Master; the Reborn one played by Alex Macqueen in Dominion, the war one played by Derek Jacobi in UNIT and the spy one played by Sacha Dhawan in Spyfall and Ascension of the Cybermen|The Timeless Children.
German ethnographer Erich Brauer (1895–1942) noted that in Yemen of his time, Jews were not allowed to wear clothing of any color besides blue.
Description Spodiks are to be distinguished from kolpiks, and from shtreimels, which are a similar types of fur hat worn by Hasidim.
After talks to officially adopt MultiCam broke down over costs in late 2013, the Army began experimenting with the original Scorpion pattern, creating a variant code named "Scorpion W2".
In 1330, Ibn Battuta visited the city and described its “unequalled” textiles as being exported all the way to Egypt and elsewhere.
The ceremony by which the bishop put a tunicle on a subdeacon whom he ordained began in the twelfth century, but did not become common until the fourteenth.
Later, in 1929, she opened a branch of her store in Barcelona, demonstrating her belief that Barcelona was a meaningful fashion city.
Gold overlap bangle On 24 April 1991 the princess visited an AIDS hospice for children in Toronto, Canada.
While an international image of the modern style sari may have been popularised by airline flight attendants, each region in the Indian subcontinent has developed, over the centuries, its own unique sari style.
In 2008, plus fours were featured in André Benjamin's Benjamin Bixby clothing line, which was based on clothing worn by Ivy League athletes in the 1930s.
Defendants of the practice argue that non-profit organization must sell these donations in order to acquire money necessary to fund their social projects.
History The áo nhật bình originated during the era of the Nguyễn lords in Đàng Trong and was formalized under the Nguyễn dynasty.
Although synthetic fur is less effective for keeping warm in extremely-cold climates, it can be a substitute in warmer climates (which would result in less need for products using real fur).
the Beijing Institute of Clothing Technology and Fachhochschule für Technik und Wirtschaft Berlin are examples institutions focused on the business.
Regardless of its many different forms, the basic áo tứ thân consists of: A flowing outer tunic, reaching almost to the floor.
After unification of Vietnam, the Nguyễn dynasty forced the whole country to adopt the costumes of Đàng Trong Kingdom, in which tunics and long trousers took the place of the yếm and skirt (váy đụp).
Usually, the gown or robe of these degrees will have a cord and button on the yoke in order to facilitate the tippet being secured at the back when worn.
This included the development of sophisticated methods of weaving, dyeing, and embroidery, with women in particular adopting brighter and bolder designs in their clothing; in previous eras, both men's and women's kimono had been relatively similar in appearance.
It serves as a reference for veterans, historians, readers, collectors and individuals interested in military reenactment.
In November 2005, the company opened doors to its first ever flagship store (located in Fifth Avenue).
Other persons were free to choose their own color combinations as long as they maintained the twotone design.
See also Kilim – Flat tapestry-woven carpet Ratteen – Thick, napped, twilled woolen material Notes References "drugget".
An undress code is a social norm which sets an upper limit on the amount of clothing that can or should be worn.
The rulers of the Liao dynasty adopted a clothing system which allowed the coexistence of Han and Khitan clothing.
In the Anglican Churches, the Church of Sweden, and the Lutheran Church of Finland, the mitre is still placed above the arms of bishops instead of the ecclesiastical hat.
The Collection features a number of military-themed kimono from World War II, depicting tanks, warships and aircraft.
It is often helpful to make a pattern from layers of transparent adhesive tape applied over a piece of plastic wrap, on which the natural hairline can be traced accurately.
A Gamsbart (German: ['gamsbɑːʁt], literally "chamois' beard") is a decorative plume worn on hats in Austria and Bavaria that is traditionally made from the long hair that grows along the backbone and top of the neck of an adult male chamois (German: Gämse) in winter.
The modernized form of the garment is slightly different, typically with support at the back, and is called "áo yếm" rather than "yếm", the latter term referring to the historical garment.
Use in electrical equipment For cable protection Holes in metal or another hard material will often have sharp edges.
According to Turkish Turcologist and lexicographer Hasan Eren, it means cap made of leather, fur or fabric.
References Bibliography This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
By the tenth century, the caliphal textile mills produced these robes specifically for honorific purpose.
Rebecca Daniels, where Daudy's work with refugees, experience with the pandemic and its larger sociopolitical impacts are considered in the context fo Daudy's art practice and personal life.
Tippets evolved in the fourteenth century from long sleeves and typically had one end hanging down to the knees.
A boot button hook or button hook is a metal hook on a handle with a grip, which was used to pull buttons, usually on boots or gloves, more easily through the corresponding buttonholes.
Career Her first show "Written in Water" (2009) with Grant White at the Galerie Marie Victoire Poliakoff in Paris examined the memories associated with items of clothing, inscribing vintage dresses with poems that reflected their identity.
In a 1904 discovery in Armoy, County Antirm, Ireland, late Bronze Age tools were found wrapped in a woolen brat sewn from two pieces of wool, giving evidence that cloaks were worn in Ireland as far back as 750 BC.
As many danjiri and odori festivals are held outside during the summer, tasuki also help the wearer keep cool while they work.
90,000 sets of denim overalls were issued to the Local Defence Volunteers (later the Home Guard) as their main uniform, in the weeks following their establishment in May 1940.
Shortly after his retirement, the company continued to develop under a succession of other leaders until its financial fall and closing in 1977.
for their perfect fit and exquisite, plastic beauty of line." 1910s Despite opposition from some groups, the form-fitting style proved popular.
Pope Benedict XVI restored the use of the red papal shoes, which were provided by his personal cobbler, Adriano Stefanelli of Novara.
The knot is commonly used as a button on underwear and night clothes in China, as they are more durable than harder buttons, and more comfortable to rest against.
The oddity arises from the similarity of the dudou's purpose (though not construction or appearance) with the Japanese haramaki.
It is a sash made from either cloth or cord that loops over each shoulder and crosses over the wearer's back.
Afterwards, the yarn is wound onto a wooden spindle named furfure, then unwound and threaded through the heddle loops.
In contrast to the muumuu, the holokū featured long sleeves and a floor-length unfitted dress falling from a high-necked yoke which was worn by the aliʻi as well as the common people.
Originally, indigenous Kulivi people would weave plain shawls, but following the arrival of craftspeople from Bushahr in the early 1940s, the trend of more patterned shawls came to rise.
Coast Guard The Coast Guard PTUs consist of: Shirt: Grey short-sleeve shirt with reflective Coast Guard logo with blue outline and lettering on the left chest, and COAST GUARD lettering in the same design centered on the back.
Some aluminium alloy rivets are too hard to buck and must be softened by solution treating (precipitation hardening) prior to being bucked.
A big commemorative black beret is the usual trophy in sport or bertso competitions, including Basque rural sports, the Basque portions of the Tour de France, and the Vuelta Ciclista al Pais Vasco.
Cloakmakers were a part of those known as clothing-workers, including those who made cloaks, suits and skirts.
In 1332 AD, an imperial edict stated that all officials and imperial guards who had been bestowed with zhisun were required to wear it during the imperial banquets, and those would pawn off their zhisun would be punished.
The final sloper pattern is usually made of cardboard or paperboard, without seam allowances or style details (thicker paper or cardboard allows repeated tracing and pattern development from the original sloper).
Many surviving examples of dolman were made-up from Paisley shawls which had fallen out of fashion in their original form due to the shaping of the bustle skirt—the dolmans seen as better suited.
Initially used as standard issue footwear for light cavalry regiments, especially hussars, they became widely worn by civilians as well in both equestrian pursuits and other outdoor activities.
The resulting knot in both tying methods (slip-knot method and two-loops or WhyKnot method) is ABOK #600 which is similar to knife lanyard knot but the loop part is reduced to the top center bulge on its surface.
1980s In 1985, Gernreich unveiled the lesser known pubikini, a bathing suit meant to expose pubic hair.
Small bundles of a half-dozen or fewer feathers, about an inch long, are tied into the eye using netting made from olonā vegetable fibers.
Fur farms use natural fur to create commercial fur products, and fake fur is obtained from other resources.
Collars There are various styles of collar, which is the primary indicator of the formality of a shirt.
The rise of popularity of vintage clothing has been linked to a growing demand for sustainable fashion.
It states that Hermes gave Perseus one of his shoes as he was going to cut off the head of Medusa, leaving him with only one shoe.
The Prince of Wales also presented his wife with a diamond and emerald Art Deco bracelet as a wedding present and matching emerald earrings as a gift for her 22nd birthday.
Crafting The eight most common methods of making lei are: Haku: three-ply braid incorporating additional materials.
His most prominent clients were Sophia Loren, Queen Fabiola of Belgium, Mamie Eisenhower and actress Gloria Swanson.
In Russia Malahai became part of the Russian clothing in the mid-18th century after the Bashkirs and Kalmyks introduced the headgear to the country.
Towards the eastern part of the region, phrases in Kiswahili are traditional, while in central areas phrases in both Kiswahili and Lingala are popular.
Cesare's brother, Fabrizio di Cadore was little known beyond his native place, for the Council-hall of which he is said to have painted a fine picture.
The word is of Turkish origin, and after being adopted into Hungarian, has propagated to other languages.
By the 1870s, the holokū of the aliʻi took on a more fitted waist and often a train seven or eight yards in length for the evening, and included ruffles, flounces and trimmings, while the modest loose-fitting train-less holokū continued to be widely worn by women of all classes as their daily dress.
Johnson was awkward in the saddle, and Boswell ribbed him: "You are a delicate Londoner; you are a maccaroni; you can't ride." There is indeed a kind of animal, neither male nor female, a thing of the neuter gender, lately [1770] started up among us.
This results then in a knife lanyard knot (ABOK #787) where the loop part can be sized and used as a button hole, while the knot part can be used as a button.
Some are ceremonial, or worn only for special occasions, whereas others are part of dressing in the kimono and are used in a more practical sense.
Description The garment was 20 ft × 2.5 ft (6.10 m × 0.76 m), which Nāhiʻenaʻena wore by wrapping it around her.
In the same year, industrial rock group Chemlab − whose members were close friends of Chase − had released their debut album Burn Out at the Hydrogen Bar, which includes a track called "Rivet Head".
The hunting season began around the time of the first snow in October or November and continued until early spring.
Before adding the beads, a clasp is added to the end of the string so that the beads can be easily put on.
Plate-style buckles are common on western military belts of the mid-19th century, which often feature a three-hook clasp: two hooks fitting into one end of the belt and a third into the other.
Many are used only in the Latin Church Catholic, Lutheran and Anglican churches, and there is much variation within each of those churches.
Early styles Prior to the prevalence of Baju Kurung and Baju Kebaya, it is believed that kemban was the common woman's clothing of the ancient Malay Archipelago.
Apart from the usual Sticharion (called Kutino in Syriac), Epitrachelion (called Hamnikho), Zone (called Zenoro), and Epimanikia (called Zende), a priest will wear a Cope-like vestment called a Phanyo.
While driving insects away became less and less of a fan’s purpose, the fan continued to serve as a cooling mechanism.
See also List of shoe styles References External links Media related to Boat shoes at Wikimedia Commons
The Stroganov family soon came into conflict in 1573 with the khan of Sibir whose land they encroached on.
Emperors Gia Long and Minh Mạng established regulations on colors, patterns, and materials based on rank.
There are alternate methods of adjusting a pattern, either directly on flat pattern pieces from the wearer's measurements, using a pre-draped personalized sloper, or using draping methods on a dress form with inexpensive fabrics like muslin.
Regrettably, peasants were still required to wear a facial covering that completely concealed their faces.
The collar is usually made of a different fabric from the shirt, in which case it is almost always white, and, being unattached to the shirt, can be starched to a hard cardboard-like consistency.
See also Clown Harlequin Jester Shakespearean fool Trickster References External links National Guild of Jesters (UK) Hall of Fame.
Contemporary use For a description of the tunicle, see dalmatic, the vestment with which it became identical in form, although earlier editions of the Caeremoniale Episcoporum indicated that it should have narrower sleeves.
The King James Version translates as follows: And unto Sarah he said, Behold, I have given thy brother a thousand pieces of silver: behold, he is to thee a covering of the eyes, unto all that are with thee, and with all other: thus she was reproved.
The exhibition ran from December 7, 1992, to March 21, 1993 and had more than 200 pieces, many of them donated.
With UK commercial-availability in the early 1960s, they are still available in three variations from a UK merchandiser of motorcycle accessories, including dedicated-types for small motorscooters.
A sweater (North American English) or pullover, also called a jersey or jumper (British English, Hiberno-English and Australian English), is a piece of clothing, typically with long sleeves, made of knitted or crocheted material that covers the upper part of the body.
References Further reading Housedress (muumuu), 1970s, in the Staten Island Historical Society Online Collections Database External links https://themuumuarchive.com
There are many grades of cotton thread, and the cost of a malong can also be reduced by using the lesser grades of cotton thread, or by creating a loose or coarse weave.
Don Carlos of Spain wears a black patterned doublet with full black breeches, black stockings, and flat black shoes with roses.
Dragons-with-three-claws emblems also started to be depicted on the clothing of court officials above third ranks and on the clothing of princes; these dragon robes were first documented in 694 AD during the reign of Empress Wu Zetian.
Surviving examples of resist-dyeing in China (known as jiaoxie 絞纈) date to a much earlier time period; the earliest surviving examples dating to 418 CE.
The dress was introduced by a Goan designer, Caetano Gomes, then resident in Uganda which was a British Protectorate at the time.
The initial steps involve importing materials, predominantly cotton, and occasionally silk or wool from Germany, the Netherlands, or China.
For example, the dolman, a 19th-century cape-like woman's garment with partial sleeves is often described as a mantle.
The clothes arrive in these local markets in large bales or packages and are then cut open so buyers can sort through them and pick what article they like the most.
Some Salafi women in the Arab countries of the Persian Gulf such as Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Qatar, Bahrain, Oman and UAE and parts of Iran may still continue to wear eye-veils, but even in those countries this practice is no longer widespread.
On 14 January 2006, author and knit-blogger Stephanie Pearl-McPhee, otherwise known as Yarn Harlot, challenged the knitting world to participate in the 2006 Knitting Olympics.
It is used in Tibetan religious ceremony and in traditional dances, and is offered in monasteries and in temples.
In 2016, Triple J hosts Matt Okine and Alex Dyson launched a campaign to reintroduce the legionnaire hat.
BDUs can be purchased from civilian vendors in the UCP pattern analogous to the ACU as well, but these are not authorized for wear by the U.S.
In this regard, he said "Since 2004, I have been organizing the event outside of Senegal, to introduce it to Africans in the diaspora.
When they could escape, these people often returned to their home sites, often bringing with them goods from the missions, perhaps even these phoenix buttons.
ISBN 9780857853974 Encyclopedia of Embroidery from Central Asia, the Iranian Plateau, and the Indian Subcontinent (London: Bloomsbury 2021).
In a parallel development, however, a sportier style of shirt emerged with unstarched cuffs that could be secured with simple buttons.
This Jurchen queue and shaving hairstyle was not enforced on the Han Chinese in the Jin after an initial attempt to do so which was a rebuke to Jurchen values.
King Khalid of Saudi Arabia necklace This necklace was given to Queen Elizabeth II by King Khalid of Saudi Arabia in 1979.
The garments are associated with the old aristocracy, merchants, farmers, craftsmen and professionals.
The industry is one of the topics covered by professor Pietra Rivoli in her best-selling book, The Travels of a T-Shirt in the Global Economy.
It reflects the cultural connotation of the Song dynasty that emphasizes elegance, rationality, and introspection.
Despite the uniform's retirement from daily use, it is still utilized in smaller effects as OPFOR wear for participating state soldiers.
Auction assortments (from 1988): a) Russian, standardized Origins: Nowosemolsky, Kamchatka, Yeniseysk, Yakutsk, Salekhard (Obdorsk), Pechora, Mezensky District.
"Ceremonial robes and their associated regalia have been among the most spectacular creations of the Indian people of the Northwest Coast of North America.
Standard suit-making fabric is fine combed wool, with the inclusion of cashmere in more expensive fabrics.
Each of the various galleries within the exhibit focused on a particular genre of garment form (e.g.
The union was established in 1922, when the Swedish Fur Workers' Union merged with the Swedish Hat Workers' Union.
Brooks Brothers is generally credited with first offering the "ready-to-wear" suit, a suit that was sold already manufactured and sized, ready to be tailored, while Haggar Clothing first introduced the concept of suit separates in the U.S., which are widely found in the marketplace today.
The reconstruction was made according to the example of the valavici in the village of Virovo, Demir Hisar Municipality, that is, of the type of dry-based fulling mills with a starec, and not with a loom which was probably more characteristic of this region.
Garibaldi's Redshirts Giuseppe Garibaldi (1807–1882) was an Italian folk hero, a nationalist in favor of Italian independence from Austrian domination.
The American trappers usually deliver the pelts with the skin side facing outwards because of the better protection of the hair, while in the wholesale trade white fox skins of all origins are offered with the fur side facing outwards because of the better valuation possibilities.
Overview In modern Japanese history, tasuki were used by many people as everyday practical accessories, but in ancient Japan they were an exclusive accessory used by the Shinto clergy during ceremonies.
19th and 20th century Evening styles changed dramatically during the 19th century, and evolved from the relatively simple classically inspired lines of the early decades to progressively fuller skirts and, at times, sleeves (1830s and 1840s).
In 1973, the government of Nepal issued a postage stamp showing a painting of the traditional costume of the Kathmandu Valley as part of a series of stamps of the traditional clothes worn in various regions of Nepal.
Trousers and tunics based on the Chinese pattern in 1774 were ordered by Nguyễn Phúc Khoát to replace the sarong-like traditional clothing.
The transportation and sale of mitumba is responsible for many jobs both in wealthy donor companies and in the African countries where mitumba is bought and sold.
Reception The March 2017 issue of the Military Trader Magazine stated that the book was the "definitive" volume for collectors.
Popular porcelain As a great country of porcelain and ceramics, China has been making prominent and extraordinary achievements in this field.
Some men's kimonos have a subtle pattern, and textured fabrics are more common in informal men's kimono.
Dress The áo tứ thân was the dress of peasant women, which explains why it was often made with plain fabric in dark colors, except when it was to be worn at special occasions such as festivals or weddings.
Leather Buckles were not entirely made out of leather because a frame and bar of leather would not be substantial enough to carry a prong or the full weight of the belt and anything the belt and buckle intend to support.
The group takes its name from a fictional lodge that Laurel and Hardy belonged to in the 1933 film Sons of the Desert.
Fur trading allowed Russia to purchase from Europe goods that it lacked, like lead, tin, precious metals, textiles, firearms, and sulphur.
It was used as a winter cloak or as a blanket, but was finer than the sisura which was also used for a similar purpose.
Some cruel methods of killing have made people more aware as animal rights activists work harder to protect the animals.
Occasionally, hobnailed caligae must have proved inconvenient, especially on hard surfaces; Josephus describes the killing of a caliga-shod Roman centurion who had slipped on the Temple of Jerusalem's marble floor during an attack.
Some documentary evidence suggests the practice was not consistently observed during the Joseon period; the scholar Yi Ok wrote in the 19th century that: [Joseon] reveres the color blue, so the average citizen wears blue.
Belt buckles became more popular as fashion accessories in the early 20th century, as the tops of trousers moved more toward the waist.
Earlier editions of the Caeremoniale Episcoporum made the wearing of both obligatory at a Pontifical High Mass, but the present edition speaks only of the dalmatic.
Because the skirt is assembled from blocks embroidered from by multiple women, each assembled skirt is unique.
They are generally tied in a different way than in other parts of India and are, as a rule, unstitched and very colourful.
Izarband aid in several ethnic lowers mainly support, tie and gather a bigger dress circumference, such as patiala salwar and ghagra.
In vase paintings, young men are sometimes shown wearing crepidae with straps that go halfway up the calf.
In the Turkic cultures of central Asia, they have a sharp tapering to resemble a mountain, rather than the cyndrical kalpaks of Turkey.
Other countries which produce their own Kangas write the Kanga messages/names in their main languages: in Madagascar (Malagasy Republic) where they are known as lambas, they feature ohabolana, traditional proverbs written in Malagasy; they are also produced in Zambia and Malawi.
In 1959 after the death of Unser, all Indy 500 competitors were required to wear fire-retardant clothing.
According to Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, women are not required to cover their heads or wear the abaya, provided their clothing is "decent and respectful." Although the hijab is not compulsory, it is expected to be worn in the holy cities of Mecca and Medina.
Peerage robes are worn in the United Kingdom by peers and are of two varieties for two occasions: Parliament robes, worn on ceremonial occasions in the House of Lords, and Coronation robes, worn at coronations of monarchs.
was coined by founder Matthew Adams, who studied theatrical costume design at Central School of Art.
For white tie, men's opera cloaks are frequently worn with a walking stick and top hat or opera hat.
An Agrun (also called Agron, Argon or Agon) is a traditional shawl-like garment worn by Hajong women in the Indian subcontinent, in modern-day India and Bangladesh.
History The kikoi emerged from cultural exchange between east Africans and their trading partners from nations like Somalia centuries ago.
They are a very fine gauge, done with complex colourwork and some have a short row heel, which necessitates the purl stitch.
gloves, shoes, petticoats, dresses, hats, coats, corsets, stays, stomachers) or on a particular material (e.g.
Many schools with uniform requirements allow boat shoes to be worn as they are made in part or entirely of leather.
By 2004 all remaining companies – with the exception of Levi Strauss whose case was ultimately dismissed – had settled without admitting to any wrongdoing.
Early models of a fly for men's garments, including a metal fastener, existed in the 1850's, however they frequently rusted, and would occasionally open unintentionally.
The term "Victoriana" was coined in 1918, just before a wave of interest in Victorian objects and artifacts began in the 1920s.
In the United Kingdom, tracksuits became popular due to Tommie Smith and John Carlos' black power salute during the 1968 Olympics and Bob Marley's Jamaican tracksuit.
Léon Heuzey (French pronunciation: [leɔ̃ øzɛ]; December 1, 1831 – February 8, 1922) was a noted French archaeologist and historian.
In the twelfth century it became customary for bishops to wear both a tunicle and a dalmatic as part of their pontifical vestments.
Certain mendicant orders, such as the Dominicans and Franciscans, and some other orders with hooded habits, often donned the amice over the raised hood.
Other items of traditional Caucasian dress were the beshmet, a soft inner shirt with a close-fitting collar, and the cherkeska, a collarless outer shirt with a V-shaped opening in the front with long, wide sleeves.
The prong is usually referred to as the tongue of the buckle in America, as in 'lock-tongued buckle'.
The movement has caused severe distress among the women's husbands and relatives, though most husbands endure it.
However, this took many months or even years to happen, and as nickel plated steel pins were usually used only temporarily to hold cloth in place prior to sewing, no further refinement has been considered necessary.
Worldwide, both styles are popular, with fur linings offering more thermal benefits and exterior furs serving more of a fashionable purpose.
The French North African spahi regiments also wore madder-red zouave style jackets until their disbandment in 1962.
By 1583 Philip Stubbs in his Anatomie of Abuses could decry "The vain excesse of botehosen" ...they must be wrought [embroidered] all ouer, from the gartering place vpward, with nedle worke, clogged with silk of all colors, with birds, foules, beasts, and antiques purtrayed all ouer in comlie sorte.
The designs may run into a single motif and or a combination of large and small motif alternating in some order.
The pandama (Classical Mandaic: ࡐࡀࡍࡃࡀࡌࡀ) is a mouth-veil worn by Mandaean priests while performing baptismal ceremonial rituals.
It is name is due to the presence of a slit above the thigh, from which several side panels descend to help widen the garment.
Of paramount importance is the partnership that the Council has developed since 2014 with local government units, especially in the establishment of National Child Development Centers (NCDCs).
Since its establishment, the Foundation has invested over $7 million in early learning programs and networks in Washington state.
The third set features commentary on Episode 1316 by Sonia Manzano, an interview with Caroll Spinney, behind-the-scenes footage, an excerpt about Mr.
The Stanytsia Luhanska kindergarten bombing was an event directly preceding the 2022 Russian Invasion of Ukraine.
The books remain an important part of the Norwegian cultural heritage, being considered children's classics, and some of them have been reprinted more recently.
Due to the low percentage of men in early childhood education, there is also little representation of queer men or men of colour overall in the field.
Children can interactively experience a selective number of these books as early as age four and beginning at a pre-kindergarten grade level, depending on how easily the hidden objectives can be located.
Roland Gorges found that children who had been to a forest kindergarten were above average, compared by teachers to those who had not, in all areas of skill tested.
Cast Chris Knowings as Chris Robinson Suki Lopez as Nina Blake Lively as delivery worker Amanda Seyfried as Natalie Neptune Ilana Glazer in an uncredited cameo as Mr.
ALAS was founded in 2006 by Colombian singer and UNICEF ambassador Shakira, and its Honorary President was Nobel laureate Gabriel García Márquez.
The Project for the Study of Alternative Education in South Africa (PRAESA) is a multilingual, early literacy research and development organisation, affiliated with the University of Cape Town.
One by one, each character does their imaginative interpretation of their home movies via 4-D effects.
In 1932, after Paramount Pictures moved all studio operations to California, the Astoria location was turned over to independent producers, including Walter Wanger, whose films were released through Paramount or other Hollywood film companies.
Among other teaching tools, Caroline used toy orchestra instruments which were carefully tuned to harmonize together.
Condie's last animation, La Salla, won nine awards, including ones from Winnipeg (1996), Vancouver (1996), Chicago (1997) and Jerusalem (1998).
Children are given maracas, tambourines, bells, rhythm sticks and other idiophones with which to beat out a simple rhythm while the teacher plays a song, usually on the piano.
In 1998, Adrian Mills became the CBC's new head of daytime programming, and CBC Playground was relaunched and expanded by an hour.
It implores the reader to perform tactile texture-related tasks and imagine them in context, such as patting a cottontail, feeling stubble (sandpaper), and gazing into a mirror.
Titagya Schools is a non-profit organization that promotes interactive early childhood education in Ghana's three northernmost regions: the Northern Region, Upper East Region and Upper West Region.
Teachers are also individuals with interests and passions, and sharing these with the class can provide a great opportunity to model knowledge and enthusiasm.
Life Emilie Michaelis was born in Thuringia, Kingdom of Prussia, and was a pupil of Bertha von Marenholtz-Bülow, who had herself been a student of Friedrich Fröbel.
Sesame Street Unpaved Sesame Street Unpaved features select episodes from the series' first twenty seasons.
Comparable to the way a baby babbles, this free exploration, or play, offers a critical formative opportunity for designers to freely explore the language of design.
In 2006, Baby Sensory was officially established as a company with business partners Ian and Keeley Sharland and expanded through a franchise model to reach a broader audience.
In particular, the Vulindlela Reading Club in Langa has become a model for other reading clubs in the Western Cape and beyond.
Responses from the recipient are not necessary and are usually not prompted by the teller like in the preface sequence.
Illustrations All of the books are small, thin hardback volumes with 56 pages, measuring 112 mm × 170 mm (4+3⁄8 in × 6+3⁄4 in).
Reception A Muppet Family Christmas ranked 24th out of 69 shows in the Nielsen ratings the week it aired, with a 16.1 rating and a 25 share, and was watched by around 19.3 million viewers.
See also List of schools in Mumbai List of international schools in India References External links Official website
He also held the position of Associate Dean International in the Faculty of Education and Social Work at the University of Auckland.
A theatre adaptation of the same name was made by Kait Kerrigan and Bree Lowdermilk intended for grades Pre-K through 3rd.
45 percent) Reduction of criminal activity Statistically significant outcomes at age 30: Four times more likely to have graduated from a four-year college (23 percent vs.
Motives The suicide bomber responsible was identified as 22-year-old Xu Taoran, who had "vegetative nervous function disturbances," a disorder that can cause heart and breathing problems.
Association des Scouts du Canada In the Association des Scouts du Canada Castors (Beavers in French) are aged from seven to nine.
Whereas other childhood programs started at age two, the Abecedarian Project started from infancy and continued for five years, a period longer than most other programs.
He entered the kindergarten, where 60 children between three and four years of age were having a singing lesson, and immediately began slashing and stabbing the children, leaving 34 of them wounded, six of them with their arms nearly severed, and four with fatal injuries.
Its activities are based on scientific research to reflect advancements in early childhood education.
Then, when you give the blocks to the children, sit back and watch what they do." The blocks are sufficiently mathematically structured that children’s self-directed play can lead to a variety of mathematical experience.
After six years of association with the Grammy Foundation, the Leonard Bernstein Center for Learning moved to Gettysburg College, PA.
Over winter, the buildings were very cold and had rats, so the squatters heated with gas canisters, built rooms and cleared out the old industrial machines.
The CBC became a partner in the Get Set For Life campaign, which aimed to share information on development in preschoolers, alongside non-profit parenting organization Invest in Kids and Canadian Living magazine.
In London she was associated with the British and Foreign School Society, where she opened kindergarten training department.
According to Wong's Essentials of Pediatric Nursing, "gestures precedes speech and in this way a child communicates satisfactorily".
In the 2013-14 school year, 80% of VPK programs were housed at private centers, 18% were housed at public schools, 1% were housed at family daycares, and 1% were housed at private schools.
The series is in Japanese, except for regularly included English lesson segments, which were about three minutes long.
SWI emphasizes the scientific exploration of word structure through morphology, etymology, related words, and phonology.
Organisation Siobhan Fitzpatrick is the first, and current, Chief Executive Officer for Early Years, and has held this responsibility since 1989.
In April 2012, it launched a campaign, Individual Inspection Matters, calling on the Government to retain individual registration and inspection of childminders in England.
Oscar the Grouch develops a crush on the Wicked Witch, who disguises herself as an elderly human woman and returns to Hooper's Store.
Japanese co-production Production In November 2003, the brand's master license was acquired by Asatsu-DK and We've from Sesame Workshop.
The police discovered the materials used to make the explosives in his apartment, along with words such as "'die,' 'death' and 'destroy'" written on the walls, assumingly pointed towards children and families.
Shortly thereafter, a three-way partnership formed between TAVP, WBR, and View-Master Video, with TAVP responsible for production and WBR and View-Master responsible for distribution to video and music stores, and toy stores respectively.
Wordly Wise 3000 is an American series of workbooks published by Educators Publishing Service for the teaching of spelling and vocabulary.
participation rates in 2017 were 40% for three-year-olds, 68% for four-year-olds, and 86% for five-year-olds.
Outcault authored Buster's Paint Book in 1907, featuring his character of Buster Brown, which launched a trend to use coloring books to advertise a wide variety of products, including coffee and pianos.
After a Mecha Builder shrinks (going "Mecha Tiny") or enlarges (going "Mecha Giant"), Mecha Cookie Monster's chest badge also displays the Cookie Clock, a timer that shows how much time the team has left before they return to normal size.
Likely as a response to this craze, the show began pushing Elmo to a starring role more heavily, a practice that is still done on the show today.
PRAESA's aim is to ensure all young children from diverse language, class and cultural backgrounds have appropriate opportunities to become imaginative and critical readers and writers.
Ministers See also New Brunswick Department of Education District 17 References External links Department of Education Archived 2012-05-19 at the Wayback Machine Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick - Current Members
When the yellow, red, and green cylinders are placed on top of each other, they all are the same height.
Anji Play is composed of simple tools made of natural materials such as clay pots, ropes, light bamboo ladders and other everyday objects like barrels and tires.
This is a list of notable awards won by Sesame Street, an American children's television series which has achieved worldwide recognition.
Phonemic awareness is the first step in learning to read; it refers to the ability to hear and manipulate the smallest forms of language known as phonemes.
The documentary focuses on the show's origins, its goal of teaching young children concepts like the alphabet and numbers, and controversy it faced due to its racially integrated cast.
Each broadcast included one 15-minute episode of the show, followed by PBS Kids short series, such as City Island and Jelly, Ben & Pogo, to fill the remaining time of the half-hour timeslot.
HBO Max is an expanded library of programming compared to the former HBO Now, which only carried HBO programming.
A similar but distinct concept is the visual dictionary, which is composed of a series of large, labelled images, allowing the user to find the name of a specific component of a larger object.
Three teachers from Nicolaigarden started Egalia in 2010 as a result of the success of the larger school.
The successive dimensions of each cube are such that if the cubes are stacked flush with a corner, the smallest cube may be fit squarely on the ledge of each level.
She published number of essays and monographs to advance the idea of kindergarten and Fröbelian pedagogy.She founded Froebel Museum at Eisenach.
(October 2017–2023) Make Your Magic (October 2018–February 2023) C is for Celebration As of spring 2024, the producing organization of Sesame Street Live is Round Room Live.
Original podcasts Scripted Unscripted Upcoming original programming These shows have had their original production or additional seasons commissioned by HBO Max.
The theme park is described as having implemented features to make it accessible to children with autism, and on World Autism Awareness Day in 2018 was announced to be the first theme park that is a Certified Autism Center.
In September 2013, a survey by PACEY of more than 2,000 UK childcare workers, parents and teachers found that social skills and independence were rated more highly than key academic skills as indicators of young children's readiness to start school.
Merrill wrote extensively on religious instruction and early childhood education, publishing numerous works between the 1870s and 1890s.
On August 16, 2001, Classic Media and Random House agreed to jointly purchase the assets of Golden Books Family Entertainment.
In any case, after it appeared she suffered serious difficulties with the Gestapo who placed her under intensified surveillance.
"Learned and Remembered But Rejected: Preschoolers’ Reality Judgments and Transfer from Sesame Street".
Children in the Anji Play environment interact with these objects to create their own playground govern by their own rules.
Play with Me Sesame is an American children's television series, created by Sesame Workshop and Nickelodeon for their former joint venture Noggin.
In addition to parenting classes and educator certification, RIE publishes parenting books, teaching manuals, and DVDs.
Many men who might otherwise consider entering the field, choose not to for fears of being labeled as gay, or not a “real man”.
Anderson, Ph.D., University of Massachusetts Amherst Rachel Barr, Ph.D., Georgetown University Lori A.
It is not uncommon for adult musical organizations to employ numerous rhythm players, as in Latin American music, or to distribute rhythm instruments for audience members to accompany a live performance.
It was opened as a result of the closure of the Fix-It Shop, while Maria became the superintendent of 123.
Projects and partner organisations Carole Bloch set up and ran PRAESA's Early Literacy Unit in 1998.
Maria Kiene (8 April 1889 – 28 September 1979) was a kindergarten teacher who became the head of child welfare with the German Caritas association.
In the 1980s, ELC opened a number of "nursery stores", which sold equipment such as pushchairs and cots.
It focuses on the adaptations of Sesame Street in Bangladesh (Sisimpur), Kosovo (Rruga Sesam, in Albanian; and Ulica Sezam, in Serbian), and South Africa (Takalani Sesame).
In 1993, Western Publishing acquired home video rights to the first season of the Madeline TV series and short films created by John Clark Matthews for Churchill Films; Western also commissioned Matthews to produce two new direct-to-video specials for them.
The organisation offers hands-on training as well as consultancy work in early childhood development literacy, multilingual materials development, and curriculum development.
The London Early Years Foundation (LEYF) is a British charitable organisation and social enterprise which works in the field of early childhood education.
This conflicts with the principle of parent-led co-operative education — where most parents are not fully trained teachers — resulting in parent-led ECE services like Playcentre being "marginalised".
Eventually, she is found after Tim and Annie find her on their gameboard playing with their cat, Staccato, and as a reward, they are invited to attend the Wee Sing Festival, and the singing rainbow is able to perform her special color song.
It was the first product released in the JumpStart series and, as its name suggests, it is intended to teach kindergarten students.
It provides support in the form of information and training to parents, childcare providers, employers and local authorities, as well as the development of programmes and projects to enhance the care and education provided for children.
Early Head Start programs may choose to target their services to a particular population of their community in order to meet its needs better Involvement in the child welfare system.
It is similar to the melodies of the children's songs "Sweetly Sings the Donkey" in the United States, and "Auf der Mauer, auf der Lauer", "Ich bin ein kleiner Esel" (the German-language version of "Sweetly Sings the Donkey") and "Spannenlanger Hansel" in German-speaking countries.
There were three showings of the Sesame Street 4-D Film Festival film followed by three showings of the Pirates film.
It always takes us a while to figure out how to do an issue appropriately, from a child's point of view." Puppeteer Jerry Nelson, who was one of the original performers of Snuffy, noted, "Now we delve into things like divorce that are likely to affect small children very heavily.
The books took over the role held for decades by Nordahl Rolfsen's readers in the Norwegian educational system.
For example, High/Scope conducted longitudinal research of children in programmes using three different curriculum models: The Direct Instruction model, in which teachers initiated activities using academic goals.
"Care" includes health, nutrition, and hygiene in a warm, secure, and nurturing environment, and "education" includes stimulation, socialization, guidance, participation, learning, and developmental activities.
Speaking Like Sheep Baa to the Sun, Sing to the Moon Snow Story Cast Puppeteers Pam Arciero Fran Brill – Athena the Owl (puppeteer) Leslie Carrara-Rudolph – Koko the Penguin, Sheep Kid #2 Kevin Clash – Azibo the Monster Joey Mazzarino – Bill the Bug Carmen Osbahr – Baabra Sheep Martin P.
And like most of the early kindergartens in the United States, the class was conducted in the German language.
PRAESA is involved in advocacy and consultancy work with regards to transforming and Africanising the early childhood curriculum, multilingual education, reading culture and materials development, and early literacy and biliteracy teaching and learning.
Sesame Street has a history of addressing difficult topics as part of its affective curriculum goals, including death, marriage, childbirth, and disaster.
The foundation is registered as non-profit in Poland, along with the association "Original Play Austria - play from the heart", which has existed in Austria since 2015.
Attorney General Eric Holder testified under oath in front of the House Judiciary Committee that he recused himself from the leak investigations to avoid any appearance of a conflict of interest.
When there are men in their early education settings, children are able to observe and experience positive professional relationships between men and women.
Sesame Workshop insisted the other characters must help him up, something the local producers insisted was unrealistic in modern Japanese culture.
A distinctive feature of forest kindergartens is the emphasis on play with objects that can be found in nature, rather than commercial toys.
Their programs include Educare Chicago, the Educare Learning Network, and Home Visits for Homeless Families.
But in principle, a rhythm band can be made in every age, with more difficult rhythms if the participants are older.
Parents can choose to spend their child's standard government funded nursery hours there, or pay for additional time.
A Special Sesame Street Christmas is a 1978 CBS Christmas special, made the same year as the better-known Christmas Eve on Sesame Street.
During her year at the convent she had resolved to pursue a religious life, albeit outside the convent walls.
They are usually self-employed and are inspected by Ofsted in England or Care Inspectorate Wales to ensure they are providing a safe and stimulating environment for these children.
Award Categories Best Center Best Educator Best Publication Best Innovation Footnotes External links ALAS Foundation's Website ALAS Founder Shakira's Pies Descalzos Foundation The ALAS Foundation Press Release (2006-12-12).
UCDC opening In 1994, Pitt proceeded with a $2 million renovation of the building to accommodate the UCDC which opened its doors in the facility on May 30, 1995 after having previously been located in Bellefield Hall.
The pop-up book has evolved from a seemingly simplistic idea to one of more sophistication, as well as complication.
It was noted that one teacher had remarkably more success with the program than others, and that teachers must be trained thoroughly to get best results from this method.
According to these studies, children who attend forest kindergartens experience fewer injuries due to accidents and are less likely to injure themselves in a fall.
Egner spent 25 years working on the series – consisting of collected literature as well as his own stories and illustrations – and they were published in 1950–1972.
References External links Official website I Am Big Bird: The Caroll Spinney Story at IMDb I Am Big Bird at Box Office Mojo I Am Big Bird: The Caroll Spinney Story at Rotten Tomatoes I Am Big Bird: The Caroll Spinney Story at Metacritic
Studios Ed Sullivan Theater (CBS Studio 50, 53rd Street and Broadway) A CBS soundstage that had been home to The Ed Sullivan Show, Teletape used the building during the 1980s for productions such as episodes of Kate & Allie.
The Orlando version closed on April 8, 2018, for the retheme of Shamu's Happy Harbor to a Sesame Street themed area.
The Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), established by UNICEF in 1989, protects children's inalienable rights by setting standards for multiple issues, one of which is education.
Incident At around 1:30 pm, Lee stabbed his mother and sister in their flat, Room 5274, Block 8, Un Chau Street Estate.
As with any pedagogical method, the success of SWI depends on how well it is tailored to individual learning contexts and the needs of students.
By 2009, the show had won 118 Emmys throughout its history, and was awarded the Outstanding Achievement Emmy for its 40 years on the air.
As a response to flooding on the Gulf Coast of the United States in 2005, SECA undertook a number of projects to help preschool-age children and programs in the affected areas.
At its launch, it was announced that Play with Me Sesame would continue to be produced for Noggin through 2009, but the show instead wrapped in 2007.
The institute was established in 1993 and was the only private and non-profit institution of higher learning, concentrating solely on pre-school teachers’ training in Malaysia.
This program was nominated in the 31st Annual Emmy Awards (1979) under the category of Outstanding Children's Program, losing to Christmas Eve on Sesame Street.
Flannelgraph (also called flannel board or flannelgram) is a storytelling system that uses a board covered with flannel fabric, usually resting on an easel.
Mothercare continued to expand the high street presence of ELC by opening additional stores; mainly as concessions within over one hundred stores of Mothercare.
The areas covered were cognitive functioning, academic skills, educational attainment, employment, parenthood, and social adjustment.
History During the early planning phases of Universal Studios Singapore, park officials wanted to have a Sesame Street attraction.
Another clone of the ride is located at Sesame Place San Diego and opened with the park in March 2022.
Magda Gerber worked with the pediatrician Emmi Pikler at Loczy, also known as The Pikler Institute, an orphanage located in Budapest, Hungary, and named after the street of which it was located.
Any evaluation of the Kindergarten proceeds from the basis that that it is no sort of a substitute for the family nor indeed the school, as necessary contexts for childhood...
See also Base ten block Froebel Gifts Unit block Alphabet Nursery Blocks (ABC-Blocks) == References ==
The Magic School Bus is a series of children's books about science, written by Joanna Cole and illustrated by Bruce Degen.
Abby's likeness has been adapted for a 43-foot balloon which premiered in the 2007 Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade, a full-body costume character for stage appearances and several merchandise items.
It does consider it significant to the history of education at a national level, because Schurz's school in Watertown was the first kindergarten in the U.S.
Alternative versions have similar tunes to the first verse of the 1890s folk song "Shortnin' Bread." Lyrics One version of the lyrics, published in the 2015 collection No More Monkeys, runs: Variations Alternative versions of the song change the last verse to "one fell off" or "she fell off".
Family Home Entertainment's rights to the pre-1974 Rankin/Bass Productions holiday specials and Frosty Returns (acquired by Golden Books in the Broadway Video purchase) reverted to Golden Books and Sony Wonder that same year.
They included Hollywood stars Tobey Maguire, Penélope Cruz, Helen Hunt, Jamie Lee Curtis, Jason Alexander, and Felicity Huffman and her husband William H.
References External links Flash Pattern Blocks for web and Mandalar for mobile devices (iOS/Android).
Below the picture, Marzollo involves readers with a riddle asking them to locate specific items within Wick's photograph.
In November 2016, Sesame Workshop announced an agreement with Feld Entertainment to take over producing Sesame Street Live.
Notes References External links Official website Sharpson & Cuddihy's Sharuf!'s channel on YouTube Ray Cuddihy at IMDb Clíona ní Chíosáin at IMDb John Sharpson at IMDb
This also included the interaction between the Netsilik and other life forms, such as reindeer and seals.
Performance approaches to the study of personal experience narratives Performance is a narration of experiences and life events.
Due to budget constraints, Quansah, Uppal, Bernier, and O'Brien were removed, and hosting duties were centralized in Toronto with Sullivan and Sid Bobb.
Personal narratives arise from power structures, and are therefore ideological, simultaneously producing, maintaining, and reproducing that power structure; they either support or resist the dominant meaning.
The UCDC facility houses classrooms including four infant rooms, four toddler rooms, two three-year-old preschool rooms, and two four to six-year-old preschool rooms.
"The Development of Cognitive and Academic Abilities: Growth Curves From an Early Childhood Educational Experiment," Developmental Psychology, 2001, vol.
History In 1938, the London Zoo included the first children's zoo in Europe and the Philadelphia Zoo was the first in North America to open a special zoo just for children.
She also enlisted American support to advance kindergarten system in Germany through different projects.
The exosystem: this system comprises settings which do not involve an individual but still exert an impact on their development.
Overview The agency's mission is "To Ensure Every Child Has Access To Affordable And Quality Early Childhood Development Services And Programmes", where the early childhood sector is of good quality and has good educators for each child.
Then, the pen can be scanned across the corresponding book to read it aloud, unlock activities and more.
Hooper, David, Bob, and Maria are the only humans from the regular cast to make appearances, while most of the regulars are replaced by a large, somewhat all-star cast.
Variations of the above rules may require more or less development in each of the rectangles, depending on the grade-level or maturity of the student.
Reception On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 95%, based on 88 reviews, with an average rating of 8.10/10.
It is associated with the Private College Association of Nova Scotia, National Association of Career Colleges, and the Nova Scotia Child Care Association, accredited by the Nova Scotia Department of Community Services, and registered with the Nova Scotia Department of Education.
He has appeared on The Today Show, The CBS Morning News, Twenty/Twenty, Nightline, Donahue, and The Oprah Winfrey Show.
Coloring book software often has features such as color mixing, flood filling, and paintbrush tools that allow for more accurate and detailed drawings than regular coloring books.
That was followed by five months as a "house mother" at the Heuberg Holiday and Convalescence Institution in Stuttgart and nine months as training director in the diocesan presidium for childcare in the Archdiocese of Cologne.
Veterstrikdiploma is sometimes used as a derogatory term for a diploma or degree which is deemed worthless.
Magnus and Eva have to guess but Brasse always thinks they're wrong; the purpose of this sketch is to teach children that one thing may have more than one property.
Like Sesame Street, the comic strip was largely educational, using broad humor to relate learning concepts.
In addition, Busch Gardens parks also include multiple other Sesame Street themed attractions, as part of their Sesame Street Forest of Fun/Sesame Street Safari of Fun park areas.
The priority was the establishment and development of child recreation and childcare provisions, paying particular attention to service at the local level.
Books A through C (for grades 2–4) introduce 300 words and books 1–9 (grades 4–12) 3,000 words, all with exercises.
In order to ensure the animals' health, the food is supplied by the zoo, either from vending machines or a kiosk.
On 1 January 1934 the infamous Law for the Prevention of Hereditarily Diseased Offspring (Gesetz zur Verhütung erbkranken Nachwuchses) came into force.
Joseph’s College of Early Childhood Education, and was extended to a two-year course in the year 2000.
In 2005 First Church of Christ, Scientist, was determined by the city of Pittsburgh's Historic Review Commission and the Department of City planning to be eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places.
Announced on 21 March, it began broadcasting on RTÉ2 on 30 March, aimed at children attending 1st–6th class of primary school (i.e.
While most DVD releases by Sesame Workshop focus on segments from more recent years of Sesame Street, these DVDs are aimed primarily at adult viewers who grew up watching the series in the 1970s and 1980s and even comes with a warning for adults only on the package.
After Hegemann died in 1926 it fell to Kiene to take on the leadership role in respect to childcare activities.
The promise is: I promise that I will do my best, to think about my beliefs and to be kind and helpful.
When his grandfather leaves the room, David bumps into a music box which shrinks them, and the toys come to life.
The first releases in 2019 were the Letters series on September 21 then All-Time Favorites series followed in November with a new holiday compilation.
For Sesame Street's 30th anniversary in 1999, its producers researched the reasons for the show's lower ratings.
After the attack, investigators found material to make a homemade explosive device and, written on a wall near the school, a "manifesto-style rant." It has been suggested that the attack may have been targeted at mothers.
Other invited addresses include the Reconceptualizing Early Childhood Education (RECE) Conference, the Philosophy of Education Society of Australasia (PESA) annual conference, and international policy and education forums in Europe, North America, and the Asia-Pacific region.
In addition he has published more popular pieces such as children's stories in Jack and Jill, biographies of famous psychologists in the New York Times Magazine, as well as presentations of his own work in Good Housekeeping, Parade and Psychology Today.
Beale employed a child psychologist to ensure that the toys and books were of a positive and educational value to children.
In 1976, he was admitted to Castle Peak Hospital, a mental institution, for six months, after fighting with a neighbour.
According to Donaldson, the initiative should come from the child or the opposite of the Original Play game master.
In an Impact Research study for the Summer Reading Challenge, the Reading Agency found that the Challenge contributed to stemming the 'summer holiday dip' in children's reading achievement.
In 2021, a Tigrayan offensive reached the outskirts of the Ethiopian capital, but ultimately was pushed back.
Although it is not standard, these types of interactive children's books are sometimes published with a common theme such as Christmas or life on the farm.
When 2 theme awards are completed, the Rainbow get her Bronze award, 4 themes earn the Silver award and all 6 themes plus 3 extra bits gains the Gold award.
The show's creators and producers responded by featuring these themes in interpersonal disputes between its Street characters.
In 2007, Carole Bloch formed The Little Hands Trust, together with fellow trustees and PRAESA members Neville Alexander, Ntombizanele Mahobe, Xolisa Guzula and Arabella Koopman, to motivate and nurture reading and writing among African children and their care-givers.
Including incense cedar in the planting list thus brings an element of assisted species migration into this forest restoration project.
Discussion in forestry journals therefore pertained more to questions of how and when and for which species climate-adaptive plantings and range expansions should begin.
Hence, the only study of latent risk to date has focused on mammals, which are one of the best-studied groups of organisms.
This system aims to ensure a better protection of human health and the environment during the handling of chemicals, including their transport and use.
The Office of Communications and Corporate Services - responsible for providing support for all staff across the EPA.
See also Island ecology Restoration ecology Notes References Courchamp, F., Chapuis, J., and Pascal, M.
For example, in a healthcare setting, an advance directive would allow a patient to voice what treatment options they prefer and who they would like to make decisions on their behalf should they become incompetent.
If 31,894 cars were removed from the roads for one year, it would enable a reduction close to the one achieved by Airport Carbon Accreditation's participants in Year 5.
This includes areas within four municipal districts (Volzhsky, Stavropolsky, Syzransky, Shigonsky) and two urban districts (Zhigulevsk and Togliatti).
An online course "The Worldview of Thomas Berry: The Flourishing of the Earth Community" is available through Yale/Coursera and is hosted by Mary Evelyn Tucker and John Grim of Yale University.
He was the chair of the YHA and the National Trust's southern regional committee, voluntary director of the Samaritans in Guildford (active for three decades after his retirement), a member of the Department for Transport's advisory committee and a member of the Campaign for State Education.
The total staff of the secretariat is 9 permanent staff members and additional short-term project staff.
From 1983 to 1986, he was secretary of the Common Land Forum whose recommendations were passed to the Government.
The combination of the information disclosure in court as well as the freeway collapse generated concern from then West Oakland Councilmember, Wilson Riles Jr.
In 1988, the park function was removed and transferred to the newly established "Ministry of Parks".
She was selected as the White House Scholar-in-Residence, where she worked on the Clinton Crime Bill.
A Special Area of Conservation (SAC) is defined in the European Union's Habitats Directive (92/43/EEC), also known as the Directive on the Conservation of Natural Habitats and of Wild Fauna and Flora.
Conservation welfare is a proposed discipline which would focus on establishing the commonalities between conservation and animal welfare and the formation of a foundation upon which the two disciplines can collaborate to further their respective objectives.
Two of the worldwide classification systems most commonly used today were summarized by Miklos Udvardy in 1975.
Neighborhood leakage Two conflicting studies on the idea that protecting forests only relocates deforestation.
Environmental Protection UK is a UK environmental non-governmental organisation (NGO) working to improve the quality of the local environment - specialising in the subjects of air quality, noise management and land quality.
These squares historically played a major role in the political developments of Italy in both the Italian Medieval era and the Italian Renaissance.
Malta A resolution adopted by the House of Representatives on 23 June 1988 stipulates that "no nuclear armaments shall be allowed on Maltese territory".
It can be used for on-screen planning and also acts as a link for the Marxan conservation planning software.
List of wildlife areas Wildlife management areas are divided into five regions: Region 1 Northwest Kansas: Region 2 Northeast Kansas: Region 3 Southwest Kansas: Region 4 South Central Kansas: Region 5 Southeast Kansas: See also List of Kansas state parks == References ==
It would be based on the principles of Peter Singer's utilitarianism and similarly to compassionate conservation, its focus would diverge from environmental ethics in that it concentrates on the welfare of individual animals, rather than species, ecosystems or populations.
Metropolitan River Protection Act (Georgia Code 12-5-440 et seq.) was enacted in 1973 by the Georgia General Assembly to establish a 2000-foot Corridor along the banks of the Chattahoochee River and its impoundments for the 48 miles between Buford Dam and Peachtree Creek.
Notable species include the maned wolf, ocelot, otter, crab-eating fox, tayra, giant anteater, king vulture, gray hawk, osprey, solitary tinamou, toco toucan, smith frog, urutu pit viper, rattlesnake, and black and white tegu.
It was titled, "Can We Save the Redwoods by Helping Them Move?" Two months later, a lengthy news article presented the views of a half-dozen professional forestry practitioners in Oregon and Washington state.
Issues A study suggests and defines a 'planetary boundary' for novel entities such as plastic- and chemical pollution and concluded that it has been crossed, suggesting – alongside many other studies and indicators – that more and improved regulations or related changes (e.g.
Around 40,000 drivers a month were fined for non-compliance at the start of 2023 (down from approximately 50,000 a month a year earlier), though around 10,000 drivers in total have successfully appealed their fines.
It is responsible for matters of the environment, including the protection of plants and animals and the protection against noise, air pollution or natural hazards.
The communities are invited to design and implement the project themselves; for this purpose, EthioTrees uses a participatory mapping approach during all phases of the project.
One condition that must be satisfied in order to maximise Pareto efficiency is the assignment of all costs of a decision, such as the harm resulting from a decision to pollute, to the agent making the decision, effectively removing all externalities.
In the first two years of the scheme's operation, Birmingham City Council raised £79 million from it in fees and penalties.
The department was divided into three branches: land and water management, environmental and engineering services, and environmental protection.
This brought into question the ability of the ICPR to address flooding and toxic discharges and upstream and downstream relations all in one.
Its defining geological processes commenced seventy-five million years ago, when, as a part of the southern supercontinent Gondwana, it began a northeastwards drift—lasting fifty million years—across the then unformed Indian Ocean.
During this time, Canada, Denmark and Norway were also claiming extra territories in the region, and the famous American Survey of Undiscovered Oil and Gas in the Arctic was published.
One of the reasons give was its continuity of a management plan since 2001 irrespective of the people posted there.
Lloyd described a simplified hypothetical situation based on medieval land tenure systems in Europe, where herders share common land on which they are each entitled to graze their cows.
betonicum Maytenus umbellata Oleaceae: Jasminum azoricum and Picconia azorica Plantago malato-belizii Plumbaginaceae: Limonium dendroides Rumex azoricus Rosaceae: Bencomia sphaerocarpa, Dendriopterium pulidoi, Marcetella maderensis, Prunus lusitanica subsp.
Biodiversity With vegetation growth, biodiversity in this exclosure hast strongly improved: there is more varied vegetation and wildlife.
The idea of sustainable yield forestry has shifted focus from only output, to include maintaining production capacity and maintaining the natural renewal capacity of forest vegetation.
The Commissioner for Animal Welfare in Malta enforces animal welfare laws and oversees the proper treatment of animals, ensuring compliance with national regulations.
The NWSI focuses on conservation and restoration of Puget Sound in northwest Washington State and relies on the work of local, citizen-based Marine Resources Committees (located in seven counties) to prioritize actions in recovering the health of the sound.
Between 1995 and 1998, fishing licenses increased by 68% for the Montego Bay Marine Park where 69% of fishers rely on fishing as their full-time income.
The DOE has been led by a diverse range of directors, including scientists, technocrats, and former military officers, indicating shifts in political priorities and approaches to environmental governance.
Since then, it has been an international commitment on behalf of both governments and non-government organisations to maintain the networks that hold regular revisions for the succinct categorisations that have been developed to regulate and record protected areas.
In July 2024, during the International Seabed Authority’s 29th General Assembly, Palau's President Surangel Whipps Jr., in his address entitled Upholding the Common Heritage of Humankind," emphasized the importance of safeguarding the ocean from exploitation and modern-day colonialism.
Management categories and governance types are independent and can be juxtaposed in the "IUCN Matrix", visualizing a spectrum of area-based options to conserve nature in a given region/system.
It is necessary to create public and multilateral mechanisms within the United Nations to evaluate in an independent manner and without conflict of interest the potential environmental, health, social, and economic impacts of new technologies before they are spread.
Ongoing discussion and responses PADDD was a topic of discussion at the World Parks Congress in Sydney, Australia, in November, 2014.
See also Resin identification code Japanese recycling symbols Waste hierarchy Waste management Food safe symbol Bag It (documentary) References External links Packaging Material Codes Includes lists of material codes in Germany.
Only 0.07% of the total MPA network was free from any assessed threats, while 86% of the network was impacted by damaging fishing gear.
He pointed out that the Government had underestimated the impact of tear gas towards air quality and humans.
United Kingdom Green belts were established in England in 1955 to simply prevent the physical growth of large built-up areas; to prevent neighboring cities and towns from merging.
The term only refers to resources that are renewable in nature as extracting non-renewable resources will always diminish the natural capital.
Compilations of conference papers for the Indoor Air Conferences for 1999 and 2002 were dedicated in her honor.
Refuse collection vehicles This provision is an objective emission control and a subjective control.
Such effects can particularly apply if, through overexploitation, a habitat loses its apex predator.
Without respecting and guaranteeing the rights of nature, it is not possible to guarantee human rights and achieve sustainable development.
The discovery of anthracite coal in the region in the early 19th century led to Tamaqua's rise as a coal-producing community.
A conservation headland is a strip along the edge of an agricultural field, where pesticides are sprayed only in a selective manner.
Bebbington described the volume as "a very welcome contribution to the literature" that helps chart and dissect the changes brought by international conservation organizations and the "new rules for the governance of landscape and resource use" they have introduced.
Many electrical utility companies are switching to this method because it saves them significant amounts of money when a spill occurs, because there is no need to employ vac-trucks afterwards to clean up a spill inside a catch-basin.
Author In 2023, Pan Macmillan published his book titled, Heavy Metal: How a Global Corporation Poisoned Kodaikanal.
It reports to the Federal Department of the Environment, Transport, Energy and Communications, and is based in Ittigen.
The Office of Environmental Enforcement is responsible for implementing and enforcing environmental legislation.
Environmental Foundation Limited (EFL) is a public interest litigation and environmental conservation organisation in Sri Lanka.
For regions that suffer political and economic instability, sustainable trophy hunting may be the only feasible source of sufficient income.
Purpose Traditionally the Norwegian authorities had a view that the nomadic Sámi use of land, water and natural resources did not establish any formal legal rights.
Other Green Projects Green energy The government had immediately abandoned 2600 MW coal burning projects and focused on new 3700 MW hydropower projects instead.
Implementation The Sheffield Clean Air Zone covers the entirety of the city centre within the Sheffield Inner Ring Road.
Rewilding marine and coastal ecosystems offer potential ways to mitigate climate change and sequester carbon.
Rather, they view the ultimate result of the decision to green-belt a city as one to prevent housing demand within the zone to be met with supply, thus exacerbating high housing prices and stifling competitive forces in general.
In 1989 Joan Daisey was a founding member of the International Society of Exposure Assessment (ISEA) (later renamed the International Society of Exposure Science, ISES).
See also Environmental impact assessment Environmental law Council on Environmental Quality United States Environmental Protection Agency United States Department of the Interior References Ansari, A.
Local geomorphology includes knoll seamounts, potholes formed in chalk units, and mobile sediment drifts.
The department also oversees the designation and management of Iran’s protected areas, including national parks, wildlife refuges, and natural monuments, and works to ensure sustainable development in harmony with ecological principles.
Barring a few exceptions, the target values are underpinned by an environmental risk analysis wherever possible and apply to individual substances.
An article in the News of the World encouraged his teenage interest in hiking, which he did initially in the Chiltern Hills and in Surrey.
Ham Common is a Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) within Dorset Heathlands Ramsar site, in Dorset, England.
History The concept of a Blue List was derived in 1971 by Robert Arbib from the National Audubon Society in his article, "Announcing-- The Blue List: an 'early warning' system for birds".
For example, species of Opuntia (prickly pears) have been introduced from America to Australia, and have become wild, thus rendering territories unsuitable for breeding; the same goes for European gorse (Ulex europaeus) in New Zealand.
Each regional office also implements programs on Indian Tribal lands, except those programs delegated to tribal authorities.
Career After the 2000 United States presidential election, it became obvious that the Kyoto Protocol was not going to be ratified.
Publications Thematic reports Call for Recognition of the Human Right to a Healthy Environment, co-authored with John Knox, former Special Rapporteur on human rights and environment, General Assembly, 2018, A/73/188 The Right to Breathe Clean Air, Human Rights Council, 2019, A/HRC/40/55.
Four criteria are used: the degree of representativity; the area; the degree of conservation of habitat structure and functions; restoration possibilities and a global assessment of conservation value (i.e.
It was different from previous schemes, as it brought farming and conservation into a different level of partnership.
Israel has indicated it wants to create a permanent 'buffer zone' around Gaza, where much of the agricultural land was located.
The lagoon is separated from the Mediterranean Sea by La Manga ("the sleeve"), a sandbar 22 km in length whose width ranges from 100 to 1,200 metres, with Cape Palos in its south-eastern vertex making for the lagoon's roughly triangular shape.
Pesticide standard values are applied worldwide to control pesticide pollution, since pesticides are largely applied in numerous agricultural, commercial, residential, and industrial applications.
Oversight of these priorities and of the work carried out by the land trust typically rest with a board of directors.
Recycling codes are used to identify the materials out of which the item is made, to facilitate easier recycling process.
The Blue Flag is an eco-label awarded by the internationally recognised Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE), headquartered in Copenhagen, Denmark.
Most of the district area lies along the Kilombero River valley and part of it in the Rufiji Basin and Selous Game Reserve which extends to the Udzungwa Mountains National Park.
Farmers can take odd areas or difficult-to-farm areas out of production as they integrate native plant species into farm fields as contour buffers and edge-of-field filters.
In May 2014, the airport industry's efforts to address its carbon emissions received the Highly Commended prize at the annual global International Transport Forum (ITF) Awards issued by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD).
Implementation and adherence to the Cyanide Code by the gold mining industry in Tanzania is required by various mining and environmental management acts and regulations.
United States In the United States, environmental quality is applied as a body of federal and state standards and regulations monitored by regulatory agencies.
Standards were initiated by individual companies, using private standards, such as Utz Certified (Ahold), C.A.F.E.
For example, China's polymer identification system has seven different classifications of plastic, five different symbols for post-consumer paths, and 140 identification codes.
The first detailed exploration of Earth jurisprudence in print and the introduction of the term 'Great Jurisprudence' occurred with the first publication of Wild Law by Cormac Cullinan, launched at the World Summit for Sustainable Development in Cape Town 2002.
Marxan with Zones assigns each planning unit in a study region to a particular zone in order to meet a number of ecological, social and economic objectives at a minimum total cost.
January 1, 2018, legacy Environ was included in the Water and Environment & Health divisions of Ramboll, and Environ no longer exists as a separate business entity.
All RELs are located in the NIOSH Pocket Guide to Chemical Hazards, along with other key data for 677 chemical or substance groupings.
Quasi-extinction refers to the state in which a species or population has declined to critically low numbers, making its recovery highly unlikely, even though a small number of individuals may still persist.
Environment and Climate Change Canada (ECCC; French: Environnement et Changement climatique Canada) is the department of the Government of Canada responsible for coordinating environmental policies and programs, as well as preserving and enhancing the natural environment and renewable resources.
Worldwide pesticide standard values Up till now (November 2017), less than 30% of the worldwide nations have regulated pesticide standard values in surface residential soil, about 50% of the total nations have provided pesticide standard values in drinking water and agricultural foods.
Common types of buffer zones are demilitarized zones, border zones and certain restrictive easement zones and green belts.
As a result, vehicle emission testing was initiated by Department of Motor Traffic and Central Environmental Authority.
These authors also consider any extremely valuable reference to these geodiversity elements as ex situ geoheritage, including therefore field notebooks, papers, photographs, maps, dissertations, books, etc.
These reduce the use or creation of hazardous chemicals, save water, and reduce greenhouse gas release.
In 1977, villagers were persuaded that instead of grazing on erosion-prone hills, building small dams would help agricultural output on areas currently under cultivation.
In 1998, the Act was amended to extend the corridor an additional 36 miles to the downstream limits of Fulton and Douglas Counties.
The presence of mulching also reduce the velocity of runoff and the impact of rain drops thus reducing soil erosion and runoff.
successfully captured groundbreaking footage of a female panther in the wild using high-definition camera traps, marking the first time such close footage of the elusive Florida panther had been recorded.
However, larvae can generally leave a reserve without elevated risk because of their small size and limited fishery exposure.
The Global Water Crisis and Human Rights: Water Pollution, Water Scarcity and Water-related Disasters (21 pp.), Human Rights Council, 2021, UN Doc.
Despite the restriction on trade in many countries however, the market still operates both legally and illegally.
While specific practices and interpretations of custodianship may differ among the hundreds of distinct Aboriginal Australian and Torres Strait Islander groups, they all seemingly share a close affiliation with the land and a responsibility to look after it.
Preventing Carbon Monoxide Poisoning In October 2011, the APPCOG produced Preventing Carbon Monoxide Poisoning, which compiled evidence collected across a six-month inquiry and set a national strategy to eradicate CO poisoning through preventative measures such as providing CO alarms.
Their most recent publication (2025) provides an assessment of evidence on the health effects of nano- and microplastic particles and fibres in the environment.
Furthermore, according to the American National Snow and Ice Data Centre (NSIDC), in the same period (1979-2000), the ice covered a sea surface of 6.71 million square kilometres, compared to the 4.3 square kilometres registered in 2011.
An exclosure, in an area being used extensively for grazing, is a limited area from which unwanted browsing animals, such as domestic cattle or wildlife such as deer, are excluded by fencing or other means.
It coordinates with the EPA's Office of Research and Development (ORD) on the development of new models and techniques, as well as wider issues of atmospheric research.
He led the public affairs groups and ex-workers to force the company collect 290 tonnes of mercury waste disposed in and around the factory site and send back to the United States for permanent retirement in 2003.
While this is broadly logical, there are several cases of once common species being driven to extinction such as the passenger pigeon and the Rocky Mountain locust, which numbered in the billions and trillions respectively before their demise.
The rally took place on December 28, 2025, in Moirang, beginning at Ibudhou Thangjing Moirang Laikol and concluding at the Hemam Nilamani Ngangkhalampak Sports Complex.
Regulatory efforts include identifying and categorising air pollutants, setting limits on acceptable emissions levels, and dictating necessary or appropriate mitigation technologies.
Camera traps are digital cameras equipped with infrared sensors that detect movement and heat, triggering the camera to record footage with minimal wildlife disturbance.
The WMA borders the Kilimanjaro National Park on the South-East, the Tanzania-Kenya political boundary on the north, and the Ngasurai Open Area on the west.
The regulation also requires most actors in the supply chain for the product (importer and distributors) to keep and check this document, as well as ensuring a conformance process has been followed and the correct language translation for instructions are provided.
Therefore, unlike other main forms of globalization economic, political and cultural which were already strong in the 19th century, environmental globalization is a more recent phenomena, one that begun in earnest only in the later half of the 20th century.
Resilience refers to the ability of a system to recover from disturbance and return to its basic function and structure.
It proclaims five "principles of conservation by which all human conduct affecting nature is to be guided and judged." Nature shall be respected and its essential processes shall not be impaired.
In England and Wales 24 of the 54 county councils refused to participate and seven more co-operated only in a half-hearted way.
Conservation headlands were introduced in the 1980s by scientists working for Game & Wildlife Conservation Trust in Great Britain.
The latter scenario, in which a high-quality habitat is avoided, was first recognised as an important phenomenon in 2007 by Gilroy and Sutherland, who described them as "undervalued resources".
With increasing numbers of construction, agriculture, and scientific companies employing environmental consultancies, the industry can expect growth in the vicinity of 9.7 percent in 2008, amidst mounting public concern over environmental degradation and climate change.
In 2007, Scotland adopted the SRDP (Scottish Rural Development Programme), a £1.6 billion programme of economic, environmental and social measures designed to develop rural Scotland.
A case study in the use of these provisions was provided by the Franklin Dam non-violent protest campaign against the construction of a dam of Australia's last wild river; they being held by the Australian High Court to provide a valid basis for legislation protecting the Franklin River.
This principle is based on the fact that as much as pollution is unavoidable, the person or industry that is responsible for the pollution must pay some money for the rehabilitation of the polluted environment.
Using drug discovery artificial intelligence algorithms, researchers generated 40,000 potential chemical weapon candidates.
Sustainable development and regionalization: 1985 to present day In 1982, IUCN set up a Conservation for Development Centre within its secretariat.
On occasions, this leads to a third stage of genuine reform, but in most cases "sticking plasters" are applied.
The effects of economic development on environmental quality There are multiple factors taking effect on the relationship between environmental quality and income, making it difficult to predict and read.
Such ideas radically challenged conventions that are core to modern agro-industries; instead of promoting importation of nutrients and chemicals, he suggested an approach that takes advantage of the local environment.
Official US military records have listed figures including the destruction of 20% of the jungles of South Vietnam and 20-36% (with other figures reporting 20-50%) of the mangrove forests.
In February 2012, Senator Eugenio Rojas, who heads the governing party's delegation, describes the law as among six priorities for early passage in 2012.
See also Governance of protected areas UNESCO Biosphere Reserve External links Protected Planet - the most complete and up to date database of OECMs and protected areas around the world.
It was taken up by San Luis councillor Julieta Ponce, and presented on 5 June 2020 in the Senate by Eugenia Catalfamo, senator for the Frente de Todos.
Compliance is defined according to European emissions standards, with the Birmingham scheme adopting class D of the A–D classification system.
Further evidence of channeling the UN conventions principle of cooperation is their dispute section.
In Scotland, the effects of climate change can be seen in raised temperatures, increased rainfall and less snow cover (than the last Ice Age).
See also Declaration of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment (16 June 1972) [A/35/141 Annex I] The Earth Charter (29 June 2000) References External links Text from UN.org Full text Archived 2008-10-06 at the Wayback Machine Monitoring Ecological Change by Ian F.
If the population falls (due to a bad winter or illegal harvest) this will ease density-dependent population regulation and increase yield, moving the population back to N b {\displaystyle N_{b}} , a stable equilibrium.
Originally part of the Department of the Environment (DOENI), the agency was called the Environment and Heritage Service (EHS) until 1 July 2008, and also had responsibility for the historic environment.
The Cyanide Code is supported by a suite of documents that provide guidance and instructions to participating operations in preparing for certification and to auditors in assessing compliance.
The applications are subsequently reviewed, cultural monuments by ICOMOS and protected areas by IUCN.
Archived 2008-07-03 at the Wayback Machine Further reading Text (in Spanish) of the Ley (Corta) de Derechos de Madre Tierra Archived 2015-07-04 at the Wayback Machine, December 2010.
OCBILs have mainly been threatened by the relocation of indigenous groups and military actions, as the infertile ground has previously dissuaded human populations.
The enterprise was founded by King Dom João VI in 1810, but iron extraction in the area had already been known since the 16th century, when the expedition of Afonso Sardinha and his son led to the construction of two forges in 1589.
The Health Research Committee works with the scientific staff to develop the Five-Year Strategic Plan with input from HEI's sponsors and other interested parties, select research projects for funding, and oversee their conduct.
However, they add the caveat that "western worldviews are encapsulated within the English language and using western terminology to illuminate Indigenous ways of knowing, being and doing is inevitability fraught with misinterpretations and imperfect understandings".
The third is that there has to be plans prepared to deal with emergency instances of pollution to the beach.
While this was applauded as a success by some, others, including scientists and climate experts, argued that this still would not be fast enough, and that to prevent the climate from reaching an irreversible tipping point, the phase out must have happened by 2030 already.
The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is an independent executive agency of the United States federal government tasked with environmental protection matters.
2001) to mean the level of measures required to protect and prevent degradation of 1 or more natural resources, as determined by the Natural Resources Conservation Service.
History The Billion Tree Tsunami was a massive afforestation initiative launched by the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government in Pakistan in 2014.
At a regional level the regional councils administer the legislation and address regional environmental issues.
The marina has facilities for receiving recyclable waste materials, such as bottles, cans, paper, plastic, organic material, etc.
The lack of a code system in some countries has encouraged those who fabricate their own plastic products, such as RepRap and other prosumer 3-D printer users, to adopt a voluntary recycling code based on the more comprehensive Chinese system.
From his academic beginnings as a historian of world cultures and religions, Berry developed into a historian of the Earth and its evolutionary processes.
In 1989, it was merged with the Federal Office for Forests and Landscape Protection to form the Swiss Agency for the Environment, Forests and Landscape.
She served with the Integrated Human Exposure Committee and the Research Strategies Advisory Committee, among many others during her career.
On a typical day, the herd covers four to seven miles with an average customer's land takes between one and three days to clear.
It consists mostly of native grasses and serves primarily to slow water runoff and begin to absorb contaminants before they reach the other zones.
These early efforts were short-lived, however, and agricultural law as a distinct discipline did not resurface for three decades.
It implies the obligation of the State to design infrastructure and manage mobility systems that prioritize people over vehicles.
Other initiatives involved improving air and water quality and established improved federal provincial cooperation on environmental issues.
Indonesia The first LEZ in Indonesia is implemented at the old downtown of Jakarta, the Kota Tua Jakarta.
In the 2020s, the zones are categorized as follows: core (category I-IV), buffer (category V-VI), transition (uncategorized).
A State can nominate a maximum of one site per year to the World Heritage Committee for inscription on the World Heritage List, provided that the site has been on such a list for at least one year.
The distribution system is made up of an extensive grid of water mains stretching approximately 6,600 miles (10,600 km).
The Finnmark Act (Norwegian: Finnmarksloven) of 2005 transferred about 96% (about 46,000 km2) of the area in the Finnmark county in Norway to the inhabitants of Finnmark.
Cake (October 6, 1827 – August 26, 1899), commander of 96th Regiment, Pennsylvania Volunteers (1861–1863) and U.S.
An example of this can be seen in Copenhagen where, in an area closed to car traffic in 1962, there developed in just a few decades a culture of public political gatherings and outdoor cafes.
CLUZ CLUZ (Conservation Land-Use Zoning software) is a QGIS plug-in that allows users to design protected area networks and other conservation landscapes and seascapes.
Abracemos al Mar Menor is an international group of volunteers dedicated to raising awareness about the ecocide of the Mar Menor and La Manga, aiming for its recovery before it becomes irreversible.
Landscapes and seascapes that fall into this category should represent an integral balance between people and nature and can sustain activities such as traditional agricultural and forestry systems on conditions that ensure the continued protection or ecological restoration of the area.
Congress amended the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) in 1972, requiring EPA to measure every pesticide's risks against its potential benefits.
(In South Africa, for instance, the right is not, per se, to housing, but rather "to have access to adequate housing", realised on a progressive basis.) The duty of government is in the realization of these positive rights.
IUCN Categories and Criteria version 2.3 Before 2001, the IUCN used the version 2.3 Categories and Criteria to assign conservation status, which included a separate category for conservation-dependent species ("Conservation Dependent", LR/cd).
Department of Lands (1908-1945) In 1908, the department was disestablished with an amendment to the Constitution Act and its functions were divided between the newly formed "Department of Lands" and "Department of Public Works", of which the former is the ancestor to the current ministry.
Flooding Flooding in houses causes a unique opportunity for mold growth, which may be attributed to adverse health effects in people exposed to the mold, especially children and adolescents.
These three principles outline what conservationists and producers believe can be done to conserve what we use for a longer period of time.
Benefits and costs EMAS is a comprehensive and demanding premium label, whose implementation requires some financial and personnel resources.
The NWSI was born from political deadlock over the proposed formation of a federal marine sanctuary in the waters of northwest Washington, including Strait of Juan de Fuca and the San Juan Islands.
During weekends, MacBeth started singing in local clubs, and he appeared on The Carroll Levis Discovery Show, at the Sunderland Empire Theatre.
Yap graduated from De La Salle University with a bachelor's degree in marketing, and later on received his master's degree in entrepreneurship from the Asian Institute of Management.
He is known in popular culture as the eponym of the rock band Lynyrd Skynyrd; Skinner was the band members' teacher.
Jamie Masada (Persian: جمی ماسادا; born in Pahlavi Iran) is a Persian American businessman and comedian.
It is considered likely that all three denunciations against him were performed under pressure from the interrogators.
He had ten children, six sons (Patrick Dominic, Timothy, Tom John Gerard and Edmond ) and three daughters (Madeleine, Marie and Nan).
In 1992, he was hospitalized following a heart attack and mafia hitmen strangled him with a pillow at the hospital.
He came to Milwaukee with his parents at the age of three years, and received his early education in the city's parochial schools.
Early life Born in New York City, Dash swept the floors of a local barbershop and sold newspapers in order to buy sneakers and shirts as a teenager.
A show that had already been declared dead was reanimated only a few days after the sudden lockdown and there was active participation of a community in the topic of tattoo history.
Under the terms of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, Barceló, like the other Mexican citizens in the territory, automatically became a U.S.
Life Thomas Schreiber was the owner and manager of a popular and successful inn in the city of Mergentheim.
A forensic scientist who examined the handprint with infrared photography in the 1990s concluded that it had never been painted over, and stated that the history of Campbell's execution suggests a right hand print on the wall, rather than the left hand print that is currently visible.
1824) was a vintner and the landlord at the one time important hostelry named the Brownhill Inn, which lay in open country to the south of Closeburn in Nithsdale on the Ayr to Dumfries Road.
He would revisit the scandal one year later on SBS talk show Incarnation, discussing how it helped him grow up and how fans began to view him more as an adult.
His oldest son, John, married first Mary Olney, the daughter of Thomas Olney and Mary Small, and secondly Rebecca Scott, the widow of John Scott (son of Richard Scott and Catharine Marbury).
In Fiction Mullally is a major character in a time travel/alternate history story, "Timely Misadventure", appearing in the book Altered Times surviving the attack and later elected president.
The pseudonymous food critic Brooks of Sheffield, writing for Eater, called Neary a "faithful and attentive owner".
After a career as a New York City Police Department detective, he purchased and owned Showman’s Jazz Club.
Emboldened by the success of the Franklin Elementary school demonstrations, the CFFN recruited new members, sponsored voter registration drives and planned a citywide boycott of Chester schools.
On January 6, 2017, Master P released his sixth collaboration mixtape, titled We All We Got, with his group No Limit Boys.
At the age of 10, he visited the Copacabana nightclub in Manhattan with his parents, an experience that left a lasting impression on him.
Career He was a Member (MP) of the Parliament of England for Oxford in 1379, November 1380, 1381, May 1382, 1385, 1386, November 1390, 1391 and 1394.
He then went outside, as if he were waiting for the ambulance, which caused the crowd to follow him.
Ford, a 1987 Star Trek tie-in novel, a small 3-person Sulek-Class dilithium-scouting prospector starship was named after the infamous con-man, USS Jefferson Randolph Smith, NCC-29402.
His letter to his wife, however, was intercepted by the authorities in Mergentheim, who successfully asked the authorities in Hohenlohe to extradite him to Mergentheim.
Campbell would later move to Petersburg with her husband Ebenezer Campbell, whom she married at some point after September 21, 1747.
This led to a April 1981 by-election which was won by Bobby Sands, an IRA hunger striker who died in May 1981.
In 1978–79, he was a producer of the films The Stud, The World Is Full of Married Men, and The Bitch, all based on his wife's books.
The two rappers have since resolved their dispute and have collaborated on two songs, "Wish You Would" on Ludacris' sixth studio album, Theater of the Mind, and "On Top of the World" on T.I.'s sixth studio album, Paper Trail.
His Battle Row saloon, located at Thirty-Ninth Street between Tenth and Eleventh Avenue, was used as the headquarters of the Gopher Gang during their early years.
It has also become known that some of the violins emanating from his shop and bearing his label were actually the work of his German wife, Catarina Guarneri, who apparently returned to Germany after her husband's death in 1744.
The story was taken up by Adrian Miller in a section of his 2021 book Black Smoke: African Americans and the United States of Barbecue.
Prior to closing, they announced that they had sold the building to two restaurateurs who planned to open an updated Irish restaurant.
1820 — May 2, 1899) was a Canadian hotelier and saloonkeeper during the gold rush period in British Columbia.
In 2008, Melnick opened the Apple Lounge a tiny, 150 occupant bar in the basement of the Apple restaurant in Los Angeles.
Duncan's recordings did not sell well in their era, but many have been rerecorded and rediscovered among fans of the Southern genres.
Career Since March 1992, Ahmed has been CEO of the Seamark Group, which he founded with his brothers.
World Series of Poker bracelets References External links Card Player profile Hendon Mob profile WPT profile WSOP profile
Griswold as Lieutenant, and with his cousin Lyman Yale as captain, the grandfather of inventor Caroline Ardelia Yale.
Although he signed a declaration of Toronto Reformers and joined a vigilance committee formed as a result in July 1837, Montgomery did not advocate open rebellion.
Early life Fleischman was born on February 1, 1940, in Manhattan and raised in Great Neck, Long Island.
He stated that they honked the car horn and were let into the house by Coxson; therefore, he assumed they were friends.
Netanel, who was chair of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem’s LGBT student union, Ha'Asiron Ha'Acher, was one of the people arrested.
Rose objected that he wanted someone who could choreograph "tits and asses," not "soft-soap from a crazy Armenian" (Yudkoff, 2001).
In 2023, it was reported that Hemmes had purchased two Byron Bay properties at an estimated cost of A$38 million.
He wants to help the people of Detroit, with alternative, non-traditional projects using assets that already exist in the community: the people who live there and a multitude of still solid, but underused buildings.
Johnson claimed to be trained in the law, but there is no evidence of his membership in any of the Inns of Court.
Renting the paddle steamer Goliath, he announced that he was hosting a free booze cruise to celebrate his "birthday", and to say "thank you" to his fellow crimps and runners who had helped him through the years.
Newly elected President of the United States, George Washington, stayed one evening with Samuel Taft and his family.
Top-echelon FBI informant Coincident with the South Boston cocaine indictments and the Boston Herald article, Tim Connolly received reliable information that he was being "set up by Bulger and Flemmi" with the DEA.
Later career When the Spivak orchestra broke up, he went to live in Florida, where he continued to lead a band until illness led to his temporary retirement in 1963.
It was founded in 1967 by Jimmy Neary (September 14, 1930 – October 1, 2021), an Irish emigrant who had worked in New York City establishments and served in the United States Army.
Since 2002, Valenti has produced the Howl Festival, named after the Allen Ginsberg poem and performed annually in Tompkins Square Park.
It took "Best Film" at the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum's first annual film festival on November 12, 2006.
Siegi Sessler (9 September 1910 – 1 April 1969) was a prominent London restaurateur and club owner in the mid-20th century.
Duncan established Playground Records with Shelby Singleton in Valparaiso, Florida on the Florida Panhandle near Alabama in 1969.
He was the West Coast Athletic Conference singles champion in 1972 and following his freshman year was the top-ranked collegiate player in the Pacific Northwest.
In July 2018, Easy's Burger moved locations, rebranded to "Easy's" and opened a full-service bar and restaurant with a '90s diner ambiance in the Beverly Center Mall between Beverly Hills and West Hollywood.
These awards were controversial, with various domestic violence charities criticizing the festivals.
She rented several tavern locations before moving to her permanent location in 1771, a one-story tavern that had a large public room, cellar, and a separate kitchen structure.
From one set of documents Mary John was born between 1785 and 1789 and was sold or passed by inheritance to a number of owners.
The saloon, according to author Frank Moss, was known for its violence as "several men were killed there and a number were badly cut and shot" during its forty years in operation.
In 1776 he was appointed as colonel of a New Hampshire militia regiment sent to reinforce the Continental Army in its retreat from Canada.
The Company was formed within the Lincoln Militia, and Runchey's son, George, also detached from the 2nd Flank Company to serve as a lieutenant.
In 1949, that section of the wall was removed and moved to the bar's new location at 699 Third Avenue.
She was one of six children to Erik Wickberg, General contractor at the Olofsfors estate in Ångermanland, and Brita Christina Eriksdotter.
The following year, under the alias "Sebastian", he appeared in solo masturbation scenes for three gay Club 1821 pornographic films: Young, Hard & Solo #2, Young, Hard & Solo #3, and Hot Sessions III.
He won election by 29 votes over Socialist former assemblyman Frederick Brockhausen, with 1496 votes against 1467 votes for Brockhausen and 28 votes for Prohibitionist H.
External links Eddie Connors Box Record https://web.archive.org/web/20080914124256/http://wrko.com/Whitey-Watch/975375
In doing so he played a role in helping launch the careers of Judy Holliday, Betty Comden, Adolph Green, Barbra Streisand, Pearl Bailey, Woody Allen, Dick Gregory, Lenny Bruce, Irwin Corey, Woody Guthrie, and Lead Belly.
It is also worth noting that the tone of both Stradivari and Guarneri did not come into their own until late in the 18th century, that the high-built instruments of Amati and Stainer were the only ones prized during the 18th century.
Nonetheless, Short had been in over 30 engagements fighting Indians while working for the government, with his first fight occurring in 1869.
He also operated the Gold King Mine in Silverton for four years with Otto Mears until 1918 when it was sold.
He then began learning the moulders' trade, and became a foreman in one of the largest manufacturing concerns in the state.
At the age of 22, he moved to Indiana Territory in what was then Knox County about two miles north of present-day Princeton in Gibson County.
When the California Gold Rush hit, ships were in demand to transport cargo and people from New York to San Francisco.
In 2007, Dirt Nasty released his self-titled debut album, which included the songs 1980, Cracker Ass Fantastic, and Droppin' Names.
Although having a large following on the West Coast, E-40 did not have a large mainstream audience, so only two of his songs released under Jive Records, "1-Luv" featuring Levitti and "Things'll Never Change" featuring Bo-Roc, charted on the Billboard Hot 100.
Sinatra himself apprenticed as a shoemaker, until he started prize-fighting, calling himself Marty O'Brien, because Italians were not welcomed in boxing.
Of course, in any club below Harlem, which had black entertainment, such as the Kit Kat Club, a black couldn't even get in.
Saul Bellow's novella, The Bellarosa Connection, depicts Billy Rose as a benevolent figure helping Jewish people to escape the Nazis in Europe.
He is also generally recognized as the last heavyweight champion of bare-knuckle boxing under the London Prize Ring Rules, being a cultural icon of the late 19th century America, arguably the first boxing superstar and one of the world's highest-paid athletes of his era.
A full report was made by the Cuban police, dated January 23, 1958, includes transcripts of long-distance telephone calls made from the Sans Souci during the period August–December 1957.
Keith Richards: "LIFE" https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/Q7510718 https://www.wikiquotes.org/wiki/Q7510718 [1] [2] [3]
Vioget also served as a witness to Sutter's purchase of Fort Ross from the Russians in December 1841.
He was also active in Havana, Cuba, where he served as pit boss at the Hotel Nacional casino and had interests in the Hotel Havana Riviera.
The couple raised his daughter from a previous marriage and they had a child together, Amy Christopher (born May 1967).
The family moved to Upper Canada and settled in Sidney Township, Hastings County, Ontario about 1800.
Samuel Gettys (1725–15 March 1790) was a settler and tavern owner in south-central Pennsylvania during the late 1780s.
His club, a popular Lower East Side underworld hangout, was also where James "Biff" Ellison and Pat "Razor" Riley planned the failed murder of Kelly at the New Brighton in November 1908.
In 1966 they opened the Afro-Caribbean-inspired Bamboo Club, which was billed as "Bristol's Premier West Indian Entertainment Centre", housed a restaurant, theatre workshop, football team and was the headquarters of the Bristol West Indian Cricket Club.
Professional career Berkmann was introduced to house music by a friend, who recommended Farley "Jackmaster" Funk's track "Funkin With the Drums Again" to him.
On a romantic ship-board passage to Africa, Caldwell had managed to secure a pre-nuptial agreement that guaranteed her an estimated annual income of £5000.
(Adriaan Waiboer, however, suggests that Metsu requires more emotional involvement of the viewer.) Vermeer probably competed also with Nicolaes Maes, who produced genre works in a similar style.
Busby saw much action with James Abercrombie's first attack on Fort Carillon on Lake Champlain, and, in 1759, participated in the capture of Carillon and Fort Saint Frédéric (also on Lake Champlain at modern day Crown Point, New York).
On May 29, 1654, Comstock wrote an affidavit about his visiting with a woman named Knapp who was charged with witchcraft and who was later executed.
In the 1980s, much of his financial clout came from the SAAR Foundation, a Herndon-based foundation with Saudi roots.
Her hotels at Barkerville, Lightning Creek and Stanley were examples of her skills in the business world and her pioneering of opportunities for frontier women.
Biography At the organization of the town of Charlotte, Vermont, his father was chosen as one of the selectmen.
Her touring took her to Texas, where she met a man known as Raymond; for the next 6 years they live together, during which time Kitty appears to have continued occasionally touring and performing.
That year, the Board approved a loan loss provision of $6.5 million, about 0.66% of loans to credit union members.
Life and career Born in Svir, Russian Empire (now in Belarus) to a Jewish family, Gordon emigrated to the United States in 1908 at age five.
However, she was charged with keeping a house of "ill fame" and her six girls (Jennie Palmer, Bessie Brundidge, Ann Carr, Birdie Harris, Mabel Smith, and Edith Brown) were convicted of frequenting a house of "ill fame".
In 2011, Masada received an award from Didi Hirsch Mental Health Services for being a Comedy Innovator and Humanitarian and for offering comics a listening ear to deal with their personal demons.
In December 2014, he was awarded by the UK Trade & Investment (UKTI) for contributing to Britain's export.
Brian Benham "Little Legs" Clifford (29 February 1940 - 28 September 1985) was a south London criminal and club owner who was murdered at home as he slept.
Conrad "Old Coon" Ten Eyck (August 13, 1782 – August 23, 1847), also known as Conrad TenEyck or Teneyck, was an American politician in the U.S.
This event was apparently heavily patronized and during which "large sums of money and several horses were exchanged." During the 1828 presidential election, Andrew Jackson's political opponents suggested that he may have engaged in treasonous sedition during the Burr conspiracy.
Only his brother Wyatt and sister Adelia survived him, with Wyatt dying almost a month later on January 13, 1929.
While working for Salter, Irving composed his first song for the club owner entitled "Marie from Sunny Italy" in 1907.
He married an American, Ann Randolph, in 1807 or early 1808 and began raising a family on his farm west of Kingston, Ontario.
Prohibition Granlund continued to stage live revues for the Loew's Theaters and became known for his use of scantily-clad chorus girls, comedians, and singers.
Vioget first went to work for fellow countryman John Sutter, surveying Sutter's Sacramento-area land grants in 1841 and 1843.
In 1802, it was her hotel which hosted the king and queen during their stay on their way to their meeting with the Russian Tsar by the Russian border.
NDP MP and MLA David Stupich was convicted for taking that money away from Nanaimo Charities, using a small part to pay Williams, and passing some of it along to the NDP and to Unions such as the IWA.
He had been away with his wife Bridget and became symptomatic after their return, then tested positive, with his wife and son David later joining him as COVID-19 positive.
In subsequent seasons head coach Don Fletcher installed the T formation and moved Thrower to quarterback.
The success of these businesses, together with his growing reputation and his passion for electronic music, led him to create The Night League, the nightlife and entertainment events company he founded in 2001.
SS has featured on radio shows such as BBC 1Xtra's D&B M1X, on which he put together an hour-long mix of Formation tracks and was interviewed about his career.
When Hlay returned to the field in the fourth game of the season it was as a defensive replacement, playing exclusively as linebacker.
Early life Francis Joseph Pearson was born to a working-class family on 22 March 1937 in Ancoats, Manchester, then part of Lancashire.
He was a deputy of the General Assembly of the Colony of Connecticut from Norwalk in the sessions of October 1686, May 1689, and May 1690.
- 01/01/1962" at rlhp.co.uk (New - "This www.rlhp.co.uk page can’t be found") Photograph "1962 Challenge Cup Semi - Wakefield Trinity won this tight game 9-0 in front of 31,423 spectators.
Triple O's Lounge Kevin O'Neill and his two brothers owned and operated Triple O's Lounge in South Boston, which served as the headquarters of Whitey Bulger's gang from the 1970s to the 1990s.
At Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from critics, the album received an average score of 69, which indicates "generally favorable reviews", based on ten reviews.
Unlike Dobbs, who eventually died penniless after handling $2 million in his criminal career, Bray "banked" his money and was reportedly worth between $200,000 and $350,000 at the time of his death.
Frank Wilkinson of Wakefield is robbed of a try by Malcolm Dixon and Jackie Fennell of Featherstone.
Biography Marie Rose Antoinette Catherine de Robert d'Aqueria de Rochegude was the daughter of the Marquis d'Aqueria de Rochegude, a landowner and shipowner in Le Havre.
Milliken's Corners The rural hamlet of "Milliken's Corners" was first settled in 1798 by William Dumont.
Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts (December 1, 1978) Photos by William Gottlieb 1938–1948 including Sarah Vaughan at Cafe Society BBC radio report on Cafe Society featuring Terry Trilling-Josephson
His parents were Abraham Ten Eyck and Annatje Lansing, and he was the grandson of wealthy Albany businessman Jacob Coenraedt Ten Eyck.
Emir Omar Chabán (31 March 1952 – 17 November 2014) was an Argentine impresario, who was sentenced to twenty years' imprisonment for a fatal fire in one of his businesses.
He then lived in O'Fallon where he farmed, ran a tavern, and operated a gristmill on Peruque Creek called "Bulls Hell Mill." Later he settled in St.
In 1991, Valenti and her husband Johnny Dynell created "Night of 1000 Stevies," an annual Stevie Nicks tribute which has continued for more than thirty years and featured performances by Debbie Harry, Cyndi Lauper, Boy George, Justin Bond, Sherry Vine, Taylor Mac, and Basil Twist.
The number of those in Runchey's Company varies by source and ranges from 27 to 50; men who wanted to join the Company met at Runchey's tavern.
Seungri also starred in YG and Netflix's sitcom-variety show, YG Future Strategy Office, playing a fictionalised version of himself appointed as senior adviser to the fictional division of YG Entertainment.
Dodge City and the Long Branch Saloon Charlie Bassett opened the original Long Branch Saloon in Dodge City in late 1872 in partnership with Alfred J.
Many of these performances were of historic significance, such as the performance by Jimi Hendrix, Buddy Miles and Johnny Winter in February 1969.
In 1910, as part of the Appalachian Exposition, Johnson cut down the lone tree in the middle of his racetrack to allow the first airplane to visit the city to land.
At Parkland, surgeons subsequently determined Ruby's bullet had entered Oswald's left side in the front part of the abdomen and caused extensive damage to his spleen, stomach, aorta, vena cava, kidney, liver, diaphragm, and eleventh rib before coming to rest on his right side.
His recollections of the burlesque era are included in Leslie Zemeckis's 2010 documentary, Behind the Burly Q.
In 1968, he persuaded his wife Jackie Collins to write her first novel, The World Is Full of Married Men.
In addition to his saloon-keeping duties and his ragtime composition, he controlled (with his brother Charles) a theater, gambling houses, dance halls, and sporting houses.
Popular culture In film The 2000 remake of the 1974 film Gone in 60 Seconds was inspired by The Untouchables car theft ring.
The local natives protested and the Governor agreed with them – Deighton went back to his previous bar, the Globe Saloon.
As more and more items were manufactured in house, Jones made the call to sell them as products separately.
His parents Tommy and Bridget had been away and, when Tommy became symptomatic after their return, both parents and son tested positive, with parents fearing the worst.
The investigation was moved from the local precinct to the downtown headquarters of the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD), where it continues.
After winning the German heavy lifting championship, the American circus Barnum and Bailey hired him, but World War I prevented Trappen's career in the circus from starting.
Krohngold and Strumlauf then formed a nightlife consulting company called Wildlife Resource Management, LLC before opening the new Tongue & Groove at Lindbergh City Center in 2008 with new operating partner, David Kreidler.
Roehl, was educated in the schools of Bellingham, Washington, and graduated from Gonzaga College in Spokane.
Fiercely independent, Barceló retained all of her own property throughout her marriage and was known by her maiden name.
Four years later, Krohngold, Strumlauf, and Jim Sullivan started Jack Rabbit Lounge in Buckhead Village.
In its first year, Vancity Enterprises (VCE) worked on several mixed-used commercial and social housing developments.
He worked in the real estate business during the 1970s, and in 1975, he allowed the band to use a photo of his "Leonard Skinner Realty" sign for the inside of their third album, Nuthin' Fancy.
Simon Rex Cutright (born July 20, 1974), known professionally as Simon Rex and his stage name Dirt Nasty, is an American actor and rapper.
Once again, the unknown gunman missed but Louie fired three shots in return injuring day laborer Patrick McKenna as a result.
At a small window above, which was unglazed and exposed alike to the heat of summer and the cool of winter...two or three sable faces appeared, looking out wistfully, to while away the time and catch a refreshing breeze; the weather being extremely hot.
Branche built close ties with students at Swarthmore College, Pennsylvania Military College and Cheyney State College in order to ensure large turnouts at demonstrations and protests.
Slave markets and slave jails in the United States Bibliography of the slave trade in the United States References === Sources ===
There, Runchey opened and operated an inn and tavern that became a local landmark, serving as a coach stop since at least 1798.
Career Grutman opened the nightclub LIV at the Fontainebleau Miami Beach hotel in 2008, and it was the fifth highest grossing nightclub in the United States in 2014.
an achievement that would earn him the nickname "Disco Daddy." By 1962, The New York Times, discussing and defining the new term "jet-set," used Coquelin and members of Le Club as paradigmatic examples.
The song Zu Mantua in Banden (today the anthem of the State of Tyrol) tells the story of his tragic fate and execution.
Lucy Maloul, a singer known professionally as Aliza Azikri, visited the club with her manager and husband Nissim Azikri.
1870–1878) was an American businessman, saloonkeeper and underworld figure in Manhattan, New York during the late 19th century.
Tubridy played in the "Milltown Massacre", a game against Kerry in which Clare let in nine goals that contributed to a 32-point loss.
Family At some point between 137 1380, Kenyan married Elizabeth, the widow of John Norton of Oxford.
Upon becoming ill he sought treatment at a hospital and received anti-anthrax serum, but the treatment was unsuccessful.
Daniel Rawlinson (died 1679), of Graythwaite and London, was a vintner in London, where he kept the Mitre Tavern on Fenchurch Street.
He took to it immediately and began teaching himself the instrument by playing along with records and using Tony "Little Son" Glover's book, "Blues Harp" -- the go-to instructional volume of the era -- as a guide.
They drive around in their hotted up cars with gold chains and tattoos and then they go home and sleep at mum’s.
In 1969, MacBeth was talked back into recording, and in May that year he released "Does Anybody Miss Me", on Pye Records, which was written by Tony Hatch and Jackie Trent.
Campbell later moved to Storm Hill in Lansford, where he served as a recruiter for the Ancient Order of Hibernians.
In January 2015, Nancy Walton Laurie, an heiress to the Walmart fortune and a Bel Air resident, filed a lawsuit through her company, LW Partnership, against Hadid.
Subsequently, he has had several notable roles in motion pictures, including Romeo + Juliet (1996) and Bring It On (2000), playing the romantic interest.
After completing his studies at Great Neck High School, he graduated in 1962 from Cornell University's School of Hotel Administration.
Some of the Indians gave chase on horseback, and Short killed two of them before finally reaching safety.
Michael Krohngold (born 1960) is the founder and owner of the Tongue & Groove night club and other entertainment venues in Atlanta, Georgia.
Life She moved to Brooklyn from Manhattan when she was very young, and she and her husband Joseph opened the bar in 1945; Joseph died in 1999.
In 1869, at age 15, Short started work as a cowboy, which he continued through 1875, during which he made several trips to the Kansas railheads.
Norman Milliken (July 11, 1771 Trenton, Province of Massachusetts Bay – February 2, 1843 Markham, Province of Canada) was a loyalist, farmer, lumber mill owner and hotel/tavern keeper in York County, Ontario.
After he left the band, he was arrested and convicted twice for possession of illegal stimulants, once in October 2002 and again in February 2006.
With William Rice, David Warriner maintained a tavern, which became the original boarding house of the Wilbraham Wesleyan Academy, opened November 8, 1825.
Joseph Montero's sister Emma and her husband Buddy, according to Pilar Montero, bought a grocery store on State Street from Pilar and her godson's father, who each sold them half for $800.
Samuel Matthew Moffie (born April 9, 1960) is an American novelist, bar owner and political activist.
After the Hanoverian succession in 1715, when the whigs were ascendant, Johnson had his greatest success with The Country Lasses.
Kind and affable in his disposition; possessed of rare conversational powers, in his declining years, he enjoyed the friendship and veneration of all who knew him.
Early life Born in Gort, County Galway, and educated in Athlone, Maguire worked in his youth in a pub owned by his uncle, future Nationalist Party politician John Carron.
Andrew Taylor died 29 March 1879, aged 79 years and Maria Woods Hill Taylor died 11 September 1881, aged 90 years.
As an ASCAP member, Billy Rose labeled rock-and-roll songs "junk" and was quoted as saying, "in many cases they are obscene junk much on the level with dirty comic magazines." Later years and death From 1959 until his death in 1966, he was also the owner–operator of the Billy Rose Theater.
Aron Mehzion (born 1970 in Asmara, Eritrea) is an Eritrean-born German visual artist, including sculptor.
The combination of airplay and website sales for the single led to him signing a recording contract in 1999 with Sony Music USA, under the C2 label, a subsidiary of Columbia Records, which had previously been home to New Kids on the Block.
Marriage to Hattie Buck Following the resolution of his legal problems, Short traveled to Kansas where he married Hattie Buck (born October 5, 1863) in Oswego, Kansas, on March 15, 1887.
On March 9, 2020, Seungri enlisted in the military at the 6th Infantry Recruit Training Center in Cheorwon County, Gangwon Province.
Bassett has had thorough training and is a good man for the place." On January 27, 1878, Dave Rudabaugh and four others attempted to hold up a train at Kinsley, Kansas.
2011–present In 2012, E-40 released three solo albums: The Block Brochure: Welcome to the Soil series 1, 2, and 3, and released a collaboration album with Too Short.
Musical artists and dancers showcased their work, including a young Rita Hayworth dancing in the chorus line.
Philip Steadman published the book Vermeer's Camera: Uncovering the Truth behind the Masterpieces in 2001, in which Steadman specifically claimed that Vermeer had used a camera obscura to create his paintings.
History It was founded in 1951 by Father Mario Borrelli in one of the poorest districts of Naples to care for the street children of Naples.
Also, the individual projects and investment proposals of each operational unit within the company should be totaled and treated as one large project.
The corporations sponsor child care as it may increase employee loyalty, lower workforce absenteeism, decrease maternity leaves and improve on-job concentration.
This is the method's most distinctive feature, in that the order is determined by amount owed, not the rate of interest charged.
It is an unofficial observance with the inaugural observance having taken place on January 18, 2020.
For example, a household with a total equivalence value of 2 would show that the household needs twice the income of a single adult household in order to achieve a comparable standard of living.
Money Management International was founded in 1997 by six financial consulting organizations that were members of the Consumer Credit Counseling Services (CCCS) network.
2007 report found significant racial disparities in 300,000 credit files matched with Social Security records with African American scores being half that of white, non-Hispanics.
The authors also found the "magic formula" was also associated with short-term underperformance in some periods, and significantly increased volatility.
The platform provides users with the ability to document and organize data from all instances of private income and expenditures.
Financial advisory companies such as LearnVest, Personal Capital and Credit Karma integrate PFM into their software.
If the length of the periods are equal (monthly payments) then the summations can be simplified using the formula for a geometric series.
Centers with less funding have less access to the tools required to meet the standards for quality child care.
They comprised one elected representative from each county and county borough council in the area which they covered and were funded by those same councils.
The interest rate on an adjustable rate mortgage, for example, is often linked to a regional COFI specified in the particular loan documents.
Some retailers use the gift card system for refunds in lieu of cash thereby assuring that the customer will spend the funds at their store.
Job market Workers are more likely to quit their job and switch to a higher-paying one because their current job no longer pays enough to cover their lifestyle expenses.
In early 2014, the start-up was backed up by the real-estate group, Nexity, who detains 80% of its capital.
Requirements for initial certification For initial certification, an individual must meet four categories of requirements: education, examination, experience, and ethics.
This often happens when one can use their partner's social network to better themselves in the labor market.
Emergency funds may be used in the case of job loss, medical emergencies, automobile problems, home appliance repairs and replacements, and unplanned travel expenses.
The strategy also outperforms the Indian stock market over the period July 2012 - Feb 2020, according to a 2022 paper.
The website of the National Wraparound Initiative includes a description of the practice model, as well as many implementation resources compiled from trainers, technical assistance providers, and program sites nationally.
In the United States, a creditor is required to give the reasons for denying credit to an applicant immediately and must also provide the name and address of the credit reporting agency who provided data that was used to make the decision.
Department of Health and Human Services (2011), there were 408,425 youth in the United States in foster care in 2010.
Benefactors are humanitarian leaders and charitable patrons providing assistance in many forms, such as an alumnus from a university giving back to a college or an individual providing assistance to others.
These individuals generally have moderate incomes with the expectation of increased income over the next 5–10 years.
The wraparound process has been cited as a promising practice in Surgeon General’s reports on both youth violence and mental health.
state of Texas External links Washington Education Savings Plans Official site Washington Student Achievement Council Official site References 1.
FICO scores, the most widely used type of credit score, is a credit score developed by FICO, previously known as Fair Isaac Corporation.
In March 2014, Qontis developed a personal Finance Manager, which should be able to access the data of almost all Swiss ("multibanking").
Research done by Michel Lejoyeux and Aviv Weinstein suggests that the best possible treatment for CBD is cognitive behavioral therapy.
Legal implications Not all escrow agreements impose the duties of a legal trustee on the escrow agent, and in many such contracts, escrow agents are held to a mere gross negligence standard and benefit from indemnity and hold harmless provisions.
Lack of guidelines for curriculum development - ECEC is not consistently delivered and does not benefit children and families equally In North America, no federal regulations for indicators or standards have been developed that would address these barriers consistently.
For example, law firm accounting includes trust accounts for disbursing funds entrusted to the law firm by each client for the client's benefit.
Requirements To secure the designation, applicants must have three years of full-time business experience within the preceding five years and must complete nine college-level courses, equivalent to 27 semester credit hours (9 courses).
Regulations by country United States In the United States, credit counseling agencies are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the nation’s consumer protection agency; the Internal Review Service (IRS); and the U.S.
Some criteria for referral are: Infant has been determined to tolerate two simultaneous modes of stimulation.
This raised the question of who would take care of the baby after birth whereas hitherto the roles of nurse and midwife were combined in one person.
For most goods the marginal rate of substitution is not constant so their indifference curves are curved.
See also 2021–2023 inflation surge Consumer price index Cost-of-living index Distribution of wealth Housing bubble Median income == References ==
Typical financial topics Credit cards Pensions Individual Savings Account (ISA) See also You and Yours, also on Radio 4, also includes much about personal finance, fraud and scams.
This is also called a tentative trust because it is contingent upon the death of the settlor or creator of the trust account.
112 (1904), the case decided by the New York Court of Appeals which established the legality of this practice.
The escrow payment used to pay taxes and insurance is a long-term escrow account that may last for years or for the life of the loan.
In other words, when the consumption of one good increases, as does the consumption of the complementary good.
Likelemba is an African solidarity savings mechanism, a type of ROSCA (rotating savings and credit association), where several members put a certain sum of money in a "pot" and, every month, the total amount contained in the pot is then disbursed to one of the participating members.
Another example of a partner's negative impact on career opportunity is when the family must move because of a job change.
She has also worked as a visiting consultant at King Fahd University Hospital, Gizan, Saudi Arabia and as a fellow in neonatology at the Milwaukee Children Hospital, Wisconsin, USA.
While Ualá’s primary product is its mobile app, the company operates within the larger fintech sector, addressing the need for digital financial inclusion in Latin America.
This type of insurance does not normally cover redundancy and does not pay for medical treatment, it is designed to only pay a monthly amount to cover the loss of income by the policy holder when they are unable to work due to illness or accident.
Lifestyle creep, also known as lifestyle inflation, is a phenomenon that occurs when, as more resources are spent on standard of living, former luxuries become perceived necessities.
As of 1 January 1997, no further settled land can be created and the remaining pre-existing settlements have a declining importance in English law.
Biography Born as Louisa Spencer on 4 January 1918, in Wellington, her father, Harry was a coal merchant and her mother, Mary-Ann (née Stewart), from Newtown, was a foster carer.
Firms favouring collective investment business will often call themselves fund supermarkets, while firms who focus on share dealing will often call themselves self-select ISA providers.
Customers expressed concerns as to whether the significant personal data held by MyBudget had been leaked or hacked.
Their flagship product, Quicken, became a standard for many households and was eventually followed by QuickBooks, which helped small businesses manage their finances.
Originally a site that let users view email, banking, news, travel, and shopping in one place, it soon pivoted to focusing exclusively on banking, allowing users to view their financial accounts from different institutions all at once.
The last council to settle was Glasgow City Council in June 2004 after 14 weeks of strike action, accepting a final offer of £9.83ph in contrast to the £10.13 won by the strikers in 16 of the other 32 local authorities.
In about 25 percent of its consultations, it helps consumers develop a debt management or repayment plan.
The 2021 Harris Poll related a diversity of effects from financial infidelity ranging from 19% of respondents improving their romantic relationship after the experience to 16% of respondents reporting divorce and 13% reporting separation.
Overuse of antibiotics in child care has led to an increase of antibiotic resistance in bacteria in childcare settings.
This is an example of a multi-objective optimization problem: many efficient solutions are available and the preferred solution must be selected by considering a tradeoff between risk and return.
The bill would also prevent persons who are barred or subject to final orders for conduct constituting fraud, manipulation, or deceit from being associated with a family office.
On the other hand, credit cards offer the illusion of an unlimited amount of money to the person, which can lead to high debt and negative psychological impacts such as higher anxiety levels.
For example, one rule could be that if a user purchases a cup of coffee, then the app will round up the charge to the nearest dollar and deposit the difference into savings.
Fines and public settlements have been instituted against major providers who have failed to obtain licenses while operating in the state.
The rehiring of retired employees often allows agencies to benefit from the experience of retired employees who may be relied upon to share their experience and training with new hires, or to supplement or "bridge" areas where person power is needed but not currently affordable.
In project finance, revolving credit facilities—commonly known as "revolvers"—are employed to manage short-term liquidity and ensure that critical debt service obligations are met even when operational cash flows are variable.
The fraudster promises to make the foreclosures, evictions, repossessions, high interest rates on loans, and other debt problems go away.
Research by Moty Amar and colleagues agreed that debtors are inclined to pay small debts first, which they attributed to "debt account aversion", i.e., the desire to reduce the number of outstanding debts regardless of balance or interest expense and focus on a "tangible sense of progress".
government-designated poverty income level for a single person unit (before taxes) and about 63% of the designated poverty level for a family of four, assuming only one worker (before taxes).
Becker thinks that when his income increases the household will focus more on the "quality" of the children and therefore the parents prefer to reduce the number of children.
A "lodgement vendor" is one who will verify proofs (rental receipts, medical receipts) to ensure that they are eligible for deduction as per the rules of Income Tax in India.
This will result in all other family members, who have selfish preferences, to seek to maximise the total household income as it will be in their interest of maximising their own utility.
Environmental consequences The catch-phrase of International Downshifting Week is "Slow Down and Green Up".
If a refinance is involved, monthly debts that are being consolidated are not taken into consideration, because they are built into the DTI by way of the new loan amount payment.
In order to qualify for the top-ups a person (or partner) must be in the United Kingdom, aged over 16, responsible for the child, in paid work and must not be receiving Universal Credit or other government childcare support.
Advances in financial cryptography (via public-key cryptography) could make it possible to use anonymous electronic money and anonymous digital bearer certificates for financial privacy and anonymous Internet banking, given enabling institutions and secure computer systems.
Some research suggests that non-monetary incentives produce stronger and longer-lasting effects on motivation and productivity than financial rewards.
Awards MyBudget's industry recognition is primarily attributed to its founder, Tammy Barton (formerly Tammy May), who has been acknowledged by various Australian business organizations for her entrepreneurship and female leadership in the financial services sector.
These taxes may depend on engine displacement, vehicle weight, miles traveled, CO2 emissions, or the car value.
Court refers to number of members in the union when considering plan established for union management.
There is no educational plan for the activities in pre-school classes, but school authorities may propose guidelines for the content of the activities.
Decision-making in the family Economists have different models of decision making regarding the allocation of labor within households.
Certain jurisdictions require facility owners to immediately confiscate controlled items such as firearms if they are in plain sight within a delinquent unit.
2008 - Two new playground structures and a bike path were added, along with an upgrade of the existing garden.
Attribution This Wikipedia article was originally based on Alma House, entry number 00070 in the New South Wales State Heritage Register published by the State of New South Wales (Department of Planning and Environment) 2018 under CC-BY 4.0 licence, accessed on 1 June 2018.
A benefactor (from Latin bene 'good' and factor 'maker') is a person who gives some form of help to benefit a person, group or organization (the beneficiary), often gifting a monetary contribution in the form of an endowment to help a cause.
Sponsored repayment is most effective when consumers earn rewards from purchases they already make and do not overspend in an effort to accumulate rewards, thus reducing the risk of taking on a larger financial obligation than they have capacity to pay.
Increased third-level education participation from the 1990s saw a decline in practical subjects not favoured for third-level entry requirements, including home economics.
In 2007, Financière Agache first took a 9.8% holding in France's supermarket group Carrefour, alongside Colony Capital and Axon Capital.
Additionally, Nand Ghar is also supporting the government in facilitating hot-cooked meals and fortified dry ration to beneficiaries.
Another major problem is that people spend more on consumption value (such as home rent) because they own the asset and mistakenly think that they are investing when they are actually consuming a house bigger than the one they would normally rent.
The scheme is provided on a per-person, not per-child basis, so both parents can claim under the scheme rules.
This flexibility in the law allows for public entities the choice of whether to provide benefits to different employee bargaining units.
In accounting, a down payment (also called a deposit in British English) is an initial up-front partial payment for the purchase of expensive goods or services such as a car or a house.
Typically formed during childhood, money scripts can have a profound and lasting effect on a person's financial behaviors.
An IOU differs from a promissory note in that an IOU is not a negotiable instrument and does not specify repayment terms such as the time of repayment.
Usage Typically, the person will write the name and average cost per month of a bill on the front of an envelope.
But since this accounts for a relatively short period, no strong and final conclusions can be drawn.
Turn-off notices, which are sent after a regular bill has been sent, but may resemble a bill, are generally sent several days to weeks before the planned date, giving the customer a sufficient amount of time to make a payment that would avert the interruption.
Running costs Fuel The fuel costs depend basically on four factors, namely the distance travelled by the car, the price paid for the fuel, the energy efficiency of the car and the type of driving.
Types of credit used (10%): Consumers can benefit by having a history of managing different types of credit.
There were eleven committees throughout England (North, Yorkshire and Humberside, North Western, West Midlands, East Midlands, East Anglia, Home Counties, London Boroughs, South East, Wessex, and South West) and one for Wales.
She has also contributed in initiating a three-year doctoral program in neonatology by the National Board of Examinations.
The Lake Placid Conferences (1899–1909) established home economics as a formal discipline in the United States.
Graduated payments are repayment terms that gradually increase over the life of a closed-end obligation.
This however, was not the case with the Making Home Affordable Programs that ran between 2009 and 2016 through the federal government.
Democratic transition period (1975 - 1986) Childcare was an aspect of women's rights taken up during the democratic transition period.
The writer stresses the need to firstly train as a nurse, otherwise the monthly nurse training is not long enough.
Author and radio host Dave Ramsey, a proponent of the debt snowball method, concedes that an analysis of the subject from a purely mathematical and interest rate perspective leans toward paying the highest interest debt first.
The West One Bridging Index (WOBI) is a collection of data intended to measure the state of the UK bridging market.
Seventy-eight percent of housing in 1961 consisted of single-family homes, compared to 56 percent in the Netherlands, 49 percent in West Germany and 32 percent in France.
Researchers theorize that these effects occur through a process known as institutional facilitation, whereby individuals’ attitudes, expectations, and behaviors are shaped through interactions with supportive institutions.
As of 2005, after Phillip Sydney's death, Australia had 200 GA meetings a week and thousands had achieved abstinence through Gamblers Anonymous Australia.
Several strategies exist to access these funds without penalty: The Roth IRA conversion ladder involves systematically converting pre-tax retirement funds to a Roth IRA, paying income tax on the conversion, then withdrawing the converted principal after a five-year waiting period.
For this reason, the nominee trust is not a debtor-person for bankruptcy purposes and therefore cannot obtain bankruptcy protection like it were a corporation.
An auto loan is a good example as the cardholder is generally making the same payment for 36, 48, or 60 months.
Men who down-shift their work life to part time hours at the age of 60 to 65 however benefit from continuing to work a part-time job through a semi retirement even over the age of 70.
Some of these versions are "industry specific" scores, that is, scores produced for particular market segments, including automotive lending and bankcard (credit card) lending.
If the employer is withholding, the employer may withhold 7.65% of the employee's cash wages for FICA taxes.
Following a meeting of the Lake Placid Club in 1898, trustees including Ellen Swallow Richards, Melvil Dewey, and his wife Annie Godfrey Dewey planned a formal meeting to discuss home economics issues in the United States with leaders in the field.
Their key advantages include: Durability and resilience, given their construction from high-grade, corrosion-resistant steel.
She also founded an English nurses' home in Paris, with a branch at Nice; the latter was still in existence at the end of the nineteenth century.
Finally, "exchange bequest" occurs when the testator engages in a sort of strategic game in which potential beneficiaries must render a (non-marketable) service in exchange for the promise of inherited wealth.
It is estimated that this will improve both borrowing costs and returns by lowering the default rate.
Methodology The basic steps in the debt snowball method are: List all debts in ascending order from smallest balance to largest.
Indifference curves exhibit diminishing marginal rates of substitution The marginal rate of substitution tells how much 'y' a person is willing to sacrifice to get one more unit of 'x'.
Most of it was invested in low-cost exchange-traded funds (ETFs) such as the Vanguard FTSE Emerging Markets and Short-Term treasury ETFs.
Candidates must complete two examinations in succession and pay an ongoing certification fee to retain rights to use the financial designation.
Fraudulent transfer liability will often turn on the financial condition of the debtor at a particular point in the past.
Researchers have tested several methods of family financial socialization to study how young adults remember their parents teaching them about money when they were growing up and if it contributed in any way to their financial well-being and helped in achieving financial independence.
This allows for the department to calculate payment of Child Care Benefit (CCB) fee reductions on behalf of children in their service.
From 6 April 2007 there was no practical difference between TOISAs and cash ISAs, and transfers into cash ISAs were permitted.
Size: 20 to 80 children; Integrated institutions for groups with a wider age-group distribution than the two other types.
Rather than amortizing the principal amount over time, revolving lines of credit (revolvers) solely accrue interest on the outstanding balance and is charged in arrears.
While theft in general remained far lower than its peak in the early 1990s, shoplifting has continued to increase rapidly.
IBS is a charter member signatory to the Washington, D.C.–based Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) and has agreement with the Kansas, US–based Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP) since 2004.
A Personal Equity Plan (PEP) was a form of tax-privileged investment account in the United Kingdom, available between 1986 and 1999.
The "neighbourhood effect" serves to devalue the house so that it is worth less than what has been invested in it.
The prompt logging of expenditures and answering the questions related to it encourage mindfulness and reduction of impulse buys.
In this age group, rapid career advancements lead to more discretionary income which can lead to excess spending.
Broadcast on Wednesdays, All About Baby was one of five weekly programs that DuMont offered under the umbrella heading Good Living.
Globally, there are more than 230,648 licensed CFPs, with 57% in Americas, 37% in Asia Pacific, 3.3% in Europe & Middle East and 2% in Africa.
On 20 May 2023 on occasion of the G7 Hiroshima summit, economic security was discussed for the first time as the G7 agenda, and "G7 Leaders' Statement on Economic Resilience and Economic Security" was issued based on the discussion.
For instance, a woman with a good income has a stronger fallback position than a woman with no individual earnings.
In this game, one individual (the dictator) decides how to distribute a sum of money between themselves and another person (the recipient).
Collective Switching is where customers negotiate a group deal with a utility service such as gas or electricity.
The National body of the SWI has Federations in most Scottish council areas and each Federation has Institutes which offer meeting points for local groups of women which meet regularly throughout the country.
When a mortgage is modified, the original terms of the home loan contract between a lender and a borrower are renegotiated and then altered, usually in the favor of the borrower.
If the owner died intestate, it went to his heir-at-law, and if he devised the estate it went to the devisee.
She was sent to England as a young child, and her parents subsequently settled to live at Stanmore, Middlesex.
Even nowadays, nannies are considered to be a privilege of wealthy families, putting the limitations on the working class sample.
Couple patterns of behavior related to money, including financial infidelity, can significantly influence relationship satisfaction and stability.
In March 2004, the nursery nurses embarked on an indefinite strike action, gradually a number of councils settled with the strikers, meeting their demands in full and by the seventh week of the strike seven local councils had settled, before UNISON called off its demand for a national settlement.
They also had a child named Walter in July 1953 who took the name Woods from Deirdre's new partner, Leslie Woods.
Contractual agreements can be secured by either a purchase money security interest (PMSI) loan, where the creditor takes a security interest in the items purchased (i.e.
Since 2000, in the United States of America, Federal and State agencies have allowed the rehiring of retired employees without the loss of their retirement benefits.
In addition to expenses and income, thoughts and observations are written in the ledger, with the aim of raising awareness of one's own consumption.
Biological changes in the central and autonomic nervous system also occur when the brain is constantly detecting and surviving threats, also known as survival mode.
This loan may refinance the entire mortgage, be in addition to the mortgage (requiring regular transfers to the mortgage) or in some cases involves an “offset” account, that sits separately to the mortgage but offsets interest on any deposit against the mortgage interest.
Registered Warrants were issued in July 2009 due to a temporary inability of the state of California to redeem its warrants.
The family now consisted of Tom, his 20-year-old oldest daughter, her oldest child (she had two more children in the next two years), and the 17-year-old Stephen.
spending/issuing thirty, taxing twenty) is properly called fiscal policy, and should not be confused with monetary policy, which refers to central bank lending.
Among the reasons the United States has failed to ratify the Convention is the fact that the Convention clearly states that anyone under the age of 18 is a child.
On the website there is a 'Have Your Say' page which publishes listeners' views on one story from the current week's Money Box.
The Relationship Questionnaire assess attachment style by crossing the positive or negative view of self and partner.
In the United States Following the 2007 real estate recession, the government mandated the program, Making Home Affordable (MHA), and its loan modification aspect, Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) became the answer for both the struggling borrower and the lender.
The total amount of interest paid over the lease term of N months is therefore N ( C r + F r ) 2 , {\displaystyle {\frac {N(Cr+Fr)}{2}}\,,} and the average interest amount per month is ( C + F ) r 2 .
The register is public and may be consulted by anyone in Parliament's three places of work (Strasbourg, Luxembourg and Brussels) via the Internet on the MEP's page in the online register.
At Cornell University, the first practice baby was called Dicky Domecon, named after the phrase "domestic economy".
PEPPs will be available to all residents in one EU member state no matter if they are employed, unemployed, self-employed or studying.
"Some are convinced that empowering large corporations to provide low paying jobs for our residents will bring economic empowerment to the community....
A pre-approval is based on the documentation the borrower supplies at the time of application, and any actual eligibility to receive the pre-approved loan depends on the terms and conditions of the pre-approval and the ability to secure the loan before the pre-approval expires.
This strategy can be adapted to multiple checking accounts, or by using budgeting software based on the person's preferences, in lieu of physical envelopes.
Cash-out refinancing: This method replaces the existing mortgage with a larger loan, allowing the homeowner to “cash out” the difference in equity.
Averting the turnoff It is not uncommon for a customer who receives a turnoff notice to panic or to attempt to avoid the provider while silently dealing with the matter.
APR may not, however, be particularly helpful when attempting to compare different products, or similar products with different terms.
Economic security of people over 50 years old is based on Social Security benefits, pensions and savings, earnings and employment, and health insurance coverage.
These rituals help the couple establish a shared history that they can draw on during lonely moments.
In addition, human capital contracts, like income taxes, can contribute to moral hazard, by discouraging borrowers from maximizing their income and encouraging them instead to focus on non-wage based forms of compensation, such as more enjoyable work, better benefits, or lighter schedules.
Adam Smith in The Wealth of Nations described the knowledge and skills of workers as a form of human capital.
It went on to acquire Maritime Commercial Bank of Kaliningrad in 2008, before closing its pilot Russian operation in 2009.
Higher LTV ratios are primarily reserved for borrowers with higher credit scores and a satisfactory mortgage history.
An installment note is a form of promissory note calling for payment of both principal and interest in specified amounts, or specified minimum amounts, at specific time intervals.
Key threat points include: Divorce (Exit Options): The utility an individual could achieve outside the marriage, influenced by their earning potential, assets, and prospects in the remarriage market.
ESA's and 529s are the only two types of tax-advantaged educational accounts currently allowed by the U.S.
CFED is well known in the field as the expert on Individual Development Accounts, as well as other asset building programs and policies.
Reasons also include spender's need to project a certain image and social status onto others, thus buying expensive gadgets and items just to fit in.
In Ireland a lodgement is an amount lodged to a bank account or paid into a bank account via a "lodgement slip" or "paying in" slip.
Spending money on things with ongoing maintenance costs, such as club memberships, also are demonstrated in lifestyle creep.
See also Osusu, another term for the same thing, used in different regions External links Likelemba according to congoforum.be Likelemba.doc on congoforum.be
The FICO bankcard score, FICO auto score, FICO personal finance score, and FICO installment loan score are between 250 and 900.
Average size: 19.7 children (1999) Admission requirements In theory, the only admission requirement to this type of institution is age, so that the minimum age to attend a nursery is six months, kindergartens three years, integrated institutions one year, and pre-school five to six years.
He bequeathed the furniture, ornaments, plate and effects at Alma to Frances, which furniture and effects were purchased with her own money.
The AoA funds local Area Agencies on Aging (AAAs) to provide supportive services to grandparents and other relatives aged 55 and older who are relative caregivers of children.
PEPs were superseded by Individual Savings Accounts [ISAs] in 1999, and remaining accounts were converted to ISAs in 2008.
A rise in saving would cause a fall in interest rates, stimulating investment, hence always investment would equal saving.
Based on an estimate from the Mercator Advisory Group, nearly $100 billion per year is spent on holiday gift cards, but as much as 3% of the cards will never get redeemed.
later, in 2015, the two ministers were merged into one ministry to become the Ministry of Labor and Social Development.
The Ministry of Social Affairs, since 2023 known as Ministry of Social Rights, Consumer Affairs and 2030 Agenda, is a department of the Government of Spain responsible for designing and implementing government policies on social services and welfare, families and disabilities.
Finally, a long-term goal, which is to achieve a competitive advantage for the economy, depending on the national manpower, for a period of twenty years.
After Independence in 1960, the Ministry has grown steadily, renamed the Federal Ministry of Employment Labour and Productivity in 1979 and the Ministry of Labour in January 2007.
The ministry manages 15 local employment and economy offices, 15 local Centres for Economic Development, Transport and the Environment and a host of separate national agencies.
It also seeks to create a "caring and active community" and to promote healthy, sportful lifestyles.
The head of the department was the Secretary of the Department of Employment, Kerri Hartland, who reported to the Minister for Employment, Senator the Hon.
The ministry has all the power to regulate all medical activities throughout the country through its chapters.
Of India has Introduce E-Shram Card For UN- organize Sector Employees Social And Economical improvement During The COVID-19 Pandemic Session on 1 August 2021.
Its mission is to "advance, promote and protect gender equality in South Africa through undertaking research, public education, policy development, legislative initiatives, effective monitoring and litigation".
Swasthya portal Ministry of tribal affairs launched the Swasthya portal, which will act as one stop solution for matters related to health and nutrition status of the Scheduled Tribes.
In the same year, Ministry arranged a meeting for the improvement of welfare and labour protection conditions.
(Official site) Youth and Sports Skill Training Institution, or Institusi Latihan Kemahiran Belia dan Sukan (ILKBS).
The Ministry of Employment assumed responsibility for labour market, labour protection and immigration issues.
A ministry of social affairs or department of social affairs is the common name for a government department found in states where the government is divided into ministries or departments.
The Ministry of Gender Equality and Family Welfare is a cabinet-level division of the Government of Mauritius.
The streaming service is in addition to the Government Communications and Information System spending R1 billion on its streaming service.
The Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia (Croatian: Ministarstvo zdravstva) is the ministry in the Government of Croatia which is in charge of health care and welfare.
With the onset of the military dictatorship, the Ministry of Labor was abolished, and its responsibilities were transferred to the Ministry of National Economy.
References External links Official website Official website (in Czech) Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic on European Commission website
History Upon assuming the Presidency of the Republic in his first term (2002–2006), President Álvaro Uribe Vélez decided to merge the Ministries of Health and Labor into the Ministry of Social Protection.
Background The Ministry of Social Development and Human Security (MSDHS) is a Thai government ministry created by the Restructuring of Government Agencies Act of 2002 in 2003 during the administration of Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra.
She was succeeded by lawyer Roubina Jadoo-Jaunbocus, however, she was removed from the position in July 2018 after an inquiry accused her of meeting with jailed drug traffickers who were not her clients.
The new Ministry of Health was also in charge of family affairs; the Ministry of Social Affairs took back consumer protection from the Chancellery.
The goal of delivering citizen-centred service has also been embraced by most developed countries around the world for several years – with Canada consistently ranked as a leader in the field by consulting firms such as Accenture.
Funding Description The base CPP is funded on a "steady-state" basis, with its current contribution rate set so that it will remain constant for the next 75 years, by accumulating a reserve fund sufficient to stabilize the asset/expenditure and funding ratios over time.
Department officials said the program was modern and fair and that it was part of ongoing contract negotiations with the local.
These mandates and the regulations that implement them cover many workplace activities for about 10 million employers and 125 million workers.
On 1 August 1987, the Council of Labor Affairs (Chinese: 勞工委員會; pinyin: Láogōng Wěiyuánhuì; Pe̍h-ōe-jī: Lô-kang Úi-ôan-hōe) was established as an independent agency under the Executive Yuan.
Its political head is the Community Empowerment and Advancement Minister of Israel, and its offices are located in Jerusalem.
After the Second World War the ministry became much more important, as the Netherlands transformed into a welfare state.
Petroleumstilsynet (Petroleum Safety Authority Norway) — Ensures occupational safety and health in the petroleum industry.
Governance and management matters SWD had not ensured that NGOs disclose their annual financial reports for public scrutiny in accordance with the LSG Manual.
Ministers Departments Union Minister Office Department of Social Welfare Department of Disaster Management Department of Rehabilitation See also Cabinet of Burma References External links Official website
Austria did not have a Ministry of Labor, or any other cabinet-level government agency with Labor in its name, for much of its existence.
Created as part of a larger ministerial reform aimed at reducing the national operating budget, it consolidated the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and the Ministry of Health.
The ministry overtook the responsibilities of the National Institute for Women (Instituto Nacional de la Mujer; INAM), which existed from 2017 to 2019.
The department delivers a number of federal government programs and services including Employment Insurance (EI), Service Canada centres, Canada Student Loan Program (CSLP), Canada Pension Plan (CPP), issuing social insurance numbers (SIN) and the federal Labour Program among other things.
The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs of the Czech Republic (Czech: Ministerstvo práce a sociálních věcí České republiky) is a government ministry, which was established in 1969.
The P.S is responsible for managing the ministry tasked with implementing the Cabinet's policies as it relates to what falls under the Minister's portfolio.
The Minister of Social Welfare is the minister in charge of the Ministry of Social Welfare, and one of the cabinet ministers of the Government of Bangladesh He is also the minister of all departments and agencies under the Ministry of Social Welfare.
After its 1906 creation, the Inspection du travail (IT, Labour Inspection) service was integrated to it.
The financial need of the student became the primary reason for funding, rather than academic prowess.
The only minister to head the ministry was Nyamko Sabuni who served as Minister for Gender Equality and as Minister for Integration.
Rimantas Jonas Dagys (born 16 July 1957) is a Lithuanian politician, member of the Seimas (1992–1996, 1996–2000), and from 2008 to 2009 assigned Minister of Labor and Social Security by presidential decree.
It also undertakes research and developmental activities ensuring emergence of disability inclusive policies, programmes and practices.
The PCC chose activities that had national application to create a national program of work for the Department of Social Security.
00002 and was referred to the Congressional Committee on Government Reorganization and Committee on Overseas Workers Affairs.
The minister of citizens' services (French: ministre des services aux citoyens) was a minister of the Crown in the Canadian Cabinet.
Preparing and implementing programs and related services for all categories of beneficiaries of social security services.
The Namibian Ministry of Health and Social Services was established at Namibian independence in 1990.
The Ministry of Labour and Social Security of Jamaica oversees Social Security and Welfare, Education Affairs and Services, and Labour Relations Employment Services.
The ministry is headed by the Minister of Social Affairs and Employment, currently Mariëlle Paul of People's Party for Freedom and Democracy.
National Occupational Classification, or NOC, is a systematic taxonomy of all occupations in the Canadian labour market.
The responsibilities were returned to social affairs in 2002, and inclusion was added to the title in 2006.
The avenue thus currently has a choke point between Belgrano avenue and Moreno Street, where the car lanes have to go around this building.
With the use of the database, projects like electrification can be concentrated on areas with high incidence of poverty, uplifting the community economic sustainability and reducing poverty.
Their workshops, one is called as the old laboratory which is near about 38 years old and meant for production and the latest is a new laboratory meant only for academics and research which is equipped with the latest pneumatic technology, with a workshop layout by Ottobock Healthcare, Germany.
The first Edition of the NOC was published in 1992, and a Second Revised Edition was offered in 2001.
Service Canada announced in fall 2005 that it was subcontracting some of its service delivery to SNB, the first public sector multi-service agency in Canada; this is believed to be a precedent whereby a provincial agency was contracted to deliver a federal service.
A ministry of social security or department of social security is a government entity responsible for social security affairs.
Additionally, several Joint secretary-level ex-officio members from various governmental ministries serve on the council as well as five expert members from nongovernmental organisations.
Luis Gonzalo Cornejo Hernández General Directorate of Employment General Directorate of Civil Service General Directorate of Cooperatives The General Directorate of Social Security Policy is charged with unifying Bolivia's retirement and social security systems into a single unified system.
In the Cabinet of Andrej Plenković in October 2016 the Ministry of Economy was merged with the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Crafts into the Ministry of Economy, Small and Medium Entrepreneurship and Crafts.
The minister also exercises the political leadership of the Ministry and acts as the immediate collaborator of the President of the Republic in the development of policies, plans, and programs aimed at gender equity, equality of rights, and the elimination of arbitrary discrimination against women.
They regulate the labor market to ensure fair working conditions, safe workplaces, and equitable employment opportunities.
The Milei administration alleged the ministry was a "politicized entity" in order to justify its suppression.
A major challenge inherent to data sharing is porting since different agencies are using different proprietary software.
The ministry mainly covered consumers' protection, children, family and youth related areas, custody of children, adoption, marriage, divorce and food safety (including nutrition and pest control).
The Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare of El Salvador (Spanish: Ministerio de Trabajo y Previsión Social) is a government ministry of El Salvador.
This ministry was created by a law promulgated by President Michelle Bachelet on March 8, 2015, during a ceremony held in the context of International Women’s Day, and published in the Official Gazette as Law No.
Marie) Cecil Facer Youth Centre (Greater Sudbury) Kennedy House Youth Centre (Ajax) Portage Youth Centre (Kenora) Peninsula Youth Centre (Fenwick, Ontario) Ge-Da-Gi-Binez Youth Centre (Fort Frances) William E.
With a range of program offices, the department administers various services including eligibility determination, foster care, early childhood development, services for individuals with disabilities, long-term living programs, and management of healthcare programs.
In 1968, Republic Act 5416, known as the Social Welfare Act of 1968, created the Department of Social Welfare, placing it under the executive branch of government.
ISWSFN International Social Welfare Services for Filipino Nationals is a program for migrant Filipinos and other overseas Filipino nationals who are in crisis situation and in need of special protection are encouraged to seek assistance in the Philippine Embassies in their countries of destination.
Groups identified as experiencing barriers to services Individuals subject to emotional, physical and sexual violence; Vulnerable persons (e.g.
However, according to Section 56, since there is no proper documentation committed by the indigenous people prior to 1997, an indigenous group cannot claim any land that have been in non-indigenous possession prior to 1997.
History The ministry was established in 2010 as a result of restructuring activities within the Georgian government in June 2010.
The 2011 revision combined the variation National Occupational Classification for Statistics (NOC-S) and the 2006 NOC version into one system with structural changes.
As of the 2022 election, they have been split into the Ministry of Employment and Ministry of Social solidarity.
Also, it found that 260 (76.6%) did not observe standards involving bus driver working hours, which prohibit them from working more than 16 hours a day in combined driving and office time.
The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic (MEYS, Czech: Ministerstvo školství, mládeže a tělovýchovy České republiky; MŠMT ČR) is a government ministry that was established in 1969.
List of ministers Key: References External links Department of Employment and Social Development Canada
The province of Quebec left the arrangement in 1954 because of concerns surrounding jurisdiction and autonomy.
The Labour and Welfare Bureau (Chinese: 勞工及福利局) is a policy bureau of the Government of Hong Kong responsible for employment, labor-development, manpower, human resources management, poverty-reduction, and social welfare in Hong Kong.
The portfolio for immigration was transferred to the office of Minister of Citizenship and Immigration following the reorganization of the government and formation of the department for Citizenship and Immigration Canada.
In 1969 after the incorporation of the Federal Ministry for Health (Bundesministerium für Gesundheit, created in 1961), it was changed to the Federal Ministry for Youth, Family and Health (Bundesministerium für Jugend, Familie und Gesundheit).
See also Cabinet of Turkey Sport in Turkey List of ministers of Youth and Sports of Turkey List of sports governing bodies in Turkey == References ==
On 16 July 2025 the Ministry of National Unity of Ukraine was merged with the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine.
Eligibility The poorest among poor families as identified by a 2003 Small Area Estimate (SAE) survey from the National Statistical Coordination Board (NSCB) are eligible.
They include: Abolishing the trafficking of children Increasing the number of women in major government sectors Educating women about domestic violence Improvement in domestic violence legislation See also Women in Ghana == References ==
The ministry would be in charge of some social issues that were formerly managed by either the Ministry of Women's Affairs, the cabinet, or the Ministry of Finance.
Until 2010, the department was responsible for FÁS, which had its responsibilities divided up between two bodies in 2013.
In November 2022 the federal cabinet adopted a new strategy to promote LGBTIQ+ rights and combat anti-LGBTIQ+ hate.
Responsibilities One of MSF's immediate priorities was to re-examine public policies to help get Singaporeans to marry and have their first child earlier.
The Council for Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination of Persons by Racial or Ethnic Origin The Independent Authority for Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination, established in May 2025, interacts with the Government through this department.
Then on 1 October 1937, its original name was reused as the Department of Labour and a new department created for the other, the Department of Social Welfare.
The Ministry of Labour, Public Service and Human Resource Development is a ministry of the Government of South Sudan.
In December 2017 the ministry was merged with that of Culture to form the Ministry of Culture and Sport.
Shortly after, the "Women in Nation-Building Act" (RA 7192) was enacted, which promotes "the integration of women as full and equal partners of men in development and nation-building".
Directorates MGLSD is divided into the following administrative directorates: Labour, Employment and Occupational Safety Social Protection Gender & Community Development Leadership The cabinet minister is assisted by five ministers of state.
The FPS Social Security (Dutch: Federale Overheidsdienst Sociale Zekerheid, French: Service public fédéral Sécurité sociale, German: Föderaler Öffentlicher Dienst Soziale Sicherheit) is a Federal Public Service of Belgium.
To undertake, sponsor, co-ordinate or subsidise research into biomedical engineering leading to the effective evaluation of special appliances/instruments or suitable surgical or medical procedures or the development of new special appliances/instruments.
In May 2023, Hong Kong Free Press released an article, which discovered that the CMAB had funded the Equal Opportunities (Sexual Orientation) Funding Scheme since 2003, with some of the money going to groups that promoted changes to sexual orientation.
This document is Canada’s first detailed study of compensation related to key occupations in the environmental sector.
At its formation, the portfolio was titled Minister for Labour before being renamed to its present designation in 1998.
On April 7, 2023, Lula re-established the body as the National Council for the Rights of LGBTQIA+ People, a 38-member body of advisors charged with proposing policies and supporting campaigns aimed towards support for the LGBTQIA+ community in Brazil.
Ministry of Economy, Labour and Social Policy is a Polish abolished government administration office serving the minister in charge of economy, labor, regional development, tourism, social security.
The Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elders and Children is a government ministry of Tanzania.
Organisational structure The Ministry of Women, Children and Senior Citizens have several departments, and subdivisions to facilitate and implement its work: The Department of Women and Children The Central Child Welfare Board The Social Welfare Council List of ministers == References ==
These three ministries were Ministry of Health (Estonian: Tervishoiuministeerium), Ministry of Social Care (Estonian: Sotsiaalhooldusministeerium) and Ministry of Labor (Estonian: Tööministeerium).
In October 2023, a provincial branch of the Department of Social Development (DSD) in KwaZulu-Natal, was accused by a local group of NPOs to not be paying much needed subsidies, having a negative effect on upwards of 400 000 people.
Responsibilities The ministry provide services and programs that relates to the care and protection of women and children, promotion of gender equality and the reduction of poverty.
Arbeids- og velferdsdirektoratet (Norwegian Directorate of Labour and Welfare) — Manages the Norwegian Labour and Welfare Service.
As a Canadian government publication it is concurrently published in French as Classification nationale des professions.
Worker Protection Administers the Wage Protection System (WPS), ensures occupational health standards, and enforces employment rights for all workers.
The coordinates of the ministry headquarters are 0°19'00.0"N, 32°34'43.0"E (Latitude:0.316677; Longitude:32.578611).
The ministry's programs and services cover a wide range of areas, including child protection, disability services, gender-based violence prevention, elderly care, and poverty reduction.
Ministers See also Ministry of Education, Heritage and Arts Ministry of Health and Medical Services Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation Ministry of Commerce, Trade, Tourism and Transport == References ==
In carrying out this mission, the Department of Labor administers and enforces more than 180 federal laws and thousands of federal regulations.
The Ministry of Social Development (Arabic: وزارة التنمية الاجتماعية في فلسطين) is a government agency in Palestine responsible for overseeing social welfare programs and services.
Declaration assembled main issues such as the creation of new workshops, achievement of the development through the decrease in inequality and investing in the improvement of abilities and realization of the whole usage of disabled people's potential opportunities.
The preceding Ministry of Culture, Monuments Protection and Sports was split into two separate government agencies: Ministry of Sport and Youth Affairs and Ministry of Culture and Monument Protection.
The MDR was particularly tasked with reducing regional inequality, housing, emergency management, water resources, urban mobility and development, integration and development of the regions of Brazil.
The Minister of Manpower and Immigration also chairs the higher committee for migration that was established in 1977.
In 2016, the NGOs Act was passed and the ministry sent letters to NGOs requiring them to disclose activities a month and a half prior to said activities.
It was abolished by the regulation of the Council of Ministers in 2005, and organizational units were incorporated into the new Ministry of Economy.
History The agency was established as the Secretariat of Public Works (Secretaría de Obras Públicas) in 1959.
The ministry was established in 2012 by combining the Gender in Development Division of the Cabinet Office with the Child Development department of the Ministry of Community Development, Mother and Child Health.
The Ministry of Labour and Foreign Employment (Sinhala: කම්කරු හා විදේශ රැකියා අමාත්‍යාංශය; Tamil: தொழில் மற்றும் வெளிநாட்டு வேலைவாய்ப்பு அமைச்சு) is the central government ministry of Sri Lanka responsible for labour, foreign employment services and development of Petroleum Resources.
In 1978, the Department of Labor created the Philip Arnow Award, intended to recognize outstanding career employees such as the eponymous Philip Arnow.
Building The ministry is located within the former Reich Ministry of Public Enlightenment and Propaganda.
In 1994, the Ministry of Social Issues and Health became the Ministry of Health and Welfare (보건복지부); subsequently, the organization began to take action of sexism.
New social program is "The National Photovoltaic Household Electrification Program", which goal is to secure electrification for poorest people in Peru.
Thus, says Kimura, Japan's public health policies lag behind other developed countries, by "decades".
In May 1982, the State Administration of Labor, the State Personnel Bureau, the State Editorial Office and the Bureau of Scientific and Technological Cadres of the State Council were merged to form the Ministry of Labor and Personnel, and Zhao Shouyi was appointed as the minister.
Michael Parsa was appointed Minister of Children, Community and Social Services after the resignation of Merrilee Fullerton in 2023.
In May 2023, the CMAB submitted proposals to forbid insulting the Hong Kong flag, both in real life and on the internet.
More specifically, this funding was announced to aid these organizations in meeting the increased demand for their services due to the strong advancement of equality.
The Ministry of Civil Affairs (Chinese: 中华人民共和国民政部) is a cabinet-level executive department of the State Council of China responsible for social and administrative affairs.
In 2023 the Ministry of National Defense and Ministry of Health and Welfare set up a reserve system for medical personnel.
The Labour Market Regulatory Authority (LMRA) is a government body in Bahrain with a corporate identity endowed with full financial and administrative independence under the authority of a board of directors chaired by the Minister of Labour.
The ministry is responsible for formulating and implementing national policy on labour and other subjects which come under its purview.
Health: Nand Ghar facilitates government vaccination programs for children and also extends health services through Mobile Health Vans and Telemedicine.
It is responsible for administration and policy making of social affairs, health and social security.
The Ministry of Social Affairs (Danish: Socialministeriet) is a Danish cabinet ministry responsible for policies related to the social welfare of the inhabitants of Denmark.
This came after the Brad Wall government made cuts to employment and work readiness programs in the 2017-18 provincial budget.
The ministry existed until November 1996, when it was along with the Ministry of Social Protection formed into Ministry of Labour and Social Protection.
The ministry includes two ministers: the Minister of Social Affairs and Health and the Minister of Family Affairs and Social Services.
Alteration of name and transfer of functions References External links Official website Spending by the Department
History The ministry was originally divided into two separate ministries – the Labor Ministry and the Welfare Ministry.
Organization The outward-facing divisions the Ministry of Labour are Trade Union Services and Industrial Relations; Employment and Wages and Inspectorate.
History MSF was formed on 1 November 2012, after it was announced on 31 July 2012 that the Ministry of Community Development, Youth and Sports would be restructured.
In November 2024, Marie Arianne Navarre-Marie was appointed Minister of Gender Equality and Family Welfare.
The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (Bengali: স্বাস্থ্য ও পরিবার কল্যাণ মন্ত্রণালয়; Sbāsthya ō paribār kalyāṇ Montronaloya) is a Bangladesh government ministry charged with health policy in Bangladesh.
These programs aim to reduce workplace poverty, promote positive labor relations, increase economic efficiency and productivity, eliminate workplace discrimination and inequality.
Its primary function is to promote employment and provide financial support for economically disadvantaged people.
The Ministry of Community Empowerment and Advancement (Hebrew: המִשְׂרַד לחיזוק וקידום קהילתי, Ha-Misrad LeHizuk V'Kidum Kehilati) of the government of Israel, is the governmental department responsible for Communal Development in the State of Israel.
History Initially, the ministry was formed as the Office of Labour and Labourers within the Ministry of Economy upon Act of Parliament No.
It was named Ministry of Labour and Social Policy until late 2015 when it was renamed to Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy.
History The Ministry was created in November 1996 by combining the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Social Protection.
As economic growth declined in Zimbabwe, so did the labour absorptive capacity of the economy such that by 2004, four out of every five jobs in Zimbabwe were informalised, resulting in massive decent work deficits.
In allowing the application, the Department will strike a balance between the smooth execution of the activities and ensuring that only an acceptable and reasonable inconvenience is caused to the public .
A member of the liberal conservative UCEDE party who campaigned for La Libertad Avanza and a former journalist, she was elected National Deputy for Buenos Aires before being appointed minister.
Interministerial Committee The Interministerial Committee is a body whose function is to collaborate in the implementation of policies, plans, and programs aimed at equality of rights between women and men, incorporating a gender perspective into the actions of the State.
Organisation MCILI consists of the following divisions: Immigration Corporate Services Trade Disputes Panel Company Haus Consumer Affairs & Price Control Marketing & Export Promotion Foreign Investment Business & Cooperatives Industrial Development Labour == References ==
Currently, this is equal to 25% of the average earnings on which CPP contributions were made over the entire working life of a contributor from age 18 to 65 in constant dollars.
The Ministry of Labor plans to move into Chi Ching Building 2023, and will no longer prepare budget for rent lease.
International Engagement MoHRE collaborates with organizations such as the ILO, UN Women, and GCC Labour Councils to promote ethical recruitment and international labour standards.
The precursor to the role was the minister of status of women, which was at various times was held by a secretary of state or minister of state.
Saujana Asahan National Sports Council Complex (Malay: Kompleks Majlis Sukan Negara Saujana Asahan) is a sports and recreation centre located in the town of Pekan Asahan in Jasin District in the Malaysian state of Malacca owned by the National Sports Council of Malaysia (NSC).
On October 17, 2024, the Ministry of Health and Welfare announced that more than 3,600 people died alone in their homes in South Korea last year, with middle-aged and elderly men accounting for more than half of such deaths.
In recent years, the ministry carried out an expansion of hospitals network by planned completion of 46 new hospitals by the end of 2011.
The Department also conducts research that develops the social indicators necessary for programme implementation and public accountability.
Courses During the initial phase, there will be three technician and managerial level courses along with a course in supervisory level.
The ministry is responsible for three fields of policy: The whole of education, from kindergarten, via primary education and secondary education to vocational training and higher education; Culture, arts and the public broadcasting; Science and innovation.
The Ministry of HRDC was reconstituted in February, 2006, as Human Resources and Social Development Canada, but still with two ministers.
The Ministry of Labour and Human Resources was a ministry of Bhutan responsible to facilitate human resource development for economic development and to ensure gainful employment for the Bhutanese workforce.
This new ministry assumed the responsibilities of up to three ministerial departments, namely: Those that the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and the National Institute of Social Services had in matters of social services and social action.
On 1 January 2007 the ministry was reinstituted after a decision by the new government that took office on 6 October 2006.
63/41) to establish the Department of Social Affairs, and on January 17, 1962, in accordance with Amiri Decree No.
See also Centers for Disease Control (Taiwan) Healthcare in Taiwan National Health Research Institutes (Taiwan) Pharmaceutical Affairs Law (Taiwan) Executive Yuan References External links Official website Media related to Ministry of Health and Welfare (Republic of China) at Wikimedia Commons
He was moved to the Ministry of Works and Housing and replaced by Adetokunbo Kayode in December 2008.
Ilamusikami Arugu The ministry's vision is to achieve a society where everyone is capable of functioning and achieving practical opportunities in the face of disadvantages.
Specific policies addressing sexism began to be addressed with the establishment of the Department Heading State Affairs (정무장관실) on February 25, 1998, after the inauguration of President Kim Dae-jung.
The Ministry of Social Security (Portuguese: Ministério da Previdência Social, abbreviated MPS) is a cabinet-level federal ministry in Brazil.
The Ministry of Social Affairs, previously known as the Ministry of Social Affairs and Labour, is one of the ministries of the State of Kuwait.
Its departments are: Social Welfare Rehabilitation Child Welfare Administration Finance and Accounts Planning, Research and Statistics The ministry has zonal offices in Abua Odual, Ahaoda East, Bonny, Bori, Degema, Eleme, Ikwerre, Ohio Akkor, Okehi, Opobo, Sokana, Oba/Egbema/Ndoni, and Okrika.
The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Employment (TEM, Finnish: Työ- ja elinkeinoministeriö, Swedish: Arbets- och näringsministeriet) is one of the ministries of the Finnish Government.
Addressing the needs of vulnerable groups in the labor market, such as women, youth, and people with disabilities.
Ministry of Labour and Social Promotion (Spanish: Ministerio de Trabajo y Promoción Social): 1981–2002 It ultimately acquired its current name in 2002.
Location Previously, when the Ministry of Social Protection had not been separated, it was located at Carrera 13 No.
The Prime Minister’s Office – Labour, Youth, Employment and Persons with Disabilities (PMO-LYED) can be traced back from the time when our country got independence in 1961.
Objective & Functions of the Department Directorate Sports and Youth Welfare functions as the vital Department for the development of Backward Classes of the society and minority communities in the state of Madhya Pradesh.
It was established in 2020 under the provisions of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019.
The decision was made due to the two agencies sharing about half of the same customers; as a single agency, the rationalisation of services would provide a better service for customers.
During the Mutual Assistance Cabinet period, the Ministry of Social Affairs was re-established to carry out development tasks in the field of social welfare.
The Undersecretary of Labor is Pablo Chacón Cancino, and the Undersecretary of Social Welfare is Claudio Reyes Barrientos.
At the same time, a minimum daily wage was established, regardless of the days worked, industry-wide labor contracts were systematized, the eight-hour workday was further implemented, and labor legislation was more formally enforced.
See also List of Pennsylvania state agencies References External links Pennsylvania Department of Human Services
Siculish is the macaronic "Sicilianization" of English language words and phrases by immigrants from Sicily (Italy) to the United States in the early 20th century.
Composition and lyrics "Baduy" has been described as a hyperpop, bubblegum pop, and electropop song.
The remaining girls played various roles in the underground club scenes, and an alternate cut was created, which can be seen on the official CW website.
Jennifer Lopez was originally intended to appear on the remix version, but Jaden Smith, whose father starred in the third film, appeared on the remix instead which was released on the film's soundtrack.
On 25 September, the band performed the song at the Global Citizen Festival in New York's Central Park, with BTS appearing virtually via a pre-recorded video that played onscreen behind them.
The new lyrics were translated into Japanese language by Ryuichi Sakamoto, and make direct reference to Fukushima.
Tena Šarčević of the Croatian portal Glazba.hr thought that the song talks about artists being underpaid, which leaves a mark on their physical and mental health.
With a goal of making Joyce's famously obscure novel more accessible, all audio from the project is distributed freely online.
The album was given its title because several band members had recently lost members of their families; Régine Chassagne's grandmother died in June 2003, Win and William Butler's grandfather (swing musician Alvino Rey) in February 2004, and Richard Reed Parry's aunts in April 2004.
Also, the gender distinction between English third person pronouns in Turklish is sometimes (though not always) non-existent, a characteristic derived from Turkish, meaning the different pronouns can be used interchangeably.
He also stated that the song, while "boasting of an amazing mix of melody and rhythm" remains "Indian at heart" and is "instantly catchy".
Based on success of "Hella Decalé", Music Media Consulting & Mam's Prod released DJ Mam's follow-up single, based this time on the zumba genre.
On March 27, 2024, Alamat released a three-track single album for "Dayang", including the original version, as well as R&B and acoustic remixes of the song, following six consecutive third debut anniversary shows from March 15 to 16.
The Spanish version was subsequently nominated for Record of the Year at the Latin Grammy Awards of 2008.
Charted for 17 weeks on the Ultratop 40, the song debuted at number 20 on 16 June 2001, reached the top ten two weeks later, and peaked at number five in its seventh week.
The original version of "Holiday in Spain" also appears on Counting Crows' compilation album Films About Ghosts (The Best Of...) (2003).
Carl Williott of Idolator opined that there is too much of Pitbull in the song, and not enough Lopez or Leitte.
It was written by Maluma, French Montana, Andrés Uribe, Kevin Mauricio Jiménez Londoño, Byran Snaider Lezcano, Stiven Rojas, Mario Cáceres and Servando Primera, and was produced by Rude Boyz.
Track listing Notes ^[a] signifies an additional producer ^[b] signifies a vocal producer ^[c] signifies a remix producer Physical releases of Charli credit Troye Sivan as a featured artist instead of a co-lead artist on "1999".
A subsequent album with a similar concept, Disney - Koe no Durimu Dyuetto (2014), includes a version sung by Mitsuki Saiga and Katsuyuki Konishi, whereas an additional version by Tasuku Hatanaka is featured on the 2018 album Disney Koe no Ōji-sama Voice Stars Dream Selection.
During the Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert at Wembley Stadium in 1992, this was the third song of the second half, performed by Zucchero and Queen.
Before Eurovision Jugovizija 1987 The Yugoslav national final to select their entry for the Eurovision Song Contest was held on 7 March 1987 at the Sava Centre in Belgrade, and was hosted by Dejan Đurović and Ivana Stanković.
The grand finale took place on May 10, 2022, and AleXa became the first winner of American Song Contest.
It marked the band's final studio appearance on Top of the Pops (having previously appeared to promote "Seven Seas of Rhye", "Killer Queen", "Now I'm Here" and "Good Old-Fashioned Lover Boy" respectively).
Additionally, Barrett observed that monolingual Spanish workers at this restaurant used their language to mock their English speaking coworkers.
Its laziness is demonstrated in the first 21 seconds, during which Lavigne holds a plush stack of cupcakes, shakes her hips, stares at the cupcakes, bounces her shoulders, and then, when she sings the line 'Someone chuck a cupcake at me'...
A Clockwork Orange The 1962 novel A Clockwork Orange by Anthony Burgess is partially written in a Russian-influenced argot called "Nadsat", which takes its name from the Russian suffix that is equivalent to '-teen' in English.
According to the Acceptable use policy of most providers where this limitation is in place, the speed is comparable to that of an old dial-up connection.
It was released on 19 March 2021 in two versions: one by the two producers, and another with vocals in Korean from K-pop group Stray Kids.
With the song's debut at number 13 on Billboard's Hot Dance/Electronic Songs chart, Forbes noted that Stray Kids became one of the few Korean acts to appear on the chart.
From May to September 2012, the song has also been released in Italy, Mexico and Scandinavian countries.
The latter two, Mishan and Delazyn (forming the duo The Fliptones) produced the track, along with Masís (Tainy).
Background and composition The song features a prominent, slowed down sample of the 1993 song "The Rhythm of the Night" by the Italian group Corona (the song is performed by Italian singer Jenny B, the ghost-voice involved in the project).
While the historical origin of the term is unclear, it has been particularly popularized by the Nobel-winning Italian playwright Dario Fo.
In Queen + Paul Rodgers Rock The Cosmos-tour 2008 it was played in the Spanish speaking countries, sung by May.
The song was a commercial success in France and Belgium, but failed to chart in other countries, and thus was not as successful as Kraftwerk's previous hit "Autobahn".
Chart performances In France, the version with Nâdiya entered the French Singles Chart number one on the chart edition of April 19, 2008, with 10,625 copies sold.
External links Jewish Languages - Jewish English Jewish Language Research Website Archived March 8, 2008, at the Wayback Machine Museum of the Jewish People
Rexha made various posts through Twitter on January 11, 2026, about wanting to leave the "Khia asylum" and shared an image depicting the Grim Reaper "freeing" artists such as Sabrina Carpenter, Charli XCX, and Zara Larsson, whom all had recent career breakthroughs.
It was first used unofficially for the Buryat Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic between 1983 and 1990, titled "Song of the Native Land" with original lyrics in Russian.
She then uploaded a "supercut" video which featured a snippet of each song being remixed, produced by American DJ Diplo, treating it as a promotional trailer.
Brighton Beach, a small area in New York, is rightfully considered the capital of "Russian English".
Arabic Persian Kurdish Turkish Other These foreign words are borrowed from European languages: See also Chaldean Neo-Aramaic, a language (also considered a dialect of Assyrian) which also uses some of these loanwords.
Development On 12 July 2016, Shreya Ghoshal recorded "Ghoomar" which was mixed and mastered by Tanay Gajjar at Wow & Flutter Studio in Mumbai.
Italo-Australian, an Australian-based dialect based on Italian with loanwords from Australian English and Italianizing English words.
"Meditjin" (English: "Medicine") is a song by Indigenous Australian musician Baker Boy featuring Indigenous New Zealand rapper JessB, released on 21 November 2019 as the second single from his debut album Gela (2021).
Many other examples of lettering and typefaces are based on Roman capitals, for instance lettering made under the influence of the Arts and Crafts movement in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries.
Music historian Paul Stump called it "one of the first pop singles to employ a bank of keyboards simultaneously for melodic and colouristic purposes".
The song begins with different sounds evoking the street: a door that slams, an English voice in a loudspeaker, a siren of a police car.
Music video Shot in New York City and in Puerto Rico by Liquid Films, the videos for the English and Spanish versions were directed by Simon Brand and produced by Betinna Abascal, Robert Feliciano and Robert Perkins.
Two promotional singles were released, including "I Like You Better than Me" and "Çike Çike"; while the lead single "New Religion" with English dance band Faithless was released in March 2026, and a second single "Hysteria" was released on April 3.
Impact and legacy "A game-changing debut", Funeral has been designated as "one of the most triumphant rock records" of all time.
It was filmed in Ibiza.The video presents the DJs, Natasha and Daddy Yankee at a party in Ibiza, while they use the Instagram app and making together a selfie.
Critical reception Ben Wener from Beaver County Times noted the "bouncing Afro-Cuban flourishes" of the track in his review of gloria!.
The song's lyrics contain Alice in Wonderland allusions and the stage performance took place on a checkered floor with "trippy" imagery and choreography.
It depicts the protagonist as they run around various locations while using everyday objects to change the environments.
"Fever" was recorded at Zenseven Studios in Los Angeles and Studio La Vague in Paris with the vocals being recorded at TaP Studio in London.
Later that same month, it was announced that she would be starring alongside Owen Wilson in the romantic comedy, Marry Me (2022).
[...] I always wanted to play a prostitute and I admit that for "California", it came spontaneously.
Song information In the United Kingdom, the song was released as the album's lead single on November 3, 1986, and became Harry's biggest chart hit, reaching number eight on the UK singles chart and becoming her only solo top-10 single there.
The sign dates back as far as 1955 at IBM, and a copy was reported at London University's Atlas computer facility.
This version was entitled the "Spanish Celebration Mix", and was officially made available for digital download in February 2010.
Track listing Digital download "Bola Rebola" – 3:13 Credits and personnel Vocals – J Balvin, Anitta, MC Zaac Songwriting – Tropkillaz, Anitta, J Balvin, Isaac Daniel Junior (MC Zaac), Hailey Leane Collier, and Jazelle Paris Rodriguez Production – Tropkillaz Charts Certifications == References ==
Live performances Zico performed "Duet" for the first time, alongside "Tough Cookie" and "No You Can't" under the theme "Count It!", on December 20, 2025, at the 2025 Melon Music Awards, held at Gocheok Sky Dome.
The music video reverses the roles of the two former lovers: Lavil is under the sun of the Antilles, surrounded by palms and the sea, while Béroard sings in the rainy Parisian streets (the Arc de Triomphe can be seen in the background).
Fathers and sons, particularly of teenage years and above, might speak Yeshivish, while mothers and daughters generally speak a milder variety of it, which generally features Yeshivish phonology but excludes many Talmudic words.
The latter performed a version of "Dancing Lasha Tumbai" where she wore an almost-naked bodysuit with 250,000 crystals designed by Vrettos Vrettakοs, before Verka covered then-incumbent winner "Toy" by Netta.
A snippet of the song was released by broadcaster Hellenic Broadcasting Corporation (ERT) on 9 February 2011 along with the other candidate songs from the national final, with the full song being presented by the broadcaster on 15 February 2011.
"Zumba He Zumba Ha" is a 2011 international hit song by DJ Mam's in Spanish, French and Antillean Creole The song is written and composed by Mounir Belkhir, Luis Guisao and Soldat Jahman.
Real Sound 's Tomoyuki Mori praised the song: he found the combination of Hoshino and Cole's pop and avant garde vocals "delightful[ly] ...
He additionally complimented Lipa's vocals for encapsulating her "yearning" particularly on the hook, also calling Angèle's appearance a "satisfying assist".
On February 26, 2006, Bocelli performed the multilingual version of the song during the closing ceremony of the 2006 Winter Olympics, in Turin, before the flame was extinguished.
Background, lyrics and music Written by Béroard with a music by Naimro, "Kolé séré" was first recorded in 1986 by Kassav', the band which Béroard and Naimro were members.
The English version was released as "Wavin' Flag (Celebration Mix)" by K'naan to differentiate it from the original Canadian hit or from the Canadian Haiti charity hit.
The Lion King 1½ (2004) The third version of "Hakuna Matata" (sung once again by Lane and Sabella, but this time without Weaver or Williams) is from the 2004 film The Lion King 1½ .
To change that, another version was also released and the music changed slightly to fit Afro Brazilian group Olodum's style of drumming – that version being the one that was used in the music video for the song.
It was featured on the band's second studio album, Plastic Letters (1978), and was the second UK single release by Blondie on Chrysalis Records.
The term can mean a type of English heavily influenced by another language (typically the speaker's L1) in accent, lexis, syntax, etc., or to the practice of code-switching between languages.
Thanks to its wide sidewalks, pedestrians are especially numerous on weekend afternoons as Porteños (residents of Buenos Aires) from various areas of the city come to shop.
"Dinero" (English: "Money") is a song by American singer Jennifer Lopez featuring American record producer DJ Khaled and American rapper Cardi B.
"Primavera in anticipo (It Is My Song)" as a duet, was included in the special edition of James Blunt's All the Lost Souls.
Written alongside Justin Quiles, it was released on 14 June 2019 by DJ Snake Music Productions and Geffen Records as the sixth single from Snake's second studio album Carte Blanche.
Khaled stated: "Everything's top secret, [but] I can tell you this: J.Lo's got some new music coming [...] I want to thank J.Lo for letting me be one of the producers amongst other great ones, and a feature on the record.
It is not uncommon that Irish songs were translated into English, with their chorus surviving in Irish, or being transformed into nonsense words (see Caleno custure me), but in most of these cases, some of the Irish version still survives.
It was released on 6 February 2019, as the fifth single from his debut studio album, Gioventù bruciata (2019).
The 2001 novel The Last Samurai by Helen DeWitt includes portions of Japanese, Classical Greek, and Inuktitut, although the reader is not expected to understand the passages that are not in English.
Later, this language became extensively documented by authors such as Oswald de Andrade and Juó Bananère.
"what do you have there?") was the German entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 2000, performed in an invented dialect of German by comedian Stefan Raab.
Examples See also African French Franglais References Sources DeLancey, Mark Dike; Mbuh, Rebecca Neh; DeLancey, Mark W.
In this, it was in competition with "Rufst du, mein Vaterland", a patriotic song that was widely seen as the de facto national anthem but was never given official status.
Background and promotion Sori announced her debut as a solo artist through her official YouTube channel on July 31, 2018.
On January 22, 2014, FIFA and Sony Music Entertainment announced that "We Are One (Ole Ola)" would serve as the official song of the 2014 FIFA World Cup.
The music video of the song released on 25 September 2015, through the YouTube channel of T-Series Telugu.
Chart performances In France, the song went straight to number 9 on 6 December 1997, and reached number one four weeks later, thus becoming the sixth bilingual number-one singles in France.
Tanglish refers to the macaronic code-mixing or code-switching of the Tamil and English languages, in the context of colloquial spoken language.
Regene Narciso of Village Pipol lauded the song for highlighting the group's trademark blend of pop and indigenous sounds.
555–590) 556.01-556.22 - Martyn Bates - "Night by Silentsailing Night" 589.12-589.19 - Stanton Warren - "...and the band played on" Chapter 17 (pp.
Gracyk also wrote that new listeners familiar with the song, who then wished to buy Combat Rock or a compilation album containing the song, would be surprised by the band's "strong critique of dominant Western values".
After the Chicago production closed on October 6, 2013, the same production began touring North America.
Its similar melody to a communist song possibly stemmed from the admiration of some of its members, such as Greek MP Ilias Panagiotaros, for Soviet leader Joseph Stalin, as a "great personality".
The song was released by Mercury Records on 18 August 2014 as the lead single from Girac's debut eponymous album, Kendji.
They also performed the song at the 2014 FIFA World Cup opening ceremony on June 12 in Arena Corinthians, São Paulo, prior to the Brazil v.
As of August 2014, the song was the 27th best-selling single of the 21st century in France, with 505,000 units sold.
Examples Among Brazilian Americans and others Many of these examples can also apply to other Lusophone diasporas as Portuguese speakers raised in an English-speaking environment, and English speakers learning Portuguese, or any otherwise native speakers of one language used to the other.
Track listings Digital download "Calypso" – 3:19 CD single "Calypso" – 3:20 "Calypso" (instrumental) – 3:20 Charts Weekly charts Remix Year-end charts Certifications See also List of Billboard number-one Latin songs of 2018 == References ==
A duet version of the song featuring Monica Bellucci was used for the 2002 film Asterix & Obelix: Mission Cleopatra, and the English versions "I Love You (Ti Amo)" and "You and I (Ti Amo)" were also released.
Nabulungi, heartbroken at the thought that she will never reach paradise, curses God for forsaking her ("Hasa Diga Eebowai [Reprise]").
Different scenes showcase Lopez dancing in the office with male dancers, dressed as staff, while Maluma looks on.
An accompanying music video was filmed by Bogdan Păun of NGM Creative and was uploaded onto Stan's official YouTube channel on 14 February 2018.
Awards "Jaleo" (Roger Sanchez Remix) was nominated at the 2004 Latin Billboard Music Awards as the Latin Dance Club Play Track of the Year.
In 2015, all three books of the Iliad translated by Melnick were published by the independent publishing house Uitgeverij under the title Men in Aïda.
It was released in February 1976 as the only single from their fifth studio album, Radio-Activity (1975).
Music videos The music video of the song was recorded on July 4, 2016, in a nightclub in Mexico City, and was directed by the Dominican director Jessy Terrero, who has worked with other Latin artists such as Enrique Iglesias, Anahí, Ricky Martin and Jennifer Lopez.
Historian Rana Safvi inspected all probable buildings in the Kashmir garden and found no such inscription attributed to Khusrau.
The song is placed at the beginning of the second CD, just before "XXL" and "L'Instant X", which does not comply with the chronological order of release of the singles, mostly respected in the track-listing (but it was also the first song on the album).
At a 1999 performance by Clegg, Mandela joined the band on stage for their performance of "Asimbonanga", and danced while the song was played.
DJ Mam's had found some success with "Hella Decalé" released in 2009 featuring vocals by Doukali & Soldat Jahman.[1] A Marseille-based hit, "Hella Decalé" incorporated Coupé-Décalé and Maghrebin Arabic music and was a production by Music Media Consulting & Mam's Prod.
Another pattern that has been noted by speakers or observers of Tanglish is the addition of the syllable "-fy" at the end of a Tamil word (e.g., maatti-fy, Kalaachi-fy).
The characteristics of current Finglish, in descending order of frequency, are: An example of today's Finglish might be: Mä lainasin faijan autoo ja me mentiin Mikan, Jennin ja Hannan kanssa kruisaamaan.
Anglicanism During the English Reformation, the Reproaches were suppressed by Thomas Cranmer, Archbishop of Canterbury when he authored the first Book of Common Prayer in the sixteenth century.
This was followed by 33 entries being selected to participate in auditions in Baarn, where the final 10 act were selected.
Background and release "Starlight" was first teased on October 4, 2018, as part of a trailer for Babymetal's first graphic novel, Apocrypha: The Legend of Babymetal (2018).
Rolling Stone Philippines' Sai Versailles praised the song for "reclaim[ing] Pinoy kitsch through its fusion of sugary, K-pop-inspired melodies with budots' infectious percussion".
The song's accompanying music video was directed by longtime collaborator Anthony Mandler and features French supermodel Laetitia Casta, who tries to seduce Rihanna and eventually succeeds.
The Dutch translation for narrow is 'nauw' (same etymology) or 'smal' (single l), so a more correct Dutch translation would be 'nauwband' or 'smalband' (single l).
(Unaspirated variants tend to be heard and spelled as voiced by the average North German, hence the spelling Pogge, Peder and Pabba.) Syllable-final /r/ is realized as a vowel and merges with certain preceding vowels; e.g.
will.i.am's solo parts were exclusively written for the international version, and for the K'naan part, some of the lyrics were amended.
It was filmed by Bogdan Păun from NGM Creative in Romania, while Alexandru Mureșan acted as the director of photography.
In 2023, Loudwire reported that the song's lyrics were the most-searched in the punk rock genre from January 2019 through July 2023, according to an independent study of search engine data pulled from Google Trends.
The song has four verses; the first discussing how the world has become a terrible place (due in part to nuclear bombs that can "blow us all sky high").
The single peaked at number one in Belgium and entered the top 10 in Iceland, Spain, and Switzerland.
While the partitive and accusative were vulnerable, other cases, including the illative and ablative, remained robust in the speech of these speakers, though adjective case endings were especially prone to deletion.
English loanwords that originate in Latin are usually amalgamated in Finnish by using the Latin and not English orthography and grammar.
They may also associate tones with the intonational pattern of a sentence and become confused by inflectional changes.
The melody was based on the popular Indonesian love song "Mimpi Sedih" by Aloysius Riyanto that Teka had heard from New Zealand soldiers stationed in Singapore while he was performing overseas from 1980-1982.
Locations Recorded at Rancho Pagzilla, North Hollywood, California Mixed at The Casita, Hollywood, California Mastered at Sterling Sound, New York City Personnel Charts Weekly charts Release history == References ==
The following are examples of sentences featuring Danified English words; the correct terms in Danish are also included as well: "Jeg blev nødt til at genstarte/reboote computeren, fordi programmet crashede.
The single, which features all four members — Felipe Colombo, Benjamín Rojas, Camila Bordonaba and Luisana Lopilato — was written by recognized Argentine director, producer and composer Cris Morena.
Reviewers from Times of India described the song as "a hook-filled dance number that has definite repeat value", while Joginder Tuteja from Rediff wrote that "the song has chartbuster written all over it".
After the announcement of the song, rumours circulated that Sabrina Carpenter and Farruko would feature on the song.
Critical reception Larry Flick from Billboard magazine wrote, "If you haven't joined the millions of people around the world who happily feast on the suave Italo-belting of Ramazzotti, then you need to catch up.
Since many prefixes and suffixes in English are of Latin or Greek etymology, it is straightforward to add a prefix or suffix from one language to an English word that comes from a different language, thus creating a hybrid word.
The questionable use of such fonts was the subject of a 2012 article in the Wall Street Journal by cultural commentator and journalist Jeff Yang.
Devansh Sharma from Firstpost remarked, "The soul of the new track is Neha Kakkar who brings a sensual-yet-never-raunchy appeal through her vocals.
Other researchers have extended Hill's analysis and suggested that "Mock Spanish" is a manifestation of linguistic racism.
It met with a commercial success, reaching Top 20 in no fewer than five European countries, including number 1 in Belgium, and now counts as one of Jones' signature tunes.
The high degree of contact between Spanish and English in the United States inevitably led to loanwords, calques, code switching and other manifestations of interactions between language that are common throughout the world.
Smallband (or reduced speed) is the slow internet connection speed given by Belgian Internet service providers when the monthly data-transfer limit has been reached.
"E Ipo", alongside "Poi E" (1984) by the Pātea Māori Club (also written by Pēwhairangi) were the first widely successful songs sung in Te Reo Māori in mainstream music, and had a great impact on the promotion of Te Reo and Māori culture in New Zealand.
Examples Translation of the traditional Filipino nursery rhyme Ako ay May Lobo (I have a balloon) into swardspeak.
As mentioned previously in the page, the initial flow of Spanish immigrants to France from the beginning of the 20th century up until the 1960s–1970s occurred for economic reasons and was the origin for this hybrid language.
Danification of English words Danglish words often receive standard Danish endings and prefixes; in other words, they are conjugated or declined in the same manner as Danish words.
Alternate video On 10 May 2019, the alternative video was posted on Alan Walker's YouTube channel, encouraging viewers to "choose their path" of either two video versions of Carpenter and Farruko in the official alternative music video, both were posted on their respective channels that same day.
In 2002, the American clothing retailer Abercrombie & Fitch faced controversy when it produced a series of T-shirts with buck-toothed images and wonton font slogans.
An important Italian example was Baldo by Teofilo Folengo, who described his own verses as "a gross, rude, and rustic mixture of flour, cheese, and butter".
Jones" (live at Ahoy, Holland) "Round Here" (live at Ahoy, Holland) European CD2 "Holiday in Spain" (with BLØF) "Rain King" (live at Ahoy, Holland) "St.
CarnevaleAfter the publication of Cartas D’Abax’O Pigues, it began to be portrayed as a "macarronic" language, with different definitions such as a language composed of a mixture of others; incomprehensible, etc.
On May 23, 2010, the song entered the Australian Singles Chart and the Swiss Hitparade at numbers 35 and 58, respectively.
It did not chart in the US pop charts, but made it to number eight on the Billboard Hot Dance Club Play chart.
In her opening monologue on a February 2020 episode of her self-titled talk show, Clarkson revealed her plans to release the song.
This is the first single to be taken from the resulting long player, The Rapsody Overture: Hip Hop Meets Classics (due on November 3).
Lyrics The composition's lyrics are mainly in English and Arabic, repeating the word Allah, the Arabic word for God used by Muslims.
As the prominence and influence of the English language in Hungary increases, Hunglish has also come to refer to the indirect effect of English on the modern-day Hungarian language.
Latin–Italian macaronic verse The term macaronic is believed to have originated in Padua in the late 15th century, apparently from maccarona, a kind of pasta or dumpling eaten by peasants at that time.
I am from Mumbai; Pitbull is from Cuba -- and we meet in Miami." In an interview with Katie Van Buren of Fuse on 15 August 2013, Chopra showed how to do some of the Bollywood-inspired dance moves that are featured in the music video, including the thumka and Bollywood-inspired hand motions.
"Perform This Way" is a song parody by American musician "Weird Al" Yankovic of "Born This Way" by Lady Gaga.
The video for "Dov'è l'amore" follows the story of a man who tries to win the affections of a Latina woman.
It is unintelligible to people not familiar with the Filipino gay culture or who do not know the rules of usage.
Before Junior Eurovision Junior Songfestival 2009 AVRO held a national final to select the Dutch entry for the contest.
For example, cerise (cherry) is pronounced [səˈʁiːzə], tête (head) is pronounced [ˈtɛtə], and it is sometimes pronounced even if there is no e; ciel (sky) [ˈsjɛlə].
Summer Love Love (戀夏戀夏戀戀下) "No One Knows" was performed by Terence Siufay on the soundtrack of Hong Kong film Summer Love Love (戀夏戀夏戀戀下), released August 25, 2011.
The single reached Top 10 in Belgium and Netherlands and the most popular single of Dimitri Vegas and Like Mike on Shazam.
It was announced at the site Amazon.com on 9 September 2013, with a release date scheduled to the day after.
/o/, /ø/, /e/ merge with /ɔ/, /œ/, /ɛ/, the resulting phonemes being pronounced open-mid in stressed syllables (unless word-final, where they are close-mid) and close-mid in unstressed syllables (except before /ʁC/ clusters, where they are open-mid).
List of English words of Semitic origin List of loanwords in Classical Syriac Hybrid word Morphology Romanization of Syriac == References ==
In 2011, French-Algerian rapper El Matador had also included a mix of "E No Easy" credited to "El Matador feat P-Square" in his mixtape release Escale sur la lune, adding French rap verses, raï influences and additional Spanish lyrics to the track.
"Idol" is in the key of C♯ minor and incorporates various styles such as pop, world, contemporary R&B, and K-pop.
Unreleased version Bonnie Tyler recorded English vocals on the song in 1997, and the song was scheduled to be released as the lead single from her album All in One Voice (1998).
Music video The music video was released on 4 December 2019, and was directed by Gabriel Gasparinatos.
On June 3, 2022, Estefan released the "Oye" English EP and its Spanish EP to all digital and streaming outlets.
During the refrain, Stan repeats: "I love it when you call me Mami/I love it when you call me Mami/I love it when you call me Mami/'Cause you shake me like a Tsunami", insinuating her desire to be viewed as a "mami".
A version adapted by Barbara Vann with music by Chris McGlumphy was produced by The Medicine Show Theater in April 2005.
Following its viral success via TikTok, "Laxed (Siren Beat)" was officially released to online platforms on 24 April 2020 and Jawsh 685 signed with Columbia Records in May 2020.
Many English-language films such as Armageddon, Toy Story or Ice Age, do not translate their titles into Danish, even if the films themselves are otherwise fully translated.
"Bola Rebola" is a song by Brazilian production duo Tropkillaz, Colombian singer J Balvin, and Brazilian singer-songwriter Anitta featuring fellow Brazilian musician MC Zaac.
"Luckily, I had just planted 50,000 trees; I'm told that balances my carbon debt for any Jaguars I might have been responsible for selling." Sting told Saga magazine in 2002 that he was "happy and surprised that the song did so well.
The lyrics include a tribute to the footballers of the Cameroon national football team named Les Lions Indomptables, especially Roger Milla, François Omam-Biyik and Thomas Nkono, whose names are mentioned in the words.
"Zumba He Zumba Ha" became hugely popular in dance venues all over Europe during 2011 and also appeared for a single week on the SNEP Top 200 chart, the official French Singles Chart at #192.
Below is de Kay's Georgie Porgie in the original English with the translation into French: Each poem is accompanied by a series of footnotes, ostensibly explaining obscure terms and references in the French, which parody the scholarly footnotes of philological texts.
"Sangria Wine" is a song by American singer-songwriters Pharrell Williams and Camila Cabello, released as a single on May 18, 2018.
Hunglish refers to any mixing of the English and Hungarian languages as a result of linguistic interference.
For example, in this phrase in French "Je m'assome à la fenêtre” we see the Spanish word "asomarse" adapting to the sentence.
It was the title song and first single from her No One Knows EP released by Gold Typhoon on July 16, 2010.
Aodhán Kelly and Tom De Keyser reviewed the first edition of Waywords and Meansigns for the James Joyce Quarterly.
A techno, Oriental, acoustic-guitar version (Aicha on YouTube) was performed by guitarist Muayad Jajo in Sulaimaniya in August 2014, published by Elite Studios.
Throughout the video, "Yankovic" dances in a number of different outlandish outfits, some inspired by the song's lyrics such as a gold lamé straitjacket, while others are parodies of outfits that Lady Gaga has worn, such as her meat dress and a dress made out of bubbles for The Fame Ball Tour.
Regarding the collaboration with Minaj, Bruner thought that the "collaboration mark[s] the beginning of BTS’ impending arrival on the U.S.
"aludtam, amikor megérkezett" = "I slept when she arrived" rather than "I was sleeping when she arrived", or "már voltam ott" = "I was already there" instead of "I have already been there").
The lyrics were written by Buryat poet Damba Zhalsarayev, and the music was composed by Buryat composer and music teacher Anatoliy Andreyev.
The song was entered by Mwangi into the 2011 Melodi Grand Prix, the annual selection process for Norway's entry to the Eurovision Song Contest.
Description Merchants define their relevant key terms, choose desired categories and a geographic area for the ad to appear (local, regional or national).
Thermoplastics could be used to produce toys much more rapidly, and much more cheaply, because recycled plastic could be remolded using this process.
The Pareto Principle (80/20 rule) is often cited in this context, reflecting the idea that a small proportion of accounts may generate the majority of revenues.
Also in April, Google searches of Monk-e-Mail would return more than 84,600 pages linking to the site.
Taika Waititi as Korg: A Kronan gladiator who befriended Thor, who was forced to participate in the Contest of Champions on the planet Sakaar.
Interactive advertising uses online or offline interactive media to communicate with consumers and to promote products, brands, services, public service announcements, and corporate or political groups.
The program originally only had an email feature, but abilities to send messages to social media accounts were added in updates.
The event has been called "the world's coolest poster convention" and "the venerable kingpin of the artisanal movie poster game".
While some customers may have the discipline to only buy the loss leaders, the loss leader strategy works because a customer who goes into a grocery store to buy an inexpensive bread or milk item may decide to buy other grocery items.
Corrugated and fluted polypropylene stands can be full colour printed and supplied as flat-packs, ready for quick assembly.
Information search is the process by which we survey the environment for appropriate data to make a reasonable decision (Solomon, 2011: 337).
A street team is a term used in marketing to describe a group of people who engage with urban or campus communities to promote events.
Researchers use blind taste tests to obtain information about customers' perceptions and preferences on the goods.
In 2008, OfficeMax partnered with JibJab and added a registration requirement in order to use the site.
A user receives a coupon notification from an application that he previously installed saying that there is a store nearby that he can make use of that coupon.
Overt observational research – The researchers identify themselves as researchers and explain the purpose of their observations.
A carrier can maximize profits by providing incentives to loyal but flexible travelers to plan and move their travel dates to lower traffic days, thereby allowing other fliers at premium priced tickets on the blackout dates.
As a result of market demand for paper posters, some of the more popular older film posters have been reproduced either under license or illegally.
Other menu options included placing an order for a free documentary DVD and a brochure for the Honda Accord.
Caltron 6-in-1 - Rare vintage NES multicart, later re-released as the Myriad 6 in 1 MaxPlay Classic Games Volume 1 Maxivision 15-in-1, which contained fifteen games from unlicensed NES manufacturers such as Color Dreams and American Video Entertainment.
Military defines campaign plan as: "A joint operation plan for a series of related major operations aimed at achieving strategic or operational objectives within a given time and space." == Notes ==
A seeding trial or marketing trial is a form of marketing, conducted in the name of research, designed to target product sampling towards selected consumers.
This aspect of the BCG matrix is considered one of its more significant limitations because "middle positions" often arise.
Supplementary material Other content released for the viral marketing campaigns include ongoing posts on social media sites such as Twitter and Google+, as well as a full-length piece on Mashable, attributed to Everhart, that serves as a companion to the videos.
Emotion - Strong emotions, especially high arousal emotions, increase the likelihood of sharing information.
To put the growth of this industry into perspective, for example, Yelp.com's growth alone can be noted: Yelp.com has more than 71 million monthly unique visitors as of January 2012.
The term is also used to describe aggressive sales techniques used by company representatives, particularly in the context of doorstep selling.
The total number of conversions minus the 'base' conversions will give an accurate view of the number of conversions driven by marketing.
The demographics of YouTube are: In the US, 82% of adult men and 80% of adult women report using YouTube.
It was not to be a prize of some tangible thing but rather a touchy-feely sort of gift that was more of a philanthropic thing than something you could hang on the wall.
Whitewashing can be seen in the form of skin whitening, either digitally or with harmful skin bleaching products, or by chemically relaxing textured hair to make it conform to Eurocentric beauty standards.
IndieWire's Eric Kohn echoed this, urging studios to invest in visionary filmmakers rather than trying to recreate Barbenheimer's success formula.
Marketing research conducted by Nokia has shown that one of the most-desired features that adherent Muslims look for in cell phones is a Qibla finder that will orient them towards Mecca during prayer.
The reality is that it is only the 'cash cows' that are really important—all the other elements are supporting actors.
NSS also created the main titles, end credits and optical effects, as well as distributing posters, stills and publicity material across the country.
Belk (ed), Handbook of Qualitative Research Methods in Marketing, Edward Elgar Publishing, 2006 Constance T.
In some cases, the transaction initiated by the mobile subscriber to purchase or subscribe for a service may fail because of the absence of enough prepaid balance required for it.
The term infomercial, by 2007, had come to refer to the format, even when used in a live presentation.
Communications Nova Scotia has been criticized by some for spending $175,000 on the ad campaign, though the website received over three million visits from 195 countries and territories since its launch on September 30, 2008, and they are considering it to be very successful.
Mondo Tees continued working with Jones for the Quentin Tarantino Film Festival in 2006, and Jones introduced the founders to artists such as Jay Ryan, Todd Slater, and Tyler Stout, and the company shifted its focus to posters more than T-shirts.
An Ice block occurs when the iced is already carrying a bottle/can of Ice on their person, or is in reach of one without taking a step.
This Kiss army was quickly taken over by the band Kiss itself and army recruits were offered limited edition merchandise and seating.
Technical advances The invention of a screw injection molding machine by American inventor James Watson Hendry in 1946 changed the world of cereal box prizes.
The CAN-SPAM Act was updated with some new regulations including a no-fee provision for opting out, further definition of "sender", post office or private mail boxes count as a "valid physical postal address" and definition of "person".
Then, they put it through the "modernizer" and at the end of the clip it is revealed to be a new Chevrolet.
The proposition must be strong enough to move the masses, i.e., attract new customers as well as maintain current customers.
The only real similarities between the aluminum used in the F-Series and some military vehicles are their composition and heat-treating.
In May 2024, the trend was further popularized when Trent made a follow-up video asking participants to mail figurines to him with their home state or country on the back.
Companies were also becoming more inventive in their marketing and were now using promotional merchandise throughout the year to support the promotion of brands, products and events.
They may or may not consciously distinguish that the term 'chemical' has different connotations depending on the situation." See also Appeal to nature Chemophobia == References ==
In September 2007, his videos earned the second-highest annual payout of his of about US$15,000 from the video hosting service Revver.
This architectural concept gradually evolved into a small yet grand residence used by Ottoman sultans, the most famous examples of which are quite possibly the Tiled Kiosk ("Çinili Köşk" in Turkish) and Baghdad Kiosk ("Bağdat Köşkü" in Turkish).
One of these social fashion services is LTK (LIKEtoKNOW.it before 2021) where everyday consumers can find and purchase clothing worn by social media fashion influencers (also known as SMFIs).
In this type of advertising, a company that wants to send a newsletter to their customers may ask them at the point of purchase if they would like to receive the newsletter.
Such devices allow customers to stay informed, gather information and communicate with others without being tied to a physical location.
The first season of the news program is presented by Matthew Edison as Cameron Coleman—a parody of Tucker Carlson and J.
A P&G spokeswoman said that the site's "broader personal wellbeing educational scheme was strongly supported by schools".
From there, they create their ad, containing their company name, address, a short description and a trackable toll-free telephone number of the PPCall provider, which redirects to the advertiser's actual phone number.
However, a free trial in exchange for credit card details can not be stated as a free trial, as there is a component of expenditure.
In this case, the fact of endorsement by using the club's logo is just considered an endorsement and is passively marketed through newsletters and possibly sponsorship signage and mentions as a means to advertise.
Opel and Mango have established a pan-European marketing cooperation around the Tigra TwinTop campaign "Every street is a catwalk" with a focus on communication.
The former was built in 1473 by Mehmed II ("the Conqueror") at the Topkapı Palace, Istanbul, and consists of a two storey building topped with a dome and having open sides overlooking the gardens of the palace.
While it has been usual for biotech firms to receive between 5%and 10% of the revenues incurred in mutual projects, this number has grown in some cases to around 50% (Zanetti and Steiner 2001).
Mass-media approaches are declining as advances in database technology enable collection of detailed information on customers.
There are two options when it comes to illumination: this can either be a light box or front-lit for versatility.
The company claimed that the site received over 10 million visits and 200 million page views in its first month of release.
The CPR mandates different standards authorities for each country: In England and Wales, standards offenses are handled by the Local Authority Trading Standards Services (TSS).
Consumers are more likely to trust a voluntary recommendation from someone they know more than a paid advertisement.
An introductory rate (also known as a teaser rate) is an interest rate charged to a customer during the initial stages of a loan.
The campaign ads called "House of Ugoff" featured the actor playing a fictional model and designer named Ugoff.
While the words "factor" and "effect", as used in the behavioral sciences, have different meanings, in casual vernacular, they have been used interchangeably as synonymous.
Prop makers later developed inflatable anthropomorphic figures to better convey volume at different angles.
The term, which originated in New England during the 2000s, and has spread to some other parts of the United States, is also sometimes misused in reference to an item offered seemingly at a bargain price.
The idea was first widely publicized in the book Lovemarks by Kevin Roberts, CEO of the advertising agency Saatchi & Saatchi.
Dataverse is marketed for use with other Microsoft products such as Power Apps and Microsoft Dynamics 365 applications, and has data connectors to other Microsoft products like Azure Event Hub, Azure Service Bus, Microsoft SQL and Azure Data Lake.
Overview Adding promotion onto existing transaction-related documents has a number of advantages over promotion by other means.
Advertising about advertisements is a form of viral advertising, whereby advertisers seek to garner attention for their ad and therefore product.
Videos Ant-Man campaign (2015) Captain America: Civil War campaign (2016) Cast and characters Leslie Bibb as Christine Everhart: The WHIH Newsfront presenter.
In the early 2000s, Brian O'Kelley created the first ad exchange at Right Media, known as the Right Media Exchange, which officially launched in 2005.
A 2010 study by the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity inspecting the kids' meals of twelve US food chains concluded that of 3,039 entrée combinations, twelve satisfied the advised levels of fat, sodium, and calories for preschool kids and fifteen those for older kids.
A dispersion approach allows the advertiser to reach a broader cross-section of the defined target market.
Footage of Miles Gaston Villanueva, Nick Wechsler, Laurie Holden, Brett Geddes, and Abigail Whitney as Alex / Drummer Boy / Supersonic, Blue Hawk, the Crimson Countess, Termite, and Moonshadow is also used ahead of their respective debuts as the characters in the third season of The Boys and Gen V.
Virtual environments are an important part of digital marketing strategies, helping businesses to measure audience participation and interest.
By the 1970s, the sample bag had evolved into the confectionary and merchandise-filled showbags known today.
Claritas PRIZM Premier is a set of geo-demographic segments for the United States, developed by Claritas Inc., which was owned under The Nielsen Company umbrella from 2009 to 2016.
History Before the advent of tag management systems in the late 2000s, adding or modifying tracking tags required web developers to manually edit the website's source code.
In his book Language and Politics, Noam Chomsky makes the argument that language is used to shape the way in which political events and people are seen and remembered.
It is a function of the Social Coefficient, which determines how fast content is spreading through social sharing, and the Sharing Ratio, a measure of how often your content is likely to be shared.
The progress towards complete cable, internet, and telephone packages gave subscribers many more options as well as offering hundreds of channels.
This lift over the base is often used as the weight for that characteristic inside the attribution model.
Content and scope Songs included on a compilation album may be previously released or unreleased, usually from several separate recordings by either one or several performers.
The advantage that the overt approach has over the covert approach is that there is no deception (see, for example, PCIA-II Participant Observation – The researcher participates in what they are observing so as to get a finer appreciation of the phenomena.
During an interview with Vocativ, one of five people claiming to be founders said the online business was created by "Jacob, Jerry, Juice, Alexander and Kamaruzaman".
History The principles of merchandising began to take shape in the 19th century, with the transition from small shops to wider sales areas and the emergence of modern supermarkets.
Facebook The introduction of the Facebook Pages allows brands to create a Facebook profile for their brand and promote their name.
Yahoo acquired Right Media in 2007, for $680 million, then shuttered the programmatic advertising DSP in 2014.
Originally, a second phase of the launch had been planned for 9 additional cities in the United States beyond Chicago, but the launch schedule was pushed forward due to the strong support from Hasbro and Toys R' Us executives.
Some vendors operate from kiosks (see mall kiosk), selling small, inexpensive consumables such as newspapers, magazines, lighters, street maps, cigarettes, live and frozen fishing bait and confections.
One message, attacking a nearby liberal arts college, was photographed, made into a postcard, and sold in the College Bookstore.
(The stitching appears during the moment when the exhaust [muffler] rolls across the floor.) Four days of filming were required to get these two shots, two days for each minute-long section.
Campaign plan is a plan to achieve an objective, usually of a large-scale over an extended period of time.
The Indian government and health ministry continued to push for stronger restrictions on the advertising of tobacco and liquor until its eventual complete ban in 1995.
Portal A released Let's Target with Target featuring Laverne Cox, Tabitha Brown, Emma Chamberlain and others and works with Target on several YouTube series like Teammates of Target.
Sony Mobile utilised a similar tactic with its Xperia Z-series smartphones, and Samsung usually releases a Fan Edition (FE) model of its Galaxy phone at the midlife cycle with some less important features omitted and at a lower price point.
If this happens, the icer (challenger) must drop and chug both Ices, the original presented Ice and the new blocking Ice.
A cereal box prize, also known as a cereal box toy in the UK and Ireland, is a form of advertising that involves using a promotional toy or small item that is offered as an incentive to buy a particular breakfast cereal.
Benetton Group has had several shocking ads of a priest and a nun kissing, a black woman breast-feeding a white baby, and death row inmates' thoughts.
A point-of-sale display (POS display) is a specialised form of sales promotion that is found near, on, or next to a checkout counter (the "point of sale").
Not all customers qualify as strategic or key accounts, and organizations typically base their selection on factors such as revenue potential, profitability, account history, and long-term strategic fit.
A new company which sells only hardware or only operating systems also has to persuade the consumer to throw away a purchased product; this is a barrier to market entry.
The two-year-long war boosted the price of the company from the initial €541 million "friendly bid" in 2013 up to the final sale price of €939 million ($1.07 billion).
Awards In 2014, Fortune and Great Place to Work ranked Custom Ink as one of their Top 100 places to work.
Daytime programming From the 1970s to early 1990s, locally produced morning and daytime programs designed mainly for a stay-at-home female audience featured light talk, followed by presentations of various products and services offerings of local businesses.
A population density slider affects the density of street-walking pedestrians and cars on the roads.
In November 2013, Custom Ink received $40 million from Revolution Growth, the investment fund run by Steve Case, Ted Leonsis, and Donn Davis.
This would make it virtually impossible for an airline to manage their fares (fares could then only be determined based on historical data and not based on current demand).
Ritual and symbolic uses The iconic nature of Champagne has long been used as a means of effusive ritual celebration, in which the wine is not consumed so much as "sacrificed".
Essentially the headline is linked to the information; Once the information changes, the headline is abandoned in favor of a new one.
Deloitte found that, in fact, customers who use a digital device in-store as part of their shopping process were actually more likely to make a purchase – not less.
Economic incentives Many pediatric practices struggle to remain profitable as the cost to administer vaccines has increased.
The documentary delves into the life of Cunningham, who was made famous on the internet through numerous public videos, notably her video "Leave Britney Alone", which garnered mainstream media attention.
The most simplistic way to achieve this outcome is to offer new paint colors, though most automakers will also update the interior and exterior design along it.
In June 2021, Speier reintroduced the Pink Tax Repeal Act, a bipartisan bill that pursues to end gender discrimination in the pricing of goods and services.
A $500 reward (roughly $25,000 in 2008 dollars) was offered for the "capture" of Miss Dolly Dimples.
Other A bait-and-switch job offer is when the actual work has large discrepancies with what was described in the job listing or interview.
Predictive and AI-driven segmentation, which uses machine learning models to identify high-value customers, assess churn risk, or predict purchase intent.
Production In June 2015, Leslie Bibb revealed that she was involved in a new project for Marvel Studios, reprising her role of Christine Everhart from Iron Man and Iron Man 2.
Agile marketing, often termed marketing agility or international marketing agility, comprises sensemaking, speed, iteration, and marketing decisions; marketing decisions are performed in an agile manner, using principles from the Manifesto for Agile Software Development.
Me at the Zoo (stylized as ME @ THE ZOO) is a 2012 documentary film directed by Chris Moukarbel and Valerie Veatch and starring Cara Cunningham, then known as Chris Crocker.
The goals of this interaction include causing an emotional reaction in potential customers, and getting people to remember brands in a different way.
The moment a customer enters a mall and is overwhelmed by the size, intentional clutter, and glitz of the mall, they forget their original goals and become susceptible to sales manipulation.
Often called autoresponders, new leads are automatically enrolled in a drip marketing campaign with messaging relevant to the call-to-action from which the lead came.
Marketing decisions, for example the marketing mix, are then made at speed, and quick plausible delivery favored over slower options.
Ironically, while the NFL charges money for radio feeds, it sells the Internet television rights to other networks that make those games available online for free, the opposite model of the other U.S cities major sports leagues.
The term is a misnomer, as all substances and objects are composed entirely of chemicals and energy.
Most of the emails that were passed along involved humor, although other factors - such as the presence of naked pictures and warnings about crime - were identified as being significant.
The film Mac and Me was widely criticized for containing extensive placements of Coca-Cola and McDonald's as major plot elements (going as far as crediting the chain's mascot Ronald McDonald as appearing in the film "as himself").
She was ultimately murdered by the recently revealed Eldwurm of the Void for hiring an assassin to end Princess Mirana's life and thus assume the crown.
If a wildcard is drawn, then all players must complete the instructions on it instead of answering a question.
In addition, the "best" option creates a halo effect, such as when Patrón's introduction of premium tequila caused its lower-priced tequilas to also increase in sales, due to improved customer sentiment about the brand.
Smarketing works best when a firm does closed loop reporting by tracking its success with particular prospects from the marketing stage through direct sales efforts.
The attractive lifestyles of the influencers influence their followers to mimic their luxurious lifestyle and are allowed to consume the same products through social shopping services.
The company's head of creative James Goode stated that the film was consistent with the company's values of "telling stories of belonging and acceptance", and its involvement and support in the LGBT community.
The casting itself can range broadly, from a non-actor celebrity, a glorified cameo appearance, to real-life relatives portraying fictional family members.
Marketing agility is customer focused, and has shown benefit in VUCA environments, including in deep uncertainty.
Advergaming examples include billboards advertising for (and product placement of) Bawls energy drink in Fallout: Brotherhood of Steel, and billboards for Adidas sportswear in FIFA International Soccer.
The word is now used in marketing and advertising circles as well as with media critics who use the term to point out deceptive marketing tactics.
In marketing, product bundling is offering several products or services for sale as one combined product or service package.
Also, NSS faced competition in the policy trailer and snipe business from other producers, namely Filmack and Pike Productions.
This is common with billboards, such as a billboard that says "A thousand people will pass by this billboard today.
It also advertises some of the company's products and has offered free samples from Always and Tampax.
Once the unique pick-up code is entered into the locker's touch screen, the assigned door opens for package retrieval.
Many advertisers prefer to expand their activities, including increasing search engines and adding more keywords.
We're Not Really Strangers (WNRS) is a 2018 card game designed by Koreen Odiney which gained popularity over social media during the COVID-19 pandemic.
A common derivative metric is incremental return on ad spend (iROAS), defined as incremental revenue divided by campaign cost.
CSK wraps provided an alternative to painting, which allowed taxi companies to bring a large fleet of vehicles into compliance with German law while maintaining the future resale value of the vehicle.
One jewelry sales consultant advised retailers introducing good–better–best pricing to set their "better" price about 10% higher than a product's average sales price, with "good" prices about 25% lower, and "best" prices no more than 50% higher.
It was the first time Microsoft would develop Office mobile applications for another smartphone platform.
As e-commerce websites tend to increasingly segment the market, some applications analyze the customers' online conduct in order to personalize them and offer them tailored products.
A trailer (also known as a preview, coming attraction, or attraction video) is a short advertisement, originally designed for a feature film, which highlights key scenes of upcoming features intended to be exhibited in the future at a movie theater or cinema.
When grouped and linked to individual people, we can uncover new ways to engage with those people while extrapolating engagement patterns to better interact with similar audiences.
In grammar, an incomplete comparison is a comparison that leaves out one of the items being compared.
In a double blind taste test, the experimenters know nothing about the participants, and the participants know nothing about the experimenters or the product they are testing.
The trailer may be created at agencies (such as The Cimarron Group, MOJO, The Ant Farm, Ben Cain, Aspect Ratio, Flyer Entertainment, Trailer Park, Buddha Jones) while the film itself is being cut together at the studio.
In France, the term began in inns where guests ate at a common table, called the "host's table" (though the host typically did not sit with the guests).
It is said that announcing a three-issue free trial and sending out a fourth issue works well to ensure good subscription rates.
It suggests that the seller will not show the original product or service advertised but instead will demonstrate a more expensive product or a similarly priced, but lower-quality, product.
Some of the items involved in trojan horse sales include cash, gift cards or merchandise viewed as a high-ticket item, but the item actually being given away is made cheaply, has a very low value, and does not satisfy the expectations of the recipient.
Where persistent follow-up can become a deterrent to closing the sale, methods with drip marketing offer the ability to remain top-of-mind, and even prompt action, without jeopardizing the relationship.
However, no cause of action will exist so long as the purveyor is capable of actually selling the goods advertised, even if they aggressively push a competing product.
By 2025, shovelware games using generative artificial intelligence, both for art assets and vibe coding, became appearing in various storefronts, leading to actions to remove these, such as with Sony.
In viral marketing, the K-factor can be used to describe the growth rate of websites, apps, or a customer base.
They had wished to work in the background, but they realized that more involvement was necessary on their parts because they knew "how to be redheads".
UK estate agents recommend enhancing kerb appeal through tasks like power-washing driveways or repainting the front door, helping to create a stronger first impression.
Wilert and Tripopsakul found that viral marketing is a tool that has shown to be more beneficial in targeting a younger demographic than the older audience.
Shovelware is a type of video game or software bundle known more for the quantity of what is included than for its quality or usefulness.
A parcel locker is an automated postal box that allows users for a self-service collection of parcels and oversize letters as well as the dispatch of parcels.
However, the Overspore has as much HP for each body part as the player's infector has in its "healthiest" body part, making the battle difficult.
The concept of the brandmobile has evolved from traditional vehicle advertising and builds on the tradition of novelty architecture.
Brands must think in a more innovative way in order to effectively engage and connect with consumers, to remain competitive and stand out from their competitors.
Price competitiveness remains a key factor, while the continued expansion of online platforms and e-marketing services is expected to further shape the market and attract new business clients in the coming years.
Microsoft Stream is a corporate video sharing service for enterprise users with an Office 365 Academic or Enterprise license.
The users were guided by a Microsoft assistant to test "Mojave." After the test, the participants were then asked to rate "Mojave," from 0 to 10.
The video was directed by Chris Romero, and featured 150 listeners of radio station Hot 97 as extras.
This is a controversy that the behavioral targeting industry is trying to contain through education, advocacy, and product constraints to keep all information non-personally identifiable or to obtain permission from end-users.
Location-based advertising is closely related to mobile advertising, which is divided into four types: Messaging Display Search Product placement Process For push-based LBA, users must opt-into the company's LBA program; this would most likely be done via the seller's website or at the store.
Programmed business intelligence software analyses this data and in the process, may also source data inputs from other internal information networks.
Theory Prof John Deighton (then of Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire) proposed in 1984 that advertising could enhance – i.e.
Its release is generally accompanied by billboards and television advertisements and has historically correlated with a boost to Spotify's app store ranking.
An advertising sign can integrate its main purpose with a telecommunications antenna or public lighting support.
Interactive advertising encourages consumers to actively engage in the marketing communications themselves to input feedback, neglect irrelevant elements, and absorb content that appeals to them.
These touchpoints are in place to specifically to influence the customer in regards to which purchase they make through effective control of layout and in store marketing (Marin, 2014).
Over 95% of transaction documents are opened and read each month, far more than other direct response efforts.
The GE multi-factor model or "nine-box matrix" was first developed by McKinsey for General Electric in the early 1970s.
Targeted advertising serves the purpose of placing particular advertisements before specific groups to reach consumers who would be interested in the information.
Banks often offer cash initially for opening an account, but later charge fees in much larger amounts to the account holder.
Examples Well known examples of murketing include the launch of Red Bull, which spent millions of dollars promoting stealth events and competitions that had little to do with their actual product.
Some advertising agencies have drawn similarities between flyposting and certain types of adware, which are more invasive to consumers.
Types Lobby cards Lobby cards are similar to posters but smaller, usually 11 in × 14 in (28 cm × 36 cm), also 8 in × 10 in (20 cm × 25 cm) before 1930.
This means consumers were no longer responding to, or willing to pay for, the extensive branding and advertising campaigns contained in the price of the branded product.
Generally, intertrigo is more common in people with a weakened immune system, including children, the elderly, and immunocompromised people.
It was later determined that in developed countries keeping the cord dry is sufficient, (known as "dry cord care") as recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics.
An older sister was producing illustrations for The Queen, and Bayliff won a competition to write for Woman.
The Liverpool Neurological Infectious Diseases Course (or NeuroID) is an annual two-day course aimed at medical professionals and students with an interest in neurological infectious diseases.
Duodenal lymphocytosis, sometimes called lymphocytic duodenitis, lymphocytic duodenosis, or duodenal intraepithelial lymphocytosis, is a condition where an increased number of intra-epithelial lymphocytes is seen in biopsies of the duodenal mucosa when these are examined microscopically.
Cuffitis is a common complication of IPAA, particularly when a stapled anastomosis without mucosectomy procedure has been used.
Treves' reminiscences mistakenly name Joseph Merrick as "John Merrick", an error widely recirculated by biographers of Merrick including the account rendered in the 1980 film.
The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) has set a recommended exposure limit (REL) of 2 ppm (16.2 mg/m3) over 60 minutes.
He defined psychology as "the facts of experience," as the book concerned itself strictly with scientific fact.
Reversing the bypass surgery is typically linked to a total and permanent remission of the arthritis, providing more proof of the connection between intestines and joint pathology.
In 2008, Prince Azim started the nine-month officer training course at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, but he dropped out after one week.
According to author and historian William Elsey Connelley, Utley was one of the most influential members of the senate during the chaotic sessions of 1900 and 1902.
Rodent mite dermatitis (also known as rat mite dermatitis) is an often unrecognized ectoparasitosis occurring after human contact with haematophagous mesostigmatid mites that infest rodents, such as house mice, rats and hamsters.
Types Zoon's balanitis, also known as Balanitis Circumscripta Plasmacellularis or plasma cell balanitis (PCB), is an idiopathic, rare, benign penile dermatosis for which circumcision is often the preferred treatment.
Arterial blood gas In arterial blood-gas sampling, a small amount of blood is taken from an artery, usually in the wrist.
He went to the sanitarium to undergo an appendectomy, since his appendix ruptured and peritonitis set in.
As borough president, he sponsored a number of improvements in Brooklyn, including building the Brooklyn Municipal Building, and advocated for an independent Brooklyn university.
Related substances Attempts to find anesthetics with less metabolism led to halogenated ethers such as enflurane and isoflurane.
However, the term was not limited to fungal diseases and could also encompass non-infectious conditions such as eczema.
If disease control is inadequate with steroids alone, immunosuppressives (e.g., cyclophosphamide, azathioprine, and methotrexate) and/or immunomodulators may be considered for treatment.
Majeed syndrome is an inherited skin disorder characterized by chronic recurrent multifocal osteomyelitis, congenital dyserythropoietic anemia and a neutrophilic dermatosis.
In a different naming scheme, inflammation that is predominantly pericarditis with some myocardial involvement is called myopericarditis, while predominant myocarditis with some pericardial involvement is called perimyocarditis.
On 14 September 1903, the British Liberal Unionist Party politician, Joseph Chamberlain resigned his position within the cabinet of the Conservative-led coalition government of Prime Minister, Arthur Balfour.
Considered to be an undersized halfback when he arrived on campus, McGregor went from freshman walk-on to a two-time All-American.
In 1922, shortly after inheriting the earldom, Lord Craven was named in the divorce suit between George Cathcart, 5th Earl Cathcart and Lady Cathcart, the former Vera Estelle Warter.
Atrophic rhinitis can also result from long-standing purulent sinusitis or radiotherapy of the nose, or as a complication of surgery of the turbinates.
When asked later by the New York City police commissioner how he managed to walk out of the room, Diamond said he drank two shots of whiskey first.
Hypertonic salt water—being more concentrated than human blood—creates an osmotic gradient when it enters the lungs.
The pinnacle of Sarg's visibility occurred at the 1933 Chicago World's Fair, where his cumulative audience was 3 million; Baird was involved in this production, as were Rufus Rose and Margo Rose.
Regular physical activity is encouraged for those with asthma due to its positive effects on overall health, however, it does not result in any direct improvement in asthma symptoms and no specific form of exercise is more beneficial.
Atrophic rhinitis is also associated with similar atrophic changes in the pharynx or larynx, producing symptoms pertaining to these structures.
Because of the provision against videotaping, Mudede stated that the law "points an angry finger directly at James Tait." In 2015, Mudede said that he was unaware of any bestiality arrests in Washington since the Pinyan incident.
Other conditions that can produce similar symptoms include pericarditis, heart attack, cholecystitis, pulmonary embolism, and pneumothorax.
Turner was one of the first scientists to systematically examine the question of whether animals display complex cognition, studying arthropods such as spiders and bees.
Injection of beta-emitting radioisotopes to locally treat synovitis has been performed in people for decades and is now being applied using tin-117m in veterinary medicine to treat canine elbow synovitis.
Histologically, neutrophilic infiltration of the endometrial tissue is present during acute endometritis.
As many as 5% of patients with IBD are co-diagnosed with PSC, and approximately 70% of people with PSC have IBD.
In recent years, a great deal has been learnt about the epidemiology, pathophysiology and treatment of reactive arthritis and chlamydia-induced reactive arthritis, specifically.
These mesenchymal stem cells then differentiate into chondrocytes, and osteoblasts, resulting in bone formation in soft tissues.
19th century research into lupus continued with the work of Sir William Osler who, in 1895, published the first of his three papers about the internal complications of erythema exudativum multiforme.
In addition to the sEH pathway, EDPs, similar to the EETs, may be acylated into phospholipids in an acylation-like reaction; this pathway may serve to limit the action of EETs or store them for future release.
Although PSC is thought to be caused by autoimmune disease, it does not demonstrate a clear response to immunosuppressants.
Treatment Treatment in humans consists of anti-inflammatory medication, cortisone injections, strapping to immobilize the big toe, and orthotics with special accommodations to keep pressure off the affected bone.
The biologic drugs that are currently used in treatment of panuveitis include anti tumor necrosis factor, cytokine receptor antibodies and interferon-α.
Another form of sterile endocarditis is termed Libman–Sacks endocarditis; this form occurs more often in patients with lupus erythematosus and is thought to be due to the deposition of immune complexes.
Scovell was named dean of the College of Agriculture, Food, and Environment there shortly before his death.
A Catholic, Lee opposed the reading of prayers at the start of Parliament, saying that any prayer would have an inevitable bias towards one faith or another.
A large part of this difficulty is due to a lack of ability to predict which people will progress to end-stage kidney disease, or kidney disease severe enough to require dialysis.
Good was a member of the United States House of Representatives from 1909 to 1921, where he represented Iowa's 5th congressional district (then made up of Linn, Grundy, Benton, Marshall, Tama, Jones, and Cedar counties).
Edward Francis Fagan (February 27, 1849 – December 7, 1901) was an American schoolteacher, principal, and politician from New York.
Crandall began the channel as a hobby during the COVID-19 pandemic, a time where handheld consoles grew in popularity.
The expedition covered the region from the mouth of the Clearwater River near Lewiston northward to Lake Pend Oreille in the northern Idaho Panhandle.
It also features a foreword by the rugby enthusiast, Robinson-family descendent and Chairman of Meade-King, Robinson & Co.
However, therapeutic challenges may arise from the fact that hypoglycaemia is a common complication, owing to the lack of alpha cells.
He was educated at St Ignatius' School in Richmond and St Patrick's College in East Melbourne, and had a broad range of occupations, including clerk, timberworker, machinist and tram driver.
In 1949, he purchased a sweet shop in Hamburg, and then moved into the Wholesale Confectionery business where he had annual sales of approximately 1.3 million DM.
The standard author abbreviation G.N.Collins is used to indicate this person as the author when citing a botanical name.
External links Tommy Corrigan's playing statistics from AFL Tables World War II Nominal Roll: Thomas Joseph Corrigan (41239) Australian War Memorial Roll of Honour: Thomas Joseph Corrigan (41239)
Microscopy laboratory tests may be used to rule out symptoms caused by trichomoniasis and other bacteria.
Marine microorganisms and particulates can further exacerbate inflammatory processes, which may cause or contribute towards systemic symptoms seen with this condition.
Distribution Genotype 1 has been isolated from tropical and several subtropical countries in Asia and Africa.
Patients whose cuffitis is refractory to mesalamine and/or corticosteroids should be evaluated for other disease in the cuff area, such as fistula or anastomotic leaks.
Four months after her death, her body was transferred to the Capuchin Convent in Paris, where her mother had purchased a vault for the family.
Infection is largely restricted to persons at high risk of hepatitis B infection, particularly injecting drug users and persons receiving clotting factor concentrates.
The video is often incorrectly mistaken for Pinyan's last sexual encounter with a horse called Big Dick.
The term atrophic vaginitis does not reflect the related changes of the labia, clitoris, vestibule, urethra and bladder.
Most of these individuals with chronic irritation from allergens usually need to take anti histamines or use a bronchodilator to relieve symptoms.
Given that CRION is responsive to immunosuppressive treatment, it was presumed to be immune-mediated, but this was uncertain as at the time there were no known associated autoimmune antibodies.
A small amount of pus-like material is commonly seen at the base of the stump and can be controlled by keeping the stump open to air to dry.
Treatment Medical In mild to moderate cases of scleritis, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as flurbiprofen, indomethacin or ibuprofen may be prescribed for pain relief.
See also List of members of the United States Congress who died in office (1900–1949) References United States Congress.
Migration west Repeated conflict in Nauvoo led Young to relocate his group of Latter-day Saints to the Salt Lake Valley, which was then part of Mexico.
In a study of 26 patients with dermatomyositis or polymyositis, only one patient reported chest pain.
Panophthalmitis is the inflammation of all coats of the animal eye including intraocular structures.
Signs and symptoms The infant with neonatal hepatitis usually has jaundice that appears at one to two months of age, is not gaining weight and growing normally, and has an enlarged liver and spleen.
William George Bradley Craven, 5th Earl of Craven (31 July 1897 – 15 September 1932) was a British peer.
After the Battle of Pea Ridge, most Confederate States forces were removed from Arkansas and transferred east of the Mississippi River.
ROSAH syndrome was first coined in 2019, and since then almost 70 patients have been identified from 29 unrelated families.
He In 1890 he visited Vienna and Innsbruck and made other trips to places such as Munich and Salzburg.
The peace studies major, the first of its field in the United States, had originally been established in 1948.
The cytologic findings by themselves may not be specific, and the diagnosis requires adjunct consideration of both the ultrasonogram and clinical presentation.
Tetter is an archaic term historically used to describe a variety of itchy, scaly skin diseases, rather than a single specific condition.
Swelling and hyperintensity may persist over months to years, but in most cases progressive temporomesial atrophy develops.
Chlorambucil Cyclosporine Tacrolimus Cyclophosphamide Mycophenolate mofetil Rituximab Perhaps the most difficult aspect of membranous glomerulonephritis is deciding which people to treat with immunosuppressive therapy as opposed to simple "background" or anti-proteinuric therapies.
Antinuclear antibodies (ANA), B12, folate, thyroid function tests, anti-aquaporin-4 antibodies (NMO-IgG), and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) can facilitate ruling out of other diseases.
Club career Kacian played for HAŠK in Zagreb and Hajduk Split before moving to Dinamo Zagreb after World War II.
Rublee returned to Milwaukee after finishing law school, becoming the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel political editor.
Clinical manifestations include dementia, polyarthralgia, low-grade fever, diarrhea, weight loss, lymphadenopathy, and neuropsychiatric symptoms.
Affected areas of the skin may have the appearance of a sunburn, even when clothing is worn and the skin is protected.
Rodent mites are capable of surviving for long periods without feeding and travelling long distances when seeking hosts.
RSO, by targeting the inflamed synovium, aims to reduce the number and activity of macrophages, thereby relieving joint inflammation and slowing down osteoarthritis progression.
A significant fraction of people presenting with this condition have an underlying hypercoagulable state.
In addition, the incidence of myopericarditis is significantly higher with a smallpox vaccination in comparison with a COVID-19 vaccination.
"Falling into TRAPS – receptor misfolding in the TNF receptor 1-associated periodic fever syndrome".
Biography Early life Jean Paulette Bethke was born on January 6, 1941, to Paul Bethke and Hellen Lind in Windsor, Colorado.
Tongue soreness caused by glossitis is differentiated from burning mouth syndrome, where there is no identifiable change in the appearance of the tongue, and there are no identifiable causes.
In one cohort study, comparing the autopsy reports of 277 hearts of people who died from COVID-19, clinically significant myocarditis was seen in approximately 2% of hearts.
References External links Works by or about Charles Henry Turner at the Internet Archive Charles Henry Turner website by Dr.
Investigation Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) Examination of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) shows elevated numbers of lymphocytes (but usually < 100 cells/μl); elevated CSF protein (but usually <1.5 g/L), normal glucose, elevated IgG index and oligoclonal bands.
The particular feature of EDPs (and EEQs) distinguishing them from EETs is that they derive from omega-3 fatty acids and are suggested to be responsible for some of the beneficial effects attributed to omega-3 fatty acids and omega-3-rich foods such as fish oil.
Types of pericarditis include the following: serous purulent fibrinous caseous hemorrhagic Acute vs.
A negative appendectomy constitutes the removal of a normal appendix with no sign of inflammation in histopathology examination.
1908 Olympics The 1908 Summer Olympics in London were the first Games to include figure skating events in the programme, which were staged in October at the Prince's Club.
Symptoms Common symptoms of chronic actinic dermatitis include burning, itching, swelling, and pain in the affected areas.
In England, he played club cricket for Hampshire Rovers, before making his debut in first-class cricket for Hampshire against Derbyshire at Derby in the 1896 County Championship.
In the initial "formative phase" when the calcium deposits are being formed, people rarely experience any symptoms.
Born in Los Angeles, she was the fourth of five children to Lewis Arquette, an actor and director, and Brenda Olivia "Mardi" (née Nowak), an actress.
See also TNF receptor associated periodic syndrome List of cutaneous conditions References External links Orphanet syndrome Majeed syndrome
A primary challenge to studying the pathogenesis of insulitis and type 1 and 2 diabetes is due to the lack of an agreement in the definition and diagnostic conditions of insulitis.
His paternal grandparents were George Craven, 3rd Earl of Craven and Lady Evelyn Barrington (the second daughter and co-heiress of George Barrington, 7th Viscount Barrington).
After leaving Charterhouse, Furber joined the British Army and was commissioned into the Suffolk Regiment as a second lieutenant in February 1899, before transferring to the King's Shropshire Light Infantry in January 1901.
Causes include injury, inflammatory conditions like rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and genetic conditions like Ehlers–Danlos syndrome.
RASP are formed via a variety of processes, including oxidation of alcohols, polyamine metabolism and lipid peroxidation.
Complications In the past, there have been speculations about possible complications after transient synovitis.
Other factors Other possible factors that may lead to inflamm-aging include insufficient sleep, overnutrition, sensory overload, physical inactivity, altered gut microbiome, impaired intestinal epithelial barrier, and chronic stress occurring in any stage of the individual's life.
In the ladies' event, Syers comfortably won the compulsory figures section, with all five judges placing her first.
However episodes of recurrence form a pattern, with symptom-free periods between attacks lasting for weeks to months.
Allergic rhinitis is more common in some countries than others; in the United States, about 10–30% of adults are affected annually.
IgG4-related ophthalmic disease has been estimated to account for approximately 25% of all cases of proptosis, eyelid swelling and other features of orbital swelling.
Childhood granulomatous periorificial dermatitis (CGPD) is a rare benign granulomatous skin disease of unknown cause.
With Eben Smith as president, the company established branches in Denver, Salt Lake City, El Paso, Texas, and Mexico City.
The advent of the multichannel autoanalyzer in the 1960s and 70s led to an increase in early diagnosis of primary hyperparathyroidism.
Cause Reactive arthritis is characterized by nongonococcal urethritis, conjunctivitis, and arthritis.
Studies have found that omalizumab (Xolair) may be an effective and safe treatment for cold urticaria in patients who do not sufficiently respond to standard treatments.
is recommended as an excellent food as well as medication." Since then, there have been numerous reports in the United States that chicken soup alleviates the symptoms of the common cold.
VKH is more common in Asians, Latinos, Middle Easterners, American Indians, and Mexican Mestizos; it is much less common in Caucasians and in Blacks from sub-Saharan Africa.
He played in trial matches for the Cambridge University cricket team in 1888 but was not picked for any first eleven matches that year.
The miracle needed for beatification was investigated in Warsaw in a diocesan process overseen by Cardinal Józef Glemp from 21 February to 9 June 1986.
Causes Orchitis can be related to epididymitis infection that has spread to the testicles (then called "epididymo-orchitis"), sometimes caused by the sexually transmitted infections chlamydia and gonorrhea.
However, there are obvious similarities between the two conditions, and there is some evidence that they may be closely related.
Alexandrine-Jeanne Le Normant d’Étiolles (10 August 1744 – 15 June 1754) was the daughter of Madame de Pompadour, the maîtresse-en-titre of King Louis XV of France.
NLRP1 There have been reports of patients with activating mutations in NLRP1, where arginine is affected.
Potential involvement in allergy The clinical significance of 5-oxo-ETE has been most frequently studied as a possible mediator of eosinophil-based allergic reactions.
Signs and symptoms Synovitis causes joint tenderness or pain, swelling and hard lumps, called nodules.
During surgery, lysis of the adhesions, drainage of pus, and debridement of the necrotic tissues are done.
Bronchiolitis is the most frequent lower respiratory tract infection and hospitalization in infants worldwide.
Due to the islets of Langerhans being small clusters of cells in the pancreas, it is difficult to study and diagnose insulitis as it requires a pathology report to be taken on donor samples of islets of Langerhans tissue, and as of 2014, there was only histopathological data from ~250 cases.
In 1917, the family moved to Frankfurt where Wilhelm Kolle became director of the Royal Institute for Experimental Therapy (now the Paul Ehrlich Institute).
An isomer of 5-oxo-ETE, 5-oxo-(7E,9E,11Z,14Z)-eicosatetraenoic acid, forms non-enzymatically as a byproduct of hydrolyses of the 5-lipoxgenase metabolite, leukotriene A4.
Red strawberry tongue is where the white coating is lost and a dark red, erythematous surface is revealed, interspaced with the hyperplastic fungiform papillae.
In otitis media, the ear is infected or clogged with fluid behind the ear drum, in the normally air-filled middle-ear space.
These areas are more susceptible to irritation and subsequent infection due to factors that promote skin breakdown such as moisture, friction, and exposure to bodily secretions and excreta such as sweat, urine, or feces.
They are categorized into several different pathological patterns, which are broadly grouped into non-proliferative or proliferative types.
Retro Game Corps In 2020, Crandall created the YouTube channel Retro Game Corps focused on handheld game consoles, especially those for retro gaming and emulation, with content including hardware reviews and guides.
A family history of RA increases the risk around three to five times; as of 2016, it was estimated that genetics may account for 40–65% of cases of seropositive RA, but only around 20% for seronegative RA.
Cause It is a cause of portal hypertension and can cause bowel ischemia sometimes leading to bowel infarction.
Strawberry tongue Strawberry tongue, or raspberry tongue, is glossitis which manifests with hyperplastic (enlarged) fungiform papillae, giving the appearance of a strawberry.
He then taught history and other subjects at a boys’ school for a year and a half before relocating to Leipzig.
Life in the Netherlands After graduation, Dworkin moved to Amsterdam to interview Dutch anarchists in the Provo movement, which used theatrical street happenings to instigate change.
In pre-modern medical usage, it could refer to several dermatological disorders, including conditions now classified as eczema, ringworm (tinea), or other inflammatory or infectious skin eruptions.
Diagnosis Screening for hepatitis D requires testing for anti-HDV antibodies, which indicate past exposure to the virus or current infection.
In 1935, he undertook the puppet-related work of designing Macy's elaborate animated window display, which was shown between Thanksgiving and Christmas.
See also Neonatal onset multisystem inflammatory disease (NOMID) References Further reading Schachner, Lawrence A.; Hansen, Ronald C.
South Melbourne In his debut season (1909), South Melbourne reached the Grand Final but Caldwell missed playing due to a nine-week suspension for striking Carlton's George Bruce in the Preliminary Final.
Footnotes References Crosland, Margaret (2002), Madame de Pompadour: Sex, Culture and Power, Stroud: Sutton Publishing, ISBN 0-7509-2956-1 Mitford, Nancy (1995), Madame de Pompadour, London: Penguin Books, retrieved 3 July 2024 – via Internet Archive
In 1923 she published her article 'Akhenaten and the Hittites' in The Journal of Egyptian Archaeology.
Research Several medications have been studied for the treatment of TNF receptor associated periodic syndrome including etanercept, infliximab, and anakinra.
Posthitis can lead to phimosis, the tightening of the foreskin which makes it difficult to retract over the glans.
Hargrave was operated on for appendicitis but suffered peritonitis afterwards and died in July 1915.
NBTE usually occurs during a hypercoagulable state such as system-wide bacterial infection, or pregnancy, though it is also sometimes seen in patients with venous catheters.
The most common aetiology of acute otitis externa is bacterial infection, while chronic cases are often associated with underlying skin diseases such as eczema or psoriasis.
Although he was held in custody, his testimony against Becker and members of the Lenox Avenue Gang helped convict the five men who were sentenced to death.
Arthur Clark Ball (April 1876 – December 26, 1915) was an American Major League Baseball player from Kentucky.
These include meningitis (inflammation of the protective membranes surrounding the brain), epidural abscess (abscess between the skull and outer membrane of the brain), dural venous thrombophlebitis (inflammation of the venous structures of the brain), or brain abscess.
Variable vessel vasculitis Variable vessel vasculitis (VVV) is a kind of vasculitis that may impact vessels of all sizes (small, medium, and large) and any type (arteries, veins, and capillaries), with no particular type of vessel being predominantly affected.
The mean age of those experiencing ischemic colitis after a glycerin enema was 70 years, and the mean time to ischemic colitis onset was 5.5 hours after enema administration.
Ultrasound findings suggestive of acute cholecystitis include gallstones, pericholecystic fluid (fluid surrounding the gallbladder), gallbladder wall thickening (wall thickness over 3 mm), dilation of the bile duct, and sonographic Murphy's sign.
The story concerns several spirit children of God who move from the pre-existence, to mortal life, to their eternal reward, interacting with each other at each step.
Currently the Amazon basin and low income regions of Asia and Africa have high rates of HDV, owing to concurrently high rates of HBV.
He served in the United States Army as a private in the Quartermaster Corps from March 22, 1944, to December 4, 1944.
Reimann, Periodic Disease: a probable syndrome including periodic fever, benign paroxysmal peritonitis, cyclic neutropenia and intermittent arthralgia.
Inflammaging (also known as inflamm-aging or inflamm-ageing) is a chronic, sterile, low-grade inflammation that develops with advanced age, in the absence of overt infection, and may contribute to clinical manifestations of other age-related pathologies.
It is reasonable to perform spirometry every one or two years to follow how well a person's asthma is controlled.
A diet of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and low-fat meat and dairy products, avoiding foods with high levels of refined sugars and salt is recommended.
Stones in the common bile duct can be removed before surgery by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) or during surgery.
Taiwan Exhibition In 1927, Shiotsuki collaborated with Kinichiro Ishikawa, Gobara Koto, and Seigai Kinoshita to establish the Taiwan Art Exhibition (commonly known as "Tai-ten"), and personally participated in the review of the exhibited works.
Early life and college McGregor was a multi-sport athlete at Lakewood High School in Lakewood, Colorado, before enrolling at Colorado State University (CSU) to play college football for the Colorado State Rams as a tight end.
Adler and his mother lost the family business, and survived off his father's Social Security benefits for widows and minors.
Willis's follow-up was "Betty and Dupree", another "stroll" song and a similar "old standard", which also did well.
The Amiga Library Disks The Amiga Library Disks – colloquially referred to as Fish Disks (a term coined by Perry Kivolowitz at a Jersey Amiga User Group meeting) – had a reach that included most all Amiga users in the world.
Facial dermatoses N-95 masks being used in the hospital should be first tested for fit, in order to ensure equitable distribution of pressure across the face.
John Richard Whiteley (28 December 1943 – 26 June 2005) was an English presenter and journalist, best known for his 23 years as host of the game show Countdown.
Red blood transfusions could also be done for patients with severe congenital dyserythropoietic anemia (CDA).
Later life By the late 1960s Doel was running the business virtually single handed, Marks having died and Cohen too elderly to oversee day-to-day operations.
Many of the symptoms historically described as tetter—such as itchy, circular or scaly lesions and occasional blistering—are consistent with tinea corporis (ringworm), which presents as an itchy, ring-shaped rash with scaling borders.
The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has currently approved two RSV vaccines for adults ages 60 and older, Arexvy (GSK plc) and Abrysvo (Pfizer).
References External links Ratko Kacian at Reprezentacija.rs (in Serbian) Ratko Kacian at WorldFootball.net Ratko Kacian at National-Football-Teams.com Ratko Kacian at EU-Football.info Ratko Kacian at Olympedia
Renal disorder: More than 0.5 g per day protein in urine or cellular casts seen in urine under a microscope; sensitivity = 51%; specificity = 94%.
External links Media related to Asbury Latimer at Wikimedia Commons Works by or about Asbury Latimer at the Internet Archive Asbury Churchwell Latimer, late a senator from South Carolina, Memorial addresses delivered in the House of Representatives and Senate frontispiece 1909 Image: Asbury C.
Her remains were buried at Campo Verano on 24 November and were relocated on 9 July 1953 to the order's motherhouse at 18 Via Machiavelli.
It is likely that these diseases are multifactorial, with genes that make people susceptible to these diseases, but they require an additional environmental factor to trigger the disease.
This is a buffered mixture of aluminium sulfate and acetic acid, and is available without prescription in the United States.
Melville Amasa Scovell (February 26, 1855 – August 15, 1912) was an American academic from New Jersey.
Since reactive arthritis cannot be healed as such, affected people are forced to a continuous topical treatment – otherwise they will again note first symptoms after three to four days without it.
Cremean represented Dandenong for one term, until Groves regained the seat for the United Australia Party at the election in 1932.
HEV is a major cause of illness and of death in the developing world and disproportionate cause of deaths among pregnant women.
Relopathies (NFkBopathies) It has been proven that NF-κB (nuclear factor κB) is overactivated in cells of the gut mucosa of patients with inflammatory bowel diseases, including Crohn's disease (CD), which is a well known AID.
Cryopyrin-associated periodic syndrome (CAPS) is a group of rare, heterogeneous autoinflammatory disease characterized by interleukin 1β-mediated systemic inflammation and clinical symptoms involving skin, joints, central nervous system, and eyes.
Starting around 1900 he and Harry Vallon operated various stuss games as well as an opium den on Pell Street and a popular poker room at the corner of 42nd Street and Sixth Avenue which was often frequented by Becker and other police officials (and thus never subject to police raids).
Pathophysiology The development and pathophysiology of SLK is not well understood, but appears to involve microtrauma of keratoconjunctival surfaces.
The Juma Mosque of Derbent is a Shi'ite Friday mosque and madrasa in the center of Old Derbent in the Republic of Dagestan in present-day Russia.
In 2024, The Council of Europe's Committee for the Prevention of Torture toured the prisons of Ireland, assessing the living conditions onsite.
The prison, which is operated by the Ministry of Justice, is one of seven detention centres that carry out executions in Japan.
Justice Action is regularly invited to present at conferences in Australia and internationally on topics including prison reform, prisoners' rights, and mental health policy.
Additionally, some states require at least one member to be an ex-convict, and some require corrections experience, but there are no nation-wide parole board qualifications.
Of the hundred or so other interments in the monastery (including Archbishop Gennady), their remains were lost and their whereabouts are still unknown.
The monastery's church, decorated with highly polished marble, was damaged by the horses of Napoleon's army which was based in the complex.
In 1985, perestroika and the new increase in tattoo parlours made tattooing fashionable, and further diluted the status of tattoos as a solely criminal attribute.
They may be entirely dedicated to a specific group of prisoners, such as women or children, or be divided into separate sections for each group.
After the Ottoman conquest of Bulgaria, the monastery was plundered and burned several times by the Turks and eventually entirely destroyed.
The quarterly, eight page, newspaper was launched in the House of Commons and broadcast on BBC Breakfast from Grendon Prison.
The security tarp made by Wulsin to direct broken glass back inside the building was blue and white, and painted with the hot air balloon logo of the local Parque Patricios soccer team Huracan.
Architecture The mosque complex consists of the main mosque, madrasa, and living quarters for the clergy.
Sir Stephen Tumim (15 August 1930 – 8 December 2003) was an English jurist, and Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Prisons from 1987 to 1995.
Percival Leonard Ashford (5 June 1927 – 11 October 1998) was Chaplain-General of Prisons from 1981 to 1985.
As of 2012, operational local prisons in England and Wales for female prisoners are: Bronzefield Eastwood Park Foston Hall Holloway New Hall.
Widespread demonstrations continued on 26 June, with a general strike being declared throughout the West Bank.
West Carroll Parish Detention Center was a parish jail in West Carroll Parish, Louisiana == References ==
Pharmacy of late cistercian herbalist Simon Ašič has become an important reminder of the gardening that was a traditional occupancy of the monks.
These prisoners spent four days onboard the troop transport ship "Bretagne" before arriving at the harbor in Svolvær where they were then moved by train to Oslo.
Makindye Prison is a Uganda government state-run prison which became notorious for extrajudicial killings and execution of government opponents during the time of Ugandan dictator, Idi Amin.
Modernisation and wing renaming In 2023, as part of an ongoing modernisation programme at HM Prison La Moye, the prison’s original A–G wings were demolished.
Afraid of inflicting divine wrath, Ivan III fled the monastery and Novgorod altogether, leaving his staff as a curiosity to local monks.
During the July Monarchy, the "April insurgees" were also detained there, and some managed to escape through a tunnel.
A number of memorials to the war were added to the cathedral, notably the painting The Passing of Eleanor by Frank Salisbury (stolen 1973) and the reglazing of the main west window, dedicated in 1925.
In 1864, the Emperor of Russia Tsar Alexander II passed a decree ordering that the monastery be closed.
Bogambara Prison was closed on 1 January 2014, at which time the property and all related assets were transferred to the government of Sri Lanka.
Inmates use metal cutting lathes, shears, bending machines, straight cutting machines, assembly machines, flange straightening machines, arc welding generators, sewing machines, and other equipment.
Prison slang can be found in other written forms such as diaries, letters, tattoos, ballads, songs, and poems.
"The existence of prison plastic surgery programs is America’s dirty little secret." In San Quentin prison, California, the prison's chief medical doctor Dr.
It is also known as the Cabinetkeller, which is the origin of the use of the term Kabinett as a quality description of German wine.
During the Soviet Union, the church was made into a stonemasonry but it was damaged during the Second World War and then made into a warehouse before being transformed into a theatre.
See also Human rights in North Korea Kaechon concentration camp References External links Committee for Human Rights in North Korea: The Hidden Gulag Archived 2019-12-14 at the Wayback Machine - Overview of North Korean prison camps with testimonies and satellite photographs
It also joined the Federation of Civil Servants, and when in 1969 that became the Joint Organisation of State Employees (VTY), it became indirectly affiliated to the SAK's successor, the Central Organisation of Finnish Trade Unions.
A few years later, an English architect, DH Matthews, assisted in the restoration of the building, which included the rebuilding of one of its wood and stone walls (a characteristic style of Aksumite architecture).
In 1902 white prisoners were moved into a new building, called the Industrial Breakwater Prison, which remains today.
The Borstal Institute for juveniles now called The Senior Correctional Centre is a juvenile correction institute under the Ghana Prisons Service (GPS).
This form of violence is often rationalized within prison subcultures as necessary for survival and respect.
And in fact, as I reflected, the art of Egypt and Syria and Byzantium was developing on similar lines to European art when these panels were being cut.
In 1784 the Brygidki building was turned into a prison, where death sentences would be carried out on a regular basis until the 1980s.
The works began in 1610, and the master of masonry Martínez de Encabo promised to complete the church and the convent in four years.
In addition to the hostages, there were many who were imprisoned for minor acts of resistance, such as the demolition of posters or illegal newspapers, or for fighting with German soldiers.
See also History of 16th century early modern domes References External links St Varlaam Monastery on firebirdvideos.com
The Welikada Prison Massacre took place during the 1983 Black July pogrom against Sri Lankan Tamil minority in Colombo, Sri Lanka.
The monastic buildings were put to various secular uses — barracks, prison, school — and were totally destroyed in World War II except for the freestanding gateway.
2022 escape After staging a self-immolation in his cell on 3 May 2022, Thabo Bester escaped from the Mangaung Correctional Center with the apparent help of the guards.
The Anarchist Black Cross (ABC), formerly the Anarchist Red Cross, is an international network of anarchist organizations that supports political prisoners.
According to historian Golnar Nikpour, the museum erases the leftist and ethnic liberation victims of the prison and ignores the prison's continued operation under the Islamic Republic, instead favouring an Islamist narrative.
At the moment it is the only prison operating in Helsinki proper after the Katajanokka prison was converted to a hotel and its inmates transferred to a new prison in Vantaa, a suburban municipality.
Operations include jail operations, education, substance abuse treatment program, canine unit, field crops, and regional maintenance.
The Miraflores Women's Penitentiary Center (Spanish: Centro Penitenciario Femenino de Miraflores) is a women's prison in the Miraflores district of La Paz, Bolivia.
A large portion of the fort was retrofitted to hold ammunition, and the flooring planks were nailed in with wooden nails to prevent explosions caused by soldiers' hobnail boots striking metal nails.
As of September 2015 the prison was overcrowded with a capacity for 3,685 inmates but a population of 4,091.
They were transported to The Cape to work on the construction of the breakwater which would allow the harbour which is now the Victoria & Alfred Waterfront to be built.
Prison slang has existed as long as there have been crime and prisons; in Charles Dickens' time it was known as "thieves' cant".
The bishopric appears to have been suffragan of the Archbishop of York (with intermittent control exercised by the Archbishop of Hamburg-Bremen) until the creation of the Archbishopric of Trondheim (Niðaros) in 1152.
The 1990s witnessed a decline in prison populations nationwide, accompanied by an increased focus on drug rehabilitation and reintegration programs.
In 2024, the prison began transferring inmates to a new 2.4-hectare facility in Barangay Payatas from its original premises in Barangay Kamuning.
The National Prison Department (DEPEN, Departamento Penitenciário Nacional in Portuguese) is the Brazilian government agency responsible for the security and administration of the Brazil federal prison system (Sistema Penitenciário Federal).
See also Brandvlei Correctional Centre Drakenstein Correctional Centre Kgosi Mampuru II Correctional Centre Pollsmoor Prison Moses Sithole serial killer Westville Prison == References ==
The 60 inmates involved were initially held in "lockdown" under prison rule 36 which meant the governor had to visit each one every day.
Cloverhill Prison (Irish: Príosún Chnoc na Seamar), officially Cloverhill Remand Prison, is a remand prison in Dublin, Ireland.
A new community of canonesses, belonging to the Congrégation des Sacrés Coeurs de Marie et de Jésus de l'Adoration Perpétuelle, was established, and continues, in the old buildings with the intention of commemorating the dead in perpetuity.
A brief written in 1723–1724, seeking £5,775, notes a great crack in the south wall, that the north wall was eighteen inches from vertical, and that the roof timbers were decayed to the point of danger.
17th–18th centuries In 1615 the Bernardians were allowed by the King of Poland, Sigismund III Vasa, to establish a monastery in Mozyr.
Speciality Inmate crews supervised by Custody and Corrections Officers also help the local communities by providing yard work at senior centers, paint schools (during summer when the children are absent), and other services in the vicinity of the facility.
ISBN 1-84158-254-9 External links St Magnus Cathedral Website Orkney Heritage website A detailed history of St Magnus Cathedral Archived 21 June 2017 at the Wayback Machine The Founding of St Magnus Cathedral Archived 30 January 2021 at the Wayback Machine
Escobar Mejía was denied bond on April 15, when he was "still well," by immigration judge Lee O'Connor, which is credited as resulting in his death.
Two years later, the Pskov veche supported his establishment by granting a large plot of land to the monks.
In some prisons, packets of mackerel fish or "macks" has also taken prominence as a currency, as it is priced closely with one US dollar, and maintains stability.
Now that the city boasts of having around 20 million inhabitants, the same CPK along with District Jail Malir is accommodating more than half of the entire Prison Population in the province of Sindh.
Bambocci was Chief Marketing Officer and Executive Vice President, and Matthew Caesar was Senior Vice President of Engineering and Development.
Between the prison and Westville proper is the complex housing the prison's wardens and other staff.
Manchester Short Term Holding Facility is managed by security firm Mitie on behalf of the Home Office.
Such restrictions that can be placed include limitations on the times when and places where such business can be conducted, but none of these restrictions can simply be placed without reason or simply arbitrarily.
From it a number of other foundations were made: Schönau Abbey near Heidelberg in 1142; Otterberg Abbey in the Palatinate in 1144; Gottesthal Abbey near Liège in 1155; and Arnsburg Abbey in the Wetterau in 1174.
It holds roughly 18,000 prisoners yearly making it China's second largest prison and Anhui Province's largest prison.
Similarly, the grand hospital of Bern (today the citizens' hospital) built from 1734 to 1742 combined an asylum, orphanage, and house of correction (Spinnstube).
Prison populations are largely from poor minority communities that experience greater rates of chronic illness, substance abuse, and mental illness than the general population.
Background In 1993, a significant breakthrough in the Israeli–Palestinian peace process occurred with the signing of the Oslo I Accord and launching of the Oslo Accords peace talks.
In particular, it was noted that in the Iziaslav camp in the last year there were recorded cases of images and beating of weak teenagers, confiscation of food, belongings, and money from them by the colony workers.
Outcomes Overall, the action did not achieve its objectives of improving conditions within the prison or gaining access to legal counsel.
The detention facility building that Kegans uses first opened in February 1995 as a place to house nonviolent offenders in order to relieve prison overcrowding.
On 17 November, the United Nations Security Council passed a version of the 20-point peace plan authored by the US, with Russia and China abstaining from the vote.
Vojlovica Monastery was declared Monument of Culture of Exceptional Importance in 1990, and it is protected by Republic of Serbia.
In April 2010, the lower rooms were closed, and only the upper storey remained, accommodating some 30–40 people.
Nicole Austin-Hillery, US program director at Human Rights Watch, stated: "Despite outbreaks of Covid-19 in US immigration detention centers and government travel restrictions the world over, the US has continued deportations with little regard for the consequences.
Operating under the national umbrella, Canadian Association of Elizabeth Fry Societies are branched off into five segments: Atlantic, Quebec, Ontario, Prairies and Pacific.
Reporting Early prison newspapers were typically "devoted to inmate activities: sports events, movies and other entertainment, personal items, blood banks, school and organizational activities, hobbies, and the like".
The Sinhala prisoners were assisted by prison authorities in killing the Tamil inmates, with reports of cell doors being left open on purpose.
For that reason, from the very first issue, the newspaper adopted the mission: ‘a voice for prisoners’.
(1954), Relatório da Actividade do Ministério no ano de 1953 (in Portuguese), Lisbon, Portugal{{citation}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) Ministério das Obras Públicas, ed.
Even in the pre-apartheid era, racial factors played a major role, with white prisoners living in better conditions and receiving better treatment than their black counterparts.
The majority of defendants are usually sentenced to intermittent confinement for minor offenses, but occasionally persons convicted of more serious crimes, such as sex offenses, may be allowed to serve an intermittent confinement sentence.
Notable former prisoners During the Apartheid era, many political activists were imprisoned for campaigning against the government.
The RCMP were criticized by the Supreme Court for failing to protect Ryan from an abusive husband, however both the husband and the RCMP denied the reported abuse.
Prisons Sichuan Provincial Women's Prison See also Penal system in China References External links Sichuan Provincial Prison Administrative Bureau (in Chinese)
WPBP also partners with local organizations, including service learning courses for high school and university students.
The Dicalced Franciscans, or gilitos, arrived in this city in the middle of the 16th century, and established it in 1557 in the vicinity of the Ermita de la Virgen de la Rosa.
The successful life of the monastery was hampered by Ottoman raids, and was burned and looted twice.
Officers were also upset that the prisoners were being provided with free education when training for the officers was so expensive.
Savva Krypetsky, a Serbian monk from Mount Athos, in what was then described as an impracticable mire.
The process uses external peer reviews to determine whether correctional institutions meet national standards in their provision of health services.
These patents describe the ability to access the cost of a call and deduct the cost of the call from the user's account balance in near real time.
de Silva - Lanka Sama Samaja Party leader, anti-war movement leader during World War II and later a Member of Parliament.
These vehicles must be highly protected and may feature bars or wire mesh over the windows, bulletproof glass, segregated prisoner compartments, and additional seating for escorting officers.
"The Dungeons of Old Paris: Being the Story and Romance of the Most Celebrated Prisons of the Monarchy and the Revolution".
The nave of the abbey church was demolished, but the choir and transept remained to be used for grain storage.
Actual population See also Comayagua prison fire Honduras portal Law portal References External links Smith-Spark, Lauren.
As of November 8th, 2022 the dairy farm operations closed with the shipment of milking cows and heifers to New Holland Sales Stable dairy cow auction in Pennsylvania.
A new administration block was also opened during the same period and dedicated to Len Norman, former Minister for Home Affairs in the States of Jersey.
Nicolas Hovanesian and Mohammed Karim filed complaints of discrimination in 2015 against the institution.
It was established in the early 15th century by a Rostov monk who brought with him an icon of St Nicholas from the Italian city of Bari (which holds the relics of that saint).
The largest problem noted is that officers in the prison were not properly trained or fully staffed.
It paid for the travel expenses of those who traveled to distant trials to support the political dissenters.
Fifteen staff members were initially placed on leave: ten were directly employed by Mid-State, while the other five were employed by Marcy Correctional Facility and were working at Mid-State during the incident.
On 18 August 2009, 160 under-age refugees, who were detained in a single room and sharing the same toilet, started a hunger strike demanding immediate freedom.
After facing public criticism and pushback from Seattle Books to Prisoners, the Washington DOC partially backed down and allowed shipments from four BTP programs to continue.
It is now shown in a binge block after On Patrol: Live on Sunday nights on Reelz Reappearing Corrections Personnel Sergeant Catherine Gorton appeared in multiple segments involving the Multnomah County Justice Center in Portland, Oregon.
In 1918, the monastery was disbanded by the Bolsheviks who plundered more than five poods (2,600 troy ounces) of gold in the monastery sacristy and had its Neoclassical belltower disfigured.
On the 26th of December 2000 Archbishop Vikentius consecrated the new throne and the entire church in the name of the Intercession of the Most Holy Mother of God.
History Guvernadurica, the oldest prison in Cetinje, did not have doors, and the cave had a permanent temperature of 0 °C throughout the year.
In the 18th century, the abbey fell into disrepair, but was restored by Evgeny Bolkhovitinov, a bishop best known for his friendship with Gavriil Derzhavin and the latter's poems dedicated to him.
Ebrach Abbey (German: Kloster Ebrach) is a former Cistercian monastery in Ebrach in Oberfranken, Bavaria, Germany, and the site of a young offenders' institution.
The church assumed its present appearance beginning in the 17th century and is best known for its twin belfries shaped like censers.
Select from menu: prison population total, prison population rate, percentage of pre-trial detainees / remand prisoners within the prison population, percentage of female prisoners within the prison population, percentage of foreign prisoners within the prison population and occupancy rate.
The idea is that they will eventually excrete all the contents of their digestive system, and lacking any toilet, they will be unable to dispose of it and thereby prevent prison officials from acquiring the evidence.
See also Evin Prison Prison 209 Heshmatiyeh Prison Gohardasht Prison Towhid Prison External links Human Rights Watch report on illegal detention centers in Iran ECOI human rights report about prison conditions in Iran
The JLM order form lists the cost to order the various publications, as well as instructions on how to place an order.
He established a system of internal self-rule called the "Mutual Welfare League" within the prison and quickly won enthusiastic support from both guards and prisoners.
Monasterio de la Victoria is a former monastery located in El Puerto de Santa María, province of Cádiz, southern Spain.
The facility was opened in 1993 and has a daily working population of 1,141 inmates, held at a range of security levels.
Ringerike prison is a large, closed high-security institution located in the Southern Region in the Norwegian Correctional Services, with police custody, long-term and high risk prisoners as the primary groups.
The churches were meticulously restored in the early 21st century under the supervision of Leonid Krasnorechyev and Ninel Kuzmina.
Reception GTL came under scrutiny for entering into concession contracts with local prisons in order to have a monopoly on the provision of inmate telecom.
In Hong Kong, those detained by police and other agencies were once placed on open-ended lorries or prisoner carriers with two rows on benches.
Of particular note are the Worcester Antiphoner (the only book of its kind to survive the Reformation), the will of King John, and a 1225 copy of Magna Carta.
The low Norman tower roof was demolished and a new, much higher, broached spire was raised, sheathed in lead.
Since the 18th century, Worcester Cathedral Choir has taken part in the Three Choirs Festival, the oldest music festival in the world.
Sing Sing Museum or the Sing Sing Prison Museum is a proposed museum in the original power house at the northern end of Sing Sing prison in New York state.
Later Lefortovo was an infamous KGB prison and interrogation site (called an "investigative isolator", or СИЗО: следственный изолятор) for political prisoners.
In November 2009, the Second People's Court of Beijing opened a trial and pronounced that Zang Tianshuo was convicted of aggravating and was sentenced to six years in prison.
Organization John Howard society offices and branches can be found in sixty communities across Canada, in all of the provinces and the Northwest Territories.
Post-WWII Guido Leto, Italian police official, head of the OVRA, the secret police of the Fascist regime, from 1938 to 1945.
In Australia, it works in conjunction with other community groups and peak bodies such as the New South Wales Council of Social Services, the New South Wales Teachers Federation, and is a member of the Community Justice Coalition, an Australian coalition dedicated to justice and prison reform.
Most of them are now the property of the state of Hesse and are run by the Hessische Staatsweingüter GmbH Kloster Eberbach, which manages the largest connected area of wine production in Germany, comprising vineyards on the slopes of the Rhine Valley and on the Hessische Bergstrasse.
Board of directors In 2019, Deb Alderson was Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Jeffrey Haidinger was President and Chief Operating Officer (COO), Steve Yow was Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Anthony R.
Joe Kegans Intermediate Sanctions Facility is an Intermediate Sanctions facility of the Texas Department of Criminal Justice located along the northeast edge of Downtown Houston, Texas.
A figure of the "Man of Sorrows" by the sculptor Erhart Küng, master of works at the Berner Münster, formerly belonging to the charterhouse, is today kept in the Historisches Museum Bern.
History This monastery was founded in the last third of the 14th century by The Venerable Monk Abraham of Galich, disciple of Saint Sergius of Radonezh (after having founded a monastery on the shores of Lake Galich, dedicated to the Dormition of the Mother of God).
Other charitable organizations, such as Christian Orthodox organizations that collected clothing and other items, passed those donations onto the Aid Fund for redistribution.
"Ducking" is a prison slang term for a technique through which prisoners modify the behavior of correctional officers and other prison staff members using manipulation and coercion.
It is thought that Joyce Mitchell and Gene Palmer, employees of the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, New York, were perhaps ducked by Richard Matt and David Sweat in the 2015 Clinton Correctional Facility escape.
2002 The first Israeli raid on Addameer offices was conducted in 2002, during the Israeli invasion of Ramallah in that year.
External links Media related to Prison Sainte-Pélagie at Wikimedia Commons Media related to Rue de la Clef (Paris) at Wikimedia Commons Media related to Rue du Puits-de-l'Ermite (Paris) at Wikimedia Commons
A Benedictine monastery was established here in the 6th century, possibly replacing an earlier community.
In 1934 the cathedral was closed, and in 1937 the Mogilev diocese was dismissed (it was reinstalled only in 1989).
While the monastery building still survives as a prison, the church was destroyed in 1970 on the order of Soviet authorities.
History Central Jail Karachi was established in the year 1899 for 591 prisoners while population of a newly growing city of Karachi was a little more than around hundred thousand people.
Peterhead already had a reputation for disturbances with a riot the previous year, earning it the nickname among inmates as the "Hate Factory" or "Scottish Alcatraz".
Following the saint's death in 1556, the monastery grew on the salt trade with Western Europe and developed into one of the foremost centres of Christianity in the Russian North.
Keith of the Nova Scotia Supreme Court had struck down the law allowing the practice, saying that it violated the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and discriminates against women, and had called on Parliament to draft new legislation.
For the United States, see Incarceration in the United States § Security levels For Canada, see Correctional Service of Canada § Security classification of offenders For other prison systems, see Prison § Security levels See also Maximum Security (disambiguation)
Maximum security prisons and supermax prisons are grades of high security level used by prison systems in various countries, which pose a higher level of security to prevent prisoners from escaping and/or doing harm to other inmates or security guards.
Alexius (which he had built) to the Cathedral of the Dormition and then to another church in Moscow.
Citizens United for Rehabilitation of Errants (CURE) is a United States prisoner support and prison reform organization that was founded by Charles and Pauline Sullivan in San Antonio, Texas, on January 2, 1972.
In addition the establishment serves the Tribunal, the Judiciary of Surveillance (Ufficio di Sorveglianza) and UEPE.
It was first used as a prison by the Abbot, a powerful churchman who held considerable power over the precincts and sanctuary.
In 2010, Guo Jingyi, the former inspector of the Department of Treaty and Law of the Ministry of Commerce, was imprisoned in the Beijing No.
The Abbey of Saint Victor was later affected during the fifth century by the Semipelagian heresy, which began with some of Cassian's writings.
These comprise the church, with its beautiful twin towers and western façade, and portions of the cloisters and library, the contents of which were removed to Rouen when the abbey was dissolved.
Two sergeants at Mid-State were each charged with second-degree manslaughter after being accused of doing nothing to stop the assaults while supervising the area where Nantawi was beat to death.
In 2015, in preparation for the celebration of Derbent's 2,000th anniversary, restoration work was done on the mosque.
In 2025, the Estonian justice minister reported Viru Prison would remain open, as "Society needs prison buildings".
The infrastructure in poor condition with generally no water, light or ventilation in the cells according to a 2014 report by United Nations Special Rapporteur Juan E.
The consistory granted a second priest to the church in 1613 because of the size of the congregation.
Prison visitation, in which someone held in prison is allowed to meet non-prisoners, is allowed in many jurisdictions, although rules differ by jurisdiction and it may be considered either a privilege or a right.
An attempt at formulation might be: The prisoner will be hanged next week and the date (of the hanging) will not be deducible the night before from the assumption that the hanging will occur during the week.
In the early XVII century the monastery was attacked by the Swedish and then Russian forces, fires significantly damaged the buildings.
Between 1996 and 1998 he was principal of St Edmund Hall, Oxford, leaving amidst some controversy (he was popular with students, less so with academic colleagues).
As decoration Nowadays, stockade walls are often used as garden fencing, made of finished planks more useful for privacy fencing and more decoration than security.
The term can also refer to a prison inmate who is representing themselves in legal matters relating to their sentence.
For every instance of ill-temper, disrespect, bad language, any outbreak of any sort or kind, so many - a very large number in proportion to her receipts - are deducted.
Abune Mathias, Patriarch of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church, has claimed that several churches were burned during the Tigray War, including Debre Damo.
It is north of Bizet and northwest of Adigrat in the Central Zone, Tigray, close to the border with Eritrea.
The minimum security site was opened in 1961 and currently has the capacity to house 201 inmates in five residential style units.
In keeping with the anarchist cultural roots of the concept, each group is autonomous though they frequently collaborate on common challenges, especially prison book restrictions and book bans.
He served under successive Conservative Home Secretaries (not all of them sympathetic to his views), until Michael Howard declined to renew his contract in 1995, and Sir David Ramsbotham was appointed.
A closed prison has more staff and control than an open prison and has stricter rules about money, telephone calls, visits, etc.
American chapters responded to increased government crackdown on radicals following the 1960s counterculture, in which activists were entrapped and imprisoned during the Federal Bureau of Investigation's COINTELPRO program.
After World War I when Poland regained its independence, the church and monastery were returned to the Catholic Church.
A painting by Vasily Vereshchagin shows Davout desecrating the cathedral, using the sanctuary itself as his office.
During the apartheid era, cultural norms afforded the subjectivity of guilt to the assessment of the whites, which led to Black South Africans being adversely affected.
Consequently, there are four distinctive areas of the prison which have been set aside for each category of inmate.
History It was founded in 1787 as the Philadelphia Society for Alleviating the Miseries of Public Prisons, a name which it retained for 100 years.
The site was later purchased by surviving family members of the aristocracy who were buried in the common graves of the site.
Munkholmen (Norwegian: Monk's islet) is an islet in Trondheim Municipality in Trøndelag county, Norway.
History Later sources claim that the convent occupies the site of the original Alekseyevsky (Alexis) Convent, the oldest nunnery in Moscow.
The building was built by Hugh Carfrae, a former soldier in the Queen's Rangers, the regiment formerly commanded by John Graves Simcoe, who was then the Governor of Upper Canada.
In January 2018, Boeing unveiled a prototype of a cargo drone for up to 500 lb (227 kg) payloads, an electric flying testbed that completed flight tests at the Boeing Research & Technology research center in Missouri.
However, while diffuse reflectivity remains confined to the incident plane (the plane given by the incident beam and the surface normal), GISAS explores the whole scattering from the surface in all directions, typically utilizing an area detector.
The study has demonstrated that REMS T-score is an effective parameter for the prediction of the occurrence of fragility fractures, leading the authors to positive conclusions about the effectiveness of REMS technology in the identification of patients at risk for osteoporotic fracture.
See also Vector-based graphical user interface Resolution independence References External links The Economist 2012 article about ZUI
To date, there are two main approaches used by scientists to quantitate, or establish the concentration, of nucleic acids (such as DNA or RNA) in a solution.
By the 15th symposium, major awards were given out as part of the program of the Symposium, including the Meggers Memorial Award, the Hassler Award in Applied Spectroscopy, and the Anachem Award.
OPRM1 knockout mice were used to determine the relative contribution of MOR activation to tapentadol and morphine induced analgesia.
A 2010 paper in science journal Nature credited Foldit's 57,000 players with providing useful results that matched or outperformed algorithmically computed solutions.
A subsequent drop of an electron to a lower energy level can release a photon, causing a possibly coloured glow.
Double Immunodiffusion (Ouchterlony Technique) This method involves both antigen and antibody diffusing through the gel from separate wells, forming precipitation lines where they meet and react.
While the window scrolling behavior with caret navigation disabled (the default) is similar to that suggested for Scroll Lock, enabling caret navigation will enable a cursor scrolling behavior as if Scroll Lock were disabled.
For this coupling to occur, the frequency of the incident wave must be equal to the precession frequency of the magnetization (Larmor frequency) and the polarization of the wave must match the orientation of the magnetization.
The small amount of 'cross hybridization' shown is typical, and is considered in the process of interpreting the final results.
Plasticity is the capacity of a user interface to withstand variations of both the system's physical characteristics and the environment while preserving usability.
A disadvantage of EMCD in its original incarnation is its requirement of crystalline materials with a thickness and orientation that just precisely gives the correct 90 degree phase shift needed for EMCD.
Progressive disclosure is an interaction design pattern used to make applications easier to learn and less error-prone.
Both are towed a sufficient distance (about two ship lengths) away from the ship to allow them to collect data without being affected by the ship's magnetic properties.
In DIA spectra therefore the direct relation between a precursor ion and its fragment ions is lost since the fragment ions in DIA spectra may potentially result from multiple precursor ions (any precursor ion present in the m/z range from which the DIA spectrum was derived).
These shrines are of significant cultural and spiritual value to the Japanese people, but every twenty years since the time of Emperor Temmu in the 7th century C.E.
There is a perception that IVR is adopted because it allows companies to save money and allow the hiring of fewer employees to answer the phone.
Constant Supersaturation Bioreactor The "constant supersaturation method" also known as "constant composition", is based in the consumption and successive replacement of the ions that are deposited to form apatitic structures onto the tissue under evaluation.
Besides photosynthetic bacterioplankton, non-photosynthetic bacterioplankton can also be enumerated by flow cytometry.
Windows and macOS support a single clipboard transaction; however, Linux desktops generally provide a full history of clipboard transactions (sometimes called a kill ring) to the user, allowing them to store several pieces of information at once before retrieving them on demand.
Common semiconductor-based detectors include germanium, cadmium telluride, and cadmium zinc telluride.
Gold Nanoparticles (Au) Gold is the most widely used plasmonic metal in biomedical applications owing to its superior chemical stability and biocompatibility.
Mass-analyzed ion kinetic-energy spectrometry (MIKES) is a mass spectrometry technique by which mass spectra are obtained from a sector instrument that incorporates at least one magnetic sector plus one electric sector in reverse geometry (the beam first enters the magnetic sector).
To avoid being carried into the surrounding pool of water, the subject must walk to keep pace with the disk.
Thus, the sample is applied to the column in a buffer which is highly polar, which drives an association of hydrophobic patches on the analyte with the stationary phase.
Studies using diazepam with the hot plate test showed that diazepam modified the behavioral structure of the pain response not from pain modulation but rather by reducing anxiety levels.
Applications investigated at ARL included the standoff detection of explosive residues and other hazardous materials, plastic landmine discrimination, and material characterization of various metal alloys and polymers.
In iron-sulfur proteins, some other metalloproteins, as well as some solids, g-strain can be substantial.
Many features, such as predictive text, have been adopted by and improved by future generations of keyboard software.
Positronium is a metastable hydrogen-like bound state of an electron and a positron which can exist in two spin states.
Safari 3.0 In Safari 3.0 a triple-click will highlight all text within any single HTML element on the page.
If a clickfocus model such as this is being used, the current application window continues to retain focus and collect input, even if the mouse pointer is over another application window.
Rhizome Navigation is a method of dynamically creating a navigation interface for data systems, such as websites and databases.
Chellappa, 2011: "Tracking and identification via object reflectance using a hyperspectral video camera", In: R.
J.; Grootscholten, P.A.M.: "Industrial Crystallization", Textbook, Delft University Press and Reidel Publishing Company, Delft, The Netherlands, 1984.
References External links Mesowear Equilibrium in Zoo Animals Tooth wear as a tool of reconstructing diet in fossil ungulates EMD - Equus Mesowear Datenbase Morphological and trophic distinction in the dentitions of two early alcelaphine bovids from Langebaanweg (genus Damalacra)
Scrolling Universal Scrolling is a software function within IntelliPoint that allows a scroll wheel to work with programs that do not natively support that method of input.
This hydrophilic bilayer binding is the expected mechanism by which FSLs are able to bind to fibrous membranes such as paper and glass fibres (Fig.
Micro x-ray fluorescence (μXRF) is an elemental analysis technique that relies on the same principles as x-ray fluorescence (XRF).
This technique involves the diffusion of antigens and antibodies through a gel, usually agar, resulting in the formation of a visible precipitate when they interact.
The term host cell reactivation or HCR was first used to describe the survival of UV-irradiated bacteriophages, that were transfected to UV-pretreated cells.
In particular, adherent mammalian cell lines and primary cell cultures show very high transfection rates.
Pierre Janssen K Michael Kasha Alfred Kastler Gustav Kirchhoff Harry Kroto L Willis Eugene Lamb George Downing Liveing (1827–1924) Norman Lockyer Derek Long Hendrik Lorentz Theodore Lyman M Alfred Maddock Gary E.
An analysis of fish genomes resulted in significantly different genome sizes when propidium iodide (PI) and DAPI were used, respectively.
Thus the extrapolation can be inaccurate and only an upper limit for the value of the dissociation energy can be obtained.
For instance, an AUI can manage notifications, deciding when to interrupt the user, the kind of warnings, and the level of detail of the messages presented to the user.
During the late 1970s and the 1980s, the EAS was moved from location to location New York City, as attendance continued to expand.
Therefore, researchers adjust the excitation of the objective lens so as to produce an image of the diffraction pattern in the middle of the beam separator and choose the desired spot intensity to image using a contrast aperture inserted there.
Applications Copurification procedures, such as co-immunoprecipitation, are commonly used to analyze interactions between proteins.
The live and recorded interactions permitted communications among the connected spaces, as well as asynchronous participation.
The most explored and useful properties of an NV center include its spin-dependent photoluminescence (which enables measurement of the electronic spin state using optically detected magnetic resonance), and its relatively long spin coherence at room temperature, lasting up to milliseconds.
Arthur Leonard Schawlow Angelo Secchi Kai Siegbahn Manne Siegbahn Richard Smalley Johannes Stark Miriam Michael Stimson (1913–2002), pioneered the KBr disk technique for Infrared spectroscopy of solid compounds.
The difference between the actual value of the solute concentration at the crystallization limit and the theoretical (static) solubility threshold is called supersaturation and is a fundamental factor in crystallization.
A nondispersive infrared sensor (or NDIR sensor) is a simple spectroscopic sensor often used as a gas detector.
Because the polarization of light can influence the signal to background ratio, the ability to control the polarization of light is a very significant improvement and advantage over the synchrotron ARPES.
The method exploits the high resolution offered by synchrotron light sources, which enables the resolution of vibrational fine structure, especially those vibrations that are coupled to the position of the Fe centre(s).
The SDR measurements are generally realized by exploiting an optical multichannel system coupled with a double optical path in the so-called Michelson-cross configuration.
Process of estampage Estampage is typically obtained by pressing wet paper on to the rock face, over which any ink material (usually, coal or Indian ink) is wiped.
This means that the state is unstable and unbound since the potential energy smoothly decreases with the interatomic distance and the atoms repel one another.
See also Frequency drift Frequency deviation Jitter Automatic frequency control Allan variance == References ==
For any of these planes, molecular terms with Λ > 0 always have a state which is symmetric with respect to this reflection and one state that is antisymmetric.
Mass spectrometry analysis can identify precise mass measurements along with the sequencing of peptides that range from 1000–4000 atomic mass units.
Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR), a more complex technology, scans a wide part of the spectrum, measuring many absorbing species simultaneously.
TTA materials are well suited to use in OLEDs due to their low operational voltage, small drop-off in efficiency when increasing brightness, and low cost.
Concept The phrase Wizard of Oz (originally OZ Paradigm) has come into common usage in the fields of experimental psychology, human factors, ergonomics, linguistics, and usability engineering to describe a specific type of testing or iterative design.
Each event, which may have taken a short or long time to accomplish, leaves a context, a deposit of material, on the site.
The criteria for the optimal position of the bone segment are: symmetry with the opposite side, the continuity of the normal bone contours, or the normal volume of an anatomical region (such as the Orbit.
Workflow Data from separate bidimensional slices generated by a CT or MRI scan are uploaded into the LUCAS system.
The investigation stalled until December 1929 when Fred Burke, a member of the Egan's Rats, shot and killed a police officer in St.
The optical depth for a slant path is τ = mτ′, where τ′ refers to a vertical path, m is called the relative airmass, and for a plane-parallel atmosphere it is determined as m = sec θ where θ is the zenith angle corresponding to the given path.
government has fought releasing the list of the estimated 2,500 cases over three decades in which it performed the analysis, which may have led to false convictions.
The effect of increasing the scan rate can be used to measure the rate of interfacial electron transfer and/or the rates of reactions that are coupltransfer.
Symbian Symbian S60 (Series 60), depending on edition, has a built-in clipboard with image and richtext storing support.
Structure The structure of cyclopropyl cyanide has been determined by a variety of experiments, including microwave spectroscopy, rotational spectroscopy and photodissociation.
Wilrich: Reconsideration of the derivation of Most Probable Numbers, their standard deviations, confidence bounds and rarity values.
The resulting dataset is then processed, in order to eliminate image noise, and to enhance the anatomical contours and also the general contrast of the images.
Police Other uses of the signal include the police who sometimes use a recognition signal so that officers in uniform can recognize officers in normal clothing (undercover).
Using mnemonics is limited to entering the underlined character with a single key stroke; for this reason, localized versions of software omit letters with diacritics that need to be input via an extra dead key stroke.
Use Indian ink (usually black-colored) to smear the paper with the dabber, in order to get the impression of the surface.
One limitation of this assay is that there could be inconsistencies with the depth and size of the scratch.
In 2010 the technique was only used in a few countries: the UK, the Netherlands, Poland and New Zealand.
Trend surface analysis, also known as trend surface mapping, is a mathematical technique used in archaeology and environmental sciences such as geology and soil science.
In real materials, the occurrence of surface features will rarely be so regular, but these two examples show the way in which surface miscuts and roughness are manifested in the obtained diffraction patterns.
Accordingly, ALS enables one to determine hydrodynamic properties of a single monodisperse species as opposed to bulk or average measurements on a sample afforded by conventional light scattering.
This organization helped to bring regulation into the field of archaeology and provided consistent training for professional archaeologists.
Implementation Besides setups in multi-purpose facilities, the first dedicated end-station has been built at the PETRA-III storage ring, where this technique is routinely applied.
New applications are in inkjet systems where gas in the ink forms bubbles that degrade print quality, a degassing unit is placed prior to the print head to remove gas and prevent the buildup of bubbles keeping good jetting and print quality.
This process is characterized by short term exposure of the distillate liquid to high temperatures in high vacuum (around 10−4 mmHg) in the distillation column and a small distance between the evaporator and the condenser around 2 cm.
Imaging the fractured surface of a frozen substance allows the interior of the structure to be investigated as illustrated by the picture of a fractured piece of glacier called an iceberg.
The traditional pump-probe experiments usually measure the changes of some optical constants, which might be too complex to obtain the relevant physics.
The information is a blend of sitemaps and RSS feeds and is created using the Information Model (IM) and Biomedical Resource Ontology (BRO).
At a band head the numbers often increase to a limit, or otherwise a series of lines may approach from one side and then reverse at the band head.
Control of texture is extremely important in the making of silicon steel sheet for transformer cores (to reduce magnetic hysteresis) and of aluminium cans (since deep drawing requires extreme and relatively uniform plasticity).
It is difficult to label oligonucleotides to a level high enough to use them as probes for genomic DNA.
Atomic force microscopy Atomic force microscopy is a method which is carried out using an atomic force microscope, which is an instrument that can analyze and characterize samples at the microscopic level.
Depending on the type of sensors employed, sensing floors can measure load (pressure), proximity (to detect, track, and recognize humans), as well as the magnetic field (for detecting metallic objects like robots using magnetometers).
For a pure RNA sample, the A230:260:280 should be around 1:2:1, and for a pure DNA sample, the A230:260:280 should be around 1:1.8:1.
A typical ALS instrument consists of an HPLC/FPLC chromatography system coupled in-line with appropriate light scattering and refractive index detectors.
Spectrometers discriminate the wavelength based on the position the light hits at the detector array allowing the full spectrum to be obtained with a single acquisition.
The experimental study of molecular Rydberg states has been conducted with traditional methods for generations.
To get the complete picture, including intermediate field strengths, we must consider eigenstates which are superpositions of the | F , m F ⟩ {\displaystyle |F,m_{F}\rangle } and | m I , m J ⟩ {\displaystyle |m_{I},m_{J}\rangle } basis states.
"Single step assembly of a gene and entire plasmid from large numbers of oligodeoxyribonucleotides".
Plasmons are the oscillations of free electrons that are the consequence of the formation of a dipole in the material due to electromagnetic waves.
The method involves using low-order polynomials of spatial coordinates to estimate a regular grid of points from scattered observations such as archeological finds or soil survey results.
XPCS is used to study the slow dynamics of various equilibrium and non-equilibrium processes occurring in condensed matter systems.
A mechanical excavator is used to dig down to archaeological features or natural geological deposits and any archaeology is recorded.
Its potential as a research technology became obvious when it was applied to an important research problem where PET studies had been inconclusive, namely the mismatch between oxygen and glucose consumption during sustained visual stimulation.
They can be used during war or can be used to help the police recognize each other during undercover operations.
In addition, MIKES has multiple systems for bringing in and/or overseeing collision gases or vapors and the ability to vary slit height and width.
Kosmotropes and chaotropes Highly charged ions interact strongly with water, breaking hydrogen bonds and inducing electrostatic structuring of nearby water, and are thus called "structure-makers" or "kosmotropes".
REMS processes the raw, unfiltered ultrasound signals acquired during an echographic scan of the axial sites, femur and spine.
The real goal is to reduce changes in the activity coefficients of ionic species which allows the definition of conditional equilibrium or rate constants.
Hence for an ideal, simple-harmonically vibrating bond, the vibrational spectrum contains no overtones.
The quantum revival time for the atom in RTM is calculated by finding the wave function for the Hamiltonian, given in Equation 1.
Moreover, EMCD can be measured on any TEM equipped with an EELS detector, whereas XMCD is normally measured only on dedicated synchrotron beamlines.
Tandem mass spectra are acquired either by fragmenting all ions that enter the mass spectrometer at a given time (called broadband DIA) or by sequentially isolating and fragmenting ranges of m/z.
This is justifiable in many cases, as such equipment can perform very specific tasks employing cutting-edge technology.
Variants Negative chemical ionization Chemical ionization for gas phase analysis is either positive or negative.
A three-button mouse is supported and mouse buttons can be modified additionally with shift keys (shift, control, meta, shift-control, ...).
Overlies: A context is said to overlie another when the overlying context is later in time and makes physical contact with the earlier context.
The resulting effect is that less light will strike the photodetector and this will produce a higher optical density (OD) Using the Beer–Lambert law it is possible to relate the amount of light absorbed to the concentration of the absorbing molecule.
Alternatively, fluorescent compounds attached to RNA hybridization probes are used to identify specific sequences and sequential application of different RNA probes will build up a comprehensive transcriptome.
Additionally, her lab produced sample cells with reduced pathlengths, and using material, (CaF2), transparent to VUV radiation which significantly enhanced the collection of data into the SRCD lower wavelength regions.
Kary Mullis, who also worked at Cetus, had synthesized the oligonucleotide probes being tested by Saiki and Erlich.
In electronic spectroscopy, this often appears as a strong, continuous feature in the absorption or emission spectrum, making repulsive states easy to detect.
Specific incident reconstruction deals with road traffic accidents, bombings, homicides, and accidents of any severity.
The functional head group is usually the bioactive component of the construct and the various spacers and lipids influence and effect its presentation, orientation and location on a surface.
The double helix then separates into two single strands which are in the random coiled conformation.
Because Kerr frequency combs only rely on the nonlinear properties of the medium inside the microresonator and do not require a broadband laser gain medium, broad Kerr frequency combs can in principle be generated around any pump frequency.
The diagrams are named after Walter Grotrian, who introduced them in his 1928 book Graphische Darstellung der Spektren von Atomen und Ionen mit ein, zwei und drei Valenzelektronen ("Graphical representation of the spectra of atoms and ions with one, two and three valence electrons").
In addition to the nonlinearity, the chromatic dispersion of the medium also plays a crucial role for these systems.
History Recent technological developments in hydrography (e.g., large adoption of multibeam echosounder and electronic navigational charts) have pushed hydrographic organizations to adopt a new production paradigm centered on gridded surfaces rather than sounding-based workflow and products.
The tyrosine residue in the FLAG-tag can be sulfated when expressed on certain secreted proteins, which can affect antibody recognition of the FLAG epitope.
As of 2014, low-end refurbished 60 MHz and 90 MHz systems were sold as FT-NMR instruments, and in 2010 the "average workhorse" NMR instrument was configured for 300 MHz.
Due to the magnetic interaction, the energy of the ms = ±1 states is higher than that of the ms = 0 state.
groupware) such as Zoom, Skype, Microsoft Teams, Google Meet, and many more are still actively used by most businesses and educational institutions in the aftermath of the pandemic, although not as much as they did during it.
"Anisotropic relativistic cross-sections for inelastic electron scattering, and the magic angle" (PDF).
When water is filled with air bubbles, the fluid density is essentially the density of water, and the air will contribute significantly to the compressibility.
In the direct method, just enough of the reagents will be added to completely use up all of the water.
In geology, especially in the study of glacial till, eigenvectors and eigenvalues are used as a method by which a mass of information of a clast fabric's constituents' orientation and dip can be summarized in a 3-D space by six numbers.
Electron usage The software framework Electron also uses the term "Accelerator" as the name for its API to specify keyboard shortcuts for menu items and program behaviors on multiple platforms, including those other than Windows.
Double head Two bands may overlap with the head of one on top of another band or close to each other.
See also Archaeological field survey Excavation Shovel test pit Watching brief wikt:sondage == References ==
The "magic" angle depends on both the incoming electron energy (which is typically fixed) and the energy loss suffered by the electron.
Other effects such as the Raman effect and higher order dispersion effects require additional terms in the equation.
In addition to the more common mass analyzers listed below, there are others designed for special situations.
Michael Bancroft Charles Glover Barkla Nikolay Basov Jane Blankgen Niels Bohr Frederick Sumner Brackett (1896–1988), discovered the hydrogen Brackett series.
At the client end, OS X defaults to only focusing text boxes and lists, but this setting can be overridden to allow navigation to all entries (see references).
Ideally, other gas molecules do not absorb light at this wavelength, and do not affect the amount of light reaching the detector; however some cross-sensitivity is inevitable.
Another rarely used obscure term is inverse Zeeman effect, referring to the Zeeman effect in an absorption spectral line.
This technique is generally only useful when comparing a known sample from a scene to a possible source.
The correct MOC can reduce or even eliminate the corrosion seen in the vessel but, depending on the material chosen, could increase the price of a system.
It has however been shown, from both numerical simulations and observations, that the magnetic field strength and complexity is underestimated if no linear polarization spectra is available from observations.
These techniques prevent the compounds from reacting with components of air, usually water and oxygen; less commonly carbon dioxide and nitrogen.
Soon after, flow cytometry instruments were developed, including the Cytofluorograph (1971) from Bio/Physics Systems Inc.
The clipboard is a buffer that some operating systems provide for short-term storage and transfer across applications.
Bio-electrospraying is a technology that enables the deposition of living cells on various targets with a resolution that depends on cell size and not on the jetting phenomenon.
This is usually done in equilibrium or kinetic studies in order to reduce relative changes in the ionic strength of a solution.
The potential of the method was demonstrated by investigating cytogenetic and physiological changes of human lymphocyte cells as well as conducting comprehensive genetic, genomic and physiological state studies of human cells and cells of the model yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
Elastic materials Elastic solids generally become less elastic the cooler they get, making fracturing easier.
A Thermal and Evolved Gas Analyzer mass spectrometer was carried by the Mars Phoenix Lander launched in 2007.
Under vacuum, an equilibrium between the content of moisture and air (solved gases) in the liquid and gaseous phase is achieved.
Peptides and proteins Extensive VCD studies have been reported for both polypeptides and several proteins in solution; several recent reviews were also compiled.
An example of re-cutting would be a roadside ditch being re-cut and emptied of silt and detritus as a form of maintenance.
Artifacts and features can both be made from any available material, with the primary distinction being portability.
Such nano-assemblies formed by means of this top-down approach could be explored as a bottom-up methodology for encouraging cell migration to those architectures for forming cell patterns to nano-electronics, which are a few examples, respectively.
Crystal Truncation Rod (CTR) measurements allow detailed determination of atomic structure at the surface, especially useful in cases of oxidation, epitaxial growth, and adsorption studies on crystalline surfaces.
The first results from the prototype triple-axis spectrometer were published in January 1955 and the first true triple-axis spectrometer was built in 1956.
Motivation India is a multilingual country with 1,635 languages (including dialects and sub dialects) while Indian currency notes display 15 major languages.
GEISA is maintained by the ARA [1] group at LMD (Ecole Polytechnique) [2] for its scientific part and by the ETHER group [3] (CNRS Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique-France) at IPSL (Institut Pierre Simon Laplace) for its technical part.
On hand-held devices, it enables the user to type on the numeric keypad to enter Latin alphabet characters (or any other alphabet characters) or touch a screen display to input text.
While ESRF and APS played the major role in experimental facilities, the Japanese high-energy synchrotron in the round, SPring-8 followed in 2013 by performing feasibility studies of this kind.
The development of new technologies is increasing scientists' ability to analyze the genome and transcriptome of single cells, and to quantify their proteome and metabolome.
The technique is very reliable, as the reconstruction of the magnetic field maps with different algorithms yield almost identical results, even with poorly sampled data sets.
Supersaturation is one of the driving forces of crystallization, as the solubility of a species is an equilibrium process quantified by Ksp.
Apices were characterized as sharp, rounded, or blunt, and the valleys between them either high or low.
For example, to stabilize the offset frequency of the Kerr frequency comb one can directly apply feedback to the pump laser frequency.
Tomographic reconstruction software Tomographic systems have significant variability in their applications and geometries (locations of sources and detectors).
However, in the presence of an external electric field, these electron orbitals will hybridize into eigenstates of the perturbed Hamiltonian (where each perturbed hybrid state can be written as a superposition of unperturbed states).
Google Images permits users to drag and drop image files into a browser to perform a reverse image search.
In liquid phase, the carbocation is initially formed in the same solvation state as the parent molecule, and some reactions may happen before the solvent shells around it have time to rearrange.
See also Tab order Focus stealing Selection (user interface) References Notes α Per window or window class, with additional support for "never focus" — windows that should never receive focus.
Meaning is something assigned to objects of cultural or spiritual significance based on interpretations and perceived values by user populations, a process known as social construction of an object.
Reactions only proceed when a template is present, allowing for a form of quantitative PCR, to assess the original concentration of template molecules.
A materials oscilloscope is a time-resolved synchrotron high-energy X-ray technique to study rapid phase composition and microstructural related changes in a polycrystalline sample.
The overtone band observed in the IR spectrum is one such transition with ∆v=2, from v=0 to v=2 energy state.
Measures of success Success of liquid–liquid extraction is measured through separation factors and decontamination factors.
Epigraphers usually take a long time (days to weeks) to post-process the generated estampages, as they try to decipher, analyze, transliterate and translate the inscribed text.
However, WIMP interfaces are not optimal for working with certain tasks or through input devices which differ from a mouse and keyboard.
The Linux console implemented this behaviour by using ⇧ Shift+Page Up and ⇧ Shift+Page Down, not requiring Scroll Lock to be active; this behavior has been removed due to a vulnerability (CVE-2020-14390).
Ultrashort pulse X-ray techniques are able to resolve atomic scales, where dynamic structural changes and reactions occur in the interior of a material.
It is one of the most specific tags and it is an artificial antigen to which specific, high affinity monoclonal antibodies have been developed and hence can be used for protein purification by affinity chromatography and also can be used for locating proteins within living cells.
Since using the menus, and subsequently the mouse, is not always the best solution, it is important to provide users with the possibility to minimize usage of the mouse.
When doing X-ray measurements of a surface, the sample is held in Ultra-High Vacuum and the X-rays pass into and out of the UHV chamber through Beryllium windows.
In molecular biology, a common application involves DNA templates diluted into polymerase chain reactions (PCR).
Thus a quadratic potential is used in the Schrödinger equation to solve for the vibrational energy eigenstates and their eigenvalues.
Selective and non-selective serotonin 5-HT2A antagonists, like volinanserin (M100907), can block production of the HTR by serotonergic psychedelics.
The MT_CKD Water Vapor Continuum provides absorption coefficients for both the self continuum (arising from interactions between water molecules) and the foreign continuum (arising from interactions between water vapor and other atmospheric gases).
Psychological autopsy in suicidology (or also psychiatric autopsy) is a systematic procedure for evaluating suicidal intention in equivocal cases.
Studies of adolescents have shown that adolescents who self-injure have greater physiological reactivity (e.g., skin conductance) to stress than adolescents who do not self-injure.
In addition to addressing caloric intake and malnutrition, psychological treatment of patients is vital to the treatment of atypical anorexia nervosa.
In 2012, Michael Dunn shot and murdered Jordan Davis, a Black teenager, over loud music being played in a gas station parking lot.
He displayed his maverick tendencies by transplanting a third-hand heart, despite having been expressly forbidden to do so by the hospital chairman, Michael Beauchamp (Anthony Calf).
Dement, who stated that on the tenth day of the experiment, Gardner had been, among other things, able to beat Dement at pinball.
Accomplices, such as romantic partners and children, may be asked to commit crimes, such as filing false insurance claims or making false reports to the police, which can result in criminal charges.
Theory The Experiential Avoidance Model (EAM) According to this model, the maintenance of deliberate self-harm behavior is due to negative reinforcement.
In other words, less thin ideal images portrayed by the media resulted in less thin-ideal internalization.
The study showed family therapy to be the more effective approach in patients under 18 and within 3 years of the onset of their illness.
Characters The following are the 19 characters in the main narrative, along with the stories they tell: "Guts" The book is best known for the short story "Guts", which had been published before the book in the March 2004 issue of Playboy magazine as well as on Palahniuk's website.
Sometimes there is also a message in the case of murder–suicide, explaining the reason(s) for the murder(s); see, for example, Marc Lépine's suicide statement and videotaped statements of the 7 July 2005 London bombers.
Arkham appears to take this all in his stride and perseveres, earning praise from his colleagues for his dedication to mental health and rehabilitation.
A sexually active woman since she was fifteen, she has had sex with many men and boys and describes herself as continuously randy.
He received a Samaritans Lifesaver Award in 2023, as part of the UK railway industry's RailStaff Awards.
The Assisted Dying (Jersey) Law 202- is a bill to legalise assisted dying for terminally ill adults who live in Jersey.
In the 13th century, Marco Polo witnessed a pious Baghdad carpenter who enucleated his right eye for sinful thoughts of a young female customer.
In January 2010, it was invited to the World Cinema Narrative Competition at the 2010 Sundance Film Festival.
Larkin believed that many of Blessing's issues are due to her always thinking the worst, self-loathing and worrying that people will cut her off and be horrible, which Larkin related to as he was like that when he came out as gay.
Incidents Elizabeth Báthory allegedly forced some of her servants to eat their own flesh in the early 17th century.
The CASE (Child & Adolescent Self-harm in Europe) study suggests that the life-time risk of self-injury is ~1:7 for women and ~1:25 for men.
Moreover, subsequent research showed that ambivalence does not disappear even in the moment of a suicide attempt.
Atkinson was again nominated for 'Best Actress' in the 2003 awards and also for the award of Best Dramatic Performance From a Young Actor or Actress in the 2004 British Soap Awards.
In the Netherlands, the term "coronavirus party" and other similar terms may refer to a party that is organized during the COVID-19 pandemic but without any intention of spreading the virus.
According to the American Library Association, the book was the 86th most banned and challenged book in the United States between 2000 and 2009 (86).
She worked on a documentary about her life while taking portrait photos of Syrian refugee children in Greece in 2019.
At the same time, the lack of common interests with his wife, common topics of conversation had a depressing effect on the composer.
In one such haunting, Cassie swallows her "see-glass." Lia's relationship with her step-mother, Jennifer, is complicated.
Dongfang treats his followers cruelly, forcing them to consume poison pills and giving them antidotes to temporarily ease their agony only if they obey him.
One study that supported the addiction theory of picking found that 79% of patients with excoriation disorder reported a pleasurable feeling when picking.
East Asian cultures Confucianism holds that one should give up one's life, if necessary, either passively or actively, for the sake of upholding the cardinal moral values of ren (altruism) and yi (righteousness).
Mari and Udmurts have been found to have a three times higher suicide rate than Finns and Hungarians.
The setup was initially idyllic but over time, Lillian began to suspect that Mark and Caroline were sleeping together, as they shared a strong attraction.
Synopsis Peter Bernuth stars as the recipient of the title shave, repeatedly shaving away hair, then skin, in an increasingly bloody and graphic bathroom scene.
The law primarily targeted Dignitas, the sole organization offering assisted suicide to non-resident foreign nationals.
It centers on issues including gender fluidity, gender norms, sexuality, bullying, self-harm, and drug dealing.
Stage productions In 2006, the Hong Kong Dance Company adapted the novel into a stage play, starring Rosanne Wong, Race Wong, Liu Yinghong, Su Shu, Chen Lei and Mi Tao, as a jubilee presentation to celebrate the company's 25th anniversary.
A suicide epidemic is a large number of suicides taking place over a period of time in a manner that resembles a disease epidemic.
Differences with the television series In the book, Clay listens to all of Hannah's tapes in one night; in the television series, he listens to them over the course of several days.
Roses fears come true, and Dimitri comes hunting after her, now a Strigoi and wishing for her to join him too.
It may also be necessary to check thyroid levels, as hypothyroidism seems to play a role in some cases, particularly in black Labrador retrievers; thyroid medication often will resolve the problem if it is due to hypothyroidism.
Academic Eva Rueschmann said that psychoanalysis was an obvious tool with which to study the film, given the subconscious links between its characters.
However, it may be hypothesized that abnormal brain function is involved, especially in those cases that appear sensitive to treatment with behavioural intervention and environmental changes.
As the semester progresses, Kaitlyn uses an attic in an abandoned building as a refuge and meets Ari, with whom she reluctantly falls in love.
Bella is "staunchly unrepentant" as she explains that she wants to hurt Mackenzie for breaking up with Colby.
She soon began to experience respiratory problems, which then prevented oxygen from flowing to her brain.
He gets caught up in a series of supernatural events involving Whitehead, and the mysterious Mamoulian, through whom Whitehead made a deal with the Devil during World War II.
Labour leader Michael Foot decided as a statement on internal democracy that the manifesto would consist of all resolutions arrived at in its party conference.
In 1934, a lynch mob tortured and murdered Claude Neal, a 23-year-old African-American farmhand accused of murder in Jackson County, Florida.
Luna Merbruja of Autostraddle reviewed the novel as a "captivating tale of betrayal, murder, mysticism, legend and compassion", and wrote that it is "satirical commentary on the roots of trans literature as based in memoir".
He also believed that suicide is more likely in advanced civilizations requiring greater repression of sexual and aggressive energy.
David Cain's son David Cain, one of the world's premier assassins, was by the nature of his profession a very lonely man and began thinking about what he would leave behind when he died.
This is possible because the SIBIS device is composed of two wirelessly connected parts: the "sensor module" and the "stimulus module".
Based on feminist analyses of the condition, as deriving from the tyranny of body images, its translation of theory into character is a notable achievement.
The character returned to television in an episode of The Goldbergs titled "Mister Knifey-Hands" with Englund reprising his role in a cameo.
Jeremy Borjon of Revolver described the song as "a disturbingly upbeat song about a man attempting suicide" and included it with several other songs as high points of the album.
Cannot you see that the rogue has done no more than change one pair of crutches for another?...Would a God full of goodwill find pleasure in bathing in tears?
Anger tends to be the first feeling the individual experiences when they realize that their emotions are related to their loss.
Omocat stated that they eventually took a role as lead programmer, sometimes working up to 20 hours a day to ensure the game's release.
She has previously worked in Africa and her direct contact with the patients is very limited, talking to them for only a matter of minutes in a session.
Haunted by her love-deprived relationship with her late father, this once strong role model and medical student, is gripped by anorexia.
Leah Lakshmi Piepzna-Samarasinha of Bitch said that the book is "full of poetic voice" and that many trans women of colour "will see their own stories reflected within".
These include the Skin-Picking Impact Scale (SPIS) and The Milwaukee Inventory for the Dimensions of Adult Skin-picking.
As an apology, Max buys 10 Turpin Road for Tanya to open as a beauty parlour and begins spending time with Bradley.
Suicidal defenses by workers are also seen in the Brazilian ant Forelius pusillus, where a small group of ants leaves the security of the nest after sealing the entrance from the outside each evening.
Eventually, unable to live with her hurt of her now hospitalized mother she tries to make the final cut.
However, his career continued to stall as he managed to play just a solitary game there, a traumatic 0–3 defeat to Istanbulspor on 10 August 2003.
It is in his nature." Publication Black Flame approached author Nancy Kilpatrick about writing for the company and suggested she pen a novel based on Jason X.
The exact bounds of self-harm are imprecise, but generally exclude tissue damage that occurs as an unintended side-effect of eating disorders or substance abuse, as well as more societally acceptable body modification, such as tattoos and piercings.
She was also looking for "new opportunities", and something to "fill a void in her life", but it was likely that she was running away from "some demons in her past." Banno described Olivia as bold, "a definite go-getter", and as someone who puts themselves out there.
In the Toronto Star Heather Mallick commended Freeman for her "precise and questing mind" and for her "willingness to dig out complications that lazier journalists miss".
Third, the LOSS team has a strong relationship with other first responders, such as law enforcement, emergency services, fire departments, funeral home representatives, and more.
Reception Peggy Barber in The Daily News writes 'Slaughter's portrayal of incest as beautiful and innocent is convincing - no easy task.
If there were a gathering at my house, I would leave a place for God, and I would accustom him to say: "We were four-God, my friend, my tutor, and myself." Reception In July 1746, the Parlement of Paris condemned the book and ordered it to be burned in public.
He was brought to the nearest hotel, Dagmara, "where after a violent nervous fit he fell into unconsciousness, which lasted about two weeks" (in later publications, there were notes to this fragment: "should read — about two days", a term followed by some researchers).
She believed that to achieve her goal as a professional dancer, she must have a body sitting according to the standards of the society, otherwise her dreams of becoming a famous dancer would never happen.
Jerome, guided by Rebecca's spirit, escapes Freddy and stops Dark Jerome from killing Lynn and his stepsiblings but is unable to save Don.
Seven's head of creative drama, Bevan Lee, later confirmed that the censorship allegations were in fact false and that the scene would still go to air as planned.
"Determined Agency: A Postsecular Proposal for Religion and Literature-and Science." Religion and Literature 41.3 (2009): 91–98.
He has appeared in an episode of the Islam Channel's Living the Life and as a guest on the ITV programme This Morning.
In 2019, the novel was ranked 96th on The Guardian's list of the 100 best books of the 21st century.
However, some towns began to notice that sometimes Flagellants brought plague to towns where it had not yet surfaced.
Characteristics In The Evil Dead, Ash is portrayed as being incapable of dealing with the events around him.
More subtle clues include preparing for death for no apparent reason (such as putting affairs in order or changing a will), writing goodbye letters, and visiting or calling family members or friends to say farewell.
The NHS mandates the use of ligature resistant fixtures in all unsupervised or semi-supervised areas.
People begin to speak to us of God too soon, and another mistake is that his presence is not sufficiently insisted upon.
Olivia and Mason's break up aired in April 2017, after she finally admits that she still has feelings for Hunter.
However, when Mayor West announces that all coffins must be buried in concrete (to guard against zombies), Peter exclaims that Quagmire is not dead, and brings him out of the coffin, alive.
Her manipulations allow her to use emotions as a weapon; she appears the "innocent good girl" (in front of teachers, her parents, or other people of authority), the martyr (when her bullying draws the attention of other classmates and teachers), or the predator (when tormenting others).
Most people are under the influence of sedative-hypnotic drugs (such as alcohol or benzodiazepines) when they die by suicide, with alcoholism present in between 15 and 61% of cases.
These settings may include outpatient facilities, partial hospitals, residential treatment centers, or hospitals.
The Pursuit of the Millennium: Revolutionary Millenarians and Mystical Anarchists of the Middle Ages.
Personal life and photography Lene Marie Fossen had Anorexia nervosa since age 10, stating she started to starve in order to prevent growing up.
Bernard's popularity is fleeting, though, and he becomes envious that John only really bonds with the literary-minded Helmholtz.
To keep up with the incredible physical demands of the business after a success at one of the biggest brokerages on Wall Street, at 28 years old he turned to cocaine and then to heroin.
This is a fluctuating estimate due to the fact that mental health is often overlooked and under reported.
Background In 1987, American psychiatrist Armando Favazza published Bodies Under Siege: Self-mutilation in Culture and Psychiatry, the first psychiatric text on the subject of self-harm.
To research the book, she interviewed over 50 people who intentionally harm themselves, many of them by cutting.
It was received well by the international media and the special edition of the album sold-out soon after its release date (it was limited to 3,000 copies worldwide).
Molly Molly is a dead, young woman who appears as Captain Hero's "love interest" in The Drawn Together Movie: The Movie!.
See also Psychonautics Participant observation Seth Roberts Personal science Human Enhancement Quantified self Further reading Lawrence K.
Naida asks Kaitlyn to break herself out of the hospital, fearing that a Shyan, a dark magic user, is after Kaitlyn/Carly because of the power held by dual souls.
Music Style and lyrics In an interview with The Village Voice, Anderson cited rock musician Lou Reed as the model for her songwriting style on Past Life Martyred Saints.
In 1991 she made ‘’Lady Lazarus’’, the first part of a trilogy ‘’Living on Air’’, which was inspired by the poetry of Sylvia Plath and which she made across the span of nine years.
In early January 2018, television personality Jimmy Kimmel referenced the meme when discussing a tweet from President Donald Trump, jokingly suggesting that Trump had "been in the White House laundry room eating Tide Pods again".
The first known mention of excoriation disorder in print can be found in 1898 by the French dermatologist Louis-Anne-Jean Brocq, describing an adolescent female patient who had uncontrolled picking of acne.
Much more community support, clinical attention, and quality research are needed to prevent and treat depression and suicide in children, adolescents, and adults.
He grows up to become a serial killer who rapes, mutilates, and murders women and young girls, removing their faces and sexual organs afterward.
The reason given to the Hannover 96 coaching was an intestinal infection campylobacter, although it is revealed in Ronald Reng's book A Life Too Short: The Tragic Story of Robert Enke that this was only partly true and in fact Enke's depression had returned.
These collections of symptoms have been known for a number of years, but only recently have appeared in widespread medical literature.
In dogs, canine compulsive disorder can lead to self-inflicted injuries, for example canine lick granuloma.
While the initial concept of the character was created by DeviantArt and Newgrounds user "Sesseur", the character gained widespread popularity following the publication of a fan-made creepypasta story in 2011.
As of 2012, attempted suicide is a criminal offense in Uganda, and as of 2013, it is criminalized in Ghana.
Living in Denver's projects, he sees a crack house operating every day just down the street from him, and he is powerless to do anything about it.
Members of such support groups may: Endorse anorexia and/or bulimia as desirable (84% and 64% respectively in a 2010 survey).
There may be another neurological explanation for excoriation disorder: individuals with the condition have less motor-inhibitory control, but show no sign of a difference in cognitive flexibility when compared to individuals without the condition.
The individual then accesses a "multi-step request and assessment process", requiring independent assessment by two qualified health professionals.
Soranus, also from Ephesus (in present-day Turkey), noticed that the condition of melancholics improved after they drank from certain alkaline springs nearby, which have been shown to contain lithium, a chemical element used to treat bipolar disorder.
A major cause of lick granuloma appears to be psychological, related to stress, anxiety, separation anxiety, boredom, or compulsiveness.
Sophie agrees, taking over the position leader of the Cliffhangers, and their mutual affinity continues to deepen.
Kodansha collected its chapters in twelve tankōbon volumes, released from July 11, 2018, to May 12, 2021.
In December 2019, independent Legislative Council member Mike Gaffney announced he would introduce a private member's bill to legalise voluntary assisted dying the following year.
To evaluate, Fairburn et al..'s model and more generally the cognitive explanation of bulimia nervosa is more descriptive than explanatory, as it does not necessarily explain how bulimia arises.
Laurent created a series of eight art pieces in a collection named "Nudes X Elle Nash(2021)" in response to the short story collection.
The biological techniques used to control the populace in Brave New World do not include genetic engineering; Huxley wrote the book before the structure of DNA was known.
See also Assisted Dying Bill 2023 Assisted Dying for Terminally Ill Adults (Scotland) Bill Assisted suicide in the United Kingdom References External links Assisted dying in Jersey on the Government of Jersey's website
When asked in November 2007 whether she actively sought out well-known names to fill new roles in the show, series producer Diana Kyle responded: "It's lovely when we have a new member of the cast come in and bring an audience with them.
Just then, Francine and Hayley both show up to confront Stan after they discovered his secret, and Steve becomes quite upset with his father after realizing that breaking up with Debbie didn't help him in any way.
In 2008 she received the Public Health Prize from the Nordic Council of Ministers of Health for outstanding contributions to public mental health research and prevention.
As revealed in the foreword to the trade paperback of "Batman: The Last Arkham", Zsasz's name is derived from that of psychiatrist Thomas Szasz; Grant saw the name while visiting a library.
Everyone is shocked by Max's actions who is smugly delighted that everything has fallen into place for him.
However, on a very rare occasion, in the 2012 Extreme Rules event, Brock Lesnar caused John Cena to bleed without blading with a vicious elbow to his head and further hard strikes to Cena's body, though Cena ultimately won the match, and the match was critically acclaimed.
On May 22, 2017, it was announced that David Sullivan, Reagan Pasternak, Sydney Sweeney, Hilary Ward, and Sophia Lillis had been cast in recurring roles.
Cultural references American Dad!: In "The Best Christmas Story Never", Stan travels back in time to 1970 and meets a young Martin Scorsese.
The Werther effect occurs when suicides that are made publicly known encourage others to imitate them.
"The Other Cousin" was the first episode to focus on Hero, but it was the second-season episode "Little Orphan Hero" that proved to be a major turning point for the character.
They have done this by following the Preparing for Crisis training aspect of the program and also through consulting with the CAYS program.
She is a delusional and mentally unstable religious fanatic, who believes almost everything is a sin to God, especially when related to female anatomy or sexual intercourse.
Lily struggles with his departure and ends up relapsing in her self-harm when Diane tells her off for cheating on Prince.
Employment Autistic individuals experience higher rates of unemployment and social exclusion compared to the general population.
It is known for its unusual reproductive behavior, which involves stinging a cockroach and using it as a host for its larvae.
Nicole is given a verbal summary of each of the male characters pursuing her by her new best friend Jecka, who provides most of the visual novel's exposition.
Observations in captivity indicated that birds tore the broodsac out of the snail before eating it, so the snail may survive this.
Meta-analyses have not supported some studies' conclusion that self-harm rates are increasing among adolescents.
Adolescents reported that they discuss their mental and emotional health with a healthcare professional.
He then deliberately maimed himself, stabbing himself in the leg, slashing the muscles of one ankle, and cutting off a finger of his left hand, which he proceeded to sew back on with a needle and thread.
Basically I don't think I could do what they do and still be alive." Several of Edmondson's Holby City co-stars have described feeling intimidated by the prospect of working alongside him for the first time, stemming from his already well established fame.
Many researchers studied westernization as a cause of eating disorders in Chinese women and it is one of the main theories believed today.
Strict adherents to the perspective of only individual treatment will insist that the participation of parents, whatever the format, is at best unnecessary, but worse still interference in the recovery process.
Radford considers the stories "classic folklore (a friend-of-a-friend or FOAF) tale presented in news media as fact", noting that they were often anonymous third-hand story with no verifiable names or other details.
Hollyoaks scriptwriter Jonathan Larkin revealed that he had the original idea for the character after being inspired by a friend of his in addition to actress Laverne Cox's character in Orange Is the New Black and journalist Paris Lees.
The two Asian men who meet Peter at the traffic lights when riding Joan's back speak in a very similar tone to Howard Cosell, a reference to the 1985 cult film Better Off Dead.
Media In October 2001, The Oprah Winfrey Show hosted a special on anorexia; the pro-ana movement was discussed briefly by the guest panel, who expressed alarm at the appearance of pro-ana websites and recommended the use of filtering software to bar access to them.
Justin Chang, writing for Variety, said, "Body horror and body art are conjoined in the tastefully kinky" film, which is a "tonally extreme portrait of a woman who swears off meat before retreating into a literally vegetative state".
Some of the branches develop into long tubes ending in a swollen broodsac, but these are staggered in their states of development, so that normally only two or three broodsacs are mature simultaneously.
That is why, according to him, Kashkin in this fragment of his memoirs began to narrate in the first person (on behalf of Tchaikovsky) and based his memoirs on the notes he made during the composer's story.
Stories Reception The magazine Cosmopolitan featured Nudes as one of the 18 books for 2022 "sad girl summer." Transgressive fiction author Dennis Cooper, best known for his series The George Miles Cycle, listed the short story collection as his favorite 2021 media on his blog.
There is also evidence that higher rates of SSRI prescriptions are associated with lower rates of suicide in children, though since the evidence is correlational, the true nature of the relationship is unclear.
Non compos mentis had become the usual verdict in cases of suicide by the last third of the century." Repeal England and Wales In England and Wales, the offence of felo de se was abolished by section 1 of the Suicide Act 1961.
Polyembolokoilamania is the act of inserting foreign bodies into orifices such as the rectum, urethra and vagina.
Relationships Writers developed a relationship story between Lisa and new character Cameron Clark (Ben Gerrard).
In 2018, Consumer Reports published a story discussing the contents of laundry detergent pods and the consequences of ingesting them, which can include death.
Gardner appeared to have fully recovered from his loss of sleep, with follow-up sleep recordings taken one, six, and ten weeks after the fact, showing no significant differences.
Death is a natural process of life thus there should not be any laws to prevent it if the patient seeks to end it.
Agnes' confinement to bed may reflect gender roles and expectations for women about sex, childbirth and death.
The novel also features elements that question whether or not supernatural elements in the novel actually occurred or if they were due to mental illness, superstition, or susceptibility towards supernatural beliefs of the characters.
After the chorus, Petra Christensen sings the outro stated by J-Dog in a Hollywood Undead live cast in January promoting the release for the band's latest album.
One such example is the Sanctioned Suicide site, which has been restricted in Germany and Italy and has been blocked in Turkey.
It was released in North America on February 7, 2014, and globally between March and July of the same year.
Synopsis Decades after the introduction of a cancer cure, the children of its users develop "Duryea-Gode Disease" (DGD), a genetic disease whose symptoms include dissociative states, obsessive self-mutilation, and violent psychosis.
Sally abandons her vehicle and the Freddy and Jacob-related paperwork within it, which is found by Ella Harris, a reporter for Springwood High's student newspaper, and a delinquent named Mathew Irwin.
Research Wasserman’s research integrates social, psychiatric and genetic aspects and is oriented towards the prevention of mental health problems and suicide.
In 2015, a lawyer with cancer Lecretia Seales brought a case (Seales v Attorney-General) to the High Court to challenge New Zealand law for her right to die with the assistance of her GP, asking for a declaration that her GP would not risk conviction.
Thought experiment The quantum suicide thought experiment involves a similar apparatus to Schrödinger's cat—a box that kills the occupant in a given time frame with probability one-half due to quantum measurement.
Nash states that although the short story collection doesn't have a traditional structure, she was inspired by Dennis Cooper's collection Frisk and its interwoven stories.
It was a good version, and I certainly wasn't cringing or anything, but it felt like I was watching my girlfriend fuck somebody else.
Given the social stigma associated with suicide, suicide survivors are often unable to cope with their loss and grief using normal support systems, and are "forced into a privatized and individualistic mode of grieving," making the healing process even more difficult.
He has published studies showing that gender identity conversion therapies (attempts to make transgender people cisgender) are widespread in the US and associated with suicide attempts.
When not on the hunt, Eric stays in the house he shared with Shelly, spending most of his time there, lost in memories of her.
The birthday effect has been seen in studies of general populations in England and Wales, Switzerland, Ukraine, and the United States, as well as in smaller populations such as Major League Baseball players.
Lee and Lee, in a study of different levels of socioeconomic development in three Chinese communities, compared the aptitude of disordered eating among females in high school.
"The partygoers intentionally got together 'thinking they were invincible' and purposely defying state guidance to practice social distancing," he said.
Distribution The wasp is mostly found in the tropical regions of Africa, South Asia, Southeast Asia, and the Pacific islands.
Detection and management of mental illness has also been suggested to be an effective method aimed at reducing rates of suicide.
Background Depression and self-harm often go hand-in-hand, though there are many other reasons people self-harm.
Since DGD is an illness that facilitates self-mutilation and maniacal episodes of violence, people tend to stay away from those affected by the disease.
South Africa South African courts, including the Appellate Division, have ruled that suicide and attempted suicide are not crimes under the Roman-Dutch law, or that if they ever were crimes, they have been abrogated by disuse.
After the babies' parents leave, she cusses them out and leaves to meet her boyfriend Chad Huffington.
She was educated at Sheffield High School and was a bright student, but left school early as she was unhappy there.
Complex suicide, distinguished from simple suicide, is the act of intentionally causing one's death with more than one method, either simultaneously or sequentially.
Medication There are several different classes of pharmacological treatment agents that have some support for treating excoriation disorder: SSRIs, opioid antagonists, anti-epileptic agents, and glutamatergic agents.
The album was included in best-of-the-year year-end lists including those by Rolling Stone and The Daily Dot.
Two weeks after her death, these cassette tapes are mailed out with directions to pass the tapes on to the next person on the tape.
Weather in the colder season increases the prevalence of afflictions such as pneumonia and hypothermia, which largely proceeds from the minimal amount of sunlight exposure in the wintertime.
He later wrote in The New England Journal of Medicine about his early experiences of childhood homophobia and how they influenced his experience of medical education.
Studies have shown that administration of haloperidol to affected birds will cause a long-term reduction in obsessive feather-plucking, however the birds always relapsed as soon as the medication was withdrawn.
Turban has been critical of Wall Street Journal writer Abigail Shrier's book Irreversible Damage, which alleges that a recent surge in adolescents becoming transgender is taking place, supposedly due to social contagion.
These acute symptoms may resolve after a period of observation or limited psychopharmacological treatment.
Epidemiology Although no broad-based population epidemiologic studies had been conducted as of 2009, the lifetime prevalence of trichotillomania is estimated to be between 0.6% and 4.0% of the overall population.
By law people with DGD are removed from their city and placed in a facility where disease sufferers are entrapped into their own world and labeled as if they were delinquents.
banker Also called the house or the bank, the person responsible for distributing chips, keeping track of the buy-ins, and paying winners at the end of a banking game.
The low minimums created a general excitement in the casinos as hundreds of people would jostle to play table games.
Each event consists of Warm Up, Qualifying and the Hotlap finals, with Qualifying rank and Hotlap rank counting for the overall championship.
They should know the rules of the different card games, understand the odds of winning in various situations, and they must be able to communicate this information correctly to all levels of players.
It may also include informal descriptions of the character's physical appearance, personality, personal back-story ("background"), and possessions.
fiche A long rectangular counter used in some French card games and Danish Tarok that is worth a number of jetons, typically 10 or 20.
This does not allow sufficient variety to constitute a game in its own right, but it is the basis of such trick-avoidance games as Hearts, and provides an optional contract for most games involving an auction.
honour A card attracting a bonus score or side payment, usually to the player or team for holding and declaring them, but sometimes for capturing them in play.
close To bar further use of the talon by turning the trump card over and placing it on the top in card games such as Sixty-Six and Schnapsen.
Game designer Jeremy Crawford wrote, "In a perfect world, RAW and RAI align perfectly, but sometimes the words on the page don't succeed at communicating the designers' intent.
An alternative paradigm is to have all changes saved continuously (as with pen and paper) and all versions of a document available for review.
In some cases, a subathon contains elements of lifecasting, with Ludwig's 2021 subathon sometimes featuring him cooking food, exercising in his garage, and at one point, showering (albeit wearing shorts).
double-six dominoes, double-six set, double 6s, double six Domino set made up of 28 tiles with all the combinations from 0 to 6.
It was first used in Australia in April 1977 by TAB New South Wales, and was introduced in New Zealand in December 1983.
Many also lift the cards up after a riffle, forming what is called a bridge which puts the cards back into place; it can also be done by placing the halves flat on the table with their rear corners touching, then lifting the back edges with the thumbs while pushing the halves together.
spot, a: In pool games such as nine-ball, a specific handicap given (e.g., "what spot will you give me?").
In janggi (Korean chess), uniquely among modern chess variants, players are allowed to pass their turn at any time.
Euro 96 and Sega Rally Championship are major system-sellers for the Sega Saturn in the United Kingdom, with the latter becoming the fastest selling CD game.
Created by Facepunch Studios, S&box (stylized as s&box) is an upcoming spiritual successor to Garry's Mod.
However, common online gambling laws in the United States still don't exist – it differs from state to state.
shuffle To randomly rearrange or mix up the face-down tiles at the start of a round and before the players pick up their hands.
A possible response is to sacrifice the piece whose defense was undermined before capturing the piece which just took the defender.
Internally, this is most commonly done by simulating a ray from the origin of the item along the trajectory of the "projectile" and simply scanning for any objects touching the ray.
In 2002, it was awarded with an Award of Distinction, Net Vision category in the Prix Ars Electronica.
The formula was created by Nick Franco in 2010 and has since become a popular way to experience Pokémon games by people who find the original playstyle too easy or too stale.
For example, to move the top card down so that there are ten cards above it, express the number ten in binary (10102).
lurch A player is 'lurched' or 'in the lurch' in card games like Cribbage, Saunt or Cassino if they not only lose but fail to score a minimum number of points, typically half of a winning score.
double-nine dominoes, double-nine set, double 9s, double nine Domino set made up of 55 tiles with all the combinations from 0 to 9.
Similarly, if one player has only a king and either a bishop or a knight while the opponent has a bare king, the game is immediately drawn.
The practice of breaking is not officially considered gambling by many authorities, but has been noted to have the potential to create or promote a gambling addiction and inherently includes aspects common to other practices that are regulated as gambling.
Torre Repetto This game was most likely never played, instead being composed by Carlos Torre Repetto as a tribute to his instructor Edwin Ziegler Adams.
positional priority The priority a player has by virtue of his position in relation to the dealer and direction of play.
variation A game version in which there are minor rule differences, but in which the aim, mechanism of play and tactics remain the same.
The British and the Scandinavians are the most resistant to shortened packs, having maintained the 52-card format since receiving them in the 15th century.
A splatbook supplements the core materials of a game, which are typically given in a basic publication known as the core rulebook or by other names — these core books might also be referred to as sourcebooks, occasionally.
This system may allow the player to safely run through dangerous parts of the game without consequence.
block game Domino game in which the aim is to play tiles to the layout in order to block opponents so that they cannot play.
Discussion Connected pawns that are both passed, i.e., without any enemy pawns in front of them on the same file or adjacent files, are referred to as connected passed pawns.
claim An action or statement by which a player indicates he believes he will take all the remaining tricks.
See also KenKen Sudoku Mathematics of Sudoku Sudoku solving algorithms References Further reading ^ Teach yourself Sudoku, James Pitts ISBN 0-340-91376-2 p.
Bent Larsen concurs on the distinction between a true sacrifice and a gain in material, namely when trading a queen for a rook and two minor pieces.
fall of the cards The identity and order in which cards are played, especially as it gives an indication of the location of unplayed cards.
Thus, the total expected value for each application of the betting system is (0.978744 − 1.339118) = −0.360374 .
Many games increase the difficulty in a New Game Plus mode, such as those in the Mega Man Battle Network series and Borderlands series.
Gameplay According to the official website, players of the game are divided into teams which compete over time to earn "victory points".
The term generally refers to board games or wargames which were packaged and sold with instructions and maps or playing surfaces printed in a booklet format, or as one large sheet folded until it became "pocket sized" (approximately 4×7 inches).
Usually a pair (2 cards of the same rank but different suits) is not counted as a "set"; but some games, such as Bieten or Perlaggen do include pairs as sets.
In 2019, Steve Jackson Games ran a crowdfunding project to produce near-exact replicas of several Pocket Box games as well as associated ziplock bag expansions to those games.
Stephanie Boluk and Patrick Lemieux extend and refine Garfield's term to apply to potentially all forms of play and gaming, arguing that metagames are often more important than video games themselves.
god roll In games that generate randomized loot, the "god roll" is loot that has the subjectively best selection of possible random attributes such as perks and bonuses that could be generated for that particular piece of equipment.
The terms are most often used in games where both activities exist, particularly MMORPGs, MUDs, and other role-playing video games, to distinguish between game modes.
In many games, specialized terms are used, as such Dungeon Master for the person running Dungeons & Dragons, Storyteller for the person running a game set in the World of Darkness or Referee for the person running Traveller.
Reviewing the iPhone's first decade, David Pierce for Wired wrote that although Jobs prioritized a good experience making calls in the phone's development, other features of the phone soon became more important, such as its data connectivity and the later ability to install third-party software.
They may also be consulted whether to accept a bet or not, usually in the case where a very large bet is being placed, to not incur dangerously high liabilities.
The deck is separated into two preferably equal parts by simply lifting up half the cards with the right thumb slightly and pushing the left hand's packet forward away from the right hand.
Typically, on the day of the race, UK bookmakers offer a choice between placing a bet at SP, or taking a fixed price.
Symbol: spot card See numeral squeeze In trick-taking game, a player is 'squeezed' if he has to weaken himself in either of 2 suits, but has no way of deciding which.
It is usually caused by some tactical oversight, whether due to time trouble, overconfidence, or carelessness.
Both performance magicians and card sharps regard the Zarrow shuffle and the Push-Through-False-Shuffle as particularly effective examples of the false shuffle.
The word is first recorded in this sense in the rules for the game "Boston" in the late 18th century.
Notable challenge runs Nuzlocke Nuzlocke is a challenge run in Pokémon games where knocked out Pokémon cannot be used again for the rest of the run.
It inspired Joel "Bisqwit" Yliluoma to start the NESvideos website for TAS for the NES, and it was renamed TASVideos.
For example, as of 1 January 2020, bettors in Germany will not be able to bet more than €1,000 a month in accordance with the latest amendment of the ITG.
Bets were accepted until the time the bookmaker was informed of the result (i.e., until a few minutes after the race had been completed).
Game mechanics The player typically enters the gameplay mode by choosing to speak with a non-player character (or when a non-player character chooses to speak to them), and then choosing a line of pre-written dialog from a menu.
The Auditore cape is a skin that alters the player's cape appearance in Assassin's Creed II, and is unlocked through collecting all 100 feathers in the game, a bonus reward for dedicated players.
This is usually considered to be poor sportsmanship and some players even perceive it to be exploitative of the game itself.
Via the Steam platform, Counter-Strike: Global Offensive and Team Fortress 2 also allow players to trade these items, which has led to communities devoted to bartering them for real-world money, as well as gambling.
The game starts with a double in the middle of the table, acting as a spinner from which the players' "private trains" branch off.
They occur most often in king and pawn endgames, especially with triangulation, opposition, and mined squares.
Pitcher in games like Phat and Pitch, a player who establishes trumps in leading to the first trick.
match A card game session comprising a number of rounds after which scores are finalised and a winner declared.
Developed by onlife co-founders CEO Ryan David Mullins and Owen Batt, Aglet was released in April 2020.
As soon as the stock is exhausted or one player "closes the game" by announcing that they will score at least 70 points, the players stop drawing.
Decks differ regionally based on the number of cards needed to play the games; the French tarot consists of the "full" 78 cards, while Germanic, Spanish and Italian Tarot variants remove certain values (usually low suited cards) from the deck, creating a deck with as few as 32 cards.
Characters playing in this mode are often protected against being killed by other players and/or having their possessions stolen.
By the language used in videogame magazines of the time, it appears that the word was nascent in 1986 and a common expression by 1987.
These games originated from pen and paper games such as Dungeons & Dragons and when put on the screen, did not require any spoken dialogue, since the games' plot and mechanics were all picture and motion based.
See also Player versus player Cooperative gameplay Deathmatch Single player video game == References ==
In some cases, a player may run through repeated career cycles to sacrifice character youth for additional skills, experience and material advancement.
These games were extremely popular among the upper and middle classes in the United Kingdom and in the United States during the Victorian era.
An odds compiler (or trader) is a person employed by a bookmaker or betting exchange who sets the odds for events (such as sporting outcomes) for customers to place bets on.
seat Position relative to the dealer: for example, in bridge, the dealer's left-hand opponent is said to be in second seat.
Modern practice In informal games, most players still announce "check"; however, this is no longer required under the rules of chess and is not encouraged in formal games (Just & Burg 2003:28).
Spawn camping is a practice where a player waits near precise spawn points to kill enemies as they spawn.
See Job 2:4 (NIV) The interaction between God and Satan testing Job, and Satan stating "skin for skin" because although Job was losing everything his own personal skin was not affected, he had "no skin in the game" so to speak.
In video gaming, an achievement (or a trophy) is a meta-goal defined outside a game's parameters, a digital reward that signifies a player's mastery of a specific task or challenge within a video game.
For example, a "swords and sorcery" fantasy game might offer splatbooks for each of the races in the setting: humans, dwarves, elves, and others.
The two players raise alternately until one passes whereupon the next player enters the bidding by passing or raising further.
Among the many possibilities in the Queen's Gambit Declined are the Orthodox Defense, Lasker Defense, the Cambridge Springs Defense, the Tartakower Variation, and the Tarrasch and Semi-Tarrasch Defenses.
Gameplay BotFighters was a location-based mobile game and a pervasive game, that made use of the positioning technology of a mobile phone in playing the game.
In Ultima Online and Asheron's Call, a rift formed between those who enjoyed PKing, those who enjoyed hunting the PKs and those who simply did not want to fight at all.
Others such as Pac-Man, Wizard of Wor, and some games in the Bomberman series, have a boundary surrounding most of the playing area, but have a few paths connecting the left side to the right, or the top to the bottom, that characters can travel on.
Examples include those granted because an apprentice is riding, for three-year-olds running against older horses, or for female horses running against male horses.
Potential screen damage Prolonged display (that stays on the screen in a fixed position, remaining static) of HUD elements on certain CRT-based screens may cause permanent damage in the form of burning into the inner coating of the television sets.
The concept of mana was introduced in Europe by missionary Robert Henry Codrington in 1891 and was popularized by Mircea Eliade in the 1950s.
Quadrupled pawns occurred in the game Alexander Alekhine–Vladimir Nenarokov, 1907, in John van der Wiel–Vlastimil Hort, 1981, and in other games.
Symbol: or beater Term used in games of the Karnöffel family for quasi-trump cards able to beat those of lower rank or with no powers at all.
Sections 201 to 206, including section 206, make all types of gambling, betting and lotteries illegal throughout Canada with very limited exceptions, such as betting-mutuel on horse racing (provided for in section 204).
White cannot take the black rook since that loses his queen to the fork 3...Nd4+, but the alternative 3.cxd5 exd5+ 4.Kxd5 (again, taking the rook loses the queen to the fork 4...Nd4+) Be6+ would leave White with no good defense.
(defunct) Nanogames Nanogames are smaller than microgames and often consist of nine or fewer cards, with a few other components.
Bauernschnapsen In Bauernschnapsen, a variant of Schnapsen for four players, the term Schneider is used in a different way.
It is common in skill-limited systems for a spellcaster to be able to combine multiple magical skills to perform effects not covered by the skills given.
Undermining (also known as removal of the guard, or removing the defender) is a chess tactic in which a defensive piece is captured, leaving one of the opponent's pieces undefended or under-defended.
Such packs are common in Austria, Germany, north Italy, Hungary and several other countries in eastern Europe.
Although the house has a statistical edge on the expected return, the casino has no control over variance.
After White chooses one of the handful of legal king moves available, Black will capture the white queen.
Multi denotes the use of an alternate account to the advantage of the primary character, which many games consider cheating.
The popularity of these passes grew significantly in 2018 with the use in Epic Games' Fortnite Battle Royale.
Role of the second player The second player's role is pivotal in co-op video games, fundamentally altering the gaming experience by introducing a dynamic element of cooperation.
banking game A less-skilled card game of the gambling type in which one or more punters play against a banker, who controls the game.
(Black can draw in the diagrammed position by playing 1...Qxf2+.) In a game between Gunnar Gundersen and Albert H.
rest A man is said to 'rest' when he pauses on an intermediate point in moving the total of two or more dice.
The true threat to player immersion is not the mere existence of invisible walls, but whether they are consistent and credible within the game world.
The company explained their previous iterations as Niantic Labs@Google (Ingress 1.0) to Niantic Inc (Ingress 2.0), and Niantic Spatial (Ingress 3.0).
Autosave is a saving function in many computer applications and video games which automatically saves the current changes or progress in the program or game, intending to prevent data loss should the user be otherwise prevented from doing so manually by a crash, freeze or user error.
So, for example, in an auction if two players bid the same ranking contract and play is clockwise, the player nearest the dealer's left hand usually has priority.
A typical city-building game or 4X game, for example, requires the player to regulate taxation and production levels in order to keep their industries and commerce flowing.
A card that is unguarded by other, usually lower cards in the same suit: "I held the blank king of spades." To discard in such a way as to leave a card unprotected: "She blanked the king of spades." To void a suit.
(2012), the Bloons Tower Defense series (2007-2021), and more have (varyingly) adapted the RTS format in the same manner as Clash of Clans, and in turn developed a style of RTS unique to the mobile game industry.
A bonus stage (also known as a bonus level, bonus round, or special stage) is a special video game level that awards the player a rapid windfall of benefits such as points, items, or money.
shuffle Rearrange (a deck of cards) by sliding the cards over each other quickly.(verb) An act of shuffling a deck of cards.
The game's campaign mode was designed primarily for single player, but the difficulty was tweaked to compensate for extra human players.
While the federal Code is the applicable prohibitionist law, all regulations (and regulatory bodies) are provincial, with one exception - pari-mutuel betting on horse racing, which is regulated by the federal Canadian agency Pari-Mutuel.
Virtual real estate is earn real world money, example a 43-year-old Wonder Bread deliveryman, John Dugger, purchased a virtual real estate for $750, setting him back more than a weeks wages.
May be 'fixed', in which case the players play together for the entire session, or 'floating', in which case partners vary from deal to deal, sometimes called an alliance.
is not sitting out because there are more players than the game is designed for as in four-hand Skat or five-hand Schafkopf).
As mobile gaming became popular during the 2010s, app stores such as the Google Play Store have predominantly featured games which utilize "knockoffs" of popular IPs in a similar format.
A defending piece is said to be "tied down" to the pawn, since it must stay rooted to the spot until the attacking piece has moved.
For example, in Briscola, the 3-face valued card is ranked between the Ace and King, and is worth 10 points.
Did not finish (DNF) A horse that did not finish the race, for any of a number of reasons Distance A recorded margin of difference between the winning horse and a competitor so great that the actual length wasn't measured.
Deflections are often used as part of a combination which may involve other types of chess tactics as well.
A Semi-Open Game is a chess opening in which White plays 1.e4 and Black breaks symmetry immediately by replying with a move other than 1...e5.
The odds are influenced by betting volume so that a selection receiving a high volume of liquidity may have the odds for it cut.
Compared to forks by other pieces, a queen fork requires more specific conditions to be helpful due to the queen's higher value.
spilikin A small peg of bone, wood, ivory, etc., used for taking the score at Cribbage and other games.
They are traditionally referred to as follows: Eldest hand (or elder hand) the player who enjoys greatest priority and e.g.
See also Chess tactics Fork Pin X-ray Notes References Hooper, David; Whyld, Kenneth (1996) [First pub.
However, if not enough time sinks are implemented, players may feel the game is too short or too easy, causing them to abandon the game much sooner out of boredom.
Similar terms in other languages In Korean, the equivalent term is chobo or hasu, the opposite of gosu, meaning "highly skilled".
Deflection in chess is a tactic that forces an opposing piece to leave the square, rank or file it occupies, thus exposing the king or a valuable piece.
Active Time Battle has been noted by critics as a revolutionary step in the genre as well as a defining aspect of the series' Super Nintendo and PlayStation era games and of Final Fantasy as a whole.
The longest completed subathon was held by TieflingMelissa at 500 days, followed by Brazilian streamer oMeiaUm at 383 days, which concluded in May 2025.
H hand The cards held by one player ("playing hand") The player holding the cards, as in "Third hand bid 1♠." Synonymous with the noun usage of deal.
NASA TT competition will take place during NASA HPDE-4 sessions or in separate TT run groups, depending on the event schedule and number of participants.
The opponent is compelled to move the more valuable piece to avoid its capture, thereby exposing the less valuable piece which can then be captured (see chess piece relative value).
R raise To name a higher contract than one has called previously because one has been overcalled To increase one's stake To increase the game value rank The position of a card relative to others in the same suit.
Minecraft allows players to gather materials by exploring in caves, on the surface, and by other means.
The player may also plant high-value chips underneath one or more low-value chips visible on top, further reducing the payment for lost rounds.
bonus An extra amount added to a player's score for the game for holding or winning certain cards or for achieving certain goals, such as Schneider.
See the glossary of contract bridge terms which covers contract bridge, duplicate bridge, and auction bridge; some of the terms are also used in whist, bid whist, and other trick-taking games.
Earliest uses probably date to late twentieth century United States Armed Forces jargon, though possible precursor terms date much earlier.
He stated that "fast travel removes all sense of real distance", citing Dark Souls, a game that was designed around walking, as evoking the concept and emotions of a journey much more, and stating that the removal of any boredom also eliminates the feeling of a "real quest".
Development Once collectible card games became popular after the advent of Magic: The Gathering, new technology was needed for two reasons.
Description Sets are one of the two types of meld that may be used in games where melding is part of the play; the other being a run or sequence.
This can be eliminated either by adjusting one of the pair's values randomly up or down by a small amount, or reduced to an arbitrarily low probability by choosing a sufficiently wide range of random number choices.
For example: "The structures of player interaction with the game system and with other players in the game." "Gameplay here is seen as the interactive gaming process of the player with the game." Theorists also agree that video game gameplay is distinct from graphics and audio elements.
Game programming requires substantial skill in software engineering and computer programming in a given language, as well as specialization in one or more of the following areas: simulation, computer graphics, artificial intelligence, physics, audio programming, and input.
This led to the creation of a variety of parlour games to allow these gentlemen and ladies to amuse themselves at small parties.
Cribbage board Scoring equipment comprising a wooden board with holes and pegs used for keeping score in Cribbage but also used for dominoes.
Najdorf with black pieces has a substantial material advantage, but due to Black's poor king safety, White has a forced win.
The 2001 game Grand Theft Auto III has no dialogue for its protagonist, Claude, as is common for games of its time, and this allows players of many backgrounds and personalities to identify with the character they control in the game's open world environment.
Symbol: discard To get rid of plain suit cards when unable to follow suit and unwilling or unable to trump.
The stage of the game during which the players' hands are depleted by plays to tricks or to a common pile, etc.
It replaced turn-based gameplay with a system of timers, allowing both protagonists and enemies to attack at their own pace, even while navigating menus.
Determining systems Determining systems is a matter of using computer analysis tools and extracting all the possible games that meet a bettor's criteria.
Culture "Kusoge" is in essence a disparaging term, and is typically used to recommend against a video game.
The other players must interrogate them for further details about the three statements; the hot-seated player must tell the truth in connection with the two true statements, but may lie to conceal the falsity of the untrue statement.
cut [a suit] To play all of a suit except the double, leaving the player with the double unable to domino.
A queen fork can often lead to material or positional gain, however, when the forked pieces are undefended, poorly coordinated, or when one piece is the king.
For example, if one manages to perform eight out-shuffles in a row, then the deck of 52 cards will be restored to its original order, because 2 8 ≡ 1 ( mod 51 ) {\displaystyle 2^{8}\equiv 1{\pmod {51}}} .
by laying one's hand down or saying "the rest are mine" in expectation that the opponents will concede.
See also 996 working hour system 2016–2017 video game voice actor strike Black company (Japan) John Henryism Rat race Stakhanovite movement Workaholic Workplace stress Emotional exhaustion References === Works cited ===
bid An offer to win a minimum or specified number of tricks or points or the privilege of naming the trump suit or the game.
After 2.Rb3, however, Black can only save the knight with 2...Rxb5 3.Rxb5, leaving White an exchange up instead of just a pawn.
Some video games consist entirely of minigames which tie into an overall theme, such as Olympic Decathlon (1980).
An apprentice is required to ride a given number of winners in a specified period of time before completing their apprenticeship.
Pikmin Bloom was downloaded two million times in two weeks after its launch, and as of April 2024, the game had grossed $44 million since its release.
By late 1995, it was estimated that Doom was installed on more computers than the Microsoft Windows operating system.
Black therefore loses his bishop for no compensation—and Black has no good continuation because of the threat of Qxa8 or Qxc8, for example, 1...Qa6 2.Qxa8!
Players have indeed been noted to actively switch from MnK to controller for competitive advantages.
In Proceedings of the 2009 Conference on Future Play on @ GDC Canada (Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, May 12–13, 2009).
double-eight dominoes, double-eight set, double 8s, double eight Domino set, common in Austria, made up of 45 tiles with all the combinations from 0 to 8.
The term zugzwang was used in German chess literature in 1858 or earlier, and the first known use of the term in English was by World Champion Emanuel Lasker in 1905.
In video games using procedural world generation, the map seed is a (relatively) short number or text string which is used to procedurally create the game world ("map").
underforce or under-force To answer a card with one of the same suit, but inferior value to those remaining in hand; e.g.
A faster TAS was also achieved at 4:54.032 (4:57.31 in TAS timing), though it performs simultaneous left and right inputs, which are impossible to achieve with standard NES controllers and are prohibited by the rules.
Stops family, Stops group A family or group of matching games in which cards must be played in ascending sequence and usually in suit.
In newsgroups, these were called *books (the asterisk on a computer keyboard being used as a wildcard character).
The en passant capture is the only capturing move in chess where the capturing piece moves to a square not occupied by the captured piece.
Bottom dealing experts include Persi Diaconis, Darwin Ortiz, Steve Forte, Daniel Madison, Jason England and Richard Turner.
Some games use a real-time conversation system, giving the player only a few seconds to respond to a non-player character, such as Sega's Sakura Wars and Alpha Protocol.
Development started in 2008, only a year after the first iPhone was released, with $2.5 million of venture capital funding.
This license includes police background checks and credit rating checks, to help determine if they are eligible to commence employment.
Alexey Izotov argues that some game-makers promote this culture of hype by overpromising on features they can't deliver, as well as poor communication with gaming audiences in general.
The name refers to posting games on the scorekeeping mechanism known as a wire or scoring string, though the phrase may still be employed when no actual use of the particular device is available or intended.
Trick-avoidance games like reversis or polignac are those in which the aim is to avoid taking some or all tricks.
Players can also complete location-based challenges by walking or running through their real-life surroundings.
Another variation involves setting aside a portion of each win as profit that is not used for future bets.
Players also can craft oils and potions with portable crafting stations that require repair after overuse to gain advantages in combat, while bombs can be purchased, found or even crafted later on.
This fact may be known because "in the last letter ever written by the former president, he mentions two formerly-enslaved individuals—William and Liz.
(This would have made her 13 or 14 years old at the time of her marriage if she was born in 1923; 17 or 18 if born in 1919.) Patricia and Arthur remained married for nearly 50 years until his death in January 1987.
He returned to England in December 1554 in the train of Emmanuel Philibert, Duke of Savoy, after obtaining an amnesty against his creditors' suits, possibly thanks to the Duke of Suffolk.
It also placed a bust of him near the African Union headquarters in 2002, and arranged for a statue of Pushkin to be transferred from Moscow to Addis Ababa in 2014.
Given that the official website for Enrico's orders makes no mention of a current head of his house, it is unclear if Gianluca, or any other relative, claimed the position.
A novel by Tobias Smollett refers mockingly to "Psalmanazar, who, after having drudged half a century in the literary mill in all the simplicity and abstinence of an Asiatic, subsists on the charity of a few booksellers, just sufficient to keep him from the parish".
A recent photo of the box hedging is on The Friend website however the planting does not match the planting in a much older black and white photograph in the National Trust's Peckover House collection online, notably the '7' and the '4'.
Simon spread a rumour that Warwick had actually escaped from the Tower and was under his guardianship.
On 6 January 1745, the minutes of Trinity House at Deptford record that 'Mr Thomas Dunckerley being Examin'd & found Qualify'd to be a School Master in her Majesty's Navy & having produc'd a certificate (as usual) of his Sobriety & good Affection to his Majesty, he was certify'd accordingly'.
The pope was forbidden by canon law to publicly recognize children and did not wish that Giovanni Borgia should suffer in his inheritance as a consequence.
While she was legally the daughter of Sir Henry Hozier, her mother Lady Blanche's known infidelity and his suspected infertility makes her paternity uncertain.
On the sundial's base, she had inscribed: Clementine edited and rehearsed Churchill's speeches, as well as managing and attending high-level diplomatic summits.
She was accepted into the Spanish aristocracy, becoming a dame of the Order of Queen Maria Luisa and introducing the tradition of the Christmas tree into Spain.
According to the historian Lhoumeau at this time Lanssac was in the clientele of the Lorraine-Guise family.
He usurped the throne on the death of Silo, the husband of his half sister Adosinda, earning himself the nickname of the Usurper.
He feared that linking the cause of women's suffrage to that of Black men would result in failure for both.
Sally returned to Monticello and remained a domestic servant in the main house and she also became Jefferson's chambermaid.
The Yorkist leaders were determined on a serious push, rising of their party in England supported by as great a force as possible from overseas.
This is unlikely, as the Royal Arch degree was worked for at least a decade before Dunckerley's initiation.
In 1509, Bucy consecrated the Church of Saint-Aignan after six additional chapels were added to its nave and other extensive reconstruction efforts were completed.
Philosophical discourse presenting ("containing") a distinct idea of what belongs either to the mind or to our living and organic body.
Forbey (October 9, 1873 – 1965) — Charles used the spelling Forbey; he married Esther Kent and had several children, and died in Missouri at the age 92.
One of Enrico's chief defenders in Taiwan was Lin Fu-Shen, a former law professor at the National Taiwan University who had been fired due to sexual harassment.
Attempts to broker international disarmament agreements were collapsed and the politicians were unwilling in depressed economic conditions to invest in new equipment or expand military pay.
Since 1998 and the DNA study, most historians have accepted that the widower Jefferson had a long intimate relationship with Hemings, and fathered six children with her, four of whom survived to adulthood.
The spouses were dissimilar: while Louise Augusta was extroverted, lively, beautiful and pleasure-loving, her spouse was unattractive, serious, interested in philosophy and politics.
on the Columbia Broadcasting System radio network, William Andrew Johnson was the only Knoxvillian who had ever been interviewed on We the People.
Biography Arthur Plantagenet was born between 1461 and 1475 in Calais, which was then an English possession in France.
While in Dieppe, the family became well acquainted with 'La Colonie', or the other English inhabitants living by the sea.
In A Modest Proposal Jonathan Swift ridicules Psalmanazar in passing, sardonically citing "the famous Salamanaazor, a Native of the island of Formosa, who came from thence to London, above twenty Years ago," as an eminent proponent of cannibalism.
The winter of 1862–63 was extremely rough for Delacroix; he was suffering from a severe throat infection that worsened over the course of the season.
His appeal not only derived from his exotic ways, which tapped into a growing domestic interest in travel narratives describing faraway locales, but also played upon the prevailing anti-Catholic and anti-Jesuit religious sentiment of early 18th-century Britain.
A great friend of Félix Dupanloup, bishop of Orléans, she lived a simple and devout life until her death on 12 October 1890.
He returned to Ireland in 1570, where he fitted out a ship at Waterford and made a great show of his piety, proceeding through the streets of the city on his knees as he offered himself up to God.
In 1806, he was assassinated by members of his own administration and dismembered by a violent mob shortly thereafter.
Some of Polish soldiers sent to Saint-Domingue deserted and joined the Haitian rebels in their quest for independence, and about 400 settled on the island after the war.
In 1194 Geoffrey went into debt to the crown for the sum of 3000 marks to buy the office of Sheriff of Yorkshire for himself.
As the wife of a politician who often took controversial stands, Clementine was used to being snubbed and treated rudely by the wives of other politicians.
Of unclear origins, his critics maintained that he had been born to an unmarried Italian woman of humble origins.
Philosophical career and later life Amo returned to the University of Halle to lecture in philosophy under his preferred name of Antonius Guilielmus Amo Afer.
The Dublin King: The True Story of Edward Earl of Warwick, Lambert Simnel and the 'Princes in the Tower'.
Sancho received many prominent visitors at his shop, including statesman and abolitionist Charles James Fox, who successfully steered a resolution through Parliament pledging it to abolish the slave trade.
In 1801, Dessalines quickly ended an insurrection in the north led by Louverture's nephew, General Moyse.
Senator Kenneth McKellar requested the same, at which time Johnson was said to be in the "alms house." Johnson was invited to be a guest on Gabriel Heatter's We the People radio show on the CBS network between Christmas and New Year's.
She was engaged, but her bridegroom was killed in an accident when their coach overturned on their wedding day.
Recent studies also claim to refute his own version of his parentage, although Arthur Edward Waite certainly accepted it, perhaps based on his resemblance to George III in his portrait.
In response to the accusations against him, Enrico accused various Asian magazines and TV channels of "smearing his humanitarian activities".
Thanks to existing plans to invade Ireland he was able to react speedily to the invasion and had begun mustering troops as early as February.
Early life and education In 1773, Jefferson and his wife Martha Wayles Skelton Jefferson had inherited Sally Hemings, her mother Betty Hemings and ten siblings from the estate of her father John Wayles, along with more than 100 other slaves.
Speculations about the child's parentage involve either Lucrezia Borgia with her alleged lover, Perotto Calderon or Cesare Borgia, or Pope Alexander VI as his father.
Matilda became the abbess of the Montivilliers Abbey, and for that reason is best known as Maud of Montivilliers.
Thus he lost two crucial days before finally adopting the solution, however obvious, of his predecessor.
Since a son of hers could one day ascend the throne, it would be advantageous to arrange a marriage early, and to marry the "half-royal" back into the family, to the Hereditary Prince of Augustenborg.
She left in disguise, perhaps in Quaker's dress, and went north, ending in Wisbech, working first in fields and then as a spinner.
In February 1119, Eustace and Juliane threatened to join a rebellion against Henry I of England unless they were given the castle of Ivry.
In his 1873 memoir, Madison Hemings stated that Thomas Jefferson was the father of all of Sally Hemings’ surviving children.
He swindled a million dollars from Jay Gould (equivalent to 27 million dollars in 2025), who was fighting for control of the Erie Railroad, and then fled to Canada.
After his master's arrest in 1551 a warrant was issued against him, but he succeeded in escaping to France, where he served in the French army.
This lasted until she was looking through some documents and accidentally found a note for an assignation between Charles and his mistress.
In this role, he is believed to have assisted in the plantation's cooperage (barrel-making) and, more significantly, in the construction and fine woodworking at Jefferson's second plantation home and periodic retreat, Poplar Forest in Bedford County, Virginia, about 80 miles to the southwest.
Gustav Ungerer, for his part, considers that Corsi's six months in the Tower of London from October 1549 to March 1550 were the sentence handed down by the court.
The first from 1784 is in Royal Collection, London, and the second from 1787 is in the Frederiksborg Palace Museum.
In 1918 Weygand served on the armistice negotiations, and it was Weygand who read out the armistice conditions to the Germans at Compiègne, in the railway carriage.
Personal life In 1839, Pauline de Talleyrand-Périgord married Henri de Castellane (1814–1847), eldest son of the marshal de Castellane.
Following the war, Adolf Hitler's former lawyer, Hans Frank, claimed that Hitler told him in 1930 that one of his relatives was trying to blackmail him by threatening to reveal his alleged Jewish ancestry.
Through his mother's Hanks bloodline, George Clooney is related to Nancy Hanks through Lucy Hanks Sparrow and Henry Sparrow's daughter, Mary Ann Sparrow, a half-sister to Nancy Hanks.
They were successful, but they were stopped and arrested by the North-West Mounted Police before they could return to the United States.
He claims that he attained fluency in Latin by the age of seven or eight, and excelled in competition with children twice his age.
In October 1200 Geoffrey refused to allow the collection of carucage, a tax on land, on his property, and his lands were confiscated in retaliation.
A play generally assigned to George Peele, The Battell of Alcazar with the Death of Captain Stukely, printed in 1594, was probably acted in 1592.
He married Eleonora Romano of Gorizia and had two daughters: Maria Anna of Drisht (1674 - 14 August 1694).
Henry had been receiving information about events in Ireland, although it was vague and conflicting.
On 19 December 2023 a stone memorial was unveiled at St Margaret's Church, Westminster, where Ignatius and Ann Sancho were married in 1758.
There they took the surname Jefferson, and they passed into the European-American (white) community.
Clementine Ogilvy Spencer-Churchill, Baroness Spencer-Churchill, (née Hozier; 1 April 1885 – 12 December 1977) was the wife of Winston Churchill, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, and a life peer in her own right.
Reign of Henry III Council and office Having returned to France on the death of his brother, Anjou now styled himself king Henry III.
At the station at Warsaw on 25 August he was consoled by the award of the Virtuti Militari, 2nd class; at Paris on the 28th he was cheered by crowds lining the platform of the Gare de l'Est, kissed on both cheeks by the premier, Alexandre Millerand.
One month after Alois accepted a better-paying position in Linz, on 1 April 1893 his wife and the children moved to a second floor room at Kapuzinerstrasse 31 in Passau.
Giovanni is born malformed and deemed likely to die in a few days, but is healed by a powerful artifact.
Ö." Inconsistencies in Hauser's account led the Ansbach court of enquiry to suspect that he had stabbed himself and then invented a tale about being attacked.
The patent appointing John gave him all of the necessary powers of his position, except of appointing officers, which it reserved until he turned twenty-one; it does not indicate how close to turning twenty-one he was.
Adam is named as Ade filio domini Regis bastardo ("Adam, bastard son of the lord king") in Edward II's Wardrobe account of 1322.
Gustav Ungerer, for his part, translates "famulus" not as a "captive slave," but as a "domestic slave," working alongside free servants.
Because of their light skin and appearance (they were 7/8 European or octoroon), both identified with the white community and probably changed their names.
Thomas Dunckerley (23 October 1724 – 19 November 1795) was a prominent freemason, being appointed Provincial Grand Master of several provinces, promoting Royal Arch masonry, introducing Mark Masonry to England, and instituting a national body for Templar masonry.
Its heading read: The anonymous author of this letter said that he had assumed custody of Hauser as an infant on 7 October 1812.
Among the religious houses Geoffrey had disagreements with were Guisborough Priory, Meaux Abbey, and Fountains Abbey.
One Life: Frederick Douglass Exhibition at the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C., June 16, 2023 – April 21, 2024.
The magistrates of the city were reminded of their obligations to the pacification edict, and he implored both the Protestant and Catholic clergy to avoid incendiary sermons and live in good peace with their neighbours even if they were another religion.
His mother was identified in documents as Simonetta da Collevecchio, a servant of Alfonsina Orsini, grandmother of Alessandro.
After the exiles voiced their complaints to Charles, Florentine diplomat Francesco Guicciardini responded, “his Excellency’s virtue, his fame, the opinion of him held throughout the city, of his prudence, of his virtuous habits, are a sufficient reply".
Perhaps instigated by Amaury de Montfort, Eustace cut out the eyes of Ralph's son and sent him back to his father.
A consensus began to emerge after the results of a DNA analysis in 1998, which showed no match between the Carr male line, proposed for more than 150 years as the father(s), and the one Hemings descendant tested.
Clement’s choice increased tension between the Medici cousins; for the rest of Ippolito’s life, he spoke openly about wanting to overthrow Alessandro and lead Florence.
This theory is rejected by historians as most accounts place Metternich-Zichy in European circles, not Mexico, at the time Weygand was conceived.
He believed that the North Africans, in their attire and their attitudes, provided a visual equivalent to the people of Classical Rome and Greece: The Greeks and Romans are here at my door, in the Arabs who wrap themselves in a white blanket and look like Cato or Brutus...
Lake's son said that hours before her death in 1993, she confirmed and asked her family to publish the identities of her biological parents.
A stonemason was employed to remove the old headstone, and the plot was covered in white gravel and a tree, which has since been removed.
The Beninese historian Dieudonné Gnammankou, an expert on Russia, studied Russian, French and African sources and argued that Gannibal was indeed from Logone-Birni and was most likely the son of a chief in the ancient sultanate.
He also took effective command of the army group as alternate when Foch was in ill health; during tensions between Foch and subordinates, Weygand helped to mediate disputes.
Here, King Sebastian of Portugal invited Stucley to take up a command in his army, which included Portuguese and German mercenaries, in preparation for an invasion of Morocco (an ally of England against Spain) in an attack upon the Moors.
It was said that Stuart reaped and worked in gardens in the summer and did knitting and sewing in the winter.
Born enslaved, he is known primarily as a member of the household and workshop of painter Diego Velázquez, who freed him in 1650.
It was not until 1924 that Virginia passed the Racial Integrity Act, which classified anyone as black who had any known African ancestry, under the "one drop rule".
Contemporary accounts and later research suggest that Hemings and his siblings were afforded relatively privileged status compared with other enslaved people at Monticello, including training, lighter work, and eventual de facto freedom.
Hauser's account of life in a dungeon At first, most assumed that Hauser was a person with a developmental disability, who had wandered out of the forest.
Gordon-Gordon took this opportunity to flee to Canada where he convinced authorities that the allegations were false.
Some of his claims about Japanese religion seem to also be derived from a misinterpretation of the Chinese idea of three teachings, as he claims that there were three different forms of "idolatry" practiced in Japan.
Gordon-Gordon claimed that it was a smear campaign created by Gould and his associates, but the Canadian authorities considered the charges serious enough to deport him.
Today it forms the shape of a rectangle enclosing 'JS, AGE, 88, 1742' although in the past a drawing by Algernon Peckover showed it as forming "JS, aged 88, 1742" over the centuries parts appear to have required replanting.
From 1603 on, Alexander made frequent trips to northern and western Europe to gain support for his claim to the throne (visiting Florence, Madrid, Rome, Kraków, Antwerp, Prague, and other cities).
For two years until her death in 1751, Sancho worked as a butler for the Duchess of Montagu at her residence, where he immersed himself in music, poetry, reading, and writing.
Alois's grandson, William Patrick Hitler said that he had heard from his father, Alois Jr., that Alois Hitler Sr.
Hearst never divorced his wife, Millicent Willson, whom he married in 1903, but the couple maintained separate lives.
He then sailed from Waterford on 17 April, supposedly for London, but his real destination was Vimeiro, northwest of Lisbon.
Dame Harriet Walter portrayed her in the first series of Peter Morgan's Netflix drama The Crown, and she was played by Dame Kristin Scott Thomas in the 2017 film Darkest Hour.
After being made the chief military engineer of the Russian army in 1756, he received the rank of general-in-chief in 1759.
Approximately 400 men of the 3rd Polish Half-Brigade (renamed the 113th Line Infantry Half-Brigade on 2 September), out of 5,280 men of the unit, deserted the French and joined the rebels.
In 1501 he joined the household of his half-sister, the Queen Consort Elizabeth of York, and moved to the household of Henry VII after her death in 1503.
Bucy's mother has been the subject of debate: while some speculate that his mother was a count laundress, others believe that his mother was from the House of Amboises given that the Amboises controlled the lands of Bussy (Bucy).
before 1141) was the illegitimate daughter of King Henry I of England by one of his many mistresses.
Nine months later he was made hereditary duke by Charles, as Tuscany was technically part of the Holy Roman Empire.
After an incident in which Mehmed was injured by Ibrahim, in 1644 Sünbül Ağa left the harem with Zafire and Osman on the pretext of making the Hajj to Mecca.
Grigory Ivanovich Sophia Ivanovna Anastasia Ivanovna Nadezhda Ivanovna (19 August 1809), who married Vladimir Vladislavlev.
Imperial attack on Siena An Imperial army under the command of the marqués de Villefranca (marquis of Villefranca) started an advance on Siena, and captured various villages.
Lord Kildare collected an army of Irish soldiers under the command of his younger brother, Thomas FitzGerald of Laccagh.
The highest ideals of Locke, Hume and Kant were first proposed more than a century earlier by an Ethiopian in a cave".
His patronymic identifies him as the son of a Cináed (Kenneth), though modern historians debate whether this refers to Kenneth II of Scotland (Cináed mac Maíl Coluim) or Kenneth III of Scotland (Cináed mac Duib).
Seeing no other solution, Juliane agreed to a parley with her father, but when she met with him, she unsuccessfully shot at him with a crossbow.
On his recovery, with the help of Captain Ruthven of the Guadeloupe and the financial assistance of freemasons in Gibraltar, Dunckerley managed to lay his case before several persons of rank on his way back to England.
Simnel was paraded through the streets, carried on the shoulders of "the tallest man of the time", an individual called D'Arcy of Platten (this was evidently Sir William Darcy, an ally of Kildare, who is known to have been exceptionally tall).
The first evidence of Mark Masonry is in 1769, when Dunckerley, at a Royal Arch Chapter, made several brethren Mark Masons and Mark Masters.
It is an outrage upon the soul—a war upon the immortal spirit, and one for which you must give account at the bar of our common Father and Creator.
By 1860, after five years of service, he reached the rank of Finanzwach-Oberaufseher (Revenue guard Senior warden, analogous to an Army Corporal).
Although there are a variety of portraits that claim to contain Gannibal, there is little evidence to suggest the claims are accurate.
While Harriet and Beverly disappeared into history, more is known about the lives of their brothers Madison and Eston Hemings, who married in Charlottesville and began their families there.
Hitler kept Fanni Matzelsberger as his mistress while his lawful wife (Anna from whom he had separated) grew sicker and died on 6 April 1883.
In 1535, the exiles enlisted Cardinal Ippolito to meet with Emperor Charles V to denounce Alessandro's government; however, en route to the meeting, Ippolito died under questionable circumstances.
Her husband died suddenly on 26 February 1865 and she left their residence to live austerely in mourning.
He was the first to publish a critical summary of the ascertained facts, under the title of Kaspar Hauser, ein Beispiel eines Verbrechens am Seelenleben (1832).
His real name was John Crowningsfield and it was rumoured that he was the illegitimate son of a North Country clergyman and his family maid.
John and Etheldreda were wealthy enough to purchase the lordship of Kevelston, which had originally been part of a vast estate associated with the nunnery of Shaftesbury.
A reporter from the Columbia Record of Columbia, South Carolina visited the hotel and recorded some of Johnson's reminiscences: [He] would rather tell of "Marse Andrew" than do anything else in the world.
Working in the sugarcane fields as a laborer, Dessalines rose to the rank of commandeur, or foreman.
He fled to Burgundy, where Warwick's aunt Margaret of York, the Dowager Duchess of Burgundy, kept her court.
(Juvenile novel.) External links Juan de Pareja on artcyclopedia Juan de Pareja at the Museo del Prado.
William Beverly Hemings (April 1, 1798 – 1873), also referred to by family members as Beverley, was the son of Sally Hemings, an enslaved woman at Monticello, and widely believed to be the eldest son of Thomas Jefferson, the third President of the United States.
The balance of the estate went to her two married daughters but she also left some real estate, four acres of land in Greeneville, to Elizabeth Johnson Forby.
She had a close and warm relationship with her daughter and her son-in-law, but her relationship to her sons was tense.
Philip II invited him to Madrid, where he was loaded with honours, probably with a view to impressing upon Elizabeth the threat of an invasion of Ireland to detract from English support for the Dutch rebels in the Netherlands.
Those who argued against the secularisation of education (and against the rights of Africans in Europe) were regaining their ascendancy over those who campaigned for greater academic and social freedom, such as Christian Wolff.
In 1522, Cardinal Giulio purchased the title 'Duke of Penne' for Alessandro from Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor.
Churchill Archives Centre, Cambridge Portraits of Clementine Ogilvy Spencer-Churchill, Baroness Spencer-Churchill at the National Portrait Gallery, London Winston & Clementine Churchill - UK Parliament Living Heritage
References External links Thomas Jefferson's Monticello Sally Hemings and Her Children The Memoirs of Madison Hemings The Memoirs of Israel Jefferson Edmund Bacon, Mr.
Paul Johnson maintains that the "Masters" that Madame Blavatsky wrote about and produced letters from were actually idealizations of people who were her mentors.
However, when she died without issue, Richard kept the castle, and handed it over to his seneschal, Robert of Thornham.
A plaque on the Berkhamsted house where the young Clementine Hozier had lived during her education at Berkhamsted School for Girls was unveiled in 1979 by her youngest daughter, Baroness Soames.
In her final few years, inflation and rising expenses left Lady Spencer-Churchill in financial difficulties and in early 1977 she sold at auction five paintings by her late husband.
In the summer of 1899, when Clementine was 14, her mother moved the family to Dieppe, a coastal community in the north of France.
Richard himself noted John was still a minor (not being yet 21) when he issued the royal patent appointing him Captain of Calais on 11 March 1485, possibly on his seventeenth birthday.
He is first mentioned in Admiralty records on 19 February 1744, when, not quite twenty years of age, he was appointed schoolmaster on a seventy gun ship called HMS Edinburgh.
The couple had 10 children together: Varvara Ivanovna (1795), who married Nicholas Ovsyaniko-Kulikovsky and had four children.
He told a reporter a story of that era: "He was trying to keep Tennessee in the Union, and as he spoke on the capitol grounds, two shots were fired at him by secessionists.
The survival of a large collection of his correspondence in the Lisle Letters makes his life one of the best documented of his era.
Weygand remained as vice president of the Conseil until his mandatory retirement at the age of 68 in February 1935.
The second declared Giovanni Borgia instead to be the son of Pope Alexander VI himself and runs: "Since you bear this deficiency not from the said duke, but from us and the said woman, which we for good reasons did not desire to express in the preceding writing".
John is known to have been in Calais by November 1484 and was officially appointed Captain of Calais by his father on 11 March 1485.
A further reference to Philip is found in the pipe rolls for 1201 of his uncle, John, King of England: "Et Philippo f.
Like Andriscus, Alexander also claimed to be a son of the last legitimate Macedonian king Perseus (r.
Biography Juan de Pareja was a Spaniard born into slavery in Southern Spain, probably in Antequera in Malaga province around 1610.
Biography Early life Florence Johnson was born in the month of May, most likely in 1850, somewhere in the U.S.
However, the standard Ottoman practice at the time for determining the succession was not birth order of sons; instead the Ottoman laws of succession to the throne stated that after the death of their father, the Ottoman princes would fight among themselves until one emerged triumphant.
External links Alessandro de Medici PBS online page discussing his ancestry, and his heirs (Note: this article is known to contain at least one elementary error, involving the well-known Medici tombs.).
Most historians believe her father was Jefferson, who is now believed to have fathered, with his slave Sarah "Sally" Hemings, four children who survived to adulthood.
Every year they sacrificed the hearts of 18,000 young boys to gods, and their priests ate the bodies in an act of cannibalism.
He was also selected Privy Councilor, Governor of Calais, and Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports and named as Constable of Calais after the death of John Bourchier, 2nd Baron Berners on 16 March 1533.
A long list of arguments was invoked: they were, among other things, "vagabonds," "poor, corrupt," "faithless," "infidels," or "pagans." Yet, Jacques Francis is not mentioned in the motion, perhaps further proof that he was neither pagan nor a slave.
Between 1614 and 1617, he schemed with Serbian Orthodox Christian bishops in the Sanjak of Prizren and Western Roman Catholic bishops and leaders as part of his strategy to gain the Ottoman throne.
Paul Painlevé, French prime minister until 13 November, believed that Lloyd George was already pushing for Foch to be Supreme Allied Commander so wanted him as PMR not French Chief of Staff.
Early arranged for William Andrew Johnson to travel to Washington, D.C., to visit Roosevelt at the White House, and then "leaked" the meeting to the press.
One of the two newspaper notices of her death called her an "estimable colored woman," and listed her surname as Ford.
The Formosa Fraud: The Story of the Fake Writings of George Psalmanazar, One of the Greatest Charlatans in Literary History.
The informant on his death certificate was Liz and George's daughter Lillie Francis, a resident of Roanoke.
She is known to have traveled to several cities in Western Europe, and to have become a mistress of Count Philipp Ferdinand of Limburg Stirum, apparently in the hope that he would marry her.
However, Douglass believed that no covert racism was implied by the omission and stated that he was always warmly welcomed in presidential circles.
Sources describe his personality as being shy, modest and unassuming, and he appears to have wanted to lead a reclusive monastic lifestyle rather than claim any royal rights of succession for himself.
In May 1801, he was appointed as the commander of the Danube Legion, which was renamed the 3rd Polish Half-Brigade on 21 December.
In 1668–1669, he traveled to Candia and Zante in an attempt to implement this scheme, but failed to secure any meaningful support and the plan fell apart.
Weygand travelled to Warsaw expecting to assume command of the Polish army, yet those expectations were quickly dashed.
At the age of seven, he was transferred to the household of David Cohen, an Italo-Belgian leather merchant in Marseille, with partner Thérèse Denimal (later de Nimal).
After joining the French army, he died of yellow fever in 1802 in Saint-Domingue, after being sent there as part of the Saint-Domingue expedition, which saw Polish troops fighting alongside the French to restore slavery in the colony.
On 16 June 1487 the rebels clashed with the King's army, at the Battle of Stoke Field in Nottinghamshire, and were defeated.
Pierre was given a dispensation, owing to his illegitimate birth, from Pope Honorius III which allowed him to hold ecclesiastical benefices.
Lincoln's grave was filled, my father, Peter Brooner, extended his hand to Thomas Lincoln and said, 'We are brothers now', meaning that they were brothers in the same kind of sorrow.
See also Perkin Warbeck – who claimed to be Richard of Shrewsbury, Duke of York John Deydras – who claimed to be the true Edward II Mary Baynton – who claimed to be Princess Mary Tudor References Ashley, Mike (2002).
Like Louverture before him, Dessalines demanded that all blacks work either as soldiers to defend the nation or as laborers on the plantations, in order to continue production of the raise the cash crops that had been foundation of the colonial economy.
Not long after marrying his first wife, Alois began an affair with Franziska "Fanni" Matzelsberger, one of the young female servants employed at the Pommer Inn, house number 219, in the town Braunau am Inn, where he was renting the top floor as a lodging.
This intellectual background enabled them to provide Fitzjames and William Coningham with an exceptionally high level of education.
Passerini was extremely unpopular with the anti-Medici faction in Florence, as well as with members of the Medici family such as Clarice Strozzi, daughter of Piero the Unfortunate.
Alexander believed that as the next oldest son of Murad III, he was next in line to be Ottoman Sultan and felt cheated out of his rightful destiny.
Jay discusses his feelings about taking cows to the abattoir, and his feeling that he was betraying his cows.
When eating any fungus for the first time, only a small quantity of one species should be consumed at a time, allowing for several hours to identify any potential allergic reaction.
Travis shocks Maren by asking her to eat him, though he later apologizes and offers to drive her to her next destination.
Ingredients Unsweetened: purified water, almonds, cashews, natural flavors, bicarbonate soda, rice starch, sea salt.
Internationally, Oatly also offers on the go, single-serve beverages packaged in silver containers that resemble cans, but are made of recyclable paper.
This thick consistency batter is then shaped in a palm in a cylindrical form, and served with lettuce and vegetables on side.
Maude Polikoff, former erotic dancer, reveals she left the career as milk and dairy were used in a sexualised way, in spite of being unethically obtained.
The world leader in production of dry beans (Phaseolus spp), is India, followed by Myanmar (Burma) and Brazil.
Composition Soy yogurt may have a slight beany soy taste when made directly from freshly prepared soy milk, but this is less pronounced in shop-bought soy yogurt and in soy yogurt made from commercial soy milk.
Ongoing discussion considers evidential standards, potential regulatory and economic costs, and the scope of moral consideration across diverse biological taxa and computational substrates.
Caspian cuisine-style bready koloocheh cookies can be made vegan by replacing butter with coconut oil.
Christian missionary groups are particularly interested in debunking Ching Hai even though they may have no direct contact with the organization.
The film is available in English, Hindi, Gujarati, Marathi, and Tamil languages, with additional Telugu dubbing on its way.
The concept was to ensure that vegan children or those with food allergies or intolerance could have traditional seasonal chocolates such as Easter eggs and Advent calendars.
Craig Cobb Craig Cobb, who operated the video-sharing website Podblanc, has attempted to take over small towns in the Midwestern United States.
Hosted by actor Mena Massoud and based in part on his own previously published vegan cookbook of the same name, the series features Massoud travelling to various cities to meet with vegan chefs who are building reputations as leaders and innovators in vegan cuisine.
One special type of bee known as the wool carder bee collects the fuzz from the leaves to use for making nests in decayed wood.
Dominick's Animal Liberation and Social Revolution pamphlet in 1995, combines the Circle-V with the Circle-A of anarchist symbolism.
As an academic field, vegan studies examines how veganism shapes and is shaped by culture, ethics, politics, and representation, offering a framework for understanding vegan identity and its social implications.
Crossroads Kitchen is a vegan fine-dining restaurant with locations in the San Fernando Valley, the Beverly Grove neighborhood of Los Angeles, and Las Vegas.
See also Vegetarian and Vegan Restaurants in Singapore List of vegetarian restaurants Lists of restaurants List of hamburger restaurants References External links Official website
The community was dedicated to a regime of spiritual development and purification – in the words of Greaves, aiming to produce the "most loveful, intelligent and efficient conditions for divine progress in humanity".
Glover is the co-founder of the Veganuary movement and uses his experience in vegan activism to promote the brand.
References External links Media related to Penedo (Itatiaia) at Wikimedia Commons Penedo travel guide from Wikivoyage
Health effects The makers of Soylent claim it contains the nutrients necessary for a healthy lifestyle.
Essene bread Essene bread is a simple form of sprouted grain bread made from sprouted wheat and prepared at a low temperature.
The documentary discusses an issue of billions of dollars being spent on medical care, experimental medicines and revolutionary health-enhancing technologies, but still, more Americans are suffering from debilitating chronic illness.
HealthyTop Whipping Cream: purified water, coconut oil, sugar, maltodextrin, almonds, cashews, almond oil, sunflower lecithin, guar gum, natural flavors, polyglycerol esters of fatty acids, sorbitan monostearate.
to pastured, grass-fed systems would require 30% more cattle, increase beef's methane emissions by 43%, and would require much more land than is available.
See also Ethics of eating meat List of vegan and plant-based media References Bibliography Pilisuk, Marc, Joy, M.
The documentary premiered in London and Los Angeles in September 2021, where it was then made available for online streaming.
First produced commercially in January 2007 in Albany, New York, by Green Rabbit LLC, MimicCreme was primarily marketed toward vegans as an alternative to dairy products.
Humans produce vitamin D naturally in response to sun exposure and ultraviolet light (UV) acting on skin to stimulate vitamin D synthesis.
[...] Our hearts go out to all those impacted by this ordeal, to their families, as well as the authorities who ensured that no lives were lost.
lanata), the lamb's-ear (lamb's ear) Monty plant or woolly hedgenettle, is a species of flowering plant in the mint family Lamiaceae, native to Armenia, Iran, and Turkey.
During these, some activists held TV screens with documentary footage about animal cruelty in the meat, dairy, egg, and fur industries while others talked to passers-by about veganism.
Richardson further reports that hunger strikes and opposition to force-feeding were followed, on release, by public breakfasts at the Eustace Miles, where medals were presented beginning with Marion Wallace Dunlop.
The head injury clinic was closed, the university's chief veterinarian was fired, and the university was put on probation.
Commercial production Nutritional yeast is produced by culturing yeast in a nutrient medium for several days.
Background The black bean has a dense, meaty texture, which makes it popular in vegetarian dishes, such as frijoles negros and the Mexican-American black bean burrito.
Etymology From Middle Persian [Book Pahlavi needed] (kwlʾck' /kulāčag/, “small, round bun”) See also Kolompeh Ma'amoul Murabbalı mecidiye == References ==
In 1979, the Van Dykes created the first S/M workshop at the Michigan Womyn's Music Festival, which caused controversy.
Peaceable Kingdom, produced in 2004 by Tribe of Heart, is a documentary about several farmers who refuse to kill animals and how they convert to veganism as a way of life.
VBites is a plant-based food manufacturer and brand (mainly meat alternatives and vegan cheeses) that develops 140 products and retails in 24 countries worldwide.
Follow Your Heart is a vegan and vegetarian food company that began in 1970 as a restaurant in Canoga Park, California.
When used, the terms for this food are rendered in katakana as グルテンミート (Romanized "gurutenmīto", from the English "gluten meat"), or, rarely, セイタン ("seitan").
His work helped popularize nut-based meat alternatives, particularly among the health-conscious elite.
It may be made at home using rice flour and brown rice protein, or by boiling brown rice with a large volume of water, blending and filtering the mixture.
The word köfte derives from Persian, ultimately from the Proto-Indo-European root "*(s)kop–" (grind, pound, beaten).
Ohhh, Ohhh, Vitalite." References External links Vitalite dairy free spread – official site Vitalite advert on YouTube
In addition to the state charges, the council demanded a fine totalling 50,000 euros from ten people, which was then reduced to 33,000 euros.
I Could Never Go Vegan is a 2024 British documentary film directed by Thomas Pickering, which explores the plant-based lifestyle and its impact on individuals and society.
Reception In 2013, Travel + Leisure named Crossroads Kitchen one of the best vegetarian restaurants in the U.S.
Influences According to Francis Lam, Terry has said his "approach to cooking is inspired by hip-hop producers", which Lam describes as "taking a little bit of this, taking a little bit of that, and remixing things." The recipes are vegan and based around the flavors of the African diaspora.
Other listings include vegan friendly accommodation, social and activity groups, and other entities with consideration for animal compassion.
Vegan activists were included on the CUE TV's news bulletin and gave a soft toy dog to an animal-skin-preserving factory.
Taco sauce is a popular sauce for people to get on a chicken fillet roll; it is a mayonnaise-based sauce, which typically consists of ketchup, mayonnaise, mustard, and seasonings.
The interior design emphasizes brightness and open circulation, with centrally arranged buffet counters intended to facilitate efficient movement.
Some adherents refrain from engaging in promiscuous or casual sex, follow a vegetarian or vegan diet and do not consume caffeine or prescription drugs.
Jambons Limited also registered another 'Jambons' trademark in the United Kingdom on October 8, 2021.
In September 2023, the Taipei City Government Department of Health announced that a routine inspection of fresh produce found pesticide residue exceeding regulatory limits in green beans sourced from Miacucina's Xinyi branch.
The leaf petioles are semiamplexicaul (the bases wrapping halfway around the stem) with the basal leaves having blades oblong-elliptic in shape, measuring 10 cm long and 2.5 cm wide (though variation exists in cultivated forms).
Awards It has won awards such as the Festival Theme Award of the Ojai Film Festival in 2004, with music by Moby.
Sautéed mushrooms or truffle shavings or flavored oil, or tomatoes or cheese may be added for extra flavour and variety of texture.
Sprouting and low-temperature preparation ensures the maximum possible vitamin content for the foodstuff.
In 2005, an affiliate of the private investment firm Sun Capital Partners purchased Garden Fresh and with it the restaurant chains.
In 1982, Skippergata was evicted and the squatters moved into Pilestredet 30c in central Oslo, where an agreement was made with the city.
Lamb's-ear flowers in late spring and early summer; plants produce tall spike-like stems with a few reduced leaves.
In 2024 Henderson's removed the tag line "Strong and Northern" from packaging intended for export, replacing it with "Worcestershire", which Somerset Live called "a contentious label" that was shocking to local fans of the sauce, who had long argued Henderson's was a completely different condiment.
Much like grits or potatoes, the ploye was originally a simple carbohydrate filler food for the local population.
In 2018, the Portland Press Herald vegan columnist Avery Yale Kamila reported: "Bonsall credits his “obsession with self-reliance,” interest in sustainable living, appreciation for organic farming, and an allergy to ruminant meat with propelling him toward vegan eating and farming.
The platform hosts over 220,000 businesses in over 180 countries, with over 1.5 million reviews, more than 2 million photos, and 14 million monthly listing views.
Zviti, along with Chakhchoukha, is one of the most popular meals in the Ouled Nail and the Bousaada area.
In November 2018, the company announced a joint development agreement with Archer Daniels Midland to provide commercial-scale volumes of non-animal whey protein.
In 2011, the company launched its first quick-serve restaurant, called Souplantation Express, in Carlsbad, California.
Animal advocates and cultural studies scholars have implicated both the government and the media as the two primary channels responsible for legitimizing carnist discourse in the United States.
In January 2023, Oomi Digital Kitchen became the first restaurant in Dallas to offer an Earth Burger menu digitally.
Li Yuying established Caséo-Sojaïne, the first soy milk "dairy", in Colombes, France, in 1910; he received the first British and American patents for soy milk manufacturing in 1912 and 1913.
In May 2013, Stoner compared hunting photos to images of child pornography, bestiality, snuff murders, rape and torture.
In addition, Deckers argues that, if the assumptions that domesticated cats cannot maintain good health on vegan diets and that they must consume some flesh are correct, the development of in-vitro flesh in order to feed them would be appropriate.
ONA was also one of 33 restaurants in France to receive a Green Star, a new category by the Michelin Guide awarded for sustainable practices.
First, carnism denies there is a problem with eating animals; second, it justifies eating meat as normal, natural, and necessary; and third, to prevent cognitive dissonance, carnism alters the perception of the animals as living individuals into food objects, abstractions, and categories.
Early operations and launch (2013–2015) Rhinehart's blog posts about his experiment attracted attention on Hacker News, which detailed how operations began for Soylent Nutrition, Inc.
His recipe, confit bayaldi, differed from ratatouille by not frying the vegetables, removing peppers and adding mushrooms.
A chicken fillet roll, also known as a hot chicken roll or chicken roll (Irish: rollóg sicín), is a baguette filled with a fillet of processed chicken.
History Peepal Farm was started in December 2014 by Robin Singh in Himachal Pradesh's Dhanotu village near the Dharamsala Town, who was then joined by the second co-founder Shivani Singh.
Peggy's animal rights interest deepens, particularly the prevention of animal testing and support of farms keeping animals out of slaughterhouses.
See also List of vegan and plant-based media References External links The Post Punk Kitchen website Gothamist interview with Isa Chandra Moskowitz Episode 1: Sushi & Cupcakes on YouTube Episode 2: Valentine's Episode on YouTube Episode 3: The Passover Episode on YouTube Episode 4: Mexcillente!
In 2023, the company's parent group, The Urgent Company, was bought by Superlatus; Superlatus had announced plans for Brave Robot to launch a line of pulse protein snacks in 2024.
See also List of vegetarian restaurants List of restaurants in Taiwan Vegetarianism and veganism in Taiwan == References ==
Berry also wrote: "The makers cherry-pick science, use biased sources, distort study findings and use 'weak-to-non-existent data ...'" Berry quoted Dr.
The film documents several cases of cruelty to animals, including: Egg-laying hens live in crowded cages, six or seven hens to one battery cage the size of a file drawer.
Sometimes potato, chili pepper and carrots are added although traditional recipes do not include them.
In commercial production, almond milk is homogenised with high pressure and pasteurised for greater stability and shelf life.
However, watermelon is not a nutritional substitute for traditional steak, as it is lacking in protein and other nutrients found in meat.
National politics BCS is not politically inclined, but its members are involved in Nigerian politics.
Background Joy, a social psychologist and author, was concerned about linguistic bias inherent in terms like carnivore, which were inaccurate and failed to account for the "beliefs beneath the behavior".
Founded in 2003 by Yorit and Aviram Rozin in Auroville, India, Sadhana Forest now runs eight long-term ecological projects across four countries: India, Haiti, Kenya, and Namibia.
The film explores environmental issues affecting oceans, including plastic pollution, ghost nets and overfishing, and argues that commercial fisheries are the main driver of marine ecosystem destruction.
Dominion is a 2018 Australian documentary film filmed primarily with drones and hidden cameras inside Australian slaughterhouses and macro-farms with the aim to expose an opaque and inhumane system, according to the film's writer, director, and producer, Chris Delforce, an animal rights activist.
Plot The 2004 film tells the story of how the farmers create an animal sanctuary farm called "Farm Sanctuary" where they rescue injured animals, half dead, abandoned, and rejected by the farm industry for not being productive.
In 2022, the company Tomorrow Farms launched Bored Cow, a brand of chocolate, vanilla, and strawberry milk made with Perfect Day's whey.
The original film argues that avoiding animal products and ultra-processed foods, and instead eating a whole-food, plant-based diet (whole grains, legumes, tubers, vegetables, and fruits), may serve as a form of chronic illness intervention.
These online forums often devolve into misunderstanding and exaggeration and Ching Hai adherents often express hurt and disappointment when they discover such material.
is a food technology startup company based in Berkeley, California, that has developed processes of creating whey protein by fermentation in microbiota, specifically from fungi in bioreactors, instead of extraction from bovine milk.
The oil and the water in the yolk form a base of the emulsion, while lecithin and protein from the yolk is the emulsifier that stabilizes it.
In 2018, they started exports, beginning with the Belgian organic chain Bio-Planet (operated by the Colruyt Group).
The reasons given by former employees to justify these departures are of several kinds: "regular burn-outs, forced departures, heavy workloads, accusations of moral harassment, but also relative blindness to issues of sexist and sexual violence".
As of 2021, though the USDA is investigating and various state legislatures are considering regulation, various courts have determined that reasonable consumers are not confused, and the FDA has enacted no regulations against plant-based milk labels.
ONA was a vegan restaurant in Arès, France, owned by chef Claire Vallée and was the first vegan restaurant to receive a Michelin star.
Though they can be used to make many products similar to those made from dairy, there are differences in taste and texture.
As the only place where large animals can recover in the area, the local administration has regularly referred cases to Peepal Farm since 2017.
In 2017 Peter Adkins placed "Ulysses in dialogue with recent writings on...the emergence of what is being termed 'vegan studies' to suggest a vegetarian reading of Joyce’s novel," citing the book.
Animal characters (herbivores) are, for the most part with some exceptions, excluded from this list, especially if it is not actually stated that they do not eat meat.
Though traditionally eaten with chicken stew, hot dogs, and other meat-based meals, ployes have been embraced by Maine’s vegan community." See also Kaletez List of buckwheat dishes Memil-buchimgae == References ==
Policy positions unrelated to the environment taken by the party would arguably place it on the left wing in Ontario politics.
In the early 1990s Bonsall did help found Seed Savers Exchange in Iowa to preserve heirloom seeds and share seeds.
Alongside its financial growth, Huel achieved B Corp certification in 2023, meeting strict social sustainability and environmental performance standards.
Grains come in two varieties: the larger grains produced by drought-sensitive crops are called cereals and the smaller drought-resistant varieties are millets.
Their slogan is "Be Vegan, Make Peace!" The Loving Hut franchise has different service models ranging from fast food, fast casual to full service restaurants.
See also List of vegan and plant-based media References External links Official website Live and Let Live at IMDb
Common meat substitutes used to create the meatless sausage in a meat-free sausage roll include pea protein, mushrooms, soy products, lentils, quinoa, and beans.
In Nigeria, akara is commonly eaten with bread, custard, ogi (or eko), a type of cornmeal made with fine corn flour.
While acknowledging some inaccuracies, Monbiot says that the main point of the film is correct: the fishing industry is the greatest cause of the ecological destruction of the oceans, and cites the 2019 IPBES report as evidence to back this assertion.
The idea stemmed from the limitations of animal welfare work, and they decided to do it in a way that involves and inspires others.
Dr Mannah's (previously Happy Cashew and originally Happy Cheeze) is a manufacturer of vegan cheeses in Cuxhaven, Germany.
A 2010 UN report, Assessing the Environmental Impacts of Consumption and Production, argued that animal products "in general require more resources and cause higher emissions than plant-based alternatives".
Some locations provide set lunch options with fixed combinations of noodles, vegetables, and plant-based proteins, marketed as lower-calorie meals.
Synopsis Covering factory farms, pet stores, puppy mills, animal experimentation, Earthlings includes footage obtained through the use of hidden cameras to chronicle the day-to-day practices of some of the largest industries in the world, all of which rely on animals.
The restaurant's menu focuses on vegetable-based dishes prepared without animal meat, by using plant-based substitutes.
The second phase starts as the acid levels become too high for many bacteria, and Leuconostoc mesenteroides and other Leuconostoc species take dominance.
Banquets held on fish days were popular occasions for serving food that imitated meat, cheese and eggs in various ingenious ways: fish could be molded to look like venison and imitation eggs could be made by stuffing empty egg shells with fish roe and almond milk and cooking on coals.
The name is derived from Italian, meaning "my kitchen", reflecting the brand's emphasis on home-style cooking using fresh ingredients.
In many regions of Mexico the term pico de gallo describes any of a variety of salads (including fruit salads), salsa, or fillings made with tomato, tomatillo, avocado, orange, jícama, cucumber, papaya, or mild chilis.
Manjoo cites findings from a 2015 study by Canadian psychologists, that the general population rates vegans more negatively than atheists and immigrants, and tolerates vegans only slightly better than drug addicts.
In 1977, they began selling Vegenaise, an egg-free mayonnaise substitute whose name is a portmanteau of vegetarian and mayonnaise.
The company was bought out of administration by VFC Foods in August 2023 and products under the brand name will reappear in Asda supermarkets.
In January 2017, the school was awarded the "Compassionate School Award" from People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA).
In 2021, the FDA issued a final rule that amends yogurt's standard of identity (which remains a product of "milk-derived ingredients"), and is expecting to issue industry guidance on "Labeling of Plant-based Milk Alternatives" in 2022.
In the case of Harold Brown, the Lyman couple, and the Ezell-Vandersluis couple, the movie tells the story of how they began as traditional farmers working as part of the system that uses animals for food or other human purposes, but then came to the view that such practices are cruel and unethical.
In addition to vending within the United States, Miyoko's Creamery expanded its market in 2019, distributing to Canada and Australia.
After the study, they both returned to an omnivorous diet but cut out most red meat from their diet.
The protein acts as an emulsifier that combines water and fat contributing to the creation of a stable viscous mass.
Several popular diet patterns prohibit the inclusion of some categories of animal products and may also limit the conditions of when other animal products may be permitted.
In 1940, general manager Charles Hinksman purchased the company from Shaws and formed Hendersons (Sheffield) Ltd., the control of which remained with his family, as of 2016 the Freemans.
Curry Without Worry is a San Francisco, California-based soup kitchen known for its menu of Nepalese cuisine.
The book promotes a diet based on the Bible, and the covers of the various editions all depict author Hurd reading from a Bible.
Many weekly magazines presented the group and its ideology in a positive tone after it arrived in Finland.
Coetzee's Disgrace (1999) and The Lives of Animals (1999), and was influenced by Adams's The Sexual Politics of Meat.
History Initiated by the French animal rights organization L214, the first marches took place in Paris and Castres, in southern France on June 2, 2012.
It may be offered as a standalone dish, as a side dish, or as an appetizer, including when spread on lavash.
As Alexandria is a port city, it was possible to export the dish and its name to other areas in the Middle East.
Though the roast can be purchased separately, it is also offered as part of a meal with cranberry-apple-potato dumplings, gravy, and "wishstix" made from Tofurky Jurky, a meatless jerky product.
In their book Authentic Mexican: Regional Cooking from the Heart of Mexico, Rick Bayless and Deann Groen speculate that the name might allude to the bird-feed—like texture and appearance of the mince.
See also List of food labeling regulations Food Safety and Standards Authority of India References External links The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India
Chaats such as panipuri surged in popularity in South India—including in rural areas and around the cities of Madurai and Coimbatore—in the 2020s.
Vitiprints litigation In September 2024, US-based Vitiprints LLC sued Veganz Group AG in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (Case No.
American celebrity chef Thomas Keller first wrote about a dish he called "byaldi" in his 1999 book The French Laundry Cookbook.
Soundtrack For each recipe Bryant suggests a song pairing, which he calls the recipe's "soundtrack".
The brand is no longer affiliated with the former lafauxmagerie.com domain, which has since been replaced by Saporia, owned by Purezza.
Like the Greek dish of Melitzanosalata, it lacks tahini and is made from finely chopped roasted eggplant, finely chopped onions, sunflower oil (explicitly not olive oil because it would make the dish bitter), salt and, optionally, mayonnaise.
Work conditions The association has raised from 12 employees, including 3 permanent contracts, in 2015 to 74 employees, including 63 permanent contracts, in 2021, despite the departure of one employee out of five (15 people) between the beginning of 2020 and the beginning of 2021.
Vegemite, Marmite, or soy sauce is sometimes used as one of the stocks or what the onions are fried in.
The Post Punk Kitchen is a vegan cooking show that aired on Brooklyn and Manhattan public-access television cable TV from 2003 to 2005.
Citrus fruits are especially desirable because of their flavor and pectin content." Preparation Quince cheese is prepared with quince fruits.
History Henry Henderson, who had trained as a miller and then as a druggist, began manufacturing sauce in 1885.
Once the liquid product is separated, adding other ingredients, such as fortifying vitamins and minerals, or sweeteners, flavorings, salts, oils, and similar ingredients, forms the final product.
Almeda Lambert's Guide for Nut Cookery, published in 1899, contained a recipe for a vegetable nut roast.
Given remaining uncertainty, Elder advocates a precautionary approach that shifts the burden of proof to those whose actions risk harm.
Overviews of this literature situate vegetarian ecofeminism within wider ecofeminist thought that links sexism, racism, classism and speciesism.
chefs Henry Firth and Ian Theasby Vegan Mashup- Miyoko Schinner co-hosted the PBS cooking show for three seasons (2012-2016) with Toni Fiore and Terry Hope Romero.
Philosopher Jonathan Birch proposes a practical framework grounded in the precautionary principle for assessing animal sentience and argues that it is consistent with established practice in animal welfare science.
Regional variations In the Arab world, especially Syria, Lebanon and Palestine, it is usually served as part of a meze.
The Tea Hut is a space that provides free vegan chai and snacks and acts as a gathering place to encourage community interaction with locals of the region.
Criticism Members of the meat industry in France have labelled the methods used by animal rights organizations such as L214 as "fascistic".
Criticism Edward Behr of the Financial Times said the cooking did not "show a strong thread of style." See also List of vegetarian and vegan restaurants == References ==
Animals regarded as commodities may be bought, sold, given away, bequeathed, killed, and used as commodity producers: producers of meat, eggs, milk, fur, wool, skin and offspring, among other things.
Nutritional information A typical formulation for commercially made mayonnaise (not low fat) can contain as much as 80% vegetable oil, typically soybean, rapeseed, sunflower, or corn oil, depending on region of production, but, in specialty products, sometimes olive or avocado oil.
Meet Your Meat is a 2002 documentary about factory farming created by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), narrated by Alec Baldwin, and directed by Bruce Friedrich and Cem Akin.
Most of the company's products contain Spanish almonds, while others use cashew nuts or sunflower seeds, as well as spices.
During this period, the company introduced new ready-to-drink products alongside its original powdered formula, diversifying its offerings to meet growing consumer demand.
While not necessarily lethal to consume, to the uninitiated, an accidentally induced psychedelic experience can run the gamut from benign to terrifying, even depressing or psychotic.
Vegan design is seen as an outgrowth of the vegan food movement, based on related ethical stances and claims of sustainability.
The coconut milk is heated slowly with vinegar (usually coconut or cane vinegar), red onions, salt, and black pepper.
Vegan Treats owner Danielle Konya grew up in Northampton County, Pennsylvania, and has kept her business local in the Lehigh Valley.
It is a meat stew, whose main ingredients are small game animals or birds such as rabbit, hare, quail, or pigeon, and flatbread, and may include garlic, tomatoes, and mushrooms.
In 2021, Tina Hütterl of the Berliner Zeitung gave the donuts of Brammibal's an excellent review, describing them as "the best of my life", indistinguishable from non-vegan donuts, and tasting "as good as they look like".
In November 2019, Daiya Foods appointed Hajime Fujita as its new chief executive officer, a role in which he will oversee global operations and the brand's international expansion.
Set in the year 2067, when veganism is the norm, the film looks back on the history of meat-eating and carnism today.
The database was originally set up by Ken Fern to include 1,500 plants which he had grown on his 28 acre research site in the South West of England.
Paleterias usually have dozens of flavors of paleta including local flavors like horchata, tamarind, mamey and nanche along with other flavors like strawberry, lime, chocolate and mango.
Eating a whole-food, plant-based diet is healthy for people across life stages and even athletes thrive on this diet.
Farm animals on factory farms may be genetically similar therefore making them more susceptible to specific parasites.
Numerous recipes using soybean products such as soy pulp, soy milk powder, and soy flour are featured.
Fruitful Food has been cited by CNN in discussions of Taipei as a prominent destination for vegetarian dining.
They kneel when surface cultivating, placing a board under their knees to spread out the pressure, and prevent soil compaction.
It can also be used by drinking establishments to note a patron as under the drinking age, regardless of their views towards drugs such as alcohol.
The omnivorous domestic dog was originally primarily a carnivore but has evolved to metabolize carbohydrates, fat, and fiber and remain healthy on a diet lower in protein.
After a standoff with police, Kryvosh was arrested, the other 10 hostages were released, all unharmed, and the President's recommendation video was deleted.
They can be generalized into coconut cream (or thick coconut milk) with the highest amount of fat; coconut milk (or thin coconut milk) with a maximum of around 20% fat; and coconut skim milk with negligible amounts of fat.
Moore distinguished his view from the opinion of deontological intuitionists, who claimed that "intuitions" could determine questions about what actions are right or required by duty.
Delia Ruby Graff Fara (April 28, 1969 – July 18, 2017) was an American philosopher who was professor of philosophy at Princeton University.
Hare grew up in the village of Ewelme, Oxfordshire, where his mother directed the church choir and worked as a piano teacher, and where his father taught at Oxford.
Anyone affected by the indirect consequences of a specific action will automatically share a common interest in controlling those consequences, i.e., solving a common problem.Since every action generates unintended consequences, publics continuously emerge, overlap, and disintegrate.
A performative contradiction (German: performativer Widerspruch) arises when the making of an utterance rests on necessary presuppositions that contradict the proposition asserted in the utterance.
The society also takes part in several long-term projects, such as creating a chrestomathy of texts dealing with philosophical logic and establishing a journal called The Logical Foresight.
Because of this difference in the type of the two negations, 'x is not non-A' does not simply reduce to 'x is A.' Dharmakīrti's Bottom-Up Approach A few decades after Dignāga, the philosopher Dharmakīrti significantly revised apoha theory.
Researchers in semantics and pragmatics use felicity judgments much as syntacticians use grammaticality judgments.
(Contributors: Kvanvig, BonJour, Conee, Feldman, Foley, Klein, Kvanvig, Lehrer, Lycan, Markie, Pappas, Plantinga, Sosa, Swain, van Fraassen).
The term was coined by Rudolf Carnap when he reformulated semantic definitions of terms as postulates in the object language of a system of logic, in order to explicate the concept of analyticity.
Emily Brady is an analytic philosopher who specializes in aesthetics, environmental philosophy and history of eighteenth-century philosophy.
Calvin College (1989–2003) In 1989, Hare moved to Calvin College in Grand Rapids, Michigan, where he served as Professor of Philosophy until 2003.
113–127, doi:10.1007/978-3-319-76327-9_7, ISBN 978-3-319-76327-9, retrieved 2022-12-05{{citation}}: CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link) Hung, Ruyu, "The paradox of graphocentrism: Dao-logocentrism", Education between Speech and Writing, doi:10.4324/9781315727509-4, retrieved 2022-12-05
The benefit of SRS is that the investigator is guaranteed to choose a sample that represents the population that ensures statistically valid conclusions.
The current online Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy does not mention it by name anywhere in its truly encyclopedic pages." See also Ontological argument References External links Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy Encyclopedia of Philosophy (1967), pg 39
He is a lecturer for the popular PHIL1012: Introductory Logic course at the University of Sydney, which broke records in 2021 as the largest course by enrolments in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences.
He has also made contributions in global health, as an advisor to the third edition of Disease Control Priorities Project.
Johnson (born 24 May 1949) is Knight Professor of Liberal Arts and Sciences in the Department of Philosophy at the University of Oregon.
Termed the "miscellaneous column" by the authors, Column IV contains important personality-descriptive terms that did not seem appropriate for the other three columns.
La questione dell’essere nel tomismo analitico, Carocci, Roma 2012 (double-blind peer-reviewed); Se Dio sia uno.
He says that his book should not be read as an attempt to give an accurate summary of Wittgenstein's views, but rather as an account of Wittgenstein's argument "as it struck Kripke, as it presented a problem for him" (p.
———— (1996) "Recantation or Any old ω-sequence would do after all", Philosophia Mathematica, 4: 184–189.
Philosophical work Strawson first became well known with his article "On Referring" (1950), a criticism of Bertrand Russell's theory of descriptions (see also Definite descriptions) that Russell explained in the famous "On Denoting" article (1905).
This work was further developed, resulting in the book, The Revision Theory of Truth, co-written with Nuel Belnap.
Since McDowell offers a straight solution, making the rule-following paradox compatible with realism would be missing Wittgenstein's basic point that the meaning can often be said to be the use.
Scholarly opinion had formerly tended to place him in the 6th or 7th century; current consensus places him in the 5th century.
The Nature of Philosophical Problems: Their Causes and Implications, Oxford University Press (2014).
Vagueness or circularity Either the defender of the correspondence theory of truth offers some accompanying theory of the world, or they do not.
I am inclined to think that he was more deeply religious than are many people who correctly regard themselves as religious believers.
Tye's third book, Ten Problems of Consciousness (1995), was a selection of the Library of Science Book Club.
Among his essays within these fields those on the morality of slavery, abortion and the Golden Rule, and on demi-vegetarianism have received the most attention.
Darwin's discovery was that the generation of life worked algorithmically, proceeding in such a way that its results are unavoidable.
See also Economy (religion) Evasion (ethics) Lying by omission Marrano Mesirah Shifting ground fallacy So help me God Taqiyya You can't have your cake and eat it Crypto-Papism Notes References Bok, Sissela.
The author of eight books and over 150 articles (and over 20 reviews), Lycan is an advocate of the version of functionalism, known as homuncular functionalism.
He was an undergraduate at the University of Helsinki from 1934 to 1937, majoring in philosophy, history and political science while minoring in mathematics.
Some of his books include Rationality and Reflection, The Value of Knowledge and the Pursuit of Understanding, and The Problem of Hell (published 1993), which debates Hell in a modern theological and philosophical way.
Major and minor terms The "major term" is the predicate of the syllogism's conclusion; the "minor term" is the subject of the syllogism's conclusion.
Bartlett, Justin Clemens, Jon Roffe, (Edinburgh University Press, 2014) Edited collections and books Jaques Lacan and the Other Side of Psychoanalysis: Reflections on Seminar XVII.
The paradigm case argument is that if a term, such as "knowledge", is regularly applied to some cases and not to others, then that term (and the concept it refers to) cannot truly be undefined, as it clearly has some kind of definition in practice.
Henri Lauener (13 July 1933 in Bern - 28 October 2002, Bern) was a Swiss philosopher interested in both transcendental and analytic currents.
See also Cassirer–Heidegger debate Jacques Derrida § Searle–Derrida debate Foucault–Habermas debate John Searle § Searle–Derrida debate References Further reading Finlayson, Gordon (2019).
ISBN 978-0-8014-8410-0 Epistemic Justification: Essays in the Theory of Knowledge, Ithaca, New York: Cornell University Press, 1996.
(Online.) (2002) Beyond Rigidity: The Unfinished Semantic Agenda of 'Naming and Necessity' (Oxford University Press).
Central to this theory is the metaphor of the "Joycean machine," which describes human consciousness as a Virtual Machine, a serial software layer composed of language and habits (memes) running on the highly parallel hardware of the biological brain.
The New York Times memorialized him as "a leading authority on symbolic logic and on the philosophic concepts of knowledge and value." He coined the term "Qualia" as used in philosophy, linguistics, and cognitive sciences.
She went on to co-found a new centrist party in 1981, the Social Democratic Party; Williams left the Labour Party to join the SDP, although he later returned to Labour.
For this reason, primary colors are often chosen that are outside of the region of real colors – that is, imaginary or fictitious primary colors – in order to capture the greatest area of real colors.
In 1917, the Foundation and the magazine Filologicheskie Zapiski ceased its activities almost for a century.
Pap started teaching at various universities and had the opportunity to meet some leading philosophers, notably Rudolf Carnap, with whom he developed a lasting friendship.
She has done work on the social construction of categories often considered to be natural kinds, particularly race and gender.
He became an assistant professor at Princeton in 1984, received tenure there in 1987, and became a full professor in 1991.
At the same time, the code talkers were able to encrypt and decrypt messages quickly and easily by translating them into and from Navajo.
His lectures often focus on selected paragraphs from Russell's "On Denoting" as well as Frege's "On Sense and Reference." In 2022 he received the Rolf Schock Prize in the category of "Philosophy".
Independent developments in Europe Drawing on influences such as Humboldt and Friedrich Nietzsche, some European thinkers developed ideas similar to those of Sapir and Whorf, generally working in isolation from each other.
Books Logic: The Laws of Truth, Princeton University Press, 2012 Vagueness and Degrees of Truth, Oxford University Press, 2008 See also Temporal paradox Grandfather paradox Time travel References External links Nick Smith at the University of Sydney
This account includes an explanation of (1) how empirical reasoning can force a radical transformation of view and (2) how experience contributes to the content of empirical concepts.
If so, he would not have ever satisfied the description "the first Chancellor of the German Empire," and (indeed) someone else probably would have.
During this time, he worked on the proof of consistency of the axiom of choice and of the continuum hypothesis; he went on to show that these hypotheses cannot be disproved from the common system of axioms of set theory.
In formal semantics and philosophy of language, a meaning postulate is a postulate used to express lexical relations between terms, in cases where such relations are not encoded in the compositional semantics of some formal language.
In this sense, text is an instance of 'restored behaviour', a term introduced by Richard Schechner that sees performance as a repeatable ritual.
In God's Call (Eerdmans, 2001), he discusses divine command theory with attention to texts in Duns Scotus, Kant, and contemporary moral theory, and argues against J.
Brainstorms: Philosophical Essays on Mind and Psychology is a 1978 book by American philosopher Daniel Dennett.
This is not possible when no one else is acquainted with the particular thing that has "fallen under our notice".
Guests include Professor Patrick Suppes of Stanford University and Glenn Kleiman, author of 'Brave New Schools'.
Early life and education Daniel Clement Dennett III was born on March 28, 1942, in Boston, Massachusetts, the son of Ruth Marjorie (née Leck; 1903–1971) and Daniel Clement Dennett Jr.
ISBN 978-0-415-95825-7 Philosophical and Theological Essays on the Trinity (with Thomas McCall), Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2009.
Nicholas Jeremy Josef Smith (born 1972) is an Australian philosopher and Professor of Philosophy at the University of Sydney.
The fact that in this and later works Korner put forward a controversial view that Kant's categories apply directly to ordinary empirical science, was little noticed by a public grateful for any short work covering all of Kant's philosophy.
If two terms designate the same thing, then substituting one for another in a sentence does not change the designation of that sentence.
But far too many philosophers have thought that when they named those other properties they were actually defining good; that these properties, in fact, were simply not "other," but absolutely and entirely the same with goodness.
Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem In social choice theory, the Gibbard–Satterthwaite theorem is a result published independently by Gibbard in 1973 and economist Mark Satterthwaite in 1975.
Norman Swartz classifies a definition as "stipulative" if it is intended to guide a specific discussion.
Bradley Harris Dowden (born 1942) is an American philosopher and professor of philosophy at the California State University, Sacramento.
In five volumes: Volume 1 - Laws of Nature, Causation, and Supervenience; Volume 2 - The Nature of Time; Volume 3 - Properties; Volume 4 - Particulars, Actuality, and Identity; Volume 5 - Necessity and Possibility.
Saul Kripke used the sentence to posit that the knowledge of something necessary (in this case the identity of Hesperus and Phosphorus) could be empirical rather than knowable a priori.
"Is Evolutionary Psychology Misleading Us?" (2012) video of lecture for the Marian Miner Cook Athenaeum of Claremont McKenna College.
Women in the Developing World: Thoughts and Ideals, a compilation of articles, Sterling Publishers, New Delhi, India, 1990; 2nd edition, Dhaka, 2009.
Schurz, EPSA15 Selected Papers, Springer (2017) See also Scientific structuralism References External links Personal website Book review
Ground The notion of a ground plays a central role for rationality: a mental state is rational if it is "well-grounded" in a source of justification.
ISBN 978-0-8014-9544-1 The Reliability of Sense Perception, Ithaca, New York: Cornell University Press, 1993.
If the two senses of the same word do not seem to fit, yet seem related, then it is probable that they are polysemous.
He received his PhD in 2009 from New York University, under the supervision of Kit Fine, Hartry Field and Stephen Schiffer.
See also American philosophy List of American philosophers Notes Further reading William Tait (ed.), Early Analytic Philosophy: Frege, Russell, Wittgenstein; Essays in Honor of Leonard Linsky, Chicago, Ill.: Open Court, 1997.
Even if a war is considered "just" in accordance with the standards of when a country may go to war (Jus ad bellum) or how a country conducts a war (Jus in bello, it may not be deemed morally acceptable based upon a consideration of the organized violence which it engenders in the modern world.
England (1929) "A Century of Philosophy at University College, London" (1928) Journal of Philosophical Studies, Vol.
At this time, it was common for linguists to base their descriptions of a language on data from a single speaker.
Books Basic Rights (Princeton 1980; 2nd edition, 1996) ISBN 9780691029290 Climate Justice: Vulnerability and Protection Fighting Hurt: Rule and Exception in Torture and War The Pivotal Generation: Why We Have a Moral Responsibility to Slow Climate Change Right Now.
He was appointed to an honorary professorship at the Institute of Neurology at University College, London, for the period 2019–2024.
Recently, the received view of theories has been displaced by the semantic view of theories as the dominant position in theory formulation in the philosophy of science.
Rudolf Carnap (in his earlier work) and Willard Van Orman Quine were prominent proponents of this view.
Work He is a general editor of the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy, supervising since 1999 a staff of 30 philosophy professors, each with their own subject area expertise.
Open texture is a term in the philosophy of Friedrich Waismann, first introduced in his paper "Verifiability" to refer to the universal possibility of vagueness in empirical statements.
He was President of the British Society for the Philosophy of Science in 1965, the Aristotelian Society in 1967, the International Union of History and Philosophy of Science in 1969, and the Mind Association in 1973.
He is Director of the Innateness and the Structure of the Mind Project, an interdisciplinary inquiry into nativist theorizing funded by the Arts & Humanities Research Council.
At this time, she was one of a very small number of women teaching philosophy outside of Oxford University.
After German troops moved into the country in March 1939, a schoolmate of his, an officer in the SS, warned the Jewish family that life in German-occupied Moravia was no longer safe.
The individual words make sense and are arranged according to proper grammatical rules, yet the result is nonsense.
A devout Catholic philosopher, his work has earned him the Kyoto Prize, the Templeton Prize, the Berggruen Prize for Philosophy, and the John W.
Traditional doctrines of hell suppose that God lacks the will or the patience or the resourcefulness to civilize each and all of us, to rear each and all of us up into the household of God.
Previously, he was a professor of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame and the University of Toronto.
Logic Over the course of his career, Quine published numerous technical and expository papers on formal logic, some of which are reprinted in his Selected Logic Papers and in The Ways of Paradox.
He taught at Princeton University from 1967 to 1974, then at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill before moving to Rice University in 1980, where he spent the rest of his career.
If we look for other uses we can find intent, feeling, implication, importance, value, and signification.
Whorf credited Naquayouma as the source of most of his information on the Hopi language, although in 1938 he took a short field trip to the village of Mishongnovi on the Second Mesa, collecting some additional data.
This approach suggests that the same psychological state may be constructed as cognition, emotion, or behavior depending on the individual's meaning-making process and situational context.
He then taught at Rutgers University for five years, followed by the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign from 1976 to 1980 and then Syracuse University from 1980 to 1992.
Methodology at the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy PhilPapers Entry on conceptual engineering YouTube Channel "Conceptual Engineering" ConceptLab – University of Oslo
He is a fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities and a former President of the Australasian Association for Logic.
Nominal definitions vs real definitions In classical thought, a definition was taken to be a statement of the essence of a thing.
Aristotelian Society Supplementary Volume 28:165 - 196; MacDonald's contribution reprinted in Margolis, Joseph (ed.).
His unpublished and now lost dissertation (criticizing Immanuel Kant from an idealist position) was titled "The Psychology of Kant".
diversity The inequality relation domain The domain of a relation R is the class of x such that xRy for some y.
Publications Books Perception: A Representative Theory (1977, CUP) Conditionals (1987, Basil Blackwell) (with David Braddon-Mitchell) Philosophy of Mind and Cognition: An Introduction (1996, Basil Blackwell), 2nd ed.
Thus, while it is possible to verify or falsify whole theories, it is not possible to verify or falsify individual statements.
Other translations can be ruled out only by querying the natives: An affirmative answer to "Is this the same gavagai as that earlier one?" rules out some possible translations.
null-class A class containing no members predicative A century of scholarly discussion has not reached a definite consensus on exactly what this means, and Principia Mathematica gives several different explanations of it that are not easy to reconcile.
The Khovansky-fund was reconstituted on the occasion of the 110th anniversary (November 4, 2009), again with the aim to support teachers and publishers.
His dissertation was on the application of information theory to studies of human short-term memory.
Philosophy Looks at the Arts: Contemporary Readings in Aesthetics (1962) Margaret MacDonald (ed.) (1954/1966).
(There is clearly a distinction between perceiving and acquiring a belief: one can see an "apparently bent" stick in the water but not believe that it is bent as one knows that one's experience is illusory.
See also Analytic–synthetic distinction Duhem–Quine thesis Meta-ontology Naturalized epistemology Two Dogmas of Empiricism References Further reading Cory Juhl; Eric Loomis (2009).
Or Peter could have the following thought: "he is pale", where it so happens that the pronoun "he" refers to Peter, but Peter is unaware of it.
This means that the two largest dimensions in the Big Five model of personality (i.e., Extraversion and Neuroticism) might be just an artifact of the lexical method that this model employed.
Hare, was a British moral philosopher who held the post of White's Professor of Moral Philosophy at the University of Oxford from 1966 until 1983.
To explicate sameness of intension he introduces the notion of "intensional isomorphism": roughly, two expressions are synonymous when their associated intensions have the same internal structure, not merely the same range of state-descriptions.
He has also collaborated with Microsoft Research on designing intelligible AI and co-written papers on the ethics of risk-taking with Nassim Nicholas Taleb.
If this is accomplished without any flaw (in this case: if the promise is fulfilled), the performative utterance is "happy" or "felicitous"; if, on the other hand, one fails to do as promised, it is "unhappy", or "infelicitous".
Moral behaviour Historically, major topics of study in the domain of moral behavior have included violence and altruism, bystander intervention and obedience to authority (e.g., the Milgram experiment and Stanford prison experiment).
Graphocentrism or scriptism is a typically unconscious interpretative bias in which writing is privileged over speech.
He spent the rest of his career at Harvard, arguing for realism, constructing a trope ontology, and advocating a four-dimensionalist theory of time, among many other things such as defending the legitimacy of inductive inference.
In 1962–63 Cavell was a Fellow at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, New Jersey, where he befriended the British philosopher Bernard Williams.
Kneale, whose Probability and Induction (1949) includes the passage "after wandering in Meinong's jungle of subsistence ...
Descriptions "Reference and Definite Descriptions" has been one of Donnellan's most influential essays.
Her Inside Ethics argues that ethics in disability studies and animal studies is stunted by a lack of moral imagination, caused by a narrow understanding of rationality and by a philosophy severed from literature and art.
She has been a visiting professor at Michigan State University, University of Colorado at Boulder, Harvard University, California Institute of Technology, the Sorbonne, and the Ecole Normale Supérieure de Cachan.
(1969), a collection of essays that addresses topics such as language use, metaphor, skepticism, tragedy, and literary interpretation from the point of view of ordinary language philosophy, of which he is a practitioner and ardent defender.
Therefore, despite being physically identical to himself, Davidson states that the Swampman does not have thoughts nor meaningful language, as it has no causal history to base them on.
Philosophical work Føllesdal wrote extensively on topics relating to the philosophy of language, phenomenology, existentialism, and hermeneutics.
A description and explanation of the nature and impact of the new explicit knowledge is usually called an "explication".
This practical method seeks to deal with the blurred distinction between text and context and offer a meaningful way of interpreting historical reality.
This will get his body parts in the right place so far as survival is concerned, without involving much by way of true belief...
Academia Richarz (Academia Philosophical Studies 14), Sankt Augustin 1998, ISBN 3-89665-092-0 References External links Lauener Foundation website
As von Wright recounts, he visited Vienna in 1937 and met with Gödel and Viktor Kraft, but the Vienna Circle was already 'rapidly dispersing' by then and the Anschluss of 1938 put an end to his 'dreams' of studying there.
In philosophy of religion, Zimmerman has worked on divine foreknowledge and human free will, and God and time.
He developed visual indexing theory (sometimes called the FINST theory) which hypothesizes a pre-conceptual mechanism responsible for individuating, tracking, and directly (or demonstratively) referring to the visual objects that could be interrogated by cognitive processes.
Desires, like beliefs, form a hierarchy: intrinsic desires are at the foundation while instrumental desires belong to the superstructure.
The Kalam argument concludes that the universe had a cause, but Craig further argues that the cause must be a person.
According to Rowe, he became an evangelical Christian during his teenage years and planned to become a minister, eventually enrolling at the Detroit Bible Institute for his collegiate education.
Summary Carnap writes that his main purpose is the development of a new method for "the semantical analysis of meaning", which he understands as analyzing and describing the meanings of linguistic expressions.
He received all his university degrees, BA, MA, and DPhil, from the University of Oxford, where he held his first faculty positions.
Boas Jr., Tehran: Elmi Farhangi A Dialogue on Personal Identity and Immortality, John Perry, Tehran: Markaz References External links Official website Lajevardi at PhilPapers
The received view of theories is a position in the philosophy of science that identifies a scientific theory with a set of propositions which are considered to be linguistic objects, such as axioms.
Alessandro Graheli, Teoria dello Sphoṭa nel sesto Ahnikā della Nyāyamañjarī di Jayantabhaṭṭa (2003), University "La Sapienza" thesis, Rome (2003).
But such an indirect awareness or perception is itself an idea in one's mind, so that the correspondence theory of truth reduces to a correspondence between ideas about truth and ideas of the world, whereupon it becomes a coherence theory of truth.
What makes this a metaphysical project is that it exhibits, in fine detail, the structural features of our thought about the world, and thus precisely delimits how we, humans, think about reality.
John Richard Perry (born January 16, 1943) is an American philosopher who is professor emeritus at Stanford University and the University of California, Riverside.
Most famously, he also lost in the 1965 election to newcomer and future prime minister, Pierre Trudeau.
Books Contractualism and the Foundations of Morality, Oxford University Press, 2010, ISBN 9780199664658 Explaining Norms, with Geoffrey Brennan, Lina Eriksson and Robert E.
However, Quine argues, because of the indeterminacy of translation, any attempt to define 'analyticity' on a substitutional basis invariably introduces assumptions of the synthetic variety, resulting in a circular argument.
Donnellan contributed to the philosophy of language, notably to the analysis of proper names and definite descriptions.
In the case of Navajo code-talkers, cryptanalysts were unable to decode messages in Navajo, even when using the most sophisticated methods available.
For example, consider these two definitions: a triangle: A plane figure that has 3 straight bounding sides.
Personal life and death While at Swarthmore, Sklar met and married Swarthmore undergraduate Elizabeth Sherr Sklar, who would later become an English professor at Wayne State University.
If the sentences of Mentalese require unique processes of elaboration then they require a computational mechanism of a certain type.
Flexible Variable-binding and Montague Grammar', with Dag Westerståhl, in P Dekker och M Stokhof (eds), Proceedings of the Ninth Amsterdam Colloquium , Amsterdam 1994, pp.
From 2001 to 1996, when he retired, he was the Rush Rees Research Professor (Emeritus) at Swansea University.
Selected papers, OUP, Oxford 2004, ISBN 0-19-516137-8 "Is consciousness a brain process?" in: British Journal of Psychology 47 (1956), pp.
A similar situation obtains with a statement such as "there is a bull in that field", which Austin gives as an illustration of a primitive utterance—does the speaker mean to warn us of the bull and thereby keep us out of the field, or is it merely an observation?
In 1931 Edward Sapir, the foremost expert on Native American languages, started teaching at Yale, close to where Whorf lived, and Whorf signed up for graduate-level classes with Sapir, becoming one of his most respected students.
Quine's contention that translation is indeterminate has been among the most widely discussed and controversial theses in modern analytical philosophy.
Particularly, his later view has been compared to that of Kripke's own view which recognizes names as stemming from a social convention and pragmatic principles of understanding others utterances.
Ryle thought it no longer possible to believe that a philosopher's task is to study mental as opposed to physical objects.
She moved to Rutgers University, where she was a visiting/distinguished research professor from 2013 to 2015.
The main reason for this is that most cognition is abductive and global, hence sensitive to all possibly relevant background beliefs to (dis)confirm a belief.
Professional biography Jesús Padilla Gálvez studied Philosophy, History and Mathematics at the University of Cologne (Germany) and was awarded the M.A.
One major point of misunderstanding was Rawls's emphasis on social primary goods in a debate that included Habermasian notions of the public and common good.
Later historians have therefore tended to treat verificationism as a sophisticated heir to this broader tradition of empiricist and pragmatist thought.
Confirmation holism and ontological relativity Colleague Hilary Putnam called Quine's indeterminacy of translation thesis "the most fascinating and the most discussed philosophical argument since Kant's Transcendental Deduction of the Categories".
Born and raised in Røros Municipality, he graduated with a DPhil from Oxford University (Balliol College) in 1986, and has since been employed by the University of Oslo; from 1991 as an associate professor, and from 1994 as a full professor.
Gilbert Harman (May 26, 1938 – November 13, 2021) was an American philosopher, who taught at Princeton University from 1963 until his retirement in 2017.
A crude example of such a rule is the pastoral idea of "verbizing one's nouns": that certain nouns, used in certain contexts, can be converted into a verb, conveying a related meaning.
Russ Shafer-Landau (born 1963) is an American philosopher and professor of philosophy at the University of Wisconsin, Madison.
He attended Case Western Reserve University and the University of New Hampshire as an undergraduate.
Holmes Editor: Predrag Cicovacki on books.google.com Introduction to Applied Ethics by Robert L.Holmes on books.google.com Kant's Legacy: Essays in Honor of Lewis White Beck Editor: Predrag Cicovacki.
Or more precisely: "Global rationality is reached when a person has a sufficiently integrated system of sufficiently well-grounded propositional attitudes, emotions, and actions".
Perplexities: Rational Choice, the Prisoner's Dilemma, Metaphor, Poetic Ambiguity, and Other Puzzles, Cornell University Press References Further reading Marcus, Ruth Barcan (1990).
Philosophical work Graff Fara is best known for her work on the problem of vagueness, where she defends an interest-relative theory of "contextualism".
Taylor attended Selwyn House School from 1939 to 1946, followed by Trinity College School from 1946 to 1949, and began his undergraduate education at McGill University where he received a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree in history in 1952.
Additionally, research in moral psychology is being used to inform debates in applied ethics around moral enhancement.
ISBN 0-226-57594-2 Knowing and the Known (1949) Unmodern Philosophy and Modern Philosophy ISBN 0809330792 (Lost in 1947, finally published in 2012) Lectures in China, 1919–1920 lost; finally published 1973; online See also The Philosophy of John Dewey, Edited by John J.
Comte's positivism established the initial philosophical foundations for formal sociology and social research.
Carroll co-edited a book with David Bordwell called Post-Theory: Reconstructing Film Studies (1996) which challenged grand unified theories of cinema, such as Marxist/psychoanalytic film theory, in favor of middle-level research.
His famous dictum, "the medium is the message", can be understood to be a consequentialist theory of meaning.
The Online Consciousness Conference held at Consciousness Online was founded in 2008 by Richard Brown, then a graduate student at the CUNY Graduate Center.
http://www.jstor.org/stable/30227024 References External links Dowden's Personal Webpage Bradley Dowden on YouTube
A member of the State Bar of Texas, he served as a municipal judge in San Marcos, Texas and as a magistrate in and for the State of Texas, 1983-2018.
Stevenson has also noted that some definitions are "legal" or "coercive" – their object is to create or alter rights, duties, or crimes.
Brogaard has also contributed to the topic of whether there are unconscious perceptual processes, arguing that cases of blindsight and visual for action involve unconscious perceptual processes.
The broader implication is that classical philosophical “problems” may be little more than complicated semantic illusions that are empirically unsolvable (cf.
A son of the dawn goddess Eos (Roman Aurora), he is the half-brother of her other son, Phosphorus (also called Eosphorus; the "Morning Star").
The authors of a 2022 study suggested that research with more participants is needed to discover statistically significant differences.
As a result, oral progesterone can dose-dependently produce side effects including dizziness, drowsiness, sedation, somnolence, fatigue, anxiety reduction, euphoria, and cognitive impairment.
In 1981, Jay Kim and Anthony Campagna, researchers from Ohio State University, studied the effects Flextime.
When a person struggles to fall or stay asleep without an obvious cause, it is referred to as insomnia, which is the most common sleep disorder.
Ganta feels at home at the observatory and tries to revive the disbanded astronomy club so that it can continue to be used.
The company is a medical device company providing continuum of care in the area of sleep disorder based on its WatchPAT diagnostic devices and early diagnosis of Atherosclerosis.
In addition to being a useful tool for medical professionals in the diagnosis of sleep problems, a sleep diary can help make individuals more aware of the parameters affecting their sleep.
The mechanism by which EPAP may work is not clear; it may be that the resistance to nasal exhalation leads to a buildup in CO2 which in turn increases respiratory drive, or that resistance to exhalation generates pressure that forces the upper airway to open wider.
In January 2007, Valeant announced that Jazz Pharmaceuticals had licensed the rights to market Xyrem in Canada to Valeant.
The opening sequence was shot in Urnäsch, Canton of Appenzell Ausserrhoden and the Thur waterfalls, Canton of St.
Dyssomnias are primary disorders of initiating or maintaining sleep or of excessive sleepiness and are characterized by a disturbance in the amount, quality, or timing of sleep.
In 2012, a year after the main PACE trial results, the MEA commenced an extensive opinion survey of patients who had used CBT, GET and pacing as interventions for ME/CFS in the UK.
A goblin or a succubus (since it is generally female) believed to cause nightmares (the origin of the word 'Nightmare' itself is derived from an English cognate of her name).
Zeitgebers (“time givers”) such as morning light, meal times, and social interactions help reset internal clocks.
Description Triggers PEM is triggered by "minimal" physical or mental activities that were previously tolerated, and that healthy people tolerate.
During the third and fourth weeks of November, this epidemic evidently was different from epidemics of poliomyelitis.
Over time, it became popular for tracking short-term changes in alertness during sleep studies, shift work experiments, and fatigue research.
There were three main justifications for this change: (1) not all seizures arise from the frontal lobe; (2) seizures do not necessarily occur during the night but rather from sleep; (3) hypermotor describes the most common visible clinical manifestation of the seizures.
His coach, clad in leather, basically hits on him in a gay bar, then gets killed by Freddy, including a bare-ass spanking.
As PLMs tend to be exacerbated by medications such as tricyclic antidepressants or SSRIs, it should be taken into account while choosing appropriate treatment for comorbid conditions.
In modern environments, later chronotypes experience more bedtime procrastination because their biological clocks clash with early daily routines.
The risk for the disorder increases with age, but only due to increased prevalence of co-morbid medical disorders.
Also, female workers have been reported as relative minorities within the working place; at times experiencing lower job control, bullying, discrimination, etc.
Autosomal dominant nocturnal frontal lobe epilepsy (ADNFLE) is an epileptic disorder that causes frequent violent seizures during sleep.
In the 1987 thriller film Black Widow, the villainess uses carefully formulated drugs to induce respiratory failure in her wealthy older male victims, making the cause of their deaths to appear to be due to Ondine’s curse.
To others, the involuntary movements made during sleep may appear no different from those typical of normal sleep.
There are many different surgical procedures for sleep-related breathing disorders, sometimes collectively termed "sleep surgery".
Sleep Inversion in Alzheimer's disease is considered part of the broader pattern of sleep disruptions associated with neurodegeneration.
It can also involve shifting the sleep schedule to be later or earlier than a typical schedule (e.g.
In 1986 he published the first case definition of ME in his book Postviral Fatigue Syndrome: The Saga of Royal Free Disease.
While antidepressant usage is a potential risk factor for hypnic jerks, a combination of clonazepam and antidepressants has been found to potentially mitigate hypnic jerks in those with depression and hypnic jerks.
Bell also served as Clinical Associate Professor of Pediatrics at the State University of New York at Buffalo, in Buffalo, New York.
In particular, Patton blames Chaskin, who he says claimed the subtext arose from how Patton played the part.
It also includes heavy metal music by artists like Iron Maiden and Motörhead as well as goth favorites such as Sex Gang Children.
He and Mikovits successively altered the experimental conditions until all samples gave a positive signal.
Proposals include impaired oxygen transport, impaired aerobic metabolism, impaired microvascular blood flow, loss of passive microvascular filtration and mitochondrial dysfunction.
Eastman was commissioned by NASA to create light/dark schedules for space shuttle astronauts to follow before their missions.
She describes these abstracts as suggestive of "cellular life", citing influences from Paul Klee and Edward Hopper, as well as Roman mosaics, Islamic patterns, Egyptian hieroglyphics and the shapes revealed in aerial photography.
Pacing was considered, "the most effective, safe, acceptable and preferred form of activity management for people with ME/CFS".
Where sleep anxiety is a cause of insomnia, some evidence suggests that components of CBT-I, such as sleep restriction, may worsen the anxiety.
Psychiatric effects Social jet lag has also been associated with adverse mental health outcomes, including mood disorders like major depressive disorder and bipolar disorder.
According to the US Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, indirect comparison indicates that side effects from benzodiazepines may be about twice as frequent as from nonbenzodiazepines.
Due to the potential for reversible growth impairments, the FDA advises monitoring the height and weight of children and adolescents prescribed an amphetamine pharmaceutical.
Among sleepy patients in this group, 2% of women and 4% of men meet criteria for obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS).
Sequencing of the hPer2 gene ('h' denoting a human strain, as opposed to Drosophila or mouse strains) revealed a serine-to-glycine point mutation in the Casein Kinase I (CK1) binding domain of the hPER2 protein that resulted in hypophosphorylation of hPER2 in vitro.
These seizures often involve complex motor movements, such as hand clenching, arm raising/lowering, and knee bending.
Symptoms of this disorder occur because the heart has difficulty pumping blood from the body through the lungs.
The holder of the SDS credential then appends this abbreviation to his CRT or RRT credential, thus becoming a CRT-SDS or RRT-SDS.
This version of the film was truncated to 83 minutes, with scenes cut entirely and other scenes being re-ordered.
Mood and spatial positioning improvements have been noted in people experiencing dementia with exposure to indoor light, but the evidence is currently inconclusive.
The decision explicitly left open the question of whether religious organizations could be sued for other reasons: "We express no view on whether the exception bars other types of suits, including actions by employees alleging breach of contract or tortious conduct".
Systematic screening of at-risk communities is the best approach, because case-by-case screening is not practical in endemic regions.
The CRT applicant must have six months experience in sleep studies and the RRT applicant must have three months in sleep studies.
Eastman's lab demonstrated that the amount of bright light that people were exposed to in the days before a procedure could affect their sensitivity to the bright lights used in laboratory experiments and treatments.
She is currently Professor Emeritus in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at RUMC.
One goal of pacing for people with energy-limiting conditions is to prevent or limit post-exertional malaise (PEM) or crash by conserving energy by balancing activity and rest.
Carnitine L-Carnitine is an amino acid which includes ALC, a group of natural compounds that have an important role in cellular function.
Snyder was given many contradictory diagnoses for her symptoms along with various drugs that were of no help to her.
The NBRC initiated this credential, in spite of the fact that the Registered Polysomnographic Technologist (RPSGT) credential was widely accepted in the field of sleep medicine.
The disease was first diagnosed as poliomyelitis and the first case was reported on September 25, 1948, in Akureyri.
Even in the absence of zeitgebers, humans will continue to maintain a roughly 24-hour rhythm in these biological activities.
Together, Charles and Marcia Yarborough were the parents of four sons: Charles Pelham, Lord Worsley (1887–1914), who married Alexandra Mary Freesia Vivian (1890–1963), fourth daughter of Hussey Vivian, 3rd Baron Vivian.
Neurological disorders: Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, Lewy body dementia, fronto-temporal dementia, subcortical dementia.
(Men castrated solely for purposes of singing lost only their testicles, so this is true.) He then sings for Philip.
For Stuckist shows she created satirical figurative paintings; however, her main body of work is abstract paintings and drawings, alluding to cellular forms.
Test results indicate the number of bruxing events detected per hour of sleep (bruxing index or BI).
Carmen Scheibenbogen (born 16 March 1962) is a German immunologist who is the acting director of the Institute for Medical Immunology of the Charité university hospital in Berlin.
Other consequences of a disturbed sleep in children with OSA comprise anhedonia increased fatigue and decreased interest in daily activities, which in turn can affect the child's social relationships.
Nocturia and musculoskeletal discomfort account for the physiological factors impacting sleep during the first trimester.
One is on the effects of the menstrual cycle on long COVID symptoms, and the other is on the condition's epidemiology and economic impact.
Management Since the underlying mechanism is not yet fully understood, treatment efforts have usually focused on symptom management.
BP 2.94 has shown anti-inflammatory, antinociceptive, gastric anti-secretory, and sedative and hypnotic effects in animals.
Elucidation of the mechanism of action of oral devices has provided insight into the factors that predict treatment response and may improve the selection of patients for this treatment modality.
Health and safety The health and safety effects of overtime work vary widely and much remains unknown.
He came to the conclusion that there could be no peace or progress while there remained the "permanent subjection of British to Dutch in [the Transvaal]".
CPAP has been shown to be 100% effective at eliminating obstructive sleep apneas in the majority of people who use the therapy according to the recommendations of their physician.
If we care for wider humanity at all, we must all be 'accidental' Zionists and want for the Jews, for the Israelis, what each Muslim already has for themselves: a future, a nation and a faith, secured." Ahmed is opposed to boycotts against Israel and opposes the BDS movement.
The authors of this study showed that overall health differed by age group, which reflects a generational difference with respect to their attitudes toward work.
ACT rejects the idea that behavioral changes can help insomniacs achieve better sleep since they require "sleep efforts" - actions which create more "struggle" and arouse the nervous system, leading to hyperarousal.
Some otorhinolaryngologists believe the risk factors to be structural features that give rise to a narrowed airway, such as enlarged tonsils, an enlarged posterior tongue, or fat deposits in the neck.
This suggests that the conditioning treatment may follow the operant avoidance conditioning rather than the classical conditioning pattern.
References External links Faculty profile, Rush University Medical Center Biological Rhythms Research Laboratory National Library of Medicine bibliography "Living Legend" article published in journal Sleep Advances Charmane Eastman publications indexed by Google Scholar
Following the 2003 invasion of Iraq, and mindful of the problems that had arisen with Gulf War Illnesses, they began a new long term study of the possible impact of this new deployment on the health and well being of UK Armed Forces deployed to Iraq.
The most efficient is an alpha-blocker, Prazosin, which reduces tone during sleep by blocking noradrenergic receptors.
The study showed that propofol was safe and effective for normalizing disturbed sleep but it's certainly not a definitive study." October 28, 2011: Day 20 White was back on the stand being examined by J.
Post-operative and long term care Once implanted, the hypoglossal nerve stimulator is typically activated in clinic approximately 4 weeks afterwards.
Consequences Hypopnea is a disorder that may result in excessive daytime sleepiness and compromised quality of life, including traffic accidents, diminished productivity in the workplace, and emotional problems.
Treatment Treatment of excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) relies on identifying and treating the underlying disorder which may cure the person from the EDS.
Chronotherapy has been known to cause non-24-hour sleep–wake disorder in at least three recorded cases, as reported in the New England Journal of Medicine in 1992.
Ronald Emold, with whom he co-authored a book, described him as "compassionate" and "young at heart".
Meanwhile, Isabella gets an opera house built in Madrid despite courtiers’ comments that opera will never succeed in Spain.
Fatigue, as well as sleep disturbances such as irregular and excessive sleepiness, are linked to symptoms of depression.
Most of its funds come from private and corporate donations, and the Friends of ME Research UK Friends scheme has been set up to support the charity and help with fundraising.
Jackson had 2.6 μg/ml in his femoral blood, which is used for post-mortem examination because as it is not located near any large organs and is less prone to redistribution after death.
Calcium permeability, however, is notably decreased in mutant compared to wild-type containing receptors.
Slow wave sleep is often reduced at the beginning of episodes, and REM sleep is reduced near the end.
Severe hypercapnia after low-flow oxygen therapy in patients with neuromuscular disease and diaphragmatic dysfunction.
Aristides experiences feverish symptoms and, in his dreams, believed he was being sent messages by the god of medicine, Asclepius.
Whereas the recognized patients with FFI are numerous and belong to >50 families worldwide, only about 30 cases of CJD MM2T and a few cases with mixed MM2T and MM2C features (MM2T+C) have been recorded to date.
History The KSS was introduced by Åkerstedt and Gillberg in 1990 as a unidimensional sleepiness rating scale.
The Stanford Genome Technology Center was included in the Human Genome Project that began in 1990 and was completed in 2003.
The same year, she exhibited in the Stuckist show, The Resignation of Sir Nicholas Serota and took part, dressed as a Pierrot, in the first Stuckist demonstration against the Turner Prize outside Tate Britain.
Different self-reported causes of CFS are associated with significant differences in clinical measures and outcomes.
It has greatly improved selectivity compared to the earlier selective histamine H3 receptor agonist (R)-α-methylhistamine.
In a landmark study, the World Health Organization and the International Labour Organization estimated that over 745,000 people died from ischemic heart disease or stroke in 2016 as a result of having worked 55 hours or more per week.
In late 2009, Moussier developed Guillain–Barré syndrome and was forced to alter her shooting schedule on Mi pecado in order to promote her recovery.
It is also associated with irritability: people who get angry shortly before sleeping tend to experience sleep drunkenness.
Researchers traditionally use the terms morningness and eveningness for the two chronotypes, or diurnality and nocturnality in animal behavior.
Shallow breathing, thoracic breathing, costal breathing or chest breathing is the drawing of minimal breath into the lungs, usually by drawing air into the chest area using the intercostal muscles rather than throughout the lungs via the diaphragm.
Sleep terrors are mainly characterised by screaming, agitation, flushed face, sweating and only share the inconsolability with confusional arousals.
Synopsis King Philip V of Spain suffers from mental troubles which have made his counsellors deem him unfit to rule.
Unlike confusional arousals and sleep walking, patients experiencing night terrors seem to react to some type of frightening image.
To aid him in his task, Milner recruited a team of gifted young lawyers and administrators, most of them Oxford graduates, who became known as "Milner's Kindergarten".
Common causes of chronic insomnia include persistent stress, trauma, work schedules, poor sleep habits, medications, and other mental health disorders.
Ahmed has called on the US State Department to designate the Muslim Brotherhood as a Foreign Terrorist Organization.
Example Here is an example of how chronotherapy could work over a week's course of treatment, with the patient going to sleep 3 hours later every day until the desired sleep and wake time is reached.
Among these metabolites, the active sympathomimetics are 4-hydroxyamphetamine, 4-hydroxynorephedrine, norephedrine, and N-hydroxyamphetamine.
Muscimol, the compound from which gaboxadol was derived, is a naturally occurring constituent of Amanita mushrooms such as Amanita muscaria (fly agaric) and is a potent GABAA receptor agonist similarly.
While patients with narcolepsy don't necessarily experience all symptoms of the classic tetrad, it is unlikely for a patient with narcolepsy to not have at least one of these symptoms.
He was raised to the peerage as Baron Milner of St James's in the County of London and of Cape Town in the Colony of the Cape of Good Hope.
sleep disorders associated with disorders classified elsewhere and psychiatric disorders frequently encountered in the differential diagnosis of sleep disorders) are presented in the appendices and count 13 diagnostics.
Her one oscillator model paved the way for the current established model showing sleep controlled by a single circadian oscillator and a homeostatic component for sleep need.
Treatment process The individual places the sensor (usually located in briefs or underwear) and turns the alarm device on (there are various types of alarms) before going to sleep.
A disease with symptoms similar to poliomyelitis broke out in the town of Akureyri in northern Iceland in the winter of 1948–1949.
The International Classification of Sleep Disorders (ICSD) uses a multiaxial system for stating and coding diagnoses both in clinical reports or for database purposes.
In 2015, the US Institute of Medicine produced a report with new diagnostic criteria that described ME/CFS as a "serious, chronic, complex systemic disease".
Its early products included technology for early detection of heart disease (EndoPAT) and detection of sleep disorders (WatchPAT).
History The OMF was founded in 2012 by Linda Tannenbaum after her daughter became ill with ME/CFS in 2006.
Kanami is often depicted as a strong tomboy but also has a cute side to her: hates ghost stories, likes sweets and love talk.
During an epilepsy and intensive care study, the lack of a preceding spike discharge measured on an epilepsy monitoring unit, along with the presence only at sleep onset, helped differentiate hypnic jerks from epileptic myoclonus.
The test used a biotechnological device designed by Davis and his team, which is called the "nanoneedle".
Around 70% of people experience them at least once in their lives, with 10% experiencing them daily.
This machine can help with the quality of sleep someone receives when using it and also lowering their blood pressure and other medical-related problems one might have when being diagnosed with this disease.
Subsequently, according to Hayman, she was fed "wine, gruel and other things" using the "spout of a toy teapot inserted between two broken teeth".
In the longest, largest phase 3 trial, patients in the Lunesta group reported falling asleep an average of 15 minutes faster and sleeping an average of 37 minutes longer than those in the placebo group.
Doxylamine is metabolized in the liver primarily by the cytochrome P450 enzymes CYP2D6, CYP1A2, and CYP2C9.
Snyder thoroughly investigates the illness, but by the end of the movie few of the answers she sought at the beginning of her quest have been found.
When sleep is attained, the spoon will fall and strike the plate, awakening the subject, who then checks to see how much time has passed.
One thing that can happen is a sleep disorder called sexsomnia, where an individual can engage in sexual behaviors with oneself or others.
According to DRX, a drug-data report published by Bloomberg, Jazz Pharmaceuticals price increase on Xyrem topped the list of price hikes in 2014.
Englund was actually prepared to insert one of his hand's knife blades into Jesse's mouth instead of merely caressing his lips with it as he does in the finished film, but Patton did not feel comfortable with it.
KCMHR did not find an early and anticipated "tidal wave" or "tsumani" of PTSD in Regulars post deployment, but did show that reservists experienced more frequent and prolonged ill health that Regulars.
The use of pharmacological approaches to treatment are less successful due to the risks of administering sleep-promoting agents early in the morning.
A 2008 "Sleep in America" poll conducted by the National Sleep Foundation found that 42% of respondents awakened during the night at least a few nights a week, and 29% said they woke up too early and couldn't get back to sleep.
Another problem with wearing a splint can be stimulation of salivary flow, and for this reason some advise to start wearing the splint about 30 minutes before going to bed so this does not lead to difficulty falling asleep.
It is being run as a partnership between Action for ME and the University of Edinburgh's MRC Human Genetics Unit, with Chris Ponting as chief investigator, and with £3.2 million in funding from the UK's Medical Research Council and the National Institute for Health Research.
The syndrome causes significant distress or functional impairment and cannot be better explained by external influences such as changes in the sleep-wake cycle, social norms, substance use, medication, or another mental or medical disorder.
Rich, who has appeared from time to time commenting on developments in the theatrical and political world, meets Isabella again, no longer at court because Philip is dead and her hostile stepson is King.
The installation consisted of "a black confessional cube" which rests on an incline in a darkened chamber.
In 2011, the editor of Science formally retracted its XMRV paper while the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences similarly retracted a 2010 paper which had appeared to support the finding of a connection between XMRV and CFS.
This treatment can be used by people with delayed sleep phase disorder (DSPD), who generally cannot reset their circadian rhythm by moving their bedtime and rising time earlier.
Kenny De Meirleir – Man on the Move for ME/CFS, ProHealth ME/CFS & Chronic Infection of the Gut – Notes on Dr.
Compliance and acceptance of use of CPAP therapy can be a limiting factor, with 8% of people stopping use after the first night and 50% within the first year.
The patient shows some behavioral or psychological factors which play a part in the maintenance of the insomnia complaints.
The histaminergic, dopaminergic, serotonergic, noradrenergic, and cholinergic nuclei which the lateral hypothalamic orexin neurons project onto constitute the primary components of the ascending reticular activating system.
The main metabolic pathways involve aromatic para-hydroxylation, aliphatic alpha- and beta-hydroxylation, N-oxidation, N-dealkylation, and deamination.
Additionally, he served as a consultant for smallpox to the Ministry of Health and worked as a lecturer on infectious diseases at the University of London and at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine.
The first patient evaluated during the study reported "disabling early evening sleepiness" and "early morning awakening"; similar symptoms were also reported in her family members.
Since the individuals don't have a conscious feeling of doing the automatic behavior, they automatically doubt that their mind could be responsible for it, pushing them to believe someone else, or something else, is causing their behavior.
Milestones of sleep disorder classifications Introduction In 1979, the first Diagnostic Classification of Sleep and Arousal Disorders (DCSAD) was developed by the Association of Sleep Disorders Centers (ASDC) and the Association for the Psychophysiological Study of Sleep.
The tongue has muscular connections to the mandible and therefore is pulled forwards at the same time, which prevents obstruction of the airway at the oropharynx.
In May 2001, Mikovits left the NCI to work at EpiGenX Biosciences in Santa Barbara, CA, a drug-discovery company.
Techniques based on movement, postural awareness and personal coaching are intended to modify the production of stress hormones.
During the 1950s, it was widely used as a prophylactic agent in western Africa, leading to a sharp decline in infection rates.
He served as the Chief Medical Officer at the Open Medicine Foundation (OMF) and was co-director of the Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS) Collaboration at the Harvard-Affiliated Hospitals sponsored by OMF.
This drug helps to normalise sleep architecture and inhibits the intrusion of REM sleep elements like paralysis during the day.
Some research also suggests evening light may blunt circadian amplitude, potentially making weekday realignment more difficult, though the specific mechanisms aren't fully clear.
Among older workers, longer work hours might be beneficial as work-based social networks offer a structured environment, social support, and companionship.
History Milestones The first book on sleep was published in 1830 by Robert MacNish; it described sleeplessness, nightmares, sleepwalking and sleep-talking.
There have, however, even been cases of LO-CCHS where family members found to have it have been asymptomatic.
While not necessary for a diagnosis of narcolepsy, certain survey questionnaires like the Epworth sleepiness scale can be useful in determining the presence and absence of symptoms associated with narcolepsy.
Sources Scott & White Sleep Disorders Center website Scott & White Memorial Hospital Perfect Sleep Infographic
when they described 5 members of a 4-generation Swedish family where cerebellar ataxia and sensorineural deafness presented as an autosomal dominant trait, 4 of them had narcolepsy and 2 had diabetes mellitus.
Early life and education Tompkins was born in Many, Louisiana to Horace and Ruby Elizabeth Tompkins, a teacher.
ME Research UK is a medical research charity based in the United Kingdom with the principal aim of commissioning and funding scientific (biomedical) investigation into the causes, consequences and treatment of myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome (ME/CFS).
Sodium oxybate is used as a hypnotic in the treatment of narcolepsy and uniquely improves sleep quality as well as symptoms like daytime sleepiness and cataplexy in people with this condition.
Causes Risk factors According to the American Academy of Sleep Medicine (AASM), there is a wide range of potential causes, including anxiety, stimulants like caffeine and nicotine, stress, and strenuous activities in the evening.
However, they lag behind larks in academic performance, and they tend to have unhealthier eating habits, as well as higher rates of smoking.
In some locations a government program, separate from Medicare, can be used to claim a reimbursement for all or part of the cost of the PAP device.
Kim was struck down with CFIDS (Chronic Fatigue Immune Dysfunction Syndrome) in the mid-1990s while working as an assistant producer with Jodie Foster on Home For the Holidays.
This physiological phenomenon can also be mistaken for myoclonic seizure, but it can also be distinguished by different criteria, such as the fact that hypnic jerk occurs at sleep onset only or that the EEG is normal and constant.
According to Maxi, he spent 20 minutes writing the lyrics after being given the song's title by Rollo Armstrong, before finishing them in the studio the following evening and laying the vocal down in about 25 minutes.
Milner was appointed Secretary of State for War for the duration of the conflict, which resulted in an Allied victory and armistice in November 1918.
This enzyme is essential for the regulation of neuron maturation, differentiation, migration, and most importantly, survival.
Oral appliances Oral appliances to protrude the tongue and lower jaw forward have been used to reduce sleep apnea and snoring, and hold potential for treating UARS, but this approach remains controversial.
Function Through the diverse outputs of the orexin system, the orexin neurons in the lateral hypothalamus mediate an array of functions.
Her character, Justina, was not recast, as Osorio had planned in advance for the possibility of Moussier's departure.
For humans, the average duration is 24 hours and 20 minutes, and individually some people have more or less than 24 hours.
Standardized questionnaires may be used to evaluate the severity of the sleep problem or assess for other possible sleep problems.
The home footage highlighted the authenticity of the strain ME put on Brae and her husband's marriage, as well as the resilience they showed in overcoming these strains.
The classification was much more discussed by experts of the field and led to the third edition of the ICSD.
The term "Pickwickian syndrome" has fallen out of favor because it does not distinguish obesity hypoventilation syndrome and sleep apnea as separate disorders (which may coexist).
Action for ME is a charitable organisation and self-help group based in the United Kingdom and dedicated to helping people with M.E., which stands for myalgic encephalomyelitis.
Moreover, because the respondent, in this case, was a minister within the meaning of the ministerial exception, the First Amendment requires dismissal of her employment discrimination suit against her religious employer.
The major metabolic pathway is amide hydrolysis into armodafinil acid, with the second most major pathway being sulfone formation into modafinil sulfone.
Oral tablets containing 12.5 mg doxylamine succinate as well as oral capsules containing 25 mg doxylamine succinate were also previously available but were discontinued.
In genetically engineered mice lacking the DAT, modafinil lacked wake-promoting activity, suggesting that this activity was DAT-dependent.
By three months postpartum, mothers' and infants' sleep tend to stabilise and mothers' sleep becomes more regular.
Unawareness of the problem: Patients usually sleep normally despite the sounds and the effort to breathe.
Farinelli and Isabella go with him, and Farinelli gives a concert in the woods, to which all the local villagers and forest-dwelling commoners come uninvited.
Education Copestake was educated at the University of Cambridge where she was awarded a Bachelor of Arts degree in Natural Sciences.
Stochastic models generally use the definition of segments of words as basic semantic units for the semantic models, and in some cases involve a two layered approach.
Sinewave synthesis, or sine wave speech, is a technique for synthesizing speech by replacing the formants (main bands of energy) with pure tone whistles.
The reason behind the choice of F i n V e c t {\displaystyle \mathbf {FinVect} } as the category of semantics is that vector spaces are the usual setting of distributional reading in computational linguistics and natural language processing.
In 2000, he founded CICLing conference to exchange of opinions between the scientists of different countries in the growing area of computational linguistics and intelligent text processing.
Amazon Web Services) and codecs, have solidified the voice computing field and made it widely relevant to the public at large.
History Transana is a product of the Digital Insight Project, and it is being developed with funding from the National Science Foundation through the National Partnership for Computational Infrastructure at the San Diego Supercomputer Center and the TalkBank Project at Carnegie Mellon University.
In natural language processing, linguistic representations, such as syntactic representations, have long been in the service of improving the output of information retrieval systems, such as search engines and machine translation systems.
Meanwhile, the practical MT system MT-IT-EC specific to communication domain was also striking to notice, for it has greatly improved the efficiency and productivity in the issue of publications.
A good summarization technology aims to combine the main themes with completeness, readability, and concision.
It is independent of native language, language skills, word comprehension and a speaker's intelligence.
Researchers also convene at the annual Text Retrieval Conference (TREC) to discuss their findings regarding different systems and methods of information retrieval, and the conference has served as a point of reference for the CLIR subfield.
In a 2020 paper, she argued that machine learning models for natural language processing which are trained only on form, without connection to meaning, cannot meaningfully understand language.
Identifying complex words is a challenge addressed by machine learning classifiers trained on labeled data.
Specifically, in ESA, a word is represented as a column vector in the tf–idf matrix of the text corpus and a document (string of words) is represented as the centroid of the vectors representing its words.
Awards and honors In 2021, Arka was elected a fellow of the Academy of the Social Sciences in Australia.
In March 2025, the company introduced a Grounded Language Model (GLM) for factual accuracy in enterprise AI applications.
TextGraphs Workshop series The TextGraphs Workshop series is a series of regular academic workshops intended to encourage the synergy between the fields of natural language processing (NLP) and graph theory.
History Phase I (2004–7) of the work consisted of digitising and integrating existing paper and electronic lists.
Individuals with physical disabilities can use voice commands and transcription to navigate electronics hands-free.
History MBROLA project started in 1995 at the TCTS Lab of the Faculté polytechnique de Mons (Belgium) as a scientific project to obtain a set of speech synthesizers for as many languages as possible.
Coruña Corpus, a corpus of late Modern English scientific writing covering the period 1700–1900, developed by the Muste research group at the University of A Coruña DBLP Discovery Dataset (D3), a corpus of computer science publications with sentient metadata.
The association's activities cover all aspects of speech processing, including computational, linguistic, and theoretical aspects.
However, because these synthesizers do not rely on a corpus, there is no noticeable degradation in performance when they are given more unusual or awkward phrases.
The use of voice recognition software, in conjunction with a digital audio recorder and a personal computer running word-processing software, has proven useful for restoring damaged short-term memory capacity in individuals who have suffered a stroke or have undergone a craniotomy.
By 2001, Plum had commercialized the open-standard Plum VoiceXML IVR platform which facilitated the creation of dynamic telecom applications.
Later research also shows that fMLLR is an excellent acoustic feature for DNN/HMM hybrid speech recognition models.
The project was launched on 17 January 2017, after the publication on 15 November 2016 of a ProPublica news story about the difficulty of obtaining hard data on hate crimes.
In information extraction, a named entity is a real-world object, such as a person, location, organization, product, etc., that can be denoted with a proper name.
Work Coecke's research focuses on the foundations of physics, more particularly category theory, logic, and diagrammatic reasoning, with application to quantum informatics, quantum gravity, and NLP.
In natural language processing a w-shingling is a set of unique shingles (therefore n-grams) each of which is composed of contiguous subsequences of tokens within a document, which can then be used to ascertain the similarity between documents.
Modern revision The "speech is special" claim has been dropped, as it was found that speech perception could occur for nonspeech sounds (for example, slamming doors for duplex perception).
This is not an issue for modern Korean, which is usually written horizontally; until the second half of the 20th century, however, Korean was often written vertically.
If the confidence level be below 100 percent, the system will provide options of all the found matches.
She has made seminal contributions to the fields of natural language processing and multi-agent systems.
In computer science, a chart parser is a type of parser suitable for ambiguous grammars (including grammars of natural languages).
Semantic analysis refers to a formal analysis of meaning, and computational refers to approaches that in principle support effective implementation in digital computers.
Accompanying him were five other people (including his sister and his fiancée), and the Cadillac was followed by a film crew which documented the four-day journey; the documentary was directed by Lewis Rapkin.
It is particularly distinguished from WordNet by the way it was created automatically from a dictionary.
1976) is an American computer scientist and professor of computer science at the University of California, Berkeley.
Model 4 In IBM Model 4, each word is dependent on the previously aligned word and on the word classes of the surrounding words.
Where a Web server receives an HTTP request and returns data about a Web site, a model server receives data, and returns a decision or prediction about that data: e.g.
History Origin Documenting Hate was created in response to ProPublica's dissatisfaction with the quality of reporting and tracking of evidence of hate crimes and bias incidents after the United States presidential election of 2016.
The synsets include those already featured in the wordnets of other languages and synsets that correspond to high-frequency word senses found in parallel corpora.
In advertising signage and in cursive handwriting, diacritics often take forms unfamiliar to other Latin alphabets.
As a controlled language without complex constructions or ambiguous usages, Basic English was designed to be easy to learn, to sound, and to speak, with a vocabulary of 850 words composed specifically to facilitate the communication of facts, not the communication of abstract thought.
The words of the B vocabulary are deliberately constructed for political purposes to convey complex ideas in a simple form.
In 1995, the generator had "282 sentence skeletons, 170 independent clauses, 183 adjectives, and 123 nouns".
This tool for analyzing morphemes was developed at the Matsumoto laboratory, Nara Institute of Science and Technology.
integrated in dandelon.com) as well as in high quality (expert) information systems, and in document management and content management environments.
This aspect of the theory was dropped, however, with the discovery that prelinguistic infants could already detect most of the phonetic contrasts used to separate different speech sounds.
One of the studies looking at RTT as a means of measuring MT system quality also looked at its ability to predict whether a text was suitable for machine translation.
Based on this Java implementation, the large scale electronic lexicon UBY has automatically been created - it is the result of using UBY-LMF to standardize a range of diverse lexical resources frequently used for NLP applications.
Through CMs it is possible to build PCFG-based RNA profiles where related RNAs can be represented by a consensus secondary structure.
Given the difficulties of identifying word senses, other tasks relevant to this topic include word-sense induction, subcategorization acquisition, and evaluation of lexical resources.
Examples Textual entailment can be illustrated with examples of three different relations: An example of a positive TE (text entails hypothesis) is: text: If you help the needy, God will reward you.
In 2013 she joined the George Washington University as an associate professor, where she was promoted to full professor in 2017.
==> There is a choral society falucharde Wednesday, come many, the faluchards sing loose-living women!
Moment generating function The moment generating function is defined as M ( t ; s ) = E ( e t X ) = 1 ζ ( s ) ∑ k = 1 ∞ e t k k s .
The addition of the term for lower order n-grams adds more weight to the overall probability when the count for the higher order n-grams is zero.
Since 2000 the development of language resources, has broadened to include annotation of function words and multiword expressions covering particular senses or types of words and expressions.
Approaches Textual entailment measures natural language understanding as it asks for a semantic interpretation of the text, and due to its generality remains an active area of research.
Other approaches use machine learning techniques such as Bayesian inferencing and Artificial Neural Networks.
The forward part is trained by repeatedly predicting the next token, and the backward part is trained by repeatedly predicting the previous token.
Rigid designators usually include proper names as well as certain natural terms like biological species and substances.
In computational linguistics, JAPE is the Java Annotation Patterns Engine, a component of the open-source General Architecture for Text Engineering (GATE) platform.
2006 (Online bei zpid.de, PDF-Datei) Mahmoud Gindiyeh: Anwendung wahrscheinlichkeitstheoretischer Methoden in der linguistischen Informationsverarbeitung.
Patents 2005 pending patent application for a newly developed hybrid technology that uses the intelligence of neural networks for machine translation.
See also Computer-assisted qualitative data analysis software Language documentation Language documentation tools and methods References Notes Crasborn, O., Sloetjes, H.
As of 2017, the share of UTF-8 traffic on the Internet had expanded to over 90% worldwide, with only 1.2% still using Shift-JIS and EUC.
Given the enormous lead it already enjoys and its increasing use as a lingua franca in other spheres, English web content may continue to dominate even as English first-language Internet users decline.
The management team has grown to include Alan Pan (SVP of Marketing), Roberto Pieraccini (who joined as CTO in 2005), Albert Kim (SVP of Engineering), David Ho (SVP of Business Solutions) and L.
When people make these decisions, it is braille transcription; when computers make these decisions, it is braille translation.
Lesk received the Flame award for lifetime achievement from Usenix in 1994, is a Fellow of the ACM in 1996, and in 2005 was elected to the National Academy of Engineering.
SemEval's 3, 2 or 1 year(s) cycle After SemEval-2010, many participants feel that the 3-year cycle is a long wait.
LVCSR only recognizes words that are found in their dictionary databases, and these dictionaries and databases are unable to keep up with the constant evolving of new terminology, names and words.
This can be as simple as dividing counts by the total number of tokens in a document (called relative frequency or proportions), dividing by the maximum frequency in each document (called prop max), or taking the log of frequencies (called log count).
Structured data is fed into NLG software and run through a narrative template, producing content that reads as if a human writer created it.
These features are compared with an abstract vector-like representation of a character, which might reduce to one or more glyph prototypes.
In a brute force approach, the algorithm would search for friendlies in the set of hundreds of thousands of inflected word forms and ideally find the corresponding root form friend.
It supports multiple hierarchical layers of segmentation, named entity annotation, speaker lists, topic lists, and overlapping speakers.
The theoretical keystrokes per character, KSPC, of a keyboard is KSPC=1.00, and of multi-tap is KSPC=2.03.
The project homepage offers ready-to-use models for research purposes, tutorials, and comprehensive documentation.
It increases the IBM Model 3 translation process to four steps: The last step is called distortion instead of alignment because it is possible to produce the same translation with the same alignment in different ways.
The general editor of the database is Bernard Comrie of the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology, Leipzig.
81-87 1999: "Soziophonetische Betrachtungen zu deutschen Dialekten in Lothringen (Frankreich)", Folia Linguistica XXXII, 3-4, 1999, 161-199 2000: (with J.
Kevin was also a founding member of the 1980s funk band "Leftover Funk" and the "Petty Punkasses" in 1998.
Genre tends to be very important; for example the verb veer has a very specific meaning in weather forecasts (wind direction is changing in a clockwise direction) which it does not have in general English, and a weather-forecast generator must be aware of this genre-specific meaning.
He explains that the "models were trained on a customised corpus of 600,000 lines of poetry ranging from the romantic epoch to the 20th century avant garde".
Products The company's core businesses are in hardware and software related to speech processing solutions.
The linguist Anne De Roeck and colleagues provided a counter-example: "Isn't it true that example-sentences that people that you know produce are more likely to be accepted?" (De Roeck et al., 1982).
History Plum Voice, founded in 2000 as The Plum Group, Inc., was incorporated to create technologies for personalized audio communication.
A key feature distinguishing North Side's technology from an intelligent personal assistant based on machine learning, such as Apple's Siri or Google's Now, is its ability to clarify ambiguous or incomplete input and handle paraphrases, using a deterministic, rule-based approach.
For example, the domain concept Value-Change can be expressed in many ways: The temperature rose: the verb rose is used for a Value-Change in temperature which increases the value.
Gen-2, introduced in March 2023 and made publicly available in June 2023, added text-to-video capabilities, enabling users to generate videos from text prompts alone.
Career He is a professor in the Department of Algebra at the Budapest Institute of Technology, where he works on an open source Hungarian morphological analyzer.
One of the related issues is modification of the pitch contour of the sentence, depending upon whether it is an affirmative, interrogative or exclamatory sentence.
Abstract and concrete modules In GF, grammars are divided to two module types: an abstract module, containing judgement forms cat and fun.
The company's name is a reference to one of the pioneers of machine translation — Warren Weaver — who first proposed the idea of using computers to ‘decode’ or ‘decrypt’ language in a memorandum back in 1947.
{\displaystyle M(t;s)={\frac {\operatorname {Li} _{s}(e^{t})}{\zeta (s)}}{\text{ for }}t<0.} Since this does not converge on an open interval containing t = 0 {\displaystyle t=0} , the moment generating function does not exist.
The latter involved processing original Wall Street Journal articles, to perform tasks such as identifying key job changes in businesses and summarising articles.
In Stage 2, the entire architecture is unfrozen, and in Stage 3, the vision encoder is frozen while the language model is fine-tuned.
Infants depend on exemplification of such mapping relations to acquire languages and all meaningful linguistic representations have been proved to depend on such mappings.
The method is called "second-order" because it doesn't look at the direct co-occurrence of the target words (which would be first-order), but at the co-occurrence of their neighbors (a second level of association).
He is a founder of the Quantum Physics and Logic community and the Applied Category Theory communities and conference series, and of the journal Compositionality.
The system used multiple "domain specific embedded languages" for semantic and pragmatic processing and for generation of natural language text from the semantic net.
The work of Coecke and his co-workers on the application of categorical quantum mechanics to natural language processing in computational linguistics was featured in New Scientist in December 2010.
History AppTek was acquired in 1998 by Lernout & Hauspie (at the time a NASDAQ publicly traded company), AppTek organized a management buy-out and went private again in 2001.
Unlike previous submissions that were intended to be pranks, this submission were largely made by Chinese academics, who were using SCIgen papers to boost their publication record.
A chatbot or chatterbot is a software application used to conduct an on-line chat conversation via text or text-to-speech, in lieu of providing direct contact with a live human agent.
A combined method called IQmt which incorporates BLEU and additional metrics NIST, GTM, ROUGE and METEOR has been implemented by Gimenez and Amigo [3].
BulSemCor was created by the Department of Computational Linguistics at the Institute for Bulgarian Language of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences.
Background and development Jais was developed in response to the limited availability of advanced generative artificial intelligence models for the Arabic language, despite it being spoken by over 400 million people.
LetterWise – Patented predictive text entry systems—Hit the key with the letter you want, if it doesn't come up, hit Next until it does.
T9 was used on phones from Verizon, NEC, Nokia, Samsung Electronics, Siemens, Sony Mobile, Sanyo, SAGEM and others, as well as PDAs such as Avigo during the late 1990s.
For example, using the historical data for July 1, 2005, the software produces: Grass pollen levels for Friday have increased from the moderate to high levels of yesterday with values of around 6 to 7 across most parts of the country.
Typology As of May 2020, no widely used standard typology of language resources has been established (current proposals include the LREMap, METASHARE, and, for data, the LLOD classification).
A subset of lexicons integrated in UBY have been converted to a Semantic Web format according to the lemon lexicon model.
SALTMIL 2004 56-59 [3] Explicit Finitism, International Journal of Theoretical Physics 2003/2 301-307 [4] Mathematical Linguistics (Jointly with G.K.
This data is often used in financial markets as part of a trading strategy or by businesses to judge market sentiment and make better business decisions.
Predictive text choosing a default different from that which the user expects has similarities with the Cupertino effect, by which spell-check software changes a spelling to that of an unintended word.
Location The institute is established behind Sindh Museum and Sindhi Language Authority, N-5 National Highway, Qasimabad, Hyderabad, Sindh.
In contrast to the other models mentioned above, this model is closer in duplicating human insight while grading essays.
Complexity The execution time of the algorithm is O ( n 3 ) {\displaystyle O(n^{3})} in a worst case and O ( n 2 ) {\displaystyle O(n^{2})} in an average case.
This model, partially influenced by the work of Sydney Lamb, was extensively used by Schank's students at Yale University, such as Robert Wilensky, Wendy Lehnert, and Janet Kolodner.
Software quality To compare the quality of different machine translation systems, users perform RTT and compare the resulting text to the original.
Internal memorandum, Haskins Laboratories, New Haven, CT, 1980.[1] Remez, R.E., Rubin, P.E., Pisoni, D.B., & Carrell, T.D.
The term input method generally refers to a particular way to use the keyboard to input a particular language, for example the Cangjie method, the pinyin method, or the use of dead keys.
In ordinary conversation and human communication in general, it has been demonstrated logically and mathematically that meaning is utterly dependent on the true and appropriate pragmatic mapping of symbols to their conventional logical objects.
2012 - TrulyHandsfree released into Samsung's Galaxy S2 for "Hey Galaxy" wake word 2013 – TrulyHandsfree wake words migrated to many new platforms and began shipping as MotoVoice in the Google-owned MotoX.
Examples The simplest type of lexical choice involves mapping a domain concept (perhaps represented in an ontology) to a word.
In early 2012, Attensity Group divested itself of the Empolis business unit via a management buyout; that unit currently conducts business under its pre-merger name.
As a continuation of the stimulus-response library, various other database queries and assertions were tested to arrive at each of Albert's responses.
Keywords with the same or similar meanings in a natural language sense tend to be "close" in units of normalized Google distance, while words with dissimilar meanings tend to be farther apart.
Text corpora are used by both AI developers to train large language models and corpus linguists and within other branches of linguistics for statistical analysis, hypothesis testing, finding patterns of language use, investigating language change and variation, and teaching language proficiency.
Recognition criteria The verbal overshadowing effect may effect changes in recognition criteria rather than in processing style or underlying memory.
BERT pioneered an approach involving the use of a dedicated [CLS] token prepended to the beginning of each sentence inputted into the model; the final hidden state vector of this token encodes information about the sentence and can be fine-tuned for use in sentence classification tasks.
The result is an architecture that is significantly more efficient in processing long sequences compared to previous methods.
The challenge the developers faced was the difficulty in offering useful suggestions for misspelled words.
It uses the dynamic programming approach—partial hypothesized results are stored in a structure called a chart and can be re-used.
The same word, in a decompositional model, would likely be stored under the root word "cat" and could be searched for after removing the "s" suffix.
The basic functionality of AUTINDEX is the extraction of key words from a document to represent the semantics of the document.
Said in other terms, this is the difference between a description in intension (a morphological pattern) and a description in extension (a paradigm).
AMiner name disambiguation dataset CiteSeerX name disambiguation dataset Semantic Scholar Author Name Disambiguation (S2AND) dataset Source Codes Beard Name disambiguation in AMiner == References ==
For instance, pressing "4663" will typically be interpreted as the word good, provided that a linguistic database in English is currently in use, though alternatives such as home, hood and hoof are also valid interpretations of the sequence of key strokes.
If q = 2 {\displaystyle q=2} or q = 3 {\displaystyle q=3} both distances coincide because any pair of elements from Z / 2 Z {\textstyle \mathbb {Z} /2\mathbb {Z} } or Z / 3 Z {\textstyle \mathbb {Z} /3\mathbb {Z} } differ by 1, but the distances are different for larger q {\displaystyle q} .
Concept hierarchy derivation In the concept hierarchy derivation step, the OL system tries to arrange the extracted concepts in a taxonomic structure.
In his studies Collins covers a wide range of topics such as parse re-ranking, tree kernels, semi-supervised learning, machine translation and exponentiated gradient algorithms with a general focus on discriminative models and structured prediction.
Because all rules are hand-written, you can easily debug a rule-based system to see exactly where a given error enters the system, and why.
Series Mahabharat: Ek Dharmayudh is an Indian mythological OTT series released on October 2025 and streamed on JioHotstar.
Selected papers from "The Face of Text" were published by Text Technology, a journal of computer text processing.
The model transitions from a time-invariant to a time-varying framework, which impacts both the computation and efficiency of the system.
The text-similarity engine studied duplicate publications and potential plagiarism in biomedical literature.
How it relates References See also Speech recognition Articulatory synthesis Automated lip reading Computational linguistics
The W3C Linked Data for Language Technology Community Group assembles user cases and requirements for language technology applications that use Linked Data.
Thus, strong evidence illustrates the promising field of machine translation in the future market of China.
Critics also argue that biases and assumptions in original data sets can lead to reinforced bias in the stories generated by natural language processors, such as Narrative Science.
Arka has carried out language documentation in Merauke, Indonesia and is currently working on the Enggano language, an endangered language on the island of Enggano, southwest of Bengkulu, Sumatra based on a grant from the Endangered Language Fund and an AHRC grant.
In 1957, the Language Institute of Chinese Academy of Sciences took the initiative in Russian-Chinese MT research program and set up an MT research group.
Contextual word representation The architecture of ELMo accomplishes a contextual understanding of tokens.
MUC is a competition-based conference that focused on the following domains: MUC-1 (1987), MUC-3 (1989): Naval operations messages.
The ratio of the lengths of sequences of translated words is called fertility, which tells how many foreign words each native word produces.
Main parts Fundamentally, an item consists of: An identifier (the QID), related to a label and a description.
Some data center companies have also invested or promised to invest in the infrastructure of local communities.
These approaches are related to word clustering methods, where co-occurrences between words can be obtained on the basis of grammatical or collocational relations.
In human translations, in particular on the part of interpreters, selectivity on the part of the translator in performing a translation is often commented on when one of the two parties being served by the interpreter knows both languages.
ICR cannot read cursive handwriting since it must still be able to assess each character individually.
The decisions made usually deal with things like the creation of new rules, the removal of existing rules, the choice of a rule to be applied or the merging of some existing rules.
See also Cohort model Speech recognition Auditory phonetics Trace (psycholinguistics) Haskins Laboratories References External links Haskins Laboratories Archived 2019-05-09 at the Wayback Machine Source of pdfs upon the motor theory of speech perception Archived 2009-05-04 at the Wayback Machine
While not involving neural networks, such systems featured prompt-like workflows that influenced later human-in-the-loop AI designs.
GeneRIFs are an unusual type of textual genre, and they have recently been the subject of a number of articles from the natural language processing community.
The Clustering By Committee (CBC) also uses syntactic contexts, but exploits a similarity matrix to encode the similarities between words and relies on the notion of committees to output different senses of the word of interest.
The database has an especially large selection of indigenous South American languages and Northeast Caucasian languages.
Though not as predominant as BERTScore, sentence embeddings are commonly used for sentence similarity evaluation which sees common use for the task of optimizing a Large language model's generation parameters is often performed via comparing candidate sentences against reference sentences.
See also Bilingual dictionary Bing Translator Comparison of machine translation applications Google Translate PROMT Reverso References External links Official website
The engine has earned Lexalytics a spot on EContent's “Top 100 Companies in the Digital Content Industry” List for 2014–2015.
With Alison Simmons, she is co-founder of the Embedded EthiCS programme at Harvard, which embeds ethics lessons into computer science courses.
Users of the portal explore tools to use in their research, and can rate, review, and comment on tools, browse curated lists of recommended tools, and add tags to tools.
It is funded by the Irish state and Interreg and maintained by Fiontar & Scoil na Gaeilge, the Irish-language unit of Dublin City University, in collaboration with the Terminology Committee of Foras na Gaeilge.
Domain-specific restrictions on the ESA model are sometimes used to provide more robust document matching.
A braille translator is a software program that translates electronic text (such as an MS-Word file) into braille and sends it to a braille peripheral, such as a braille embosser (which produces a hard copy of the newly created braille).
In natural language processing, textual entailment (TE), also known as natural language inference (NLI), is a directional relation between text fragments.
Product lines LENA Start LENA Start is a program for parents that utilises feedback from the LENA System in conjunction with weekly group sessions in order to address the home language environment.
Each of the generated instructions is used to prompt the target LLM, followed by each of the inputs.
See also Semantic markup OWL [Web Ontology Language] WYSIWYM Protégé (software) References External links Nguyen, Tu (2013).
The Grammar Matrix: An open-source starter-kit for the rapid development of cross-linguistically consistent broad-coverage precision grammars.
A parse tree or parsing tree (also known as a derivation tree or concrete syntax tree) is an ordered, rooted tree that represents the syntactic structure of a string according to some context-free grammar.
The following example is a title and summary, appearing at the top of an article in Scientific American magazine (adapted from Ramachandran and Anstis, 1986).
A variety of neural networks (computer system modeled after a human brain) are formed together as a result of the vectors and networks that are related together.
f t ( t i ) {\displaystyle f^{t}(t_{i})} is the total number of times t i {\displaystyle t_{i}} appears in the corpus.
Modern usage Japanese and Traditional Chinese Both horizontal and vertical writing are used in Japan, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan.
Reporters from CNET Networks asked Google for an explanation on January 24, 2008; Google said only that it was an "internal issue with Google Translate".
The NGD is zero for x and y that are not equal provided x and y do always occur together on the same web page.
He was a key investigator of the Newcastle Electronic Corpus of Tyneside English Project alongside his colleague Karen Corrigan.
Performance of SCFG-based MT systems has been found comparable with, or even better than, state-of-the-art phrase-based machine translation systems.
Then, it calculates the cosine distance between vectors to determine which words will be the best substitutes.
Unsupervised methods can be further divided into simple statistics, linguistics or graph-based, or ensemble methods that combine some or most of these methods.
IATE incorporated all of the existing terminology databases of the EU's translation services into one interinstitutional database containing approximately 1.4 million multilingual entries.
MindNet is the name of several automatically acquired databases of lexico-semantic relations developed by members of the Natural Language Processing Group at Microsoft Research during the 1990s.
With low-quality translation tools, an author can be required to manually correct major translation errors while avoiding the hazard of re-introducing stylistic characteristics.
The name dates back to 'Clyde Electronics' who manufactured a series of analog mixers known as Alpha, Beta, Prima and Presenter.
See also LASER Spurious emission Unintentional radiator (incidental radiator) United States energy law == References ==
Sanyo was incorporated in 1949; it made Japan's first plastic radio in 1952 and Japan's first pulsator-type washing machine in 1954.
The customer in the supermarket can scan the Electronic Product Code from the tag and connects via the internet to get more information.
Once inside a Mercedes-Benz vehicle, the SmartKey fob, unlike keyless entry fobs, is placed in the ignition slot where a starter computer verifies the rolling code.
The human-readable license plate will have either a two-character or a three-digit IATA carrier code.
In 1937, the company introduced its first product under the brand name Salora (from a combination of the words Salo and radio), and in 1945, the company changed its name to Salora Oy.
Radio frequency interference (RFI), from typically 20 kHz to an upper limit which constantly increases as technology pushes it higher.
Co-operation with Nokia In 1979, Salora and Nokia established the joint venture company Mobira Oy (from the words Mobile radio), which produced mobile phones compatible with the then new NMT network.
Products Sangean produces DAB / DAB plus (DAB+) radios, shortwave radio receivers, HD Radio tuner radios (with international tuning support), weather radios, internet radios, work site radios, shower radios, portable radios and handheld radios.
Military communications Powerful VLF transmitters are used by the military to communicate with their forces worldwide.
A new facility was constructed at Haiku in Hawaii, where two 200 KW Alexanderson alternators transferred from the mainland were installed.
SpeakEasy was a United States military project to use software-defined radio technology to make it possible to communicate with over 10 different types of military radios from a single system.
Features Publicized features include shipping verification, ePedigree, which allows for tracking pharmaceuticals through the supply chain, and information management.
sanctions In November 2020, Donald Trump issued an executive order prohibiting any American company or individual from owning shares in companies that the United States Department of Defense has listed as having links to the People's Liberation Army, which included Panda Electronics.
The entire property is designated Zone 1 except small portions (such as housing, visitor, and laboratory areas) that are designated Zone 2.
Mobile RFID (M-RFID) are services that provide information on objects equipped with an RFID tag over a telecommunication network.
For economic reasons, valves continue to be used for the final power amplifier for transmitters operating above 1.8 MHz and with powers above about 500 watts for amateur use and above about 10 kW for broadcast use.
In 1970, the Tandy Corporation, Radio Shack's former parent company, purchased Allied Radio, the consumer division, along with Allied Electronics, the industrial division.
If the person fails to pay the toll and accompanying fees at all, the person would be fined $100 plus the tolls owed; in some cases, court costs, points against the driver's license, and the suspension of the license and registration would also be levied.
The periphery of the rotor is embraced by a circular iron stator with a C-shaped cross-section, divided into narrow poles, the same number as the rotor has, carrying two sets of coils.
A reflex radio receiver, occasionally called a reflectional receiver, is a radio receiver design in which the same amplifier is used to amplify the high-frequency radio signal (RF) and low-frequency audio (sound) signal (AF).
Gallery References Sources Blaupunkt company profile Bosch BLAUPUNKT HISTORY TV 1950 Radio 1963 Radio 1938 External links Blaupunkt BlaupunktAudioIndia Blaupunktcar
Fast Pass was used for toll collection on the Massachusetts Turnpike throughout the state, and the Sumner Tunnel, Ted Williams Tunnel, and Tobin Bridge in and around Boston.
His early work in the area of nuclear physics resulted in the publication of the Moskowitz-Lombardi rule.
Eddystone-URL was used by the Physical Web project, whereas Eddystone-UID was typically used by native apps on a user's device, including Google's first party apps such as Google Maps.
One such transceiver, the Johnson Messenger, is exhibited in the Smithsonian Institution as an example of early American-made technology.
Domestic Heating and Equipment Corp., distributor, Cleveland, Ohio Headquarters A December 1945 advertisement seeking a senior engineer for the company listed an address of 106 Seventh Avenue in Manhattan, New York City.
Hertz detected the waves by observing tiny sparks in micrometer spark gaps (M) in loops of wire which functioned as resonant receiving antennas.
Inherently, any circuit above absolute zero generates some random noise that adds to the desired signals.
Radio channel emulators enable creation of mathematical models representing the physical radio signal transmission medium.
Importantly, beacons do not generally accept connections from other devices, meaning that the beacon itself cannot record what devices are in its vicinity.
A multi-hop process is intended to significantly increase the range and to improve network agility and robustness and also reducing of latency.
Specifications The sets used a four-valve superhet circuit with an audio output of 4 watts at 10% total harmonic distortion; they performed as well as many pre-war sets.
The PSC legacy was catered to in the new corporate logo of Datalogic by adding a star representing PSC.
Direct contact discharge is preferred either directly to the EUT or indirectly through vertical or horizontal coupling planes.
Antenna bridge A bridge circuit has two legs which are frequency-dependent complex-valued impedances.
Thomas Lee has pointed out that this detector did not function as a rectifier like later crystal detectors, but as a thermal detector called a bolometer.
{\displaystyle \left\{{\begin{array}{rcl}{\dot {x}}&=&Ax+bf_{1}(\theta _{1}(t))f_{2}(\theta _{2}(t)),\\{\dot {\theta }}_{2}&=&g_{v}c^{*}x+\omega _{\text{free}}\\\end{array}}\right.\quad x(0)=x_{0},\quad \theta _{2}(0)=\theta _{0}.} where θ 0 {\displaystyle \theta _{0}} is an initial phase shift.
A radio-frequency alternating current is passed through a coil of wire that acts as the transmitter, and a second coil or conducting object, magnetically coupled to the first coil, acts as the receiver.
Fees and discounts Videomaut tickets can be bought for a single or multiple passages or an unlimited number of passages for one year from the date the ticket is issued.
Besides sounding annoying, motorboating can cause clipping of the audio output waveform, and thus distortion in the output.
Tangential sensitivity Tangential sensitivity, (TSS), defines that input power which results in a video signal to noise ratio of approximately 8 dB from the detector.
After this Philips began to gradually accumulate shares in the company over the years, and assumed complete economic control in 1993.
One major departure from Judeo-Christian tradition in Testament is the separation of The One True God into two entities who in the story are represented by the God Elijah, who represents the Abrahamic One True God, and a new entity of the author's invention which he calls The One True God.
For the common use of RF induction process of heating a metal object by electromagnetic induction, see induction heating Radio-frequency induction (RF induction) is the use of a radio frequency magnetic field to transfer energy by means of electromagnetic induction in the near field.
Personal microcells, such as those for a home, are called femtocells, and generally have the range of a cordless phone, but may not be usable for an MVNO phone.
Meanwhile, the first oscillator is also mixed with harmonics from a 1 MHz crystal and the results pass through a 42 MHz filter.
Until then, resident non-Norwegian citizens are not able to get ID cards, and for such people without a driver's license many still have no way of getting and ID card with their personal identity number.
Mobile phones LG Electronics used to manufacture mobile phones from 1995 to 2021, selling to the domestic market only (as Cyon) until 2000 where it was in the shadow of Samsung Anycall.
Its shares were traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market and were listed on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange until 2012, and then again starting in April 2016.
The general trend is to do as much of the signal processing in digital form as possible, and some receivers digitize the RF signal directly, without down-conversion to an IF, so here the front end is merely an RF filter in the simple receiver path/chain.
The nanoradio exhibits field emission, in which a small voltage emits a flow of electrons; due to this, a small electromagnetic wave would produce a large flow of electrons, amplifying the signal.
The use of metallic shields may also provide additional protection against unauthorized scanning of DST tags.
( i.e., 0 - 0.75 MHz region is double sideband and the region beyond 1.25 MHz is single sideband ) Thus, the level of the demodulated signal in 0 - 0.75 MHz region is 6 dB higher than the level in the region beyond 1.25 MHz.
The responsible party for the Supplier's Declaration of Conformity must be located within the United States.
Various issues and potential issues with their use have been identified, including privacy concerns.
Discounts "Fast Lane"/"E-Z Pass MA" subscribers from any state receive (over cash or E-Z Pass customers subscribed via other states) a 25¢ discount at Allston-Brighton tolls, 50¢ discount at Sumner and Ted Williams tunnels and Tobin Memorial Bridge.
In 1957, Salora started to produce B/W televisions, and in 1966 the development of color televisions was established.
Ward-Beck Systems commonly referred to as Ward-Beck or simply WBS, is a Canadian manufacturer of broadcast audio and video equipment.
In telecommunications, a burst transmission or data burst is the broadcast of a relatively high-bandwidth transmission over a short period.
A tickler coil in the plate circuit fed energy back to the tuned grid circuit, increasing gain and selectivity.
Dealers, knowing the maker of a set and which valve manufacturer that maker used, could easily deduce which pre-war types these were and make warranty claims on the manufacturer.
The 407 ETR system, which opened in 1997, has struggled somewhat with accuracy and customer service issues, and on 2003, settled a lawsuit related to potential incorrect charges on the system.
Despite the fact that it is not a tone, DCS is also called DTCS (Digital Tone Code Squelch) by Icom, and other names by other manufacturers.
The modulation error ratio (MER) is a measure used to quantify the performance of a digital radio (or digital TV) transmitter or receiver in a communications system using digital modulation (such as QAM).
There are two predominant types of duplexer in use: notch duplexers, which block just those frequencies used for communication in the opposite direction, and bandpass duplexers, which pass only the wanted frequency band.
History Panda Group was originally a radio manufacturer established in 1936 under the Nationalist government.
Inexpensive and reliable, it was sold in millions of units and became popular in kits used by hobbyists, and was a major factor in the popularity of radio broadcasting around 1920.
The transducers usually are Inter-Digital Transducers (IDT), which have a two-toothed comb-like structure.
Products Apart from products sold under its own brand names, which include Lextronix, Sangean also produces on behalf of other companies: Many of the radios marketed by Siemens, Panasonic, Braun, Grundig, C.Crane, and Roberts have been and are being developed and produced by Sangean.
See also Feed horn Waveguide (electromagnetism) References External links VSAT specific training that demonstrates the use of the Orthomode Transducer (OMT): VSAT Installation Manual Video Presentation with explanation of the Orthomode Transducer (OMT)
The process of Bluetooth-based proximity marketing involves setting up Bluetooth "broadcasting" equipment at a particular location and then sending information which can be text, images, audio or video to Bluetooth enabled devices within range of the broadcast server.
Craig Electronics is an American brand that specializes in consumer electronics, primarily sold at pharmacies, big-box stores and through online retailers.
The third port of DC1 couples off the power reflected from P1 via A1 and PC1, then feeding it to test receiver 1 (RX TEST1).
When a radio frequency signal is applied to the device, the metal particles would cling together or "cohere", reducing the initial high resistance of the device, thereby allowing a much greater direct current to flow through it.
Typically, such circuits must operate at radio frequency and power levels, which imposes special constraints on their design.
Other researchers applied the circuit to radio: inductively coupled radio systems were patented by Oliver Lodge in February 1898, Karl Ferdinand Braun in November 1899, and John Stone Stone in February 1900.
For a PJM signal the un-modulated carrier component powers the passive tag and the low-level modulated component conveys data to the tag.
(Hyperfine Interactions, 2000) have indicated that they plan to pursue experimental europium measurements.
RKS largely and quickly superseded keyless entry, a budding technology that restrictively bound locking and unlocking functions to vehicle-mounted keypads.
In 1901, the temporary chief executive of the Kellogg Switchboard & Supply Company, Wallace De Wolf, assisted executives of rival telephone equipment manufacturer Western Electric in an attempt to take over Stromberg-Carlson.
Beginning in 1923, Hazeltine’s neutralization patents were licensed to a group of independent manufacturers, including members of the Independent Radio Manufacturers Association (IRMA).
The name and assets of Hallicrafters were traded over the following years, even though there were no products bearing the name.
References Further reading Wildi, Théodore (1981) Electrical power technology, ISBN 978-0471077640 External links Common Mode Choke Theory
The recipe cards have cooking steps to follow that are indicated by a beeping sound from the induction heater.
Power consumption depends on iBeacon configuration parameters of advertising interval and transmit power.
The detector was provided with a cathode feedback level well into the oscillation range by the 330 pF capacitor.
The system enables real-time positioning of one's own forces based on the integrated “Blue Force Tracking” capability.
Israel: IDF communication equipment is based since decades on Elbit Technology and also introducing the E-Lynx System.is operating Switzerland: Switzerland has selected Elbit E-Lynx to replace vehicular tactical radio equipment of the Swiss military up from 2020.
In 1994, Phase I was successfully demonstrated; however it involved several hundred processors and filled the back of a truck.
Products Networked series The USRP N200 and USRP N210 are high-performance USRP devices that provide higher dynamic range and higher bandwidth than the bus series.
The frequency is read from the dial on the GDO, or the frequency can be measured by finding the dip meter's signal on a well-calibrated radio receiver.
JVCKENWOOD Corporation completed an absorption of its three subsidiaries, Victor Company of Japan, Limited, Kenwood Corporation, and J&K Car Electronics Corporation.
Channels were presented in fixed sequence, with no means to skip channels unused in a particular area.
Some systems will broadcast idle data bursts only on channels used as home channels and not on those used for "overflow" conversations.
As with the coaxial resonators, high-dielectric constant materials may be used to reduce the overall size of the filter.
The triode grid was usually internally connected to the hexode grid 3, but this practice was dropped in later designs when the mixer section operated as a straight IF amplifier in AM/FM sets when operating on FM, the mixing being carried out in a dedicated FM frequency changing section.
Koo Bon-joon, who was the CEO and the current vice chairman of LG Electronics, was replaced by his nephew Koo Kwang-mo in July 2018 as CEO and vice chairman.
This makes the FCC label recognizable worldwide even to people to whom the name of the agency is not familiar.
Signal/One was a manufacturer of high performance SSB and CW HF radio communications transceivers initially based in St.
goTenna Pro In March 2017, the company announced its goTenna Pro line, for professional mobile radio communications needs, leaving the consumer market for government markets.
Substituting the formula for I ∘ {\displaystyle \scriptstyle {I_{\circ }}} into the one for P a v g {\displaystyle \scriptstyle {P_{avg}}} and solving for the maximum electric field yields | E π / 2 ( r ) | = 1 π ε 0 c r P a v g 2 R a = 9.91 r P a v g ( L = λ / 2 ) .
However, the mechanical vulnerability of the RFID-inlay is higher than the ordinary label, which has its weaknesses in its resistance to scratch.
In 2006, financial difficulties led to the collapse of the remaining company, with the bulk of the business acquired by the Swedish telecommunications company Ericsson.
When a key is inserted into the ignition lock cylinder and turned, the car's computer sends a signal to the transponder.
The ratio of the developed RF voltage to the applied RF current, coupled with knowledge of the reactive impedance from the resonant frequency, and the source impedance, allows the Q factor to be directly read by scaling the detected voltage.
For example, RFID technology allows for the use of kiosks and self-checkout terminals, with RFID keeping track of all incoming and outgoing products.
The products include mobile phones, datacards, TV sets and set top boxes, administrative software, electronic instruments, satellite and mobile communication.
Clear Channel have installed over 25,000 Adshel posters with NFC tags (and QR codes for Apple phones).
The state motor vehicle agency can then block the renewal of the vehicle's registration until the violator has paid all outstanding tolls, plus penalties and interest in some situations.
The degree to which an electrical or electronic device or devices operating on or responding to a specified frequency or frequencies is capable of functioning with other such devices.
At least one console-model broadcast superheterodyne receiver used positive feedback to improve selectivity in a 1926 design.
Common characteristics are the authority for high frequency and communications technology and the construction unit and infrastructure technology necessary for it.
See also Regenerative receiver Reflex receiver Neutrodyne WLW References Further reading McClure, Rusty; Banks, Michael A.; Stern, Dave (2007).
A remote keyless system (RKS), also known as remote keyless entry (RKE) or remote central locking, is an electronic lock that controls access to a building or vehicle by using an electronic remote control (activated by a handheld device or automatically by proximity).
For those PMR446 radios with 38 codes, the codes 0 to 38 are CTCSS Tones: SelCall Selcall (Selective Calling) transmits a burst of up to five in-band audio tones at the beginning of each transmission.
The Norwegian Public Roads Administration and the Swedish Transport Agency, together with Sund & Bælt (operator of the Great Belt Fixed Link) and Øresundsbro Konsortiet (Danish/Swedish joint venture, operator of the Øresund Bridge), established EasyGo in 2007.
Types of LO A crystal oscillator is one common type of local oscillator that provides good stability and performance at relatively low cost, but its frequency is fixed, so changing frequencies requires changing the crystal.
LG Electronics introduced its first Internet TV in 2007, originally branded as "Net Cast Entertainment Access" devices.
In many receivers, the function of local oscillator and mixer is combined in one stage called a "converter" - this reduces the space, cost, and power consumption by combining both functions into one active device.
Sixteen toggle switches allowed the user to select which frequencies were of interest at any given time.
See also List of electronics companies List of companies of Taiwan Sources External links Sangean Official Website Sangean Facebook Sangean Instagram Sangean Youtube Sangean Europe Sangean Australia
Transmitter N-OFDM signals An N-OFDM carrier signal is the sum of a number of not-orthogonal subcarriers, with baseband data on each subcarrier being independently modulated commonly using some type of quadrature amplitude modulation (QAM) or phase-shift keying (PSK).
Although prized for the performance and advanced engineering, Signal/One's products did not sell as well as hoped, and the company gradually fell on hard times.
These still complete calls to or from pre-authorized users such as prison staff, while not violating laws against jamming.
Few of the Norwegian AutoPass providers were EETS providers, and most AutoPASS consequently could not be used at Storebælt.
The director element, on the other hand, being shorter than 1⁄2λ, has a capacitive reactance with the voltage phase lagging that of the current.
From 1968 to 1988 it was one of three fully American-owned electronics firms and manufacturers (along with RCA and GE).
{\displaystyle Q=2\pi \times {\frac {\mbox{Peak Energy Stored}}{\mbox{Energy dissipated per cycle}}}.\,} This expression applies to an RF and microwave filter, bandpass LC filter, or any resonator.
The magnitude of the reflection coefficient can be calculated from the VSWR measurement by, | ρ | = V S W R − 1 V S W R + 1 {\displaystyle |\rho |={\frac {\mathrm {VSWR} -1}{\mathrm {VSWR} +1}}} where VSWR is the standing wave ratio expressed as a voltage ratio (not in decibels).
The American Radio Relay League, Inc., 2012, ISBN 978-0-87259-632-0 Software Defined Radio using MATLAB & Simulink and the RTL-SDR, R Stewart, K Barlee, D Atkinson, L Crockett, Strathclyde Academic Media, September 2015.
For travel within the Nordic countries no identity documentation is legally required for Nordic citizens due to the Nordic Passport Union.
All existing systems implemented in the Nordic countries by 2007 (AutoPASS and BroBizz) are included, and no revision of the laws in the countries was required.
When within a few yards of the car, pressing a button on the remote can lock or unlock the doors, and may perform other functions.
Some stores use RFID-tagged items to trigger systems that provide customers with more information or suggestions, such as fitting rooms at Chanel and the "Color Bar" at Kendra Scott stores.
The percentage of root of squared summations of these deviations gives a total %LFSD value, which is a near equivalent of the %THD value in AC systems.
Weak signal strength can also be caused by destructive interference of the signals from local towers in urban areas, or by the construction materials used in some buildings causing significant attenuation of signal strength.
Klein Heidelberg worked by sensing Chain Home (CH) transmission pulses directly with a small auxiliary antenna, close to the main antenna, whose receiver was tuned to a particular CH station whose exact location, bearing and range was known.
In this type of receiver, the RF front end is defined as everything from the antenna to the analog-to-digital converter (ADC), which digitizes the signal.
In 1997 Clyde Broadcast Products Limited was formed as a UK-based radio studio equipment manufacturer.
With the oil crises of the 1970s and 1980s Pulse Duration and Pulse Step Modulation schemes for AM transmitters took hold at power levels at or beyond 50 kw.
In 2001, the company was re-established as a manufacturer of low-cost consumer electronics, including MP3 players, netbooks, and speakers.
See also Bandpass filter – category that includes roofing filters Preselector – an external device that serves a similar function == References ==
For the special case where the three frequencies are close to degenerate, then optical separation of the difference frequency can be technically challenging.
The recorded first code is sent to the vehicle only when the owner makes the second attempt, while the recorded second code is retained for future use.
JVCKenwood focuses on car and home electronics, wireless systems for the worldwide consumer electronics market, professional broadcast, CCTV and digital and analogue two-way radio equipment and systems.
Modern analyzers directly display resistance and reactance, with the calculations done internally by a microprocessor.
Adoption and usage Google Pay is an application for devices running Google's Android OS, which allows users to make purchases using NFC, which initially required a physical secure element but this was replaced by host card emulation which was introduced in Android 4.4 (KitKat).
Television Manufacturing, and in some advertisements as UST, was an American television manufacturing and distribution company known for its early large-screen television sets, intended for use in bars and other public spaces.
In a test environment, radio channel emulators replace the real-world radio channel between a radio transmitter and a receiver by providing a faded representation of a transmitted signal to the receiver inputs.
In October 2003, the Auto-ID Center was replaced by the newly founded research network, the Auto-ID Labs and EPCGlobal, an organization charged with managing the new EPC Network.
History SABA began as a clock-maker in Triberg (Black Forest), founded in 1835 by Joseph Benedikt Schwer.
For example, in cable television (which uses FDM), many carrier signals, each modulated with a different television channel, are transported through a single cable to customers.
See also Television interference (ghosting) Television interference (Co-channel reception) EMC problem (excessive field strength) == References ==
Cryptanalysis KeeLoq was first cryptanalyzed by Andrey Bogdanov using sliding techniques and efficient linear approximations.
When the two signals are mixed, a beat frequency equal to the difference between the two frequencies is created.
For several years the company produced more radio receivers than any other manufacturer, although competitors such as Atwater Kent were generally considered more profitable because they sold higher-priced sets.
Moreover, in 2011, he was appointed to MIT's Production in an Innovation Economy Commission, contributing to the publication of two books.
They are part of London-based RS Group, plc (formerly Electrocomponents, plc), an FTSE 100 global leader in the omnichannel distribution of products and services for industrial equipment and operations.
Slotted lines have now largely been superseded, but are still found where capital costs are an issue.
Clipped tag development The concept of the clipped tag was first introduced in a paper authored by IBM researchers Paul Moskowitz and Guenter Karjoth in 2005, RFID Journal, November 7, 2005.
D&H Distributing is a privately held North American technology distributor to the information technology (IT) and consumer electronics supply channels, founded in 1918 in Williamsport, Pennsylvania.
Roofing filters are usually crystal or ceramic filter types, with a passband for general purpose shortwave radio reception of about 6–20 kHz (for AM–NFM).
The receiver's bandwidth is not determined by the roofing filter passband, but instead by a follow-on crystal filter, mechanical filter, or DSP filter, all of which allow a much tighter filtering curve than a typical roofing filter.
The amplified audio signal from the plate passes easily through the low inductance RF primary winding L3 and is applied to the earphones T.
High-powered transmissions, such as those used in broadcasting, are measured in dB-millivolts per metre (dBmV/m).
RCA's first transmitters using this modulation system were at the 50,000 watt level but later lower power transmitters such as 10 kw and 5 kw were made.
For convenience, the spread sheet columns, show the frequency in sub-bands, with bandwidths sufficiently narrow to ensure that any gain ripple is sufficiently characterized.
With a duplexer the high- and low-frequency signals are traveling in opposite directions at the shared port of the duplexer.
The company transitioned to development and manufacturing of land-mobile radio products such as the Logic Trunked Radio trunking format.
(now Raytheon) coined the term "software radio" to refer to a digital baseband receiver, as published in their E-Team company newsletter.
Predistortion can be implemented in an analog as well as digital manner known as digital pre-distortion.
Motors GoldStar tractors began in 1975, as a division of Hyundai, in cooperation with Yanmar of Japan.
Tennelec, still located in Oak Ridge, TN, is now a division of Canberra Industries, which is owned by Areva.
The interior of the cell acts as a waveguide and converts electric signals into homogeneous electromagnetic fields with approximately transverse mode distribution, similar to free space.
Alternatively, it may be used if the model AN/TRC-100 underwent simultaneous modifications that improved the model and affected the power input.
In the 1980s, the term "data burst" (and "info burst") was used for a technique used by some United Kingdom and South African TV programmes to transmit large amounts of primarily textual information.
Access credentials are stored on the smartcard and organized through the use of markers, represented in XML.
History In August 2006, it was reported that five Ulster councils had installed chips in household wheelie bins, and that three more local councils were about to trial the technology.
had reached insolvency and appointed provisional liquidators, due to poor sales by severe low price competition worldwide.
However, none of these documents state the holder's citizenship and – whilst valid as travel documentation in the Nordic Union – are not recognised as official immigration documents by most other authorities in the EU.
Some commonly available analog multiplier integrated circuits are the type MPY634 by Texas Instruments, AD534, AD632 and AD734 by Analog Devices, HA-2556 from Intersil, and others.
Communication rate, and product breadth, of touch memory goes well beyond the simple memory products typically available with RFID.
He described its application to tuned radio-frequency amplification and complete receiver circuits in a 1923 paper.
The following images show a Portenseigne & Hirschmann Ku band configuration, that highlights the horizontal the vertical, and circular polarized wave-guide ports that join to the feed-horn, the LNB or BUC elements of an outdoor unit.
The company also released its software development kit, enabling developers to create new applications using goTenna hardware.
Original analog video only has one channel per transponder, with subcarriers for audio and automatic transmission identification service (ATIS).
Grid dip oscillator (GDO), also called grid dip meter, gate dip meter, dip meter, or just dipper, is a type of electronic instrument that measures the resonant frequency of nearby unconnected radio frequency tuned circuits.
Herman Schwer, the founder's grandson, started the manufacturing of headphones, radio parts, and a variety of products from radio components to receivers.
The bandwidth of a Yagi antenna, the frequency range over which it maintains its gain and feedpoint impedance, is narrow, just a few percent of the center frequency, decreasing for models with higher gain, making it ideal for fixed-frequency applications.
Burgos, "Alternate Filter Structures for Circulating Current and Conducted Noise Mitigation," in IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics, vol.
The name was changed to LG Precision with the merger, with many of the same products and model numbers being produced but with new branding.
Currently, the only manufacturer of AM transmitters that uses phase modulation to achieve AM is SRK Electronics.
The Apache 2.0-licensed, cross-platform, and versioned profile contained several frame types, including Eddystone-UID, Eddystone-URL, and Eddystone-TLM.
The company was moved to Taiwan during the Chinese Civil War and the remaining plant was re-established as Nanjing Wireless Electronics Plant and in 1995 renamed Panda Electronics Group.
These stationized dials also include KSL 1160 in Salt Lake City, KOMO 1000 in Seattle, KKMO 1360 in Tacoma, KIT in Yakima, and KOA 850 in Denver.
There are many designs for loudspeaker simulators, which emphasize different characteristics of the actual speaker, such as the voice coil's inductance, mechanical suspension compliance, and cone mass.
It allows the user to carry out analysis, alignment and system testing without incurring satellite airtime costs and the risk of interfering with other satellite users.
This lack of communications interoperability can be directly linked to casualties in several conflicts.
Other cast regulars Chris Elliott and Sarah Levy were given the roles of Roland Schitt and Twyla Sands, respectively, without auditioning.
Swaranjit Singh Bajaj, the vice-president of SMCW, blamed the Sikh humorists such as Navjot Singh Sidhu and Khushwant Singh for perpetuating the stereotypical image of Sikhs.
Australian reaction At the time of its release, despite its less-than-respectful treatment of Aboriginal people, Australian record-buyers apparently had no problem with the original "black in the face" version.
In 2000, Harmony Korine directed the short film Korine Tap for Stop for a Minute, a series of short films commissioned by Dazed & Confused magazine and FilmFour Lab.
He reconnects with his high school crush, and is hired to teach an actor, Danny Turner, how to play guitar for a film role.
Actor/writer Chris Lilley has produced a series of award-winning "mockumentary" style television series about ordinary Australian characters since 2005.
When Warady contacted Hanania and identified himself as an Israeli comedian, Hanania challenged Warady to appear on the same comedy stage with a Palestinian comedian to challenge the animosity enveloping both their peoples.
The film was directed by James Bobin and written by Nicholas Stoller and Matthew Robinson, and stars Isabela Moner, Eugenio Derbez, Michael Peña and Eva Longoria, with Danny Trejo as the voice of Boots.
The primary focus of the material is on Cho's ascension into stardom and her struggles with weight, drug addiction and sexual promiscuity.
Built in 1856 at the Mason Machine Works in Taunton, Massachusetts, it was later renamed The William Mason in honor of its manufacturer.
Van Peebles' only studio film, Watermelon Man was a financial success, but Van Peebles did not accept Columbia Pictures' three-picture contract, instead developing the independent film Sweet Sweetback's Baadasssss Song.
The Lion Tamer is a 1934 animated short film produced by the Van Beuren Studios and directed by Vernon Stallings and starring Charles J.
She toured off and on and in Arizona, a promoter billed her as "Saucy Sylvia" on the marquee, giving Sylvia her first new name.
To Norway, Home of Giants (Norwegian: For Norge, Kiæmpers Fødeland) was the Norwegian contribution to the 1979 Rose d'Or in Montreux, where it won two prizes.
He alienates those close to him with tabloid-style exposé stories, such as a local barber's illegal numbers racket and a restaurant's unhealthy cooking style.
Instead, she argues that the short is a metaphor for the replacement of one generation of African American performers and stereotypes for a new one as the result of African Americans moving to urban areas.
The song is based on my experience—what I know about Chinese food." Music video The music video for "Chinese Food" was released on October 14, 2013.
The film was released in the United States on April 22, 2005, and was a critical and commercial bomb.
After months of isolation (and fighting off "nasty bushwackin' animals"), the local witch doctor takes pity on the lad and tells him, "If you want your boomerang to come back/Well, first you've got to throw it!" He does, and proceeds to bring down an aeroplane, which crashes with a loud boom.
Developing from many sources including shows in saloons, minstrelsy, British pantomimes, and other popular entertainments, vaudeville became one of the most popular types of entertainment in America.
Reception On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 91% of 11 critics' reviews are positive.
Six years later, Naveen is still single, working as a doctor with his much more outgoing coworker Paul.
They relied heavily on mocking the minority or the foreign, including race, class, and social standing.
"Esquire" Joe Calloway is an amalgam of another Black Baron, Willie Mays (in personality, talent, and fielding position) and Jackie Robinson (as being signed by a white team at the film's end).
He has taught at several North American universities, served as executive director of the Ukrainian Cultural and Educational Centre, Winnipeg (1976–78), and for several years an adjunct professor at the Centre for Ukrainian Canadian Studies, University of Manitoba.
Crazylegs Crane first appeared in "Go for Croack" (1969), and also spun off to his own series for television in 1978 on ABC.
Richard Pryor: Live in Concert is a 1979 American stand-up comedy concert film starring and written by Richard Pryor, and directed by Jeff Margolis.
Wong as "so edgy" that he could not "imagine seeing it on TV." Home video In January 2004, it was reported that Mr.
A Reckless Rover is an American 1918 short comedy film produced by Ebony Film Corporation and starring Sam Robinson.
He won "Best Actor Award" for the role at the London Greek Film Festival, and was nominated for "Best Actor" at the 14th Canadian Comedy Awards.
In subsequent episodes, Richman explains that Baldwin is a good friend of hers and is recuperating in Boca Raton, Florida, because "he developed shpilkis in his ganektagazoink".
The fully restored version is available on Walt Disney Treasures: The Chronological Donald, Volume Four.
Track listing Australian single "Pretty Fly for a Rabbi" – 3:02 "Amish Paradise" – 3:20 Music video A "music video" for the song was assembled for the single's release in Australia.
Additionally, both the camera crew and HBO's advertising department had trouble understanding Resnick's vision, and the result was an unusual show that some critics described as being nasty and mean-spirited, for which HBO did not know how to attract the right audience.
So she lifted her skirt and said, 'No touching.'" For the director of photography, Brooks hired veteran Western cinematographer Joseph Biroc (Run of the Arrow, Forty Guns, Cahill U.S.
Some ballplayers were played by actual former athletes, including former members of the Indianapolis Clowns, who performed various stunts shown in the film.
A black preacher with caricatured enormous lips greets his parishioners as he sings the song for which the short is named.
Joy Ride had its world premiere at SXSW on March 17, 2023, and was released in the United States on July 7, 2023, by Lionsgate Films.
The music for Watermelon Man, written and performed by Van Peebles, was released on a soundtrack album, which spawned the single "Love, That's America".
Abu Aita was identified in the film as a member of al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades, a Palestinian terrorist organization responsible for numerous suicide bombings.
Go for Broke is a 2002 urban comedy film, written by Jean-Claude La Marre, who also directed and co-produced the film, which stars Pras, Michael A.
you might be a redneck." "If you have no cars that are mobile and 14 cars that aren't, then you might be a redneck." See also Hillbilly Three Wolf Moon Blonde joke == References ==
In contrast, Roger Ebert writing in the Chicago Sun-Times, gave this film two stars, calling it "an uninspired recycling of the Tootsie formula.
It aired on Cartoon Network's programming block Adult Swim in 2003, and then it aired on Fox in 2004.
Disguise Blackface and disguise, often in a pagan themed context have their own history which intersects with morris tradition.
Geek Worldwide reported that the third installment in the Bad Boys franchise would film from November 2018 to March 2019 in Miami and Atlanta, with the release date scheduled for January 17, 2020.
However, he found it a challenge to interview frequently-interviewed celebrities and draw them out of set routines.
Class relations The film portrays the ways in which queer individuals assess one another, drawing from their own experiences of discrimination and marginalization to perpetuate a hierarchical class system seen in a straight community as way to elevate their own social status within the community.
Yash Raj Films entered into a tie-in arrangement with exhibitors that made it compulsory for them to show an untitled Yash Chopra film on Diwali and keep it in cinemas for at least two weeks thereafter.
Home media "Cartmanland," along with the thirteen other episodes from South Park: the Complete Fifth Season, was released on a three-disc DVD set on February 22, 2005.
The North Indian audiences in particular and those residing abroad will be simply delighted by this chatpata, masaledaar fare." Gayatri Sankar of Zee News gave it 3.5 out of 5 stars while commenting "Certain portions are a bit of a drag, but the comic sequences will make up for the monotony.
All their performances are filled with sparkling jokes, satire and humor about Middle East conflict that many believe is not a laughing matter.
The War at Home is an American sitcom created by Rob Lotterstein that ran from September 11, 2005, to April 22, 2007, on Fox.
Co-creator and star Dan Levy also addressed the alleged censorship on social media calling it "highly disturbing" and "dangerous".
After several rounds of auditions, one lady was chosen as the life model for Rasputia and a foam latex suit was created based on her measurements.
It is the first in a trilogy following Nakamura's character, followed by Daylight Savings (2012) and I Will Make You Mine (2020).
Cedar Cloud, chairman of Mission's board of trustees, warns college president Harold McPherson that Dap's divestment protests may scare off the school's wealthy donors.
In frustration, he hangs up at the end of the record and decides to arrange for the repairs himself.
The only problem is that "IT" is controlled through a quite painful and unappealing method: using four "flexi-grip handles" that somewhat resemble erect penises; two held in the hands, one in the mouth, and a fourth handle which is inserted into the anus.
They celebrate their victory by stealing a pirate ship and crashing it into a recreation of the RMS Titanic, taking the crew and passengers hostage, including Dorothea and Vivian.
Comedy album A comedy album was also released for Kevin Hart: What Now?, and was nominated for Best Comedy Album at the 2018 Grammy Awards.
Plot New York City film school graduate Leta Evans (De Sousa) has just become the assistant to exotic music video director Bleau Kelly (Downtown Julie Brown).
King Lolo arrives, and as he prepares to kill the trio, he slams the door behind him, which causes a piece of the ceiling to fall on his head and knock him out.
The movie is about the women’s liberation movement and the civil rights movement going hand in hand.
After spending a day at work, and realizing just how vital the barbershop is to the surrounding community, Calvin rethinks his decision and tries to get the shop back - only to find out Wallace wants double the $20,000 he paid Calvin to return it, and before 7 pm that day.
It was re-released on THX-certified VHS and Laserdisc on September 15, 1998, as part of the Walt Disney Masterpiece Collection video series.
He concluded that it did not have enough material "to sustain its 91 minutes" but did have enough "low-grade laughs" for its target audience.
We all thought it was a hell of a lot more funny when it was the Tijuana Toads, but at the time we had to do it in order to bring the thing on television".
Ralston said he then created the Civil War characters, the format, the story outline and nine drafts of the script that were the basis for the television series.
Then in April 2020, ViacomCBS (now known as Paramount Skydance) bought a 49% stake in Miramax, which gave them the rights to the Miramax library and the pre-October 2005 Dimension library.
Village of Idiots is a Canadian short animated comedy based on the classic humorous Jewish folk tales about the Wise Men of Chełm, directed and animated by Eugene Fedorenko and Rose Newlove, written by John Lazarus, and produced by the National Film Board of Canada (NFB).
In the meanwhile, Mo falls in love with Janvi Valia (Serena Varghese), a Punjabi girl, but things don't go as planned when Mo invites Janvi to a party.
Dexter also betrays his best friend and narrator Baker Moon (Nathaniel 'Afrika' Hall) by revealing a local criminal's plan to commit grand theft auto, a plan Baker secretly confided to Dexter.
Club criticized the film for being "stitched together with regional stereotypes and gags lifted from other movies".
The film had a limited release in theaters on July 12, 2019, and was panned by critics, and has a 0% rating on Rotten Tomatoes.
Beagle, said he took the name from the Yiddish term, which he described as "somebody out of his depth, the boy sent to do a man's job, someone who has expanded to the limits of his incapacity".
The name of the short comes from the colloquial adjective "sunday-go-to-meeting", describing something appropriate for church or otherwise presentable.
Cast Tatanka Means - Buddy Begay / Frybread Roadman (Navajo contestant) Greg Ferenandez - Joel Thomas (Reporter) Mary Kim Titla - Tracey Lightning (Reporter) Teresa M.
It's more of a charming show than a laughfest, but it does the job." In a retrospective review in The A.V.
In other cases the reactions were more severe, as both Lenny Bruce and George Carlin were arrested on obscenity charges.
In other media A 1980s cover band based in Lexington, Kentucky calls itself Long Duk Dong after the character.
When First Sunday closed on February 24, 2008, the film has grossed $37,931,869 from the North American box office and $844,216 in the international box office adding to $38,776,085 worldwide.
Frito-Lay filed a trademark for Flamin' Hot in June 1990 and started testing spicy Lay's, Cheetos, Fritos and Bakenets in Chicago, Detroit and Houston beginning in August 1990, and Roger Enrico joined Frito-Lay at the start of 1991.
Ordway, in the double capacity of 'citizens' and 'darkies' give nightly concerts which are well attended." "The whole building was changed in appearance, its interior having been remodeled for the purpose of accommodating a company of ...
Taran Killam as Stewart, the school's strict principal who was the school nerd that Teddy bullied when he was there.
Plot Harishkumar Satishkumar Patel (Sunil Malhotra) is a geeky student from a small village in Gujarat, India who is attending the University of Houston, while living with his uncle (his father's best friend).
It is sung on the show boat stage by Magnolia, in place of the orchestral Olio Dance performed by Frank in the original play.
Later, a weeping Nekhama Krik reminds her husband that the Jewish elders are about to bar him from the synagogue.
See also African American cinema References External links Two Knights of Vaudeville at IMDb Two Knights of Vaudeville on YouTube
Its success turned Roth into a major celebrity, sparking a storm of controversy over its explicit and candid treatment of sexuality, including detailed depictions of masturbation using various props.
Tomris Laffly of RogerEbert.com gave Me Time a moderately favorable review, praising the characters but criticizing the screenplay and special effects.
In a review of the performance Rip Empson of the Huffington Post says, "Sykes shows that her swagger hasn't been slowed by maturity or motherhood." Plot Sykes opens her stand-up routine by discussing the United States' first black president, Barack Obama.
Cast Reception Box office The film opened at #1 with a weekend gross of $19,208,806 from 2,735 theaters for a per venue average of $7,023.
History of recordings The first recording of the monologue was made in London by Joe Hayman for Regal Records in 1913, and it was subsequently issued in the U.S.
After consulting a storybook, they find that they must go out for a walk to let the instruments cool off.
Benjamin and Adam, who have a contentious relationship, trade insults, and as payback for his belittling behavior, Adam spikes Benjamin's drink with laxatives from his medicine collection.
Seeing that Lydia and her parents are missing, she stops, then confesses everything to the audience.
It includes derogatory racial stereotypes and a storyline about a woman seeking money and a man lightening his skin color to try and make himself more appealing.
The women he sleeps with are all a secret from Lisa, who comes over to his house for a bit to see him, before heading off for work.
Release Critical reception The review aggregator at Rotten Tomatoes gives the film an approval rating of 13% based on 72 reviews, with an average rating of 3.3/10.
Once through the booth, the raiders attack the fake town and its population of dummies, which have been booby trapped with dynamite.
On August 17, the film crossed the $100 million mark domestically, becoming the first comedy of 2017 to do so.
References External links Tokio Jokio at IMDb Tokio Jokio on The Internet Archive Tokio Jokio on YouTube
Reception On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, 59% of 17 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 5.7/10.
See also Allport's Scale An Englishman, an Irishman and a Scotsman Dialect comedy Ethnic stereotype Joking relationship Town of fools Footnotes References Billig, Michael (2001-05-01).
Does he give me anything?" This joke employs the technique of absurdity since it makes the Schnorrer assert that the Baron gives him nothing at the very moment at which he is preparing to beg him for a gift.
Nick offers T-Paul a job as an electrician and a security expert to work on a new security system for his company, which he happily accepts.
Cast Production The Guru was filmed in 2001, mostly on location in New York City, though a few scenes were filmed in Delhi.
Haddish added "We might decide not to even make it Girls Trip, maybe we'll do a different story just in case no one wants to make Girls Trip 2".
Vivian visits the bodega to look for Miguel; Tony realizes that she too is a vampire and is killed by her.
78 External links Portnoy's Complaint #52 on the Modern Library's 100 Best Novels of the 20th Century Portnoy's Complaint at IMDb
(clicks tongue twice) Later appearances Pepé appeared with several other Looney Tunes characters in Filmation's 1972 made-for-TV special Daffy Duck and Porky Pig Meet the Groovie Goolies.
It stars Anthony Anderson, Jay Mohr, Kellita Smith, Regina Hall, Donald Faison, Nicole Ari Parker, Charlie Murphy, Loretta Devine, Brooke D'Orsay, and Leila Arcieri.
A scene in his 2014 stand-up comedy film The Fluffy Movie depicts a young Iglesias renting the rated-R film despite being underage.
Davies maintains that ethnic jokes reinforce ethnic stereotypes and sometimes lead to calls for violence.
With its humorous cultural lens, this movie should be a career-changing moment for Jobrani." Awards References External links Official website Jimmy Vestvood: Amerikan Hero at IMDb Jimmy Vestvood: Amerikan Hero on Facebook Jimmy Vestvood: Amerikan Hero on Instagram
Popular culture A restaurant dubbed under the name Pancho i Toro - Pizza & Grill Sesvete is located in Sesvete, Croatia.
She mentioned that Sinqua Walls and Jack Harlow performed adequately in the roles originally played by Wesley Snipes and Woody Harrelson.
In April 2019 Latifah said that a sequel was "definitely happening." In March 2020, Haddish confirmed Tracy Oliver had a treatment "ready to go", and would begin working on the script.
The film premiered at South by Southwest on March 12, 2024, and was released in the US on April 4, 2025, by Blue Harbor Entertainment.
1961 1962 1963–1967: Chuck Jones/Sib Tower cartoons The following 34 cartoons were produced by Chuck Jones in Hollywood, Los Angeles.
She arrives just in time to stop the ceremony, but the congregants, angry that Lois is apparently insulting their religion, attack the Griffins.
See also Aroma of Tacoma (referenced in the song) References External links "Jewish Princess" at donlope.net
The love theme song called "First Time on a Ferris Wheel" was also composed by Segal with lyrics by Harriet Schock and performed by Smokey Robinson and Syreeta.
See also List of English words of Yiddish origin Yiddish words used in English Yinglish == References ==
Garrison comes up with a "more pleasant" alternative to airline travel, known as "IT." Plot Kyle's cousin, Kyle Schwartz from Connecticut, comes to live in South Park due to his mother's failing health back at home.
The film stars Keke Palmer and SZA (in her film debut) as two friends who must scramble to find rent money after one of their boyfriends blows through it.
While Dexter, Ed, and Mia infiltrate the building, the other employees create a distraction, but their ruse is discovered.
They provide a setting for the discussion of political, social, and moral issues as well as the exchange of information." Charlie L.
Some examples of works featuring blackface minstrelsy published by the TSDC while Denison was alive include Charles Townsend's Negro Minstrels with End Men's Jokes , Gags , Speeches , Etc.
Examples "When Boudreaux got home yesterday, Clotile ran out to him saying, "The car's got water in the carburetor!", "How you know that, you?", "Cause it's parked in the Bayou!"" "Boudreaux was walking down the wharf and he met up with Thibodeaux.
Taz proceeds to get involved with the neighborhood mosque under the guise that he is trying to turn his life around.
Lewis, in Mere Christianity See also Colemanballs – Verbal gaffes Comparative illusion – Sentences that appear to make sense but actually do not Oxymoron – Figure of speech Obadiah Bull – Possible Irish lawyer Footnotes Other references Grierson, Philip (1938).
It stars Ryan Kaji, Emma Kaji, Kate Kaji, Shion Kaji, and Loann Kaji as the titular YouTube channel family alongside Evangeline Lomelino and Dan Rhodes.
At the end of the year on Senior Ditch Day, Paris asks Alvin to hang out as real friends, but a newly-egotistical Alvin insults her.
The initial method of distribution from Tim Hitchner has not been documented, although its wider distribution has been described as viral.
The version appearing on the Monty Python Live (Mostly) stage show includes an accompaniment of dancers in Chinese costumes, and has additional lyrics, for example referring to the Chinese as "still a little communese".
See also List of films about angels References External links The Kid with the Broken Halo at IMDb The Kid with the Broken Halo at Rotten Tomatoes
A group of angry Sikhs stormed the PNC office, and demanded that the scene be deleted from the film.
Reception Critical response Film critic Vincent Canby of The New York Times was unimpressed with the film, writing: 'Balloons, fans, feathers—they're all out of style,' says the racially aware exotic dancer preparing her act for Harlem's Apollo Theater.
Humphries says his creations "encourage people to look at Australia critically and with affection and humour".
A recurring gag throughout the film involves Jackson seeing himself on TV with notably different facial features, i.e.
The Joys of Yiddish lexicon stresses the meagerness of "shmendrik" compared to other Jewish schm-words for luckless persons: "A shmendrik is a small, short, weak, thin, a young nebekh".
It went on to debut to $28 million, finishing first domestically (although Smallfoot earned more worldwide) and marking the best opening weekend for a comedy in 2018.
"Chinpokomon" is the eleventh-aired and the tenth-produced episode of the third season of the American animated television series South Park.
Cartman does not relent in his efforts, taking Butters with him to hunt the Jewpacabra, and showing video tape of their efforts to the executives of Sooper Foods, in an attempt to convince them to cancel their Easter egg hunt and let him be the only one allowed to do the Easter egg hunt.
She uses this discussion to bring up some of the stereotypes facing African-American people in the US.
Plot In this modern remix of the iconic film, seemingly opposite street hoopers, Jeremy, an injury prone former star, and Kamal, a has-been prodigy, team up to take one final shot at living out their dreams.
Why don't we do it with a white guy and a black dude?" John Cho mentioned the writers wanted to avoid whitewashing the main leads, so they wrote ethnic-specific scenes in the script.
Old Jews Telling Jokes is a web series launched in 2009 created and directed by Sam Hoffman and produced by Eric Spiegelman and Tim Williams for Jetpack Media, Inc.
The Bingo Long Traveling All-Stars & Motor Kings is a 1976 American sports comedy film about a team of enterprising ex-Negro league baseball players in the era of racial segregation.
Production companies involved with the film are Levantine Films, Baldoni's Wayfarer Studios, Kaling's Kaling International, and Bekerman's Scythia Films.
The resulting chaos this causes prompts the Goths to abandon their plans of invasion and creates a civil war amongst them.
After his first marriage ended, Tsarouchas' business dissolved and he was left with only $900 to his name.
He penned several temperance works that were widely distributed in America, among them The Sparkling Cup (1877), Hard Cider: A Temperance Sketch (1880), and Only Cold Tea (1895).
Rudolf Ising was the producer of Puss Gets the Boot; subsequent cartoons were produced by Fred Quimby through 1955.
Radio A weekly NBC radio series, Abie's Irish Rose, replaced Knickerbocker Playhouse and ran from January 24, 1942, through September 2, 1944.
After a series of disastrous jobs (the disasters often being of his own making), George eventually secures a steady career as an assistant to the traveling secretary for the New York Yankees -- for a while.
Around the same time, Lawrence signed a two-picture, $20 million-per-film deal with Columbia Pictures, which included plans for a sequel.
White Men Can't Jump is a 2023 American sports comedy film directed by Calmatic, and written by Kenya Barris and Doug Hall from a story they co-wrote with Ron Shelton.
player George Woo as Bar patron Elsa Cruz Pearson as Eliza Helen Chew as Linda Tam Jarrett Chew as Baby Tam Critical reception Dim Sum: A Little Bit of Heart was met with critical acclaim.
His style has been described as "a dressed-down, more digestible version of Don Rickles with multiple personality disorder".
Plot When soldier Jack Spade learns that his brother Junebug overdosed on gold chains and died, he returns to Any Ghetto, U.S.A, where he is met by his mother and sister Cheryl.
Various television programs such as Hey Hey It's Saturday and Rove Live have provided additional exposure to stand-up comics.
References External links Dim Sum: A Little Bit of Heart at IMDb http://caamfest.com/2014// http://www.nytimes.com/movie/review?res=9900EFD81138F93AA3575BC0A963948260
Sykes goes on to talk about some of the issues facing the President such as reforming health-care, national resistance to change, revamping education, immigration and racial injustice.
The waiter, in turn, pulls out his own gun, and a commotion ensues in which nobody gets hurt and everything ends happily.
(In reality, Riley thinks well of Willoughby, despite his occasional antics, and keeps persuading him to continue reenlisting.) Over the next 12 years, Willoughby gets promoted and demoted repeatedly, but eventually rises to the rank of chief petty officer.
In the film, Bert Williams, himself a black person, appears in blackface; MOMA curator Ron Magliozzi identified it as a concession to white audiences whose expectations were satisfied by the lead performer appearing in blackface.
Plot Waking to find that his landlady has called in a policeman to collect his overdue rent, the slothful but cunning Rastus Jones (Sam Robinson) slips out the window and hides out in a Chinese laundry, where he proceeds to cause chaos.
The site's critics consensus reads, "Doctor Dolittle finds some mirth in the novelty of wisecracking critters, but this family feature's treacly tone is made queasy by a reliance on scatological gags that undercut the intended warmth".
The film's Richard Perry-produced title theme sung by Dwight David was nominated for the Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Original Song at the 6th Golden Raspberry Awards, as was Vanity's song "7th Heaven".
The stage name of the group (officially Israeli–Palestinian Comedy Tour) changes depending on the place the show is given.
Music Songs "Booty Juice": The song's video spoofs the prototypical hip hop "pool scene" found in many videos, with N.W.H.
Home media "The Entity," along with the thirteen other episodes from South Park: the Complete Fifth Season, was released on a three-disc DVD set in the United States on February 22, 2005.
While Shirin has been engaged for years to a successful Iranian plastic surgeon in Beverly Hills, she lives with her overbearing mother and empathetic father.
When he sees all of the women there, including Jenny and Katrina, he understands that he has been set up by them.
Reception The Jewish Daily Forward interviewed some of the audience members and found that many understood that the song was a joke and that Borat was a comedian in disguise.
Voice actress Mary Kay Bergman also contributes with the "For a rabbi!" line near the middle of the song.
The soundtrack reached number 64 on the Top R&B Albums chart, and its lone single, "Strictly Business" by LL Cool J, did not chart.
Nora admits longstanding feelings for Glen, and Danielle reveals to Dizzy that she was also not popular while growing up and ditched her old friends once she gained popularity later on due to desperately wanting to fit in.
Music On July 15, 2024, it was announced that Republic Records would release a soundtrack album for the film on August 16, 2024.
It is notable for featuring many prominent South Asian American actors and features an a cappella version by Penn Masala of Nazia Hassan's classic "Aap Jaisa Koi", originally from the Indian film Qurbani.
External links Detail of 1861 map of Boston showing location of Ordway Hall, via Boston Public Library's Atlascope Boston tool.
Plot Malcolm King is a wealthy, selfish, obnoxious businessman who is about to divorce his wife Renee.
The series follows six young Modern Orthodox Jewish singles living in New York City as they navigate the shidduch system and complicated feelings for each other.
Old Corn Meal was known for walking through New Orleans singing and dancing while he led his horse and cart and sold corn meal.
Jones responded that this was a reason to avoid the racist films, that the audience might think them to be based on fact.
Lydia's mother Gabi, unaware Stacy and Lydia are fighting, arrives at the Friedman's, and asks Bree for the entrance video for Lydia's bat mitzvah.
In addition to Koy, the film stars Tia Carrere, Brandon Wardell, Eugene Cordero, Asif Ali, Lydia Gaston, Jimmy O.
never again shall we listen to his double toned voice — never again shall his corn meal melodies, now grumbled in a bass — now squeaked in a treble, vibrate on the ear.
Audrey is an overachiever who works as a lawyer for a prestigious firm, while Lolo struggles to make ends meet with her sex-positive art.
Popeye, who works at the draft bureau, is suspicious and sends a female dummy in to create an enthusiastic reaction from him.
Changes in Guild Films version The original ending, featuring the Dove proudly displaying his defeated enemies' heads above the fireplace and urging viewers to buy war bonds, was rarely seen after the short was syndicated to TV through Guild Films in the 1950s.
Jimmy finds out that Homayoun (Sam Golzari), Mehdi's son, is gay and is secretly dating African American Freddy.
He hopes to hold off on Brown Nation and take a closer look at the type of feedback the series elicits to see if there's enough substance for another season.
These two shorts and the 1930 live-action film Check and Double Check constitute the only visual representations of Amos 'n' Andy prior to the advent of network television.
See also List of basketball films References External links White Men Can't Jump on Hulu White Men Can't Jump at IMDb
The song then ends with the boy having to wrap up the letter as he is about to join the others in burning down the neighboring camp lodge.
Luther Williams Field was home to the Macon Music, a minor league team in the independent South Coast League.
None of the copies is complete, but only the first and the last leaf are not present in any of them.
Michael Berry, who started translating Wuhan Diary into English beginning in February 2020 said that he translated the book in order for "the world to learn from China's experience in Wuhan".
As it turns out, he is the one behind Aoi House's creation, whereas Carlo just pitched the idea to him after reading one of his flyers.
Reception Avram Davidson praised the novel as a "superior work of fiction", citing Dick's use of the I Ching as "fascinating".
(The majority of the books in both the list of manuscripts and list of illuminated manuscripts are codices.) More modern works that include "codex" as part of their name are not listed here.
The painter Jacques Blanche, for example, said that "nothing is less true than their journals", though André Gide, who thoroughly enjoyed the Journal's accounts of conversations, retorted that that would make the Goncourts' achievement as original artists all the greater.
Following the anime series' finale, a theatrical anime film titled Eiga Senpai wa Otokonoko: Ame Nochi Hare was announced on September 27, 2024.
Felicia Hemans contributed "The Broken Chain" and Letitia Landon,"The Altered River" and her "Verses" on Georgiana, Duchess of Bedford.
It is invaluable for the insight it gives into life in rural Ireland in the early 19th century, and is a rare example of an early modern diary written in the Irish language.
The coloring book was released prior to the ten-year anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks and drew criticism from American Muslim groups for its representation of Muslims.
At that time, the Báb's restrictions were not severe, and he was permitted to write and communicate with his followers.
An English translation of the diary, titled Wuhan Diary: Dispatches from a Quarantined City, was published in book format by HarperCollins in June 2020.
‡ Volume 5 of the original printing by Plan Nine Publishing shares an ISBN with Orange Alert by John Robey, a webcomic printed by the same publisher.
A manga adaptation illustrated by Seikan began serialization on Ichijinsha's Zero Sum Online manga website in July 2021.
Headings kept readers oriented in time and space, as did brief summaries, running down the book's generously wide margins, of each stage of the action.
The transcription was minimally edited by Mary Lutyens, an authorized Krishnamurti biographer and longtime friend.
In the night, Butler's henchmen, Macdonald and Deveroux, murder Illo and Terzky during a banquet, then kill Wallenstein himself in his bedroom.
A table-book is a manuscript or printed book which is arranged so that all the parts of a piece of music can be read from it while seated around a table.
Wasabi (ワサビ, Wasabi) A "Semi-First-Grade Rewinder", who is often characterized by his gas mask and his Retry Eye's heart-shaped pupil.
The garden design, asserts the text, should include rocks and raised mounds of summits, manicured with plants and trees of diverse varieties, artificial ponds and flowing brooks.
Themes include those of love, hate and revenge, as well as self-sacrifice, power and the nature of truth.
The Condemned Villainess Goes Back in Time and Aims to Become the Ultimate Villain (Japanese: 断罪された悪役令嬢は、逆行して完璧な悪女を目指す, Hepburn: Danzai sareta Akuyaku Reijō wa, Gyakkō-shite Kanpeki na Akujo o Mezasu) is a Japanese light novel series written by Bakufu Narayama and illustrated by Ebisushi.
Many of the photographs included in the book were originally taken by Bond whilst shooting commissioned features for the style and culture monthly The Face—during the period that the magazine was art directed by Lee Swillingham and Stuart Spalding, 1995–1999.
Woolman states that while in the Province of Maryland, "a deep and painful exercise came upon me....as the people in this and the Southern Provinces live much on the labor of slaves, many of whom are used hardly...".
ABD was the first Estonian alphabet book with a separate title page, and it also included a guide on how to teach reading.
The Goncourt Journal was a diary written in collaboration by the brothers Edmond and Jules de Goncourt from 1850 up to Jules' death in 1870, and then by Edmond alone up to a few weeks before his own death in 1896.
He is intelligent, handsome, and his pheromones exert a powerful attraction on many people around him, who are Betas.
The language used is general and somewhat formulaic, drawing from the poetic diction of earlier writers like John Dryden and contemporaries such as James Thomson.
She takes up a job as the custodian outside Yurine's apartment since the demon residents would prevent the Heaven from pursuing her.
In The 13 Gates of the Necronomican: A Workbook of Magic (2012) author Donald Tyson referred to the Lovecraft/Houdini collaboration as follows: At the time of his death, Houdini had been corresponding with Lovecraft regarding a book on which they intended to collaborate, along with writer C.M.
Containing fourteen separate papers produced by various scholars working in the field of Pagan studies, the book examines different forms of contemporary Paganism as practiced in Europe and North America.
Later systems of displaying parts worked for up to six performers, and in extreme cases as many as 12.
The Spectator asserted that "All who delight in Lord Dunsany's strange fantastic imagination will give a warm welcome to this collection of four of his plays".
Each recipe card has a standardized format; each recipe is calibrated to feed 100 people, with a basic nutritional analysis across the top of the card.
Writings by Simone de Beauvoir, Erskine Caldwell, William Faulkner, Henry Miller and John Steinbeck were included, that Delpire positioned opposite Frank's photographs.
With respect to A Night at an Inn, The Spectator declared that its "subtle horror" would "make it difficult for the reader to put it aside until the last word has been read".
A veces te la dan de a dos, pero por suerte ya no la patota entera, el límite lo puso el Rata que creyó en tu amor.
It is the oldest Mandaic manuscript that is currently held at a European institutional library and is a prayerbook containing dozens of Mandaean prayers.
Becomes stepbrother to Sandy and half-brother to Angela after his father marries Sandy's mother halfway through the series.
Reception and awards The book was well reviewed, receiving a starred review from Kirkus Reviews and Publishers Weekly.
The comic has received mixed reactions over the years due to its treatment of topics such as race, feminism, politics, and sexism.
Wallenstein lets his comrades in on his plans but – unknown to him – one of them, Octavio Piccolomini, remains loyal to the emperor, for whom he is spying.
The Egyptologists Richard Lewis Jasnow and Karl-Theodor Zauzich have dubbed a long Egyptian text from the Ptolemaic period "The Ancient Egyptian Book of Thoth".
Geoff has travelled extensively in Mexico, guiding small groups and teaching them photography in Mexico since 1980.
Notes References External links Web novel at Shōsetsuka ni Narō (in Japanese) Light novel official website (in Japanese) Manga official website (in Japanese) Anime official website (in Japanese) I'll Become a Villainess Who Goes Down in History (light novel) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
As she continues to push him to become more assertive, he slowly realizes he is falling in love with her, and gradually comes out of his shell and involves himself in her life.
While some miniature books are objects of high craft, bound in fine Moroccan leather, with gilt decoration and excellent examples of woodcuts, etchings, and watermarks, others are cheap, disposable, sometimes highly functional items not expected to survive.
In October 2025, Seven Seas Entertainment announced that they had also licensed the manga adaptation for English publication, with the first volume set to release in September 2026.
Stroński has listed 22 passages by troubadours that reference the story, including two by Raimbaut de Vaqueiras.
In these scenes, Poliphilo wanders a bucolic-classical dreamland in search of his love, Polia ("many things").
It was established in 1908 as The Blue Print and is the second oldest student organization on campus.
The series is animated by Children's Playground Entertainment and directed by Yuu Nobuta, with Tatsuya Takahashi overseeing the series' scripts, Koji Haneda designing the characters, and Ryūichi Takada and Keigo Hoashi from MONACA composing the music.
Anime In October 2022, it was announced that the series would receive an anime television series adaptation.
In May 2021, Seven Seas Entertainment announced that they had licensed the manga for English release in North America in both physical and digital formats starting on October 12, 2021.
She is hard to impress, although he wears a superhero costume and builds a life-size statue of an Apatosaurus in her yard using Popsicle sticks.
Reception In 2019 the series was awarded with the Today's Our Manhwa Award by the Korean Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism.
These ones are the famous twenty difficulties, thirty-two beauties and the end of the prologue, together with the end of the epilogue.
Publication Written and illustrated by Rin Miasa, Koigakubo-kun Stole My First Time began serialization on Kodansha's Pixiv-based Palcy website and app on March 30, 2021.
Gay enhances the story with her quirky, endearing illustrations." Awards Winner of the 2000 Governor General's Award for Children's Illustration Finalist for the CBA Illustrator of the Year Award References External links Author's website Illustrator's website
His routine is disrupted when Jōgamine, a determined high school girl who declares herself his apprentice inserts herself into his work.
In 1906, its year of incorporation, Josten added class rings to his product line, the market being the Midwest.
Octavo is also used as a general description of the size of books that are about 8 to 10 inches (200 to 250 millimetres) tall (almost A4 paper size), and as such does not necessarily indicate the actual printing format of the books, which may even be unknown as is the case for many modern books.
It has often been reread in the context of the papacy of Pope Benedict XVI in order to better understand the mind and the thinking of the former pontiff.
Marvel came under criticism for censoring some of the Essential books, specifically Essential Tomb of Dracula Vol.
Officially the Camarilla denies the existence of the ancients, believing them long extinct, its Archons hunting and destroying Noddist lore.
Thus, roughly half the book is made up of "sayings" of this type, while the other half consists of longer poetic units of various types.
Notes References External links Anime official website (in Japanese) Peter Grill and the Philosopher's Time (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
These often conflicted with each other and Storytellers were encouraged to add to the chaos, simulating the problems the Noddist scholars must face.
Jinguji is provided with superhuman strength and various skills, while Hinata has almost nothing except for supernatural beauty that entices men.
For the Japanese dub, the opening theme song is "Ii yo" (いいよ; 'Alright'), performed by Daoko, while the ending theme song is "Sono Hitomi de" (その瞳で; 'In Those Eyes'), performed by XAI.
It was later acquired by Futabasha, who have published five volumes since January 2019 under their M Novels imprint.
Mia offers to train Rui to get better at romance by becoming his partner, but finds herself becoming attracted to him.
An anime television series adaptation by Team Till Dawn aired from October 2, 2020, to March 27, 2021, on the Super Animeism block.
Manga A manga adaptation illustrated by Fuh Araki began serialization on Earth Star Entertainment's Comic Earth Star manga website on April 27, 2017.
Kiyomi Urusugawa (漆栖川 希詠, Urusugawa Kiyomi) Voiced by: Fairouz Ai (Japanese); Hayden Daviau (English) An exorcist who resents exorcists with offensive-type abilities.
The mission is a joint American–Russian undertaking, and seventy of the First Hundred are drawn from these countries (except, for example, Michel Duval, a French psychologist assigned to observe their behavior).
Ishida said in 2017, "Over the years [Sinfest] has gone through many changes, to the delight of some and dismay of others.
Hudson Taylor and missionaries of the China Inland Mission used the four-color version in open-air preaching and individual evangelism.
In the United States, a book on the life and works of Aldus Manutius by Helen Barolini was set within pages that reproduce all the illustrations and many of the full pages from the original work, reconstructing the original layout.
Erdman bases this argument on the fact that William Henry was apprenticed to the surgeon John Hunter, who is represented in An Island by Jack Tearguts, to whom Sipsop is apprenticed.
Though Penguin Random House still publishes titles that used to be published by Price Stern Sloan, they no longer use Price Stern Sloan as an imprint.
Some of the early keys may encode descriptions of actual laboratory techniques and observed results.
The Ahiman Rezon prepared by Smith in 1781, and used by the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, as well as Daicho's edition of 1807, used by the Grand Lodge of Ancient York Masons of South Carolina, are both based on the original text written by Laurence Dermott, which was first published in A.D.
Described as an American cultural icon, the image of Betty Crocker has endured several generations, adapting to changing social, political, and economic currents.
Later, he kills a bandit and discovers that his skill "Gluttony" has a secret ability that allows him to grow stronger by absorbing other skills.
After about 1540 books tended to conform to a pattern that included the author, title-page, date, seller, and place of printing.
Pytheas of Massilia described a similar expedition in more detail a few centuries later, around 325 BC.
The artwork and the artist, he explains, exist in a dynamic where each appears to be a provider of the other.
János Karácsonyi identified this person with John, who served as provincial general of the Franciscan Order in Hungary from 1323 to 1331.
When Hayes moved to New York, his relationship with Sacks – a fellow insomniac, and at 75 nearly thirty years his senior – soon turned romantic.
Volumes Live-action film In July 2020, it was announced that the manga would receive a "screen adaptation".
In a 16th-century painting by Ali-Shir Nava'i from modern-day Uzbekistan, Mani is shown at the throne Bahram as the king inspects one of the prophet's illustrations.
The work is in large parts marked by serenity and resignation, but also bears witness to Rousseau's awareness of the ill-effects of persecution towards the end of his life.
It was later acquired by Micro Magazine who published seven volumes with illustrations by Ririnra under their GC Novels light novel imprint from November 30, 2020, to August 29, 2025.
It featured sections on the history of the school, the classes, sports, organizations, fraternities, and advertisements.
Purpose A patent grants its owner(s) the right to sue those who manufacture and market products or services that infringe on the claims declared in the patent.
Summary The plot of Yuck, A Love Story centres on a young boy named Austin, who is upset that a girl named Amy is moving into the house next door.
Moortown Diary, sometimes just known as Moortown, is a poetry diary which details the everyday life of a working farm, first published in 1979.
The Gutenberg Bible was printed as a folio in about 1455, in which four pages of text were printed on each sheet of paper, which were then folded once.
After Natsuki's classmate, Hata, sees her without her mask on, the two begin a secret relationship where they show each other their faces in private.
It began serialization on the user-generated novel publishing website Shōsetsuka ni Narō in November 2020.
Plot Set in mid-21st-century Tokyo, the criminal underworld is dominated by Demon Lords, gang leaders who have gained overwhelming powers through ether enhancement and Demon King Transformation Surgery.
Unfinished Tales provides more detailed information about characters, events and places mentioned only briefly in The Lord of the Rings.
The Book of Constitutions of this Grand Lodge or Ahiman Rezon was a constitution written by Laurence Dermott for the Ancient Grand Lodge of England which was formed in 1751.
Bondy, Miniature Books: Their History from the Beginnings to the Present Day, London, Sheppard Press, 1981.
The book includes a foreword essay, "A Response to the Photographs", by psychoanalyst and author Darian Leader.
Plot Publication Written and illustrated by Esu Omori, Shiba Inu Rooms was originally published as a one-shot on Shueisha's Shōnen Jump+ manga service on July 22, 2023.
External links Official manga website (in Japanese) Half Is More (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
Simpson claims to have been influenced by various comics and cartoons such as Bloom County, Calvin and Hobbes, The Simpsons, and Pogo.
The Massaliote Periplus or Massiliote Periplus is a now-lost merchants' handbook, possibly dating from as early as the 6th century BC, describing the sea routes used by traders from Phoenicia and Tartessus in their journeys around Iron Age Europe.
As the manga was entering its final arc, they were also concerned about being able to deliver something of the quality they wanted without starting over.
These last 25 were manufactured by Editions Rene Block, Berlin, and stuffed into plastic skins rather than intestine.
2 both have missing pages from their earlier printings) and reshuffled content to put volume breaks in more logical places, continuity-wise.
The Armed Forces Recipe Service is a compendium of high-volume foodservice recipes written and updated regularly by the United States Department of Defense Natick Laboratories and used by military cooks and by institutional and catering operations.
Some of the descriptions that stand out include: the characterization of the brothel as a matadero infecto and the threat that at the slightest provocation te pasan a degüello como un chancho y te filetean como jamón cuando quieran.
It was thought lost, but an early copy of the manuscript had been kept, safely and secretly, by Lowry's first wife Jan Gabrial.
Until 2008, the original collages of Une semaine de bonté, which Max Ernst kept throughout his life, had only been exhibited once in their entirety: in March 1936 at the Museo Nacional de Arte Moderno (National Museum of Modern Art) in Madrid.
In the 1964 lecture, Feynman presents an elementary geometric proof (i.e., in the style of Isaac Newton's 1687 Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica) of Kepler's first law.
Publication Written and illustrated by Kozue Amano, Colori Colore Creare began serialization on Mag Garden's Mag Comi manga website on March 10, 2022.
Poems Some poems in the collection include: Rain Dehorning Bringing in New Couples Tractor Roe-Deer Sketching a Thatcher Ravens February 17 Birth of Rainbow The Day He Died == References ==
Shion is a member of the Amuntzers, an organization known for attacking adventurers to prevent them from conquering the dungeons and inadvertently releasing the Evil God from the mythical age.
However, he did not manage to make the Arabic Bayán complete and it remained unfinished with his execution in 1850.
The use of the term "octavo" as applied to such books refers to books which are generally between 8 and 10 inches (200 and 250 mm) tall, the most common size for modern hardbound books.
See also Naxalite Parliamentary cretinism References External links Charu Majumdar Archives Is there a Charu Mazumdar Thought?
Topics The true Spirit and letter of Vatican II The Church as God's Church, not the laity Church The nature of the priesthood The papacy, the episcopacy, and the role of bishops' conferences.
Vaspurakan The so-called Vaspurakan school was one of the main centers of Armenian art in the 13th and 14th centuries, nearly 1500 of its manuscripts have survived, with most of them containing miniatures.
The treatise is mentioned in the 1893 short story "The Final Problem", when Holmes, speaking of Professor Moriarty, states: He is a man of good birth and excellent education, endowed by nature with a phenomenal mathematical faculty.
The recipes demonstrate the influence that Britain's colonies were beginning to exert on British lifestyle and cuisine.
And then the key - they always ask then, "Well, how do you see that it's an ellipse if it's the inverse square?" Well, it's God damned hard, there's no question of that.
Reystov (レイストフ, Reisutofu) Voiced by: Kenji Nomura An adventurer that Will hires while in Whitesails.
The Zürau Aphorisms (German: Die Zürauer Aphorismen) are 109 aphorisms of Franz Kafka, written from September 1917 to April 1918 and published by his friend Max Brod in 1931, after his death, in the 1931 collection The Great Wall of China.
References External links Official website on Naver Webtoon (in Korean) Official website on Line Webtoon
The book, published by Prometheus Books (ISBN 1-57392-968-9), is a collection of Isaac Asimov's diaries, personal letters, and a condensation of his three earlier autobiographies: In Memory Yet Green, (1979, Doubleday) In Joy Still Felt, (1980, Doubleday) I.
An anime film titled Hanasaku Iroha: The Movie – Home Sweet Home was released in Japanese theaters on March 30, 2013.
In January 2025, Viz Media announced that they would release the series volumes digitally in Q4 2025.
Included there was the picture of an ass laden with rich foods and cropping a thistle, surrounding which is the quatrain: The Asse which dainty meates doth beare And feedes on thistles all the yeare Is like the wretch that hourds up gold And yet for want doth suffer cold.
Kerouac immediately told Frank "Sure I can write something about these pictures," and he contributed the introduction to the U.S.
The English emblematist Geoffrey Whitney also uses the story in his Choice of Emblemes (1586) under the device 'Look not on high' (noli altum sapere) but extends the lesson in the second and third stanzas of his accompanying poem.
The book, however, also includes words from the Italian language and illustrations which include Arabic and Hebrew words.
References External links AIP Niels Bohr Library holdings entry 1937 review in The Journal of Physical Chemistry: doi:10.1021/j150380a025
'I'll Only Fall in Love With You') by Jun Fukuyama, while the ending theme song is "Alibi na Courtesy" (アリバイなカーテシー; lit.
Pseudonyms Throughout the book, Agee and Evans use pseudonyms to obscure the identity of the three tenant farmer families.
The Ourboox platform enables users to add text in any language that is compatible with html5, to add artwork in JPEG, PNG, or GIF formats, and to embed various media content from other websites, e.g.
Once he regains his senses, Oliver is freed from Filly's brainwashing and remembers the details of his promise with Orun and Shion long ago.
Quotes from Montalcini: "the quibbles of a philosopher!" accuses Rita Levi Montalcini, which was the protagonist, with Di Pietro and Archbishop Martini, of last anti-drug publicity campaign.
Generations later, the story's protagonist, Setne Khaemwaset (a character based on the historical prince Khaemwaset), steals the book from Neferkaptah's tomb despite opposition from Neferkaptah's ghost.
In the first 136 leaves, a block of ten lines of text written in these letters is 74 millimetres high, and there are usually 18 to 20, though occasionally 21, lines per page.
17 (Augustine, Semons) London, British Library, Royal MS 5 D VII (Augustine, City of God) Historical works Dublin, Royal Irish Academy (Lebor na hUidre, (Book of the Dun Cow)) Berengaudus Durham, Cathedral Library, MS A.
Fate Rewinder: All Great Feats Require Time (Japanese: 運（うん）命（めい）の巻（まき）戻（もど）士（し）, Hepburn: Unmei no Makimodoshi; lit.
The content of the book is a mix of autobiographical anecdote, descriptions of the sights, especially plants, that Rousseau saw in his walks on the outskirts of Paris, and elaborations and extensions of arguments previously made by Rousseau in fields like education and political philosophy.
In 2009 Reklaw introduced continuity into the strip, with characters encountering situations based on the dreams submitted by the readers.
The story is loosely inspired by Andersen's The Little Mermaid with the chapters named after key turning points of the original tale.
Nina apparently works at Sandy's and Maria's bookstore in the epilogue, but since she is still a slacker, Helena and Victor seem to do her job for her.
Each volume contains a translation of the ancient text, detailed annotations, a large number of maps, extensive footnotes and margin notes, summaries of each "book" (chapter) of the text, numerous appendixes, and an index.
As such, Hale's distribution "hath therefore been principally followed" [by Blackstone in An Analysis .
Book of Thoth is a name given to many ancient Egyptian texts attributed to Thoth, the Egyptian god of writing and knowledge.
It also describes seaways running northwards from Cádiz in Spain along the coast of Atlantic Europe to Brittany, Ireland and Britain.
The opening theme song is "C'est la vie", performed by Bullet Train, and the ending theme song is "Sankaku Game" (さんかくゲーム; 'Triangular Game'), performed by Yuika.
External links Official manga website (in Japanese) Heterogenia Linguistico (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
In Ballast to the White Sea was an unpublished novel by Malcolm Lowry, his second, which was lost in a fire which consumed his house in 1944.
A single-play condensed translation by Robert Pinsky, directed by Michael Kahn and with Steve Pickering in the title role, was staged at the Shakespeare Theatre Company in Washington, D.C.
Invention of the event score is usually credited to George Brecht, but La Monte Young and Yoko Ono are also cited as amongst the first to experiment with the form.
Medusa (メデューサ, Medyūsa) Voiced by: Miyu Kubota A Gorgon from Hell who is close friends with Jashin, despite the latter seeing her more as a walking cash machine.
Survive Through the Power of Simping began serialization on Square Enix's manga website Gangan Online on January 10, 2023.
Stagnate (スタグネイト, Sutaguneito) Voiced by: Hiroki Takahashi The deity of the Undead whom Blood, Mary, and Gus made a contract to.
Clarke is determined to woo Lettie and marry her, while Lettie is determined to resist his charms and escape.
The tankōbon volumes have since been translated into other languages: Kazé began publishing the series in German in April 2022, Dango Manga in Thai beginning in June 2022, and Seven Seas Entertainment in English in September 2022.
The series is produced by C-Station and directed by Yutaka Hirata, featuring scripts by Mutsumi Ito, character designs by Yoshimitsu Yamashita, and music by Akiyuki Tateyama.
Episodes See also Real Account, another manga series illustrated by Shizumu Watanabe Notes References External links Official manga website at Magazine Pocket (in Japanese) Official anime website (in Japanese) Dead Account (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
It is later revealed that when Lemon had lied about cheating as a way to end their relationship because she was too scared to confront her feelings for Sunao, which continue to this day.
The book is very critical of the "hermeneutic of rupture" associated with the liberal "spirit of Vatican II" within the Church.
The interviews she brought together are now part of their permanent Holocaust exhibit as well as being set down in this book from Ebury Press.
The Psalter of Cashel (Irish: Saltair Caisil) is a now-lost Irish manuscript, which seems to have been highly influential in Irish historiographical tradition.
The famous man voices opposition to scientists since some had aided the Holocaust, and Isaac replies that this is exactly the same as condemning the Jews for crucifying Jesus.
Circa 2000, the Museum allowed the author and a team of researchers access to the complete audio tapes.
She is a big anime fan, to the point she would go home early to watch instead of spending time with her co-workers.
Madoka Kirisaki (霧崎 円, Kirisaki Madoka) Voiced by: Kazuya Nakai (Japanese); Billy Kametz (English) A delinquent.
As the characters' personality developed, the reviewer highly praised the realistic interactions between them as they are touching and substantial.
Publication Written and illustrated by Hijiki, A Yuri Love Story That Begins with Getting Dumped in a Dream began as a webcomic published on the author's Twitter account on July 20, 2021.
See also Baruch Spinoza Collegiants Divine light Quakers References External links The Light upon the Candlestick at Quaker Universalist Fellowship The History of the Rise, Increase, and Progress of the Christian People Called Quakers by Willem Sewel at the Internet Archive
A complete Russian translation by the art historian Boris Sokolov is now in progress, of which the "Cythera Island" part was published in 2005 and is available online.
It is serialized online through Mag Garden's MAGxiv label on pixiv Comic from April 2, 2018, to October 10, 2022, after which the series went on hiatus.
He quotes the aphorism printed first in Brod's book: Der wahre Weg geht über ein Seil, das nicht in der Höhe gespannt ist, sondern knapp über dem Boden.
Volume list Live action adaptation A live action adaptation titled Jeongnyeon: The Star Is Born was first announced in 2020 by Naver webtoon.
Utano is an elite graduate of a music college, but due to bad luck and timing she keeps changing jobs from idol, enka singer, and jazz singer.
Notes References External links Manga (part 1) official website (in Japanese) Manga (part 2) official website (in Japanese) Manga (part 3) official website (in Japanese) Anime official website (in Japanese) Tasūketsu: Fate of the Majority (manga) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia
During this period, the company briefly operated an imprint called "Troubador Poets", which focused on publishing contemporary poets associated with the emerging Beat movement.
He continues to be somewhat of a problem for Sandy and Alex; he keeps a close on eye them because of the trouble they caused in the past.
In the drawing some details are altered, and the mountain in the centre, and the vegetation at either side are extended.
One of the rare tales in which only human beings figure, it teaches that inciting others to do wrong makes one equally culpable.
For more information about the history of these titles, see Ace Books, which includes a discussion of the serial numbering conventions used and an explanation of the letter-code system.
In 2018, approximately 50,000 audiobooks were recorded in the United States with a sales growth of 20 percent year over year.
For the 2018 entering class, 61% of students graduated within four years (among the highest rate of any U.S.
Third Roman edition, De insulis indi(a)e supra Gangem nuper inve(n)tis by the Roman printer Franck Silber (who was known as "Eucharius Argenteus").
It was just written after Eiximenis' arrival in Valencia, and it was dedicated to the jurats (representatives of the city).
Color cosmology The success of the Wordless Book in communicating with East Asian peoples is disputable due to the influence of "color cosmology" (Wu Xing) or color psychology in Chinese culture.
Teodor managed the work, which included the redaction of the psalter's text, the design and carving of the decorative woodcuts, typesetting, preparation of ink and paper, printing, drying and gathering of the printed sheets, and other tasks; the books were not bound at the printing house.
He felt very comfortable there and later described his time there as perhaps the best in his life, probably because he had no responsibilities to work, parents and women.
The fourth focuses on the inner senses of hunger, thirst, joy and sadness, as well as the role of the organs in the formation of animal spirits.
In addition to organizing the annual conference, CABC's planning committee commissions a new artists’ book as part of its program.
