The first Shia theocracy in the 20th century was established in Iran following the Iranian Revolution in 1979, which led to the fall of the Shah of Iran.
He ordered the Iranian delegation to the UN to negotiate issues pending before the Security Council directly with the Soviet delegation.
The National Cartography Center of Iran (NCCC, Persian: سازمان نقشه برداری کشور) is the main organization for cartography in Iran.
He also announced plans to provide 14,000 houses to households with two disabled members through the foundation’s programs.
While their efforts went unanswered by both Iranian and international authorities and organizations, they searched for new ways to produce awareness of Iran's human rights violations and redefined legal boundaries to further the cause of justice.
Formation The establishment of the Imperial Inspectorate Organization was shaped by the context and factors primarily associated with the events and aftermath of the 1953 Iranian coup d'état.
The group itself also took part in insurgent activities, and is alleged to be involved in the killing of six British Royal Military Policemen in June 2003 by a mob in Majar al-Kabir, Maysan Governorate.
The Expediency Council is only meant to act on behalf of the legislative branch, although in reality it intercedes as a mediator between all bureaucratic branches, including the executive.
Yahya Ale Eshaq (Persian: یحیی آل‌اسحاق; born June 6, 1949 in Qom, origin from Zanjan) is an Iranian politician who served as minister of commerce in the cabinet of Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani from 1993 to 1997.
The Islamic Republican Party (IRP) which together with its Khomeinist allies had seized power and ousted all opponents, held an uncontested and single-party presidential election in October 1981 and got its candidate Ali Khamenei elected.
Abu'l-Fath al-Fadl ibn Ja'far ibn al-Furat (died 938), held several posts in the fiscal ministries of land revenue, vizier for a few months in 932 and in 937.
UAE has disputed Iran's sovereignty over Abu Musa, an island in the Persian Gulf that was agreed in a 1971 memorandum of understanding to be jointly administered with Iran for civil matters in the southern part of the island (called Jazirat-Abu-Musa in Arabic and Jazireh-ye-Abu-Musa in Persian).
The National Front was led by Majlis Member, Mohammed Mossadegh, whose leading ally in Parliament was the Assembly Speaker, Ayatollah Kashani.
After the revolution, it was dissolved in mid-1985 and the Youth and Adolescents Organization was formed.
He received his PhD from Imam Sadiq University in 2004 and now is a professor of communications at this university.
He involved in the discussions of a potential World Oil Bank involving Russia and Venezuela, and agreed on a cooperation protocol with the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
This card is intended to reduce the need for the more valuable Iranian identity booklet, which is issued at birth.
Sousan Keshavarz, Mohammad Aliabadi, and Fatemeh Ajorlou were not approved by Parliament for the Ministries of Education, Energy, and Welfare and Social Security respectively.
They find that the annual middle-class size would have been approximately 11 percentage points larger, on average, without the post-2012 sanctions.
The second attack took place on 6 December 2024, when another group of Australian arsonists firebombed the Adass Israel Synagogue in Melbourne, injuring one congregation member and dealing approximately A$45 million of property damage.
Key organizations of member states Member states are represented at the OPCW by their Permanent Representative.
September 2025 Visa Policy Update In September 2025, the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs revised its August 2025 visa policy, clarifying that the new restrictions apply only to citizens of European countries, Australia, New Zealand, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada.
That same year, Iran hosted the historic Ramsar Convention on Wetlands of International Importance, positioning the DOE as a pioneer in international environmental governance in the Global South.
Most international sanctions on Iran were lifted in 2016, following the implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action nuclear deal.
The incident sparked tensions with Iran; the Iranian government denounced Erdoğan's remarks as an act of challenging Iran's sovereignty, and a number of Iranian citizens protested at Turkish diplomatic missions in their country.
4 In view of Article (15) of the Act on the Organization and Support of the Production and Supply of Housing, approved on May 14, 2008, a 12 percent tax shall be applied to the transactional value of the undeveloped lands with residential use.
He was president of Torr International, a nanotechnology company headquartered in New Windsor, New York.
I believe part of the blame lies with the satellite dish issue at Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting.
A survey may be carried out by a flag State, or by a Classification Society who have been authorised by a flag State.
Chitgar was presented amongst many others, such as Iran's former prime minister Shapour Bakhtiar who had also been assassinated during his French exile .
He returned to Iran in 2005, recanting his statements, then migrated to the United Arab Emirates in 2011.
After great public outcry and journalistic investigation in Iran and publicity internationally, prosecutors announced in mid-1999 that one Saeed Emami had led "rogue elements" in Iran's intelligence ministry in the killings, but that Emami was now dead, having committed suicide in prison.
With an average wait time of 2 minutes and 5 seconds, the hotline directly answered 17,866 calls while automatically processing an additional 12,224 through its IVR system.
They sought to resist Western intervention and regime change efforts in the country, which they believe, if successful, would challenge their own influence in the region and potentially lead to regime change in Iran.
Under its charter, EDBI acts as the administrative arm of the Government of Iran to contribute to the national economy, through promoting non-oil export of goods and other technical and engineering services of Iranian origin and also to enhance economic cooperation with other countries.
In June 2004, the Supreme Court substituted a charge of "insulting religious values" for the blasphemy charge, and imposed a jail term of three years among other penalties.
This includes: implementing commercial strategies and regulations, promoting exports, development programs, import and export regulations, pricing of domestic commodities, domestic and international trade fairs and exhibitions.
The goal was to quell regional uprisings and modernize the Persian army, but as a result of pressure from Russia and the United Kingdom, Sweden decided to call back most of their officers during World War I.
The Shia Crescent is the notionally crescent-shaped region of the West Asia where the majority population is Shia or where there is a strong Shia minority in the population.
Iran agreed covertly to issue the loan and also invited selected Sri Lankan officers to train in Iran for the war.
Six of Irsan's children who were still minors were put in the custody of child protective services (CPS).
The organization was governed by a five-member High Council composed of experts selected by the Minister of Health, Treatment and Medical Education.
Hasanvand acknowledged to be a member of Ministry of Intelligence and National Security (Iran) during his first election campaign.
In 1943, Radio Tehran added another section to the number of its previous sections, and its program was increased by three hours in the mornings.
After election of Hassan Rouhani as President, Management and Planning Organization was restored in November 2014 and Mohammad Bagher Nobakht was appointed as its head.
Meanwhile, conservative Iranian politicians have criticized him for publicizing his inability to solve the improve condition for Iranian citizens.
During a February 2025 meeting between Khamenei and the IRGC, commanders pressured Khamenei to rescind his ban on nuclear weapons.
Qajar dynasty Naser al-Din Shah Mozaffar ad-Din Shah Ahmad Shah Pahlavi dynasty Reza Shah Mohammad Reza Shah See also List of international trips made by presidents of Iran Foreign relations of Iran References == External links ==
The United States dismissed announced a "draft accord" among permanent Security Council members for additional sanctions on Iran, designed to pressure it to end its nuclear enrichment program.
1968 – 8 August 1998) was an Iranian reporter, working for IRNA, as the news agency's head of office in Mazar-i-Sharif, Afghanistan.
Armenian names Armenian compound personal names often contain the element "šah," meaning "king" in Middle Persian and New Persian.
The government provided transgender persons financial assistance in the form of grants of up to 45 million rials $1,240 and loans up to 55 million rials $1,500 to undergo gender reassignment surgery.
The mechanism thus neutralized the potential veto power of Russia or China (or, conversely, the U.S., UK or France) if Iran were in material breach.
After the Iranian Revolution of 1979, which formed the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Majles was succeeded by the Islamic Consultative Assembly, and the Senate of Iran was abolished, making it once again a unicameral legislature.
As prior deputy managing director of the Foundation for Freedom, Growth and Development of Iran (BARAN Foundation, outlawed in 2011), he was arrested in December 2009 following the Ashura protests and held in Solitary confinement in Evin Prison.
During final years of the 1970s he served as Foreign-Affairs Adviser to prime ministers Amir Abbas Hoveyda, Jamshid Amouzegar and Jafar Sharif-Emami.
Hassan Yousefi Eshkevari, a religious scholar and journalist with Neshat and Iran-é-Farda, was imprisoned upon his return in August and tried before a Special Court for the Clergy beginning in October.
History Tasnim was founded on 30 June 2012 by Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) commander Hamidreza Moghaddamfar, board chairman Jafar Darouneh, and CEO Majid Qolizadeh Zahmatkesh.
Though the Free Palestine Movement's activity is mostly concentrated in Damascus, the organization is known to have committed forces to fronts in other regions of Syria as well.
Iranians who have served in the running or overseeing of Setad include Mohammad Javad Iravani, who took over as head of Setad in 1997, and Mohammad Mokhber, who became the CEO in 2007.
Ḥasan-ʿAli Ḥekmat, "Moḵtaṣar-i dar šarḥ-e zendegi-e ostād ʿAli-Aṣḡar-e Ḥekmat", unpublished pamphlet, Tehran, 1981.
Shah Abbas therefore opened negotiations with the Portuguese on Ormuz, although he made it clear he had no intention of handing back any of the places he had seized.
List Legend Reformist (7) Principlist (4) Military (0) References The Governors General of Iran's provinces were elected in the government of Ebrahim Raisi.
As such the tribunal proceedings may be considered as finalized per the date of establishing the foundation.
The Supreme Leader of Iran has the power to dismiss cabinet members like ministers, vice presidents and presidents at any time, regardless of parliamentary decisions.
The legal code is now based on Islamic law or sharia, although many aspects of civil law have been retained, and it is integrated into a civil law legal system.
Ta'zir imprisonment is a type of imprisonment that is written and executed, differing from Hadd imprisonment (divine limits prescribed by Islamic law).
History Traditionally in Shia Islam, an ayatollah has an office (bayt), often run by his son, to communicate and advise his followers on religious issues and to organize matters such as the collecting and distributing of charity.
After a few years, the building was given to the Iranian Police Criminal Investigation Department of Tabriz.
Fatiha stated the Coastal Shield Brigade would take responsibility for any operations done against Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham in the Latakia Governorate.
Mothers of Khavaran were the first to call for the release of prisoners and warn of their possible massacre.
His desire to study religious sciences led him to the Shahid Morteza Motahhar High School in Tehran in 1360.
On June 29, 2004, IAEA Director General Mohammad ElBaradei announced that the Bushehr reactor was "not of international concern" since it was a bilateral Russian-Iranian project intended to produce nuclear energy.
According to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, at least 35 Iran-backed militiamen were killed in the strikes in Syria including 16 fighters of the Iraqi Popular Mobilization Forces and 4 fighters of the Afghan Fatemiyoun brigade and 1 of the Zainabiyoun brigade.
He holds a bachelor's degree in law, a master's degree and a doctorate in law from the Faculty of Law and Political Science, University of Tehran, and a master's degree in management from Indiana University.
Voters were required to give name, address and the number and place of issuance of his identity card.
Background Iranian opposition has divided been for decades, consisting of diverse ideological groups including republicans, monarchists, and various civic society movements.
Later, she established an elementary school for Afghan refugees in Iran while she was working as Officer in Charge in Refugees' Cultural Center.
Before the referendum, some political groups suggested various names consonant with the ideology of the revolution, such as a Republic or a Democratic Republic.
The Swedish Security Service (SÄPO) was severely criticised for having obstructed the criminal investigation carried out by the local Swedish police by withholding important information.
According to a report by Le Figaro, Western intelligence sources claimed in 2015 that Khamenei had prostate cancer with two years left to live.
Certain analysts believe the campaign failed to change Iran's regional activities or counter Iran's proxy influence in the region, force Iran to renegotiate the nuclear deal and hinder its nuclear and missile programs.
However, under article 235, if the active partner is non-Muslim and the passive partner is non-Muslim, the penalty is execution.
However, an increasing inclination of using the library by the researches and scholars, prompted a faster growth to the library.
It is a subdivision of the Ministry of Industry, Mine and Trade, which was established in 1962 in cooperation with United Nations.
HispanTV has foreign journalists from Argentina, Chile, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Russia, Spain, and Venezuela.
A doctor, Yaser Rahmani–Rad, stated to Sky News that his network of doctors had previously estimated 20 to 30 thousand protest-related deaths, and at the time of the interview, published on 29 January, judged that the true value "could be higher".
Socially, the group was heterogeneous, including: Arab tribal settlers from Basra and Kufa Mawālī (clients of Arab tribes) Iranian converts and local elites integrated into the Abbasid military structure This composition reflects the broader social coalition that underpinned the Abbasid Revolution.
Implementation The representatives of the interim agreement parties announced that implementation of the interim agreement would begin on 20 January 2014.
The other candidate for the post of deputy speaker was Mohammad-Hassan Aboutorabi Fard, a representative from Qazvin who became the second deputy speaker with 173 votes.
Architecture The building has an area of about 9,600 square meters and 6,500 square meters of infrastructure built on three floors.
Mousavi Faraz's father was Seyyed-Akbar Havaei, who was a draper who encouraged his son to go to a hawzah.
Due to political problems with North Korea, freight from South Korea must currently be shipped by sea to the port of Vladivostok to access the route.
Mothers Riahi, Qaedi, the Zakipour family, Mothers Okhovat, Vatankhah, Rezaie Jahromi, Nader, Bazargan, Zargar, Mother and Father Mir Arab, Mothers Abkenari, Bazargan, Sadeqi, Jasm, Tonkaboni, and Mother Sarhaddi and her extended family continue to frequent and preserve this historic site.
Russia Ahmadinejad has moved to strengthen relations with Iran's northern neighbor Russia, setting up an office expressly dedicated to the purpose in October 2005.
He studied at Gorgan in 371/981, then in Nishapur, but he eventually made his home in Baghdad, where he studied under prominent scholars of his time.
Personal life Elham's spouse, Fatemeh Rajabi, is a journalist known for her support for Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and also for her fierce criticism of former-presidents Akbar Rafsanjani and Mohammad Khatami.
Poetry Although Bahār was a 20th-century poet, his poems are quite traditional and decidedly patriotic.
In Lebanon, Hezbollah marks the occasion by organizing a substantive military parade for the last week of each Ramadan.
According to the head of the vaccine production team at the SETAD, the results show that this vaccine also neutralizes the British mutated COVID-19 virus.
Prominent attendees included far right political activist David Duke, revisionist historical scholar Robert Faurisson and Haredi Rabbi and anti-Zionist activist Yisroel Dovid Weiss among others.
He then served as one of the 12 members of the Guardian Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran for eight years.
The Financial Times reported that such action could cause oil prices to surge beyond the recent 7–14% increases, possibly exceeding $100 to $150 per barrel.
In 2008, the then chief of Iran's judiciary, Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi, ordered a fresh investigation and did not sanction her execution ruling that her initial conviction (based as it was on a confession she made under duress) was unacceptable.
Initially, the organization was known as SAVAMA, and intended to replace SAVAK, Iran's intelligence agency during the rule of the Shah, but it is unclear how much continuity there is between the two organizations—while their role is similar, their underlying ideology is radically different.
Functions The Islamic Consultative Assembly holds the authority to legislate laws on all matters within the boundaries defined by the Constitution.
Nonetheless, the relation between the two countries remain tense, with Iran seeing Jordan's alliance with the West as a threat, and there being little economic cooperation between the two countries.
Mousavi's removal from his post at the academy has provoked outrage from his colleagues, with 27 of 30 faculty members threatening to resign in solidarity.
The most notable members of the family were: Abu'l-Abbas Ahmad ibn Muhammad ibn Musa ibn al-Hasan ibn al-Furat (died 904), chief fiscal minister of the caliphs al-Mu'tadid and al-Muktafi until his death.
(Persian: فهرست نمایندگان دوره چهارم مجلس خبرگان رهبری, romanized: Fehreste nâmâyandegân dore chahârom majles-e khobregân-e rahbari) consists of names of the members during the fourth term of the Assembly of Experts from 2006 to 2016.
Other standards to consider include allowing for interoperability: Railway electrification – 25 kV AC the world standard for new long distance and heavy duty construction since the 1950s.
According to Article 131, when the presidency is vacant or the president is unable to perform his duties, the first vice president assumes the role, subject to the supreme leader's approval.
When Ruhollah Khomeini returned home from exile, the Mansouroun group was tasked with protecting the revolutionary leader.
A referendum on the dissolution of Parliament, the first referendum ever held in Iran, was held in August 1953.
Heads Mohammad-Ali Rahmani (1991-2007) Aboutorab Bahrami (2007-2018) Alireza Adyani (2018-2025) Ali Shirazi (2025-present) == References ==
History In 1964, the Medical Council was first legislated by the Iranian Parliament which has been amended eight times in the following years.
He also called on Iran to take the opportunity to "proceed to peace and harmony in the region", and said that he "will enthusiastically encourage Israel to do the same".
Ebrahim Rezaei Babadi (Persian: ابراهیم رضایی بابادی, born 1955 in Abadan) is an Iranian politician, and the president of Touring & Automobile Club of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
When the killing of Iranian military advisor Kioumars Pourhashemi by a Syrian Army officer became known in Aleppo, this resulted in the mutiny or defection of numerous militias and formations, including the Baqir Brigade.
Film The Iranian film When the Moon Was Full, written and directed by Narges Abyar in 2019, which won several awards at the Fajr International Film Festival, tells the story of AbdolHamid Rigi and his wife.
An advocate for the division of sciences based on epistemology, Mirbaqiri propses that sciences can be categorized as religious or non-religious.
In December 2015, at the 29th International Islamic Unity Conference in Tehran, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani called on Muslim countries to unite and strive to improve Islam's public image, adding that "There is neither a Shiite nor a Sunni crescent.
The first aircraft in service was the RT-33, followed by the more advanced F-5 and F-4 reconnaissance aircraft.
While not an ultimate aim per se, nationalism was seen as an instrument of anti-colonialist practices.
The amount of power the holder of the post had, fluctuated quite significantly throughout the centuries.
With the approval of the Direct Tax Law of 1966, it was decided to form the Association of Certified Public Accountants, effectively collapsing the legal basis of the Association of Certified Public Accountants.
It was further reported that the Government of Sri Lanka declined a request from the United States to permit the landing of two US military aircraft at Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport.
But the legitimacy of Sheikh Fazlollah Noori, after nearly a century, became the foundation for drafting the text of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Statute of the Islamic Consultative Assembly of Iran after the Islamic Revolution of Iran in February 1979.
now after the attack on Qatar by Israeli Forces Qatar is now approaching towards The Arab leaders Like MBS's Saudi Arabia to increase security corporation Russia Russia has been aligned with Iran and Syria for years.
Javanfekr is at present (27 February 2012) Presidential Advisor of Press Affairs and according to IRNA heads the official Islamic Republic News Agency and the Iran Press and Cultural Institute affiliated to IRNA.
According to the historian Martin Sprengling, Sulayman was well-versed in Arabic and Greek, as evidenced by the role he was assigned by Caliph Abd al-Malik as the katib (secretary) for official correspondence.
He was the first non-Christian diplomat at the General Assembly in New York and served as Iran ambassador to the United States until 1952, when he was removed and replaced by Allah-Yar Saleh under Prime Minister Mohammad Mosaddegh.
The funds and assets of the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines (IRISL) were frozen and servicing of Iranian vessels inhibited.
'Possessors of Might'), previously known as the Southern Liberation Front (Arabic: جبهة تحرير الجنوب, romanized: Jabhat taḥrīr al-Janūb), is a militant organization established in response to the fall of the Assad regime and the ongoing Israeli invasion of Syria.
The Iraqi president, Saddam Hussein at the time, tore up the 1975 Algerian agreement by appearing in front of Iraqi television cameras, announcing the start of the Ba'athist regime's invasion of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Since 2011, AAH has assassinated Iraqi political opponents, killed civilian protesters, and continued attacks on U.S.
The National Post later retracted the original article and published an article, to the contrary ("Experts say report of badges for Jews in Iran is untrue").
There was extended debate about whether the bunker buster bombs would actually be able to destroy Fordow.
Biography Hedayat was born in Tehran on 8 June 1800 to a renowned family which was descended from the prominent 14th-century lyric-poet Kamal Khujandi.
The Islamic Republic of Iran Air Defense Force plays a crucial role in the nation's military framework, tasked with safeguarding Iran's airspace and essential infrastructure from aerial threats.
According to the report, a martial arts champion told an American diplomat that the Iranian government forces martial arts instructors to train the IRGC and Basij personnels and even participate in the suppression of opposition protests.
It is suspected that the new government was initially eager to purge SAVAK elements from the new organization, but that pragmatism eventually prevailed, with many experienced SAVAK personnel being retained in their roles.
The ideology of the Resistance Economy, with its core concepts of self-sufficiency, proclaims that the Islamic Republic can survive — and indeed flourish — despite the US-led sanctions.
On October 1, 2020, while meeting with the NAJA and the Intelligence Ministry of Iran, he believes that law enforcement should make, "the life of the unveiled unsafe".
Responding to negative reactions to Mostaan 110, IRGC spokesman Ramezan Sharif defended the IRGC's claims, saying the device had been tested for at least 10 days in at least 10 hospitals and treatment centers for coronary patients in the country more than 10 days before its official unveiling.
Due to the nature of its frequency, it can detect low-Radar cross-section targets such as stealth aircraft and cruise missiles with low accuracy at shorter ranges.
Transgender community Transgender people have formed non-governmental organizations and support groups in Iran.
He held this position until 1997 when he was replaced by Bijan Namdar Zanganeh after the election of the reformist president Mohammad Khatami.
However, Iranian president Muhammad Khatami had strongly opposed the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia in 1999 and condemned NATO harshly.
List of ministers See also Cabinet of Iran Government of Iran Industry of Iran Economy of Iran References External links Official Website
Azra Jafari (Dari: عذرا جعفری; born 1978 or 1979) is an Afghan politician and women's rights advocate who became the first female mayor in Afghanistan appointed by President Hamid Karzai in December 2008.
Professor Fereydoun Ala is the founder of the "Iranian Blood Transfusion Organization" and it can be said that he is the most experienced employee of the Blood Transfusion Organization.
It was the first time since Iraq's 1991 missile strikes that Israel was directly attacked by a state force.
Hoveyda was the minister of finance in the previous cabinet, and it was his first premiership which would last until 1977.
The Central Bank has developed the Real Time Gross Settlement System (SATNA) as the main center for settlement of Iranian banks' transactions in rial.
In such circumstances, it was natural to try to take into account both Islamic considerations and national interests.
The 1979 Constitution designated the supreme leader as the head of state and the president and prime minister as the heads of government.
The Ministry of Agriculture Jihad (Persian: وزارت جهاد کشاورزی Vezārat-e Jehād-e Kešâvarzi) is an Iranian government body established in 2001 responsible for the oversight of Agriculture in Iran.
In a video clip featuring the image of the former leader of the Lebanese Hezbollah group Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah, Abbas Shield Martyrdom Forces, Ya Ali Popular Formations and the Kataib Sarkhat al-Quds have threatened to take action in Syria and against the United States.
Cuba–Iran relations, which are characterized by economic and diplomatic cooperation, are quite friendly.
The pilot was shot in mid-air parachuting toward land by Syrian Turkmen rebels under Syrian Turkmen Brigades.
According to him, the strategy of Look to the East causes Iranian to pay a lot of financial ransom to the countries of the East for playing as broker in the world market.
Other historians, such as Hugh Kennedy, emphasize their role as a military aristocracy that evolved from the Abbasid revolutionary coalition into a hereditary elite.
The torch was passed from the old war heroes to younger educated technocrats to carry out the "White Revolution" and an explosive decade of growth.
Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (ASIO) director Mike Burgess said he believes Iran was also responsible for more antisemitic attacks in the country.
Under President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani in 1989, the two ministries were merged into one in order to cease parallel work and reduce interservice rivalry.
In Mashhad he became familiar with local clerics who were associated with the millenarian Shaykhí denomination of Shia Islam and was attracted to Shaykhí doctrine.
Stephanie Cronin of the University of Oxford describes corruption under the rule of Reza Shah as "large-scale".
It works mainly with Iranian corporations and government departments and Ministry of Defense, Ministry of Industry, and Iranian Armed Forces.
Behrooz Moazami also argues that it was one of the cabinets which did not follow the political agenda of the Shah in addition to the cabinets of Mohammad Mosaddegh and those of Ahmad Qavam in the Pahlavi rule.
After completing his preparatory studies at the same school, he studied the levels of rational and traditional sciences.
There was some debate about whether the aim of the boycott was to oppose segregation in sport or apartheid in general, with the latter view prevailing in later decades.
The organisers of the 1980 and 1984 Paralympics acceded to their governments' demands not to invite South Africa, but through to 1983 it continued to compete in the non-Paralympic ISMGs at Stoke Mandeville.
Irsan was given a warning and allowed to leave after he stated he was trying to get a drink to deal with a diabetic condition.
The National Front of Iran had announced in a statement on December 29, 1978 that if Bakhtiar accepted the post of Prime Minister of Iran, he would be expelled from the party.
These groups, all of them espousing Anti-Zionism, are known to attack Israeli civilians within Israeli territory and are known to use terrorism.
The premiership of Mohammad Mosaddegh began when his first government was formed on 28 April 1951 and ended on 19 August 1953, when his second government was overthrown by the American–British backed coup d'état.
Iranian social media was also united "in saying Erdoğan must refer to Iran's history, which spans thousands of years, before supporting separation." On 11 December, Iranian foreign minister Javad Zarif stated on Twitter: Pres.
Coastal Shield Brigade (Arabic: لواء درع الساحل, romanized: Liwāʼ Dirʻ al-Sāḥil) is a Syrian Assadist militant organization formed in January 2015.
See also Iranian Cultural Revolution Politics of Iran Iranian Revolution General Culture Council (Iran) Supreme Leader Representation in Universities (organization) External links Official website of Supreme Council of the Cultural Revolution == References ==
The legal profession According to Banakar and Ziaee, the history of the Iranian Bar Association (Kānūn-e Vūkalā-yeh Dādgūstarī) "can be traced back to the period after the 1906 Constitutional Revolution, when a modern legal system was established in Iran.
The National Front was led by Mohammed Mossadegh, who became prime minister within two months of Razmara's assassination.
This was "widely interpreted" (according to Radio Farda) as an invitation to his supporters to attack the non-hardline government of Hassan Rouhani.
In accordance with the instructions of the late Ruhollah Khomeini, one must not overrule the approved issues of this council.
Even though the battles were bloody and Swedish officers were at serious risk in Persia, many decided to join the gendarmes attracted by better pay and opportunities than in Sweden.
Following a second incident on June 17 in the Gulf of Oman in which two oil tankers caught fire after allegedly being attacked by limpet mines or by flying objects, the U.S.
Such reporting has allowed Al Alam to promote a pan-Muslim image in order to downplay the Shia-Sunni sectarian conflict during the height of Operation Iraqi Freedom.
The main functions of OPCP are: protecting and promoting domestic production; protecting consumers against unusual price fluctuations; monitoring, adjusting and controlling the price of products and services; The Government Trading Company (GTC) The GTC is affiliated to the Ministry of Commerce.
Some of the outstanding features of the complex are as follows: Affiliation of the complex to the shrine of Imam Reza Manuscripts of very long life, artifacts and museum objects, dating back 1000 years.
Recruitment of foreign militias The presence of state-sponsored foreign militias, namely the Iraqi Popular Mobilisation Forces, Arabic-speaking mercenaries, Lebanese Hezbollah, the Pakistani Liwa Zainabiyoun, and the Afghan Liwa Fatemiyoun, in suppressing protests was reported.
A few Persian love poems and texts from prominent medieval Persian poet Saadi Shirazi's Bustan and Gulistan have also been interpreted as homoerotic poems.
Mehr publishes all content on its website under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license.
The money would be used to aid "families of the martyrs, veterans, the missing, prisoners of war and the downtrodden." According to Reuters, one of the three co-founders of Setad, Mehdi Karoubi, wrote in 2009 that the organization was intended "to operate for no more than two years".
He deliberately returned just before the end of the 14th term, and expressed his regret for lack of time with "sardonic humor", in the last parliamentary session, when his ministers were approved.
The NOPO acronym had been claimed to be an acronym for "Wilayat Guardian Special Force" (Persian: نیروی ویژه پاسدار ولایت, romanized: Nīrū-yi Vizhe-yi Pāsdār-i Vilāyat) by reformist media in late 1990s; the association was denied.
He graduated as a doctor in 1915, the same year as the city's population was violently massacred by the Ottoman Empire during the Armenian genocide.
In February 2018, the brigade was involved in the Battle of Khasham along with Russian Wagner Group and Interbrigades against the US special forces and the US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces and lost many fighters.
The Qare'a (disposable) rocket launcher (Persian: راکت‌انداز یکبارمصرف قارعه) is an Iranian lightweight composite material disposable rocket launcher which has been designed in order to target fortifications.
As distinct from the UNESCO Convention, the UNIDROIT Convention focuses on the recovery of cultural property.
Many groups have later claimed to be the Baluchi Autonomist Movement's successors, including Jundallah (Iran), Hizbul Furqan, Jaish al-Adl, Ansar Al-Furqan.
18th of August 2016 PDKI and Iran clashed in the city of Shno On 7 September 2016, according to KDP-I statement, at least 2 KDP-I members were killed in an ambush by Iranian border guards near Sardasht.
In response, the UAE's Foreign Ministry summoned Iran's chargé d'affaires on 16 August and criticized Rouhani's speech as "unacceptable and inflammatory" which could impact the security scenario of the Gulf.
He claimed that his goal was to "improve conditions for ethnic Baluchis", and that his group was "fighting exclusively for the rights of Sunni Muslims in Iran".
However, one Georgian chronicle says he was a friend of equity, trustful in his language, a deep thinker, and profound in counsel.
Many were relocated to Iraq, particularly to the newly founded capital of Baghdad under Caliph al-Mansur, where they became known as the abnāʾ al-dawla.
It set a timetable starting in 2006 for negotiations to establish emission reduction commitments for a second commitment period.
He also ordered the crackdown on the revolt of Colonel Pessian which he crushed with the aid of Reza Pahlavi.
Sciences and arts and the most advanced results of human experience, together with the effort to advance them further; 3.Negation of all forms of oppression, both the infliction of and the submission to it, and of dominance, both its imposition and its acceptance.
List of controlled psychotropic substances Source: INCB Green List (28th Edition, 2017) Statistics All Schedules consist of 174 positions and common generalization clause for salts.
Tafazzoli was close to Ashraf Pahlavi and Abdolhossein Hazhir and was trusted by the Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi.
In Japan, the incident front-page news, reported as an unarmed private company picking a fight with the Royal Navy, which boasted the second largest naval force in the world at the time.
The Iran agreement has come despite determined hostility from conservatives within the United States, Israel, Saudi Arabia, the Gulf states, and Iran.
Market traders were influential during the 1979 Islamic Revolution, helping to mobilise public support that ultimately led to the overthrow of the monarchy.
History Islamic Republic of Iran Following the Iranian Revolution of 1979, the Senate of Iran was abolished and effectively succeeded by the Guardian Council, maintaining the bicameral structure of the Iranian legislature.
He held the governorship of Bushehr and Southern Ports and Ommanat in several periods until shortly after World War I.
This would be the first time that official armed units of sovereign states are included in a list of banned terrorist groups.
A large Mongol army led by Arghun Aqa invaded Georgia from the south, inflicted a heavy defeat on David and Sargis I Jaqeli in a battle near Akhaldaba, and then brutally plundered the country.
The Presidential Administration of Iran (Persian: نهاد ریاست‌جمهوری ایران), including the Office of the President of Iran, consists of the immediate staff of the President of Iran and multiple levels of support staff reporting to the President.
Cook writes that "according to a thirteenth-century geographer, a custom was observed each year in Gilan in the north of Iran, [whereby] scholars would seek permission from the ruler to command right.
Subordinate of General Staff of Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran, the university is dedicated to doctoral-level work on military doctrine, applied defense sciences and management.
The Shah's statement The amendment conclude with the following statements from the Shah: "In the Name of God, blessed and exalted is He." "The complementary provisions of the Fundamental Code of Laws have been perused and are correct.
He was also Minister of Interior in Hassan Rouhani's government and the president of the Supreme Audit Court from 2008 to 2013.
In 2011, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad made a speech at the United Nations General Assembly during which he said that the only correct name of the sea between Iran and the Arabian peninsula was the Persian Gulf, and he dismissed the use of any other names as "illegitimate and void".
In the resolution, Iran was banned from transferring, importing, and exporting arms, sensitive nuclear material and equipment, and missiles or missile systems for the duration specified.
In exchange, Iran imported 130 tonnes of uranium ore in 2015 and in late 2016 was approved to import 130 tonnes in 2017.
Mauritania: Mauritania expressed its "firm condemnation and denunciation of this aggression", claiming it undermines the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Qatar and expressing "full solidarity" with the State of Qatar, its leaders and its people.
The Asia and Pacific region's aggregate emissions were 7.9 billion tonnes, with per capita emissions of 2.6 tonnes.
Officials at the voting booth in favor of the motion reportedly did not check identity cards or stamp voter's hands to indicate having submitted a ballot, leading to accusations of voter fraud.
In 1967, the club evolved into the Game Council, and just four years later, in 1971, the modern Department of Environment was established.
Career In the post World War II era, Mansour started his political career by entering the foreign ministry and completed several internal and foreign assignments including tours of Germany and France.
Bahār became an active member of the Mashhad branch of Anjoman-e Sa'ādat (Society for Prosperity) that campaigned for establishment of Parliament of Iran (Majles).
The Coalition said: "there is no way for us to accept a non-balanced dialogue that lacks all guarantees, we see this dialogue as a media tool which the regime aims to reduce the severity of popular and international pressures".
Although the 1906 Constitution established a bicameral legislature, the Majles remained the only (unicameral) legislative chamber until the 1949 Constituent Assembly, in which the Senate of Iran was formed as the upper house, making the Majles the lower house.
Hamid Mowlana (Persian: حمید مولانا, Hamid Molana, born in Tabriz, East Azerbaijan, Iran) is an Iranian-American author and academic.
List of ministers The cabinet was consisted of the following sixteen members: Reshuffles and next cabinet Minister of Agriculture Hasan Arsanjani resigned from the office on 9 March 1963 and was replaced by Ismail Riahi.
Coordination of political activities, intelligence, social, cultural and economic fields relating to general policies of defense and national security.
Most recently, the form xšāyaθiya has been analyzed as a genuine, inherited Persian formation with the meaning 'pertaining to reigning, ruling'.
Between 1998 and 2002, Iran imported approximately 6 JY-14 surveillance radars from the China National Electronics Import-Export Corporation.
The Cooperative Foundation of the Revolutionary Guards) is a Bonyad in Iran, under control of Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
In early September 2017, large protests erupted in Kurdish cities in West Iran following the killing of two Kurdish men by Iranian security forces at the border.
That is why the castle was built on the highest point of the city of Khorramabad, so that the wind could penetrate the building and dry its foundations.
Al-Mustafa International University created a website with the letter and translation in various languages along with feedback and reactions from youth in different countries.
Parties to the convention have agreed to a process by which persistent toxic compounds can be reviewed and added to the convention, if they meet certain criteria for persistence and transboundary threat.
Involvement in governance and civil affairs Prior to the collapse of the Assad regime, the militia also took part in civil politics.
Education Ayatollah Ja'far Sobhani learned Arabic literature, Principles of Islamic jurisprudence in the Islamic Seminary.
Compiled by Ahad Gudarziani, the book was published by Sureh Mehr Publication, and the title comes from the opening sentence of a letter.
Iranian judiciary refuted the allegations, stating Soltani was charged with "colluding against national security" and "propaganda activities against the establishment," offenses which are not punishable by the death penalty in Iran.
He has also served as a visiting professor or guest scholar in Africa, Asia, Europe, and Latin America.
sanctions, especially after Iran's production of near-weapons-grade uranium and reduced cooperation with inspectors.
The activities of the GTC regarding the procurement of essential commodities are regulated by the statute "the Government Procurement Concerning the Supply of Basic Products and Foodstuffs Essential to the Public from Foreign Sources".
He also stated that the actions of the United States were "plung[ing] humanity into a crisis with irreversible consequences." See also Foreign relations of Cuba Foreign relations of Iran == References ==
Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama announced on 7 September 2022 that Albania would cut diplomatic relations with Iran in retaliation for a major cyber attack by Iran on the country.
The nature of this thinking - the export of the revolution - is the negation of oppression and tyranny and the denial of silence and passive attitude.
See also List of prime ministers of Iran Prime Minister of Iran Sepahsalar Mosque References The Cambridge History of Iran 7; Peter Avery; Cambridge University Press, 1991 The History of Iran (The Greenwood Histories of the Modern Nations); Elton L.
Assistance in providing the country's construction materials through production, supply, distribution.
External links Iran's 1906 Constitution and Its Supplement Constitution of Iran, 1906 (in Persian) Constitutional Revolution from Iran Chamber Society
On September 03, 2020, Iranian Defense Minister Brigadier General Amir Hatami said his country is capable of manufacturing more than 38,000 military equipment and hardware parts.
Khomeini demanded all armed groups to become part of one revolutionary organization and requested that Kurdish soldiers "return" their weapons.
Mohammad Ali Varasteh, Abdollah Entezam and Ala personally expressed their concerns about Shah's policies and their potential results which made all of them outsiders in the court of the Shah.
List of ministers The cabinet was consisted of the following ten members: Reshuffles The cabinet saw several reshuffles.
This is a list of foreign heads of state, heads of government who have visited the Iran, which is classified by the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs as either a state visit, official visit, or working visit.
In January 1922, he went to Moscow as a state representative to negotiate a friendship agreement, remaining there for one and a half years.
Certain western countries that unlawfully possess nuclear weapons want to keep the monopoly of nuclear fuel production for themselves.
The Kurds also had a three-man delegation: Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou, his aide Abdullah Ghaderi Azar (a member of the PDKI Central Committee) and Fadhil Rassoul, an Iraqi Kurdish university professor who had acted as a mediator.
On 6 May 2011, it was reported that Ahmadinejad had been given an ultimatum to accept the leader's intervention or resign, and on 8 May he "apparently bowed" to the reinstatement, welcoming back Moslehi to a cabinet meeting.
Mohammad Hossein's son, Mohammad Ibrahim Khan Nazir ol-Dowleh, married one of the Fath Ali Shah's daughters (Khadijeh Soltan Begom, "Esmat-ed-Dowleh) and Khan's daughter married Hossein Ali Mirza Farmanfarma, governor of Shiraz.
Staff testing body temperatures prior to the meeting requested Amirabadi and two other members of parliament to excuse themselves from the meeting and self-quarantine.
Javad Hajizadeh Koljahi (Persian: جواد حاجی زاده کلجاهی (born in 1958 in Kalahjah) is a Shiite cleric and Friday prayer leader of Maragheh who was elected as a representative of East Azerbaijan Province in the sixth session of the Assembly of Experts by winning 198,687 votes.
Following several years of development, the convention was adopted by the International Maritime Organization in 2004.
He was discharged in January 1907 after Mohammad Ali Shah Qajar came to power, but was reinstated in August 1907.
The IRGC is officially recognized as a component of the Iranian military under Article 150 of the Iranian Constitution.
The plan is designed to meet the requirements for compliance with the Convention and the G4 Guidelines produced by the IMO.
This included efforts to restrict Iran's oil export bringing it down to zero, as well as intensify sanctions, essentially reviving the hard line approach from his first administration.
While often characterized as a "pragmatic conservative" in foreign policy, his domestic record was marked by the oversight of significant crackdowns on civil unrest.
Mohammad Movahedi Azad, Iran's attorney general, warned that protesters are an "enemy of God", a crime punishable by death under Iranian law.
This regulatory organization has the power to issue a warning to doctors as well as certain allied health workers, suspend and even revoke their license to practice.
The original factory, built by the US Textron company, was to produce Bell 214s of different configurations in Iran with a deal that involved several hundred helicopters and technology transfers.
Then, at the same time as the US embassy in Tehran was captured, the US consulate in Tabriz was also occupied by the revolutionary invaders.
The cabinet led by Hossein Ala' was formed on 20 March 1951 two weeks after the assassination of Prime Minister Haj Ali Razmara.
Khorram was the Minister of Roads and Transportation under President Mohammad Khatami, until 3 October 2004, when he was impeached by the Majlis of Iran by 188 votes out of 258 present members of the parliament.
Many served as: Provincial governors Military commanders كبار court officials Prominent families of Khurasani origin became influential in Baghdad politics.
Benefits and services The organization administers statutory benefits including old-age pensions, disability and survivor pensions, unemployment insurance, workplace injury compensation, and health insurance coverage through affiliated medical facilities.
The institute was established in 1997 under the supervision of the Presidential Administration of Iran.
While awaiting execution, Barak was interviewed by several journalists about his crimes, during which he continued to proclaim that he had acted out of his own accord and gave accurate details of each crime scene.
It is a smoothbore and barrel-loading mortar with 360° field of firing and can be taken apart and carried by infantry.
Rawzat al-Montaha fi Mawled al-Imam al-Shafi'i References Bibliography Brown, Jonathan (30 September 2007).
Mahsa Amini protests Since September 2022, when the death of Mahsa Amini incited protests across the country, the prison has served both as a holding place for arrested protesters and as a site of protest against the execution of prisoners.
The constitution stipulated that all Prime Minister must be subject to a vote in parliament for both approval and removal.
A tablet was addressed by the Báb to each of the Letters of the Living, including Bastámí; no translation of this tablet into English exists at present.
With nine research groups in various fields of meteorology, this research institute conducts studies and researches related to pure meteorological science and recognizes, expands and presents their applications.
The missile is named after Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis, an Iraqi companion of Qasem Soleimani who was killed in an American airstrike in 2020.
According to Kurdish human rights activists in Iranian Kurdistan, Iranian security forces killed two civilians, who were working as porters, overnight on 27 June in Alan area of Sardasht city, West Azerbaijan province of Iran, on the border between Iran and Kurdistan Region.
Personal life In 1894, Iskandar married Maryam Davidkhanian, the daughter of another General, Martiros Khan Davidkhanian.
Anti-American activities According to the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, Vahidi's time at the IRGC is "replete with efforts to kill Americans" coinciding with threats from Tehran toward US personnel.
History After the 2003 Invasion of Iraq, ex-Badr commander Abu Mustafa al-Sheibani set up his own logistics, arms, and financing network using his connections with the Badr Organisation, which he also supplied.
May 2003: Three people killed and eighty-three injured in a suicide bombing at a shopping mall in Afula.
Organization According to available sources, the group's leader was Youssef Al-Hamdan, also known as Abu Issa Al-Masshadani.
Bournoutian mentions that this work "not only exposes multiple falsifications but also, based on a thorough research of Nizami's works, proves that Nizami was without doubt an Iranian poet".
The National Organization for Passive Defense (Persian: سازمان پدافند غیر عامل کشور) is an Iranian government bureau for civil defense in the country.
It was also seen as a way to improve the economies and accessibility of landlocked countries like Laos, Afghanistan, Mongolia, and the Central Asian republics.
Bill Data Corporations are required by law to safeguard Iranian users' private data; though it also requires National Information Network's "sanitation", prevention, countering and detection of cyber crime and obeying courts and Iranian judicial system orders'.
The ministry was finally founded on 18 August 1983, either abandoning, silently subsuming, or relegating to hidden existence many small intelligence agencies that had been formed in different governmental organizations.
It also caused significant opposition against him led by Atesh and its editor Mehdi Mir Ashrafi and Mard-i Imruz and its editor Mohammad Masud who publicly argued that Qavam should be killed due to the oil deal with the Soviets.
He has been described as a "chain smoker" and having a "gaunt face with a serious demeanor." Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini described him "Abu Dhar al-Ghifari in the time" in the message on the occasion of his death: "He was for Islam, Abuzar of the time.
He was secretary of the Expediency Discernment Council from 1997 to 2021 and Vice President of Iran for Economic Affairs between 2021 and 2023.
According to this theory, the Islamic world is a single nation and the criterion for the unity of the nation is its leadership.
The Convention set out the rights and obligations of the parties, including the waters, water bed, subsoil, natural resources, and airspace above the sea.
He received a vote of confidence from the 11th convocation of the Islamic Consultative Assembly (Iranian parliament) on June 23, 2021, with 187 votes in favor, 58 votes against, 8 abstentions and 2 invalid votes.
'Great Army Leader'), is the ultimate authority of all the Islamic Republic of Iran Armed Forces, and the highest possible military position within the Islamic Republic of Iran.
In 1995, after receiving a definite license for its first research institute called "Meteorological Research Institute", it officially started working.
Ahmadinejad has said he respects Jews and that "in Palestine there are Muslims, Christians and Jews who live together".
She campaigned for women's suffrage from within the Women's Organization, giving public lectures and writing on the subject.
the developing countries of Asia and South America) to suppress illicit supply, but also the duty of consumer countries (e.g.
shipping in the Persian Gulf will be Iran's first targets and they will be burned." In the last week of July, in Operation Brimstone, dozens of U.S., and naval ships from other countries, came to undertake joint exercises for possible military activity in the shallow waters off the coast of Iran.
On 21 August, the Islamic Consultative Assembly approved the nomination of Pezeshkian's entire cabinet, the first time it had done since 2001.
He was a hardliner administrator and banned some of the newspapers which had been published in the region.
It was decided that the Banknote and Coin Production Organization, in coordination with the Vision Document Preservation Commission at the council's secretariat, would use the Vision Document symbol for the coinage design.
Reza Marashi, research director of the National Iranian American Council, called Trump's statement "a vile response to grieving Iranians" and asked what would happen if Iranians claimed that the U.S.
The administrative divisions of Iran are arranged in four levels, the first level of which is the province (Persian: استان‌: ostān).
According to estimates published by the Statistical Center of Iran in the 1990s, more than 70 percent of the population was covered by at least one form of social insurance.
The PMF is led by Hadi al-Amiri and Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis, two Badr Organization leaders with ties το Iran since the 1980s.
These prohibited exports of key British commodities, including sugar and blocked Iran's access to its hard currency accounts in British banks.
The meeting During the related meeting, the Islamic Council's representatives reached a consensus with 211 votes in favor, 6 votes against, and one abstention, approving an immediate legal strategy to counter the adventurous and terrorist actions of the United States in the region.
Despite these efforts, relations during the 1990s were overshadowed by domestic politics and resulted in a period of distancing between the two countries.
"Chain" assassinations In late 1998, three dissident writers, a political leader and his wife were killed in Iran in the span of two months.
Qatar: The government welcomed the agreement as a "significant step" toward enhancing regional peace and stability.
The organization has been criticized for imposing extreme censorship and establishing online content monopoly.
Direct identity laundering refers to the creation of a new legitimate ship identity by registering an unclean vessel under a new clean identity.
1952–53: Reforms under Mossadegh When Mohammad Mossadegh took over the ministry on 21 July 1952, he initiated a series of reforms in the ministry.
Isfahan Central Prison, also called Dastgerd Prison, is a prison in south Isfahan, Isfahan province, Iran, on the Zobahan freeway.
The 5,750 miles (9,250 km) Trans-Siberian Railway covers much of this route and currently carries large amounts of freight from East Asia to Moscow and on to the rest of Europe.
Manucher Ghorbanifar (Persian: منوچهر قربانی‌فر, nicknamed Gorba; born May 9, 1945) is an expatriate Iranian arms dealer and former SAVAK agent.
The combat capabilities of the "Popular Resistance" remained unclear; the group's first video showed just a few masked men with guns.
According to a Quinnipiac poll taken 30 July – 4 August 43% of New York City voters oppose the agreement, while 36% support it; 42% said that the agreement would make the world less safe, while 40% said it will make the world more safe.
Career Ayat was a member of Zahmatkeshan Party before the Iranian Revolution but resigned from the party.
CASMII member Abbas Edalat was not satisfied with the apology, stating "We do not accept that because a story is at an 'early stage' misleading reports are therefore acceptable.
Iran has implemented the Additional Protocol and developed commercial nuclear power under strict International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards using a fuel leasing approach with fuel supplied by Russia and spent fuel returned to Russia." A 2009 U.S.
He took the position on 28 July, after the presidential election that was held in Iran in June–July 2024.
Yet, the working conditions, despite the legislation, were entirely at the whim of enterprise owners because the laws were not enforced, and the Labor Ministry was weak.
Dossa replied he did not know Holocaust deniers would be in attendance, that he has "never denied the Holocaust, only noted its propaganda power", and that the university should respect his academic freedom to participate.
See also Council for Spreading Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's Thoughts References External links Media related to Gholam-Hossein Elham at Wikimedia Commons Official website
Marzieh Vahid-Dastjerdi won approval as health minister, making her Iran's first woman minister since the Islamic revolution.
Alternatives to stoning Makarem's fatwa concerning stoning to death for adultery reads: "In certain circumstances, death by stoning can be replaced by other methods of punishment".
They are also said to be responsible for a roadside bombing which killed 3 British soldiers in July 2005 in al-Amarah and an attack in August 2005 against an embassy convoy in Basra which killed 3 British bodyguards.
secretary of state Mike Pompeo issued a statement accusing Iran of the attacks, Iran denied this calling it a false-flag attack.
The voting was held on 15 August and three of the eighteen nominees were not approved by the Majlis, those proposed to head the ministries of education, science, research and technology; and sports and youth.
According to the sixth five-year development plan (2016–2021), the subsidy reform plan is to continue until 2021.
Description Mostaan 110 is a series of smaller devices, though the main device appears to be a wired handheld device slightly resembling a power drill, featuring a long forward-facing metal antenna mounted to the top.
To this day there is a protected zone around the monastery administered by the Egyptian government, and there are very good relations between the 20 or so monks, mainly from Greece, and the local community there.
Jaleh's Basiji Identification Card was issued after his death with the help of his cousin, who works for the Ministry of Information.
People born in Iran of a father of foreign nationality who have resided at least one more year in Iran immediately after reaching the full age of 18; in other cases their naturalization as Iranian subjects will be subject to the stipulations for Iranian naturalization laid down by the law.
His presidential decree was signed on July 28, 2024, by the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Ali Khamenei, and his government formally started its work.
Zayanderud Drying - The river that once flowed through the heart of Isfahan is now dry most of the year.
Next, servants who are being paid by an employer to perform specific tasks, but do not have full control of their work, and act upon the employer's instructions and orders.
The revolutionary movement drew support from diverse groups, including Arab tribal factions, dehqāns (Iranian landed elites), and urban populations.
As Mokhber, the chief of Execution of Imam Khomeini's Order nominated, the activities which be performed by the Charity relies on people's help.
Progress of destruction On 7 July 2023, the OPCW announced that all 72,304.34 metric tonnes of declared chemical agent had been verifiably destroyed.
Already in 697, the transition from Persian to Arabic in the Iraqi bureaucracy had been carried out by Salih ibn Abd al-Rahman under Abd al-Malik's governor al-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf and possibly served as a model for Sulayman to emulate.
Masih Alinejad – Iranian agents have been accused of multiple plots to kidnap or assassinate Iranian-American journalist Masih Alinejad in New York.
Additional palaces were constructed in its vicinity for his siblings Shams (north, directly above), Ashraf (south, across the street) and Abdol Reza (east, across the street).
Background Premiership of Abdolhossein Hazhir was approved by 66 deputies out of 120 Parliament members on 13 June 1948.
As a matter of international law, no plants (natural material) containing psilocine and psilocybin are at present controlled under the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971.
At present, the location of this consulate on "Shariati Street" in Tabriz has been turned into an "Reception Hall and Restaurant" owned by the Police Command of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
That is a clear majority of the 192 countries comprising the entire United Nations, which comprise 55% of the world population.
Atturaya was promoted to the head of a military hospital in Georgia during World War I and eventually attained the position of "Chief Medical Officer for the Northern and Southern Caucasian Railways".
Separate from the precursors, the convention defines toxic chemicals as "[a]ny chemical which through its chemical action on life processes can cause death, temporary incapacitation or permanent harm to humans or animals.
Here, he was able to take part in classes of teachers such as Ayatollah Muhsin al-Hakim, Ayatollah Abul-Qassim Khoei and Ayatollah Abdul Hadi ash-Shirazi.
Mostowfi had several children including a son, Mirza Yousof Mostowfi al-Mamalek II, who may have been named after his father.
The protestors delivered a memorandum calling the government to take solid measures against the occupation of Palestine to the Parliament.
One of the most vicious crimes has been committed and we didn't get the opportunity to hear a person of much interest for the investigation [...] When we see what they [SÄPO] have withhold from us, it feels very unsatisfactory".
Mohammad Khamenei was appointed as president of foundation by the decree of the then president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in July 2013.
It was signed in 1992 by 154 states at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED), informally known as the Earth Summit, held in Rio de Janeiro.
After World War II, the first meteorological observatories were established in Iran by the Allies in 1948.
He was arrested and sentenced to death by an Islamic revolutionary tribunal shortly after the Iranian Revolution for charges including corruption, contacts with Israel and Zionism, and "friendship with the enemies of God", and was executed by firing squad on 9 May 1979 in Tehran, Iran.
It is highly crowded prison, and there are plans to replace it with a new prison located outside the city.
On 17 January, another protester, 19-year-old Amirhossein Ghaderzadeh, was sentenced to death by hanging, with his execution scheduled for 21 January.
He also expressed appreciation for the Sri Lankan government’s hospitality and humanitarian assistance provided to the surviving crew and cadets.
The Mothers' campaign included public gatherings and written statements to authorities like including UN Secretary-General Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, and an unsuccessful attempt to meet with UN Special Rapporteur Galindo Pohl about the state of human rights in Iran.
He also criticizes the views of people – such as Abdolkarim Soroush – who say that while there is a society, or civilization, of Muslims, there is no such thing as an Islamic society or civilization and that Islam is a spiritual and individual way of life, not an ideology.
Economist Fariborz Raiis-Dana said that the decision dealt the coup de grâce to the structure of the national management organization.
In another, a Bahraini subsidiary of Vitol bought 2 million barrels of oil in a ship-to-ship transfer off the Malaysian port of Tanjung Pelepas.
During the Afghan civil war of the 1990s, Jafari fled to Iran as a refugee, where she completed high school and subsequently ran a school for refugee children.
Zahra Shojaie / Shojaei (Persian: زهرا شجاعی; 24 June 1956 – 26 March 2024) was an Iranian politician.
Circulated video footage showed a protester lying in the street in Qom with severe chest and arm injuries; the video was widely shared and described as showing a protester killed by a grenade.
During the Islamic Revolution he became chairman of the "secretive" Revolutionary Council, Iran's chief ruling body – a fact not revealed until his death.
Aircraft American aircraft types were acquired in the 1960s and 1970, with European made aircraft comprising the more modern part of the fleet.
In 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, the Syndicate went on strike periodically, protesting unfulfilled promises made by officials.
Following these initial trips to London, Set Khan took several additional trips to England in an ambassadorial capacity.
He reiterated that the enrichment was performed for purely civil power purposes and not for weapons purposes.
In the meantime, Iran gave assurances that it would reinstall monitoring equipment at sensitive locations.
(Persian: سازمان پژوهش‌های نوین دفاعی, romanized: Sazman-e Pazhouheshhaye Novin-e Defa’i and abbreviated سازمان سپند) is a research and development agency of Iran's Ministry of Defence responsible for the development of emerging technologies for use by the military.
According to Bosworth, sarhangs were separate from ayyars, and were probably fighters with outstanding leadership or fighting qualities that were recruited from the latter.
Some scholars (Hasan al-Basri, Abdullah ibn Shubruma d.761) have argued that forbidding wrong is to be encouraged but not an obligation.
2007 January 15, 2007: Ardeshir Hosseinpour, an Iranian junior scientist involved in The Uranium Conversion Facility at Isfahan, dies, reportedly due to "gassing".
In an attempt to make its military industries more sustainable Iran has also sought to export its military products.
Idemitsu Kosan Kabushiki Kaisha, International Law Reports, 1 January 2021 Compensation for Expropriated Property in Recent International Law, Amir Rafat, Villanova Law Review, vol 4 no.
The experience of living in large cities shows that the interest of people from different social groups in keeping pets, including dogs, has increased, and many of the obvious things related to this interest are not observed by them.
Most sources suggest the airstrikes have been effective but not perfect in stopping the flow of sophisticated weapons to Hezbollah.
Other reforms in the 2013 code included strengthened provisions on the reduction of sentences of minors on the basis of their immaturity.
One of the most important issues related to foreign policy after the ninth government came to power was the Look to the East policy and expanding Iran's relations with Asian countries.
The meeting agreed on general principles of fisheries, protection of the Caspian Sea, and shipping from littoral countries.
He served his term as president prior to his death in a helicopter crash and, second to Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, was leading the thirteenth government of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
They originally fought in the Iraqi Abu Fadl al-Abbas Brigade and later the Afghan Liwa Fatemiyoun brigade, and only became numerous enough to warrant a distinct brigade in either late 2014 or early 2015.
Article 107 of the constitution states: the task of appointing the Leader shall be vested with the experts elected by the people.
See also Commission of National-Security and Foreign-Policy (of Islamic Parliament of I.R.Iran) Foreign relations of Iran Politics of Iran References External links Media related to Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iran at Wikimedia Commons
At the funeral on 23 March, Ali Khamenei described Reyshahri as "a benevolent person who served the people" and "always a source of blessings".
It can be described as a broad based agreement as it settled just about every kind of German debt arising from the period before and after the Second World War.
On 21 November 2011, he was handcuffed in a raid on his office in Tehran, in which tear gas was used.
Ebrahim Hakimi (Persian: ابراهیم حکیمی; 1869 – 19 October 1959) was an Iranian politician and statesman who served as Prime Minister of Iran on three occasions.
In the early 1970s, he was appointed by the Shah of Iran to lead the newly formed Atomic Energy Organization of Iran (AEOI) in Tehran.
History There is no information about the exact date of the establishment of the library of Asta- Quds - Razvi.
The channel is one of the newer television channels in Iran and was launched on 17 September 2013 as a test airing only in Tehran, which officially established on 7 May 2014 and began airing nationally on 24 December 2014.
The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank was established in 2015 and has substituted the proposed role of the SCO Development Bank to fund infrastructure projects in the region.
Critics also complained that the judges were biased, unfair, too rigid, used the death sentence much too often, and applied the death penalty to undeserving people.
The event marked the beginning of the guerrilla era in Iran for most historians — an era which ended with the Islamic Revolution.
The owners of the property are then pressured "to buy the property back or pay huge fees to recover them".
Soleimani played a role in advising Hezbollah for its defense from Israel in the 2006 Lebanon War and at least once accompanied Imad Mughniyeh.
The Plan and Budget Organization (PBO), formerly known as the Management and Planning Organization (MPO), is one of the largest governmental establishments in Iran.
He first served in the cabinet led by Prime Minister Ali Amini and succeeded Ahmad Ali Bahrami in the post.
The purpose was the promotion of livestock development in general and national and international research and action with respect to animal health and husbandry problems in Asia, and Far East and the South-West Pacific.
Iranian military bands (Persian: گروههای نظامی ایران) refer to musical units that serve in ceremonial roles in the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and the Islamic Republic of Iran Army.
Sanctions The US Treasury Department put sanctions on Fattah in December 2010 due to his activities in the Bonyad Taavon Sepah that provides services to the IRGC.
Living quarters are disinfected daily, and any suspected cases of COVID-19 are quarantined in a recovery center.
He later assumed the posts of the permanent secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and deputy foreign minister.
In these courts, except for a number of rulings which are definitive by law, other decisions can be re-examined.
Early life According to Rashid al-Din, when he was young, his father sold his son Arghun to Qadan of the Jalayir, tutor of Ögedei who passed him to his son Ilüge, while according to Juvayni his father was a mingghan commander.
Still, Iran was at the time unable to construct a nationwide, integrated air defense network, and continued to rely on point defense of key locations with surface-to-air missile batteries.
Fallahzadeh was listed for his involvement in “hostile activity by an armed group backed by the Government of Iran,” including threats to other nations’ security.
During this period, Alexander also spent time at the Soviet embassy in Tehran since diplomatic relations had been restored in 1920, maintaining friendships with the Ambassador and other members of the Soviet diplomatic mission.
The total gold reserves of the two cities of Sush and Persepolis in Alexander's invasion of Iran are estimated at one billion and eight hundred million gold francs.
federal court against the Islamic Republic of Iran, and obtained a judgments against Iran for its role in the 1983 Beirut barracks bombings (in which 241 U.S.
At the second congress same as the first one, scholars of more than 80 countries received invitations and about one thousand people participated.
Sadiq Ardashir Larijani (born 12 March 1961) is an Iranian cleric and politician who currently serves as the chairman of Expediency Discernment Council since 2018.
Electoral history Personal life According to Iranian Diplomacy, Mirsalim is married to an Iranian woman.
Overview The term was coined in 2004 by King Abdullah II of Jordan at a time when Iran was reportedly interfering in Iraq in the run-up to the January 2005 parliamentary elections.
Both countries strengthened their land forces along the river bank, stationing artillery, tanks and anti-aircraft weapons.
To rectify this grievance and support his community, Martiros Khan Davidkhanian built a large bathhouse behind one of his mansions for the exclusive use of the Armenians of Iran.
From September 12, 2011, his ambassadorship to Egypt, Jordan, Syria, Iran, Iraq, Yemen, Oman and Lebanon ended and he was appointed a representative to Zimbabwe.
Iran later confirmed the reports, though it denied the drones were meant to be used in the Ukraine war, and added that China was on the list of countries looking to import Iranian drones.
Its members mostly consists of tribesmen from the al-Baggara tribe that traditionally supported the rule of the al-Assad family despite being mostly Sunni Muslim.
… Especially timely given recent events throughout the Middle East, this book is recommended for anyone wishing to better understand the workings of a police state." – Kirkus Reviews.
As well, the report highlighted a culture of gatekeeping in the healthcare system, often imposing extremely long waiting periods on patients out of a belief that it would lower regret rates.
In January 2019, the Israel Defense Forces confirmed that it had carried out strikes against Iranian military targets in Syria several hours after a rocket was intercepted over the Golan Heights.
Tax evaders typically are either involved in activities in the gray sector of economy or in the underground market which they do not divulge.
In September 2007 Ahmadinejad visited New York to address the General Assembly of the United Nations.
While Baghdad reported the issue to the UN Security Council, the Arvand Rud Crisis marked a significant triumph for Iran.
This doctrine was introduced in a situation where some officials, regardless of national interests, believed that Iran should interfere in the affairs of some certain countries and should take actions.
Some protests include: Iran student protests, July 1999: Protested the closure of the reformist newspaper (Salam), and violent attack on a student dormitory by riot police.
He is also a graduate of Isfahan University of Technology in economic systems design and of Manchester University in economics.
When the platform is moved away, the condemned dies of strangulation and loss of blood to the brain.
The pro-Israel Washington Institute had estimated at least 255 casualties between 19 January 2012, and 8 March 2016.
Animal Production and Health Commission for Asia and the Pacific (APHCA) was formed by International treaty in Rome, 22 June 1973 originally through an Agreement for the Establishment of a Regional Animal Production and Health Commission for Asia, the Far East and the South-West Pacific.
These included the August 1963 Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, the January 1967 Outer Space Treaty, and the July 1968 Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
During the Anglo-Persian Oil Company dispute in 1932-1933, Entezam served as secretary to the Iranian delegation and accompanied Ali-Akbar Davar and Hossein Ala' to Geneva to present Iran's case at the League of Nations.
And there are reports that Esmaeil Bakhshi,one of the company's workers' representatives, is still arrested and there are some news of him being beaten in prison.
On 21 November 2015, Iran reportedly carried out a test of the Ghadr-110, having a range variously reported between 1500 and 2000 km.
2010 parliamentary election In the 2010 parliamentary election, the Sadrist Movement ran as part of the National Iraqi Alliance.
Following Hassan Rouhani's election as President, Bahonar was appointed by Chairman Ali Larijani as the parliament's liaison to the newly elected executive branch in transition mandate.
She sailed through shoals and mines, outwitted the Royal Navy, and broke through the naval blockade, arriving at Kawasaki Port at 9am on May 9.
Hujjat al-Islam Seyyed Mohammad Vaez Mousavi (Persian: سید محمد واعظ موسوی, was born 1964 in Shabestar, East Azerbaijan) is an Iranian Shiite cleric and politician.
Ziad Abu-Tir: senior member of the military wing was killed in an Israeli airstrike in the Khan Younis area, 29 December 2008.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Persian: وزارت امور خارجه, romanized: Vezārat-e Omūr-e Khārejeh) is an Iranian government ministry headed by the minister of foreign affairs, who is a member of cabinet.
The original Mesbah project was later on replaced by indigenous Mesbah-2 which is to be built and launched by Iran alone.
The parliament currently consists of 290 representatives, an increase from the previous 270 seats since the 18 February 2000 election.
Arne Nilsson, a retired police officer who was working on the case, said in the film: "It's terrible.
Most of the cabinet members were nationalist veterans and sympathizers of the Freedom Movement of Iran, with a few from the National Front.
Effect of the bill Radio Farda reported that Instagram (at the time unblocked in Iran) may be affected by the act.
Iraq also launched a series of relatively large-scale air and missile strikes against Iranian cities.
He offered three portfolios (Health, culture, and trade and industry) to the communists and gave the ministries of finance and communications to two royalists; while maintained his own control over interior and foreign ministries.
Khatam al-Anbiya Construction Headquarters, the IRGC's major engineering arm & one of Iran's largest contractors employing about 25,000 engineers and staff on military (70%) and non-military (30%) projects worth over $7 billion in 2006.
Sanctions When the IAEA verifies Iran's implementation of its key nuclear commitments: The EU will terminate all nuclear-related economic sanctions.
Ministers See also ارشاد, ershad, 'guidance' at Wiktionary Media of Iran Hajj and Pilgrimage Organization Islamic Culture and Communication Organization Office of Literature and Art of Resistance References Further reading "Fashion police".
See also Constitutionalization attempts in Iran 1949 Iranian Constituent Assembly 1963 Iranian referendum Constitution of Islamic Republic of Iran References and notes Further reading Massie, Eric; Afary, Janet (2019).
Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou (Kurmanji Kurdish: عەبدورەحمان قاسملۆ, Ebdurehman Qasimlo; Sorani Kurdish: عەبدوڕەحمان قاسملوو, romanized: 'Ebdur̄eḧman Qasimlû; Persian: عبدالرحمان قاسملو; 22 December 1930 – 13 July 1989) was an Iranian Kurdish politician and leader.
Antonio de Gouvea returned to Iran to mend relations between countries, but the letter he delivered from King Philip of Spain offered no military support and no diplomatic advancements were made.
One of the most prevalent issues after the conference was the question of human rights violations in the Soviet Union.
companies are prohibited from trade with Iran under unilateral sanctions, but most foreign companies are free to trade with Tehran.
Hekmat was an Iranian ambassador to India and wrote multiple books about Indian history and culture.
The agreement would enter into force (and thus become fully effective) if 55 countries that produce at least 55% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions (according to a list produced in 2015) ratify or otherwise join the treaty.
According to Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, Khomeini chose Beheshti, Motahhari, Rafsanjani, Bahonar, Mir-Hossein Mousavi and Musavi Ardabili as members.
Aftermath In 2003, Sveriges Television showed a documentary film about the case by filmmaker Oscar Hedin.
Main members of Cultural Revolution Headquarters First core of Cultural Revolution Headquarters between 1984 and 1987: Current members All the 28 members of council are selected by the supreme leader of Iran.
The current president, Masoud Pezeshkian has been in office since 28 July 2024 after winning the 2024 presidential election.
See also List of Iranian news agencies Media of Iran References External links Media related to Mehr News Agency at Wikimedia Commons Official website
Decisions by the Party of import on whether or not to accept the import of LMOs-FFP are taken under its domestic regulatory framework that is consistent with the objective of the Protocol.
Following the Armenian genocide during World War I, thousands of Armenians fled to Iran, enjoying the bathhouse as a haven and luxury from anti-Armenian sentiment.
He resigned from this position on July 24, 2018 President of the World Assembly of Silk Road Cities WASRC President of the World Assembly of Islamic Cities WAIC Education: Ph.D.
Tabriz Municipality Palace has a four-page clock tower with a height of 30.5 meters with the rhythmic resonance of its bells, every hour, it brings the passage of time to the ears of the people of Tabriz.
Foreign Ministry spokesperson Majed al-Ansari said that Qatar reserved the right to "respond directly, proportionate to the nature and scale of this blatant aggression".
During the rule of Alam Iran witnessed the acceleration of demonstrations by the religious establishment which made Ruhollah Khomeini a leader of opposition and the increase of land distribution by the state.
Reflecting the office's origin in the military, the primary responsibility of the beylerbeys and their sanjakbeys was the maintenance of the sipahi cavalry, formed by holders of the military fiefs, whom they led in person on campaign.
The archive constitutes a unique and concrete answer to the scarcity of available information in this domain, addressing in a systematic and academic manner the controversial debate revolving around the Iranian electoral process.
The president has the authority to introduce members of his cabinet to the Iranian Parliament for confirmation under the Constitution of Iran.
Among the programs of this ceremony, a number of them have been prepared and compiled in the form of a compact disc (CD), which can be obtained through the program office.
According to the Iranian government, on 23 February 2010, Rigi was aboard a flight from Dubai, United Arab Emirates to Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, travelling with a forged Afghanistan passport.
In 2012, he became Governor of Ilam Province in the Ahmadi Nejad Government, as well as general manager of political Ministry of Interior.
The missile, which was unveiled in August 2011, has a range of 300 km and was described by Iranian officials as "the most powerful and precise missile of the Islamic Republic of Iran’s Navy".
Non-Persian versions Tasnim staff includes English speakers, who translate some of the agency's articles into English.
The rulings issued by this court are in the form of annulment and confirmation of lower courts' decisions.
While Mahsa was her Persian given name, her Kurdish name was Jina (also spelled Zhina), and this was the name her family used.
According to Parvaneh Vahidmanesh one of the opponents of the Iranian government, he has Jewish ancestors.
In theory, voluntary renunciation of Iranian citizenship is possible for persons over the age of 25, subject to approval by the Council of Ministers.
In popular media Increased international attention to the Iranian transgender community and their legal status may have been a result of 2002 award-winning film Juste une femme (Just a Woman) by Mitra Farahani.
The routes converge in the Iran's capital of Tehran and continue to the Iranian port of Bandar Abbas.
On February 27, 2025, the IRFS began forming military cells in Southern Syria, likely with Iranian backing.
He resigned from these posts in 2001, and Seyed Mohammad Shahcheraghi was chosen by Ali Khamenei to replace him.
In 2006, following international concerns regarding the government's nuclear program, a comprehensive, international sanctions regime was imposed on Iran.
Reportedly, the contract was so large that a new Textron division had to be founded to meet Iranian demands and handle the program with Delk M.
In April 2017, 30 men were arrested in a raid in Isfahan Province, "charged with sodomy, drinking alcohol and using psychedelic drugs".
At the same time, they have executive responsibility for law enforcement, prosecutions, setting priorities in the hearings of cases in their role as the head of the public prosecution for the state.
The Management and Planning Organization was revived under President Hassan Rouhani's government on November 10, 2014.
See also 1953 Iranian coup d'état Abadan Crisis References External links Media related to Gholam Hossein Sadighi at Wikimedia Commons
The conflict reignited once more in June 2015, accompanied by ongoing Turkish involvement in the Syrian Civil War and harassment of Kurdish parties in Turkey.
Following the 2011 attack on the British Embassy in Iran, the British government expelled all Iranian embassy staff and closed the embassy in protest, alleging government support for the attack.
Governor of Azerbaijan (1908-1909) Eyn-ed-Dowleh was sent to Azerbaijan (Iran) as governor to quell the Siege of Tabriz (1908–1909), which was started by Sattar Khan and Baqir Khan.
Today, the most important ranking criterion of countries and world powers is the extent of influence and diversity of media activities of these countries.
The first drawback of this passport is the personal photo in which Fashi looks at a point outside the camera frame, and such a photo will never be accepted for passport issuance.
While at Ferdowsi, during the ceremonial visits by the late Shah of Iran, Mojdehi refused to allow the military brass to lead the ceremonial processions.
After a CIA-backed coup d'etat overthrew Mossadegh, Sadighi was arrested and later testified in defense of Mossadegh at the latter's trial.
This missile's name have been applied based on the name of Mansour Sattari, who was the Commander-in-Chief of the Islamic Republic of Iran Air Force.
It was founded in 2007, because no other judicial committee would investigate allegations made against the government of Islamic Republic of Iran.
One night Bahari dreams of a song of Leonard Cohen and later called the song his secret weapon against his interrogators: "Oh the sisters of mercy, they are not departed or gone.
Battalion 056 Kheibar is composed of Companies 61, 62, 63, and 64, and its soldiers hold bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degrees.
Military Army and Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) veterans and their families received additional tax cuts and exemptions.
According to this, Ahmadinejad, while reforming the approaches and policies of the previous government (Khatami), which was based on establishing and deepening relations with the West and specifically Europe, made special efforts to establish relations with the Eastern world.
Among them he noted the impact that major Western powers had with their military operations in the Islamic world.
Such a claim may be brought in three years from the time when the claimant or the requesting State knew the location of the cultural property and the identity of the possessor and in 50 years since the time of the theft, the export or from the date on which the object should have been returned (Art.
'Alí Rizā Awsatí (عليرضا اوسطى), Iran in the Past Three Centuries (Irān dar Se Qarn-e Goz̲ashteh – ايران در سه قرن گذشته), Volumes 1 and 2 (Paktāb Publishing – انتشارات پاکتاب, Tehran, Iran, 2003).
In 2011, Iran signed a contract worth $10 billion with Baghdad and Damascus in order to export Iran's gas to Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Mediterranean region and eventually Europe.
In 2021, Mokhber was sanctioned by the United States over EIKO's role in violating “the rights of dissidents by confiscating land and property from opponents of the regime” and other human rights abuses.
In the Islamic Republic Transparency International defines corruption as the "abuse of entrusted power for personal gain".
Other countries Argentina: President Javier Milei expressed "solidarity and unwavering commitment" to Israel, and said he "emphatically support[s] the State of Israel in the defense of its sovereignty".
Under Mossadegh, some 15,000 personnel were transferred from the army to the gendarmerie and 136 officers, including 15 general officers, were purged.
Islamic Republic of Iran The outbreak of Iranian Revolution and subsequent establishment of an Islamic republic in Iran changed their relationship drastically from positive to negative.
2026 Iran war Following the assassination of Ali Khamenei during the 2026 Iran war, Badr Organization leader Hadi al-Amiri pledged allegiance to the new supreme leader of Iran, Mojtaba Khamenei.
After the group claimed responsibility for the attacks on Al-Asad Airbase, the group disappeared and has remained inactive since 2025.
Qavam who won the competition for office over Hossein Pirnia with 53 to 52 votes, was supported by the Tudeh fraction while deputies associated with the National Will Party voted against him, according to Jamil Hasanli.
Iran has argued these demands unfairly compel it to abandon its rights under the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty to peaceful nuclear technology for civilian energy purposes.
They were taken in across the country, including in Kermanshah, Kurdistan, and West Azarbaijan as well as within Tehran itself.
With profits made from the 1973 oil crisis, Pahlavi decided to increase Iran's civil nuclear program and dispatched Iranian students to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to learn nuclear engineering.
It requires all non-nuclear-weapon state parties to accept International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards to verify that their nuclear activities serve only peaceful purposes.
He is related to Markar Davidkhanian, the former Minister of Finance of Iran, and Martiros Khan Davidkhanian, the former Chief of Staff of the Persian Cossack Brigade, among others.
Article 5 The government is obliged to take the necessary measures to block the import of goods and to prevent the conclusion of contracts with companies whose main shareholders are Zionist enterprises.
Deputy commander of Quds Force In April 2021, following the death of his predecessor Mohammad Hejazi, Fallahzadeh was appointed Deputy Commander of the Quds Force, the IRGC’s elite overseas operations branch.
The council took its legitimacy from the 9 December 1984 decree of the founder of the Islamic Republic, Ayatollah Khomeini.
Demographic tensions Palestinian insurgency in Lebanon In the 1960s Lebanon was relatively calm, but this soon changed.
He was put on trial for heresy on the basis of a copy of the Qayyúmu'l-Asmáʼ in his possession on 13 January 1845 by a combined panel of Shiʻa and Sunni clerics.
On March 24th, the Iranian ambassador to Colombo reaffirmed Iran’s commitment to supporting Sri Lanka, stating that despite tensions in the Strait of Hormuz, it remains open to friendly countries like Sri Lanka and that Iran remains ready to supply essential resources, including oil, if needed.
As of 2014, twenty-five insurance companies are active in Iran and all, except one, are privately owned.
The Russian general Alexander Tormasov resolved to attack Hossein Qoli as soon as he realized Sherif Pasha had not mobilized his forces.
Owning Persepolis and Esteghlal The Ministry of Sport and Youth owns two major clubs of Iran, Persepolis and Esteghlal.
Meshkini chaired the commission that drafted the amendment of 1989 to the 1979 constitution of Iran.
For more than 30 years preceding the American strikes, the United States has been the foremost defender of Israel on the international stage, as well as the main provider of military aid to Israel with few pauses.
Iran's Tasnim news agency reported drone hits at the US Victory Base Complex, near Baghdad International Airport.
The council was formed on 3 August 1980 with the consent of Iran's Supreme Leader, Seyyed Ruhollah Khomeini.
Later, the brigades from Yazd province also established their own unit, the 18th Al-Ghadir Brigade, and split from the Najaf Division.
It was also selected as a member in the Governing Council of Statistical Institution for Asia and the Pacific (SIAP) affiliated to ESCAP during 2005-2010.
Australia had maintained, despite a strenuous relationship, a continuous diplomatic presence in Iran from 1968 to 2025.
In a speech at Harvard University in 2010, Pakistan's foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi argued that Iran had "no justification" to pursue nuclear weapons, citing the lack of any immediate threat to Iran, and urged Iran to "embrace overtures" from the United States.
There is no consensus on how many rockets Hezbollah has in total, and while estimates of around 150,000 are commonly repeated, Jane's calls this propaganda.
In an interview with Financial Times, Ramin stated that he has also initiated the "Holocaust commission" and he is the founder of the Conference on Holocaust in Tehran.
Nasrollah Entezam (Persian: نصرالله انتظام; also spelled Naṣr-Allāh Enteẓām; 16 February 1900 – 19 December 1980) was a diplomat, politician, and minister, as well as Iranian Ambassador to the United States and France.
These claims were repaid by means of Fundierungsschuldverschreibungen (funding debt securities) with a maturity of 20 years.
After finishing elementary and high school in Tabriz, Hakimi attended Dar ol-Fonoon in Tehran and finished advanced studies in medicine in Paris.
Several notable political prisoners have been incarcerated here, including Navid Afkari, Kasra Nouri, Vahid Afkari, Ali-Akbar Masoumi Beigi, and Ezzatollah Sahabi, from pre-1979 Revolution to the present.
HispanTV is an Iranian Spanish-language news channel operated by Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting, Iran's state-controlled broadcaster.
Foreign companies are therefore advised to adopt a medium- to long-term strategy for the Iranian market.
715–717) removed the deputy governors and commanders appointed or associated with al-Hajjaj, including the latter's successor in Iraq, Yazid ibn Abi Muslim.
People are increasingly inclined towards the Koran, towards Islam, towards the Islamic Revolution and the Imam [Khomeini].
He was an economic advisor to President Hassan Rouhani from 2013 to 2017, and was his economical aide from 2017 to 2018.
In late July 2013, on the 25th anniversary of the mass executions, Islamic Republic security forces once again began a process of summoning family members and threatening them with arrest should they attempt to gather or publicly mark the anniversary in any way.
The National Geoscience Database of Iran (Persian: پایگاه ملی داده‌های علوم زمین کشور) or in brief NGDIR is a scientific and research government agency in Iran which works in the field of Geology of Iran and centrally manages Geoscience data.
Timeline In October–September 2034, SATRA deleted all 100 terabytes of files from a data center after reported criminal content.
She was convinced that the key to solving gender discrimination was for men and women to get to know each other and each others' lives and thus be able to feel understanding and compassion for each other.
One reason for this success was the purported descent of the al-Baggara from Muhammad al-Baqir, the Shia Imam after whom the Baqir Brigade was named.
On 1 February, the Office of the President of Iran published a list of 2986 people killed in "recent incidents" out of the 3,117 that it had earlier stated as having been killed during the protests, stating that 131 identities were not yet determined.
He attended classes from many esteemed Shia scholars such as Hossein Borujerdi, Ruhollah Khomeini, and Mohaghegh.
Former Israeli military intelligence chiefs Amos Yadlin and Aharon Ze'evi-Farkash also criticized Netanyahu's reaction as damaging to U.S.
Ramin personally invited German psychologist Bendikt Frings, a member of the far-right National Democratic Party of Germany.
Furthermore, these textbooks are often exported for sale at cheaper prices in other countries, which do maintain copyright relations with the United States.
The commission examined allegations including reports that at least 20,000 political prisoners were killed in Iranian prisons.
The National Consultative Assembly (Persian: مجلس شورای ملی, romanized: Majles-e showrā-ye mellī), or simply Majles, was the national legislative body of Qajar and Pahlavi Iran from 1906 to 1979.
The Star of the Islamic Republic is larger, simpler and more stylised, comprising a golden eight-pointed star within a silver eight-pointed star; stylised inscriptions on the stars provide decoration and contrast.
Network for Public Policy Studies The Network for Public Policy Studies was established by the Center in 2015 to advance the study of public policies.
He witnessed the era of the Republic of Mahabad and became a co-founder member of the youth wing of KDP-I at the age of 15.
Anti-Armenian violence and activism In January 2004, the Grey Wolves prevented the screening of Ararat, a film about the Armenian genocide, in Turkey.
According to the Washington Institute in 2015: "...the pre-deal asset freeze did not have as much of an impact on the Iranian government as some statements from Washington suggested.
He seems to have learned of the assassination, but not of the presence of 'Ala' al-Din's large Khwarazmian army in the vicinity, and he was defeated and captured (sources are divided on whether he actually got into the city at all, or was stopped en route).
See also List of armed groups in the Syrian Civil War Shabiha Sabireen Movement Notes References Works cited AFPC (2017).
missiles, and bought Soviet-designed 9K11 Malyutka (NATO reporting name AT-3 Sagger) ATGMs and other weapons from North Korea, China, Syria and Libya.
The ministry is considered one of the three "sovereign" ministerial bodies of Iran due to nature of its work at home and abroad.
The 16th Armoured Division of Qazvin was formed by the Imperial Army of Iran with a number of units that were abstracted from the Isfahan Brigade, Maragheh Brigade and Kermanshah Brigade.
The assassination took place during the KDPI insurgency (1989–96), as part of the general Kurdish separatism in Iran.
Thus, in addition to national interests, the Iranian government must also address the interests of the Islamic world, and other Islamic countries are obliged to support and defend Iran as the core of nation of the Islamic world.
It underwent changes in the 2020s with government contracts for productions going through to Simafilm instead of IRIB network.
Visa requirements for Iranian citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of the Iran.
Early life Haj Mohammad Hassan Amin Al-Zarb was born in Isfahan to a family that had been engaged in trade for at least three generations.
As the founding director of the Department of Environment, Firouz played a central role in transitioning the Hunting Club into a national agency with legal authority to protect natural areas, regulate hunting, and oversee environmental planning.
Governmental authorities gave warnings on Telegram and Instagram forbidding the publication of information about Khodayarifard's killing.
Furthermore, the new SDF-backed civilian administration in areas such as Raqqa proved unable to fully alleviate the local humanitarian crisis.
The limitation on the final brew is only that it must be less than or equal to 2% TDS to distinguish from espresso-type coffee.
In 2015 Jarden was acquired by Newell-Rubbermaid, which changed its name to Newell Brands, the current owner of the Mr.
Launch In 2019, the company launched its line of flash-frozen coffee capsules at the Specialty Coffee Association of America expo and won best new product.
Achieving desired extraction An extraction yield of 18% to 22% is desirable for most traditional coffee beverages.
The first espresso machines were steam types, produced when a common boiler was piped to four group heads so that multiple types of coffee could be made at the same time.
Vietnamese usage also includes related terms such as cà phê kho and colloquial labels likening the filter to a sock (for example, cà phê bít tất).
The word originates from Arabic: طاس, romanized: ṭās, from the Persian: طاس, romanized: ṭās, meaning cup or bowl.
The design generically uses a lever, pumped by the operator, to pressurize hot water and send it through the coffee grounds.
In 2001, Housewares International bought the Breville companies in Australia, New Zealand and Hong Kong.
The acidity of cold and hot brew coffee is similar but cold brew coffee has a lower titratable acid concentration.
The company employs around 420 people at the Weggis site in 2021 and sells its coffee machines in 80 countries worldwide.
These were decorated with brightly coloured enamel and motifs that included musical instruments or military trophies.
Brewed coffee, if kept hot, will deteriorate rapidly in flavor, and reheating such coffee tends to give it a "muddy" flavor, as some compounds that impart flavor to coffee are destroyed if this is done.
Format and rules To qualify for the World Brewers Cup, contestants must win their respective national championship organized by affiliated national organizations.
A coffee cup or pot is placed on the bottom of the stand, and fine to medium-fine ground coffee is spooned into a dry bolsita.
One drawback of the electric roasting appliances is their small capacity: 4 to 8 ounces (110 to 230 g) for fluid-bed, and somewhat more for drum roaster.
Unlike a moka express, it does not use the pressure of steam to force the water through the coffee, relying instead on gravity.
When the lower chamber is almost empty, bubbles of steam mix with the upstreaming water, producing a characteristic gurgling noise—a signal that brewing should be stopped.
Once the beans are roasted each participant is given an opportunity to sample the aromatic smoke by wafting it towards them.
The thicker filter papers may also assist in removing more cafestol, a cholesterol-elevating compound found in coffee.
Yields of under 18% are considered under-extracted, or under-developed – desirable compounds have not been extracted to the fullest.
The production of professional coffee machines is carried out in the historical site of Gaggio Montano near Bologna.
Manual pour-over coffee preparation Pour-over methods are popular ways of making specialty drip coffee.
The company continues to produce espresso machines (as well as accessories) from classic manual machines to the innovative semi-automatic and super-automatic models recently added to the line.
Thermal transport When placed beneath a cup, saucers have very little direct influence on beverage cooling rate.
While the company distributes brands under its own name, it also supplies coffee under other notable brands such as Shipley Do-Nuts and Bright and Early Coffee.
(According to one source, the particle size should be 75–125 microns.) Strict connoisseurs insist that they must be hand-pounded in a wooden mortar, although it is difficult to do this while achieving a uniform fineness.
Comparison of systems The plastic and metal coffee capsules typically are used in a non-removable receptacle on the brewing device.
The Maas machines are distinguished by their universal design - black and silver, glass fronted machines all made to the same dimensions.
Giuseppe De'Longhi (born 24 April 1939) is an Italian billionaire businessman, and the president of De'Longhi.
57mm group models include the Anna (PL41), Anita (PL042), and Grace (PL81, discontinued); the Anita features a built-in conical burr grinder.
Hedrick subsequently awarded Lelit two of his three highest rankings on his June 2025 "Prosumer Espresso Machine Tier List," giving 'A' ratings to both the MaraX and Elizabeth models.
In response, 15-year-old developer Shane Brunswick created a website, save418.com, and established the "Save 418 Movement", asserting that references to 418 "I'm a teapot" in different projects serve as "a reminder that the underlying processes of computers are still made by humans".
Major wins National and world champions 1996 Road Race Mario Cipollini 1999 Road Race Salvatore Commesso Road Race Armin Meier 2002 Road Race Salvatore Commesso 2003 World Road Race Igor Astarloa External links Team Results on procyclingstats.com, sortable by year Team history on cyclingranking.com
A roasting profile describes the time the beans spend at each temperature during roasting including the final temperature prior to cooling.
Housewares International Limited The company was founded in 1957 as Housewares International Limited, and imported homeware products.
Furthermore, it hosts a set of microswitches that prevent the leakage of hot water under high pressure in case of unsuccessful or improper closure of the brewer itself.
The inner holes in the mugs' walls are designed in such a way that the mugs must be emptied in a unique sequence, or they will drain.
Eating is accomplished without utensils by tearing a piece of injera (strictly using the right hand), then scooping some stew, vegetables or salad with the bread.
In 2015, the competition was the subject of the documentary Barista, which followed competitors in the 2013 USBC.
See also Arabic tea Arab cuisine Coffee in Islam Home roasting coffee Green coffee Turkish coffee References Further reading Basan, Ghillie (2007).
Demitasse cups are small because they usually serve espresso, which is a stronger, more concentrated coffee, best served in smaller portions.
However, most early modern Europeans did not like coffee, which is an acquired taste, and especially they did not like the black, bitter Turkish version.
Travel mugs have a spill-proof lid with a sipping opening and in many cases, a narrower base, so that they will fit into the cup-holders that are built into many vehicles.
Louise Harpman, co-owner of the world's most extensive collection of coffee cup lids and co-author of the book Coffee Lids (Princeton Architectural Press, 2018), suggests that coffee cup lids "represent a major shift in American 'to-go' culture".
The first coffee press, which may have been made in France, was the modern coffee press in its rudimentary form – a metal or cheesecloth screen fitted to a rod that users would press into a pot of hot water and coffee grounds.
Some modern machines prepare various coffee styles such as mochas and lattes and use ground drip coffee, and some fresh-grind the coffee to order using a grinder in the machine.
In North Arabia, a darker variation known as qahwah shamāliyya (literally "Northern coffee") is prepared by roasting the beans for a longer time.
A zarf (plural: zarfs, zarves; Turkish: zarflar; Arabic: zuruuf) is a cup holder, usually of ornamented metal, for a coffee cup without a handle (demitasse or fincan).
Past winners See also World Butchers Challenge References External links World Barista Championship official site
In 1970, La Marzocco patented its first series of professional semi-automatic, dual-boiler machines named GS (Gruppo Saturo, saturated group), winning the Qualità e Cortesia-Toscana prize in 1971.
ISSpresso also offered the opportunity to study physical phenomena related to the fluid dynamics in microgravity of (pure and mixed) liquids at high pressure and temperature.
To some extent the tea will continue to steep even after the plunger is depressed, which may cause the tea remaining in the press to become bitter.
References External links Barista at IMDb Barista at Rotten Tomatoes Barista at Metacritic Barista on X
In 1996, the Miele Group established the Dongguan factory as a joint venture with Melitta, which became fully owned by Miele in 2009.
In 2019, they released the AeroPress Go, a travel-sized model with a reduced capacity, smaller accessories which assemble inside of a plastic mug with a lid.
These cups were tall due to the habit of drinking the liquid layer at the top, with the preparation sediment left at the bottom.
Ivory was carved in the same way as wood; however, its greater value meant that more care was needed to avoid mistakes.
Some of the machines, particularly older models, utilize powdered instant coffee mixed with hot water, and some of these offer condiments such as cream and sugar.
It is specified in RFC 2324, published on 1 April 1998 as an April Fools' Day RFC, as part of an April Fools prank.
There are very few irreligious individuals, and participation in religious activity is generally high.
Also, these tongs still can be used to serve small candy, string beans, slices of cucumber, celery sticks.
The unanimous support from the aforementioned projects and the general public prompted Nottingham to begin the process of having 418 marked as a reserved HTTP status code, ensuring that 418 will not be replaced by an official status code for the foreseeable future.
Singapore The name kopitiam symbolizes Singapore's multilingual culture: "kopi" is Malay for coffee, while "tiam" is Hokkien (or Fukienese) for shop.
A new model of the Senseo machine, the Senseo New Generation, was launched in selected markets in 2007.
He wrote: "Most persons of distinction in Holland roast their own berries." In the 19th century, various patents were awarded in the U.S.
The captured hot air causing mild micro-turbulences on the underside of the coffee grounds were said to help avoid clogging.
It is known in French as a cafetière à piston or simply cafetière (also the usage in Dutch), though some speakers might also use genericized trademarks, such as Melior or Bodum.
Since the early 2010s, Italy has seen a steady growth in the number of coffee houses serving specialty coffee, which cater to the growing local market for higher quality coffee.
An appeal in court changed this patent matter, and the new judgement was that the other coffee makers were infringing on the European patent in Belgium.
This was initially only available as a thank-you gift to importers and vendors of Rancilio's restaurant-grade coffee machines.
The brand was owned by Mars Drinks, a division of Mars, Incorporated until October 1, 2018, when Lavazza purchased Mars's coffee units.
Typically, when the coffee boils up through the jebena's neck, it is poured in and out of another container to cool it.
The WBC was dominated in its early years by Scandinavian baristas and was held in Europe or the United States from its inception until 2007 when it was hosted in Tokyo, Japan.
Cuisine Typically, Eritrean cuisine consists of various stews (tsebhi) made from vegetables and meat, and served atop a large, flat sourdough bread called injera, tayta, "shuro", "alicha" and "hamly".
In 1951, following the 1950s postwar reconstruction and economic boom in Germany, Krups moved into the lucrative consumer appliance arena.
A mug without a handle, i.e., a bowl or a beaker, is topologically equivalent to a saucer, which is quite evident when a raw clay bowl is flattened on a potter's wheel.
In April 2009, the company presented its pressure profile technology at SCAA on a prototype, which, for the first time, enabled the barista to have direct pressure control at any point during extraction.
Current machines Tassimo offers five models of single-cup coffee maker compatible with the "home-use" T-discs.
Another type of demitasse has a glass cup set into a metal cup-holder frame, called a zarf in Turkey.
Discs containing milk use UHT milk, not powdered milk, but are no longer available in the United States.
Cafetière A cafetière (coffee plunger, French press in US English) requires coffee of a coarser grind than does a drip-brew coffee filter, as finer grounds will seep through the press filter and into the drink.
Coffee makers that use pressure to force water through ground coffee are called espresso makers, and they produce espresso coffee.
In November 2020, De'Longhi announced the acquisition of Capital Brands, which specialized in mixers, for 420 million euros.
At the end of 2015, the company's income statement registered a total revenue of €172.4 million, 6.9% more than 2014 (€161.2 million).
In addition, the espresso method of extraction yielded higher antioxidant activity than other brewing methods.
Gaggia began selling these the following year, using advertising to emphasize the lack of steam and the presence of crema.
Care of the bolsita The bolsita is always washed and dried between each use, as a dry bolsita produces the best results.
The brand has been described as "the queen of espresso machines." In 2019, La Pavoni was acquired by Smeg and operates as part of the Smeg Group.
The ducts of the hydraulic circuit are made from steel, not plastic, to support operational loads up to 400 bars (5,800 psi).
See also Single-serve coffee container References External links A Modo Mio Lavazza: a casa come al bar
Similar steam pressure-driven devices were invented in Paris by Alexandre Lebrun (1838) and in Berlin by H.
In 2001, La Marzocco began an eight-year sponsorship of the World Barista Championship, serving as the official espresso machine supplier from 2001 to 2008.
Local coffee manufacturers now mix instant coffee powder with non-dairy creamer or whitener and sugar, and market the 3-in-1 mixture as white coffee as well.
100 Jahre Melitta - Geschichte eines Markenunternehmens [100 years Melitta - History of a brand company] (in German) (1 ed.).
Marketed since spring 1927 and up into, at least, the 1940s, these coffee makers were available as stand-alone devices for home use, but were also adopted by various other German coffee roasters (including Maschinenfabrik Bremen (Bremen, Germany), Georg Schrader & Co.
Fortified coffee Red Eye is one espresso shot added to a cup of coffee (typically 210–480 ml, 7–16 oz).
It was originally constructed out of copper, until 1886, when the material was switched to aluminum.
A barista can acquire these skills by attending training classes, but they are more commonly learned on the job.
In February 2011, Green Mountain announced an agreement with Dunkin' Donuts to make Dunkin’ Donuts coffee available in single-serve K-Cup pods for use with Keurig Single-Cup Brewers.
Different devices and methods have been employed by competitors at the WBrC, including French press, pour-over, modified AeroPress and other hybrid techniques.
The current models of the Anna and Anita (PL41TEM and PL042TEMD) include PID controllers to manage brew temperature and a pressure gauge to measure brew pressure.
Organization The WBC is operated by World Coffee Events (WCE), and is one of seven World Coffee Championships which was established by the Specialty Coffee Association of America (SCAA) and the Speciality Coffee Association of Europe (SCAE) to run a portfolio of international coffee events.
Arabic coffee has a prominent place in traditional Arab holidays and special events such as Ramadan and Eid.
The first burr grinder for home use with completely vertical grinding and a special design to minimize noise during grinding.
Vitaperk LLC, often stylized VitaPerk, is a Michigan based, domestic limited liability company that produces and sells nutraceuticals and dietary supplements in the form of a fortified, non-dairy coffee additive.
A creamer is a small pitcher or jug designed for holding cream or milk to be served with tea or coffee in the Western tradition.
Turkish coffee (Turkish: Türk kahvesi) is a style of coffee prepared in a cezve using very finely ground coffee beans without filtering.
There are several manual drip-brewing devices on the market, offering more control over brewing parameters than automatic machines, and which incorporate stopper valves and other innovations that offer greater control over steeping time and the proportion of coffee to water.
History The coffee vending machine was invented in the United States by the Rudd-Melikian company of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1947, and the machine was named the Kwik Kafe.
In Europe, it is only available in powder form as a coffee creamer in one or two varieties depending on the country with no added flavors.
The lettering changed color several times and the plastic changed from clear to gray, but the brewer's design was otherwise unchanged between these versions.
In November 2024, the Federal Court of Australia dismissed claims brought by Douwe Egberts against Vittoria Coffee alleging passing off, misleading and deceptive conduct, and trade mark infringement.
The term “white coffee” in Britain usually means coffee that has some kind of cream or milk added to it, and distinct from “black coffee” which has no dairy components at all.
Keurig has over 400 varieties and over 60 brands of coffee and other beverages through its own and partnership-licensed brands.
The original design and many current models are made from aluminium with Bakelite handles, though they are sometimes made out of stainless steel or other alloys.
Jebena (Amharic: ጀበና, romanized: ǧäbäna, Arabic: جبنة, romanized: jabana) is a traditional Ethiopian and Eritrean flask made of pottery and used to brew coffee.
However, this method is more suitable for light teas and is not suitable for masala chai (which must be boiled) or Chinese tea (which tends to be diffused for a long time, with tea leaves reused as a rule).
In all, the company operates 13 production facilities and 30 international subsidiaries that support sales to 75 countries worldwide.
This saw the boycott of sugar between 1792-1793 and 1825-1829 as a way to force parliament to halt the trafficking of enslaved people.
How tightly the coffee is packed impacts how quickly the coffee extracts and the strength of the brew.
(which was actually made for the movie from a Krups coffee grinder) References Further reading Shrum, Rebecca K.
Victor coffee mug During World War II, the United States Navy put out a bid for American companies to design a coffee mug that was resistant to falling over and could survive use on ships.
The company originally began as a wholesale reseller of espresso machines, before later branching out into manufacturing.
Other coffee drinks Malaysia In Malaysia, the original white coffee started in the Old Town of Ipoh and was a drink made from beans roasted in margarine, ground, brewed and served with sweetened condensed milk.
Because of the ritualistic nature of the bunna ceremony, if a jebena is not used to prepare and boil the coffee, by all accounts, a bunna ceremony is not taking place.
In 2023, the SCA updated the rules and regulations and now allow the use of infused and co-fermented coffees in baristas' routines.
A frappuccino is a latte, mocha, or macchiato mixed with crushed ice and flavorings (such as vanilla or hazelnut if requested by the customer) and blended.
Vietnamese companies sell an imitation kopi luwak, made using an enzyme soak which they claim replicates the civet's digestive process.
At the USBC, competitors must make three courses of beverages within a fifteen-minute time limit and are judged by seven different judges.
La Pavoni had a technological and functional appeal but, as a small steam engine, also had a nostalgic charm.
Farther north, the trend moves toward slightly lighter roasts, while outside Italy a wide range is popular.
The device uses an infusion method for brewing coffee with a stainless steel filter and a ceramic pot.
In fact, there are two phenomena that contribute to this effect: on the one hand, the Bernoulli equation is used to explain it, on the other hand, the adhesion between the liquid and the spout material is also important.
while preserving the values that underpin its Italian identity.” The company has continued to operate as part of the Breville Group since.
The coffee can then be prepared for drinking by adding hot water to the concentrate at a water-to-concentrate ratio of approximately 3:1, but can be adjusted to the drinker's preference.
The espresso machines are produced by Eugster/Frismag in Romanshorn, which also manufactures machines for other brands such as Siemens, Bosch and AEG.
Geschichte und Geschichten um Melitta - geröstet, gemahlen und gefiltert - zum 50jährigen Bestehen der Melitta-Werke Bentz & Sohn in Minden [History and stories around Melitta - roasted, grinded and filtered - at the 50th anniversary of Melitta-Werke Bentz & Sohn in Minden] (in German) (1 ed.).
produced its own British-manufactured coffee makers "standard" and "Cappucino" around 1955–1965 that also bore the trademark "Atomic".
In 1989, Natural Brown coffee filters made from unbleached pulp were introduced, which kept unwanted by-products from leaching into the environment.
The company employs over 450 people in offices in Europe and the United States, and has authorized dealers in over 100 countries worldwide.
"Even so," responded Washington, "we pour legislation into the senatorial saucer to cool it." though the earliest publication of this supposed interchange appears to be 1872.
Among the variations to the moka pot design that have been introduced since the 1930s are those that integrate an electric heating element in the boiler, expedite brew time, create milk froth, and allow microwave brewing.
Tassimo T-Discs are currently offered under brands owned by JDE Peet's or Kraft Foods, including Gevalia, Maxwell House, Mastro Lorenzo, Nabob, Carte Noire, Jacobs, and Suchard.
At the end of the first round, the competitors with the six highest scores advance to the semifinals round and join the twelve competitors who earned a bye from CoffeeChamps.
History The company Cantarella Brothers was founded in Sydney in 1947 by brothers Orazio and Carmelo Cantarella.
No matter what roasting method is used, the weather can affect the results, especially if roasting outdoors.
Extraction Proper brewing of coffee requires using the correct amount of coffee grounds, extracted to the correct degree (largely determined by the correct time), at the correct temperature using the water of balanced mineral composition.
Variations In Bulgaria, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Czechia, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia, Slovakia and Slovenia, the cezve is a long-necked coffee pot.
Despite the joking nature of its origins, or perhaps because of it, the protocol has remained as a minor presence online.
It is typically brewed in a dallah or cezve, and served in a small cup decorated with a pattern, known as a finjān.
On 6 August 2017, Nottingham requested that references to 418 "I'm a teapot" be removed from the programming language Go and subsequently from Python's Requests and ASP.NET's HttpAbstractions library as well.
A jebena is usually made of clay and has a spherical base, a neck and pouring spout and a handle where the neck connects with the base.
Older models used instant coffee or concentrated liquid coffee and hot or boiling water, and provided condiments such as cream and sugar.
Pod manufacturers note that these problems are generally reduced by the use of automatic machines and pod technology.
Ristretto, one of the strongest traditional coffee drinks, can contain up to 0.75 g of solubles per 15 gram serving (over 5% of total volume), making it more than four times as strong as the typical coffee beverage.
History Commercial paper coffee filters were invented in Germany by Melitta Bentz in 1908 and are commonly used for drip brew all over the world.
Acquisition of a majority stake in RC Group, a leading player in datacenter cooling, in 2006 has strengthened its presence in the HVACR market.
References External links Wigomat: Eine Hommage an die erste Filterkaffeemaschine der Welt (archived 2018-03-20)
Liebeck was wearing cotton sweatpants, which absorbed the coffee and held it against her skin, scalding her thighs, buttocks, and groin.
The dallah has a distinctive form, featuring a bulbous body that tapers to a "waistline" in the middle and flares out at the top, covered by a spire-shaped lid topped with a tall finial and held by a sinuous handle.
A dallah (Arabic: دَلَّة), also known as bakraj (Arabic: بَكْرَج), is a traditional Arabic coffee pot used for centuries to brew and serve qahwa, a spicy, bitter coffee traditionally served during feasts like Eid al-Fitr and made through a multi-step ritual.
This is reflected in language; when people say "meet for coffee," they primarily mean meet to socialize or talk.
A dallah can be made of brass, steel, silver, or luxury metals such as 24-karat gold for special occasions or use by royalty.
Lastly, once the desired brewing time is complete the AeroPress is either turned right-side-up and plunged normally or held at an angle and plunged horizontally.
Package teapot HTCPCP-TEA implementation by David Skinner save418.com error418.net Archived 2021-01-07 at the Wayback Machine
Coffee was introduced to Sweden in the late 17th century, and today coffee plays a significant role in Swedish culture, characterised by Sweden ranking among the world's top coffee consumers per capita, and a distinct tradition of coffee breaks known as Fika.
In Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, France, Sweden, Spain, Poland, Russia, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Australia, South Africa and China Jura has its own distribution companies or joint ventures.
Coffee may be intentionally over-extracted to achieve increased strength while reducing the amount of ground coffee required.
When coffee began to be served in cardboard cups in the late 20th century, the zarf became disposable as well.
To expedite brewing, a weighted valve called Cremavent has been added as a pressure regulator on top of the nozzle that allows pressure to build up inside the water tank in a manner similar to a pressure cooker.
She patented her invention and formed a company, Melitta, to sell the coffee filters (in a format and size later named "1"), hiring her husband and two sons to assist her as the first employees.
As for the Isomac "La splendida", it wore a black sticker Atomic cappuccino which was applied on both white and red models.
Heat transfer through the bottom of the cup is small relative to heat lost through the top of the cup.
This delivers the hot water to a cone-shaped coffee grind holder, which drips into a carafe at 92 to 96 °C (198 to 205 °F), considered an optimal temperature range.
The role of the sensory judge is to score the competitor solely on the quality of the beverage served and customer service.
(Just one machine was given an 'A' grade in this survey.) See also Bialetti De'Longhi Faema FrancisFrancis Gaggia La Marzocco La Pavoni Rancilio List of Italian companies External links LELIT Official YouTube Channel == References ==
Coffee Joulies are small, stainless-steel capsules containing a phase-change material; the capsules were designed to be placed in a cup of coffee in order to cool coffee that is too hot then slowly release the heat to keep the coffee warm.
To avoid the teapot effect, the pot can be filled less, so that a larger tilting angle is necessary from the start.
Some versions are marketed to hikers and backpackers not wishing to carry a heavy, metal percolator or a filter using drip brew.
Reports indicated that household appliances from De'Longhi, initially produced for the Ukrainian market, were redirected to Russia and sold through marketplaces and electronics store chains.
The optimal ratio between extraction and strength is represented by a rectangle in the center of the chart – within that area, coffee is neither over- nor under-extracted, and neither too strong nor weak.
The four judges award points on a variety of factors including the taste and balance of the barista's beverages as well as their presentation.
History Lelit was founded in 1986 by Maria Bellini and her husband Edoardo Epis in Baitella, Italy, near Brescia.
Moka coffee characteristics Brewed coffee flavor, including that of a moka pot depends greatly on bean variety, roast level, fineness of grind, water profile, and the level of heat used.
Overseas visitors finding the margarine-roasted coffee beans unorthodox (due to their slight caramelized flavor) are often misled into thinking that there is a type of coffee bean endemic to Malaysia called the "white coffee bean".
and DLRadiators allowed De'Longhi to enter the commercial HVACR (heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration) market.
In 1998, Sunbeam Corporation (eventually known as American Household, Inc.) purchased Signature Brands.
In the same year, Thermoplan was awarded the 2004 Innovation Award from the Central Swiss Chamber of Commerce.
It uses the pressure of the boiling water to force it to a chamber above the grounds, but relies on gravity to pass the water down through the grounds, where it then repeats the process until shut off by an internal timer.
In the 1930s, Melitta revised the original filter, tapering it into the shape of a cone and adding ribs.
One variation also called "French pull" or "reverse French press" uses a pull-design: the coffee grounds are placed in a mesh basket, which is then pulled into the lid after brewing, trapping the grounds out of the coffee.
Rudd, president of the Rudd-Melikian company, stated that Kwik Kafe machines purveyed 250,000 cups of coffee on a daily basis.
Devices similar to the SoftBrew include manual drip coffee makers, French press coffee makers, the Empot, and, to a limited extent, other pour-over and drip coffee filters.
The Muslims are concentrated in the eastern and western lowlands,& highlands whereas the Christians mainly inhabit the highlands.
Later lid designs like the Viora have improved on Solo Traveler's design, which has too small a vent to allow sufficient air to enter while drinking.
His cockiness provides a stark contrast to the humble obsessiveness of the other four personalities.
Caffitaly Systems also produces the CBTL Capsule System for The Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf and the MAP Italian Coffee Capsule System for Map Coffee Australia.
In January 2015, the company made a similar deal with Dr Pepper Snapple Group, but without a stockholder stake.
Where Gaggia saw them as niche, high-end appliances for specialized operators in commercial establishments that could afford them, Valente saw opportunity in a larger market for inexpensive, automated machines.
The Thermoplan CT1 and Thermoplan CTM are designed for operation by untrained workers; they feature an inbuilt milk-frother drawing milk from an internal milk fridge, that allows for complete one-click beverage making.
In Ethiopia, a small pottery cup called a sini or finjal is used to contain the coffee poured from the jebena.
This is because less flavor is available for extraction from the coffee grounds as the brewing process progresses.
It had the key elements of a conventional percolator: the broad base for boiling, the upflow central tube and a perforated basket hanging on it.
While the name suggests that this method was used by cowboys, presumably on the trail around a campfire, it is used by others.
Rancilio also offered a new color option, "Silva Black," for an additional fee, with a matte case to match the new black grouphead cover.
Equipment The most common roasting machines are of two basic types: drum and hot-air, although there are others including packed-bed, tangential and centrifugal roasters.
Wooden zarfs, of which very few remain, were favored because of the natural aroma of the wood from which they were fashioned.
His workaround of freezing coffee in ice trays inspired him, and he began experimenting with improving this method.
People with milk allergies need to be aware that non-dairy creamer may contain sodium caseinate, a milk protein.
The local culture consists of various, and often quite similar, traditions practiced by the nation's many Cushitic and Ethiopian Semitic-speaking Afro-Asiatic ethnic groups, in addition to those practiced by the area's Nilotic minorities.
V1 (1997-July 2006) Even within what is generally referred to as the first version of the Silvia, Rancilio did make some alterations.
For the open service, competitors may utilize any whole bean coffee of their choosing and must also accompany their beverage preparation with a 10-minute presentation.
The decision was appealed by both McDonald's and Liebeck in December 1994, but the parties settled out of court for an undisclosed amount.
History Alfonso Bialetti first acquired his metal-working skills by working for a decade in the French aluminium industry.
In 1950, Melvin Morse and Dick Borne of Presto Foods developed "Mocha Mix Coffee Creamer", which was the first commercial non-dairy creamer and the first product with the term “coffee creamer” in the name.
In Italian, it is known as a caffettiera a stantuffo; in German as a Pressstempelkanne, Stempelkanne ("stamp pot"), Stabfilterkanne, Kaffeepresse ("coffee press") or Bistrokanne.
While vacuum coffee makers generally were excessively complex for everyday use, they were prized for producing a clear brew, and were quite popular until the middle of the twentieth century.
Seven grams of grounds are used to make a 25 ml shot of espresso (this comes to 280 g/L, but the amount of water used is actually more than 25 ml because some stays with the grounds).
Espresso machines are made to accept water directly from a cold water line supply, common in commercial installations, or from a separate tank that must be filled with water by hand.
More modern jebena's may be made of porcelain or metal, resembling a more traditional western coffee pot.
Hot water (93–96 °C (199–205 °F) is then poured through the coffee and filter, depositing brewed coffee into the flask.
Unlike a standard percolator, the moka pot never sends brewed coffee back through the coffee grounds.
Coffee pods are made by a variety of manufacturers and are interchangeable between brand of pod and model of pod brewer most of the time.
Dual boiler (DB) Finally, in some espresso machines for commercial or home use, water for brewing is heated in a separate chamber, which requires two separate boilers.
History Although coffee was probably discovered in Ethiopia, it was in Turkey around the 13th century that it became popular as a beverage.
The company transformed into a cigarette wholesaler and after World War II it became an operator of cigarette vending machines.
Coffee cup sleeve Coffee cup sleeves are roughly cylindrical sleeves that fit tightly over handle-less paper coffee cups to insulate the drinker's hands from hot coffee.
Green coffee beans can be roasted in a convection oven provided that the beans are spread out in only one layer on a perforated baking tray with raised sides.
Along with the shop's co-founders, the shop convinced the owners of the historic Maxwell House Hotel to use their coffee, forming Maxwell House Coffee.
Viewers are introduced into the elevation of the everyday drink, into a craft culture not unlike that of beer and wine.
The dallah plays such an important role in the identity of Gulf Cooperation Council countries that it is featured in public artwork and on monetary coins.
'bartender') is a person, usually a coffeehouse employee, who prepares and serves espresso-based coffee drinks and other beverages.
In the 1950s just as instant coffee was becoming a popular coffee drink, specialty coffeehouses began opening to cater to the connoisseur, offering a more traditionally brewed beverage.
For roasting, many people used such simple methods as a layer of beans on a metal sheet in the oven, or beans stirred in a cast-iron skillet over a fire.
History In 1976 Arthur Eugster started manufacturing electric home appliances such as egg cookers and waffle irons.
In cases such as the FIFA World Cup and the Stanley Cup, the competition itself may grow to take on the name of the trophy that is awarded to the winner.
The latter part of the reign of George II and early reign of George III exhibited a very large variety of patterns pierced and chased onto the tongs.
Similar coffee makers In the 1880s, Max Thürmer, a coffee roaster of Dresden, Germany, founded in 1879, advertised Karlsbad coffee and somewhat later also coffee makers (of unknown type) in various newspapers.
Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz purchased the company after trying a cup brewed by a Clover machine and declaring it to be "the best cup of brewed coffee I have ever tasted".
Coffee-mate Original also contains small amounts of dipotassium phosphate, to prevent coagulation; mono- and diglycerides, used as an emulsifier; sodium aluminosilicate, an anticaking agent; artificial flavor; and annatto color.
Further reducing the heat lost through the bottom of the cup has little effect on the cooling rate of the beverage.
Coffee and water, usually with added sugar, is brought to the boil in a special pot called cezve in Turkey, and often called ibrik elsewhere.
The earliest surviving roasting implements were thin, circular, often perforated pans made from metal or porcelain, used in the 15th century in the Ottoman Empire and Greater Persia.
Large "ceremonial" or feasting cups, sometimes called grace cups or "welcome cups", and drinking horns, including ivory, with metal mounts, were important prestige pieces, typically too large to drink from all evening, so passed around or drunk from once.
Kopi luwak is produced mainly on the Indonesian islands of Sumatra, Java, Bali, Sulawesi, and in East Timor.
In early 2016 the German city of Hamburg banned coffee capsules from state-run buildings on environmental grounds.
The company Web site said in 2018 that it had been roasting coffee in Cherry Hill for more than 50 years.
Melitta USA Melitta USA, headquartered in Clearwater, Florida, is part of the privately held Melitta Group of Minden, Germany.
This sugar was being supplied by large plantations run by the British in the Caribbean, by enslaved or indentured people.
The Antwerp ruling affects the patents on the pods, but does not affect the patents on the Senseo machine itself.
See also Erlenmeyer flask Chemex filter system (FP-1, FP-2, FP-2N, FS-100, FSU-100, FC-100) Bodum Pour Over (a similar looking metal filter holder) Hario Drip Pot Woodneck (a similar looking cloth filter holder) References External links Chemex Coffeemakers & Filters – Official Website
Since, apart from the fill level, most of the influencing variables cannot be changed (at least not sufficiently precisely in practice), the only way to avoid the teapot effect is usually to choose a suitable geometry for the pot.
The machine includes pre-set programs for latte, cappuccino, espresso, black coffee and white coffee although it can be configured with the Thermoplan Service Master Card.
Jura is a Swiss developer and distributor of automatic coffee centers, which it sells in over 50 countries.
Capsules iperEspresso capsules contain a complete extraction group that replaces the traditional percolation process with a two-stage extraction.
On 5 October 2020, Python 3.9 released with an updated HTTP library including 418 IM_A_TEAPOT status code.
Long black is similar to Americano it can be prepared in different order (a double shot of espresso is added to water instead of vice versa) and is often served in a similar cup to a Flat white (6 oz); Most common in Australia and New Zealand but regularly found in speciality coffee shops.
Some people pour the hot tea or coffee from the cup into the saucer; the increased surface area of the liquid exposed to the air increases the rate at which it cools, allowing the drinker to consume the beverage quickly after preparation.
White coffee is usually purchased pre-ground due to the fact that the beans are harder than regular coffee, making them difficult to grind, even using a commercial grinder.
Construction The early tongs were scissor-like, occasionally in fancy shapes like storks with long beaks or puppets grabbing the sugar with their hands.
Eritrean variants of the jebena are made in a similar fashion, but only possess one spout for water to be poured in from, and for coffee to be poured out from.
History The competition started in 2002 and was initially referred to as the North American Barista Competition.
In 2016, significant changes were made to the competition format: Grinders were now provided by the competition's partner (Mahlkönig), new models of espresso machines were introduced, and the cappuccino was replaced by a "milk drink" component.
A Ho Chi Minh City net-filter venue was included in a New York Times list of coffee addresses in the city.
Coffee house A related but separate translation of the Italian caffetteria is coffee house or café: an establishment in which caffè was traditionally made with a moka pot.
Some sources claim that white coffee is more highly caffeinated than darker roasted coffee, but this is debated.
Named after the Yemeni city of Mokha, it was popularized by Italian aluminum vendor Alfonso Bialetti and his son Renato starting from 1933.
Usage The status code 418 is used as an Easter egg in some websites, such as Google.com's "I'm a teapot" easter egg.
It subsequently expanded into other kitchen products, such as a related tea maker, juicer, and food dehydrator, and integrated wireless technology into a "smart" version of its coffeemaker.
Karlsbad coffee makers consist of four parts (a coffee pot, a coffee strainer/filter, a water spreader/distributor, and a lid) all made out of porcelain, and they exist in a number of different shapes of unknown origin.
Etymology and inflection The word barista comes from Italian, where it means a "bartender" who typically works behind a counter, serving hot drinks (such as espresso), cold alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, and snacks.
Presentation rules At the Qualifying Competitions, baristas serve two courses of espresso-based beverages consisting of espressos and signature drinks for two scoring sensory judges, two non-scoring guest judges or judges-in-training, two technical judges, and a head judge.
Operation The machine has conditions of use that are similar to the traditional ones, in order to facilitate the operations of the astronauts without requiring specific training.
Torrefacto refers to a particular process of roasting coffee beans, common in Spain, Paraguay, Portugal, Mexico, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Uruguay and Argentina.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has stated that products with sodium caseinate may contain low levels of lactose.
The United States Barista Championship (USBC) is an annual American coffee-brewing competition designed to evaluate baristas on their skills in espresso-based drink preparation and service.
Rancilio began collaborating with McDonald's in 2000, partnering in the development of the latter's McCafé initiative.
The Chemex Coffeemaker is a manual pour-over style glass coffeemaker, invented by Peter Schlumbohm in 1941, manufactured by the Chemex Corporation in Chicopee, Massachusetts.
In fast pouring, the liquid flows out of the spout in an arc without dripping, so it is given a relatively high velocity with which the liquid moves away from the edge (see Torricelli outflow velocity).
It can be made with various types of coffee beans and roast levels, allowing for a wide range of flavors and strengths, despite the widespread myth that it is made with dark-roast coffee beans.
The espresso is always served with a saucer and demitasse spoon, and sometimes with a complimentary wrapped chocolate and a small glass of water.
The iced cappuccino ("ice cap"), sold at coffee chain Tim Horton's, is a popular ice-blended drink in Canada.
This method of roasting produces somewhat less smoke than oven or stove-top but it still requires good ventilation.
Products Espresso machines Commercial espresso machines All commercial machines are available in 2, 3 except the Linea Classic S (also 1 and 4); the Linea PB, the GB5 and FB80 (also 4); the Strada X (also available in 1 group).
In the 1970´s, Maas International incorporated coffee, beverages and snacks in its vending machines.
The portafilter forms a seal with the espresso machine's gasket, and directs high-pressure hot water through the coffee puck.
Advantages Enjoying coffee made from freshly roasted beans is one of the major driving factors in the popularity of home roasting.
In Italy, Giordano Robbiati applied a small yellow sticker bearing the Atomic trademark on a small copper and aluminium moka pot.
The modern dallah is a more typically practical vessel, and even automatic dallahs and Thermos dallahs are available to the modern coffee drinker.
In the most common devices, coffee grounds are placed into a paper or metal filter inside a funnel, which is set over a glass or ceramic coffee pot, a cooking pot in the kettle family.
Handling of a used moist coffee pod is not necessary if the brewing device has a removable filter tray.
Products FLAVIA claims its patented technology brews drinks in a single-serve "Fresh Pack," which means that the pack is the actual brewing chamber.
When coffee was eventually popularised, what was served was not genuine Turkish coffee, but a product heavily diluted with water (much weaker than modern espresso) or milk, and sweetened with sugar.
The company was organized in 4 regions, EMEA (Europe Middle-East and Africa), Asia Pacific, Latin America and North America Through its wholly owned subsidiary Spengler in Germany and China, Maas developed new and innovative product lines.
Brewing coffee Coffee is brewed by first folding the paper filter into shape by using the folded side with a printed number 3, where the pour spout is located and placing it into the neck of the flask.
Placing a saucer on top of a cup, however, inhibits evaporative cooling and is thus an effective way of reducing the cooling rate so that the drink remains warmer for longer.
History Holton "Rex" Diamond, an employee of Rich Products, performed experiments from 1943 to 1945 using a "[g]elationous form of soybean protein" to make a "soy cream" that would not form curds when mixed with coffee.
The method spread in 20th-century Saigon and is associated with the city's Chinese Vietnamese community, including the Chợ Lớn area, where cloth-filter coffee was sold as a working-class street beverage alongside other brewing styles such as phin coffee.
A coffee capsule differs from a coffee pod in that the coffee is packed in a plastic or aluminum package instead of a paper filter, and it is usually designed for use with a single brand or system and is therefore not interchangeable with other systems.
Drip brew coffee makers largely replaced the coffee percolator (a device combining boiling, drip-brewing and steeping) in the 1970s due to the percolator's tendency to over-extract coffee, thereby making it bitter.
La Marzocco, founded in 1927 in Florence by Giuseppe and Bruno Bambi, is an Italian company specializing in high-end espresso machines.
Although it is tempting to grasp the body of the mug covering the visible holes and drink the liquid in the usual manner, this would pour the liquid through hidden perforations near the mug's top.
The best-known rider competing for a team sponsored by Faema was 5-time Tour de France champion Eddy Merckx.
For the compulsory service, competitors prepare three coffee beverages utilizing the same whole bean coffee provided to them by the competition organizers.
This culminated in 1941, when Italy lost its African territories and all imports of coffee were halted.
The use of pressure makes it capable of brewing highly concentrated coffee, comparable to espresso, but it can also be used to brew filter-strength coffee and cold brew.
World AeroPress Championship The World AeroPress Championship is an international fan-led AeroPress brewing competition.
Coffee and Espresso Machines Verismo 801 and Thermoplan Black & White The Verismo 801 was a superautomatic coffee machine designed exclusively for Starbucks, until discontinued in 2008.
The use of a milk derivative prompts some individuals and organizations – such as vegans and Jewish dietary law authorities – to classify the product as "dairy" rather than nondairy.
In the United States of America, where the product is manufactured by Nestlé in Glendale, Arizona, the product is available in liquid, liquid concentrate and powdered forms.
A Consumer Reports review determined that the coffee taste is high-quality, yet the process of brewing it is complex and does not justify its high-ticket price.
Batch brewing keeps coffee available during peak hours and supports faster service from a single pot.
Breville Group Limited In 2008, Housewares International Limited officially changed its name to the Breville Group Limited.
Preparation The boiler (marked A in the diagram) is filled with water to an etched line (or slightly below the safety release valve).
The stated goal of the competition is to showcase the craft and skill of filter coffee brewing by hand, promoting manual coffee brewing and quality of service.
According to her daughter, "the burns and court proceedings (had taken) their toll" and in the years following the settlement Liebeck had no quality of life.
He has since become the first US Barista to win the World Barista Championship in London, England, in 2010.
The following year, La Marzocco introduced the GS/3 model, and also launched the "Songwa Estate Project", a non-profit joint venture aiming to provide educational experiences for members of the specialty coffee industry.
Brew pitchers are most commonly 89 millilitres (3 US fl oz), which is sufficient for any espresso other than a large (double or triple) lungo, but pitchers may also be found in 150 millilitres (5 US fl oz) and even 240 millilitres (8 US fl oz) sizes.
It is similar in principle to the competing Nespresso and Tassimo capsule systems, in which a sealed capsule containing a premeasured amount of coffee is inserted into the machine, through which hot water is forced at high pressure into a coffee cup.
Boiling water is poured slowly over the coffee grounds, and the liquid seeps through, making coffee, which drips into the waiting container.
McDonald's asserts that the outcome of the case was a fluke, and attributed the loss to poor communications and strategy by an unfamiliar insurer representing a franchise.
Interest among younger customers and visitors seeking older Ho Chi Minh City coffee practices has also been reported.
As with the serving of tea in China and Japan, the serving of coffee in Turkey was a complex, ritualized process.
Name The name cezve is of Turkish origin, where it is a borrowing from Arabic: جِذوَة (jadhwa or jidhwa, meaning 'ember').
Application of the title Baristas generally operate a commercial espresso machine, and their role is preparing and pulling the shot; the degree to which this is automated or done manually varies significantly, ranging from push-button operation to an involved manual process.
A translation of Al-Jaziri's manuscript traces the spread of coffee from Arabia Felix (the present day Yemen) northward to Mecca and Medina, and then to the larger cities of Cairo, Damascus, Baghdad, and Constantinople.
All parts of the pot should be scrubbed by hand using water, avoiding detergent as aluminium moka pots are not dishwasher safe.
After a period of crisis in the 1970s and 1980s, Bialetti merged with Rondine Italia in 1993 and founded a new company named Bialetti Industrie S.p.A., based in Brescia.
In 2011, GMCR launched the Grounds to Grow On program, in which office customers purchase recovery bins for used K-Cups, which are shipped to Keurig's disposal partner, which composts the coffee grounds and sends the pods to be incinerated in a waste-to-energy power plant.
In 2021, the company built and scaled its manufacturing from a renovated seafood processing factory.
Non-beverage mugs Shaving mugs and scuttles A shaving scuttle and shaving mug were developed around the 19th century; the first patent for a shaving mug is dated 1867.
Products Keurig K-Cup brewing systems The company's flagship products, Keurig K-Cup brewing systems, are designed to brew a single cup of coffee, tea, hot chocolate, or other hot beverage.
Metal zarfs were sometimes filigreed, decorated with chasing, niello, engraving, or set with precious stones.
The sublimation point of caffeine is 352 °F (178 °C), about one hundred degrees lower than the typical very dark roast.
Brewing methods that expose coffee grounds to heated water for longer require a coarser grind than faster brewing methods.
In English, the method is called "net-filter coffee"; the spoon-shaped cloth filter has been compared to a net used to catch fish in aquarium shops.
History In 1908, Melitta Bentz, a 35-year-old woman from Dresden, Germany, invented the first coffee filter, receiving a patent registration for her "Filter Top Device lined with Filter Paper" from the Patent Office in Berlin on 8 July.
Arabic coffee, known in Arabic as qahwa (Arabic: قهوة), is a loosely defined family of brewed coffee of Coffea arabica beans.
Saeco was the name of an Italian road bicycle racing team, sponsored by the company with the same name.
Beer stein Beer steins are traditional beer mugs made out of stoneware clay and commonly associated with Germany.
The increased popularity of lattes and similar drinks in the 2000s resulted in the development of elevated lids to accommodate microfoam.
This new entity, focused on the professional coffee segment, is 61.4% controlled by De'Longhi SpA, 26.6% controlled by De'Longhi Industrial S.A, and 12% controlled by the remaining shareholders of La Marzocco.
The grouphead contains many holes (the shower) that attempt to distribute the pressurised water evenly over the surface of the grinds in the portafilter basket and thereby achieve an even cross sectional flow.
An Americano only differs from an espresso in strength – it is traditionally diluted after brewing to a strength below 1.5% (also resulting in the removal of crema).
It normally works by admitting water from a cold-water reservoir into a flexible hose in the base of the reservoir leading directly to a thin metal tube or heating chamber (usually, of aluminium), where a heating element surrounding the metal tube heats the water.
Since limiting the area of the exposed surface of the liquid helps keeping the temperature, this increase in volume is achieved through mug being taller, while tapered cups are lower for stability.
In the 1970s, the spelling espresso gained prominence, and by 1996, the third edition of Fowler's Modern English Usage described expresso as "entirely driven out".
The original shape appears to have been a cylindrical filter with two squarish handles combined with a ball-shaped pot.
The second half of the 18th century witnessed the replacement of silver by porcelain in the tea sets in order to match the cups, and the porcelain sugar bowls came into vogue.
The machine utilizes the same coffee pods, and can produce three different variants of coffee with foam milk: Cappuccino, Café Latte and Latte macchiato.
With this quantity of waste and the chemical properties of used coffee grounds, they have several potential uses.
All models in this line (except the Elizabeth) are SBDU machines with 300cc brass boilers; the Elizabeth has a 300cc brass brew boiler and a dedicated 600cc brass steam boiler, and is consistently characterized as a prosumer machine.
Cipollini's antics are legendary, including showing up to the stage start at the Tour de France dressed in a Julius Caesar-inspired toga complete with an olive wreath, riding on a carriage pulled by his teammates on bicycles.
In Ethiopia they use a slightly different variation, theirs having a separate spout lower on the pot for pouring out the coffee.
Single-serve coffeemaker A single-serve or single-cup coffeemaker brews coffee from a single-serve container, with several popular variations existing.
In We Have Always Lived in the Castle by Shirley Jackson the sugar bowl is a prominent object used to poison and murder members of the Blackwood Family.
In 2015, Egg Production created a Cloverfield-like short video on YouTube entitled "Kill The K Cup" to promote awareness of the waste impact of K Cup, starting the hashtag #KillTheKCup, and reporting that there were enough K pods sold in 2014 to circle the earth 10.5 times.
La Marzocco's Swift grinder was awarded Best New Product at the 2000 San Francisco SCAA conference, the first patented model to combine dosing, grinding and automatic tamping technologies.
The GB/5 machine (named after Piero's wife, Giovanna Bambi) is introduced, equipped with a CPU board and improved thermo-stability in light of the introduction of "PID" technology.
The size of many means that "vase" would be a more appropriate name, but "cup" has become established.
The coffee ceremony may also include burning of various traditional incense such as frankincense or gum arabic.
Ausdruck dieses Bestrebens ist neben der bereits zum Standard gewordenen Deckelhalterung nun auch die nichttropfende Schnaupe.
During the summer of 2015, Brad Kifferstein appeared on CNBC's Power Pitch, where his pitch received one "in" and two "out" votes from the panelists.
O'Neal's nephew, Herschel Duncan, developed the blend for the Maryland Club, which became one of the better known brands of the time and formed the Duncan Coffee Company.
Mugs have handles and usually hold a larger amount of fluid than other types of cups such as teacups or coffee cups.
Unlike newer capsules and pods, this system consists of a single-use drip coffee filter placed over the cup.
Dispute in Belgium On February 20, 2004, the Court of First Instance of Antwerp, Belgium, ruled in a lawsuit between three Belgian coffee vendors, N.V.
E-61 (commonly E61) is a type of espresso machine brew group, invented and patented by Ernesto Valente and introduced by Faema in 1961.
The machine was invented in the United States by the Rudd-Melikian company in 1947, debuting as the "Kwik Kafe".
Variations Several different systems exist: Coffee pods or pads are pre-packaged ground coffee beans in their own filter.
The host pours the coffee for all participants by moving the tilted jebena over a tray with small, handleless cups (finjal) without stop until each cup is full.
The Bauhaus interpretation of this device can be seen in Gerhard Marcks' Sintrax coffee maker of 1925.
1900), the Kaffeeaufgußkanne Max Thürmer (1900), the Büttner-Kaffeemaschine (1926), the Melitta 401/402 (1930s) filter holders, the Morena Kaffeefilter (c.
James Hoffmann suggests that the Silvia marks the beginning of the "prosumer category" in espresso, representing "miniature commercial machines for the home," and characterizes the Silvia as "the closest to a commercial machine" available among consumer espresso machines.
In later years pod brewers were developed for the home market, and for restaurants and other food service businesses where espresso was not a specialty.
The addition of sugar during the torrefacto roasting process increases the production of compounds with antioxidant properties.
Some coffee aficionados hold the coffee produced in low esteem because of this multiple-pass process.
History Founding Cometeer was co-founded in 2015 by CEO Matthew Roberts after developing the initial concept while studying abroad in Spain while attending Bentley University.
Heat changing mugs Heat changing, heat sensitive, or magic mugs make use of thermochromism to change appearance when a hot beverage is poured into them.
Once the grounds are adequately steeped, the coffee is poured into a room-temperature bottle or keg.
Although the company paused new investments and development in March 2022, it maintained its existing operations, including a production plant in Tatarstan.
Sylvan did not work well with the new investors, and in 1997, he was forced out, selling his stake in the company for $50,000.
The chorreador can be made at home simply and cheaply with very basic carpentry and sewing skills, or it can be crafted from beautiful and decorative softwoods or hardwoods by an artisan.
If the bridegroom drinks his coffee without any sign of displeasure, the bride-to-be assumes that the groom is good-tempered and patient.
Others were also made of woods such as coconut, ebony or other hardwoods, or of ivory, bone, horn, or tortoiseshell.
Single-serve coffee containers can both reduce the time needed to brew coffee and simplify the brewing process by eliminating the need to measure out portions, flavorings, and additives from large bulk containers.
Capresso markets high-end coffeemakers, espresso machines, grinders, electric water kettles, and frothers.
SB/DUs are generally found within the lower tiers of enthusiast home models, with steam wands being a simple and valued addition.
The single shot is the traditional shot size, being the maximum that could easily be pulled on a lever machine.
In 1978, Arthur Eugster and his brother Markus founded the Frismag AG in Amriswil and began producing coffee machines.
In 1995 the separate companies merged to form Eugster/Frismag AG and the group's headquarters relocated to Romanshorn.
The case concerned competition in the instant coffee market, including Vittoria’s 400 g freeze-dried product.
Non-food uses As with many other powders, large amounts of powdered non-dairy creamer powder are susceptible to dust explosion when suspended in air.
The sugar tongs are small serving utensils used at the table to transfer sugar pieces from the sugar bowl to the tea cups.
In 2015, La Marzocco also released the Linea Mini, a home espresso machine derived from the commercial Linea Classic, featuring a dual boiler and app connectivity.
In 2007 the first two coffee machines called "Saeco Extra" and "Saeco Premium" were launched, as well as the first range of capsules in four different flavors.
Ingredients To replicate the mouthfeel of milk fats, nondairy creamers often contain hydrogenated vegetable oils, although nonfat nondairy creamers/whiteners also exist.
As pressure builds up more quickly in this method (since there is much less leakage of vapour) compared to the standard moka pot, it reaches the level required for water to rise through the ground coffee in a shorter time.
"International Housewares Association for Retail and Wholesale Manufacturers and Buyers." International Housewares Association, 28 Feb.
Another lawsuit involving McDonald's was heard in Florida with the restaurant sued after a four-year-old girl suffered second-degree burns after a chicken nugget from a Happy Meal fell in between her leg and the seatbelt.
In 1852, two Frenchmen, a Paris metalsmith and a merchant, Henri-Otto Mayer and Jacques-Victor Delforge, patented a forerunner of the French press, that did not create a seal around the filter.
"System Büttner" coffee makers (German: Büttner-Kaffeemaschine) have been a type of manual and semi-automatic coffee makers combining coffee steeping (infusion, full immersion) with drip-filtering (percolation).
Funeral Arabic funerals gather families and extended relatives, who drink bitter and unsweetened coffee and recount the life and characteristics of the deceased.
Home roasting has the advantage of being able to roast smaller volumes of coffee to match consumption so that the roasted coffee is used before it goes stale.
Earlier units also included a carrying bag, a plastic holder for the filters, and a funnel for loading coffee and pressing into smaller vessels, but as of 2024 these are sold separately.
Beer stein Pint glass Old Fashioned glass Quaich Sake cup (ochoko) Shot glass Tankard Wine glass Goblet For measurement, suction and breasts Measuring cup Suction cup Bra cup Gallery References Sources Allan, Keith (2020).
Data from experiments conducted with Space Cups can be used to design better fluid systems used in space, such as toilets, oxygen, air conditioning, and water coolants.
Soon after, its branch in the USA is established, the Italian factory is relocated to nearby Scarperia, with a showroom and training center, and La Marzocco's first "Out of The Box" event is inaugurated in Milan.
In popular culture The Flavia system features in series 2 of I'm Alan Partridge – the title character refers to it as the "king of coffees" and has a machine in his static caravan.
Anglo-Saxon glass had several types of cup, most shared with continental areas, including "palm cups" with no flat bottom, claw beakers, glass horns, and different types of beaker.
Chinese and Japanese cups have been shaped as small, rather wide, bowls for some 2,000 years, smaller versions of the shape used for eating and serving food.
The mug's design came to be widely imitated by other manufacturers both within and outside the United States.
Verschmutzte Tischtücher und vertropfte Untertassen sind kein Aushängeschild für ein gut geführtes Café.
Like similar proprietary coffee-making systems, Caffitaly can be seen as an example of the razor and blades business model, in which the relatively low price of the coffeemaker is recouped through a higher profit margin on the coffee capsules it uses.
History The company was founded by Italian businessman Sergio Zappella and Swiss inventor Arthur Schmed in 1981 as Sergio, Arthur e Compagnia.
By the early 18th century, the European taste for handles on cups, strongly evident from antiquity, reasserted itself and a single vertical handle was added to a slightly more upright Chinese-style bowl to create both the very similar forms of the Western teacup and coffee cup, as well as a saucer.
One benefit of paper filters is that the used grounds and the filter may be disposed together, without a need to clean the filter.
Coffee (Ge'ez ቡን būn) is offered when visiting friends, during festivities, or as a daily staple of life.
The filter pot featured a through-glazed porcelain filter with triangularly-arranged slits with some air space below.
Catalysts are also used to improve the control efficiency of systems in which the roaster exhaust is ducted to the burners that heat the roaster.
Fabio De'Longhi (born 1967) is an Italian businessman and former CEO and general manager of De'Longhi.
The trademark was applied unrelated to their function or design by four different manufacturers in Italy (Brevetti Robbiati), Austria (Stella - Desider Josef Stern was the trademark holder), Hungary (Szigony M.V.), United Kingdom ( A.&M.G.
The impact of transient temperature – the temperature of the final coffee beverage after brewed is finished – does not matter as much as brewing temperature; briefly heating coffee does not destroy its taste.
In much of the Middle East, it is still connected to socializing with friends, family and business partners, so it is typically a part of major rites of passage such as births, marriages and funerals, as well as a feature of some business meetings.
Families will usually have only one, and it is normally passed down from generation to generation as a practical, ornate heirloom.
Despite the wide popularity of home roasting, Burns felt that it would soon disappear because of the great strides made in commercial roasting in the 1860s and 1870s, including the benefits of the economies of scale.
Eugster/Frismag AG, headquartered in Amriswil, Switzerland, is an OEM producer of home appliances, especially coffee machines which are sold under many well-known international brand names.
System Büttner coffee makers System Büttner coffee makers are a type of coffee makers featuring a special permanent through-glazed porcelain filter with triangularly-arranged slits and a valving mechanism to combine steeping with drip-brewing.
The Keurig 2.0 K-Cup pods come in 400 varieties from 60 brands, and as of 2015, the 2.0 K-Cup, K-Carafe, and K-Mug pods encompass 500 varieties from 75 brands.
Michael Phillips is a barista who won the United States Barista Championship in Portland, Oregon, in March 2009, while working at Intelligentsia Coffee & Tea in Chicago, IL.
Machines that purvey hot and iced coffee are common in Japan, and many of them are placed in street locations.
Slow-drip cold brew refers to a process in which water is dripped through coffee grounds at room temperature over the course of many hours.
This was initially rather deeper than modern saucers as, at least for tea, it was considered usual to pour the hot liquid into the saucer to cool it slightly before drinking.
In a statement, Breville CEO Jim Clayton said, “The acquisition of LELIT brings together the two great coffee cultures of the world: Italy and Australia...
History The earliest credible evidence of coffee drinking appears in the middle of the 15th century (but believed to be much earlier) from Yemen as coffee was in use in Yemen's Sufi monasteries.
Design The Chemex coffeemaker consists of an hourglass-shaped glass flask with a conical funnel-like neck and proprietary filters, made of bonded paper, that are thicker than the standard paper filters used for a drip coffeemaker.
Industry Sweden's coffee industry has an annual roasting volume of approximately 88,000 tonnes, accounting for about 5% of the European Union's total.
A dallah is typically richly ornamented, usually engraved with geometric patterns, stylized plants and flowers, love scenes from Persian Gulfic poetry, or set with other decorations, including semi-precious gemstones and ivory.
The "Coffeeduck" is a durable filter that can be filled with coffee and placed in the Senseo machine to brew a cup of coffee (one Coffeeduck can be re-used thousands of times).
This assessment may be due in part to the lesser frequency of proper barista training by many coffee vendors.
The name qahwah is not used for the berry or plant (the products of the region), which are known in Arabic as bunn.
The used coffee grounds are retained in the filter, while the brewed coffee is collected in a vessel such as a carafe or pot.
Kopi luwak (Indonesian pronunciation: [ˈkopi ˈlu.aʔ]), also known as civet coffee, is a coffee that consists of partially digested coffee cherries, which have been eaten and defecated by the Asian palm civet (Paradoxurus hermaphroditus).
Eden-Marie Abramowicz, Charlie Habegger, Truman Severson and Ryan Redden obsess over every detail when it comes to extracting the perfect cup of coffee.
When freshly boiled water from a kettle is used, the water temperature is about 203 °F (95 °C) when it gets in contact with the coffee.
Brunswick's site went viral in the hours following its publishing, garnering thousands of upvotes on the social platform Reddit, and causing the mass adoption of the "#save418" Twitter hashtag he introduced on his site.
Capsules Nescafé Dolce Gusto coffee capsules come in a variety of pack sizes which contain 12, 16 or 30 capsules.
The idea of using a matching service with teapot, creamer, and a sugar bowl became popular during the reign of George III, although some very rare examples are older.
Faema was to become synonymous with the post-war production boom in Italy, by actively pursuing technological innovation as the company's driving force.
Coffeehouse Coffeehouse culture began in the Arab world, and eventually spread to other areas of the world and blended with the local culture.
Visual arts See also Cuisine of Eritrea Literature of Eritrea List of museums in Eritrea == References ==
On June 26, 2020, a Bunn plant in Springfield, Illinois, became the scene of a workplace shooting in which an employee fatally shot three coworkers before fleeing and committing suicide at another location.
Most do not contain lactose and therefore are commonly described as being non-dairy products, although many contain casein, a milk-derived protein.
The Caffitaly System (known in some markets as the Caffita System) is a capsule system for making espresso and other coffee drinks in home espresso machines.
Melitta USA is responsible for the sales and marketing of Melitta coffee filters, coffee, and non electric coffee systems in the USA.
Lelit entered the prosumer espresso machine market in 2017 with the Lelit Bianca, adding the more compact and less expensive Lelit MaraX in 2019.
A French press, also known as a cafetière, cafetière à piston, caffettiera a stantuffo, press pot, coffee press, or coffee plunger, is a coffee brewing device, although it can also be used for other tasks.
In the first stage, iper-infusion, hot water under pressure creates conditions that bring out coffee flavor and aroma.
Other relevant contributions to the technology used in espresso machines include the cappuccinatore (introduced in 1996) as well as the automatic brewing pressure adaptation "SBS" (1999) and most recently, the announcement of the bluetooth-enabled GranBaristo Avanti (2013).
In February 2024, Houseplant, a home goods and lifestyle company co-founded by Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg, partnered with Cometeer to launch a new line of coffee.
In 1997, Eugster/Frismag entered into a partnership in China for the production of drip brew machines, which was transferred to a joint venture company in 2005.
The machine would drop a paper cup through a chute onto a platform and fill the cup with hot coffee prepared using instant coffee and hot water.
Method The SoftBrew brews coffee by infusion (through steeping) in a perforated cylindrical stainless steel filter cup, which can be washed and reused.
The coffee capsules consist of a plastic cylinder containing up to 7.5 grams (0.26 oz) of ground coffee that is vacuum-pressed and sealed by an aluminum cap.
Danesi of Italy meanwhile has associated themselves with Caffitaly system brewing machines, selling in the USA through Boston King Coffee.
A chorreador is a coffee making device used in Costa Rica in which hot water leaches through coffee grounds held in a cloth filter mounted on a wooden stand, then drips into a container.
In addition to home espresso machines, Illy offers professional Francis Francis X7.1 iperEspresso machines for hotels and restaurants.
The water from a thermo flask is usually cooler, but temperatures down to 176 °F (80 °C) still gives an acceptable result with most coffees.
The judge reduced punitive damages to $480,000, three times the compensatory amount, for a total of $640,000.
A half-moon shaped filter paper (bleached: FP-2, unbleached: FP-2N) is used for the 3-cup holders (CM-1, CM-1C, CM-1GH) and the Funnex (CM-FNX), which must be folded before use.
In other drinks, an espresso cup or shot glass is a common alternative, which must be dumped rather than poured.
See also Bialetti De'Longhi Faema FrancisFrancis Gaggia La Marzocco La Pavoni Lelit Rancilio List of Italian companies References External links Official website Philips-Saeco Official website Saeco Professional
Coffee-mate is a lactose-free coffee creamer manufactured by Nestlé, available in powdered, liquid and concentrated liquid forms.
Espresso-based drinks When it is not served by itself, espresso is frequently blended, often with milk—steamed (without significant foam), wet foamed (microfoam), and dry foamed—or hot water.
Jura, registered as Jura Elektroapparate AG is a Swiss developer and distributor of home appliances, mainly espresso machines, headquartered in Niederbuchsiten, Canton of Solothurn.
The machine combined a method similar to a French press with a vacuum mechanism that separated the liquid from the grounds.
The capsule can be disposed of easily once the coffee is made, and the machine requires little maintenance or cleaning.
The flight model was subjected to the processes of qualification and certified by NASA for use aboard the International Space Station.
In addition, Eritrean cuisine has a lot of Italian dishes from the Italian Eritrean cuisine introduced during Italian Eritrea.
In the late Georgian era piercing popularity had declined, and the tongs were made to match the contemporary spoon designs (for example, with the fiddle pattern).
A long reusable cloth filter (held in a metal ring) is positioned over a receiving pot, near-boiling water is poured through the coffee bed in multiple pours, and the finished coffee is transferred to, or maintained in, a holding pot for pour-out service.
The Levant White coffee in the Levant "qahwah bayda" (قهوة بيضاء) is a caffeine-free drink made from water, orange blossom water, and sweetened with sugar if desired, or rose water.
Additionally, De'Longhi's Russian website remained active, job vacancies were posted for positions in Russia, and advertisements continued on platforms like YouTube, leading to further scrutiny over the company's ongoing business activities in the region.
The cost per serving is 10% higher than Illy E.S.E pods, and twice higher than Illy ground or whole bean non-encapsulated coffee.
Four major companies dominate the Swedish coffee market: Gevalia, owned by JDE Peet's, based in Gävle, holds around 40% of the market share.
More recent units can store fresh milk in a separate internal container, instead of relying on powder.
The sleeve was invented while Sorensen was driving his daughter Ryeder to school and spilled a cup of coffee in his lap.
Bunn, who designed his own versions of paper coffee filters, that had a flat bottom and fluted sides and pour-over drip coffee brewers.
The tube delivers the liquid coffee to the bottom of the carafe, so that weaker coffee (what is dripped through the beans at the end) is distributed evenly with the stronger coffee (that is pumped through the coffee first).
Advantages of pods include convenience and speed of preparation and easy cleaning, consistency of taste, and less waste of coffee grounds.
Among the earliest references to a dallah as a coffee boiler in the modern shape date to the mid-17th century.
A measured dose of ground coffee is placed into the cloth filter and infused with hot water; extraction times and handling vary by venue.
Bravilor Bonamat is a Dutch manufacturer of commercial and office-grade coffee machines, espresso machines and hot water dispensers, founded in Amsterdam by A.J.M.
Different single-cup systems are not interchangeable; some systems force machine owners to buy capsules from a single company (usually the patent owner), locking the machine owner into a single source of coffee.
Some do not require payment; these are typically found at places of employment, whereby the company furnishes the beverage to employees free of charge.
Surviving cà phê vợt vendors in Ho Chi Minh City operate as small-scale alley cafes, market-adjacent stalls, and neighborhood street vendors, with limited seating and service centered on the brewing station.
Normally, a cup is brought in contact with the mouth for drinking, distinguishing it from other tableware and drinkware forms such as jugs; however, a straw and/or lid may also be used.
In contrast, some immersion brewers, such as the French press, are used almost exclusively with metal filters.
Polystyrene Polystyrene, sometimes known as styrofoam (not actually Styrofoam), is used mainly because of its insulating abilities.
In its most basic form, Persian Gulf or Arabic coffee has simple ingredients and preparation: water, lightly roasted coffee, and ground cardamom are boiled in a dallah for 10 to 20 minutes and served unfiltered in demitasse cups.
Most competitors employ a pourover technique using commercially available brewers (such as Hario V60 or Kalita Wave) or modified versions.
The championship resumed in 2021, with both in-person events and a new online format, in which competitors create and submit their recipe remotely.
In part, this only becomes apparent when one considers the normal maximum fill level: the glass carafe on the far right, for example, appears at first glance to be a poor pourer because of its slender neck.
Reiner received his PhD at TU Wien in 1913 and made significant contributions to the development of the study of flow behavior known as rheology.
There are a number of companies that manufacture coffee sleeves; the top four companies by volume of coffee sleeves sold in the U.S.
History and terminology In Vietnamese, vợt means a net or strainer; in this context it refers to the reusable cloth filter used for brewing, and cà phê vợt refers to coffee prepared with that filter.
standard was created by Italian Illy in the 1970s and is maintained by the "Consortium for the Development and the Protection of the E.S.E.
Coffee is steeped inside, then forced through the filter by pressing the plunger down through the chamber.
The external and internal structure of the machine was designed and tested to support the loads transmitted by the launch of the SpaceX CRS-6 spacecraft.
Peirce of Chicago, Illinois, filed her patent for the first vacuum coffee maker that truly automated the vacuum brewing process, while eliminating the need for a stovetop burner or liquid fuels.
The company sells a coffee pod brewer system similar to Keurig K-Cups, and makes various home and domestic coffee makers under the Speed Brew and Heat N' Brew families.
Paper coffee pods can be functionally identical to plastic and metal coffee capsules, if the paper pods are individually sealed in separate bags.
Machines also developed in other respects: they shrank, and their energy source moved from gas to electricity.
A similar concept using phase change materials, but integrated into the walls and bottom of a cup, had been invented by the Fraunhofer Institute for Building Physics in 2009.
Especially in East Asia disposable single serve drip coffee bags are common way to prepare drip coffee.
tea or coffee), cooling rate in a cup is typically dominated by evaporation, which occurs across the free surface in contact with the air.
English silverware examples are from about 1750; the Dutch immigrant silversmith John Schuppe, who worked in London from 1753, produced little else, and his examples are among the finest.
Der Stolz dieser Erfindung wird auch nach außen hin sichtbar, indem man den speziell damit versehenen Servicen ein P, wie Patent, hinzufügte.
A single-serve coffee container is a container filled with coffee grounds, used in coffee brewing to prepare only enough coffee for a single portion.
Cafe uses A method of safe disposal of coffee ground waste has been tested to assist with noise management in cafés.
Bunn is the American distributor of the Tiger Super Automatic Espresso Machine, made by Thermoplan AG.
Historical reference When Jefferson returned from France...he asked George Washington why the Senate had been created.
The iconic Moka pot coffee maker functions on the same principle but the water is forced up from the bottom chamber through the third middle chamber containing the coffee grounds to the top chamber which has an air gap to prevent the brewed coffee from returning downwards.
Achieving higher pressures For decades, manufacturers endeavoured to produce a machine that could use higher pressures without the resulting coffee tasting burned.
Indonesia In Indonesia, the term white coffee or kopi putih refers to coffee beans which are roasted less than regular coffee beans.
The attorneys presented evidence that coffee they had tested all over the city was served at a temperature at least 20 °F (11 °C) lower than McDonald's coffee.
It is characterized by its small serving size, typically 25–30 ml, and its distinctive layers: a dark body topped with a lighter-colored foam called "crema".
For nearly a century (1538–1636), the Ottoman Empire controlled the southern coastal region of the Yemen, notably its famous coffee port Mocha.
Winners ^A In its inaugural year the competition was known as the North American Barista Competition.
Although the water for brewing remains at a lower range than that required for steaming milk, it is still too hot for proper coffee extraction without first cooling; thus this type of machine requires a cooling flush of 4–6 seconds prior to the first espresso pull.
The print run of this publication is limited to 1000 pieces.) Hesselberth, John (January–February 1997).
Prosumer E61-derived models include the heat-exchanger MaraX (PL62X) and dual-boiler Bianca (PL162T).
The Rocky in particular is regarded as "revolutionary" in home espresso, becoming the standard home grinder "for the serious espresso nerd" through the next decade.
In 1958 the brothers began roasting small amounts of premium Arabica coffee at their food importing premises in the Sydney's suburb of Haymarket, initially supplying Sydney's first Italian cafés.
At the same time, Kraft announced double-digit growth for the second quarter in a row for its Tassimo coffee T-Disc sales.
This whole cycle repeats continuously, making the characteristic intermittent "perking" sound of the hot water hitting the underside of the lid.
Burr-grinding Burr mills use two revolving abrasive elements, such as wheels or conical grinding elements made of stainless steel or ceramic, between which the coffee beans are crushed or "torn" with little frictional heating.
In 2017, the manufacturer recommended against using metal mesh filters, claiming that paper filters improved taste.
District Court for the District of New Mexico, accusing McDonald's of gross negligence for selling coffee that was "unreasonably dangerous" and "defectively manufactured".
The technical judges are not served drinks, but score the competitor on items ranging from cleanliness to consistency of shot times.
The system to remove the used capsule in microgravity works via means of an aluminum piston that is activated by the astronaut, who drives the capsule into a disposal pouch.
Infolge einer Bohrung durch den Ausguß und einer dünnen Rille auf der Innenseite der Tülle strömt die Flüssigkeit nach dem Aufrichten der Kanne durch Kapillarkraft zurück.
Starbucks introduced the beverage at 500 stores in the summer of 2016, preceded in the Los Angeles market by The Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf.
Prevalence Ethiopia Brewing coffee is tied closely to womanhood in Ethiopia and in the Horn of Africa.
In May 2009, the company board agreed to a purchase offer from Dutch manufacturer Philips, owner of the Senseo coffee system, subject to shareholder and bank approval.
This beak may be covered with a metal flap to keep the coffee warmer, but traditionally it is open to view the coffee as it is poured out.
Contrary to the terrestrial machines, it is not necessary to have a collection tank considering that there is very limited waste water.
General Electric announced that its new Café French Door refrigerator, due out in late 2015, will have a Keurig coffee machine built into the door.
They worked on the principle of French drip coffee pots, but used a paper filter and allowed to pour the whole amount of water at once instead of having to pour several times.
The main difference is that the coffee beans are ground into a finer powder and sugar is added during the process.
Cappuccino The Italian Espresso National Institute recommends serving cappuccino in a china cup holding approximately 160 ml, usually served on a saucer.
The use of a pod brewer eliminated most of the training required to operate conventional espresso machines.
Espresso brew pitcher Small metal creamers may be used in making espresso-based drinks – the espresso being brewed into the pitcher, which is then poured into the drink.
In contrast to the institutionally-marketed Lavazza Blue pods, the A Modo Mio pods are sold in supermarkets.
The method is linked with long-running small cafes and "old Saigon" coffee culture, including venues that keep kettles and/or brewed coffee warm over a stove during service.
In 2006, the publicly traded Vermont-based specialty coffee company Green Mountain Coffee Roasters acquired Keurig, sparking rapid growth for both companies.
(Italian pronunciation: [deˈloŋɡi]; stylized as DēLonghi) is an Italian small appliance manufacturer based in Treviso, Italy.
It was cited by some as an example of frivolous litigation; ABC News called the case "the poster child of excessive lawsuits", while the legal scholar Jonathan Turley argued that the claim was "a meaningful and worthy lawsuit".
Lance Hedrick, conversely, described the Lelit Mara X as the 'best value heat-exchanger' machine in April 2023, and called the Lelit Elizabeth as the 'best value dual-boiler' espresso machine in May 2025, introducing the Elizabeth as "one of the best kept secrets" in espresso.
(Its popularity may have been aided in 1965 by its use in the Michael Caine film The Ipcress File.) The device was litigated and further popularized throughout Europe by Melior-Martin, a French company, Household Articles Ltd.
The jebenas used in Ethiopia commonly have a spout, whereas those utilized in Eritrea usually do not.
Of the three stages, the first is known as the awel, the second, the kale'i and the third, the baraka.
Practices may include repeated pours, recirculating the first draw, and heat management to control strength and avoid undesirable flavors.
Six years later, in 1958, the Carnation Company developed a product that easily dissolved in hot liquid because it replaced most of the milk fat with vegetable oil, and reduced the milk protein.
Italians also spread espresso culture into their East African colonies, Italian Somalia and Italian Eritrea.
The saucer also provides a convenient place for a wet spoon, as might be used to stir the drink in the cup in order to mix sweeteners or creamers into tea or coffee.
The dry coffee grounds contain significant amounts of potassium (11.7 g/kg), nitrogen (27.9 g/kg), magnesium (1.9 g/kg), and phosphorus (1.8 g/kg).
History and trading The company was founded by the De'Longhi family in 1902 as a small industrial parts manufacturing workshop.
The brewer received the Japanese Good Design Award in 2007 and is used by many of the winners in the World Brewers Cup.
In 1973, Marotta convinced highly regarded Hall of Fame baseball player Joe DiMaggio to become an advertising spokesman for the brand.
Coffee did not become a popular beverage until it was altered to appeal to European palates and its price drastically lowered, as follows.
The Verismo 801 was released to the commercial market shortly before it was discontinued, under the Black and White CTS2 brand name.
Most of aluminium cast Model A (flathead) and B (Roundhead) had a black and white circular Atomic badge.
Bialetti Industries applied for a patent in 1946 describing an apparatus which uses the same brewing method but arranges the vessels side by side, rather than stacking them vertically.
Two Qualifying Competitions are held each year, the top eighteen competitors from each Qualifying Competition move on to USBC.
The extraction yield percentage describes the mass transferred from coffee grounds to water, expressed as a percentage of the initial mass of the grounds.
The company received help on manufacturing costs from Sherrill and raised money on Kickstarter in 2011.
Nespresso continues to sell both OriginalLine and VertuoLine machines and capsules in the United States and Canada, targeting different market segments with the two systems.
Overview The center of the saucer often contains a depression or raised ring sized to fit a matching cup; this was only introduced in the mid 18th century.
During the open service, the competitor typically explains the origin of the coffee, the brewing method, and tasting notes while brewing at least three beverages, one for each of the three sensory judges.
When coffee is being prepared, it is normally time for men and women to mingle and converse separately.
See also Coffee service Easy Serving Espresso Pod Caffitaly K-Cup T-Discs Melitta Senseo References External links Flavia official Canadian and Mexican site Flavia official United States site
Individuals using powdered non-dairy creamer in the ordinary amounts used in a cup of coffee do not face a risk of dust explosion.
However, these bans were to be overturned in 1524 by an order of the Ottoman Turkish Sultan Suleiman I, with Grand Mufti Mehmet Ebussuud el-İmadi issuing a fatwa allowing the consumption of coffee.
Espresso taste Pod brewers allow many food and beverage servers to provide a standardized quality of espresso with repeatable results every time.
sugar bows with highly decorative handles appear in 1750s (Shlosberg says the displacement started in the early 1770s) for a short time; sugar tongs with more plain designs appeared in the 18th century and gradually evolved into "bold, bad design" of the 19th century.
Die Karlsbader Kanne , 5 teilig, € 99,99 (3911 Arnreith) - willhaben Otruba, Gustav [in German] (1964).
After the launch, Lavazza continued with the expansion of both the range of capsules and the range of coffee machines.
In April 2020, Melitta announced that the company would be manufacturing nose and face masks as part of the COVID-19 pandemic.
It is of a medium size, with a neck, a spout and a handle, as well as some regional variants possessing straw lids, and an extra spout to pour the coffee out of, as well as different shaped bases.
By the mid-20th century, net-filter coffee was associated with inexpensive neighborhood coffeehouses that prepared coffee in batches for a steady flow of customers.
In January 2018, a North American electric compatible Senseo coffee maker once again became available to the public.
Seißer, Peter [in German]; Zehentmeier, Sabine; Meyer, Rudolf; Siemen, Wilhelm [in German]; Symossek, Ronja (1999).
The capsules have an outer ring or rim that stays dry during use, allowing for removal and disposal after use without getting the user's hands wet or sticky.
Cultural significance and use Since cups have been an integral part of dining since time immemorial, they have become a valued part of human culture.
Large mugs, typically made of metal or pottery and used for drinking beer, are likely to be called tankards.
Since the temperature for brewing is less than the temperature for creating steam the machine requires time to make the transition from one mode to the other.
Besides its three development and production locations in Switzerland (around 1,600 jobs) the company has a production facility in Portugal with 1100 jobs.
AGA) is an Intergovernmental Academy of Somali Language in the Horn of Africa, established by the governments of Djibouti, Somalia, Ethiopia, Kenya and Somaliland.
Co-occurrence in this linguistic sense can be interpreted as an indicator of semantic proximity or an idiomatic expression.
Bitexts are generated by a piece of software called an alignment tool, or a bitext tool, which automatically aligns the original and translated versions of the same text.
Tools 11 million word Welsh language dataset The CorCenCC sampling frame Transcription protocols for spoken Welsh Welsh-language POS tagset and tagger, CyTag (English: ): a Welsh POS tagger (with bespoke tagset) designed and constructed for the project.
The synonyms had a high-frequency variation between the first and second halves of the 20th century.
The tag sets for heavily inflected languages such as Greek and Latin can be very large; tagging words in agglutinative languages such as Inuit languages may be virtually impossible.
Other topic models are generally extensions on LDA, such as Pachinko allocation, which improves on LDA by modeling correlations between topics in addition to the word correlations which constitute topics.
Its objectives are the promotion and standardization of the Galician language, understanding it to be the same language as Portuguese.
The origins of the frequent s-plural in modern Dutch are disputed; the ending became common in the Middle Dutch period.
Commissioners of Official Languages From 1999 to 2006, the commissioner was Dyane Adam, who was born in Casselman, Ontario, and holds a doctorate in clinical psychology from the University of Ottawa.
In addition this variety of the language follows the pattern of Pompeu Fabra standards who standardized the Catalan language in Catalonia.
In November 2015, Bhagyesh Jha and two other writers Chinu Modi and Vinod Bhatt, said to be the supporter of Jha, used the word Taliban for the writers like Dhiru Parikh and Niranjan Bhagat, who had supported the agitation.
The corpus is generally available only to researchers at Oxford University Press, but other researchers who can demonstrate a strong need may apply for access.
Awards and honors Fellow, Cognitive Science Society (2019) GradEd Champion, Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education, Stanford University (2018) Fellow, the Linguistic Society of America in 2014.
The Academia de Lenguas Mayas de Guatemala, or ALMG (English: Guatemalan Academy of Mayan Languages) is a Guatemalan organisation that regulates the use of the 22 Mayan languages spoken within the borders of the republic.
The Himalayan Languages Project, launched in 1993, is a research collective based at Leiden University and comprising much of the world's authoritative research on the lesser-known and endangered languages of the Himalayas, in Nepal, China, Bhutan, and India.
Hybrid models incorporate the distributed approach to learning along with more localised representations for common (high-frequency) or irregular forms of language.
The meeting was held from 23 April to 6 May 1951 and resulted in the creation of the association and its permanent commission.
For example, its linguistic rules, the Norms of El Puig, were the official Valencian standard in the early 1980s.
Dictionaries of Idiom Neutral and an outline of the grammar were published in several European languages in 1902 and 1903.
See also Irish language in Northern Ireland European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages British-Irish Council Languages in the United Kingdom Language revival Bòrd na Gàidhlig (Scotland) An Coimisinéir Teanga References External links Official website (in Irish) Official website (in English)
The basic work of the school is Dansk Funktionel Grammatik (Danish Functional Grammar) by Harder (2006).
Examples are Dalmatian, Etruscan, also known as Rasenna, Dadanitic, a Semitic language that may be close to classical Arabic, Lombardic, Burgundian, Vandalic, and Oscan, Umbrian, and Faliscan, all Italic languages that were related to Latin.
When the Spanish first arrived in Peru, Quechua served as a language of wider communication, a lingua franca, between Spaniards and Peruvian natives.
Significance The Urdu Science Board has played a vital role in making science accessible to the general public and promoting the Urdu language in academia and technical fields.
History Different practices for Danish orthography has been in existence since the language started to be written down.
In order for the young speaker to produce sounds easier, he or she may replace the sound in a specific word to a different one, which is somewhat similar.
In 2001, Tartu and Copenhagen scholars inaugurated the annual international conferences for biosemiotic research known as the Gatherings in Biosemiotics, later organised by the International Society for Biosemiotic Studies.
References External links AVL Resolutions, at their homepage, including both normative and non-normative.
geographical names or people) and partial syntantic information (which also allows for the visualization of dependency trees).
The National Council for the Maltese Language (Maltese: Il-Kunsill Nazzjonali tal-Ilsien Malti) was founded in April 2005 with the enactment of the Maltese Language Act in Chapter 470 of the Laws of Malta.
The council’s activities are outlined in the Polish Language Act (Polish: "Ustawa o języku polskim") of 1999.
Between these two extremes the rate of change between the groups is quite high, approximately 10% per age cohort.
Initiatives The board has undertaken several initiatives: Launched the Urdu Science Kitab Ghar, a display center for publications.
Its members included Roman Jakobson (its founder), Filipp Fortunatov, Grigoriy Vinokur, Boris Tomashevsky, and Petr Bogatyrev.
See also Norms of El Puig Lo Rat Penat References External links Section of Valencian language and Literature and dictionaries of the Royal Academy of Valencian Culture.
145, CSLI, ISBN 978-1-57586-401-3 Sag, Ivan A; Wasow, Thomas; Bender, Emily (2003), Syntactic theory : a formal introduction, CSLI lecture notes, no.
It was established by an Act of the Scottish Parliament in 2005 (which took effect in early 2006) and is based in Inverness.
Overview The term "universal grammar" is placeholder for whichever domain-specific features of linguistic competence turn out to be innate.
When it was initially proposed, critics of the Neogrammarians proposed an alternate position that summarised by the maxim "each word has its own history".
The basic theoretical framework, called “Glossematics”, was laid out in Hjelmslev’s two main works: Prolegomena to a Theory of Language and Résumé of a Theory of Language.
History of development Sketch Engine is a product of Lexical Computing, a company founded in 2003 by the lexicographer and research scientist Adam Kilgarriff.
This arrangement may have been facilitated by the originality of the concept and the prominence associated with the project.
Over time, it became customary for successful candidates to inscribe their names on the walls as a rite of passage.
Chomsky may have tentatively entertained the first of these ideas in the early 1960s, but quickly moved away from it to the second, and finally to the third.
The Foundation has undertaken a wide range of activities, including the publication of books, dictionaries, and research works related to tribal languages and culture.
The Language Observatory Project Mikami, Y., Zavarsky Pavol, Mohd Zaidi Abd Rozan, Izumi Suzuki, Masayuki Takahashi, Tomohide Maki, Irwan Nizan Ayob, Massimo Santini, Paolo Boldi, Sebastiano Vigna, In Poster Proceedings of the Fourteenth International World Wide Web Conference (WWW2005).
Comparison to real-time sociolinguistics Apparent-time sociolinguistics is often contrasted with real-time sociolinguistics.
Understanding keywords in this light becomes crucial for understanding how the politics of China evolves as Communism emerges and as the free market and citizens' rights develop.
Other famous members include Voltaire; Montesquieu; Victor Hugo; Alexandre Dumas, fils; Émile Littré; Louis Pasteur; Louis de Broglie; and Henri Poincaré.
Võro Institute (Võro: Võro Instituut, Estonian: Võru Instituut) is an Estonian state research and development institution dedicated to the preservation and promotion of the Võro language and culture.
A language observatory is something which is built or implemented to observe and measure language activities in society.
Dictionary and other publications Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka Brunei publishes Kamus Bahasa Melayu Brunei, the official dictionary of the Brunei Malay language, the de facto lingua franca in Brunei.
Hyperbaton Often adjectives are emphasised by separating them from the noun by other words (a technique known as hyperbaton).
In 1952 he served on the Advisory Committee on Arabic and Persian Names, a committee established by the United States Board on Geographic Names.
Selected publications Bresnan wrote an informal and somewhat humorous account of her career and works for her ACL Lifetime Achievement Award.
It was created as the Preparatory Commission for the Unification of the National Language by the Republic (then still based in Nanjing) on 21 April 1919.
The Consultant Council is composed by eleven specialists from all the world, and its mission is to advise the General Council in all the scientific matters that it is requested of.
True to Zipf's law, the second-place word "of" accounts for slightly over 3.5% of words (36,411 occurrences), followed by "and" (28,852).
The census for 1948 reported that 7,126,913 people or 37.11% of the population spoke the language, representing an increase of 11.7% from the 1939 figure of 4,068,565.
The committee was known in English as the Mandarin Promotion Council or the National Languages Promotion Committee until 2003, but the Chinese name has not changed.
As other West Germanic languages seem to attest a plural ending -ō (< Proto-Germanic -ōz), the precise origins of this new ending are uncertain.
Nevertheless, increased time spent may increase an individual's perceived speaking time and this may be the reason for the leader emergence.
Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad is a literary institution situated in the Indian state of Maharashtra for the purpose of the "furtherance of Marathi language and literature".
On the first of July 1974 the Institute of Modern Languages was established as an integral part of University of Dhaka, incorporating the Department of Foreign Languages of 1964 into its constitution.
The Tower of Babel is an international etymological database project that is part of the Evolution of Human Languages project.
The graph in the re-formulation by Mizutani is more easily interpreted, and shows a scatter plot of nouns versus other word classes.
Under the departmental plan for overseas, the General Delegation of the French language and the languages of France / Ministry of Culture and Communication, held in Cayenne, French Guiana, from 14 to 18 December 2011, the congress of multilingualism overseas (EGM-OM).
"Thinking the same as he had felt before." Dependent clauses with ut almost always follow the verb: Ubiīs imperat ut pecora dēdūcant.
History Coonceil ny Gaelgey was set up in December 1985 as a sub-committee of the Manx Heritage Foundation.
It has been used for research into topics such as pronunciation modeling and automatic speech recognition.
1890–1907.{{cite encyclopedia}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) "Академия Российская" [Russian Academy].
Zipf's law implicitly assumes a fixed vocabulary size, but the Harmonic series with s = 1 does not converge, while the Zipf–Mandelbrot generalization with s > 1 does.
As it was extremely difficult to standardize the spelling of kanak languages, a program was developed by the KLA and the University of New Caledonia that would propose a common writing standard.
(2008), "The Pai-lang songs: The earliest texts in a Tibeto-Burman language and their Late Old Chinese transcriptions", in Beckwith, Christopher I.
Limitations and misappropriates Despite being an excellent source of lexical information, the BNC can only really be used to study a limited set of grammatical patterns, particularly those which have distinctive lexical correlates.
Continuous Readings In recent years, AGAL has organized a series of continuous readings of Lusophone books.
Leiden University (abbreviated as LEI; Dutch: Universiteit Leiden) is a public research university in Leiden, Netherlands.
The GKA has a book publishing programme, but visibility of the books produced is seen as probably insufficient to what could be possible.
Its articles are a mix of Konknni written in Devanagari-script, the Roman (Romi) script, and occasionally in English too.
New words which have appeared enough in print and speech to be considered notable are added to Retskrivningsordbogen, which all government institutions and schools are obliged by law to follow.
The post of Irish language Commissioner (Irish: An Coimisinéir Gaeilge) is an office created by the Identity and Language (Northern Ireland) Act 2022 in Northern Ireland to promote and safeguard the respective language rights of Irish speakers in the country.
The recordings are also reused in Natural Language Processing projects, for example to drive Mozilla's DeepSpeech speech recognition engines.
After the Restoration of 1660 Around 1660 John Evelyn and Robert Boyle were interested once more in the idea of an academy.
Guide to the YIVO Archives (1998) – Comprehensive guide by Fruma Mohrer and Marek Web to the holdings of the YIVO archives.
The Vietnamese Nôm Preservation Foundation (Vietnamese: Hội Bảo tồn di sản Nôm; Hán Nôm: 會保存遺産喃), shortened as the Nôm Foundation and abbreviated as VNPF, was an American nonprofit agency for language preservation headquartered in Cary, North Carolina, with an office in Hanoi, Vietnam.
It is one of the oldest research institutes in the Tajik Academy of Sciences; it acts as the official authority on the language and contributes to linguistic research on the Tajik language and other languages of Tajikistan.
Calendar Names Expert Commission The Calendar Names Expert Commission deals with the person names and their inclusion into the calendar.
While no mental examination was conducted on AA during the time the naming experiments were performed, AA was tested using a Japanese version of the mini–mental state examination in June 2009.
Besides more popular test types, there are other methods like thermometer judgments or magnitude estimation (ME); however, it has been argued that ME studies have unproductive variation in their results.
Genre and mode SCOTS is a multimedia corpus, containing written texts and spoken texts, available as orthographic transcriptions, accompanied by source audio or video files.
of the Workshop on Balto-Slavic Natural Language Processing associated with the International Conference RANLP, Hissar, Bulgaria.
References External links ACM Award for Interlisp [1] Intelligent Linguistic Architectures CSLI book about Kaplan's work.
It currently contains more than 1 billion word forms that are automatically lemmatized and POS-/grammeme-tagged, i.e.
ISBN 978-90-420-1322-3 See also Slavistics External links Studies in Slavic and General Linguistics on the publishers website Department of Russian Studies & Slavic Languages and Cultures at Leiden University
1941–1942: Abraham Rosen (pseudonym "Ben Adir"), in Yiddish: אַבֿרהם ראָזין (פּסעוודאָנים: בן־אַדיר) 1942–1956: Isaac Nachman Steinberg, in Yiddish: יצחק נחמן שטיינבערג 1957–1979: Dr.
The Loeb Classical Library and the Clay Sanskrit Library are two examples of dual-language series of texts.
See also Alaska Native Language Center Alaska Native languages References External links Alaska Native Language Archive Digital Endangered Languages and Musics Archiving Network (DELAMAN)
If, instead of the Latin ones, the English cardinal numbers are furtherly used, then they are called "four-gram", "five-gram", etc.
Domain-specific hypothesis: this uses the theory of evolution to posit that certain categories that have an evolutionary advantage over others (such as useful items like tools) have specialized and functionally dissociated neural circuits in the brain.
In addition, an interministerial working group would be set up at the Prime Minister's Office to work on the preparation of a draft bill for the creation of this Language Academy.
As a result of this emphasis of temporary states, present participles represent the majority of the 4,541 terms in Column II.
The area Interaction is a leading international center for conversation research and interactional linguistics.
In 1996, the centre held a "Spellin Collogue" in an attempt to reform Scots orthography, but was ultimately unsuccessful.
Similarly, Greek numerical prefixes such as "monomer", "dimer", "trimer", "tetramer", "pentamer", etc., or English cardinal numbers, "one-mer", "two-mer", "three-mer", etc.
In 2006, the Danish Language Council went through changes in their organization, in which the position as a director was created, and Sabine Kirchmeier became the first in that position.
Another of its functions is to promote Mayan culture, which it does by providing courses in the country's various Mayan languages and by training Spanish-Mayan interpreters.
Groupe μ' (French for "Group μ") is the collective pseudonym under which a group of Belgian 20th-century semioticians wrote a series of books, presenting an exposition of modern semiotics.
Language learners can freely download pronunciations and use them on GoldenDict, a popular dictionary software.
In his opinion, the general world-view can be fragmented into different more local pictures of reality, such as naive geometry, naive physics, naive psychology, and so forth.
This is a blatant attempt to distract attention from the independent endorsement of the highly effective Safe Schools program.
Organizational programs provide an array of resources and activities to ensure the relevance of the Yiddish language to contemporary life.
It also has the task of coining such words from existing Turkish roots if no such equivalents exist, and actively promoting the adoption of these new coinages instead of their English equivalents in the daily lives of the Turkish population.
TEI and access The corpus is marked up following the recommendations of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) and includes full linguistic annotation and contextual information.
The Parishad according to Deshpande lead in the demand for the formation of a separate linguistic state – Maharashtra.
TDK also publishes Türk Dili, a journal on Turkish literature, since 1951, Belleten, the annual journal on Turkic languages, since 1953, and Türk Dünyası, another periodical published twice a year on Turkish language and literature since 1996.
Among the prominent members of this new generation of the Copenhagen School were Peter Harder, Elisabeth Engberg-Pedersen, Frans Gregersen, Una Canger and Michael Fortescue.
let me say here for the sake of any mathematician who may plan to formulate the ensuing data more exactly, the ability of the highly intense positive to become the highly intense negative, in my opinion, introduces the devil into the formula in the form of − i .
For the languages that make a distinction between palato-alveolar and retroflex affricates and fricatives (Mam, Ixil, Tektitek, Awakatek, Qʼanjobʼal, Poptiʼ, and Akatek in Guatemala, and Yucatec in Mexico) the ALMG suggests the following set of conventions.
As of December 16, 2018, Stanford lists forty-four books and papers that Bresnan has either authored or co-authored since 1996.
Specifically, it participated in the implementation of "FranceTerme", a terminological dictionary available to the general public on the internet.
The three groups discussed for two months and adopted 15 symbols from Zhang Binglin's all-Zhuanshu Jiyin Zimu (記音字母), which was the proposal by the Zhejiang Committee.
Some language councils are national and tied to a specific state, while councils without association to any country where the language is dominant also exist.
Publications The board has published over 700 books on various topics, including science, social sciences, history, children’s literature, and technical education.
Lia Rumantscha (Romansh: [liɐ̯ruˈmantʃɐ] ) is an organization that promotes Romansh language usage and study.
Those individuals who speak more also receive higher ratings on leader, communication and contribution-related measures.
Publications TSKK has come out with a number of publications in the Konknni language, or in languages like English introducing themes related to Konknni, which is India's smallest language, spoken mainly along the west coast of this country.
Currently, the Institute of the Lithuanian Language consists of six research centres and two non-research departments.
Among the most important tasks of the council were standardization of Bokmål and Nynorsk, linguistic advice and linguistic quality assurance of textbooks.
Research African American language studies Baugh's early research focused on the language and culture of African Americans, employing a combination of quantitative and qualitative sociolinguistic methods.
A seminar on "Language and Society in India" was held in 1967 and in 1969 the Central Institute of Indian Languages was founded, which had a particular success into drawing young linguists into applied studies.
If Latin numerical prefixes are used, then n-gram of size 1 is called a "unigram", size 2 a "bigram" (or, less commonly, a "digram") etc.
Along with joint attention, Clark found that in order for a child to learn the terms for colors, the child and adult must interact with conversation.
Other linguists have opposed that notion, arguing that languages are so diverse that the postulated universality is rare.
Opacity exists when a phonological rule that exists in a given language appears to be contradicted by the surface structure (i.e., actual pronunciation) of words in the language.
After the approval of the candidacy by the Cabinet, the director of the Centre is appointed by the Minister for Justice.
Its purpose was to prepare for the nationwide teaching of the Tagalog-based national language (Wikang Pambansa na batay/base sa Tagalog) by creating a dictionary and a grammar book with a standardized orthography.
In 2001, three additional volumes were published containing mostly words from the 20th century that were not included in the previous 43 volumes.
There may also be multiple language academies attempting to regulate and codify the same language, sometimes based in different countries and sometimes influenced by political factors.
Organisation The Gujarat Academy oversees five other academies; namely the Hindi Sahitya Academy for Hindi, the Sanskrit Sahitya Academy for Sanskrit, the Kutchi Sahitya Academy for Kutchi, the Sindhi Sahitya Academy for Sindhi and the Urdu Sahitya Academy for Urdu.
It is also used to ensure professional training and improvement towards those teaching the language.
Nevertheless, until the unappreciated concept in question has been thoroughly investigated and shown to be a real phenomenon, it is improbable that the term would be used by anyone other than its creator and achieve the status of neologism.
The library currently The library reopened at the end of 2006, at the same time that Paris Descartes Social Sciences Faculty moved from the Sorbonne to its new location in Rue des Saints-Pères.
SSGL appears at irregular intervals, but the editors aim at bringing out on the average one volume a year.
Vicente Aleixandre, 1950–1984, poet Pere Gimferrer, since 1985, poet P seat Jerónimo Pardo, 1714–1740.
Российская академия (1783—1841): язык и литература в России на рубеже XVIII—XIX веков [The Russian Academy (1783–1841): Language and Literature in Russia at the Turn of the 18th–19th Centuries] (PDF) (in Russian).
The Language Act was founded on the principle of Russian-Estonian bilingualism, requiring individuals in certain positions to demonstrate proficiency in Estonian in addition to Russian.
References External links (in Icelandic) The Icelandic Language Institute Webpage Archived 2007-05-07 at the Wayback Machine English version (in Icelandic) Glossary Database English version The Icelandic Language Institute from randburg.com
That idea is fundamental to the modern comparative method since it necessarily assumes regular correspondences between sounds in related languages and thus regular sound changes from the proto-language.
Recent work in behavioral economics has purported that elicitation techniques can be used to control subject misconceptions and mitigate errors from generally accepted experimental design practices.
The institution includes the most distinguished scientists, also called "academics", that are involved in research centers and other organisations inside and outside Albania.
According to the commissioner's website, there are two principles that underpin the work of the commissioner, namely: Welsh should not be treated less favourably than the English language in Wales People should be able to live their lives in Wales through the medium of Welsh if they so wish.
Organization In 2023, the Academy of Albanological Studies was integrated into the Academy of Sciences, while the latter was reorganized.
An elicitation technique is any of a number of data collection techniques used in anthropology, cognitive science, counseling, education, knowledge engineering, linguistics, management, philosophy, psychology, or other fields to gather knowledge or information from people.
(ed.), Medieval Tibeto-Burman Languages III, Halle: International Institute for Tibetan and Buddhist Studies GmbH, pp.
Since a newly elected member is required to eulogize their predecessor in the installation ceremony, it is not uncommon that potential candidates refuse to apply for particular seats because they dislike the predecessors.
(1994) showed that infants, aging three-days old, are sensitive to acoustic properties of a language.
This corpus first set the bar for the scientific study of the frequency and distribution of word categories in everyday language use.
The database consists of two major components: the digitalized recordings from MARSEC and the annotations.
Alignments of parallel corpora at sentence level are prerequisite for many areas of linguistic research.
Merlan (1994) 12 A Grammar of Berbice Dutch Creole – Silvia Kouwenberg (1994) 13 A Grammar of Norman French of the Channel Islands – Anthony Liddicoat (1994) 14 A Grammar of Supyire – Robert Carlson (1994) 15 A Grammar of Kayardild – Nicholas D.
The Scythian theory was further developed by Andreas Jäger (1686) and William Wotton (1713), who made early forays to reconstruct the primitive common language.
More specifically, infants by 2 months of age can from vague categories of different rhythmic structures, those that are native classes, and those that are nonnative.
Synopsis This book's general subject is structuralism, which is a way of looking at the world that focuses on how different parts relate to each other rather than on the individual parts themselves.
Chartered Institute of Linguists website CIOL Language Level Frameworks The Linguist – magazine published by the CIOL
Foras na Gaeilge ([ˈfˠɔɾˠəsˠ n̪ˠə ˈɡeːlʲɟə], "Irish Institute"; FnaG) is a public body responsible for the promotion of the Irish language throughout the island of Ireland, including both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
The Royal Flemish Academy for Dutch Language and Literature (Dutch: Koninklijke Academie voor Nederlandse Taal en Letteren, pronounced [ˈkoːnɪŋkləkə ˌaːkaːˈdeːmi voːr ˈneːdərlɑntsə ˈtaːl ɛn ˈlɛtərə(n)], abbr.
See also Sino-Tibetan Etymological Dictionary and Thesaurus International Conference on Sino-Tibetan Languages and Linguistics References External links Himalayan Languages Project official website The Kirat Rai Association's web portal
Elicitation, in which knowledge is sought directly from human beings, is usually distinguished from indirect methods such as gathering information from written sources.
A fifteen million word subset of the corpus, called the Open American National Corpus (OANC), is freely available with no restrictions on its use from the ANC Website.
The development of technology, new techniques and methodology relating to massive corpora have all consolidated this trend.
In September 2006, the Icelandic Language Institute was merged with four other institutes to form the Árni Magnússon Institute for Icelandic Studies.
In 2012, the center received a top rating of four stars from the Charity Navigator non-profit evaluation service.
It aims to promote scientific and technical knowledge in Urdu language through the publication of books and journals.
The Gujarat Sahitya Akademi (Gujarati: ગુજરાત સાહિત્ય અકાદમી) or Gujarat Sahitya Academy, established in 1981, is a government institution dedicated to the development of the languages spoken in Gujarat, India and their literature.
The section concludes with summaries of a number of different constructions, and a synopsis of the Breton mutation system.
These conversations were produced in different situations, including formal business or government meetings to conversations on radio shows and phone-ins.
The centre's aim is to carry out lexicographic research into needs-adapted information and data access, i.e.
Although "PropBank" refers to a specific corpus produced by Martha Palmer et al., the term propbank is also coming to be used as a common noun referring to any corpus that has been annotated with propositions and their arguments.
Collocations can be in a syntactic relation (such as verb–object: make and decision), lexical relation (such as antonymy), or they can be in no linguistically defined relation.
Another similarity among creole languages can be identified in the fact that questions are created simply by changing the intonation of a declarative sentence; not its word order or content.
SAM produced many speech research tools (including the SAMPA computer-based phonetic transcription which was also used for the BABEL project) and a corpus of recorded speech material distributed on CD-ROM.
In Europe, tag sets from the Eagles Guidelines see wide use and include versions for multiple languages.
Beyond text mining, topic models have also been used to uncover latent structures in fields such as genetic information, bioinformatics, computer vision, and social networks.
It was suggested that human language predates the out-of-Africa migrations of 50,000 to 70,000 years ago and that language might have been the essential cultural and cognitive innovation that facilitated human colonization of the globe.
Their idea is that "all representatives of the species Homo sapiens presumably share a common origin, [so] it would be natural to suppose – although this is a goal yet to be achieved – that all human languages also go back to some common source.
The understanding of the Etruscan language has gradually increased over the years, as new knowledge from the Etruscan texts themselves, and from research in other disciplines of Etruscology.
A group of academics was founded by ASALE in 2018 and submitted to the government of Israel for recognition.
Introduction Ministry of Education & Culture was the ministry that was responsible for education and culture in Somalia.
Its compilation started in 1998 at the Institute of Linguistics of the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, University of Zagreb following the ideas of Marko Tadić.
Organization The council is composed of 36 members, including linguists, scientists, other specialists (e.g., in law, history of art, computer science, medicine, physics).
The need for observatories According to the UNESCO report "Atlas of the World Languages in Danger of Disappearing", between 6,000 and 7,000 languages are spoken throughout the world and, that many more have become extinct.
Pritenic is a proposed reconstructed Celtic language (or a branch of languages), thought to be spoken by Picts and Priteni in Britain during late Iron Age.
References External links http://www.nepalbhashaacademy.org.np Archived 17 May 2013 at the Wayback Machine
African American Vernacular English: Features and Use, Evolution, and Educational Implications, Oxford (1999): Blackwell.
Here are further examples; these are word-level 3-grams and 4-grams (and counts of the number of times they appeared) from the Google n-gram corpus.
Instruction was for the most part organized in the form of intensive Summer Schools which were conducted by distinguished scholars invited from overseas, e.g.
[299 pp.] References External links Kira Hall's home page (as of June 2021) Kira Hall's home page, archived 2006 Program in Culture, Language and Social Practice
History Foundation and early history In 1575, the emerging Dutch Republic did not have universities in its northern heartland.
The Center for Jewish History is a partnership of five Jewish history, scholarship, and art organizations in New York City, namely the American Jewish Historical Society, American Sephardi Federation, Leo Baeck Institute New York, Yeshiva University Museum, and YIVO Institute for Jewish Research.
The Abuabdullo Rudaki Institute of Language and Literature (Tajik: Институти забон ва адабиёт ба номи А.
In the 1970s and 1980s they worked on developing a theoretical approach towards visual rhetoric and visual semiotics that involved classifying images according to their differences from plastic and iconic norms.
They note that Lhuyd partially identified Grimm's law, before the work of Jacob Grimm and Rasmus Rask, and produced more sophisticated work than the later work of William Jones.
The event was organized by Djibouti's Ministry of Islamic Affairs, Culture and Waqf in conjunction with the Somali-Speaking PEN Centre of Djibouti, and was attended by around 50 prominent Somali-speaking intellectuals from the region and elsewhere.
The Moscow linguistic circle was a group of social scientists in semiotics, literary theory, and linguistics active in Moscow from 1915 to ca.
There are also a number of functions offering statistical summaries of the collected texts References External links Official website
Fishman's history of the Paper Brigade in Vilna, recounting how YIVO scholars and activists rescued books and archival materials from Nazi destruction.
The Prague structuralists also had a significant influence on structuralist film theory, especially through the introduction of the ostensive sign.
The publication of new editions has often been a source of heated debate and national controversy, as recently as 1993.
On the other hand, in the Swedish language, the institute usually promotes Swedish usage, with the key aim to prevent the Swedish spoken in Finland from straying too far from its counterpart in Sweden.
Based on this, linguists focused more on the spoken forms of the language, and devoted more time to the study of non-standard dialects than previous linguists had done.
Initially, it was intended that there would be five members on the Coonceil, however, when Doug Faragher died in 1987 no appointment was made to replace him until 1996 when Brian Stowell was appointed.
It was then that the Act of the Ministry of Education of the Government of the then Socialist Republic of Macedonia for transforming the Department of the Macedonian Language and Literature at the Institute of Folklore into an autonomous Institute of the Macedonian Language was empowered.
In this collection all documents are categorized into different subjects such as political, cultural, etc.; in about 4300 different subject categories.
Two of the council's primary responsibilities are the promotion of the Maltese language, and establishing effective bilingualism between Maltese and English.
The 1991 census of India found 1,576 "mother tongues" with separate grammatical structures and 1,796 languages classified as "other mother tongues".
CIOL also hosts the IoL Educational Trust (IoLET), a charitable company limited by guarantee and an accredited awarding organisation.
The Bibliography is published on the authority of the Permanent International Committee of Linguistics (CIPL) and is in accordance with the rules of the International Standard Bibliographic Description (ISBD) and the International Federation of Library Associations (IFLA).
The original version of this article was translated, with adaptations, from the corresponding article on the Spanish-language Wikipedia.
With the cessation of its territorialist activity decades earlier, the Freeland League officially changed its name to the League for Yiddish on September 13, 1979, in order to continue its focus on promoting Yiddish as a living language.
Currently, the ANC includes a range of genres, including emerging genres such as email, tweets, and web data that are not included in earlier corpora such as the British National Corpus.
The corpus was collected under the direction of linguist Janet Holmes and includes broadcast transcripts as well as informal conversations, telephone conversations, lectures, and oral history interviews.
A brief timeline may help contextualize: Late 1950s - Moscow mathematical linguistics paves way for cybernetic theories of culture 1960s - Semiotics born out of cybernetics and information theory.
The decision to form the institute came about from a meeting in September 2000, in Miranda do Douro, where a number of persons interested in the language met, also passing the resolution to establish Mirandese under the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.
Flasdieck distinguished three phases: first private initiatives up to the middle of the 17th century; then the Restoration period in which the Royal Society and its membership took an interest; and a later period in which proposals to mirror the French Académie met with serious opposition.
Thus in addition to the distortion inherent in transcription, interpretation is complicated by the transmission history of the text and uncertainty about the pronunciation of Eastern Han Chinese.
After the failure of Old National Pronunciation, it moved towards what is now Modern Standard Mandarin in 1932, with pronunciation based on the Beijing dialect.
The theory provides a large and elaborate basis for linguistic description and, due to its formal character, lends itself particularly well to computer applications, including machine translation, phraseology, and lexicography.
This is extremely expensive, especially because analyzing the higher levels is much harder when multiple part-of-speech possibilities must be considered for each word.
He was himself the regent, and his friends Edward May, Michael Mason, Thomas Hunt, Nicholas Fiske, John Spiedal (Spidall), and Walter Salter were professors in various areas.
The academy was established after the National Language (Priority) Bill was ratified by President Mohamed Nasheed which was passed by the Parliament.
Further develop the Kven language, including writing a dictionary and education material for the Kven language.
The Bhawan was exchanged by the Nagaland Government with the earlier one, which was known as LAL GHAR and taken by the Nagaland Government in the year 1978.
The purposes of the organisation are limited to Dutch language and Dutch-language literature, and are hence not as wide as those of the Community of Portuguese Language Countries, La Francophonie or the Commonwealth of Nations.
The PropBank project has played a role in recent research in natural language processing, and has been used in semantic role labelling.
Research has shown the variable extent to which washback influences different individuals in different ways, and the difficulty of targeting washback.
With a view to meet this objective, the Tribal Research and Cultural Foundation has undertaken documentation of tribal culture and artifacts.
History The Spoken English Corpus (SEC) project was supported jointly in 1984-5 by the Humanities Research Fund at Lancaster University and by IBM (UK) Ltd, and subsequently by IBM UK Ltd.
The Institute for the Languages of Finland, better known as Kotus, is a governmental linguistic research institute of Finland geared to studies of Finnish, Swedish (cf.
During 2020, the Centre researched Scots exonyms for European settlements and countries and compiled a map based on this information the following year.
140–142, ISBN 0-521-63751-1, OCLC 40305532 External links Language Council of Sweden (in Swedish) Recent books published by the council
The majority of Hall's work focuses on language in India and the United States, with special attention to organizations of gender and sexuality.
The aim of the project is according to pages is "producing a web corpus of Buddhist texts for using in multilingual lexicography.
The idea of an all-Nordic cooperation was thwarted by the fact that all Nordic countries with the exception of Sweden were embroiled in the Second World War.
In 2012, the psycholinguistics sector was transformed into the department of psycholinguistics comprising the general psycholinguistics sector and the ethnopsycholinguistics sector.
History The establishment of the Lembaga Bahasa (Language Board) began with the approval of an usul (motion) during a Legislative Council meeting on 18 April 1960.
Devine and Stephens note for example that Livy is fond of putting the object after the verb at the end of the clause (e.g.
The questionnaire asks for various types of information, including plants, minerals, stones, birds, quadrupeds, and the weather.
The Traité du signe visuel (1992) (which Göran Sonesson said was to visual communication what Saussure's Cours de linguistique générale was to linguistics) sought to elaborate a general grammar of the image, independently of the type of corpus being considered.
Key words are calculated by carrying out a statistical test (e.g., loglinear or chi-squared) which compares the word frequencies in a text against their expected frequencies derived in a much larger corpus, which acts as a reference for general language use.
In the school year of 1940–1941, the teaching of the national language (wikang pambansa), with its new standardized orthography, was set by law in the fourth year of all high schools in both public and private schools throughout the country.
The corpus is accompanied by an online teaching and learning toolkit – Y Tiwtiadur – which draws directly on the data from the corpus to provide resources for Welsh language learning at all ages and levels.
The Class of Letters (Portuguese: Classe de Letras) of the Lisbon Academy of Sciences holds an official consultative role on the Portuguese language in Portugal.
A proposal was made to the European Union under the Copernicus initiative in 1994, with the objective of creating a corpus of spoken Bulgarian, Estonian, Hungarian, Polish and Romanian, and Grant #1304 was awarded for this.
History In July 1947, the Department of International Relations was established at the University of Dhaka.
Very active societies include the Genealogical Society, the Archaeological Society, and the Biological Society.
Karnataka Konkani Sahitya Academy is formed in the Indian state of Karnataka to promote Konkani language and literature.
Authorship studies now usually use a wide range of measures to look for patterns rather than relying upon single measurements.
History Yerevan State University, which temporarily operated from Alexandropol starting in 1919, served as the Republic's initial hub for cultural, educational, and scientific activities.
It was classified into two sections: a New Linguistic Survey of India and a Survey of Minor and Endangered Languages.
It is not a goal of CSL to search for entities of human language that distinguish it from other forms of animal communication.
Examples Cussel an Tavas Kernuak (the Cornish Language Council) European Language Council Norwegian Language Council Polish Language Council Swedish Language Council See also Académie française List of language regulators == References ==
Language Inspectorate (Estonian: Keeleinspektsioon) is a governmental body under the Ministry of Education of Estonia.
On May 25, 2017, Andrej Kibrik was elected the director of the Institute of Linguistics by the general meeting of the researchers.
A variety of textbooks, graded readers, and Yiddish materials available through the League for Yiddish's website.
The Languages of Arunachal Pradesh Part One: Hindi Edited by Lisa Lomdak Part Two: English Edited by Lisa Lomdak 5.
The inspectorate was founded in 1990 as the State Language Board with the mandate to facilitate the republic's expectation that people offering services to the public should speak Estonian, as stated by the Commissioner for Human Rights.
It was established in 2005 and replaced the Norwegian Language Council (Norsk språkråd, Urban East Norwegian: [ˈnɔʂk ˈsprôːkrǒːd]) which existed from 1974 to 2005.
Responding to issues related to language for institutions and private bodies, and collaborating with institutions and media that have a significant impact on language, such as government administration, schools, newspapers, radio and television.
The largest phoneme inventories are found among African languages, while the smallest inventories are found in South America and Oceania, some of the last regions of the globe to be settled.
It includes language from the UK, the United States, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, the Caribbean, Canada, India, Singapore, and South Africa.
References External links Japan-Netherlands Institute Publications at the Wayback Machine Repository of The Japan-Netherlands Institute at the Leiden University Office Tokyo
The Tabular Parser: A Parsing Program for Phrase-Structure and Dependency, RM-4933-PR, Santa Monica, The RAND Corporation, July 1966.
The Language Council of Sweden (Swedish: Språkrådet) is the primary regulatory body for the advancement and cultivation of the Swedish language.
An Coimisinéir Teanga ('The Language Commissioner') is an office created by the Official Languages Act 2003 in Ireland to promote and safeguard the respective language rights of Irish and English speakers in Ireland.
Key activities The institution has published a wide range of general, scientific and technical dictionaries and an Urdu Thesaurus.
The project was funded by the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders and the Office of Research at Ohio State University.
Four levels of certificate courses are offered for each language, Bengali being the only language exclusively reserved for foreign international students.
The commission focuses mainly on the revision and publication of the Afrikaanse Woordelys en Spelreëls (AWS; "Afrikaans Word List and Spelling Rules"), a standard guide to the spelling and related writing conventions of Afrikaans.
A contact call origin for human language is consistent with animal studies, as like human language, contact call discrimination in monkeys is lateralised to the left hemisphere.
It was born in 2009, evolving from the association's previous Área Editorial da AGAL (AGAL's Editorial Area), thus gaining greater entity and autonomy.
Duke of York derivations are described to be similar to the little nursery rhyme that accompanies its name: a certain process turns A into B, and then another process turns B back into A, seemingly achieving nothing.
In addition to providing financial support, Lhuyd's subscribers had also been encouraged to contribute research material.
O vozmožnom metode i instrumentax semantičeskogo sinteza (On a possible method and instruments for semantic synthesis).
The Institute of the Mirandese Language (Mirandese: Anstituto de la Lhéngua Mirandesa) is the institution responsible for the representation, research, promotion, codification and distribution of the Mirandese language.
Covering both British and American varieties of English in all of these registers but the last one, the descriptions in LGSWE are based on a language corpus exceeding 40 million words and as such this grammar has been widely praised as a new milestone in corpus-based grammatical studies.
Each line consists of a list of comma-separated values, with the first term being the root word, and all following words being related terms.
The rapid loss of Old English verbal prefixes is attributed to the fact that Old Norse had already lost most of the Germanic prefixes, and so lacked cognates for English prefixed verbs.
The Japan-Netherlands Institute was dissolved in 2013, and many of its activities have since been continued by the Leiden University Office Tokyo.
Using the position of the prosodic boundaries, adults were able to determine which category the ambiguous word [mɔʀ] belonged to, since the word is assigned to a different phonological phrase, depending on its syntactic category and semantic meaning in the sentence.
The Institute has a non-binding recommendation that Norway, Denmark, and Iceland also use the Swedish names for Finnish locations, for instance Helsingfors for Helsinki, and which is accepted by the Language Council of Norway.
Denham, also says that the book explains the work of significant structuralist critics, making it a useful introductory work.
If we look back at /teo/, where Palatalization precedes Deletion, /t/ precedes /e/, therefore palatalizes into /tʃ/.
The Global Language Monitor (GLM) is a company based in Austin, Texas, that analyzes trends in the English language.
The Languages of Gujarat, Diu, Daman and Dadra & Nagar Haveli Part One: Hindi Edited by Kanji Patel Part Two: English Edited by Kanji Patel Part Three: Gujarati Edited by Kanji Patel Images of the cover pages References External links https://www.bhasharesearch.org/plsi
Texts are provided with metamarkup (by date of creation of the text, sex, place and year of birth of the author, Internet genre, etc.); all texts are provided with automatic morphological tagging and lemmatization.
History Of all the Slavic maticas, Matica Srpska was the first to be established in the Habsburg Empire at the time of a Serb national and cultural awakening.
The Commission has prepared several draft legal acts and has participated in the formation of the normative basis for the Official Language Law.
It has 21 full members, 19 foreign members and 15 honorary members, and its current (as of 2017) president is Xosé Antón González Riaño.
Loss of grammatical gender in English appears to have occurred first in the north and east, the regions of greatest Scandinavian settlement.
Analysis of these restrictions can lead to discoveries about the structure and development of a language.
In the 1920s, language began to be seen as a social phenomenon, and Russian and Soviet linguists tried to give a sociological explanation to features of language.
It has previously gone by a number of names, including the Academy of the Korean Language (국어연구소) when it was first founded as a non-government organization in 1984, and the National Academy of the Korean Language (국립국어연구원) when it became a government agency in 1991.
Research bulletin One of the activities of the TSKK is the publication of a research bulletin called Sod.
Aims The linguistic and literary study of Valencian, inside the general frame of the Catalan language and literature.
The Academy has been given some awards and distinctions, and it has the support of notable cultural and political personalities, along with the patronage of the Spanish Monarchy.
in linguistics in 1995 from the University of California at Berkeley, writing her dissertation under the supervision of Robin Lakoff, and has held academic positions at Stanford, Yale, and Rutgers Universities.
The Fryske Akademy (West Frisian pronunciation: [ˈfriskə akəˈdeːmi]; Frisian for Frisian Academy), founded in 1938, is the scientific centre for research and education concerning Friesland and its people, language and culture, this in its broadest sense.
The Himalayan Languages Project was officially commissioned by the government of Bhutan to devise a standard romanization of Dzongkha.
A pilot project to create a small corpus of spoken Bulgarian was carried out jointly by the Universities of Sofia (Bulgaria) and Reading (U.K.).
Троцкий (Leon Trotsky): Формальная школа поэзии и марксизм (глава из книги «Литература и революция», 1923) (in Russian: Russian)
Jha has been described as "the most noteworthy contribution to the field of Maithili linguistics." == References ==
The Office québécois de la langue française (pronounced [ɔfis kebekwa də la lɑ̃ɡ fʁɑ̃sɛːz], OQLF; lit.
History It was decided in a draft on 7 August 1912, a month after a July 10 conference led by Cai Yuanpei, that a set of phonetic symbols were to be used for education purposes.
Mildura The Mildura Campus was established in 1996, co-located with the main campus of the Sunraysia Institute of TAFE.
The academy is also the home of Fryske Rie foar Heraldyk, a heraldic advisory board for the Frisian region.
The new version of Lingua Libre is based on MediaWiki, uses Wikibase and OAuth to better integrate into the Wikimedia environment.
It was dissolved under political pressure as "formalism" came to be a political term of opprobrium in the Soviet state.
The Akademie was founded in Bloemfontein in 1909, and its branch, the Spellingskommissie ("Spelling Commission"), in 1914.
There was an Office Building at the Heart of the Kohima Town, which was known as "LAL GHAR" due to painting with Red color.
The transcription system is explained by Williams, and an experiment was conducted by Brian Pickering to assess the degree of agreement between the two transcribers on a section of the Corpus containing around 1000 tone-units which was transcribed by both transcribers.
The child's understanding of the tints or shade of a hue increases when presented by older individuals around them.
The Slavic Linguistic Atlas The Slavic Linguistic Atlas (Russian Общеславянский лингвистический атлас) represents ongoing work, beginning in 1958, with several periodic progress reports being issued over the following decades.
The corpus can be browsed, for example by the author's name or date of the text, and all texts can be downloaded in plain text format.
Notable members Among the most notable current members of the council are: Jerzy Bartmiński Andrzej Blikle Jerzy Bralczyk Andrzej Markowski Jan Miodek References External links Official webpage
The project is a venture by the Department of English Language and STELLA project at the University of Glasgow.
The Russian Academy or Imperial Russian Academy (Russian: Академия Российская, Императорская Российская академия) was established in St.
Heinrich Beck: Die germanischen Sprachen der Völkerwanderungszeit, in: Werner Besch / Anne Betten / Oskar Reichmann / Stefan Sonderegger (ed.), Sprachgeschichte.
The School's main objective was to popularise contemporary achievements in its many academic fields.
Its successor, the Academy of the Hebrew Language, has continued this mission of creating new Hebrew words to keep up modern usage.
Baugh's contributions to forensic linguistics have built upon his formulation of linguistic profiling, and his work has been used in legal cases involving hostile work environments, unequal access to housing, and murder.
The audio and text files, together with time-aligned phonetic labels, are stored in a format for use with speech analysis software (Xwaves and Wavesurfer).
The Bijankhan corpus (Persian: پیکرهٔ بی‌جن‌خان) is a tagged corpus that is suitable for natural language processing (NLP) research on the Persian language.
The Institute for the Croatian Language (Croatian: Institut za hrvatski jezik, IHJ), formerly known as the Institute for the Croatian Language and Linguistics until 2023, is a state-run linguistics institute in Croatia whose purpose is to "preserve and foster" the Croatian language.
Between 7 and 10 months the infant starts putting words together, for example "mama" and "dada", but these words lack meaning and significance.
It works to promote tribal languages like Gojri, preserve folklore and oral traditions, and support academic and field-based research on tribal history, lifestyle, and socio-economic conditions.
Since then the number of members has increased and includes prominent figures in the Manx speaking community such as Bob Carswell and Phil Gawne.
All the texts have tags bearing metatextual information - the author, his/her birth date, creation date, text size, text genres (general fiction, detective story, newspaper article etc.); all these categories are browsable and searchable separately.
In collaboration with other organizations it also published a cultural magazine entitled Hiidenkivi until 2012.
Adamyan References External links Official website International Scientific-Educational Center of National Academy of Sciences of Armenia
This includes promoting opportunities to use Welsh and encourage best practice in the use of Welsh by people dealing with other persons, or providing services to other persons.
On June 19, 2012, Vladimir Alpatov became the director of the Institute of Linguistics, as elected by general meeting of all the researchers of the institute.
Petersburg linguistic group OPOJAZ; between them, these two groups (together with the later Prague linguistic circle) were responsible for the development of Russian formalist literary semiotics and linguistics.
The governing body for Classical Tamil Institute (TLPB) was also changed as Aimperumkuzhu (literally "5-membered great team") and Enperayam (literally "8-membered great committee") under two vice-chairmen, V.
The influence and position of British Latin declined when the Roman economy and administrative structures collapsed in the early 5th century.
A community of practice is a group of people who, through interaction and shared context, define a set of practices based upon language style, values, belief systems, dynamics of power, and performance.
It may provide information about the context or allow the user to search by positional attributes, such as lemma, tag, etc.
The principal researchers were Gerry Knowles and Tamas Varadi (Lancaster) and Peter Roach and Simon Arnfield (Leeds).
The Welsh Language Commissioner (Welsh: Comisiynydd y Gymraeg) is a Welsh Government officer, overseeing an independent advisory body of the same name.
In 1958, on the 1100th anniversary of the birth of the founder of Persian-Tajik literature Abuabdullo Rudaki, the institute was named in his honour.
Internationalization the adoption of a non-indigenous language as a means of wider communication, as an official language or in a particular domain, such as the use of English in India, Singapore, the Philippines, Papua New Guinea, and South Africa.
There have been unsuccessful attempts to enshrine the position of the Czech language and its minders in legislation, akin to the Language law of Slovakia.
It coordinates with the General Commission of Terminology and Neologisms the development of terminology lists by the specialized committees of terminology and the French Academy.
Old Saxon again differs, having ē, but forms with reflexes similar to those in Frisian and Old English are also found in some early Old Saxon texts, namely ā and ǣ.
The Saint-Germain-des-Prés Library is university library at Université Paris-Cité, located in rue des Saints-Pères, in the Latin Quarter of Paris.
Since its inception, it has had 5 directors: Professor Wálé Adébánwí (2008-2011) Dr Ìyábọ̀ Basir (2011-2012) Dr.
1 – 7 were issued in 1989 Confrontational research of the Slavic languages vocabulary Czech-Slovak Dictionary, 2nd ed.
The board aims to strengthen and further develop the Faroese language and advise the Faroese government on language issues.
The Runic Inscriptions (being written from the 2nd century) may mean that the north and West broke up in the 2nd and 3rd centuries.
See also A Comprehensive Grammar of the English Language The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language Notes References D.
This interministerial council had resulted in a series of measures, including the allocation of additional budget posts, to strengthen the teaching of Tamazight in the Algerian education system, and to expand training and research in Tamazight at the level of Algerian universities.
Estimating the total number of attested ancient languages may be as difficult as estimating their corpus size.
Different regulations and circulars has been issued since, most important the orthography reform of 1948.
Culture can be considered as a series of texts, a supercode of textuality, or a memory storage pattern utilizing texts.
General Session and Parasession on Theoretical Issues in Language Reconstruction: Proceedings of the Fifteenth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, 1988-1989.
General Session and Parasession on the Legacy of Grice: Proceedings of the Sixteenth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, 1989-1990.
The linguistic circle was founded in the Café Derby in Prague, which is also where meetings took place during its first years.
Publications The Irish-language publisher An Gúm, established by the Irish Free State, became part of Foras na Gaeilge in 1999.
(2019): Acceptability Ratings in Linguistics: A Practical Guide to Grammaticality Judgments, Data Collection, and Statistical Analysis.
This functionality is also available as a separate service called OneClick Terms with a dedicated interface.
The digital version of the Oxford English Corpus is formatted in XML and usually analysed with Sketch Engine software.
Washback effect in testing is typically seen as either negative, or positive (sometimes referred to as washforward).
This ended in 1938 when the Royal Flemish Academy of Belgium for Science and the Arts and the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium were set up.
ANLA is part of the Alaska & Polar Regions Special Collections and Archives at the University of Alaska Fairbanks Rasmuson Library.
Structuralism in Literature: An Introduction is a nonfiction book by literary critic and theorist Robert Scholes.
Charles Albert Ferguson (July 6, 1921 – September 2, 1998) was an American linguist who taught at Stanford University.
The corpus includes rich text materials from the blogosphere, social networks, major news sources and literary magazines.
From 1987 to 1999 she was a professor in the Department of Linguistics at Northwestern University, serving as the Department chair from 1996-1999.
The university is also home to the Centre for Dialogue, an interdisciplinary research institution which delves into certain intercultural and inter-religious conflicts, both in the domestic setting and in international relations.
Notable semioticians working in the Copenhagen–Tartu school are: Kalevi Kull, Jesper Hoffmeyer, Claus Emmeche, Frederik Stjernfelt, Søren Brier, Peeter Torop, Timo Maran, Mihhail Lotman.
Seminars, lectures, and live and/or online cultural events are featured on the League for Yiddish's YouTube channel.
Other features include the ability to search for collocations, frequency statistics as well as metadata information about the processed text.
At Stanford, he was a co-founder of the Center for the Study of Language and Information and directed it from 1986 to 1987 and 2006 to 2007.
Only scientific publications are included, and applied linguistic publications are listed only if they have theoretical implications.
Occasionally also the name 'Tartu–Bloomington–Copenhagen school' has been used, as having succeeded the earlier Tartu–Moscow school.
The concepts elaborated in the group's first major publication (A General Rhetoric 1970) contributed to the revival of rhetorics at the time, by providing an explanatory model of rhetorical figures, which drew on contemporary concepts of linguistic structure.
She is best known as one of the architects (with Ronald Kaplan) of the theoretical framework of lexical functional grammar.
The text recognises the unity of the Catalan-Valencian language and the right of using both denominations for the same language, and asks political organisations to avoid the politicization of linguistics.
It was run by the registrar in-charge and the secretary of the sports, youth and cultural activities department; ex-offcio.
Goals of the project The project has the status of an educational and scientific one, and many tasks of computational linguistics are solved by independent researchers and research groups with the materials obtained by GICR.
It carries out state supervision with the primary task of ensuring that the Language Act and other legal acts regulating language use are observed.
Corpus linguistics and its statistical analyses can reveal (regularity of) patterns of co-occurrences within a language and enable the working out of typical collocations for its lexical items.
communication related functions (such as text reception, text production, text revision, text editing, and translation – which are all text-dependent) and knowledge related or cognitive functions (such as gaining knowledge in general or about a specific topic unrelated to a specific text).
The difference between acceptability and grammaticality is linked to the distinction between performance and competence in generative grammar.
Its mission is to lead, at the interdepartmental level, the language policy of France, concerning both the French and regional languages.
2000 Territorial differentiation of Slovak dialects within the Slovak territory as well as Slavic countries and the Carpathian area Atlas of the Slovak Language, 4 vol., 1968 – 1984 Slavic Linguistic Atlas, up to now Carpathian Dialectological Atlas, 8 vol, introductory (unnumbered) vol.
A collection of other dictionaries and grammars have also been published, all based exclusively on the evidence from the Bank of English.
Saol (meaning 'life'), also known as Saol na Gaeilge, was a free Irish-language monthly newspaper that was funded by Foras na Gaeilge.
A possible disadvantage of this treatment is that the corpus can only be searched using specially written scripts.
In 2006, he was honored with a festschrift titled Intelligent linguistic architectures: variations on themes by Ronald M.
Morphological representation Morphological representations (MorphR) in meaning–text theory are implemented as strings of morphemes arranged in a fixed linear order reflecting the ordering of elements in the actual utterance.
110-word list The Global Lexicostatistical Database includes basic word lists of 110 items each for many of the world's languages.
Consequently, a usage-based model accounts for these rule-governed language behaviours by providing a representational scheme that is entirely instance-based, and able to recognize and uniquely represent each familiar pattern, which occurs with varying strengths at different instances.
A corpus manager usually represents a complex tool that allows one to perform searches for language forms or sequences.
Jae Jung Song argues that the frequency explanation is circular—certain patterns are often used by people because they are frequent—and that the explanation of frequency issues must be found outside themselves.
The Association of Academies of the Spanish Language (Spanish: Asociación de Academias de la Lengua Española; ASALE) is an entity whose end is to work for the unity, integrity, and growth of the Spanish language.
The National Council for the Maltese Language is a member of the EFNIL (European Federation of National Institutions for Language) in the EU.
On 12 December 1928, the commission was renamed to the Preparatory Committee for the Unification of the National Language, headed by Woo Tsin-hang and had 31 members.
Then, the corpus is annotated automatically on several levels: morphosyntantic, named entities recognition (e.g.
It was founded in Ibadan, Oyo State, Nigeria in October 2007 following a retreat of young Yoruba professionals.
The Krste Misirkov Institute for the Macedonian Language (Macedonian: Институт за македонски јазик „Крсте Мисирков“, Institut za makedonski jazik „Krste Misirkov“) is the regulatory body of the Macedonian language and is a part of Ss.
He developed (with Martin Kay) the mathematical, linguistic, and computational concepts that underlie the use of finite-state phonological and morphological descriptions.
The Academy of Sciences of Albania (Albanian: Akademia e Shkencave e Shqipërisë), founded in 1972, is the most important scientific institution in Albania.
To assess the proposal, the Academy set up a Class III Commission, whose efforts culminated in the founding of the oldest academy department – the Office of the Dictionary of the Czech Language – in 1911.
"Gaul, considered as a whole, is divided into three parts." It is also possible for the subject to follow the copula: plēna erant omnia timōris et lūctūs.
The corpus is non-free in that it is not free for commercial use, although these restrictions vary by country.
Many of the project's members belong to the Moscow School of Comparative Linguistics, including Georgiy Starostin and Ilia Peiros.
from MIT in 1985, his dissertation being about suprasegmental phenomena in the phonology of Japanese.
The whole corpus has a searchable tagging concerning lexical semantics (LS), including morphosemantic POS subclasses (proper noun, reflexive pronoun etc.), LS characteristics proper (thematic class, causativity, evaluation), derivation (diminutive, adverb formed from adjective etc.).
Revised Ōno's lexical law by Mizutani Let the rates of noun usage in the lexicon of 3 arbitrary literary works A, B, and C be X 0 , x , X 1 {\displaystyle X_{0},x,X_{1}} , respectively.
Unlike on-line searchable corpora, which due to copyright restrictions allow access only to individual sentences, the entire ANC is available to enable research involving, for example, development of statistical language models and full-text linguistic annotation.
Other languages have such limited corpora that some important words—e.g., some pronouns—are lacking in the corpora.
State Language Centre was assigned additional functions in 2009 after its merger with Translation and Terminology Centre.
the Father Tongue hypothesis: As a consequence, the female-specific diversity of our genome would fit less well with geography and linguistics than would our male-specific component.
However, the nature of individual change is generally found to be not the rejection of new variants by older speakers, as associated with the age-grading model, but the late adoption of new variants by adults who learned older variants as children.
Lee (2022) 91 A Grammar of Gurindji – Felicity Meakins, Patrick McConvell (2021) 92 A Grammar of Ngardi – Thomas Ennever (2021) 96 A Grammar of Teotitlán del Valle Zapotec – Ambrocio Gutiérrez, Hiroto Uchihara (2026) 97 A Grammar of Pangkhua – Zahid Akter (2024) 99 A Grammar of Hmong.
Considering an underlying text corpus, a word sketch quintuple is a quintuple consisting of headword, grammatical relation, collocation, position of headword in the corpus, position of collocation in the corpus (e.g.
Likewise, some entirely Old English names explicitly point to Roman structures, usually using Latin loan-words or to the presence of Brittonic-speakers.
Ferguson is best known for his seminal article on diglossia, published in 1959 and (reprinted since then in other publications) and frequently cited by others, listed by Google Scholar as having been cited over 9,000 times.
Gul Mohammed Noorzai, a historian, writer, and linguist as a result of the merging of older academic associations.
This text will follow the usual course at the level of the Government and the Council of Ministers before reaching the Algerian Parliament in the first half of 2018.
The corpus is created either by adding text files from the local drive (in any language and format), or by indicating websites from which texts are to be downloaded.
At first the Institute functioned as a component part of the Faculty of Philosophy, but soon it turned into a separate scholarly institution with independent financing.
Structure and the Whole: East, West and Non-Darwinian Biology in the Origins of Structural Linguistics.
It thus differs from a nonce word, which may never be recorded, may find currency and may be widely recorded, or may appear several times in the work which coins it, and so on.
Criticism The GKA has been accused of being biased against Konkani publications in the Roman script in the past.
Another debate concerns whether the term semantic/discourse prosody only relates to positive/negative meaning (narrow definition) or to more complex attitudinal/functional meaning.
Project Marayum is a language organization by the team of computer scientists and linguists from the University of the Philippines.
In 2005, the Language Service for state bodies was also established following a decision in the Storting.
Also years after having been tasked to translate the French Larousse, there was no Turkish translation of it.
Slovak Language (Slovak: Slovenská reč), a scientific journal devoted to the research of the Slovak language.
The main issues identified were language of service (34%), language of websites (11%) and language of public display (17%).
At the same time, Soviet linguists sought to develop a "Marxist" linguistics, as opposed to the early theories that were viewed as bourgeois.
References External links Official website Dictionary of the Lithuanian Language Archived 11 August 2017 at the Wayback Machine Creating the Electronic Version of the Dictionary of the Lithuanian Language Eighth United Nations Conference on the Standardization of Geographical Names
However, English is a VO language, which means that the morphological word 'loves' associated with the V-v-T chain is spelled in v, deriving the correct word order.
The project recruits graduate students to collect field data on little-known languages for their Ph.D.
The area Research Coordination and Research Infrastructure deals with tasks and projects related to the internal and external communication of information and networking.
Claimed characteristics Speculation on the "characteristics" of Proto-World is limited to linguistic typology, i.e.
The International Auxiliary Language Association ceased to exist in 1954, and according to the secretary of Union Mundial de Interlingua "Interlingua doesn't need its Academy".
words, suffixes), arguing that they can survive language change through frequent usage or by participating in usage-based generalizations if their syntactic, semantic or pragmatic features overlap with other similar constructions.
It was created by the queen Maria I of Portugal, on 24 December 1779, during the Age of Enlightenment.
In probability theory and statistics, the Zipf–Mandelbrot law is a discrete probability distribution.
It is a library reserved for scientific research, mainly for grad students, scholars, social and human scientists from all universities and scientific centers.
According to their school of thought, the main function of language is communication, and it is this fact that guides the formulation of grammatical hypotheses and constrains the form these hypotheses can take.
The Language Inspectorate was established to oversee the implementation of the Language Act, with subsequent revisions to the Act occurring in 1995 and 2011.
Until that year, there were certain differences between those who wanted to use a more distinctly Galician norm and those who wanted total convergence with the Orthographic Agreement.
Tallinn: Tallinn University Press, 679–688.] A distinctive feature of TMS was the combination of structuralist and semiotic approaches to language, literature and culture.
Its historical primary campus consists of several buildings spread over Leiden, while a second campus located in The Hague houses a liberal arts college (Leiden University College The Hague) and several of its faculties.
A language council, also known as a language regulator or a language academy, is an organisation that performs language planning or regulation.
However, the history of modern Assam, modern Assamese language and literature and culture found their starting points in the early part of the 19th century.
With rates Y 0 , y , Y 1 {\displaystyle Y_{0},y,Y_{1}} for usage of another word class of the same 3 literatures, respectively, then 3 points, ( X 0 , Y 0 ) , ( x , y ) , ( X 1 , Y 1 ) {\displaystyle (X_{0},Y_{0}),(x,y),(X_{1},Y_{1})} will approximately be located on a line.
In November 2017, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau nominated Raymond Théberge, the President and Vice-Chancellor of Université de Moncton, as the commissioner replacing Fraser.
Bolshakov) Example of collocations for the word "Surgery" at wordassociations.net Example of collocations for the word "study" at collocations.org
The study confirmed that speaking time had the highest correlation with leadership emergence, surpassing other factors such as intelligence, agreeableness, and game proficiency.
Jacques Lautman, head of CNRS' Human and Society sciences department, decided to change its name in «Bibliothèque de sociologie du CNRS» (CNRS Sociology Library) in 1986.
Due to the efforts of the Sabha, notably Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya, from 1900, the use of Nagari was allowed, and it became mandatory for government employees to know both Hindi and Urdu.
'Crystal clear', 'middle management', 'nuclear family', and 'cosmetic surgery' are examples of collocated pairs of words.
The following shared innovations, which must have taken place in Proto-Northwest Germanic, can be noted: Lowering of stressed *ē to *ā.
Corpus languages are studied using the methods of corpus linguistics, but corpus linguistics can also be used (and is commonly used) for the study of the writings and other records of living languages.
Trees at this level represent dependency relations between lexemes (or between lexemes and a limited inventory of abstract entities such as lexical functions).
An on-line searchable database of the LSI is available, providing an excerpt for each word as it appeared in Grierson's original publication.
There is also a department of Urdu Informatics (اردو اطلاعیات) to carry out research in developing the suitable hardware and software for the use of language in electronic media.
Kharkiv School was an interdisciplinary centre with academics working on linguistic theory, publishing teaching materials, collecting Ukrainian folklore, writing their own poems and plays, as well as advocating for the importance of Ukrainian language and culture.
The Academy has more than 300 research fellows, divided into three main groups: social science, natural sciences, and Islamic studies.
As the boundaries are variable there is no strict definition of how a Text can be made of subject matter, and instead it emphasizes the cultural signification seen in comparing the boundaries of the text to its use in society.
Their role as the language regulator for Maltese has been criticised by some Maltese academics as overly prescriptivist, especially for the Maltese diaspora.
This law is named after the American linguist George Kingsley Zipf, and is still an important concept in quantitative linguistics.
The Y-chromosomal lineage L could potentially reflect an earlier patrilingual dispersal of the proposed Elamo-Dravidian family emanating from a region in modern-day Iran.
List of elicitation techniques Interviews Existing System Project Scope Brain Storming Focus Groups Exploratory Prototypes User Task Analysis Observation Surveys Questionnaire Story Board References Elisitasi: Proses dan Metode untuk Merancang Sistem Baru yang Efektif
In 2024, Baugh joined the faculty of Rice University as the Barbara Jordan Distinguished Professor of Linguistics.
The dictionary was first published in 1991 and it is currently in its second edition, with entries over 15,000.
One case that gained international attention in 2013 was dubbed "Pastagate", in which the OQLF cited an Italian restaurant for using the word "Pasta" on its menu instead of the French word "pâtes".
On January 18, 2022, the NIKL announced several new initiatives: It would create a Korean language proficiency diagnosis system that leveraged assistance from artificial intelligence.
2, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press Bickerton, Derek (1991), "On the Supposed 'Gradualness' of Creole Development", Journal of Pidgin and Creole Languages, 6: 25–58, doi:10.1075/jpcl.6.1.03bic Hall, Robert (1966).
Latin Deproeliantis, a participle of the word deproelior, which means "to fight fiercely" or "to struggle violently", appears only in line 11 of Horace's Ode 1.9.
It is composed by the University of Valencia, the University of Alicante and the University Jaume I, from Castellón de la Plana, i.e., the three Valencian universities with superior philology studies.
The Oxford English Corpus (OEC) is a text corpus of 21st-century English, used by the makers of the Oxford English Dictionary and by Oxford University Press' language research programme.
The project distinguishes about 6,000 languages currently spoken around the world, and aims to provide a detailed classification similar to the accepted classification of biological species.
Debates There are debates about whether the regular co-occurrence of a particular word with positive/negative words results in that word acquiring a positive or negative connotation.
Their output from these endeavors has included dictionaries, monographs, computer collections and databases, as well as a large historical Russian music library.
Criticism Nativism is sometimes perceived as being too vague to be falsifiable, as there is no fixed definition of when an ability is supposed to be judged "innate".
Functions The CICT is engaged in the task of developing Tamil through various programmes of its own.
This simple rank-vs.-frequency relationship was noted for an extraordinary variety of phenomena by George Kingsley Zipf (for example, see his The Psychobiology of Language), and is known as Zipf's law.
The commissioner's role The commissioner may do anything they consider appropriate to: Promote the use of Welsh Facilitate the use of Welsh Work towards ensuring that Welsh is treated no less favourably than English.
The Academia de la Llingua Asturiana or Academy of the Asturian Language (ALLA) is an Official Institution of the Government of the Principality of Asturias that promotes and regulates the Asturian language, a language of the Spanish autonomous community of Asturias.
Deep syntactic relations between lexemes at DSyntR are restricted to a universal inventory of a dozen or syntactic relations including seven ranked actantial (argument) relations, the modificative relation, and the coordinative relation.
This discrepancy in timescales undermines the idea that human vocal flexibility was initially driven by selection pressures for speech, thus not excluding that it was selected for e.g.
This stage must also ensure that any proposed more definite meaning is consistent with all other instances, but must also allow for the possibility of homonyms with different meanings and morphemes with more than one purpose.
It is composed of 42 members, in addition to having members who serve as academic advisors, as well as honorary members.
OPOJAZ (ОПОЯЗ) (Russian: Общество изучения Поэтического Языка, Obščestvo izučenija POètičeskogo JAZyka, "Society for the Study of Poetic Language") was a prominent group of linguists and literary critics in St.
Some Welsh names for places in England may have ancient etymologies independent of the English forms.
The need for national homogenization, enlightenment, as well as the publication of Serbian books, were the main reasons for the formation of such a Society.
Each document in the OE Corpus is accompanied by metadata including: title author (if known; many websites make this difficult to determine reliably) author gender (if known) language type (e.g.
Starting in 1997, The Icelandic Language Institute created a database on the internet, which contained 52 special glossaries compiled for use in specific areas of focus.
External links Official website Video: 50 years of Linguistics at MIT, Lecture 1, Lexicon-syntax interactions == References ==
The second class of the Institut was responsible for the French language, and corresponded to the former Académie Française.
History Created in 1989 under the name "General Delegation for the French language" (DGLF), it became in 2001 the "General Delegation for the French language and the languages of France" to take into account regional languages.
Thus, hybrid models offer a single explanation for both rule-based language behaviours as well as item-based language behaviours.
The following table contains these extra phonemes, but note that the extent to which some of these may exist due to encoding errors is not clear.
External links Official website Urdu Wikipedia Urdu COMPUTING Magazine Download editable and offline dictionaries: Urdu, English, roman Urdu, Persian, roman Hindi
Commissioners Lee Reynolds On 28 October 2025, Lee Reynolds was appointed the first Ulster-Scots Commissioner.
Except regular biennially seasons in 2000 and 2002 special session was held at Jorhat and Kalgachia.
Dhivehi Language Academy (Dhivehi: ދިވެހިބަހުގެ އެކެޑަމީ, romanized: Dhivehibahuge Ekedamee), is the national academy for promoting the Dhivehi language in the Maldives, established on 8 August 2011.
Schools and teachers were accountable for student test performance, and thus focused on the skills and outcomes that the tests measured.
The lexical hypothesis is a major basis for the study of the Big Five personality traits, the HEXACO model of personality structure and the 16PF Questionnaire and has been used to study the structure of personality traits in a number of cultural and linguistic settings.
The dataset, therefore, offers a snapshot of the Welsh language across a range of contexts of use, e.g.
In the formula, k {\displaystyle k} is the rank of the data, and q {\displaystyle q} and s {\displaystyle s} are parameters of the distribution.
The Icelandic Language Institute was a department within the Ministry of Education, Science, and Culture of Iceland, and its role was to officially answer questions regarding characteristics of the Icelandic Language, as well as to provide benchmarks and guidelines for educators of Icelandic.
The board must also be observant to find linguistic errors that are committed and then try to prevent the errors from becoming widespread.
Lhuyd's team also produced sketches and plans of antiquities and ancient monuments, including Boskednan stone circle and Chûn Castle.
The Institute of Modern Languages (IML) is an institute of the University of Dhaka in Bangladesh dedicated to teaching various modern languages including Bengali, English, French, German, Russian, Spanish, Italian, Arabic, Persian, Turkish, Mandarin Chinese, Japanese, Korean, and Hindi.
(Introduction.) Selected papers "Rules of Interpretation—An Approach to the Problem of Computation in the Semantics of Natural Language", in Proceedings of the Second International Congress of the International Federation for Information Processing, 1962.
The Academy has a library which houses a good collection of books and magazines in Tulu and Kannada.
References External links Gerbang Bahasa | Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka Brunei website Archived 4 July 2017 at the Wayback Machine (in Malay) Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka Brunei website (in Malay) Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports website (in Malay)
History Dhivehi Academy was established after the abolition of the Maldives National Centre for Linguistic and Historic Research, which was locally known as Dhivehi Bahaai Thaareekhah Khidhumaiy Kuraa Qaumee Marukaz.
Studies in Slavic and General Linguistics (SSGL) (ISSN 0169-0124) is an academic book series that was founded in 1980 by A.A.
Since George van Driem's move to the University of Bern, many members of the Himalayan Languages Project are now based out of Switzerland.
Like Saussure, CSL considers a language to be a kind of system “où tout se tient” (where everything depends on or influences everything else).
The commissioner's work is politically independent, and the position of a commissioner lasts seven years.
Language and adolescence Eckert's focus on language in adolescence and preadolescence began in the early eighties with Jocks and Burnouts, an ethnographic project set in suburban Detroit high schools.
Her research investigates the lexical semantics of verbs, particularly the representation of events and the kind of morphosyntactic devices that English and other languages use to express events and their participants.
The term universal grammar (or UG) is used for the purported innate biological properties of the human brain, whatever exactly they turn out to be, that are responsible for children's successful acquisition of a native language during the first few years of life.
A noisy parallel corpus contains bilingual sentences that are not perfectly aligned or have poor quality translations.
During the 1960s and 1970s, the school was centered at the Department of Theoretical and Applied Linguistics of the Faculty of Philology at Moscow State University.
The criteria for inclusion of text samples were: written by native speakers, different fields, genres and topics.
He is also an avid bicyclist, and has been active combating homelessness and developing low-income housing in the Palo Alto area.
The Scottish Corpus of Texts & Speech (SCOTS) is an ongoing project to build a corpus of modern-day (post-1940) written and spoken texts in Scottish English and varieties of Scots.
But it remained essentially inactive, and according to the few reports that have appeared about it in the central organ of Volapük Volapukabled lezenodik its activities were limited to the approval of the decisions of Schleyer.
As the country's primary state research body, the National Academy encompasses over 34 scientific institutions and related organizations, all coordinated through its governing Presidium.
Although its field activities have reportedly reduced in recent years, the Foundation continues to contribute through research, documentation, and intellectual engagement.
NTM has also been organizing seminars on various aspects of translation with special reference to regional languages in different parts of the country.
Topogal Topogal is a software tool to check the spelling of place names in Galicia according to the international orthography of Galician.
The Language Service has two equal tasks: to promote plain language within the government and ensure more even distribution between Nynorsk and Bokmål in state documents.
Although SSGL is primarily intended to be a means of publication for linguists from the Low Countries, the editors are pleased to accept contributions by linguists from abroad.
Camilo José Cela, Marquis of Iria Flavia, 1957–2002, novelist Carlos Castilla del Pino, 2004–2009, neurologist, psychiatrist, essayist Pedro Álvarez de Miranda, since 2011 R seat Juan Curiel, 1714–1775.
According to Epstein, every word in use started out as a protologism, subsequently became a neologism, and then gradually grew to be part of the language.
Despite a large student backlash, La Trobe took advantage of the reforms, increasing fees by 25% in 2005.
In a case where a government revises a corpus, new dictionaries and educational materials will need to be revised in schools in order to maintain effective language acquisition.
ANLA is a member of the Open Language Archives Community and the Digital Endangered Languages and Musics Archives Network.
It was shown that three-day olds are able to discriminate bisyllabic stimuli with the same segments based on whether they were extracted from within a word or across a word boundary.
The text to be translated appears in the upper window and the translation will be composed in the bottom one." It is the form of the translator's amanuensis which is not a real device and never will.
It is possible to define a user's subcorpus to search lemmata/POS-grammeme/semantic tags combinations only within this subset.
Denham, says that Scholes aims to introduce the European literary theory of structuralism to English readers and to develop the principles of this theory.
A word whose developmental stage is between that of a protologism (freshly coined) and a neologism (a new word) is a prelogism.
research work into dictionary theory in general and it has built a solid, international reputation in that field.
It is supported by private funding from individuals and other nonprofits, including the Afẹ́nifẹ́re Renewal Group.
These separate research organizations were consolidated in 1935 to form the Armenian division of the Soviet Academy of Sciences, with Franz Julievich Levinson-Lessing serving as its first director.
Summary The Columbia School of Linguistics traces its origins through André Martinet and others back to Ferdinand de Saussure, the founder of modern linguistics.
A brief summary of its key activities over the years is as follows: Official script and language: Before the establishment of the institution, English and Urdu were the official languages and Kaithi was the most popular script.
It took its original name again on November 11, 2005, and again changed its name to its current form in October 2015.
Few dispute that Australopithecus probably lacked vocal communication significantly more sophisticated than that of great apes in general, but scholarly opinions vary as to the developments since the appearance of Homo some 2.5 million years ago.
It is the foremost authority on Finnish language planning and its recommendations are considered to define the standard Finnish which is used in official communication.
During the last 400 years, this was systematized in descriptions usually written by people with knowledge about the language, some with and without official status.
Resource: Indicators on the Presence of Languages in Internet, Pimienta D., Proceedings of the 1st Annual Meeting of the ELRA/ISCA Special Interest Group on Under-Resourced Languages, 2022.
As a graduate student he investigated how explicit computational models of grammar, particularly Augmented Transition Networks, could be embedded in models of human language performance, and he wrote the grammar for the LUNAR system, the first large-scale ATN grammar of English.
Elizabethan proposals In the early 1570s Humphrey Gilbert published The erection of an achademy in London, concerned with the education of wards and the younger sons of gentlemen.
The online search is available via web-interface search Bonito 2 which is a part of NoSketch Engine, limited version of the software Sketch Engine.
The Parishad arranges annual conferences runs Maharashtra Sahitya Patrika a Marathi quarterly, provides a reference library, conducts qualifying examinations in Marathi language and literature and classes for non-Marathi speakers in Pune.
She specializes in variationist sociolinguistics and is the author of several scholarly works on language and gender.
It contains 458,000 documents (188 million tokens) that are collected from sources such as websites, news agencies, books, and magazines.
Leiden University partnered with Duke University School of Law starting in 2017 to run a joint summer program on global and transnational law from its Hague campus.
There are eight project leaders, each working in one of the areas of the country who are supported by academicians.
For example, Greek and Latin sources hand down an enormous amount of foreign-language glosses, the seriousness of which is not always certain.
Underhill and Gianninoto argue that this is part of the complex ways ideological worldviews interact with the language as an ongoing means of perceiving and understanding the world.
To initiate, assist or undertake publication in Konkani language of original and erudite papers, monographs, books, journal, as also of any other works in any other branch of knowledge.
The institute was established in March 1953 in order to standardise the Macedonian language and to organise creative potentials in the sphere of Macedonian studies.
The project manages national and cultural linguistic apprehension in the Philippines in order to maintain preservation and to prevent extinction.
Internal structure The IIFV has a Board of Directors, a General Council and a Consultant Council, together with technical and auxiliary staff, and scholars.
At the same time, the Association led campaigns to replace the Arabic and Persian loanwords in the Turkish language.
The Council for the Polish Language (Polish: Rada Języka Polskiego) is the official language regulating organ of Polish.
According to the publisher's page, the journal is peer-reviewed and listed in the Russian Citation Index, SCOPUS, and "has the highest category [INT1] rating of the European Reference Index for the Humanities (ERIH)." Proceedings of the Russian Academy of Sciences.
Established in 1994 by Government of Karnataka, it is an autonomous organisation functioning from its own building - Tulu Bhawana in Mangalore, Karnataka.
Because its activities were organized in this way, and because it had to depend on uncertain sources of funding, the School from the outset had the character of a temporary expedient...
Projects The Tower of Babel website is the main lexical database for the Moscow School of Comparative Linguistics.
More specifically, the claim is that the inflectional and other losses in English resulted from Old Norse speakers' incomplete acquisition of English.
In January 2015, President of Somalia Hassan Sheikh Mohamud announced that the Regional Somali Language Academy was slated to be finalized in conjunction with the governments of Djibouti and Ethiopia.
He was awarded honorary doctorates from Copenhagen University in 2013 and from the University of York in 2019.
Tools such as the Perseus Digital Library and the Digital Corpus of Sanskrit have made it easier for researchers to access and analyze these texts.
Overview On 26 June 2013, the governments of Djibouti, Somalia, Ethiopia, Kenya and Somaliland, launched the Intergovernmental Academy Of Somali Languagea ceremony in Djibouti City.
Van de Velde (2008) 47 A Grammar of Wandala – Zygmunt Frajzyngier (2012) 49 A Grammar of Teiwa – Marian Klamer (2010) 50 A Grammar of Madurese – William D.
It hosted exhibitions, managed the sculpture park (which includes a controversial upside-down statue of Governor La Trobe by sculptor Charles Robb) was managed by LUMA., and collaborated with significant state, national and international projects.
How language acquisition builds on cognitive development Clark's accomplishments and reputation in linguistics is shown in her ability relate language acquisition to cognition.
YIVO director Jonathan Brent established the Edward Blank YIVO Vilna Online Collections project in 2014.
The exact functions varies from organisation to organisation and may include the establishment or promotion of an official or national language or orthography, research and documentation.
Effects may be superficial, indirect, and unpredictable due to individual differences in the way that learning is mediated by teachers, textbook writers, and publishers.
The empiricist theory suggests, contra Chomsky, that there is enough information in the linguistic input children receive and therefore, there is no need to assume an innate language acquisition device exists (see above).
See also Philosophy of language Theory of language Course in General Linguistics by Ferdinand de Saussure References Other reviews Prince, Gerald (1975).
See also Hapax legomenon, a word occurring only once in a given context, such as in the works of a particular author Neologism, a relatively recent or isolated term, word, or phrase that may be in the process of entering common use, but that has not yet been fully accepted into mainstream language.
The character encoding appears to be MacRoman, and hyphenation is indicated by a bullet (⟨•⟩, character value 165 decimal, or A5 hexadecimal).
The National Language Promotion Department is now an attached department of Ministry of National Heritage & Integration.
The association Verein kriegskind.de is among those that published search efforts (Suchbitten) to identify Lebensborn children.
The gross reproduction rate (GRR) is the average number of daughters a woman would have if she survived all of her childbearing years, which is roughly to the age of 45, subject to the age-specific fertility rate and sex ratio at birth throughout that period.
Angiosperms exhibit three patterns of megasporogenesis: monosporic, bisporic, and tetrasporic, also known as the Polygonum type, the Alisma type, and the Drusa type, respectively.
History The church gained early attention in 1995 because of its affiliation with paranoia.com, which hosted many controversial sites during the late 1990s and early 2000s.
These include sporadic wet and sporadic dry, describing animals that breed sporadically not always under favorable conditions of rain or lack thereof.
"Recommended practices for the management of embryology, andrology, and endocrinology laboratories: a committee opinion".
Virility (from the Latin virilitas, manhood or virility, derived from Latin vir, man) refers to any of a wide range of masculine characteristics viewed positively.
Background The TwoDay method is a simple fertility awareness method requiring users to check for cervical secretions twice a day.
In 1995, she received a Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBChB) from the University of Edinburgh Medical School.
In some versions, she buries each part where she finds it, causing the desert to put forth vegetation.
Some animals that are long day breeders include ring-tailed lemurs, horses, hamsters, groundhogs, and mink.
A single semen sample is not determining for disease diagnosis, so two different samples have to be analyzed with an interval between them of seven days to three months, as sperm production is a cyclic process.
The story deals with humanity in an age of intelligent machines and of the aching loneliness endemic in an overpopulated future where child creation is controlled.
The first plants were aquatic, as described in the page Evolutionary history of plants, and released sperm freely into the water to be carried with the currents.
The collection of semen is preserved by stabilizing the properties of the sperm cells such as the membrane, motility, and 'DNA integrity' in order to create a sustainable viable environment.
A decrease in estradiol as well as oxidative stress leads to apoptosis of the granulosa cells off the oocyte which deteriorates oocyte quality.
Moreover, some researchers have found that some men can have multiple orgasms, despite what Masters and Johnson had reported.
This is a list of women said to have given birth to 20 or more children and men said to have fathered more than 25 children.
He also helped to establish and advocate for the Office of Minority Affairs within the School of Medical Sciences at Arkansas.
It uses hormonal stimulation to trigger the production of multiple eggs, which are surgically removed and frozen for storage and future use.
Little evidence exists to suggest that high-fertility parents appear to be economically disadvantaged, further strengthening the fact that total fertility rates tend to be higher among women in rural areas.
In Tendai Buddhism Ugajin was syncretically fused with Buddhist goddess Benzaiten, which became known as Uga Benzaiten or Uga Benten.
In some cases these deities are directly associated with these experiences; in others they are more abstract symbols.
The success rate for is lower than most women expect, requiring, on average, about 10 frozen eggs to be used for each live birth.
List of countries 1950 to 2015 List of regions References External links United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs – Population Division – World Population Prospects, the 2017 Revision
Selective estrogen receptor modulators Clomiphene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM).
The sudden rise in calcium levels causes the flagellum to form deeper bends, propelling the sperm more forcefully through the viscous environment.
Practice Committee of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine; Practice Committee of the Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology; Practice Committee of the Society of Reproductive Biologists and Technologists (October 2014).
Career and research While a graduate student at the University of Iowa, Sherman also worked in the campus library and as a janitor in addition to his research assistant duties.
Trans-cervical sampling involves inserting a catheter through the cervix into the placenta to obtain villi; an ultrasound is used to guide the catheter to the site of sampling.
A person's access to contraception is critical for ensuring their optimal health and achieving their reproductive goals as it allows individuals to have control over their body and freedom to decide when to become a parent.
Medabon Medabon is another product developed by the Concept Foundation which induces medical abortion.
In an attempts to estimate the prevalence of AS in the general population, it was found in 1.5% of women undergoing hysterosalpingography HSG, and between 5 and 39% of women with recurrent miscarriage.
It was particularly useful in assessing the extent to which sperm from a potential donor could penetrate cervical mucus when artificial insemination was principally performed by ICI or IVI, rather than by IUI.
Biography John Billings was born in Melbourne and was educated at Xavier College, and at the University of Melbourne where he received his Doctor of Medicine degree.
A 1992 Danish meta-analysis, commonly known as the Carlsen study after its principal author, showed that between 1938 and 1990 a population described as healthy had experienced a significant decrease in sperm count and semen volume.
Those born after the Russian Revolution were explicitly told that they were to build a utopia of brotherhood and justice, and to not be like their parents, but completely Red.
His book Counselling in Male Infertility was published in 1996; he contributed to a number of newspaper articles and appeared on several current affairs television programmes.
Animal studies have demonstrated these genetic abnormalities, in addition to physical changes in the mitochondria themselves and reduced ATP production.
The exact percentage purity of each population is dependent on the species being sorted and the 'gates' which the operator places around the total population visible to the machine.
While genetics is not the exclusive cause of mating systems within animals, it is influential in many animals, particularly rodents, which have been the most heavily researched.
Immigrant sex workers in Malaysia who get pregnant have entered into such exchanges as it is illegal for them to bear children.
Black women were determined by the Western world to have a wild, promiscuous nature and immoral, loose, and impure practices and values.
It has remained popular for over eighty years, in large part because of the simplicity of the calculation.
It is believed that worshippers would push the pointed legs into the earth to erect a temporary shrine for the goddess.
Then, a flat layer cell forms on the exterior of this cavity, and the zona pellucida, the blastocyst's barrier, remains the same size as before.
For Easterlin, the size of the cohort is a critical determinant of how easy it is to get a good job.
It records that Amaterasu came to Emperor Yūryaku in a dream and told him she alone was not able to supply enough food and needed him to bring Toyuke-no-Ōkami (等由気大神), the kami of divine food, from Manai Pond in Hiji Village, Tanba Province.
The R0 is particularly relevant where sex ratios at birth are significantly affected by the use of reproductive technologies, or where life expectancy is low.
Neural connections between the sensory cortex and thalamus develop as early as 24 weeks of gestational age, but the first evidence of their function does not occur until around 30 weeks.
The majority of items were published from 1970 to the present, but there were selected citations dating back to 1827.
In the final analysis, doesn’t it make sense that those who see children as gifts from God would have more children than those who see children as economic cost units?
Sanger was mainly active in the United States, but had gained an international reputation by the 1930s.
This allows males (XY) to have equal genetic activity as females (XX), whose X's are not hyperactivated.
On February 19, 2020, the first pair of Cheetah cubs to be conceived through embryo transfer from a surrogate cheetah mother was born at Columbus Zoo in Ohio.
They may also develop incompetent cervix where the cervix can no longer support the growing weight of the fetus, the pressure causes the placenta to rupture, and the mother goes into premature labour.
Many consider the rhythm method to have been obsolete for at least 20 years, and some even exclude calendar-based methods from their definition of fertility awareness.
in: Michael von Wolff, Petra Stute: Gynäkologische Endokrinologie und Reproduktionsmedizin: Das Praxisbuch.
Tubal obstruction is caused by infection, endometriosis, myomas, salpingitis isthmica nodosa (SIN), or dried mucus.
While Rachel is devastated, Richard admits to being relieved that they are finally done with trying, as their marriage and intimacy have suffered.
Other national-government responses include recommendations by the UK's National Health Service for a healthy lifestyle and loose-fitting underwear to improve fertility.
that medical science should by the study of natural rhythms succeed in determining a sufficiently secure basis for the chaste limitation of offspring." This is interpreted as favoring the then-new, more reliable symptoms-based fertility awareness methods over the rhythm method.
Defoe accomplished this through anecdotes, such as a conversation between two women in which the right-minded chides the other for asking for "recipes" that might prevent pregnancy.
In both species more brightly colored males mated with more brightly colored females and less brightly colored individuals paired with one another.
He failed to notice that a trailer carrying a full-sized bulldozer had detached from the large dump truck he was driving, as he passed through South Jersey's largest traffic circle.
related in some way to woman's proper function as a fertile being (which allowed her to promote the fertility of crops too, by sympathy)".
Many people fear that if anonymous donation is made illegal, then the number of donors will decrease and there will not be enough supply.
Other plants with similar reproductive strategies include Psilotum, Lycopodium, Selaginella and Equisetum.
When controlling for the age of the female partner, comparisons between men under 30 and men over 50 found relative decreases in pregnancy rates between 23% and 38%.
The current (2015–20) estimate for the R0 worldwide under the UN's medium variant model is 1.09 daughters per woman.
Pharmacokinetics When ganirelix is given to healthy adult females, steady-state serum concentrations are reached, on average, after three days ("Ganirelix acetate injection," 2009).
One-third of the female population, thirteen million women, were actively engaged in a Nazi Party organisation, and female membership in the Nazi Party increased steadily until the end of the war.
In popular culture The Czech TV film Spring of Life (2000) tells the story of a Sudeten German teenager recruited as a future mother into a Lebensborn in Poland.
Where pregnancy occurs in these individuals, there are high risks associated with the health of the offspring due to pregnancy complications.
See also Sperm bank Gene bank Artificial insemination Genetic counseling Genetic testing New eugenics Safe upper age limit for women donating ova Eugenics Infertility Surrogacy Commercial surrogacy Assisted reproduction Designer babies == References ==
In vitro fertilization is the most well known of the assisted reproductive technology procedures performed at a fertility clinic.
The sociologist Jean Stoetzel (1910-1987), who founded IFOP in 1938 after working as an internee for Gallup in America, was a pioneer of survey studies at INED.
Like humans engaging in sexual activity primarily for pleasure, this behavior in these animals is also presumed to be for pleasure, and a contributing factor to strengthening their social bonds.
Individuals also reported that voluntary sterilization (for both males and females) was most common among Germany, Spain, and Denmark.
These references may be used by medical providers as well as patients to assess their eligibility to use individual contraceptives like birth control pills, intrauterine devices, and implants.
Also, morphological features of the oocyte that can be obtained by standard light or polarized light microscopy.
Reception Journalist and author Matthias Kamann saw AM as an attempt to give those in the AfD a platform "who want it to be hard conservative, but factual - not ethnic or insulting.
Identity In response to the disturbance caused by the unknown presence, Ibudhou Thangjing traveled from the northern foothills and met Ibudhou Oknarel.
See also Demographics of Russia References (2007) More than 1,476 thousand new Russians were born - 19 thousand more than in 2005 - Higher School of Economics
According to the American Eugenics Archive, "race suicide" conceptualizes a hypothetical situation in which the death rate of a particular "race" supersedes its birth rate.
When the sperm is exposed to chemo-attractant, especially progesterone; the sperm will exhibit sudden flagellar arrest, followed by sharp turn and hyperactivation.
Due to the lack of reliable evidence from controlled clinical trials, it is not certain which semen preparation techniques are more effective (wash and centrifugation; swim-up; or gradient) in terms of pregnancy and live birth rates.
These intersections of beliefs created Korea's own version of "Good Wife, Wise Mother" (Ryōsai Kenbo) called Hyonmo Yangcho.
Because of this, plant-based oral contraception in history is often contested, though archaeological and written record shows evidence that drugs were a reliable way to prevent conception or even induce early-term abortions.
There are many groups around the world which oppose to ARTs, including religious groups and pro-life charities such as LIFE.
Karachay-Cherkessia, Adygea and North Ossetia) and some parts of Arctic Russia (Murmansk, Komi, etc.).
Occurrence Trioecy is a relatively common sexual system in plants, estimated to occur in about 3.6% of flowering plant species, although most reports of trioecy could be misinterpretations of gynodioecy.
"Outcomes From Treatment of Infertility With Natural Procreative Technology in an Irish General Practice".
One of the biggest problems in women who have to undergo chemo- or radiotherapy is premature ovarian failure (premature ovarian insufficiency) and its associated infertility.
Shettles, Richard Einhorn, From Conception to Birth: The Drama of Life's Beginnings, Harper Row, 1971 Publications by Landrum B.
After his retirement from the VUB in September 2012 Professor Devroey joined the team of IVF centre Jan Palfijn Hospital in Ghent, where he focuses on the most challenging cases of infertility.
Durkheim suggests that the name "churinga" is normally a noun, but can also be used as an adjective meaning "sacred".
Diabetes mellitus and pregnancy deals with the interactions of diabetes mellitus (not restricted to gestational diabetes) and pregnancy.
According to this teaching, people should oppose him, abandon his world, not create people, and trust in the good God of mercy, foreign and distant.
These women could only use primitive methods of abortion, which led to infection, sterility, or even their own death.
Because of his link to the grape harvest, however, it is not surprising to see Dionysus associated with Demeter and Kore in the Eleusinian Mysteries.
The medium is replaced every 2 days and after 6 days the culture is fixed or frozen for further processing.
Diagnosis If both partners are young and healthy and have been trying to conceive for one year without success, a visit to a physician or women's health nurse practitioner (WHNP) could help to highlight potential medical problems earlier rather than later.
All medical content found on Bedsider was developed with the assistance of many experts who are a part of The National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy’s Medical Advisory Committee.
The prospective beneficence asymmetry: it is strange to mention the interests of a potential child as a reason why we decide to create them, and it is not strange to mention the interests of a potential child as a reason why we decide not to create them.
Poland's capitalist government and its chief of state, Marshal Józef Piłsudski, were fierce anti-communists; all parties or groups affiliated with Communist activities were banned and its members sent to Bereza Kartuska concentration camp in eastern Poland.
The World League for Sexual Reform officially came into existence on July 3, 1928, at its congress in Copenhagen.
The original painting is now lost, but a colossal copy of the painting exists, painted by the artist Titian and known as Venus Anadyomene by Titian.
Zygote intra fallopian transfer (ZIFT) is an infertility treatment used when a blockage in the fallopian tubes prevents the normal binding of sperm to the egg.
Once infection has been eliminated, surgery may be successful in opening the lumen of the fallopian tubes to allow a successful pregnancy and birth.
But if her peers decide she has crossed an invisible, constantly shifting boundary and has become too 'slutty,' she loses all credibility.
This type of life history is especially well known among certain bamboos (family Poaceae) some of which have a life cycle of 40 to 50 years.
Infant mortality rates are indicative of fertility rates as couples decide to have a lot children knowing that a number of them will die so that even after those children die, they have sufficient kids to aid in agricultural work.
Limitations Similar to other fertility awareness methods, the TwoDay Method requires women to abstain from vaginal sex or use a barrier method on days identified as fertile.
Many worshippers celebrate the day with carnations, coloured if the mother is living and white if she is dead.
The intent of these recommendations was to allow public health programs in individual countries to tailor contraceptive safety guidance to their particular populations.
Vegetation goddess figurines from the Cucuteni-Trypillian culture have a lozenge and dot pattern that represents a sown field and female fertility.
It acts as a buffer to protect sperm cells from their own toxic byproducts, as well as protecting the sperm from cold shock and osmotic shock during the chilling and shipping process (the semen is chilled to reduce metabolism).
Consultancy work with the UK division of Ares Serono (1986–1994) also involved work with the Bourn Hallam Group, which Patrick Steptoe and Bob Edwards had set up after Louise Brown's birth.
Philosophical issues The distinction in ethical value between existing persons and potential future persons has been questioned.
Loans were offered to married couples, with part of the loan cancelled for each new child, and any married man who had more than six children was made exempt from taxation.
in 1967, and entered the contact lens business when it acquired British lens maker GlobalVision in 1972.
OBGYN News, October 15–31, 1982, for example, reported on a study of undersea divers in Australia showing that their offspring were almost 2-1 female.
"'Reichsbund der Kinderreichen' : the League of Large Families in the Population Policy of Nazi Germany".
This was so unusual the Government sent someone out to the town to investigate the cause for the high birth rate.
Another organization that offers these services is the National Embryo Donation Center, which requires recipients to be a heterosexual couple that have been married for at least three years.
Ala is also responsible for many aspects of Igbo society and guardianship of women and children in general.
Cytoplasmic transfer was created to aid those who experience infertility due to deficient or damaged mitochondria, contained within an egg's cytoplasm.
81% of variation in ovarian reserve is due to age alone, making age the most important factor in female infertility.
Estradiol cypionate/medroxyprogesterone acetate (brand names Cyclofem, Lunelle; code name Cyclo-Provera), is a once-a-month combined injectable contraceptive which contains 25 mg of medroxyprogesterone acetate—the same ingredient in Depo Provera—and 5 mg of estradiol cypionate.
Pilgrims to Mecca and tombs of saints are also garlanded since it is believed they preserve the life force of a tree.
The average fertility rate in countries such as Thailand or Chile approached the mark of one child per woman, which triggered concerns about the rapid aging of populations worldwide.
Liberation of blood cell debris into the circulation will also cause disseminated intravascular coagulation.
"Conjugal Lewdness or, Matrimonial Whoredom" (later retitled "A Treatise Concerning the Use and Abuse of the Marriage Bed" for propriety) is a 1727 essay by Daniel Defoe.
In countries such as Canada, the UK, Australia and New Zealand, a maximum of two embryos are transferred except in unusual circumstances.
"Good Wife, Wise Mother" accompanied the existing phrase "wealthy country and strong army" (fukoku kyohei).
These cells remodel the spiral arteries to improve and secure maternal blood flow to the growing embryo.
In the cult, a mother goddess represented by a trinity was worshiped, along with a heroic young god would die and be reborn in an unending cycle due to his father, the supreme god.
Recently, a systematic review that looked at studies evaluating the link between RPL and smoking was unable to find a significant difference in risk of recurrent pregnancy loss between people that smoke and non-smokers.
federal government-promoted abstinence-only program was aimed at teens in 1981 in order to discourage premarital sex and unwanted pregnancies.
This cannot be seen as abortifacient because, by any of the above definitions, pregnancy has not started.
They led a nomadic agrarian lifestyle, including hunting, fishing, farming, and firewood collection, and had a daughter named Macha Ibemma.
Medications Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome is particularly associated with injection of a hormone called human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) which is used for inducing final oocyte maturation and/or triggering oocyte release.
The muscle that surrounds the vaginal opening grows tighter and the uterus elevates and grows in size.
Whereas cranial irradiation will disrupt the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis (HPG-A), causing subsequent disruption of hormone secretion.
Women who are breastfeeding or have recently used contraceptive injections must wait before using CycleBeads.
Women of reproductive age who undergo cytotoxic chemotherapy have been pretreated with GnRH agonists to reduce the risk of oocyte loss during such therapy and preserve ovarian function.
The jus trium liberorum (Latin, "the right of three children"; also spelled ius), was a privilege awarded to Roman citizens who had produced at least three children or to freedpersons who had produced at least four.
Women may choose between several methods of fertility preservation prior to chemotherapy, including cryopreservation of ovarian tissue, oocytes or embryos.
However, there is no clear tendency in recent publications to a general increase in predictive value of morphological features.
Due to the fact that women bear the children and therefore cannot reproduce as often as men, their records are often shared with or exceeded by their partners.
Courtship occurs before copulation and is often facilitated after receiving a chemical signal from pheromones.
Programs that covered both STD prevention and pregnancy, rather than just one topic alone, had more positive effects on teenagers use of effective contraception, as did programs that had interactive elements when compared to programs that did not.
The hypothesis as formulated by Richard Easterlin presumes that material aspirations are determined by experiences rooted in family background: he assumes first that young couples try to achieve a standard of living equal to or better than they had when they grew up.
Using this procedure that allows the detection of bacteria that cannot be cultured outside the body, studies of microbiota present in the uterus are expected to increase.
Neither candidate was elected, with party leader Herman Kelly receiving 2,441 (0.67%) first preference votes, and Cahill receiving 10,582 (1.47%) first preference votes.
In the same year, the short story was republished in the eponymous Aldiss short-story collection Supertoys Last All Summer Long and Other Stories of Future Time, along with the tie-in stories Supertoys When Winter Comes and Supertoys in Other Seasons.
The risk of having a large-for-gestational-age baby and higher birth rate, in addition to maternal hypertensive disorders of pregnancy may be increased using a "freeze all" strategy.
Origin The legend tells that the son, or daughter (in other versions), of the spirit Pillan Antu wanted the power of his father.
To achieve this end, it utilizes a number of factors that differentially favor one gender or the other, including timing of intercourse relative to ovulation time, position during sex and other factors.
Fusobacterium nucleatum, a Gram-negative bacteria commensal to the oral microbiome, is associated with periodontal disease and has been linked with a wide variety of health outcomes, including unfavorable pregnancy outcomes.
Cross-checking the cervical mucus with another donor semen will confirm whether antibodies are cervical or seminal.
This situation was presented in a 2001 documentary called Children Underground, which depicted the life of Romanian street children.
The flowering periodicity in all individuals is rarely 100%, with the result that flowering of rare individuals in non-mass-flowering years is not uncommon.
Generally, the main purpose of storing ova, at present, is to overcome infertility which may arise at a later age, or due to a disease.
For this reason the technique is unsuitable for routine use Moreover, even if Salpingoscopy is carried out in individual cases, the macroscopic examination is not fully revealing.
During this time, a male feels a deep and often pleasurable sense of relaxation, usually in the groin and thighs.
With mucus-only methods, there is a possibility of incorrectly identifying mid-cycle or anovulatory bleeding as menstruation.
The amount of screening the embryo has already undergone is largely dependent on the genetic parents' own IVF clinic and process.
Department of Health and Human Services proposed a regulation to protect certain actions of health workers: refusal to provide patient services that the health workers believe to be abortifacient.
In those who are overweight or obese, levonorgestrel is less effective and an IUD or ulipristal is recommended.
Preterm birth is associated with certain species of bacteria that are not normally part of the healthy uterine microbiome.
The Chinese government decided to allow families to have a second child to supposedly grow a bigger work force and allow the aging population to relax more.
In 2016, Toronto's Muddy York Brewing Company produced a Stork Derby Stout as a nod to the unusual event.
Prudence, Grace, and Ted manage to acquire supplies of pills, Grace through a prescription written by Huart, and Ted from the local chemist, or pharmacist, who happens to be a friend of his.
Alcohol Maternal alcohol use leads to disruptions of the fetus' brain development, interferes with the fetus' cell development and organization, and affects the maturation of the central nervous system.
The causes of a large percentage of stillbirths is unknown, even in cases where extensive testing and an autopsy have been performed.
Do it for Denmark is a Danish media and advertising campaign designed to increase the birth rate of the nation.
Subsequent reviews in 2000 and 2004 elaborated on the concept which has been extended to encompass all placental animals with live birth.
Embryos from rescued in vitro-matured metaphase II (IVM-MII) oocytes show significantly higher fertilization rates and more blastomeres per embryo compared with those from arrested metaphase I (MI) oocytes (58.5% vs.
Subjects covered internationally included family planning methods and programs, fertility, and population law and policy.
Xochiquetzal, goddess of fertility, beauty, female sexual power, protection of young mothers, pregnancy, childbirth, and women's crafts.
Juno is a member of the folate receptor family and is GPI-anchored to the plasmalemma of the mammalian egg cell that recognizes its sperm-riding counterpart, IZUMO1, and facilitates fertilization.
Eurostat calculates the fertility rate based on the information provided by national statistics Institutes affiliated to Eurostat.
Much of this was for foreign consumption, where it was widely disbelieved, with President Franklin D.
The law also imposed penalties on orbi, that is, married persons who had no children (qui liberos non habent, Gaius, ii.111) from the age of twenty-five to sixty in a man, and from the age of twenty to fifty in a woman.
They argue that a person can be created for the sake of their parents or other people, but that it is impossible to create someone for their own good; and that, therefore, following Kant's recommendation, we should not create new people.
Fertility options for women Options for women to have children after cancer have increased significantly in recent years.
For example, if you have 12 individuals in an age class and they produced 16 surviving young, the Fx is 16, and the mx is 1.336.
In postmenarchal girls, about 80% of the cycles are anovulatory (ovulation does not actually take place) in the first year after menarche, 50% in the third and 10% in the sixth year.
A small opening is made in the outer layer surrounding the egg in order to help the embryo hatch out and aid in the implantation process of the growing embryo.
For the male, semen collection is a standard diagnostic test to ascertain problems with the semen quality, while females may undergo a number of tests including an ovulation analysis, x-ray of fallopian tubes and uterus, and laparoscopy.
If the value is more than one that indicates that the next generation of women will outnumber the current one.
In continuous breeders, females are sexually receptive during estrus, at which time ovarian follicles are maturing and ovulation can occur.
Those who had three children living at Rome, four in Italy, and five in the provinces, were excused from the office of tutor or curator (Inst.
It is often regarded as the extent to which the generation of daughters replaces the preceding generation of women.
William McGurn, editor of the New York Post, reviewed the book favorably for the Wall Street Journal, but was critical of Last for having 'too much confidence' in his pessimistic scenarios.
2019–2023 2008–2018 Wake Island has fewer than 300 occupants, mainly related to activities of the United States Air Force, none of whom is considered a permanent resident.
Function The addition of extender to semen protects the sperm cells against possible damage by toxic seminal plasma, as well as providing nutrients and cooling buffers if the semen is to be cooled.
However, another study found that cohabiting couples in France have equal fertility as married ones.
The fertility rate equals the expected number of children born per woman in her child-bearing years.
History The European Commission gave marketing authorization for ganirelix throughout the European Union to N.V.
A law project sent reluctantly by the government of President Laura Chinchilla was rejected by parliament.
Prevention Physicians can reduce the risk of OHSS by monitoring of FSH therapy to use this medication judiciously, and by withholding hCG medication.
Sperm donation may provide the source for the sperm used in IVF procedures where the male partner produces no sperm or has an inheritable disease, or where the woman being treated has no male partner.
Gynecologic ultrasonography or gynecologic sonography refers to the application of medical ultrasonography to the female pelvic organs (specifically the uterus, the ovaries, and the fallopian tubes) as well as the bladder, the adnexa, and the recto-uterine pouch.
Death John Billings died, aged 89, on 1 April 2007, at a Richmond aged care centre, survived by his wife, children and large extended family.
An electronic, flexible scope with a camera can also be inserted through the cervix to display live images.
Within 1–3 months of removing the intrauterine device, however, patients should experience a return to their normal menstrual cycle.
Photoperiod likely affects the seasonal breeder through changes in melatonin secretion by the pineal gland that ultimately alter GnRH release by the hypothalamus.
Origin The original birth control necklace was invented in 1989 by the Austrian gynecologist Maria Hengstberger who developed this necklace together with local Ethiopian women and adapted it to their wishes and needs.
Fathers This section lists men who have produced at least 25 or more children, usually with different women.
Porcine uterine serpin binds non-covalently to uteroferrin in a way that stabilizes the iron-binding capacity of uteroferrin.
Reproduction is published on behalf of the Society for Reproduction and Fertility in the United Kingdom.
Background In 1939, Baby Train was mentioned in Christopher Morley's novel Kitty Foyle: "The first thing you hear mornings in Manitou is the early Q train to Chicago.
Thus, they are distinct from seasonal breeders that rely on changes in day length to induce entry into estrus and to cue mating, and continuous breeders like humans that can mate year-round.
Description Marriage loans were created by the "Law for the Reduction of Unemployment" of June 1, 1933.
How married persons may be guilty of conjugal lewdness, and that a man may, in effect, make a whore of his own wife.
Most commonly, spermatozoa live only one to three days in the presence of fertile mucus, with survival up to five days being rare.
The presence of the blastocyst means that two types of cells are forming, an inner-cell mass growing on the interior of the blastocele and cells growing on the exterior of it.
Later 20th century to present In the first half of the 20th century, most users of the rhythm method were Catholic; they were following their church's teaching that all other methods of birth control were sinful.
Many social norms or practices affect fertility regulation including celibacy, the age at marriage and the timing and frequency of sexual intercourse, including periods of prescribed sexual abstinence.
The event is designed to reduce what some Russian elements view as increasing sexlessness among young people in Russia.
Some definitions consider sperm activation to consist of these two processes of hyperactivation and the acrosome reaction.
Klinefelter syndrome is a chromosomal defect that occurs during gamete formation due to a non-disjunction error during cell division.
Others may do it by relaxing the area around the penis, which may result in harder erections especially when extremely aroused.
Journals Human Reproduction is published on behalf of the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
The term fecundity in population biology is often used to denote the rate of offspring production over one time step (typically annual).
These men were treated using FSH treatments and had testicular biopsy's performed on them before and after the treatment had been administered in order to track progress.
The party's registration was subsequently completed, and the Irish Freedom Party (IFP) was included on the Register of Political Parties as of 13 June 2019.
The decline is particularly prevalent in Western regions such as New Zealand, Australia, Europe, and North America.
have shown that despite the older maternal age at birth of the first child, the time span between the birth of the first and the second child, the interpregnancy interval, decreased over the last decades.
Fertility in art refers to any artistic work representing or portraying fertility, which usually refers to successful breeding among humans, although it may also mean successful agriculture and animal husbandry.
Embryokines (Greek: embryuon "embryo" + kinōs "movement") are regulatory molecules produced by the oviduct and endometrium in the reproductive tract that modulate embryonic growth and development.
Print version: The full print document of the US Medical Eligibility Criteria is intended to describe in further detail the medical evidence for each recommendation.
When people searched for him, they eventually found Mukasa sitting under a tree in an island far away from his home.
Aphroditus was portrayed as having a female shape and clothing like Aphrodite's but also a phallus, and hence, a male name.
To avoid the development of endometrial cancer, young women taking estradiol replacement need to also take a progestin in a regular cyclic fashion.
Criticism In 2018, Södersjukhuset, a hospital in Stockholm, Sweden, filed a complaint with the Medical Products Agency of Sweden after 37 women who had been using Natural Cycles as their primary method of contraception sought an abortion at the hospital after becoming pregnant unintentionally.
A solution to the problem is to adopt impersonal views, theories that don't rely on the notion of personal identity, such as utilitarianism.
The production of fertile cervical mucus is caused by estrogen, the same hormone that prepares a woman's body for ovulation.
The decline in ovarian reserve appears to occur at a constantly increasing rate with age, and leads to nearly complete exhaustion of the reserve by about age 51.
The figures given are from the 2021 census; the lowest birth rate recorded in Russia was in 1999, it increased thereafter and the birth rate is 9.6 in 2021 compared to 8.7 in 1999.
Sperm washing involves removing any mucus and non-motile sperm in the semen to improve the chances of fertilization and to extract certain disease-carrying material in the semen.
Numerous fund-raising activities have been conducted by various parties, such as the 1990 album Nobody's Child: Romanian Angel Appeal, which was compiled by George and Olivia Harrison for AIDS-infected orphans.
Couples show similarities in terms of their contributions to public betterment and charities, and this can be attributed to mate choice based on generosity rather than phenotypic convergence.
The most common way to obtain a semen sample is through masturbation or withdrawal method and the best place to obtain it is in the clinic where the analysis will take place in order to avoid temperature changes during the transport that can be lethal for some spermatozoa.
While reproduction is generally independent of photoperiod, animals can still experience reduced fertility with changes in day-length.
Despite the advertisements' obvious irony, it did in fact result in an increase of the Danish birth rate.
The tetrasporic pattern is characterized by cell plates failing to form after either meiosis 1 or 2, and results in one four-nucleate megaspore.
By the 16th century, Inari had become the patron of blacksmiths and the protector of warriors, and worship of Inari spread across Japan in the Edo period.
Barton's second husband, sex researcher Bertold Wiesner, is believed to have been in charge of recruiting sperm donors for Barton's clinic.
The kitsune statues are at times taken for a form of Inari, and they typically come in pairs, representing a male and a female.
See also Cornucopia References External links Kalathos from Kalymnos 1130BC-1090BC, British Museum Kalathos : The Collaborative Numismatics Project Mycenaen Ceramic Kalathos, Phoenix Ancient Art
A furious political debate raged in the 1980s over the ethics of baby food companies marketing infant formula in developing countries.
Artificial insemination using a sperm donor for LGBTQ+ individuals and couples is one of the more cost-effective avenues to parenting.
Religion Although the 1948 Constitution and its two successors provided a simulacrum of religious freedom, the regime in fact had a policy of promoting Marxist–Leninist atheism, coupled with religious persecution.
Hystero contrast sonography (HyCoSy) Hystero contrast sonography (HyCoSy) is a transvaginal ultrasound imaging technique used to evaluate the uterus, fallopian tubes and ovaries.
If this condition is diagnosed, some sources suggest taking guaifenesin in the few days before ovulation to thin out the mucus.
Other research suggests that timing of conception has no effect on miscarriage rates, low birth weight, or preterm delivery.
Fertility A woman typically ovulates at only one time during her cycle (except those with hyperovulation), and an unfertilized ovum can survive for only 12–24 hours.
Studies about the value of progesterone supplementation remain deficient, however, such supplementation is commonly carried out on an empirical basis.
This idea claims that the genetic selection of traits that increase an organism's fecundity is, in turn, advantageous to an organism's fitness.
Mühlenberg focuses on de-Nazification in the American sector, although the British zone is also discussed.
Ireland Since 1 January 1995, stillbirths occurring in Ireland must be registered; stillbirths that occurred before that date can also be registered but evidence is required.
History Prelude Fertility was founded by Martin Varsavsky following his and his wife’s experience with fertility treatment and IVF.
(see References) There were many commentaries on these laws or on this law by the Roman jurists, of which considerable fragments are preserved in the Digest: Gaius wrote 15 books, Ulpian 20, and Paulus 10 books at least on this law.
Mucus can be sampled with by either wiping with toilet paper or inserting a clean finger into the vagina.
GnRH agonists that are used mostly or exclusively in veterinary medicine include deslorelin and fertirelin.
Abstinence-only sex education programs have been found to be ineffective in decreasing rates of HIV infection in the developed world and unplanned pregnancy.
In developed countries and at facilities where expert neonatal care is available, it is considered from 22 completed weeks (usually about 154 days) of gestation (the time when birth weight is normally 500 g) to 7 completed days after birth.
Other researchers have stated that there is a lack of concordance between women's subjective sexual arousal and their genital arousal.
Fructose level Fructose level in the semen may be analysed to determine the amount of energy available to the semen for moving.
In March 2019, Prelude announced a partnership with Inception Fertility and also announced TJ Farnsworth as the company’s new CEO.
The size of the penis statues, which number well over 100, is said to range "[from] the size of a cream doughnut to the size of a canoe"; some are huge, some are humorous and painted pink to closely resemble a human phallus.
Population control In the 20th century, several authoritarian governments sought either to increase or to decrease the birth rates, sometimes through forceful intervention.
Increased awareness during the 1990s expanded the scope of research to address social and biological factors.
Use The hamster zona-free ovum test was frequently performed by sperm banks when screening potential sperm donors.
Medabon combines mifepristone and misoprostol, two abortifacients which health organizations had already deemed safe and effective.
Oshun is the deity of the river and fresh water, luxury and pleasure, sexuality and fertility, and beauty and love.
Martins da Silva's research investigates the functionality of sperm cells, particularly the sperm-specific calcium channel CatSper, and how modern lifestyle choices may affect sperm function.
The most notable example was the controversy surrounding the historian Fernando Paz, the party's leading candidate in Albacete for the April 2019 general election, who resigned after suffering what he described as "a mediatic hunt", due to Holocaust denial and homophobia.
Contraindications There are very few relative or absolute contraindications to the etonogestrel implant.
In Thailand the village ghosts or fairies related to trees such as Nang Takian and Nang Tani are known generically as Nang Mai (นางไม้).
The cervix is cleaned with an antiseptic such as iodine and injected with a local anesthetic to minimize discomfort and pain.
Their views are not necessarily limited only to humans but may encompass all sentient creatures, arguing that coming into existence is a serious harm for sentient beings in general.
(Fertility protection in leukemia patients), information of the European Leukemia Information Center (ELIC) of European LeukemiaNet (in German language)
The variability in definitions is in part explained by the effects of increasing age occurring as a continuum rather than as a threshold effect.
The San Francisco Chronicle described the term as "a joking or derogatory slur used by gays to describe heterosexuals".
Oocyte cryopreservation is now considered a well-established technique for fertility preservation in women.
Shettles in the 1960s and was publicized in the book How to Choose the Sex of Your Baby, coauthored by Shettles and David Rorvik.
Factors associated with unintended pregnancy Unintended pregnancy typically occurs after sexual activity without the use of contraception, or not using it correctly.
The people there did not seem different from people in other small towns, so he couldn't understand why they got three times as many children.
Pre-transfer immunization with antigens from the species providing the embryo has promoted more rapid and uniform failure of the interspecies pregnancy in mice, but increased survival in horse-donkey experiments.
Background In 1996, the World Health Organization created a set of guidelines called "medical eligibility criteria for contraceptive use" for family planning and reproductive health programs and providers in order to guide provision of contraceptive care worldwide.
Certain environmental toxins such as phthalates, bisphenols, and dioxins are also associated with POI.
Scorpions, however, are either ovoviviparous or viviparous, depending on species, and bear live young.
Principles of ovarian culture can be applied to women who are resistant to FSH or oestrogen sensitive tumours.
The pregnancy and implantation rates in ZIFT cycles are 52.3 and 23.2% which were higher than what was observed in IVF cycles which were 17.5 and 9.7%.
It has been suggested that chromosomal duplication plays an important part in the evolution of trioecy.
From the trial's transcript: The prosecution has failed to prove with the requisite certainty the participation of Lebensborn, and the defendants connected there with in the kidnapping programme conducted by the Nazis.
After having difficulty becoming pregnant, her mother sought help from Mortimer and eventually became pregnant in 1980.
Safe sex and birth control There are a variety of safe sex methods that are practiced by heterosexual and same-sex couples, including non-penetrative sex acts, and heterosexual couples may use oral or anal sex (or both) as a means of birth control.
Unsurprisingly, high first-birth ages and high rates of birth postponement accompany low and lowest-low fertility.
Legal specifics The jus trium liberorum was a reward gained by compliance with the leges Iulia and Papia Poppea.
The outcome from using cryopreserved embryos has uniformly been positive with no increase in birth defects or development abnormalities, also between fresh versus frozen eggs used for intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
He took his BA degree from Mississippi College in 1933 with special distinction; Doctor of Science from Mississippi College in 1966; Master of Science of the Fellow from the University of New Mexico in 1933–1934; he received his Ph.D.
The term covers a wide variety of situations and degrees of economic, social, and physical coercion.
The Church of Euthanasia is also notorious for its conflicts with anti-abortion Christian activists.
Fertiloscopy, a relatively new surgical technique used for early diagnosis (and immediate treatment).
Prolonged time in the plateau phase without progression to the orgasmic phase may result in sexual frustration.
If the OHSS develops within an IVF protocol, it can be prudent to postpone transfer of the pre-embryos since establishment of pregnancy can lengthen the recovery time or contribute to a more severe course.
Increased levels of salinity in drying vegetation cause females to experience a reproductive hiatus.
DNA testing Due to the advent of genetic genealogy and DNA databases, even sperm donors who have not initiated contact through a registry are now increasingly being traced by their offspring.
Stewart Wallace, the author of "The Canadian Immigration Policy," endorsed the idea of race suicide.
An R0 of one means that each generation of mothers is having exactly enough daughters to replace themselves in the population.
Martins da Silva's work on male infertility was motivated by the unexplained decrease in male fertility in the late 20th and early 21st centuries.
Whilst based in Berlin, Turville-Petre was an active member of the Scientific-Humanitarian Committee, which campaigned for gay legal reform and tolerance, and attended the Second Congress in Copenhagen in 1928.
Vegetation myths have structural resemblances to certain creation myths in which parts of a primordial being's body generate aspects of the cosmos, such as the Norse myth of Ymir.
Indeed, it is considered impossible to cease reproduction based on social factors, and fecundity tends to rise after a brief decline.
"The American Fertility Association Brings Fertility Education to San Francisco or Parent Hopefuls - Straight and Gay".
Seeds generated by apomixis are a means of asexual reproduction, involving the formation and dispersal of seeds that do not originate from the fertilization of the embryos.
Reports from July 1899 suggest that he had eloped with a young woman from Reading, Pennsylvania, and had joined in the Klondike Gold Rush.
In human semen extenders, antibiotics are required for regulatory reasons, so their use is almost universal in clinics, even though antibiotics can be detrimental to sperm.
Ala's messenger and living agent on earth is the python (Igbo: éké), which is especially revered in many Igbo communities.
Illustrations on south-Italian vases make use of the calathus as a symbol of a future marital relationship.
Snails, for example, cannot reproduce successfully in an environment low in calcium, no matter how much food there is because they need this mineral for shell growth.
As of 2019, the Prelude Fertility Network of clinics included 23 fertility practices and 36 locations in the U.S.
Smoking: There is limited research that directly looks at the association of cigarette smoking and RPL.
The Slut Walk movement has embraced the slut-shame label and has engaged in an act of resignification.
Some research suggests increased risks for health problems for children of older fathers, but no clear association has been proven.
Ionescu still held a deputy's seat at Roman in 1884, returning to Chamber for a final term in the October 1888 election, but at Iași.
The newest and certainly most understandable model of this necklace is called "Baby Necklace", since the beads of the days of highest fertility have the shape of a baby.
Another large group of flowering plants is the Asteraceae or sunflower family with close to 22,000 species, which also have highly modified inflorescences composed of many individual flowers called florets.
First, the female must take a fertility medication clomiphene to stimulate egg production in the ovaries.
Products include a range of daily, two-week and monthly disposable contact lenses, and other spherical, toric and multifocal lenses for astigmatism, nearsightedness and farsightedness, and presbyopia.
Injectables have been formulated for daily, monthly, and quarterly use, and implants are available that can last from one month to a year.
Therefore, ovarian culture systems have become increasingly widely used in reproductive biology and toxicology.
People born from anonymous or ID release sperm or egg donation are able to find half-siblings conceived using the same gamete donor online through the Donor Sibling Registry or by using commercially available DNA test kits.
Three studies conducted between 2015 and 2018 indicate a large fraction (~80%) of women without a high school diploma or local equivalent in the US are unmarried at the time of their first birth.
Cadmium, being chemically similar to zinc, may replace zinc in the DNA polymerase, which plays a critical role in sperm production.
High dosages of testosterone (with levels of > 50 ng/dL) have a risk of masculinization (e.g., acne, hair growth, voice changes) with long-term therapy in women.
The display of the strength of character allows the abstainer to set an example for those not able to contain their "base urges".
Seminal fluid contains several proteins that interact with epithelial cells of the cervix and uterus, inducing active gestational immune tolerance.
However, some researchers argue that this assortative mating is caused purely by population stratification (the fact that people are more likely to marry within ethnic subgroups such as Swedish-Americans).
The 1990s was a difficult transition period, and it is during this period that the number of street children was very high.
Thus, as explained by the German historian Gisela Bock, who was involved with the first historians to highlight this issue, by asking women during the Nazi era.
Although the clinic helped few patients in 1921 'the year was one of the most important in the whole history of birth control simply because of their very existence'.
Clinics apply a number of diagnosis tests and sometimes very advanced medical treatments to achieve conceptions and pregnancies.
Decreased HIV transmission Sperm washing can be used to decrease the risk of HIV transmission in HIV-positive males, because the infection is carried by the seminal fluid rather than the sperm.
Governmental organizations ranking lists The CIA ranking list is sourced from the CIA World Factbook for the most recent year unless otherwise specified.
As well as the higher efficiency of NHEJ making inadvertent knockouts likely, CRISPR can introduce DSBs to unintended parts of the genome, called off-target effects.
Historically, there has been a swing from the sexually liberal end of the Industrial Revolution to the chaste values of the early Victorian period.
During the course of his studies, he noticed that cervical mucus changed in a predictable pattern through the course of a woman's cycle.
No strong correlation has been found between hamster egg penetration rates and the various semen parameters and the role of the hamster egg penetration test in the investigation of the causes of infertility should be evaluated further.
Other research published in 2023 has linked the change in diet associated with industrialisation, termed the nutrition transition, to declining sperm counts, estimating that the transition from an unprocessed to modern processed diet may account for up to 30 percent of the decline in sperm counts.
The term was part of a 2006 controversy in the heavily gay resort town of Provincetown, Massachusetts, when petitioners against same-sex marriage whose identities were published, complained of having been called "breeders".
FISH is often used when screening for chromosomal abnormalities such as aneuploidy, making it a useful tool when screening for disorders such as Down syndrome.
He had three wives: Nalwaŋga, with whom he had two children (Lwaŋga and Musozi); Nadjemba, who also had two children (Buguŋgu and Kisituka) with him; and Naku, who bore three of his children (Kaumpuli, Nairuma, and Nanziri).
The median age is a more precise representation of when the majority of people marry; for most reporting sources, however, only the average age at marriage is reported.
Female residents of Toronto, Ontario, Canada, competed to produce the most babies in order to qualify for an unusual bequest in a will.
With the use of chimeras, it was found that hemorrhaging was less likely to occur, and "postnatal tissue-specific differential growth" occurred.
Some species flower gregariously in certain years but do not die following the mass flowering, and are therefore not plietesial.
The resultant 'sex-sorted' spermatozoa are then able to be used in conjunction with other assisted reproductive technologies such as artificial insemination or in-vitro fertilization (IVF) to produce offspring of the desired sex - in farming animals but also in human medical practice.
Ugajin is represented both as a male and a female, and is often depicted with the body of a snake and the head of a bearded man, for the masculine variant, or the head of a woman, for the female variant.
Histotrophic ("tissue eating") viviparity: The zygotes develop in the female's oviducts, but she provides no direct nutrition.
Research suggests androgens, such as testosterone, are not sufficient by themselves to prompt sexual motivation in females.
Red blood cells Megaloblastic red blood cells are produced early in development, which become normoblastic near term.
Honors and press coverage Bedsider has received awards for its design and layout, and acceptance by media outlets such as the Associated Press and CNN.
History On November 10, 2011, the Ad Council launched a major marketing campaign in support of the Bedsider program.
"Reduced gap junctional communication is associated with the lethal condition characteristic of DDK mouse eggs fertilized by foreign sperm" (PDF).
For example, annexin V staining followed by MACS can significantly improve pregnancy rates in couples with previous assisted reproduction failure.
The site, which measures roughly 60 by 70 feet (18 m × 21 m), is now "crammed with carved" wooden penis statues, which are said to possess special cosmic powers and endow good fortune and fertility on anybody coming into contact with them.
Despite the discrepancy between preferred child bearing and natural fertility, women in Africa have reported they don't use any form of contraception to prevent pregnancies.
Fertility deities A fertility deity is a god or goddess in mythology associated with fertility, pregnancy, and birth.
The obliging server takes the traveler to see the train tracks at the east end of town where the expresses to Miami come barreling through.
Ovarian tissue cryopreservation can be performed on prepubertal girls at risk for premature ovarian failure, and this procedure is as feasible and safe as comparable operative procedures in children.
About three-fourths of these were using female sterilization, which is by far the most prevalent birth-control method in India.
Bangkok Babylon: The Real-Life Exploits of Bangkok's Legendary Expatriates are Often Stranger Than Fiction.
Once the extraction is done, the sample is analyzed in the microscope to select and carry out the oocyte decumulation, a process where the granulosa cells surrounding the oocyte are removed.
The terms safer sex and protected sex are sometimes preferred, to indicate that even highly effective prevention practices do not completely eliminate all possible risks.
The third method of DNA transfer is conjugation, in which a plasmid mediates transfer through direct cell contact between cells.
Her symbols were lions, doves & the 8-pointed star, wife of Dumuzid Turco-Mongol Umay, goddess of fertility and reproduction, believed to have saved two children (one boy and one girl) from a massacre.
According to the Academy of Obstetrics and Gynecology, the risk for Down syndrome increases proportionally to maternal age.
In 1989, the oldest decreței would have been 22 years old, in the general age range of most revolutionaries.
According to SCImago Journal Rank, its review journal Human Reproduction Update was the highest ranking journal in obstetrics and gynecology in 2008.
See also Surrogacy legal issues Surrogacy laws in the United States References Further reading Chesler, Phyllis.
If the R0 is less than one, the reproductive performance of the population is below replacement level.
Some species, such as Tridax trilobata, Ehretia laevis, and Alectra thomsoni, can undergo different patterns of megasporogenesis and therefore different patterns of megagametogenesis.
Background The race was the product of a scheme by Charles Vance Millar (1853–1926), a Toronto lawyer, financier, and practical joker, who bequeathed the residue of his significant estate to the woman in Toronto who could produce the most children in the decade following his death.
Specialists in reproductive medicine usually undergo medical residency training in obstetrics and gynecology followed by medical fellowship training in reproductive endocrinology and infertility.
Jerome Kalman Sherman (August 14, 1925 – December 1, 2023) was an American biologist and credited as a founder of modern sperm banking and cryopreservation.
Another latex or silicone cone shaped attachment is placed on one end of the AV an held by a rubber band.
Males who have fathered large numbers of children through medical sperm donation are difficult to record.
Ansley Coale's Three Preconditions for Decline in Fertility asserts that increases in a society's income may increase its fertility, but only if three preconditions are met, summarized as "ready, willing and able".
After confronting Ereshkigal, her sister and ruler of the underworld, Inanna is killed, but an emissary from the gods administers potions to restore her to life.
"The Effects of Drugs And Alcohol on Fetal Development | LIVESTRONG.COM." LIVESTRONG.COM – Lose Weight & Get Fit with Diet, Nutrition & Fitness Tools | LIVESTRONG.COM.
Most of the symbols people associate with aboriginal art from this region like concentric circles, U shapes and wavy lines all come from earlier designs on tjurunga.
On the other hand, therapies with low risk of gonadotoxicity include plant derivatives such as vincristine and vinblastine, antibiotics such as bleomycin and dactinomycin and antimetabolites such as methotrexate, mercaptopurine and 5-fluoruracil.
Soups and broths made of meats and vegetables when available, were common meals for the Soviet peasant family.
Agonists with two substitutions include: leuprorelin, buserelin, histrelin, goserelin, and deslorelin.
The Implanon also has these negative side effects causing a considerable amount of vaginal bleeding irregularities, and amenorrhea in about 30–40% of its users during the following 90 days of starting use.
"Fertile window and biophysical biomarkers of cervical secretion in subfertile cycles: a look at biotechnology applied to NaProTechnology".
Female seasonal breeders will have one or more estrus cycles only when she is "in season" or fertile and receptive to mating.
Ten Ten-Vilu, along with Kai Kai-Vilu, were the children of powerful spirits Antu and Pien-Pillan (Antu, father of Ten-Ten, and Pien-Pillan, father of Kai Kai), but they were ambitious and desired the power of their parents.
Gynecologic ultrasonography is sometimes overused when it is used to screen for ovarian cancer in women who are not at risk for this cancer.
Regular physical examinations (including pap smears) help detect early signs of infections or abnormalities.
Oocytes (but not spermatocytes) then undergo a prolonged arrest at the end of diplotene, until meiosis resumes at the beginning of the menstrual cycle.
However, because flow cytometry-based sperm sorting often uses fluorescent dyes that often stain DNA, the safety of this technique in human reproductive medicine is a matter of scientific discussion.
The 2007 grand prize went to Irina and Andrei Kartuzov, who received a UAZ-Patriot, a sport utility vehicle made in Ulyanovsk.
See also Honji suijaku List of Japanese deities Ukemochi Footnotes Notes References Bibliography Anzu, Motohiko (January 1972).
Cast Reception Box office According to Fox records the film required $6,425,000 in rentals to break even and by 11 December 1970 had made $7,175,000.
It is based on the premise that when regular life is disrupted adults will resort to sex as occupation without regard for family planning or protection.
Superfecundation most commonly happens within hours or days of the first instance of fertilization with ova released during the same cycle.
These regulations vary significantly across jurisdictions, and some countries do not have any regulations.
Countries and geographic regions that are currently experiencing the highest rates of declining populations include Western Europe, Japan, the Russian Federation, and South Korea.
Non-governmental organizations ranking lists The Population Reference Bureau (PRB) ranking list is based on the data of the 2024 World Population Data Sheet published online.
There is also a report that GnRH agonists used in the treatment of advanced prostate cancer may increase the risk of heart problems by 30%.
Judgmentalism is not a pejorative word compared to women, and slut-shaming may have a positive connotation with men depending on context and relationship.
Treatment Fertility may sometimes be restored by the removal of adhesions, depending on the severity of the initial trauma and other individual patient factors.
MUC16 has also been shown to disappear from the cell surfaces with the development of the pinopodes.
Five modes of reproduction can be differentiated in fish based on relations between the zygote(s) and parents: Ovuliparity: Fertilization of eggs is external; zygotes develop externally.
With perfect usage, 3.5 out of 100 people will get pregnant in the first year of use and, under typical use, 13.7 out of 100 people will get pregnant in the first year.
Africa Americas Asia Europe Oceania Note: the reported age for these countries is the median, not the mean (average).
Protists generally reproduce asexually under favorable environmental conditions, but tend to reproduce sexually under stressful conditions, such as starvation or heat shock.
Specific policies and initiatives may be needed to address the declining fertility rates in Spain and mitigate the impact of birth dearth.
Treatment Treatment depends on the cause of infertility, but may include counselling, fertility treatments, which include in vitro fertilization.
Recipients of embryos donated for research typically use them for clinical training, quality improvement research, or human embryonic stem cell research.
Still, after fertilization via intracytoplasmic sperm injection, the egg cell does not lose cell-surface expression of Juno, which suggests that Juno contributes to the prevention of polyspermy.
A variety of authors (in particular, Lesthaeghe) have argued that fertility postponement constitutes the "hallmark" of what has become known as the "second demographic transition".
Auditors from KPMG Peat Marwick investigated the clinic and found that almost $1 million in income at the clinic had not been reported.
But impersonal views lead to what Parfit calls the "repugnant conclusion", the idea that for any possible population with very high quality of life, there could be a much larger imaginable population whose existence would be better, even though its members have lives that are barely worth living.
Mills had previously co-starred with Kerr and Evans in The Chalk Garden (1964), which was also directed by Neame.
Thus, we associate studies on the subject during the 1980s mainly with perceptions that women were victims of "machismo" and a "misogynist" fascism.
This group were one-third less likely to develop aggressive prostate cancer when compared with men who ejaculated less than three times a week at this age.
Vitamin E helps counter oxidative stress, which is associated with sperm DNA damage and reduced sperm motility.
It is he who devised the modern form of the "Lexis diagram", a key tool for demonstrating the relationship between periods and cohorts.
See also Erogenous zone Foreplay Manual sex Oral sex Orgastic potency Sexual attraction References External links Human sexual response on Discovery health Human Sexual Response Cycles by Dr.
Examination of completed genomes indicates that uterine serpin genes do not exist in primates, mouse, rat, rabbit, marsupials, platypus, chicken or zebrafish.
While tjuringa were useful to the individual, the clan's collective fate was also considered to be tied up with the items.
The two most common invasive methods of extracting fetal DNA are chorionic villus sampling (CVS) and amniocentesis (AMC).
They regrouped eventually around the Romanian Orthodox Cathedral and started a protest march around the city, but again they were confronted by the security forces.
Cellular differentiation Following this, a narrow line of cells appears on the surface on the embryo.
Mice lacking Juno on the surface of their egg cells are infertile because their egg cells do not fuse with normal sperm, demonstrating Juno's essential role in the fertility of female mice.
These include asphyxia caused by airway obstruction, apnea, hypotension, and pulmonary aspiration of stomach contents.
Impairment of the repair of DNA double-strand breaks due to a BRCA1 defect leads to premature ovarian aging in both mice and humans.
He produced the world's first intra-cytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI with NASBA virus assay) virus free baby to an HIV discordant couple.
It does not rely on the presence of ovulation, but identifies patterns of potential and obvious infertility within the cycle.
During the 1930s, the development of the USSR was just about the only theme of art, literature and film.
Endometriosis seems to cause a challenge for TVOR that may have reflection on individual surgeon's performance rates for the procedure, independently from the diameter of a pre-existing ovarian endometrioma (OMA) or ovarian adhesions.
Sexually transmitted chlamydia and genital mycoplasma infections are preventable causes of infertility and negative pregnancy outcomes.
Aristophanes calls her Aphroditus, and Laevius says: Worshiping, then, the nurturing god Venus, whether she is male or female, just as the Moon is a nurturing goddess.
The party also stood for democratization, including radical land reform and a reshaping of the census suffrage, while its regional ethos resulted in support for federalism, then communalism.
Homopaternal superfecundation is a form of twinning where fertilization of two separate ova occurs as a result of two or more distinct instances of intercourse or insemination with the same male partner or donor, leading to fraternal twins.
As punishment, his father transformed him into a serpent, which would become the divinity of all that is the earth.
On the other hand, mating between individuals of genotypes which are too similar allows for the accumulation of harmful recessive alleles, which can decrease fitness.
As reported on 22 October 2021, the Government of Spain ordered all fines collected in relation to the first State of Alarm to be returned to citizens.
Concept Foundation products have been manufactured in 8 countries and are made available in more than 30 developing countries.
Several branches of heavy industry were founded, including the machine-tool, tractor, and automotive industries; large-tonnage shipbuilding; the manufacture of electric diesel locomotives; and the electronics and petrochemical industries.
A study conducted by the International Health Foundation polled 6630 women from European countries including Germany, Poland, Denmark, and Italy which had shown that there was a relatively variable use of contraception from country to country.
Because of her close association with kitsune, Inari is often believed to be a fox; though this belief is widespread, both Shinto and Buddhist priests discourage it.
To facilitate differentiation between tissue origins the ovary and the follicle should be from different genetic sources.
There is no data to indicate that suction D&C is less likely than sharp curettage to result in Asherman's.
In these plants, the embryo begins its existence attached to the inside of the archegonium on a parental gametophyte from which the egg cell was generated.
The faction ended its activities in November 2019 without dissolving officially; Der Flügel ended its activities officially in April 2020.
This, in turn, results in increased function and maintenance of the gonads and increased gonadal steroidogenesis of sex hormones such as androgens, estrogens, and progestogens.
Estradiol and antiandrogen therapy increase sexual desire and arousal in transgender women after a temporary decrease.
In November 2018, during a party event in Murcia, party leader Santiago Abascal defined his party as "antifascist, anti-Nazi and anti-communist".
According to the discipline of Ise Shintō (Watarai Shintō) originated by a priest at Geku named Watarai Ieyuki (度会家行), Toyouke-Ōmikami is recognized as the first divine being which appeared in this world.
This extended who has the right to be a parent to a man who would supposedly fill in the social role as a "father." There were now numerous ways to establish parental rights for both the mother and the father depending on if the child was born using a sperm donor or a surrogate.
The Method pioneered by the Billings was approved by both the Catholic Church and used by the World Health Organization.
Fertility J-curve Some scholars have recently questioned the assumption that economic development and fertility are correlated in a simple negative manner.
Mythology Divine brotherhood and arrival at Kege Moirang According to Meitei mythology, Oknarel and Thangnarel are metaphorically described as two faces of the same coin.
The intent of the jus trium liberorum has been interpreted by a few scholars as eugenic legislation, but the predominant view is that it was intended to increase birth rates among the senatorial order.
There are also separate, closed mailing lists for donors and recipients to discuss issues related to donation.
Without this successful binding, pregnancy failure is more likely to occur after interspecies embryo transmission.
In 2024, the fertility rate in England and Wales fell to 1.41, the lowest on record since records began in 1938.
This demographic pattern is considered to influence the stock of human capital and thus to contribute to Western Europe's development advantage.
Evidence of ovulation, the phase during which conception is most probable, is advertised to males among many non-human primates via swelling and redness of the genitalia.
Juno was initially found in murine oocytes, but its interaction with Izumo was subsequently found in other mammalian species, including humans.
Benatar's asymmetry argument for antinatalism is an argument based on the difference between harms and benefits viewed in two scenarios — when the person in question exists and when the person in question never exists.
In the depletion strategy, current generations have a slightly higher quality of life, but unchecked use of natural resources eventually leads to depletion, significantly degrading the welfare of future generations.
Data are drawn from the ONS dataset Births in England and Wales: birth registrations (2024 edition) and correspond to the Total fertility rate (TFR) by local authority of usual residence of the mother.
Because of various exemptions, fertility rate is about 1.7 children per woman, down from 5.9 in the 1960s.
Starting in the mid-1990s the technique was used to help HIV discordant couples conceive without passing the virus from the father to the mother or child.
Bedsider also offers a weekly column on sex, love, and life as well as a series of animated shorts that debunk myths about birth control.
Coitus interruptus Coitus interruptus is an example of a contraceptive behavior utilized in medieval times.
Antibiotics are almost universal in semen extenders, especially those being used for shipping or freezing semen.
Because the age distribution of people at first marriage is skewed with a longer tail towards older ages, the majority of people marry before the average age of first marriage.
History Formation On 3 February 2018 an 'Irexit' conference was held in the Royal Dublin Society in Dublin, advocating an Irish withdrawal from the European Union.
Human demography Human demography considers only human fecundity, at culturally varying rates, whereas population biology studies all organisms.
Literary sources report that, depending on the context, the calathus could contain wool, but also food (bread, cheese, milk, fruits and vegetables), small animals or flowers.
Upon the evidence submitted, the defendant Sollmann is found not guilty on counts one and two of the indictment.
In March 2018, the group called on AfD to formally reject any collaboration between the party and PEGIDA founder Lutz Bachmann.
The campaign, launched by the Danish travel agency Spies Rejser, is a tongue-in-cheek attempt to lure Danes to book holidays as a way to stop a purported population decline in Denmark.
This rate is similar to the gross reproduction rate but takes into account that some females will die before completing their childbearing years.
When private donors ship chilled semen outside of the formal regulatory environment, and fertilization is accomplished by allowing sperm to swim through the reproductive tract without the help of procedures such as IVF, then it is possible to achieve better results without antibiotics.
Chemotherapy When using chemotherapy treatments, the possibility of azoospermia is dependent on the dose, duration, number and type of drugs used; the male's fertility status before the treatment occurred is also taken into consideration.
The postwar period brought increased scholarly interest in the Mishaguji, and numerous theories emerged regarding their origins and relationship to Suwa Shrine.
38 tit.1 De Operis Libertorum); and libertae, who had four children, were released from the tutela of their patrons (Ulp.
Panaiveriyamman, named after panai, the Tamil name for the Palmyra palm, is an ancient fertility deity linked to this palm that is so important in Tamil culture.
Currently, the fertility is below replacement among those native born, and above replacement among immigrant families, most of whom come to the US from countries with higher fertility.
Although these tree deities are usually benevolent, there are also yakshinis with malevolent characteristics in Indian folklore.
More broadly, the Act engaged in a racialized operation of tightening the borders by setting national quotas for immigrants.
The gross abuse of matrimonial chastity, from the wrong notions which have possessed the world, degenerating even to whoredom.
On the other hand, venous thromboembolism rarely occurs unless a pregnancy is achieved, and is therefore usually not particularly relevant in the stage of oocyte retrieval.
The National Gamete Donation Service (NGDS), now known as the SEED Trust, raises awareness of the national shortage of sperm, egg and embryo donors in the UK.
When the ovarian follicles have reached a certain degree of development, induction of final oocyte maturation is performed, generally by an intramuscular or subcutaneous injection of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG).
The date commemorates the Battle of La Coronilla, which took place on 27 May 1812, during the Bolivian War of Independence, in what is now the city of Cochabamba.
Etymology Aphroditus (Ἀφρόδιτος) seems to be the male version of Aphrodite (Ἀφροδίτη), with the female thematic ending -ē (-η) exchanged for the male thematic ending -os (-ος), as paralleled e.g.
Procedures General With ART, the process of sexual intercourse is bypassed and fertilization of the oocytes occurs in the laboratory environment (i.e., in vitro fertilization).
There has been debate over its acceptability, inside and outside of LGBT circles, and whether it is a slur.
In females, these gonads are then connected by oviducts to an external opening, typically the cloaca or vagina.
Reception Nick Gillespie, editor of Reason magazine, reviewed the book on Bookforum, saying that he was convinced by Last's argument that birthrates were declining and there was not much that could be done about it, but found Last's account of the negative consequences exaggerated.
Fertility clinics are medical clinics that assist couples, and sometimes individuals, who want to become parents but for medical reasons have been unable to achieve this goal via the natural course.
The committee requested oral and written testimony from 100 organizations and individuals in Great Britain and worldwide.
Bioethical issues Gamete intrafallopian transfer is not technically in vitro fertilisation because with GIFT, fertilisation takes place inside the body, not on a petri dish.
Prelude Fertility is a network of fertility clinics in the United States that offer fertility services including in vitro fertilization (IVF), egg donation, genetic testing, and egg freezing.
These classes formed the backbone of the state, forming the empire's civil and military administration.
In February 2016, scientists at the Francis Crick Institute in London were given a license permitting them to edit human embryos using CRISPR to investigate early development.
The first application of this method in Latin America was held in Argentina on 13 May 1986, and was led by Dr.
Ala (also known as Ani, Ana, Ale, and Ali in varying Igbo dialects) is the female Alusi (deity) of the earth, morality, fertility, and creativity in Odinani.
Religious leaders' opinions on fertility treatments; for example, the Roman Catholic Church views infertility as a calling to adopt or to use natural treatments (medication, surgery, or cycle charting), and members must reject assisted reproductive technologies.
See also Sperm bank Sperm donor Egg donor Surrogacy Third party reproduction Embryo donation Artificial insemination IVF Reproductive medicine Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI) == References ==
Further chemicals may be added which separate the most active sperm in the sample, as well as extend or dilute the sample so that vials for a number of inseminations are produced.
Following the September 11 attacks, the church posted on its website a four-minute music video titled I Like to Watch, combining hardcore pornography with footage of the attacks and the collapse of the World Trade Center.
Virility is commonly associated with vigour, health, sturdiness, and constitution, especially in the fathering of children.
Because the couple was in search of an alternative natural contraceptive themselves, Berglund used data analysis to develop an algorithm designed to pinpoint her ovulation.
As a Nazi organization the German Large Family League was disbanded after Nazi Germany's defeat in World War II.
Albeit intrauterine insemination (IUI) might circumvent ASA present in the cervical mucus, in a study comprising 119 IUI, no live pregnancy was reported, suggesting involvement of other mechanisms of ASA.
There are many determinants of the intention to have children, including: The mother's preference of family size, which influences that of the children through early adulthood.
In July 2021, a three-child policy was introduced, as China's population is aging faster than almost any other country in modern history.
There is no sharp limit of development, age, or weight at which a fetus automatically becomes viable.
For these people (40% of the total), a choice is required between immediate IVF, or pelvic surgery followed by either expectant management, IUI or IVF as appropriate.
However, this does not mean that all women can be treated with assisted reproductive techniques, or that all women who are treated will achieve pregnancy.
This was levied at a rate of 2–5% of gross annual income on those under 55 who were liable for income tax; under a law of October 16, 1934, it was incorporated into the income tax beginning in January 1935.
Many of the WLSR's books and records were destroyed by the Nazis during a raid in Berlin on the institute in May 1933.
History In his 2006 State of the Nation address, Russian President Vladimir Putin called the demographic crisis the most urgent problem facing Russia and announced efforts to boost Russia's birth rate, including cash incentives to families that have more than one child.
Plant Based Oral Contraceptives Most of the indigenous peoples around the world, as well as from European antiquity all the way to the Middle Ages, contain linkages to point to the use of plant based oral contraceptives.
Some sperm banks may disallow sexually active gay men from donating sperm due to the population's increased risk of HIV and hepatitis B.
Societally-mediated complications such as financial hardship and depression are among the more common results.
This policy was central to his platform for the April 1889 by-election for Roman's 3rd College, which he won by a large margin against the socialist Vasile Morțun.
TTS proteins were also placed on various locations of semi in vivo pollinated pistils, and pollen tubes were observed to immediately extend toward the proteins.
"Short day" breeders cycle when the length of daylight shortens (fall) and are in anestrus in spring and summer.
From 2013 to 2019, Martins da Silva was a consultant gynaecologist and honorary senior lecturer at Ninewells Hospital at NHS Tayside in Dundee, Scotland.
For achieving pregnancy, no large clinical trials have been performed comparing ART and NaProTechnology.
Side effects Clinical studies have shown that the most common side effect is a slight reaction at the site of injection in the form of redness, and sometimes swelling.
Folk beliefs considered Mishaguji to be associated with fertility and the harvest, as well as healers of diseases like the common cold or pertussis.
Fertility symbols were used by Native Americans, the most common being a supernatural figure called Kokopelli, a fertility deity usually depicted as a hunchback, dancing flute player carrying a sack also shown with a large phallus.
Following several medical trials, the app became the first tech-based device to be certified for use as contraception in the European Union in February 2017 by the European inspection and certification organisation TÜV SÜD.
The Billingses issued a paper refuting the claim that the CrMS represents a standardization of the BOM.
The programme also accepted unmarried women who were either pregnant or had already given birth and were in need of aid, provided that both the woman and the father of the child were classified as "racially valuable".
Some parents resent being referred to as "breeders", and feel that the word unduly reduces the process of child-raising to animal husbandry.
If replacement level fertility is sustained over a sufficiently long period, each generation will exactly replace itself.
They all struck up the chant-verse: With fierce eyes, with glowing eyes, they seize the thumb; With fierce eyes, with glowing eyes, they rip off the nail.
Contraception is typically considered safer than pregnancy, especially in patients with medical conditions such as high blood pressure or diabetes.
In addition to expression in the endometrium, bovine uterine serpin is also expressed in the ovary (follicles, corpus luteum, and cumulus-oocyte complex) and by cotyledons Archived 2010-06-24 at the Wayback Machine of the placenta.
Support and advice The NGDS works within the UK only (England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland) to provide information, advice and support to people wishing to become donors and to people who need donors.
In prepubescent males, low doses (>1-3Gy) can cause short-term oligospermia or azoospermia, while higher doses (>2-3 Gy) can cause permanent azoospermia.
Landrum Brewer Shettles (November 21, 1909 – February 6, 2003) was an American obstetrician/gynecologist and a pioneer in the field of in vitro fertilization.
Initially, the loans required the bride to stop work immediately and not take another position during the life of the loan unless the husband was earning less than 125 RM per month.
Relationship to historical research These sacred relics were of high interest to early European anthropologists and sociologists, who were studying the nature of totemic religion and the sacred.
Greenwood, Seshadri, and Vandenbroucke ascribe the baby boom to the diffusion of new household appliances that led to reduction of costs of childbearing.
It has been proposed that there should be an upper limit on how long frozen sperm can be stored; however, a baby has been conceived in the United Kingdom using sperm frozen for 21 years and andrology experts believe sperm can be frozen indefinitely.
Regardless of whether anal penetration occurs by using a finger or the penis, the condom is the best barrier method to prevent transmission of STI.
to overcome issues of infertility), or through third party reproduction, notably by artificial insemination.
Insurance stipends, pregnancy leave, job security, light duty, child care services and payments for large families.
Between 60 and 85% of women, mostly with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), ovulate successfully in response to clomiphene with a cumulative pregnancy rate of 30 to 40%.
Examples of vegetation myths In the Mesopotamian tradition, during the journey of Inanna or Ishtar to the underworld, the earth becomes sterile, and neither humans nor animals are able to procreate.
An article in The Phoenix magazine, from October 2025, suggested that the matter remained contested between the Kelly and Leahy factions.
While many abiotic and biotic factors influence population control, humans are notably influential against animal populations.
A fetus or foetus (; pl.: fetus, foetus, or fetuses, foetuses) is the unborn offspring of a viviparous animal that develops from an embryo.
The party defends the liberalization of Spanish labour laws, lower taxation, and support for the self-employed.
family history) and recommended to test parental chromosomes rather than the products of conception.
In the mid-1990s he was accused of transferring ova harvested from women into other patients without proper consent at the University of California, Irvine's fertility clinic.
After two weeks, the pregnant woman is at risk of developing blood clotting problems, and labor induction is recommended at this point.
In 1980, Cooper Laboratories reorganized into three business groups: CooperVision, CooperCare and CooperBiomedical, with Cooper Medical Devices Corp.
Since males are equally invested in the offspring as the mother, both genders are expected to display mate choice, a phenomenon termed as mutual mate choice.
White-tailed deer may be controlled with contraceptives in suburban areas, where they are sometimes a nuisance.
These advancements in genome editing now reduce off-target effects, allowing for more controlled and predictable modifications.
Inari also appears in the form of a snake or dragon, and one folktale has Inari appear to a wicked man in the shape of a monstrous spider as a way of teaching him a lesson.
Wildlife contraceptives, sometimes referred to as wildlife fertility control, are contraceptives used to regulate the fertility of wild animals.
The "standard model" in general use in Europe in 2007 is three cycles of IUI in alternate menstrual cycles, followed by IVF if the IUI is unsuccessful.
background and medical information) about the birth parents will be shared with the adoptive parents.
Hyaluronic acid (HA) binding sites on the sperm plasma membrane are an indicator of sperm maturity (Huszar et al., 2003, Yudin et al.,1999).
This work established the technical foundation and legal-ethical framework surrounding the clinical use of human oocyte and embryo donation, a mainstream clinical practice, which has evolved over the past 25 years.
Legality and financial issues The legal status and cost/compensation models of egg donation vary significantly by country.
An ova bank, or cryobank, or egg cell bank is a facility that collects and stores human ova, mainly from ova donors, primarily for the purpose of achieving pregnancies of either the donor, at a later time (i.e.
This is a list of German states by fertility rate as of 2022 according to the Federal Statistical Office of Germany.
Brands include: Norplant, Jadelle (Norplant II), Implanon, Nexplanon, Sino-implant (II), Zarin, Femplant and Trust.
Lora, José María Murcia; Martínez, Oscar Martínez; Simoni, Jennifer; Calvo, Marian Martínez; Andrés, Alberto Falces de; Mejía, Jorge Enrique; Simoni, Diglio; Alcázar, Juan Luis (2022).
The spermatozoon fertilizes an ovum or various ova in the uterus or oviducts, and this results in one or multiple zygotes.
Estimates suggest that less than 2Gy of radiation could destroy half of a female’s immature oocytes.
In the UK, referrals are only given to women under 40 who have either undergone 12 cycles of artificial insemination, or have tried and failed to conceive for 2 years.
The temple, set within a walled compound and located on the west side of Cheju Castle, contains a phallic shrine which was visited by female pilgrims who came to worship it for its alleged fertility blessings.
It is safe and effective in people who have previously been pregnant, are breastfeeding, or have never been pregnant.
He was fined $50,000 by the judge in the case, required to repay more than $14,000 in restitution to insurance companies, and had to wear an electronic monitoring device.
In October 2011, seventeen pregnant women (thirty according to some sources) were found in Ihiala, Anambra, in a hospital of the Iheanyi Ezuma Foundation.
Election results Dáil Éireann European Parliament Local elections References External links Official website
Demography In demographic contexts, fertility refers to the actual production of offspring, rather than the physical capability to produce which is termed fecundity.
Separately, reviewers and user feedback describe alerting based on unusual increases in activity (eg.
History On June 16, 2001, 16-year-old Zef Hemel along with collaborators Jeff Lewis, Corey Chapman, T.
In September 2010, i-Jet Media and Playdom announced that i-Jet Media would publish social games by Playdom in European social networks.
Moon Palace was the only place in the world where Mitron energy could be used legally, making it far more abundant than any other part of the world, and many people in the world wanted to live there.
Modeled after the traditional “public square” where townspeople would gather to exchange views, a digital public square provides a virtual platform for the exploration of issues and the sharing of ideas, creativity and opinions while developing solutions to a community's challenges.
Google allowed third parties to build their own Wave services (be it private or commercial) because it wanted the Wave protocol to replace the e-mail protocol.
The League is a social and dating mobile application launched in 2015 and available in several cities all over the world on iOS and Android.
The project describes itself as having a core of volunteers; some contributors have been paid for their work.
Because Betable possesses gambling licenses from the United Kingdom Gambling Commission that allow it to provide gambling services on another party's behalf, developers can enable betting within their games without applying for any licenses themselves.
The ability to like users' comments was added in June 2010, and the ability to react with one of five pre-defined emotions, including "Love", "Haha", "Wow", "Sad", or "Angry", was added in May 2017.
On the back of investments made into Club Nokia, Nokia launched a new service Preminet to its operators, designed to distribute certified Java- and Symbian-based mobile software to make cell-phone applications easier to buy, sell, and distribute.
The shortest distance between you and your customer." Get Satisfaction online communities can be a private and/or public place for customers to ask questions, submit an idea or complaint, or give praise.
Monilink Limited (stylized MONILINK) was the banking service operating in the United Kingdom that gave customers access to their financial information directly from their mobile phones.
The creation of a new standard for decentralized social networking was prompted by the complexity of OStatus, the most commonly used protocol at the time.
References External links Announcement of PlayNow arena Announcement of PlayNow plus Official PlayNow arena with movies website
Zeal – volunteer-built Web directory; it was introduced in 1999, acquired by LookSmart in 2000, and shut down in 2006.
The WordPress Mobile Pack was initially developed in 2009, by James Pearce, who is now running open source at Facebook, with the contribution of Terence Eden, a Mobile Product Manager at O2 (UK), and Andrea Trasatti part of Developer Relations, at the Samsung Strategy and Innovation Center.
In 2012, the company won the second round of Appsfuel HTML5 App Challenge and Mobile Web App of the Day Award from TheFWA.com.
On December 1, 2017, Style Jukebox discontinued their service with a very small post on their home page, and no further details were released.
Channels The vast majority of BreadTube content is in English, and most BreadTubers are American or British.
With Matt Bruck and Khinlei Myint-U, the team wrote a business plan and Agents Inc took second place in the 1995 MIT 10K student business plan competition.
History Rumors about the service began to surface around the internet in September 2008, whereas it was referred to as "Skymarket", and was to appear with the Windows Mobile 7 release.
Other media Anime An anime adaption of the game, titled as Slap-up Party: Arad Senki (スラップアップパーティ −アラド戦記−, Surappuappu Pāti -Arado Senki-; lit and titled in original Korean as Dungeon and Fighter: Slap-up Party (던전 앤 파이터 슬랩업 파티).
Collaborative software is a broad concept that overlaps considerably with computer-supported cooperative work (CSCW).
Alternative app stores use Android devices' "Unknown Sources" option to install APK files directly via the Android Package Manager.
Hatena Bookmark counts the number of users per specific URL, and so it is possible to see what bookmarks are popular among Hatena users.
History While being the main project within its lineage, GNU social originally began as a fork of StatusNet.
Dalilmasr – Egyptian online directory Google Directory – copy of DMOZ directory, with sites listed in PageRank order within each category.
Corcoran decided to create a more open marketplace for indie games in MoonScript, inspired by Bandcamp's model.
It's a fact, and a well-known fact I think, that the level of take-up of the Ultranet has been nothing like what was intended." An audit by the Victorian auditor general's office found "the Ultranet was poorly planned and implemented.
During September - November 2010 the company went through Startupbootcamp located in Copenhagen, Denmark.
Following the discontinuation of Zune hardware in 2011, the software program was put into maintenance mode.
The service was offered directly to consumers and SME:s, but also indirectly with a white label solution via partners such as telecom operators, ISP:s and large consumer brands.
DSNP can improve user data privacy and security by permitting fine-grained management of their personal information.
BBS: The WELL, GEnie, The Meta Network Academic: EIES, Usenet Webcomic: UserFriendly, Penny Arcade, Sluggy Freelance Virtual world/city: LucasFilm's Habitat, Second Life, Millsberry, Red Light Center, IMVU, Neopets, Roblox IM: ICQ, Yahoo!
In October 2022, Magpie Games announced that early access for Avatar Legends Nexus, Demiplane's digital toolset Avatar Legends: The Roleplaying Game, was launching that month.
As with other similar platforms, such as the Google Play and Mac App Store, Microsoft Store is curated, and apps must be certified for compatibility and content.
The like button is one of Facebook's social plug-ins, in which the button can be placed on third-party websites.
Thomas initially funded the company himself, with servers operating out of the basement of his home.
This is a list of notable social software: selected examples of social software products and services that facilitate a variety of forms of social human contact.
Creating 3D Posts There were four ways to get a 3D asset to appear in a Facebook Post: Drag and drop an asset into Facebook's Post composer and publish it.
See also Citizen journalist Mobile journalism Ushahidi References External links Wireless and the Future of the Newspaper Business
Players can create and customize their own 3D worlds and 3D content such as vehicles, mini-games, avatar clothing and gestures, and sell them for real world money.
This provides a positive and encouraging learning environment for students, especially students in a virtual classroom.
Founded in 2013, the company produces and distributes live shows (such as sports or music events) and video clips (such as pre-match warm-ups, behind-the-scene activities, and instant highlights).
while users can select a preference for the race of partners they'd like to meet, it's not a hard filter.
Under the plan, developers who carry out ad campaigns on DU Ad Platform will receive 100 percent of the revenues from those campaigns.
Social technology is also split between human-oriented technologies and artifact-oriented technologies.
See also Comparison of file hosting services Comparison of file synchronization software Comparison of online backup services Cloud storage Remote backup service References External links Syncplicity website Syncplicity Ad
This list is a comparison of web conferencing software available for Linux, macOS, and Windows platforms.
As of May 2023, the protocol was reported to have over 18 million registered users across its network.
Actor Dylan McDermott was introduced to WhoSay by his agent, as a way of easily posting content to Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr and even China's Tencent social network with relative ease.
The exact nature of this relationship changes according to the intention of the annotation, but the body is most frequently somehow "about" the target.
Originally developed by Facebook engineers after the 2011 Japanese tsunami, Safety Check for Workplace allows organizations to identify employees who may be affected by a crisis and send and monitor responses.
Users could access application descriptions, screenshots, user reviews and ratings, and download or purchase software directly on their devices.
Restaurants, cafes and bars can be filtered across multiple criteria: Wi-Fi, 24/7, playground, non-smoking, and more.
History In 2007, UNICEF Innovation used RapidSMS to develop U-Report, a platform that would allow anyone to publish real-time information and data analytics in SMS format without the need of a programmer.
Use on Facebook The like button is a feature of social networking service Facebook, where users can like content such as status updates, comments, photos and videos, links shared by friends, and advertisements.
Latterly, Monilink offered customers the chance to check their bank balance in real-time, view a mini statement detailing the last six transactions and add credit to up to five pay as you go phones.
Previously aligned with the promotion of ringtones, wallpapers, and SMS subscription services, mobile phone content advertising now applies to in-app ads, webpage ads, social media campaigns, video ads, push notifications, and content sponsored with creators.
Both brands of AlterGeo and Gvidi were given the highest possible index of AAA in the Russian Startup Rating, and top its IT section.
See also COVID-19 pandemic in Iran References External links https://shad.ir/ Archived 2021-07-28 at the Wayback Machine Official website
Technology In 2013, Vibes initiated the deployment of Wallet Manager, a platform enabling enterprises to develop and oversee mobile wallet campaigns utilizing Apple's Passbook and Google Wallet.
It claims to be able to publish customers' banners throughout the Internet (via several RTB ad exchanges) and display them on desktop and mobile devices within small geographic areas (the minimum radius is 500 meters).
The handheld features four lettered buttons (X, Y, A, B), a directional pad, and Start, Select, and Power buttons.
There are also massively multiplayer collectible card games: Alteil, Astral Masters and Astral Tournament.
LIBOX offered this service for free thanks to a patent pending combination of peer-to-peer, grid and distributed computing technologies.
While the Ultranet was designed with online safety as a priority, the lack of modern Web 2.0 tools forced users to embed content from other sources, somewhat undermining the safety and privacy priority.
iOS client Interfaces The communication between the Android client applications and the store is done using a XML file called info.xml.
Along with the announcement, they released the first official module for Dungeons & Dragons 5th edition, Lost Mine of Phandelver, on the Roll20 Marketplace; which was followed by other releases.
This is based on the results of the October 2022 Cross Web Mediascope study, implemented on the Android-only approach.
History The Amazon Appstore launched on March 22, 2011 and was made available in nearly 200 countries.
It was founded on January 31, 2007, by several people, including Lane Becker, Amy Muller, Thor Muller, and Jonathan Grubb.
Mobile content is any type of web hypertext and information content and electronic media which is viewed or used on mobile phones, like text, sound, ringtones, graphics, flash, discount offers, mobile games, movies, and GPS navigation.
The transfer of assets from LLC to NPO was completed in April 2011 and in May 2011, Simple Machines, LLC was dissolved.
According to the 2012 verdict of the Labour Court of Budapest, Unisys acted illegally and was ordered to pay unpaid wages and benefits, legal costs, and three months' average salary as compensation.
D2L Lumi In 2024, D2L launched D2L Lumi, a set of artificial intelligence-powered features to support building content, assessments, and activities.
Sony tried to leverage the Cybershot technology in a multimedia strategy, but it was too slow of a change.
A later review (under EMC ownership) found that Syncplicity might not be able to compete well with Dropbox and Sugarsync on price and storage, but has features, including security and availability, that might be attractive to business users.
Acquisition by Roll20 In June 2024, it was announced that the virtual tabletop (VTT) company Roll20 had acquired Demiplane.
Two days after it was launched in February 2023, Damus was removed from the Chinese version of the App Store per a directive from the Cyberspace Administration of China.
Lewis and Fung split off from the YaBB SE team to try a different approach for addressing the YaBB SE efficiency problems, security concerns, and to add new features.
Companies can respond to issues regarding their products or services; official responses are marked as official answers to separate them from other responses.
Organization Simple Machines Forum is an open-source discussion board software project of volunteers participating in various operating functions including development, customization, documentation, localization/translation, user support, and marketing.
Style Jukebox was a hi-fi high-resolution audio cloud music streaming and storage player for the Windows, iOS, Android and Windows Phone platforms.
The 2022 version contained more than 500 items, and raised US$216,000 for 431 creators even though it had a "pay what you want" option.
Cotter attributes that to "the community hosting a spectrum of beliefs, ranging from social democratic to Maoist".
Brendan Jordan hosted Club Q on April 29, 2020, where Big Freedia, Uffie, Aluna (of AlunaGeorge), Messer (Mitch Grassi), Casey MQ, Edge Slayer, and drag performers Junior Mint and Paris L'Hommie performed.
The fifth drop box is the “Nuclear Energy”, which when picked up recharges the Overdrive – a unique hull ability.
Results indicated that organizations still rely on outdated, standardized IT models, preventing them from benefitting from newer networked technologies.
Later, the community created a public facial recognition database to quickly find suspects in terabytes of footage.
Taiwanese BBS software Formosa BBS Formosa BBS established in October 1992 by Professor Nien-Hsing Chen of the National Sun Yat-sen University (NSYSU).
Samsung Mobile Applications, an app store powered by Handango launched at Mobile World Congress 2009 providing software for Windows Mobile, Symbian, and (from August) Java ME.
As of December 2025, the App Store hosts Absher (application), a stalkerware app by the Saudi government.
The rules of the game are based on real hockey rules with some variations due to the 2d nature of the game.
On the other hand, Mohammad Mehdi Nooripour and Majid Najafizadeh, Representatives of students and teachers of Iran thanked the Minister of Education for setting up this network at a meeting of Student Organization.
And we eventually got to this idea of a thumb going up with a number next to it, which, again, I know it sounds simple, but we’ve never seen that before." Digg allowed users to discover and share web content by submitting links and voting them up ("digg") or down ("bury").
Both the website and the mobile site include information on short film festivals that take place across Europe.
In February 2015, Vibes unveiled WalletAds, a product facilitating advertisers' integration with Apple's Passbook and Google Wallet.
History In 2010, Evernote raised $20 million in funding led by DoCoMo Capital and Morgenthaler Ventures as the service continued to expand its user base.
Microsoft discontinued Nokia Store in 2015, and users were transitioned to Opera Mobile Store as the new application store for legacy Nokia devices.
Applications Social cloud computing has been highlighted as a potential benefit to large-scale computing, video gaming, and media streaming.
The codec could scale up to high definition resolutions of 1920 x 1080 pixels at 24 frames per second.
store had access to applications, tones, videos, graphics, games, and news content from aggregators Nokia Software Market, WidSets, and third-parties like Handango, Jamster and Yahoo!
Samsung Galaxy S8 In April 2017, reports surfaced that the default music player on the then-new Samsung Galaxy S8 would be Google Play Music, continuing a trend that started with the S7 in 2016.
The series was presented by Bravo!FACT and co-produced by marblemedia and the National Film Board of Canada (NFB).
In November 2013 i.TV acquired GetGlue, maker of a leading second screen and social TV check-in platform.
Co-Browsing: the navigation of the Web by several people accessing the same web pages at the same time.
A social bookmarking website is a centralized online service that allows users to store and share Internet bookmarks.
Standard users located in the United States, Canada, and India could also listen to curated radio stations, supported by video and banner advertisements.
a document) its accessibility/visibility within the application (invisible, downloadable, etc.) Workspace-level permissions, refers to the ability to create team spaces with different accessibility/visibility settings.
It was developed in the spirit of the Acid test by the Web Standards Project to test the relevant parts that a mobile browser needs to support.
Bratton, Weiss and Riker initially founded Bratton Technologies as a professional networking platform for law enforcement officials called BlueLine Connect.
The service was developed by a team of students and scientists from the Institute of Knowledge and Data Engineering, the DMIR group at the University of Würzburg and the L3S Learning Lab Lower Saxony in Hannover and is mainly hosted by the University of Kassel.
Despite the advantages of distributed search, it shares several same security concerns as the traditionally centralized case.
In 2013, Financial Times listed AlterGeo among four "Russia's next tech titans", together with Yandex, Ozon and Ecwid, whereas Informilo included it in its "Russia's Top 25 Hottest Tech Companies" list one year earlier.
Grokster: Day 1 - March 30, 2005 MP3 Newswire recap of first day of trial Legally Speaking: Did MGM Really Win the Grokster Case?
F-Droid tries to check the source code and remove issues, but warns that the checking is not exhaustive.
He founded D2L while studying systems design engineering during his third year at the University of Waterloo.
They examine still photos and video footage from publicly available sources, social media sites like Twitter and Parler, video platforms, and other social media and submit that research to the FBI in the form of a tip.
Enterprise social software (also known as or regarded as a major component of Enterprise 2.0), comprises social software as used in "enterprise" (business/commercial) contexts.
History Webcrumbz Ltd, the company running Appticles was founded in London, in 2010 by Alexandra Anghel and Ciprian Borodescu.
Pricing Purchases are made in the Microsoft Points currency, which can also be used to purchase content from Xbox Live and Games for Windows Live marketplaces.
See also List of free and open-source iOS applications List of iOS games List of mobile app distribution platforms References External links Official website
Popularity and growth After its establishment in 2010, Buffer's total revenue per year increased to $1 million in January 2013, and then crossed $2 million in September of the same year through the growth of customers using the application.
In 2023, Unisys was named a Forbes’ Best Employers for Women, Best Employers for Diversity, and one of America’s Best Midsize Employers.
Music on Zune Marketplace was offered by the big four music groups (EMI, Warner Music Group, Sony BMG and Universal Music Group), as well as smaller music labels.
My Obscure Object of Desire: Ann Marie Fleming - In the animated short My Obscure Object of Desire, the heart will go to any lengths to become the object of its love's desire.
In the case study of SmartBlog, a system created to support mobile blogging, key principles were developed after assessing bloggers' needs.
Altos 68000 PicoSpan Amiga Ami-Express – aka "/X", very popular in the crackers/warez software scene.
BreadTube, also called LeftTube, is a loose and informal group of online personalities who create video content, including video essays and livestreams, from socialist, social democratic, communist, anarchist, and other left-wing perspectives.
However heavy server loads caused the system to crash around 9.00am and teaching was unable to continue.
Some sources indicate that right-wing and cyberlibertarian creators frequently take antagonistic stances toward political opponents, while many BreadTubers focus on analyzing and interpreting opposing arguments, sometimes incorporating elements of subversion, humor, or "seduction".
Windows Phone Store was a digital distribution platform developed by Microsoft for the Windows Phone.
On January 20, 2025, the first day of his second presidency, Donald Trump issued a pardon of January 6 United States Capitol attack defendants, granting blanket clemency to everyone charged in connection with the attack.
Alternate business models involve offering free videos in the 'tube' style of websites with advertising funding.
Samsung also held a developer challenge called Free the TV Challenge, which was won by WeDraw in 2010, an application that could draw on mobile and display on the TV screen.
In November, Mobinergy, a mobile device management software company, was acquired; and in December, Unisys acquired CompuGain, an Amazon Web Services Advanced Consulting Partner.
If the camera phone is equipped for Autogeotagging, the blog may be able to show a map of the locations.
(However, not all programming will be shown due to rights restrictions.) In March 2008, the Web site was revamped with changes including the home page and the video player, with a new Catch Up TV section.
Lewis and Fung did a complete rewrite of the code and changed the brand name to Simple Machines Forum (SMF).
Simple Machines Forum (SMF) software is an open-source web application that provides Internet forum and message board services.
In 2013 and 2014, the project became the winner of the "Runet Prize" in the "Popular Vote" category.
ID Trackback is used to inform other users about what a user mentions on their Hatena Diary, and is designed to accelerate interaction between users of the service.
AlterGeo, formerly known as Wi2Geo, is a Russian IT company specializing in the development of a global hybrid positioning system which combines Wi-Fi, WiMAX, GSM, GPS, LTE, IP address and network environment approaches.
Nokia argued customers used the carriers' mobile data to download content, but network operators remained resistant.
In February 2022, Instagram announced that IGTV would be discontinued in March 2022, electing to focus on video functionality in the main app (including Reels).
Eos was launched as a homegrown addition to Cisco’s Consumer portfolio in January 2009 at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES).
Since then, dedicated adult-only app stores like MiKandi and other mobile internet publishers have benefited from this gap in the market instead.
While it is source-available, redistribution and/or distribution of modified components is limited to authorized entities.
Workplace uses machine learning to rank information in a user's news feed and make recommendations, while 'downranking' less relevant information.
Celltick Technologies was an American telecom technology company specializing in emergency population warning systems, cell broadcasting and mass notification platforms.
It also surpassed 2,400 mobile developers worldwide, a 50% increase over its user base in 2016, with the number of third-party app users grew by more than 110%.
Due to U-Report's success in Uganda, UNICEF expanded the program to Zambia in December 2012 and to Nigeria in June 2014.
Answers Social login Social networks Social search Jumper 2.0 Knowledge Plaza Social customer support software Virtual worlds Active Worlds Google Lively (now defunct) Kaneva Second Life There Meez Wikis == References ==
Studies have shown that people are more likely to intervene when they are the only one in a situation.
See also aNobii Douban Goodreads LibraryThing Shelfari References External links BookArmy (website link rerouting to http://www.harpercollins.co.uk/)
B2B function and partnerships AlterGeo's hybrid positioning system allows web and mobile software developers as well as device manufacturers to position their users in order to provide them with location-aware features and collect relevant location-based statistics for marketing issues.
Emerging technologies Emerging technological capabilities to more widely distribute hosting and support much higher bandwidth in real time are bypassing central content arbiters in some cases.
Hatena Keyword Hatena Keywords is Hatena's dictionary service and automatically links to common Hatena services which mention the keyword.
History The company was founded by Ilja Laurs in 2004, who was its Executive Chairman, and Chris Dury, who was the CEO.
Web clipping support is installed by default on the Internet Explorer and Safari browsers when the Evernote software is installed on Windows or macOS.
Independent operating systems are software collections that use their own software distribution, customised user interface (UI), software development kit (SDK) and application programming interface (API) (except billing API which is related only to the application store).
U-Report is a social messaging tool and data collection system developed by UNICEF to improve citizen engagement, inform leaders, and foster positive change.
A researcher suggested the concept of the Semantic Web-interoperability could be useful for argumentative structures on the Web, going beyond the conventional flat structures of discussions and lack of characterizations of their components as implemented in argüman.
Huawei AppGallery — commonly reported HMS / AppGallery figures (220k+ HMS apps; ~580M MAU) are from Huawei / industry reporting in 2022; Huawei's HarmonyOS native app totals (HarmonyOS NEXT) and developer counts have been advanced in Huawei's 2024–2025 messaging (see Harmony Developers report).
See also List of social platforms with at least 100 million active users References External links Official website
Commonly referred to as GCM, Google Cloud Messaging served as C2DM's successor, making improvements to authentication and delivery, new API endpoints and messaging parameters, and the removal of limitations on API send-rates and message sizes.
North America The North American mobile erotica market differs from Europe in that carriers were slow to allow adult sites to use their subscriber payment mechanisms such as SMS, slowing market growth.
Jack Dorsey, the co-founder of Twitter, has endorsed and financially supported the development of Nostr by donating approximately $250,000 worth of Bitcoin to the developers of the project in 2023, as well as a $10 million cash donation to a Nostr development collective in 2025.
Reception Simultaneously with the unveiling of the software, many students and teachers criticized the software.
The platform was created to be self-hosted and currently comes with pretty normal requirements, working with most shared hosting environments around.
Patent-infringement lawsuits Klausner Technologies Inc is a corporation based in Sagaponack, New York, that invented visual voice mail technology in 1994.
HumHub is a free and open-source social network software written on top of the Yii PHP framework that provides an easy-to-use toolkit for creating and launching your own social network.
Malicious software issues On 1 September 2005, the United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team issued an advisory concerning Miniclip: The Retro64 / Miniclip CR64 Loader ActiveX control contains a buffer overflow vulnerability.
Features The availability of music encompasses numerous releases from mainstream artists and extends to any video categorized as music on the YouTube platform.
According to founders of dating apps, including The League, this is because modern dating app algorithms downrank people when left-swiped (passed on), and uprank when right-swiped (approved).
Firebird BBS Firebird BBS is one of two main telnet-based Bulletin board systems developed in Taiwan.
Mobile devices have expanded beyond basic communication and now these devices can support multimedia creation tools.
Lockheed Martin and Unisys paid the government $3.15 million to settle allegations that Unisys inflated the prices of spare parts sold to the U.S.
Microsoft Office Live Communications Server 2003 (LCS), provided many capabilities that were notably absent from the company's earlier Exchange IM solution, including encryption, logging, and standards-based protocols.
While prizes are generally plentifully scattered throughout the map, the upgrades or abilities they award are randomly selected by the zone.
Alongside all documents on Quip is a live updating history of edits made, as well as the ability to highlight portions of a document and add comments, which facilitates collaboration.
Applications Zune Marketplace included an applications section where apps and games could be downloaded for the Zune HD.
Developers can use secret URLs, password protection and limit the number of sales, and add tiered purchases and rewards.
The DPS offers a platform for dialogue and encourages people to connect in a virtual setting to establish relationships that can effect social change.
Grokster on 29 March 2005, and in June 2005, the court unanimously held that Grokster could indeed be sued for infringement for their activities prior to the date of this judgment.
A year later it was redesigned to "catalyze a big increase in traffic, across downloads, users, and total number of apps".
In 2021, YouTube Music introduced a seasonal recap feature, which serves as a culmination of a user's top artists, songs, albums and playlists, in a similar style to Spotify Wrapped.
Knack and Keefer (1997) used indicators of trust and civic norms from the World Values Survey for a sample of 29 market economies.
In March 2018, TapTap was fined for violating games publishing laws in China, among other companies, and shut down its service for 3 months.
Thor Muller explained in an interview with BusinessWeek that the website aims to be simple, noting that most customer-service solutions are too complex.
Per Microsoft lifecycle policies, the RTM version of Windows 8 has been unsupported since January 12, 2016, excluding some Embedded editions, as well its server equivalent, Windows Server 2012.
According to Cafe Bazaar, there are about 120 non-Iranian publishers and developers, with over 800 apps, that offer apps through its platform.
Kids and parents will enjoy reading, watching and playing with Miss Spider and her family of bugs in this brightly colored story and game app." == References ==
Buffer also displays sent post metrics on their free plan and has a "Create" space to store social media post ideas.
On February 20, 2018 Facebook added support for the industry-standard glTF 2.0 file format for Facebook 3D posts.
Dungeon & Fighter: Spirit Dungeon & Fighter: Spirit was the first mobile release of the series released in Korea in 2016.
HUVs are faster than regular cars and have better driving skills, so regular cars can't even approach them.
There is also a sixth drop box, called "Crystal Box", that gives 10 crystals upon collecting it, but they only show up in battles from Recruit to Master Sergeant and in event modes.
Along with Skyscanner and Apptopia, Braze published the Ready for Takeoff 2021 Travel Industry Trends, Insights and Strategies.
Further development In the late 2009 work on a new game - Tanki 2.0 began, however the project was eventually cancelled.
YouMail identifies problematic numbers through its audio fingerprinting technology and analysis of calling patterns, along with direct consumer feedback.
The developers began working on a full-scale MMO action game based on this demo in 2009, which became Tanki Online.
District Judge Phyllis Hamilton, who was presiding over Apple's case against Amazon, said she would "probably" deny Apple's motion to stop Amazon from using the "App Store" name.
Strip Show: Adam & Dave - Adam Brodie and Dave Derewlany's short film about an internet seductress who gets duped into performing out of character, acts before the camera.
YouMail virtual numbers and receptionist YouMail virtual numbers provide a second phone number, for example to separate business calls from personal calls, while keeping cell phones private and protected from unwanted calls.
Internet Public Library – librarian-edited directory, product of a merger with the Librarians' Internet Index (LII) in 2010.
In 2007, Maffia New was published on Rambler.ru as well as Time to Enforce, Real Wars and Steel Giants were launched.
History Samsung and LG were the first to tout new generation mobile phones that would allow users to watch live multi-channel TV on the move during International Broadcasting Convention (IBC) in Amsterdam in September 2005.
References External links Official website marblemedia NFB Collections page for The Art of Seduction
Increased Wi-Fi availability and mobile broadband adoption have changed the way people are going online.
While some marketers attempt to manipulate app stores with black hat strategies, the success of such techniques has become increasingly difficult through the years.
For each sex, there were three accounts using stock photographs, two with actual photographs of volunteers, one with no photos whatsoever, and one that was apparently deactivated.
A few of these companies also offer their own user-generated video sharing website both for commercial purposes and to show off their platform.
The games' expenses are typically funded by sponsors or through donations (which have no effect in the game itself).
WhoSay does not allow consumers to create accounts, nor does it include search features, making it difficult to access a celebrity's account unless a user is directed there from one of their other social pages.
Pamela Samuelson Technical Background of Grokster Decision - Philip Larson's Blog Legal Background of Grokster Decision - Philip Larson's Blog Summary of Supreme Court Decision - Philip Larson's Blog Advanced Peer-Based Technology Business Models.
In May 2013, Amazon introduced Amazon Coins as a form of payment for purchasing apps, games, and in-app purchases from the store.
was introduced to the app, which allows users to answer five questions regarding which historical event of two given events occurred first.
Bradford insists that the League's policies are meant to make the service more egalitarian, not less -- at least when it comes to race.
FirstClass (SoftArc) Hermes Second Sight TeleFinder Microsoft Windows Excalibur BBS Maximus Mystic BBS MS-DOS and compatible Citadel – including DragCit, Cit86, TurboCit, Citadel+ FBB (F6FBB) – packet radio BBS system, still in use.
Drift City (also known as Skid Rush (스키드러쉬) in South Korea) is a massively multiplayer online racing video game developed by NPluto and sponsored by several major automotive companies such as Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep, and U1 Technology.
Nokia Download!, originally Nokia Catalogs, was a mobile application for Nokia devices that allowed access to digitally distributed media content.
In May 2010, the company published Farm Frenzy, in cooperation with an international casual game publisher and distributor Alawar Entertainment.
A number of organizations within the Wikimedia movement including the Wikimedia Foundation publish official mobile apps for mobile access to Wikipedia.
Another reason UNICEF cited for introducing the program in Uganda was the nation's high cellphone use compared to other developing nations, with 48% of the nation's citizens owning a cellphone.
This list of mobile app distribution platforms includes digital distribution platforms, or marketplace 'app stores', intended to provide mobile applications, aka 'apps' to mobile devices.
Nexus Customers can use a specific game's Nexus by purchasing access to licensed content in Demiplane's marketplace.
Several more companies later joined the platform, including Time Warner Cable, Verizon, Comcast, Mozilla, Mogo Money, Microsoft Hohm, AMC Theatres, Qantas, Apple Inc., Dell, and Facebook.
In Aptoide, unlike the Android-default Play Store and iOS-default App Store, there is not a unique and centralized store; instead, each user manages their own store.
Cryptographic proof of ownership techniques allow decentralized networks to minimize the exposure of users' sensitive information.
The Opera Mobile Store then forwards the user to the country-specific store based on the location information provided by the mobile carrier or ISP.
ActivityPub is considered to be an update to the ActivityPump protocol used in pump.io, and the official W3C repository for ActivityPub is identified as a fork of ActivityPump.
In contrast to traditional enterprise software, which imposes structure prior to use, enterprise social software tends to encourage use prior to providing structure.
For information on each mobile platform and its market share, see the mobile operating system and smartphone articles.
CVG's Mike Jackson argued that the bigger screens, which made its unchanged resolution blockier, would probably be less noticeable to the older demographic for which the XL is undoubtedly designed.
Despite this failure, the next day, Ultranet held a promotional event at the Melbourne Convention and Exhibition Centre, at a cost of $1.4 million.
Schools would then have to pay NEC to use Ultranet, or find other ways to access equivalent functions.
In the series, a wave is an electronic communication, often consisting of a video call or video message.
Sinespace is a free-to-play massively multiplayer online Unity 3D-based platform created and published by Sine Wave Entertainment.
Adam Benjamin, for CNET in February 2023, stated that "of the tools we tested, D&D Beyond was far and away the simplest to get started with".
Style Jukebox allowed users to upload their personal music collection from their computer to Style Jukebox servers and listen to them from another compatible device (Android, iOS, Windows, Mac, and Windows Phone) by streaming or downloading songs for offline playback.
From 2008, Sadowski, Wierzejewski, and Wnukiewicz took over management of Grupa Pino, operating a dozen of websites, including a video-sharing site PinoTV, a microblogging platform Moblo.pl, and a slide-hosting site Slajdzik.pl.
A security breach exposed 41 million account records containing name, username, email address, DES-hashed password, gender, date of birth, and other profile info.
Roughly a year later, Quip was launched to the public as a mobile-centric tool for creating shared notes, lists, and documents.
Sports federations and media companies use cloud-based technology to produce professional-quality live streams and video clips for digital audiences.
Another issue was the development of DRM capabilities which helped prevent music piracy and gave mobile music more of a legal status.
Popular MMOs might have hundreds of players online at any given time, usually on company-owned servers.
At its most basic, a digital public square represents an evolution in how people discover, read and share news, information and content.
The Sedition Hunters community has created and deployed a number of advanced tools to help study the January 6 United States Capitol attack.
Argüman is a free and open source software for collective structured argumentation and argument analysis via argumentation graphs or argument maps in which the type of connections can be specified.
The company also developed specific solutions for precise location-based advertising (targeting, retargeting, RTB, etc.) and indoor positioning.
According to the Financial Times, AlterGeo is one of four "Russia's next tech titans".(registration required) The company was named winner and finalist of multiple domestic and international awards in the field of technology and media, and currently is a Skolkovo Innovation Center resident.
On October 23, 2006, the Simple Machines Forum project was split off from Lewis Media for the purpose of "[solidification of] the team’s commitment to continuously providing free software, without the perceived risks of corporate influence".
In 2016, Facebook created a feature called Messenger Day, which allowed users to post videos and pictures with filters for 24 hours only.
The services available on the English hatena.com site are: Hatena Haiku (a micro-blog service similar to Twitter or Jaiku.
Some current stores with the Want Button include: Burlington Coat Factory, Frederick's of Hollywood, Tommy Bahama, The Sharper Image, Acer Computer, Jimmy Jazz, and DermStore.
The majority of crimes in Moon Palace are committed by vehicles, which appear out of nowhere and speed through the city, terrorizing people on the street and paralyzing traffic.
for mobile content, is a mobile portal created for the exhibition of short films and animation series.
In August 2000, Nokia signed a deal with music publisher EMI to provide EMI-owned songs as ringtones, available from the Club Nokia website or by sending an SMS message.
On the other, cellphone technology had focused on the area of imaging, leveraging the user interest in taking pictures and the operator's need to drive data revenues through the use of its network.
Following the purchase of Demiplane, Roll20 began to support cross-platform access so that content unlocked on one platform would be automatically unlocked on the other platform.
Ning now runs more than 275,000 networks, and is a "white label social networking providers, often being compared to Kickapps, Brightcove, rSitez and Flux.
Content could be viewed or purchased on Windows PCs with the Zune software installed, Zune devices, the Xbox 360, Windows Phone phones, or the Microsoft Kin phones.
Syncplicity allows synchronization with other online services including Google Docs, Zoho, and Facebook.
With physical SIM hosting, a SIM is physically hosted in a GSM modem and SMS received by the SIM are relayed to the customer.
In April 2020, Sprinklr became the first advertising partner of TikTok, and expanded the partnership to organic content in May 2022.
Native video is video that is uploaded to or created on social networks and played in-feed, as opposed to links to videos hosted on other sites.
Later, Bratton Technologies became BlueLine Grid and the company launched a new product, also called BlueLine Grid, in May 2014.
Influences on communities Business 'cluster' is “used to represent concentrations of firms that are able to produce synergy because of their geographic proximity and interdependence” (Rosenfeld, 1997).
In 2002, the company successfully executed 100 Text-2-Screen events, marking the inception of this type of campaign within the United States, across multiple professional sporting venues.
They are able to interact with the other users through the tags, and can leave comments of up to 100 double-byte characters in length.
End of development of Google Wave On August 4, 2010, Google announced Wave would no longer be developed as a stand-alone product due to a lack of interest.
See also Collaboration technologies Enterprise portal Intranet portal List of collaborative software List of social bookmarking websites References Lockwood, A.
See also World Health Report Human Development Report The State of the World's Children World Development Report References External links U Report Global Official site
Players can also customize the shape and appearance of their avatar and buy avatars from third-party developers such as Daz 3D.
In 2009, Cengage announced it would use video from ShadowTV's seven-year archive to supplement its current archive of news broadcasts.
Promotional material promised consumers that, through the service: “The future of banking is in your hands”.
Products and services Brightspace Brightspace is a cloud-based learning management system (LMS) developed by D2L for use in K-12, higher education, and corporate training environments.
The SiteBar bookmark server is open source software published under the GPL, which enables anybody to run their own SiteBar server and keep their bookmarks under their control.
Proceedings of the International Conference on Information Systems and Design of Communication - ISDOC '14.
Only people that users are connected to and other verified public employees can view profile information, which does not contain personal contact information.
See also Hybrid positioning system Wi-Fi positioning system Location-based advertising Local positioning systems Mobile phone tracking References External links AlterGeo technology - official website (English, Russian)
A list of file sharing programs for use on computers running Linux, BSD or other Unix-like operating systems, categorised according to the different filesharing networks or protocols they access.
It has been revealed that 80% of the 1000 apps on the HarmonyOS platform have completed landscape screen transition.
Decentralized networks using protocols such as DSNP can implicitly help to enable increased user anonymity, thus enhancing a user's security and privacy.
The program sends SMS polls and alerts to its participants, collecting real-time responses, and subsequently publishes gathered data.
Relays have been criticized as being the most centralized component in the protocol's design, given their near-indispensable role in the network and a lack of clear incentives for running a relay.
In June 2010, about 300,000 software developers added apps to GetJar resulting in over one billion downloads.
The website may also interface with other kinds of services, such as citation management software and social networking sites.
Sessions focused on decentralized social networking, identity portability, and interoperability across applications.
UPnP AV media servers provide a service to UPnP AV client devices, so-called control points, for browsing the media content of the server and requesting the media server to deliver a file to the control point for playback.
The following year, Google acknowledged that about five percent of visits to its own websites had been altered by extensions with adware.
These technologies allow Guide to turn articles into news program-style episodes, incorporating video or images from the original source, while the text content of the article or blog post is read aloud by a virtual news anchor.
Web annotation can be used for the following purposes: to rate a Web resource, such as by its usefulness, user-friendliness, suitability for viewing by minors.
Features and restrictions Online Music Storage The online music storage provided native support for Mp3, M4a, and Ogg formats.
Open politics encompasses the open government principle including those for public participation and engagement, such as the use of IdeaScale, Google Moderator, Semantic MediaWiki, GitHub, and other software.
Windows Phone Store grew swiftly since its launch, and by February 2012, it had outgrown BlackBerry App World with 70,000 apps available (a milestone that BlackBerry App World passed in March 2012).
The FBI has relied on groups like the Sedition Hunters due to the large number of suspects, estimated at 2,000.
Some users noted the new app was much slower than the previous Windows and iOS versions, had many features removed, and did not work with some default keyboard layouts, including Turkish, Latvian, and Polish, due to a conflict of hardcoded key bindings.
The company launched Braze Alloys in 2018, a network of over 45 integration applications with companies like Segment, mParticle, and Amplitude.
Other websites include more complex web content voting systems; for example, five stars or reaction buttons to show a wider range of emotion to the content.
These include patents filed in 1998 relating to Van der Meer's fledgling social network Surfbook, including, according to legal papers filed by the patent holder, the ability for users to approve data using a "like" button.
In 2020, California State University used Unisys’ CloudForte and Managed Security Services to integrate its hybrid-cloud environment.
The goal was to deliver better, more relevant and personalized search results with this integration.
Webist (Selected Papers) 2010: 85-100 External links W3C Web Annotation Working Group Recommendations (as of February 23, 2017): Web Annotation Data Model Web Annotation Vocabulary Web Annotation Protocol Web Annotation Architecture, W3C's interactive illustration
In August 2024, Evernote further reduced its free plan to allow only one connected device at a time, with a maximum of two "desyncs" per month.
PlayNow was Sony Ericsson's download service for media that included music, games, ringtones, wallpapers and themes.
The company, Diino Systems AB, was founded 2004 and was based Stockholm, Sweden, with sales offices in Atlanta, London, and Mexico City.
Events TapTap Presents TapTap Presents is a Live Show, hosted by TapTap, that first streamed on July 10, 2020, unveiling game-related updates and upcoming mobile games, including Genshin Impact and Torchlight: Infinite.
Around the same time, a developer named Mikael Nordfeldth forked StatusNet with the intention of maintaining it as a personal project, dubbing it "Free Social".
Extension programming interface Google Wave is extensible through an application programming interface (API).
Starting with the 2.0 release the software is available under the BSD license, resolving the concerns.
See also List of social bookmarking websites AddThis AddToAny References Burkitt, Laurie (2010-02-22).
In 2003, it launched Handango InHand, a mobile app store that enabled users to discover, purchase, and install software directly on their mobile devices.
MITRE improved on that model by hosting the collaborative session on a server into which each user logged.
[...] We want the best answers to rise to the top, and not get buried in online discussion forums.” The service initially offered paid service plans to companies including Method Products, Timbuk2, Twitter, and Digg.
Department of Defense, Pearson Education, Virgin Group, the Smithsonian, the University of Edinburgh, Michigan State University, and other organizations.
Many BreadTube content creators are crowdfunded, and their channels often serve as introductions to left-wing politics for young viewers.
Advanced analytics Independent reviews describe Brand24 as a social listening and media monitoring platform that provides analytics for interpreting online mentions, including sentiment and other insight features.
As of the latest version, debates are presented in their entirety as a large tree which may be harder to navigate than other formats – for instance, trees "can become extremely dense, and the interface does not make it obvious which arguments the user should pay attention to".
The application allows users to be able to find local public employees by area, agency, and proximity to connect, communicate, or collaborate.
Services Wadja services include: an API that allows developers to access Wadja's product and offer them to their audience Security Wadja.com enables its members to restrict who has access to their profile and data and choose what information they want to appear on their profile.
This in turn leads to more options, greater economies of scale, while bearing additional advantages for hosting data and computing services closer to the edge where they may be needed most.
Criticism Fake "likes" The number of "likes" on Facebook can serve as a measurement of interest and/or popularity in a particular brand, product or personality, though there have also been reports of the "overblown importance" of likes.
According to Mohammad Mehdi Nooripour, chairman of the Student Organization Assembly, Shad software has about 800,000 daily visits.
The Profile tab displays the user's profile, showing how many N-Gage points the user scored scored, their reputation level (ranging between 1-5 stars), the number of friends they have, and their avatar/picture.
History The AT Protocol began development by Bluesky Social PBC, a public benefit corporation originally created as an independent research group within Twitter, Inc.
In 2012, the service was later taken over by Swiss Picture Bank with the intention to continue to run the service as before but now via the new Swedish company, New Diino AB.
In July 2023, Bluesky experienced a controversy after users discovered the social app did not prevent users from using racial slurs within their handles, and had removed discriminatory slurs from the platform's list of flagged words.
The new feature allows paying members to create and save groups of hashtags directly within the Buffer composer.
In 1935, he wrote an article called "The Place of Social Sciences in Modern Education," in which he wrote about the nature of an effective education in the social sciences to reach effective education by the willing masses.
(This list is limited to services that have their own Wikipedia article.) Free blog hosting services See also Comparison of file hosting services Comparison of online backup services == References ==
As a result, manufacturers of so-called custom ROMs, i.e., modified versions of Android, are not allowed to bundle Google apps, including the Play Store, with their software.
Roll20 also has a 'Looking For Group' service to help players and DMs find new people to play with".
Further development and challenges of e-Society depend on the use of new ICT technology and IoT in supporting smart media and smart information services.
The development of (VR) and consequently the e-Society is based on improvement and balancing of participants’ interaction methods, hardware necessary for such interaction, content presentation and effort required for development and maintenance.
The platform acts as an alternative to other forms of app monetization, such as banner ads or freemium models, by allowing developers to enable revenue-generating betting features within their games.
Such a website typically offers a blend of social and organizational tools, such as annotation, categorization, folksonomy-based tagging, social cataloging and commenting.
This first went live in the Nordic countries in August 2008 and offered additional types of free and premium content, including 1 million DRM-free tracks from record companies such as Sony Music, Warner Music, and EMI.
Many BreadTubers aim to reach audiences beyond those who already hold left-wing viewpoints rather than merely "preach to the choir".
Products Simple Machines Forum (SMF) software is written in PHP and uses MySQL for database management – it is built around established industry standards and is generally valued for its high security standards.
this requires specific version of Adobe Flash with acknowledged security issues) are capable of generating a specific type of HTTP request which allows a router implementing the UPnP IGD protocol to be controlled by a malicious web site when someone with a UPnP-enabled router visits that web site.
The team was later renamed Nintendo European Research & Development, or "NERD." NERD developed a new emulator for 2016's NES Classic Edition.
Native video formats are specific to each social platform and are designed to maximize video engagement (i.e.
See also Argumentation theory References External links arguman.org on GitHub Archived website Argüman on X
The portal, although accessible on PC with certain Internet web browsers (such as Mozilla Firefox), was conceived for viewing on mobile devices and thus only allows the download of short films on portable media players.
This service allowed subscribers to access a downloadable game portal and play advanced 3D mobile games, including MMOs.
The 2005 music video for Imogen Heap's song "Hide and Seek" was shot by Joel Peissig in portraiture, one of the first music videos in this format.
One of these extensions provides integration with the Lightning Network, a separate payment protocol that operates over the Bitcoin network, allowing the sending and requesting of small payments (nicknamed "Zaps") among Nostr users.
It includes an interface for aligning course activities and assessments with learning outcomes, as well as a data dashboard for reporting.
Hatena Notation Hatena Notation, also known as Hatena Markup, is a markup language that can be used to produce content without the use of (X)HTML.
While growth was primarily driven by Western European and North American users, popularity of the platform rose in East Asian countries like Japan as well.
Analysis of the Publication Sharing Behaviour in BibSonomy, Proceedings of the Conceptual Structures: Knowledge Architectures for Smart Applications, Springer, 2006 Dominik Benz, Andreas Hotho, Robert Jäschke, Beate Krause, Folke Mitzlaff, Christoph Schmitz, and Gerd Stumme.
RuStore is Russia’s official, state-sponsored app store, launched on May 25, 2022 by VK Corporation in cooperation with Russia’s Ministry of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media of the Russian Federation.
On 19 November 2025, HarmonyOS computers app ecosystem has 10,000+ desktop PC available apps on AppGallery.
In early 2021, Bluesky was in a research phase, with 50 people from the decentralized technology community active in assessing options and assembling proposals for the protocol.
This is a selected list of notable massively multiplayer online games which are free-to-play in some form without ever requiring a subscription or other payment.
This can then be downloaded as a ringtone or sent to another user's mobile phone" said the director of Synchro Arts, the developers.
Summary of the piracy argument It has been estimated that 90% of files shared on Grokster were downloaded illegally.
Ships maintain inertia once they are set in motion and cannot be brought to a complete stop except when in a safe zone.
Phoenix BBS Phoenix BBS was development of the Eagle BBS but incorporated a more user-friendly interface.
The project has also been involved in notable industry collaborations, including a partnership with Epic Games.
A separate app on the Play Store provides access to beta features that may not be available in the standard Wikipedia app.
On the website there is also a section called "Behind the scenes" that provides an insight into the short film industry.
i.TV's financial backers include venture capital firms Union Square Ventures (backer of Twitter, Tumblr and other companies), RRE Ventures, Rho Ventures, Time Warner Investments, DIRECTV, and others.
An "Add to Hatena Bookmark" button is integrated into a lot of famous news sites, such as asahi.com, CNET Japan, ZDNet Japan, Nikkei ITpro, and ITmedia.
Optional paid subscriptions These MMOGs offer optional additional game content through paid subscription, but are otherwise free to play.
The same year, in October, Appticles was selected as one of the finalists for How To Web Startup Spotlight Pitch Competition.
Get Satisfaction was a customer community software platform for technical support based in San Francisco, California, United States.
Artificial intelligence was announced to play a larger part in making Digg more accessible to users, Rose said at the time.
Once used, it would post a small embedded map with the user's current geographical location marked on it, as well as their local surroundings.
In February 2020, SAIC announced plans to acquire Unisys Federal, the company’s federal defense contracting operation, for $1.2 billion.
Mobile devices allowed uploads of up to 15 minutes in length with a file size of up to 650 MB, while desktop web browsers allowed uploads of up to 60 minutes in length with a file size of up to 3.6 GB.
Some companies started large mass media campaigns to advertise the fact that they had the latest tunes and largest collections of ring tones.
But posting to a "Story" will make it available to all friends for a 24-hour period and will appear as a bubble at the top of their feeds.
By April 2020, Club Q had partnered with PAPER magazine (a collaboration called PAPER x Club Quarantine) to host a series of events.
In 2012, Pink Visual established an anti-piracy service of its own that performs online copyright infringement location, trademark monitoring, copyright registration and DMCA takedown notice services for rights-holders.
Activities Braze provides customer engagement technology for MAX, Skyscanner, PureGym, Burger King, Babylon Health, Grubhub, NASCAR, OkCupid, TUI, and the NBA.
In January 2017, Quip acquired the three-person designer studio Unity & Variety, which had been developing a mobile productivity tool.
tag renaming, moving, merging) abilities that can be put in place to manage the folksonomy generated from user tagging.
In August 2019, an article in the US edition of Business Insider accused Brand24 of collecting excessive amounts of data from Instagram profiles for internet monitoring, using Brand24's own crawlers, in violation of the Instagram's terms and conditions.
Roll20 CEO Ankit Lal stated: "We want to make it as easy as possible for you to build your first character, to get into your first game, to try out playing TTRPGs.
Two prominent early BreadTubers were Lindsay Ellis, who left Channel Awesome in 2015 to start her own channel in response to the Gamergate controversy, and Natalie Wynn, who started her channel, ContraPoints, in 2016 in response to the alt-right's online dominance at the time.
History Chrome Web Store was publicly unveiled in December 2010, and was opened on February 3, 2011, with the release of Google Chrome 9.0.
See also Distributed social network ActivityPub Bluesky IP address Mastodon Nostr References External links DSNP: Distributed Social Networking Protocol Archived 2020-02-29 at the Wayback Machine Mailing list archive GitHub repository
This complements the basic voicemail to e-mail or via SMS to mobile devices which is becoming ubiquitous in that it allows better management of voicemail messages without clogging up the user's inbox and saves time filtering spam.
UPnP assumes the network runs IP, and then uses HTTP on top of IP to provide device/service description, actions, data transfer and event notification.
It was initially created as a community for users to navigate and discover new musical artists and albums.
After spinning a web to help their children plot their goal of going to bed on time for an entire week, Miss Spider and Holley meet success.
This service called Business Blueprints helped developers create high level models of their own software.
Rumors stemmed from an online job listing from Microsoft's website calling for a "Senior Product Manager".
The system monitors the user's social graphs through Facebook, Twitter, AlterGeo, Vkontakte, Foursquare etc., as well as their current location, to make recommendations.
Some dating services have been created specifically for those living with HIV and other venereal diseases in an effort to eliminate the need to lie about one's health in order to find a partner.
The company went public with an initial public offering in November 2021, on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
One of those components, Google Play Services, is a closed-source system-level process providing APIs for Google services, installed automatically on nearly all devices running Android 2.2 "Froyo" and higher.
In June 2020, Australia’s Home Affairs’ biometric identification system, built in part through partnership with Unisys, was launched.
A notable example includes a case where multiple protocol bridges have been used to conduct spam waves on the Bluesky social network (itself connected to a competing protocol, the AT Protocol) by creating posts on Nostr, bridging the post to ActivityPub and bridging it again to Bluesky.
In May 2024, Meta announced Workplace shutdown in 2026, encouraging users and system administrators to migrate to Zoom-owned Workvivo or download their data.
He envisages an informal roll-out, but on a common platform to enable future collaboration between areas.
Developer Sinespace's lead developer is Adam Frisby, who was also a key developer of the open source virtual world OpenSimulator.
The service also was broadcast alongside other PSB channels on the short lived BT Movio service, which used the DAB network in the UK to transmit video channels.
Other file synchronization services Several file synchronization and backup services launched around the same time as Syncplicity, including Live Mesh, Dropbox, and SugarSync.
The changeover will take place on 13 July and the company has additionally been renamed freenet DLS.
Club Q on April 8 2020 featured performances by Pabllo Vittar; DJS Nídia, Mazurbate (Matthew Mazur), and DJ MINAS; and Drag performers Rify Royalty and Louisiana Purchase.
Neutron Music Player, a cross platform UPnP/DLNA client which is able to read music files from UPnP/DLNA Media Server or send processed audio to UPnP/DLNA Media Renderer as an endless stream.
Online Store The online store had over 10 million indie tracks on sale in mp3 format (320 kbit/s), which were offered through a partnership with MediaNet.
Google Play Store on Android Google Play Store, shortened to Play Store on the Home screen and App screen, is Google's official pre-installed app store on Android-certified devices.
Co-browsers should support multiple frames and support embedded multimedia (e.g., if a page contains a video player, the session leader may commence synchronized playback for all users.
Darrel Fraser, then a deputy secretary of the Department of Education, was charged with obtaining property by deception, and misconduct in public office.
It allows individuals to connect across various platforms and tools without having to create and manage separate accounts, potentially reducing the division between users of individual platforms.
Technology The distributed LIBOX platform effectively creates private clouds that communicate between devices and Web browsers through a combination of algorithms, grids and peer-to-peer networking technologies.
Launch and reception A pupil-free professional development day was planned for 9 August 2010 for teaching staff to learn how to use the Ultranet.
History Riley Testut is an American developer who began to work on AltStore after Apple declined to allow his Nintendo emulator Delta on the App Store.
In addition to online comments and leaks, this speculation was also supported by the existence of the position of Ultranet 'Business Owner'.
In March 2010, Get Satisfaction launched their Facebook application that allowed companies and brands to put their customer community on their Facebook page as a tab.
On 18 January 2024, during HarmonyOS Ecosystem development event, Huawei's President of Device Cloud announced that the HarmonyOS NEXT software system marks the second stage of development for HarmonyOS.
The development of e-Society is relying and depending on the development of virtual reality (VR) technologies that insure interaction between participants of an e-Society in a more acceptable and tangible way.
Mobile news delivery Today, mobile news delivery can be done via SMS, by specialized applications, or using mobile versions of media websites.
If the remote control software package supports audio transfer, the playback software can run on the remote computer, while the music can be heard from the local computer, as though the software were running locally.
The main categories of mobile games include Puzzle/Strategy, Retro/Arcade, Action/Adventure, Card/Casino, Trivia/Word, Sports/Racing, given in approximate order of their popularity.
In November 2012, Mandala Games became the first European game developer to use the Betable platform, enabling real-money play in its title Slots by La Riviera.
DNF Duel DNF Duel is a 2.5D fighting game co-developed by Arc System Works, Eighting, and Neople, and published by Nexon.
Roll20 also contains a separate marketplace - where art assets and complete game modules are sold - and a reference compendium for several game systems.
BreadTube creators generally post videos on YouTube that are discussed on other online platforms, such as Reddit.
So, in 2014, five years after Moon Palace was built, the OMD government plans to build another city, Koinonia, next to Moon Palace.
History Research initiative Jack Dorsey, then-CEO of Twitter, Inc., first announced the Bluesky initiative in 2019 on the Twitter platform to explore the possibility of decentralizing Twitter.
Some ways of overcoming this may be to only allow computations to occur at night, or during specified times the client resources will not be in use.
The company has raised a total of $23 million in venture funding from, among others, Venture51, Greylock Partners, and Founders Fund.
Data storage and access Users with internet access and an Evernote account will have their notes automatically synchronized with a master copy held on Evernote's servers.
However, most mobile network operators have implemented age verification systems, which require that customers who want to buy porn through their phone legally prove that they are a consenting adult first.
Telefónica Digital On August 13, 2013, The New York Times reported that Telefónica Digital and Evernote entered into a global partnership agreement, giving Brazilian customers free access to Evernote Premium for one year.
History TapTap was created by Yiwan in 2016 with an investment from XD Inc., previously known for peer-to-peer download network VeryCD.
A review of Itch.io by PC Mag's Jordan Miner praised its library of more unique and artistic indie games, but conceded it catered to a more specific, "indie-centric" audience.
Some forums also allow the administrator to create multiple styles or themes, and allow the user to choose which one they wish to view.
Official content that is released for free by Wizards of the Coast is also accessible for free on D&D Beyond.
Online video platforms allow users to upload, share videos or live stream their own videos to the Internet.
An official agency or government email is not required to use the application, but it is necessary for identities to be verified in order to access the connections or information within the Grid.
Reception IGN's hands-on report found that the user interface was good and that Nokia's strategy of preloading the application on newly shipped devices will help.
Nokia acquired the company in 2007 and merged it into its Services division as Nokia Interactive Advertising.
Site users could discuss and review titles, record their own personal book collection and create reading lists.
It has been the subject of multiple issues concerning security, in which malicious software has been approved and uploaded to the store and downloaded by users, with varying degrees of severity.
Originally introduced as part of Apple's 2017 developer conference, new App Store guidelines allow the company to ban apps making use of templates or commercial app services.
The services had been established in China and several European countries by the third quarter of 2009.
Recognition and awards NelsonHall In 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2023, Unisys was named a leader in the NelsonHall Evaluation & Assessment Tool (NEAT) Vendor Evaluation for Advanced Digital Workplace Services.
Mobile TV Format is a colloquial and collective name for technology standards set out for broadcasting TV services to mobile devices, mostly mobile handsets for now.
"The ethnicity data helps us maintain a diverse and balanced community that reflects that of the city (in our case, the San Francisco Bay Area)," she says.
Content restrictions Microsoft did not distribute certain types of apps, including those with sexual content, via the Marketplace.
For instance, five-channel Virgin Mobile TV (VMTV) was launched in UK in October 2006, based on DMB technology with a £2.5m advertising campaign.
The company was recognized as a “Best Place to Work for Disability Inclusion.” The Disability Equality Index is a joint initiative of Disability:IN and the American Association of People with Disabilities.
university professor has estimated the value of Mitron energy buried on the uninhabited island the size of Jeju Island at $4 billion (KRW 4.51 trillion) per metric ton, with about 1 million metric tons of Mitron buried on the island.
Energy Rather than dealing with ammunition counts and hit points separately, SubSpace combines both of these elements into a single unit of measure: energy.
viewed news content on their devices throughout the day demonstrated how people use different mobile devices for different functions.
Because of its absence, the DSi is not backward compatible with GBA Game Paks or with accessories that require the GBA slot, such as the Nintendo DS Rumble Pak and the Guitar Hero: On Tour series guitar grip.
The company also won Bully Awards 2012, and was named a finalist of the Red Herring Top 100 Global and Red Herring Top 100 Europe lists.
In the People's Republic of China, using a transnational matchmaking agency involving a monetary transaction is illegal.
Multi-platform Citadel – originally written for the CP/M operating system, had many forks for different systems under different names.
The following table compares general and technical information for cross-platform instant messaging clients in active development, each of which have their own article that provide further information.
JRiver Media Center, a media player/organizer with a DLNA/UPnP server, controller, and renderer, including conversion.
Goal The Alliance's ultimate aim is to help stem, and ultimately reverse, the growth of non approved content around the world.
In addition to the DVD line, Male Spectrum has also launched two gay mobile sites compatible with the iPhone and other multimedia capable mobile devices, iMaleSpectrum.com and iMaleSpectrumPass.com.
In January 2014 i.TV launched tvtag, a second screen iPhone app that provides a feed of television moments that users can then share, doodle on and comment on in a variety of ways.
GLB files could also be directly exported from a variety of 3D editors, such as Blender, Vectary, Autodesk 3ds Max (using Verge3D exporter), Autodesk Maya, Modo, Microsoft Paint 3D, Substance Painter and others.
An example of retail would be the addition of social sharing with music, through the iTunes music store.
Formosa BBS (or NSYSU Formosa BBS) was one of the earliest telnet-based Bulletin board systems (BBS) to have Chinese language capability.
Recognition In 2013, Webcrumbz won Silver for the Best Mobisite at the Mobilio Awards gala, on 16 April with the First Aid Lesson app for MaiMultVerde, Romania.
There also is research into applying conclusion-making methods to the debates or their data, such as bipolar weighted argumentation frameworks – this could be a way to find out what the current conclusion of debates like "Computer Science is not actually a science" is.
On November 10, 2008, the company was removed from the S&P 500 index when the market capitalization of the company had fallen below the S&P 500 minimum of $4 billion.
BookArmy closed on 21 December 2010 citing "strong competition from similar sites and fewer advertising opportunities".
On February 26, 2018, CoolStar launched the initial release of Electra, giving access to Cydia from iOS versions 11.0-11.1.2.
History Early days Tanki Online's history began in the late 90s - a prototype called Tanks for Two was developed on floppy disks, only to die out as technology moved from floppy disks to CDs and the developers lost their source code.
Wireless Latin Entertainment (WILAEN) is a United States producer and distributor of Latin digital entertainment content formed in 2001.
Anyway, the relative store APK can often be installed in other compatible systems without rooting a device, as it happens for Huawei AppGallery and stock Android.
4.7 million apps are downloaded from Cafe Bazaar every day and 7.9 million apps are sold every month.
All Synology NAS are DLNA mediaserver and contain a webbased DLNA player which is also available as App for Android or iOS.
During 2002, in pre-android era, Celltick released its first product – software named as LiveScreen, for mobile operators.
The site was created as a digital public square project for Palm Beach County, Florida, and was funded by a Civic Initiatives Leadership Grant from the John S.
In 2013, Celltick released the Start interface for android based handsets, which was utilized by multiple mobile operators and device manufacturers reaching around 150 million installations.
BitTorrent BitTorrent Deluge KTorrent Miro Opera Tixati Transmission Tribler - Tribler uses a modified form of the BitTorrent protocol; it is anonymous and decentralized (and so does not require a tracker or indexing service to discover content).
Retailers give discounts, free shipping, and other offers in order to entice these shoppers to come back and buy.
Features may include limiting access to authenticated users, tracking of user actions, integration with single sign-on services, and a lack of the advertisements normally present on public sites.
With the StatusNet name change, the company developing both the software and OStatus as well as managing identi.ca rebranded from Control Yourself to StatusNet Inc.
Their videos often offer no definitive conclusions; instead, viewers are encouraged to interpret the presented material themselves.
Realizing that customers were actually responding to the issues that other people brought up, the group behind Valleyschwag decided to create the precursor to Get Satisfaction, first named Satisfaction Unlimited, to take advantage of the community's enthusiasm for helping each other.
Services Mobile Operator Solutions Payment Aggregation Virtual Mobile Content Provider Pre-approved Offers RGK Engine Key people Roman Taranov- Co-founder and CEO Evgeny Kayumov- Co-founder and Chief Marketing Officer == References ==
courts In April 2003, Los Angeles federal judge Stephen Wilson ruled in favor of Grokster and Streamcast (providers of Morpheus P2P software) against the Recording Industry Association of America and the Motion Picture Association of America and held that their file sharing software was not illegal.
As a result, users subscribed to Google Play Music in the United States, Australia, New Zealand and Mexico are now given access to YouTube Premium—which includes YouTube Music Premium.
On 20 June 2025 at HDC 2025 with HarmonyOS 6 Developer Beta debut, Huawei's consumer business group's chief operating officer Richard Yu announced that the HarmonyOS ecosystem, has over 30,000 native apps and meta-services.
History The term “digital public square” was originally coined by the Community Foundation for Palm Beach and Martin Counties during the development of yourPBC.org.
Such companies include Lexus, which partnered with the company to promote a campaign in which actress Rosario Dawson, during the lead up to the 87th Academy Awards, released five short videos on her social media accounts.
To make 3D Posts glTF 2.0 compliant, the support for textures, lighting, and physically based rendering techniques was implemented.
As people increasingly own mobile devices, cross-platform multimedia consumption has continued to shape the digital landscape, both in terms of the type of media content they consume and how they consume it.
Closure Nokia launched the Ovi Store on 26 May 2009, a single marketplace including for Java-developed games, and had already announced before that N-Gage games will be offered on the new store in addition to the existing N-Gage client app.
As of February 2025, Evernote has a free plan of 50 notes (of a maximum size of 200 MB) and 1 notebook, syncing to 1 device.
The term gained recognition in the industry, with sites such as Search Engine Watch and TechCrunch advocating the practice by February 2012.
BookArmy was a social networking website and book recommendation tool for readers, owned by HarperCollins.
Social psychologist David Buss has estimated that approximately 30 percent of the men on Tinder are married.
Origin The term BreadTube derives from Peter Kropotkin's The Conquest of Bread, a book explaining how to achieve anarchist communism and how an anarchist-communism society would function.
Saurik eventually released the update, and pushed the update to iOS devices running iOS 11 with Cydia at the time.
Paint Paint mode presents users with several different black-and-white images of Miss Spider and other characters in the book, and several different "brushes" and colors.
Selection process Each member receives one ticket to bring in a friend, allowing that friend to bypass the application process.
Other NIPs include ways to add a human-readable alias to an npub key using a well-known URI hosted on a web server, a method that is used by other protocols such ActivityPub and the AT Protocol.
Through the website, any internet user could access the source, verify the context of the phrase's use, and report it to the article's author or publisher.
Moleskine In August 2012, Moleskine partnered with Evernote to produce a digital-friendly notebook with specially designed pages and stickers for smartphone syncing.
The action is viewed from above, which presents challenges very different from those of a three-dimensional game.
The product was similar in look and feel to Kazaa, marketed by Sharman Networks, and Morpheus, which was distributed by StreamCast.
In March 2008, the top 5 overall sites held 7% less market share than they did one year ago while the top sites from the top five major niche dating categories made considerable gains.
Guide app Guide is a visual newsreader app for personal computers, mobile devices and Smart TV, which uses text-to-speech and avatar technologies to turn text-based online news, blogs and social media updates into video content.
Club Quarantine (Club Q) is a virtual gay club based in Toronto that began hosting URL (online) parties in early 2020 during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The WILAEN distribution network has a presence in eight countries: Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Mexico, Peru, and the U.S.
Prior to Cafe Bazaar facilitating the use of local debit cards for In-App purchases, users of foreign games like Clash of Clans, one of the most popular games in Iran, had to resort to using third-party websites were security was sometimes lacking and services were expensive.
The AlterGeo system can be accessed through API and SDK or deployed on the client side as an on-premises solution.
According to Steven Brintgregates of people who share common activities and/or beliefs and who are bound together principally by relations of affect, loyalty, common values, and/or personal concern – i.e., interest in the personalities and life events of one another".
For example, the New York Times mobile site registered 19 million views in May 2008, compared to 500,000 in January 2007.
Adoption The initial wave of adoption for ActivityPub (circa 2016–2018) came from software that was already using OStatus as their federation protocol, such as Mastodon, GNU social and Pleroma.
In 2009, a startup project called HeyStaks (www.heystaks.com) developed a web browser plugin "HayStaks".
A comparison of the development capabilities of each mobile platform can be found in the article on mobile app development.
Member commitments Members of the Alliance agree to, among other measures: · support and promote ‘hotlines’ or other mechanisms for customers to report child sexual abuse content discovered on the Internet or on mobile content services.
In June 2006 Nokia announced the Nokia Content Discoverer and signed deals that brought content from Electronic Arts, Warner Bros and others to the Content Discoverer.
In July 2010, i-Jet Media and mobile social network Spaces.ru established a game section, which managed to get more than 25,000 visitors during its first day online.
Messaging services with a multi-device model are able to eliminate feature disparity and provide identical functionality on both mobile and desktop clients.
BreadTube creators align with collectivist modes of governance, while opposing the alt-right and far-right.
At the Black Hat security conference in 2012, security firm Trustwave demonstrated their ability to upload an app that would circumvent the Bouncer blocker system.
It allows groups of people to create and edit documents and spreadsheets as a group, typically for business purposes.
Frisby additionally created a company that earned seven figures in real money by selling content in Second Life.
Web Compatibility Test for Mobile Browsers, often called the Mobile Acid test, despite not being a true Acid test, is a test page published and promoted by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) to expose web page rendering flaws in mobile web browsers and other applications that render HTML.
Among the earliest was an interactive map, showing videos recorded of the event that had embedded GPS location tags.
Grabyo is a browser-based live video production suite integrated with other social media platforms such as Facebook, YouTube, Instagram, Snapchat, Twitter, and Periscope.
This was the default way to install Android apps on Windows 11 (Note: Windows Subsystem for Android and the Amazon Appstore are no longer available in the Microsoft Store after March 5, 2025).
The organization is funded by private donations, advertisements on its website, and income from "charter memberships".
Performances and events April 2020 On April 3 2020, Club Q celebrated the birthday of Chester Lockhart who hosted the party on Zoom.
Users with standard accounts could store up to 50,000 songs from their personal libraries at no cost.
Apple responded to Amazon's attempted dismissal of the lawsuit by claiming that Amazon was tarnishing the trademark by using the name.
In addition to individual efforts, major media outlets like CNN, Reuters, and Yahoo are attempting to harness the power of citizen journalists.
Distributed Social Networking Protocol (DSNP) is an open-source protocol designed to enable decentralized social networking by allowing interoperability between platforms.
Almost all features of the Wadja website are also available on the mobile platform and are optimized for both the iPhone and the BlackBerry.
Mobile app platforms Native platforms These application marketplaces, or 'm' are native to the major mobile operating systems.
Benefits Decentralization allows users to retain ownership of their information and enables them to move personal data between platforms.
Google announced in October 2012 that they had signed deals with Warner Music Group that would bring "their full music catalog" to the service.
It was originally discussed to have been a star or a plus sign, and during development the feature was referred to as "awesome" instead of "like".
In Zambia, U-report was used to prevent HIV among adolescents and young people, with voluntary HIV testing in the country rising from 24% of the population to 40%.
Unlike their predecessor Napster, these file sharing programs allowed users to trade files directly between one another, without these transactions passing through a centralized server.
Unlike the larger and functional alternative Kialo, which is structured using only 'Pro' and 'Con' relations, argüman arguments are structured by three types of premises – 'because', 'but', and 'however'.
Desktop messaging clients on secondary devices do not function independently, as they are reliant on the mobile phone maintaining an active network connection for login authentication and syncing messages.
More recent examples are Human rights & social technology by Rainer Knopff and Tom Flanagan which addresses both human rights and government policies that ensure them.
General DOAJ.org – Directory of Open Access Journals Curlie.org (formerly DMOZ, also known as Open Directory Project – the largest directory of the Web.
"As people mostly post photos and videos, Stories is the way they’re going to want to do it," says Facebook Camera product manager Connor Hayes, noting Facebook's shift away from text status updates after ten years as its primary sharing option.
In 2017, a man was fined 4,000 Swiss francs by a Swiss regional court for liking defamatory messages on Facebook written by other people which criticized an activist.
ShadowTV, founded in 2001, provides all-digital continuous-access to live and archived television content via the web.
If computations offloaded to the client are continuously interrupted, some mechanism for detecting this must be in place such that the client may know the computation is tainted or needs to be completely re-run.
Pilosof created LIBOX to allow users to manage and share media across all devices and keep its original high quality.
Leadership Cisco Eos is developed by the Cisco Media Solutions Group, led by Cisco employee Dan Scheinman.
Operating on an application-agnostic model similar to SMTP for email, the DSNP promotes the development of interoperable applications.
At a certain point of time, the players will be informed of the location of a fugitive HUV that is near.
TapTap is a mobile game-sharing community and third-party game store that originated in China, operated by XD Inc.
It also refers to the digital distribution platform for software on iOS accessed through Cydia software.
In 2019 the platform added reaction options such as "celebrate", "love", "insightful" and "support".
By June, it had paid over $393,000 and hosted over 15,000 creations, a figure which had tripled over the previous nine months.
Rubies are earned by completing challenges and missions, catching Ruby Megagolds (drop boxes that contain 10 rubies), or by buying them in the shop from exclusive offers.
Currently improvements to the reliability, subtitles on some programmes and a dedicated CITV section have since launched.
The company plans to reintroduce GetJar with a modernized interface, expanded app offerings, and new features that aim to recapture its position as a go-to destination for downloadable apps and playable games.
History The product was created as a web-based application in 2005 for accessing multiple chat platforms, including Facebook Messenger, Google Talk, Yahoo!
The firehose is available to all network agents, and can be consumed by any service within the network.
Garriott's famed 1997 definition referred to the fundamental architecture shift required to support tens of thousands of concurrent players, which required shifting from individual servers to data centers on multiple continents.
However, Bradford said people wanted to know about a person's race, and the ethnicity data is meant to help the site be more inclusive by being diverse.
Learning Analytics and Intelligent Agents provide early intervention to help learners and a set of data that can be used to make improvements based upon analysis.
Among sites in this category are: Open source MediaGoblin (software) PeerTube Plumi (software to create video-sharing sites) Web-based video editing Web-based video-editing sites generally offer a user-generated video sharing website in addition to some form of editing application.
It provides a framework for open digital interactions that enables users to maintain a consistent social identity across multiple applications.
Drastic reduction of free edition In June 2016, Evernote introduced a new limitation to just 2 devices on the free plan (previously unlimited) and increased the price of their paid plans.
LiveScreen was used by multiple mobile operators worldwide including BSNL, Airtel, Tele2, Vodafone, and Taiwan Mobile, Globe Telcom Philippines.
In May 2011 i.TV and AOL together re-launched AOL's online destination for TV viewers, AOL TV, based on i.TV's technology platform.
They differ from the main public arenas, in the sense that they may have their own settings, map, graphics, and bots (if required – or modules in ASSS zones).
A digital omnivore is a person who uses multiple modalities (devices) to access the Internet and other media content in their daily life.
At this time, Braze was delivering over 100 billion messages each month and had raised over $175 million in funding.
F-Droid is a free and open source app store and software repository for Android, serving a similar function to the Google Play Store.
As a result of its ability to quickly and discreetly create accounts and publish posts to relays, Nostr can propagate spam much more easily if left unchecked.
In some situations, text that appears in captured images can be recognized using optical character recognition (OCR) and annotated.
DJ D-Nice's Club Quarantine played largely hip-hop and rap music, while the Canadian Club Q plays a wide variety of music genres including hyperpop.
1067, 2067, 3067) Yamaha RX-Vx73 series, beginning with RV-V473 Yamaha RX-Vx75 series, beginning with RV-V475 Yamaha Aventage Series (RX-A1000/A2000/A3000) Ziova ClearStream Series (i.e.
At any time, the player can slide/drift the car that is controlled, which allows taking corners as quickly as possible.
Features Shorts in Motion: The Art of Seduction integrates quizzes, advice columns and guides as well as downloads of all 10 Micro Movies which can be played back on mobile phones.
Users can store their bookmarks on a private or public SiteBar server, access them online, and share them with multiple user groups.
On March 3, 2026, Salesforce announced that Quip would be retired and that subscriptions would not be renewable after March 1, 2027.
Windows 11 In Windows 11, Microsoft Store received an updated user interface, and a new pop-up designed to handle installation links from websites.
The company started exporting them to European social networks: Estonia, Finland, Germany, and Poland.
In 2008, the Republican National Convention and Democratic National Convention named ShadowTV as their official monitoring service.
The service was launched and introduced by former Instagram CEO Kevin Systrom in a live event in San Francisco on June 20, 2018, featuring creators such as Lele Pons.
It allows users to create collaborative "semantic maps" of arguments in well structured tree formats and share them with an audience and potential participants.
See also List of social bookmarking websites Comparison of reference management software List of social software == References ==
The League scans an applicant's Facebook and LinkedIn profiles to analyze alma maters, degrees, professions, industries, social influence, neighborhood and age.
In Japan, the game was renamed to Arad Senki while in the west it was titled Dungeon Fighter Online.
The Club Q Zoom event on March 17, 2020 featured a spontaneous live stick-and-poke session where a virtual club-goer got a tattoo reading "Club Q".
The website, which received an initial round of financing of $1.3 million, received financing from investors that include First Round Capital, O'Reilly Alphatech Ventures, and SoftTechVC.
On September 1, 2025, Workplace website entered read-only mode and the Workplace mobile app and the Workchat desktop app stopped working.
He foresaw "the biggest problem" being that "there will suddenly be the assumption that players who cut their teeth on the 2014 rules will need to understand the 2024 rules revision in order to get the most use out of the D&D Beyond platform at the table".
Third-party platforms Third-party platforms are software distribution platforms which are used as alternatives to operating system native distribution platforms.
YouTube Music Premium and YouTube Premium subscribers can switch to an audio-only mode that can play in the background while the application is not in use.
History BlueLine Grid was co-founded by Bill Bratton, Jack Weiss, and David Riker as Bratton Technologies.
Hampton, Wellman (1999) claims, that “increased connectivity and involvement not only can expose people to more contact and more information, it can reduce commitment to community”, because “immersiveness can turn people away from community”.
In Hawaii in 2019, Puna Precious Plastic, with more than 1,000 members as a part of the Precious Plastic worldwide movement, collected about 1,000 pounds, which it planned to sort, shred and melt into plastic bricks and lumber for construction.
The Unit conducts a number of activities that promote engagement with Science and Technology in Belize, including through the ICT roadshow.
Ministers Subordinate organizations Turkmengaz Türkmennebit (Turkmenoil) Türkmenhimiýa Türkmengeologiýa Türkmennebitgazgurluşyk Turkmenbashy Oil Refinery == References ==
The Minister in charge of the MNRE (Ministry of New and Renewable energy) is the patron while the Secretary of MNRE is the ex-officio president of the association.
We can't continue to use oil and gas for 75 percent of our consumption when they make up seven percent of our domestic reserves.
Other contributions include "Defeating the Fossil Fuel Industry" in Not Too Late: Changing the Climate Story from Despair to Possibility (2023), and "Spill" in Fueling Culture: Energy, History, Politics (2017).
Clean Tech Law contemplates a diverse set of legal and policy issues related to the development and commercialization of clean technology.
It took charge of coal production, allocation of supplies of fuels, control of energy prices and petrol rationing during World War II.
The report described how the United Kingdom planned to achieve its legally binding target of 15 per cent share of energy from renewable sources by 2020.
The Executive Bureau assists the Council of Ministers by meet at least three times a year to review the budget, approve staff regulations, and develops an agenda for the Council of Ministers depending on their analyses of the organizations activities.
The first streamlined car was the Tropfenwagen introduced in 1921, named after its teardrop shape (the literal translation from German is "drop car").
While RECS guaranteed the source of the energy and prevented double-counting, it was not a label: these also guarantee other matters relating to the supplied electricity, such as the originating technology, the age of the plant, and the source of the energy.
NISOC is producing about 83% percent of all crude oil and 16% percent of natural gas produced in Iran.
Fears of an uprising led the Bolivian government to take measures essentially forcing the population to vote (announcing fines and other penalties for those who refused or boycotted) and warned that protesters against the referendum would be imprisoned.
Students at colleges where green buildings are being used will benefit by increasing their potential to gain knowledge.
Growth in open energy modelling Just two active open energy modelling projects were cited in a 2011 paper: OSeMOSYS and TEMOA.
Economic and energy modelling can be used by governmental or inter-governmental bodies as an advisory and analysis tool.
With the breakup of the USSR, Russia has lost access to the rich Caspian Basin off-shore and on-shore oil fields in the Central Asian states and Azerbaijan.
RECS International was founded in Brussels in 2002 and is a non-profit-making European association of market players trading in renewable energy certificates.
The first three days of the disruption cost the Zimbabwe's economy an estimated $17 million as the government extended its disruption to a full shutdown to prevent the use of VPN circumvention tools by demonstrators.
In fact, the process contributed to the growth of the Eurodollar market as a less-regulated rival to U.S.
At that time, Turntide also announced investment from Future Shape, the fund led by Nest founder Tony Fadell.
Since 1992 every year in March experts and decision makers from all over the world flock to Upper Austria to attend the events - in general the conference attracts between 900 and 1,000 participants from 55-60 countries.
Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) and the European Green Deal, which incentivize renewable energy adoption while reducing fossil fuel dependence.
It is built by the Department of Energy in the United States and maintained by the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.
In parallel to the World Sustainable Energy Days, the Energiesparmesse, an exhibition and trade show dedicated to renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, is held.
Energy sources Technical solutions under consideration include the further development of domestically grown biofuels, solar cells, fuel cells, wind farms, wave energy, a major increase in district heating schemes and greater use of geothermal heat pumps.
Under NMSA, the Cabinet Committee on Economic affairs released the restructured "National Bamboo Mission" in 2018 to last till the end of 14th Five Year Plan period.
This switch from kerosene use would lead to reduction in global carbon emissions leading to the firm earning carbon credits.
It also took over responsibility for electricity from the Ministry of War Transport and its predecessor the Ministry of Transport.
The main target of the One Less Nuclear Power Plant was to cut energy consumption by 2 million TOE, which is equivalent to the capacity of one nuclear power plant, mainly by directly engaging citizens in energy-saving and renewable energy generation.
This effort resulted in more powerful simulation engines released in the early 1970s, among those were BLAST, DOE-2, ESP-r, HVACSIM+ and TRNSYS.
A narrower pipe in the roof that fits snugly into a larger segment of the building can also be used.
It shares that responsibility with the Ministry of Business Affairs (responsible for banking and trade) and the Ministry of Fisheries (fishing making up some 40% of Iceland's exports).
Destruction of unsold goods: The EU's Ecodesign for Sustainable Products Regulation (ESPR) includes a ban on the destruction of unsold textiles and footwear, effectively prohibiting the common fashion industry practice of burning or landfilling excess synthetic inventory.
Due to improvements in recent years, Georgia has become a major exporter of electricity in the region, exporting 1.3 billion KWh in 2010.
Due to the large variety of hemp, the porosity differs from one type to another, therefore its thermal insulating abilities vary too.
2019: "Accelerating Energy Transformation" The 12th edition of Singapore International Energy Week (SIEW) took place from 29 October to 1 November 2019 at the Sands Expo and Convention Centre, Marina Bay Sands Singapore.
Desert climates have the highest radiative cooling potential due to low year-round humidity and cloud cover, while tropical climates have less potential due to higher humidity and cloud cover.
The Expo featured five pavilions, showcasing clean energy solutions from Australia, Brazil, Europe, Japan and Singapore.
United States leadership is widely seen as critical in international emissions reduction efforts, and particularly in carbon pricing, as this would encourage other countries to follow suit with similar legislation.
It is also accredited to a range of regional bodies that include OSPAR, the Helsinki Commission and the Barcelona Convention, and provides a conduit for advocacy and debate between the upstream industry and the European Union (EU).
The current interim mines and energy minister is president Frans Kapofi, after Natangwe Ithete was dismissed on 26 October 2026.
In Mexico, the Secretariat of Energy (Spanish: Secretaría de Energia) is the government department in charge of production and regulation of energy.
In 1939 the Petroleum Board assumed responsibility for the coordination of the petroleum 'pool' for oil supplies (except oil for the Royal Navy).
It organizes and supervises the material and technical supply of enterprises, organizations, and installations.
Responsibilities The ministry is responsible for designing and implementing government policy in the areas falling within its competence.
In contrast with standby mode, hibernation mode saves the computer's state on the hard disk, which requires no power to maintain, whereas standby mode saves the computer's state in RAM, which requires a small amount of power to maintain.
Monitoring Monitoring information of energy use, in order to establish a basis for energy management and explain deviations from an established pattern.
From 15 February 2022 the "Clean Export Guarantee (CEG) Tariff" was introduced as a part of the government's Micro-generation Support Scheme (MSS).
Turntide won a 2020 Gold Edison Award and 2020 Product of the Year from Environmental and Energy Leader.
Pickering was reportedly high on the list, but he withdrew himself from consideration in early 2008.
In 2005, the effort was renamed JODI, joined by the International Energy Forum (IEF), and covered more than 90% of the global oil market.
Municipal and electric cooperative utilities can elect to operate their own Commitment to Community programs.
Another factor improving airflow is the gap between the tractor and trailer is minimized to lessen the amount of turbulence created by air flowing into the gap.
Sectoral work is led by different task groups that design and implement technical work programmes on a range of energy efficiency topics, with the input and support of international organisations, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and private sector partners.
Development In 2005, Fidel Castro announced that Cuba would undertake an Energy Revolution, through which it would decentralize physical energy infrastructure and decarbonize its economy by over one-third.
In 2003, CEER was formally established as a non-profit organization under Belgian law, with its own Brussels-based Secretariat.
The plan provides a detailed road map of how the member state expects to reach its legally binding 2020 target for the share of renewable energy in their total energy consumption, as required by article 4 of the Renewable Energy Directive 2009/28/EC.
As of April 2014, the CVRP was facing an estimated US$30 million funding shortfall for the 2013-14 fiscal year, and uncertainty about additional funding for the 2014-15 fiscal year.
The Group of Five, precursors to the G8, first met in 1975 to coordinate economic and energy policies in the wake of the 1973 Arab oil embargo, a rise in inflation and a global economic slowdown.
The study analyses each national action plan and estimates whether the projected savings are likely to materialise and whether these will be sufficient to meet the article 7 target.
Energy Efficiency: Design includes a 40 KW rooftop photovoltaic system, natural ventilation linked with a window interlock system for heating, daylighting controls, energy-efficient lighting, high efficiency boiler, and chiller integrated into a virtual chilled water loop.
Its key objective is to promote the independence of national regulators and support the establishment of a robust East African energy union.
This construction technique saves weight without compromising the structural integrity of the vehicle.
Intel DPST technology aims to adaptively reduce backlight brightness while maintaining satisfactory visual performance.
To maximize the benefits, the program targets land that has both a high chance of restoration success and a history of low crop yields or crop failure.
While on one hand the officers are unwilling to give out details, on the other hand the budget heads and schemes are seeing constant changes which makes tracking very difficult.
It is responsible for managing the energy sector in Thailand, including granting energy operating licenses and issuing energy pricing regulations.
This is compared to 37% in both the United States and China when asked to list their priorities on energy.
For example, the government proposed to make it mandatory for certain appliances in India to have ratings by the BEE from January 2010 onwards.
The constraints are occasioned by poor infrastructure and robust policies to attract investment in the sector.
One of the agencies with which the ministry works is Petromin, the general petroleum and mineral organization.
Background It was launched in 2011, with Obama Administration's Startup America Initiative, a White House campaign to inspire and promote entrepreneurship.
In 2019, the Minister inaugurated the launching ceremony of the Saudi scientific vessel, called “Najil” in Jubail port, Eastern Province.
History The concept of a systematic producer-consumer dialogue emerged in the 1970s as a part of the general reorganisation in the global political and economic order with energy markets transforming the structure within individual countries as well as power balances and relations between countries.
In a FIP, renewable energy producers sell to the electricity market and receive a payment (premium) in addition to the market price.
In 2016 Water Development was transferred to the new Ministry of Water Development, Sanitation and Environmental Protection.
Major initiatives and legislation China China has pledged to become carbon neutral by 2060, which would need a just transition for over 3 million workers in the coal-mining and power industry.
The document provides a comprehensive account of the data issues faced by researchers engaged in open energy system modelling and energy market analysis and quoted extensively from a German legal opinion.
He has delivered lectures to audiences at the Pentagon, the United Nations, the Smithsonian, the Commonwealth Club of San Francisco, and several World Affairs Councils, as well as dozens of universities and colleges around the United States.
Sharing the stage for the first time were the CEOs of Royal Dutch Shell and Petrobras, Peter Voser and José Gabrielli respectively, as they discuss the future of the global energy industry.
The initial period 2002–2004 saw delays in project implementation; consequently, the project was essentially restarted with a new project team in 2005 and was operational until the end of 2009.
History Its establishment was agreed at the first South American Energy Summit, which took place on April 16–17 2007 on Isla Margarita in the Venezuelan state of Nueva Esparta.
Government reserves in 2016 as of 2016, the Chinese SPR was estimated to hold approximately 400 million barrels in total, out of a capacity of around 500 million barrels.
The standards stipulated in the Code, which was published in February 2012 are more stringent than those in the last version promulgated in 2007, which have been implemented on a voluntary basis.
Climate change threatens the basic elements of life for people around the world – access to water, food production, health, use of land and the environment.
This follow-up must be in addition to, and not instead of, the follow-up which the industry carries out for its own part.
The agreement would have established the International Petroleum Commission for the purposes of balancing discordant supply and demand, managing surplus, and bringing order and stability to a market laden with oversupply, similar to the Texas Railroad Commission in the United States.
See also Global strategic petroleum reserves List of uranium mines Nuclear power Strategic Petroleum Reserve Uranium reserves == References ==
5057 External Power Supplies - the Department of Energy's Building Technologies Office's page on Appliance standards This article incorporates public domain material from websites or documents of the United States government.
This means that supply voltage can theoretically be anywhere between 216 V and 253 V depending on local conditions.
Almost every utility-scale solar facility has what is known as a power purchase agreement with the utility.
In 2012 the Ministry of Water and Energy was merged with the Ministry of Mines to form the Ministry of Mines, Energy and Water Development.
More conservative Islamic cultural practices (separation of the sexes, wearing of the hijab or a more complete hijab) brought back (to other Muslim states, such as Egypt, Pakistan, Bangladesh, etc.) from Gulf oil states by migrant workers.
Coordination among the institutions, and enterprises of the ministry, and work to resolve all differences.
Another motive for the bill was to legally and financially bind the operator and the government to provide relief to the affected population in the case of a nuclear accident.
For this reason, the Hypermiling Safety Foundation was established in August 2008 to promote a safety and education program that promotes legal fuel-saving techniques.
Clause 17 This clause deals with the legal binding of the culpable groups in case of a nuclear accident.
The deployment of renewable technologies usually increases the diversity of electricity sources and, through local generation, contributes to the flexibility of the system and its resistance to central shocks.
See also Chiefs of Clan Cameron Rutherford House, home of the first Premier of Alberta, Alexander Cameron Rutherford, from 1911 to 1941, which was originally called Achnacarry in honour of his family roots.
Philippines: Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) is an independent, quasi-judicial regulatory body established to regulate electric power service in the Philippines.
The maker disputed claims that the device has no effect, and proposed changes to the Consumer Reports testing procedure, which when implemented made no difference to the results.
2024 - Best Educational Documentary Award at the International Uranium Film Festival in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
In the middle east, oil fields have become main targets for sabotage due to how heavily countries rely on oil.
A second Ministerial Conference following up the Energy Initiative was held in Astana, Kazakhstan on 30 November 2006.
The Intel DPST subsystem analyzes the image to be displayed and it uses a set of algorithms to change the chroma value of pixels while reducing the brightness of backlight simultaneously such that there is minimum perceived visual degradation.
The primary objective of a state nodal agency under this ministry is to develop, coordinate, finance and promote research projects in the new and renewable energy field.
is incompatible with the strategy of engagement with industry to solve problems that is at the heart of today's plan." The following day, Fossil Free MIT began a sit-in outside the office of the President to protest the shortcomings of the plan, including the rejection of divestment.
Another remarked that the Saudis can produce oil at as low a price as $3 per barrel, whereas Russia needs $30 per barrel to cover production costs.
It was signed by the 10 ASEAN members (Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, Burma and Cambodia), as well as China, Japan, New Zealand, India, South Korea and Australia.
The department was established in January 1974, when the responsibility for energy production was transferred away from the Department of Trade and Industry in the wake of the 1973 oil crisis and with the importance of North Sea oil increasing.
History Since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution, fossil fuels have been used as sources of energy.
History The ministerial portfolio responsible for energy, mining and the environment has undergone several reorganizations following successive government reshuffles.
The Swiss road tax is a yearly recurring fixed amount calculated based on the specifications of the tax payers car.
Based on years of close archival work, in both Iran and the United States, the book was originally more than 1,300 pages in its first draft but had to be cut by more than half to suit commercial publishing imperatives.
At a minimum, the Commission should investigate the types of serious allegations presented here by the complainant and render a decision based on the substantive merits.
This in turn increased total coal consumption, even as the amount of coal required for any particular application fell.
However, if the power supply was interrupted, such as when removing batteries without an AC power connection, the Mac would wake from Safe Sleep instead, restoring memory contents from the hard drive.
On October 1, 1990, at the United Nations General Assembly, Venezuelan President Carlos Andrés Pérez called for an urgent meeting of producers and consumers under the auspices of the United Nations to help the world face the growing uncertainties and politics of the oil market.
Following the privatisation of the energy industries in the United Kingdom, which had begun some ten years earlier, the department was abolished in 1992.
History The predecessor of the Ministry of Climate and Energy, the Ministry of Energy (Danish: Energiministeriet), was created in 1979, from the energy department of the Ministry of Trade.
The team remains advised by Richard Whelove, alongside Michael Devaney of the Electrical Engineering Department.
In 1940, the department was divided with Geoffrey Lloyd and Sir Alfred Faulkner becoming respectively Secretary and Permanent Under-Secretary for Petroleum and David Grenfell and Sir Alfred Hurst respectively Secretary and Permanent Under-Secretary for Mines.
Necessity of the Nuclear Liability Act India had an ambitious goal to increase 5-fold the amount of electricity produced from nuclear power plants to 20,000 MWe by 2020.
Data center infrastructure efficiency (DCIE), is a performance improvement metric used to calculate the energy efficiency of a data center.
Structural change of oil-producing countries The Third World went through dramatic structural change in the decades after oil was first discovered.
BEA was granted full autonomy by the Royal Government of Bhutan to regulate the electricity supply industry of Bhutan.
Green award for emissions-reducing technology, Sustainable Shipping News, October 28, 2008 World Fishing
A part of the team works in Budapest (HU), Offenburg (DE), Freiburg im Breisgau (DE) and Paris (FR).
Revenue volatility Prices for some natural resources are subject to wide fluctuation; for example, crude oil prices rose from around $3 per barrel to $12/bbl in 1974 following the 1973 oil crisis and fell from $27/bbl to below $10/bbl during the 1986 glut.
Legislation The Energy Act 2010 is subdivided into four parts: carbon capture storage and regulation, schemes for reducing fuel poverty, regulations of gas and electricity markets, and final provisions.
Solar Cooling for the Sunbelt Regions (Task 65), New Generation Solar Cooling and Heating Systems (PV or Solar Thermally Driven Systems (Task 53), Quality Assurance and Support Measures for Solar Cooling (Task 48), Solar Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration (Task 38) solar buildings/architecture, e.g.
The Ministry of Energy of the Kingdom of Thailand (Abrv: MoE; Thai: กระทรวงพลังงาน, RTGS: Krasuang Phalangngan) is a cabinet ministry in the Government of Thailand.
The website offered an online glossary covering about 4,000 terms from the clean energy and climate sector, with definitions from Open Data sources.
Employment The renewable energy transition can create jobs through the construction of new power plants and the manufacturing of the equipment that they need, as was seen in the case of Germany and the wind power industry.
FERC, which involved a petition for review of FERC Order 490 to permit Williams Natural Gas Company to unconditionally abandon its certified obligation to purchase gas from Transwestern.
Though unrefined petroleum has been used for various purposes since ancient times, it was during the 19th century that refinement techniques were developed and gasoline engines were created.
This efficiency translates into substantial cuts in CO₂ emissions, making CHP a powerful tool in the transition to a low-carbon energy system.
The Bureau of Energy Efficiency is an agency of the Government of India, under the Ministry of Power, created in March 2002 under the provisions of the nation's 2001 Energy Conservation Act.
Of these, biomass (non-bagasse) Cogeneration consisted of 651.91 MW, Bio mass Gasifier was 186.88 MW Waste to energy was 163.35 MW, SPV Systems (of less than 1 Kilowatt (kW)) capacity was 405.54 1 MW, and the rest from micro-Hydro and Wind power.
It takes measures to increase labor productivity, to improve the quality of production, and to reduce the cost of production and construction.
History It was established on April 23, 1993 under the name of the Ministry of Oil and Gas of Turkmenistan.
While Miliband received questions over grid access, gas storage, and the Government's support of the European "super-grid," the Bill was passed to the committee stage.
In government contracting, a Contract Adjustment Board is a department board at the Secretariat level in the U.S.
History On December 7, 1946, the Secretaría de Bienes Nacionales e Inspección Administrativa (Secretariat of National Assets and Administrative Inspection) was created with Alfonso Caso Andrade serving as secretary.
The EREA works closely with the EAC, African Union Eastern Africa Power Pool (EAPP)-Independent Regulatory Board (IRB), National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners and The Regional Association of Energy Regulators for Eastern and Southern Africa (RAERESA).
Organisation MMERE consists of the following divisions: Technical Divisions: Mines Geological Survey Petroleum Energy Water Resources Management Administrative Divisions: Executive Corporate Services == References ==
Lighting When lighting loads are in use for a high proportion of the time, energy savings on lighting equipment are extremely valuable.
Other benefits generally include increased resource efficiency, improved production budgeting and reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions.
Conference chair is Chuck Kutscher, Ph.D., a principal engineer at the National Renewable Energy Lab.
Until the solar heating system began working, ATCO Gas (an Alberta-based natural gas distribution company) fixed heating costs at $60 per month for the homeowners at the Drake Landing Solar Community.
The Gulf War revealed the importance of a concerted and coordinated global response to an adverse supply shock.
The result is a vehicle with about a 50 km (30 miles) range, which, when designed with appropriate weight distribution (40/60 front to rear), does not require power steering, offers exceptional acceleration in the lower end of its operating range, and is freeway capable and legal.
electric grid would have to be nationalized, and more high voltage transmission lines would have to be built.
The Gulf Oil Company showed an interest but was constrained by the Red Line Agreement which prevented the company from drilling on Bahrain without the consent of their partners in the Iraq Petroleum Company (IPC).
Devon and Cornwall Police also released a statement saying that protests on the M5 were taken in a "safe and legal manner".
Reserve structure Government reserves in 2025 As of March 2025, the government is estimated to have 401 million barrels stored in above-ground facilities and 668 million barrels in above-ground commercial storage.
The speech is remembered for his comparison of the 1970s energy crisis with the "moral equivalent of war." Carter gave ten principles for the plan but did not list specific actions.
On 15 January, internet monitoring group NetBlocks reported the blocking of over a dozen social media and messaging platforms in Zimbabwe including WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram followed by total internet blackouts.
Even more controversially, several oil exporters have been major financial supporters of armed groups challenging the governments of other countries.
Consumption per capita The final consumption divided by the number of inhabitants provides a country's consumption per capita.
Background Voltage optimisation is an electrical energy saving technique which is mainly installed in series with the mains electricity supply to provide a reduced supply voltage for the site's equipment.
Evaluation and econometric methods are the two approaches generally employed in estimating the size of this effect.
In 2017 the Free Software Foundation Europe (FSFE) issued a position paper calling for free software and open standards to be central to European science funding, including the flagship EU program Horizon 2020.
The membership of the collegium was approved by the Council of Ministers USSR, upon recommendation of the Minister of the Petroleum Industry.
This is because of the high level of variance in the fuel consumption of a vehicle under normal driving conditions.
40) United States The Natural Gas Act of 1938 See also List of short titles Energy Law Electric or Electricity Act Petroleum Act
Nature and Environment Prize 2008 goes to Iceland, norden.org, October 10, 2008 Wilson-Roberts, Guy.
macOS On Macs, a feature known as Safe Sleep saves the contents of volatile memory to the system hard disk each time the Mac enters Sleep mode.
This model is now the principal tool used to generate detailed sector-by-sector and region-by-region long-term scenarios for the World Energy Outlook and other IEA publications.
Manufacturers of specified electronic devices are obligated to attach a CEL label to their goods to inform China-based consumers of the product's energy efficiency.
In February 2008, responding to questions on the issue at a briefing before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice reaffirmed that the State Department was looking to appoint a special energy coordinator for the Central Asian and Caspian region.
In 2023, the city of Leuven (BE) took over the Presidency of the association, succeeding Heidelberg (DE), which held the presidency from 2017 to 2023.
UK - Norway), electricity from hydropower is likely to be insufficient and development of a hydrogen economy would likely be needed: this is being trialled in the UK and 8 TWh of inter-seasonal hydrogen energy storage has been proposed.
Today, it is the industry’s largest database of safety performance, covering participating member company employees and their contractors onshore and offshore, worldwide.
Organization Objectives CEER seeks to facilitate the creation of a single, competitive, efficient and sustainable market for gas and electricity in Europe.
Devolution Some responsibilities extend to England alone due to devolution, while others are reserved or excepted matters that therefore apply to the other countries of the United Kingdom as well.
For example, a more efficient steam engine allowed the cheaper transport of goods and people that contributed to the Industrial Revolution.
The Ministry of Mines, Energy and Rural Electrification (MMERE) is one of the ministries of the Solomon Islands Government.
The 2007 amendments directed the Colorado Public Utility Commission (PUC) to revise or clarify its existing RPS rules on or before October 1, 2007.
The factory closings were made more palatable by a labor shortage in much of China making it easier for workers to find other jobs.
Overseeing the production, supply distribution, marketing and pricing of petroleum including natural gas and petroleum products.
A car rated at 32 mpg‑US (7.4 L/100 km; 38 mpg‑imp) was returning 75 mpg‑US (3.1 L/100 km; 90 mpg‑imp) with the 60 hp engine replaced by a 16 hp engine.
These projections are covered by a caveat on economic and physical influences beyond the control of the government.
Table of renewable energy and targets Overview European countries Other countries See also REN21 Collaboration on Energy and Environmental Markets Greenhouse Mafia Greenhouse Solutions with Sustainable Energy List of renewable energy topics by country and territory == References ==
The Fuel Doctor FD-47, for example, plugs into the vehicle's cigarette lighter and displays several LEDs.
Cuba restructured it social worker program to include specialized work fronts for the Energy Revolution.
Borehole thermal energy system The borehole thermal energy system (BTES) is located underground to store large quantities of heat collected in the summer to be used in the winter.
The new standard was supported by Natural Resources Canada (NRCan) and the Canadian Home Builders' Association (CHBA).
See also Climate change litigation Climate justice Just transition Fossil fuel divestment List of environmental lawsuits Climate change in the United States Steve Held, father of lead plaintiff Rikki Held Notes References External links "The Constitution of the State of Montana" (PDF).
The government stated that government property and property owned by the ruling ZANU-PF party was damaged in the attacks and blamed MDC-T supporters.
This has abandoned the code's schematic which provided a framework of achievement levels and to which low-energy designers could aspire to meet or surpass.
It hosts events centred on sustainable energy production and use, which covers energy efficiency and renewable energy sources for buildings, industry and transport.
China is currently the world's largest emitter of greenhouse gases, and coal in China is a major cause of global warming.
That marks the first time in the nation that a municipal government has imposed an energy tax directly upon its residents to combat global warming.
For example, a reserve such as the Ogallala Aquifer can be mined at a rate that far exceeds replenishment.
Shifting to renewable energy "can help us to meet the dual goals of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, thereby limiting future extreme weather and climate impacts, and ensuring reliable, timely, and cost-efficient delivery of energy".
A more effective DIY radiator reflector is a thin insulating layer (against conduction) of a lightweight insulator such as expanded polystyrene foam veneer or 3mm polyethylene foam, as used for laminate flooring underlay.
The house did not require a furnace, despite prairie winter temperatures as low as −24 °C (−11 °F) at night.
To give purchasers reliable information, he introduced the Automobile Information Disclosure Act of 1958.
New Scientist's Fred Pearce panned the book, calling it "mendacious and frequently anti-scientific", remarking that it "combines hysterical opposition to all things nuclear with an equally deranged climate-change denialism".
The Ministry of Energy of Georgia (Georgian: საქართველოს ენერგეტიკის სამინისტრო, sakartvelos energetikis saministro) was a governmental agency within the Cabinet of Georgia in charge of regulating the activities in the energy sector of Georgia from 1991 to 2017.
Getting "BTU'd" became Beltway slang at the time for those who lost reelection by voting for the controversial proposal.
Before drafting this treaty, the Council coordinated the creation of an energy balance and a 15-point strategy.
Procedural history The EPS Service Parts Act of 2014 is a bill that was introduced into the United States House of Representatives on July 10, 2014, by Rep.
In 2006, some electronics, such as microwaves, CRTs, and VHS players, used more standby power than appliances manufactured in the previous five years.
It is typically advised to use Type S mortar, grout with a minimum strength of 2,000 psi (14 MPa), and a concrete slab with a minimum strength of 2,500 psi (17 MPa) and 4 inches (100 mm) thickness.
Microsoft also recommends that the size be increased using the powercfg.exe tool in some rare workloads where the memory footprint exceeds that amount.
See also Energy accounting Energy conservation measure Energy management Energy management software, software to monitor and optimize energy consumption in buildings or communities == References ==
It was created on January 27, 1987, in Lagos, Nigeria, to serve as a platform for cooperation and harmonization of efforts, collaboration, sharing of knowledge and skills among African oil producing countries.
Most of the new standards are comparable to those adopted in the US, Europe and the Asia-Pacific region, while some standards are not specified in overseas jurisdictions.
(In the original official report, exhausted votes were not recorded as a separate total but instead resided with candidate that last had the votes.
Together with a group of colleagues, the Lovinses fostered efficient resource use and policy development that they believed would promote global security.
100% clean electricity Other electricity generating sources are considered clean, though not necessarily renewable, as they also do not emit carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases and air pollutants.
Department of Energy Solar Decathlon Solar Decathlon Europe 2019 Solar Decathlon Europe 2014 Solar Decathlon Latin America and Caribbean Solar Decathlon Middle East Solar Decathlon China
45 6/30/2001 so as to become its terms of reference are the following: Supervision of the institutions and enterprises of the ministry.
In June 2018, the Narendra Modi administration approved the construction of a new storage facility in Chandikhole and doubling the capacity at Padur.
China In southern China (south of the Qinling–Huaihe Line), there are nearly no district heating systems.
On August 14, 2023, Lewis and Clark County District Court Judge Kathy Seeley ruled in favor of the plaintiffs that the limitations on considering environmental factors when deciding oil and gas permits violated the right to a safe environment recited in Montana’s constitution.
History The Centre of Excellence was established in 2022 by the Energy Regulators Association of East Africa (EREA) to provide sustainable capacity building.
One commentator states, "an oil embargo is not a common commercial practice; it is a tool of political blackmail, meant to force those at whom it is aimed, into some action they would otherwise not be willing to take".
If the unit is not laid to falls, and the condensate not allowed to drain properly, this will increase fan energy consumption and reduce the seasonal efficiency of the device.
In order to allay the suspicions of British officials, Holmes claimed that he was looking for a rare butterfly, the Black Admiral of Qatif, although this deception appears not to have been effective.
In February 2025, the ministry was merged into the Ministry of Tourism and formed the Ministry of Tourism and Environment.
For these products tourmaline can be used to combat the harmonic distortion so they produce less heat and therefore, less energy loss.
By recovering some of the energy usually lost as waste heat, the recuperator can make a heat engine or gas turbine significantly more efficient.
Do you agree with President Carlos Mesa's policy of using gas as a strategic recourse to achieve a sovereign and viable route of access to the Pacific Ocean?
In July 2007 California's 2005 appliance standards came into effect, limiting external power supply standby power to 0.5 watts.
Families most likely to be energy insecure are families 200% under the poverty line, have young children, or have no college degree.
The economic coalition wanted unassisted market competition to prevail and preferred large-scale facilities.
This graph is the image of the business’ average energy performance, and conveys a lot of information: The y-intercept gives the minimal consumption in the absence of the variable (no production, zero degree-day...).
While polyurethane has outstanding mechanical and thermal properties, the high toxicity of the diisocyanates required for its manufacturing has caused a restriction on their use.
See also Intellectual property Clean technology Sustainability Patent law Renewable energy Climate change Renewable energy law Synthetic genomics Natural resource References External links Cleantechlaw.org CleanTech Docs
Given past oil discovery and production data, a Hubbert curve that attempts to approximate past discovery data may be constructed and used to provide estimates for future production.
According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), buildings is the sector which presents the most cost effective opportunities for GHG reductions.
Furthermore, improving building performance (particularly energy efficiency) is important for addressing climate change, since buildings account for 30% of global energy consumption, resulting in 27% of global greenhouse gas emissions.
Through its membership in the multi-nation ITER project, Russia participates in the design of nuclear fusion reactors.
CEER's objective is to facilitate cooperation among Europe's energy regulators in promoting a single-EU electricity and gas market.
The events that take place during the World Sustainable Energy Days present the latest technology trends, outstanding examples and European strategies and offer opportunities to establish new partnerships.
Sustainable energy planning should consider environmental impacts of energy consumption and production, particularly in light of the threat of global climate change, which is caused largely by emissions of greenhouse gases from the world's energy systems, which is a long-term process.
The program includes the creation of a standalone Global Registry of Fossil Fuels to ensure transparency and accountability of production and reserves.
The use of RETScreen is mandated or recommended by clean energy incentive programs at all levels of government worldwide, including the UNFCCC and the EU; Canada, New Zealand and the UK; numerous American states and Canadian provinces; cities and municipalities; and utilities.
Klein relates her meeting with Greta Thunberg in the opening essay in which she discusses the entrance of young people into those speaking out for climate awareness and change.
The Danish Ministry of Climate, Energy and Utilities (Danish: Klima-, Energi- og Forsyningsministeriet) is a governmental agency in Denmark.
The shift in the charge of electricity consumption instead of the present trend to increase of the fixed prices would promote economically the energy savings and renewable energy investments.
RECS International represents market players in discussions with national and international government, and facilitates events and activities.
These strategic storages are in addition to the existing storages of crude oil and petroleum products with the oil companies and serve in response to external supply disruptions.
The international manifesto called for fossil fuel divestment and phase-out of use with a just transition to a low-carbon economy.
This is differentiated from coasting, which means running the vehicle in idle mode by disengaging the engine from the wheels, either by disengaging the clutch or setting the transmission or gearbox to neutral position.
In the early 1990s annual foreign investment in oil was below US$200 million, by the early 2000s it had surpassed US$1 billion (Campodónico, 2004).
A Gas Act, with its variations, is a stock short title used internationally for legislation relating to the regulation, production, distribution, supply and use of natural gas or coal gas as a source of energy.
Foremost, they argued that "targeted and principled divestment from companies in the fossil fuels industry that meet certain criteria ...
universities form a complete business plan that commercializes a technology developed at their school or one of the National Labs.
The current editors-in-chief are Tina Soliman Hunter (Macquarie Law School), Madeline Taylor (Macquarie Law School), and Anas F.
The Unit plays a key role in Belize's efforts to achieve Target 8.f in the millennium development goals.
The Ministry of Power was a United Kingdom government ministry dealing with issues concerning energy.
Authors who criticize the "thesis" of Petro-Islam itself (that petrodollars have had a significant effect on Muslim beliefs and practices) include Joel Beinin and Joe Stork.
Water is used for extraction, mining, processing, refining, and residue disposal of fossil fuels, as well as for growing feedstock for biofuels and for generating electricity.
For example, raising poultry and domesticated animals is an important part of the traditional Chinese rural human settlements and these elements create a stable and sustainable ecological cycle that benefits the environment.
The Borehole Thermal Energy Storage unit is 144 holes located 37 m (121 ft) below the ground and stretches over an approximate area of 35 m (115 ft) in diameter.
In the plan, the member state sets out sectoral targets, the technology mix they expect to use, the trajectory they will follow, and the measures and reforms they will undertake to overcome the barriers to developing renewable energy.
In the United Kingdom there have been complaints that district heating companies have too much of a monopoly and are insufficiently regulated, an issue the industry is aware of, and has taken steps to improve consumer experience through the use of customer charters as set out by the Heat Trust.
Most of the world’s leading publicly traded, private and state-owned oil & gas companies, oil & gas associations and major upstream service companies are members.
39/2013 Gas (Amendment) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 2024 New Zealand Gas Act 1992 United Kingdom This is a list of UK Public General Acts, which have a regional or national applicability.
analyzed the thermal performance of buildings that have PCM-enhanced construction materials within the structure.
The 2016 G20 Energy Efficiency Leading Programme is the G20's first long-term plan for energy efficiency, which is a “comprehensive, flexible, and adequately-resourced” framework for strengthened voluntary collaboration on energy efficiency among G20 members and beyond.
Velomobile Velomobiles (enclosed recumbent bicycles) have the highest energy efficiency of any known mode of personal transport because of their small frontal area and aerodynamic shape.
In addition, legislation about products, industry, transport and buildings has contributed to a general energy efficiency framework.
For a proposal to be approved, at least 25 percent of the eligible voters had to vote in favour of the question.
Death can be caused by smoky environments from inefficient stoves or from combustion of kerosene or coal for cooking.
BPS is a technology of considerable potential that provides the ability to quantify and compare the relative cost and performance attributes of a proposed design in a realistic manner and at relatively low effort and cost.
In this regard, stand-alone or combined heat recovery systems can be incorporated into residential or commercial buildings for energy saving.
The first IAQVEC conference was held October 7–9, 1992 at the 5th International Jacques Cartier Conference in Montreal, and an annual meeting has been held since 1992.
Three individuals served as Secretary of Energy under President Felipe Calderón PAN: Georgina Yamilet Kessel Martínez (December 2006 – January 2011), José Antonio Meade (January – September 2011), and Jordy Herrera Flores (September 2011 – November 2012).
Maren is a marine energy management system used to minimize fuel usage, thereby reducing vessel operator's fuel cost and the harmful emissions.
"Sweden's energy policy, in both the short and the long term, is to safeguard the supply of electricity and other forms of energy on terms that are competitive with the rest of the world.
She is a judge and mentor for various journalism organizations including the National Press Foundation and Report for America.
On July 13, 2009, Morningstar represented the United States at the signing ceremony of the intergovernmental agreement of the Nabucco pipeline.
More specifically, the plaintiffs challenged a provision in the Montana Environmental Policy Act (MEPA) that prohibited the state from considering greenhouse gas emissions as a factor when deciding whether to issue permits for energy-related projects.
Many of the House Democrats who voted for the tax and who lost their seats in the 1994 midterm election, blamed their loss on their vote for the BTU tax.
Cuba had access to Venezuelan oil through its membership in Petrocaribe under non-market conditions.
That July, it was abolished, with the distribution of functions of the ministry going to the Cabinet of Ministers.
LCEC also receives support from the European Union through a contract signed with the Central Bank of Lebanon.
Many of its functions were abandoned, with the remainder being absorbed into other bodies or departments.
Framers of the Red Deal call for revolutionary resistance that involves caretaking and responsibility of human and non-human relations.
The Seoul Metropolitan Government announced the launch of the second phase of the One Less Nuclear Power Plant, Seoul Sustainable Energy Action Plan, in August 2014.
In October 2017, Rosatom was reported to be considering postponing commissioning new nuclear plants in Russia due to excess generation capacity and that new nuclear electricity prices are higher than for existing plants.
Phipat Ratchakitprakarn, Deputy Prime Minister of Thailand and co-owner of PTG Energy (branded as PT), one of the largest oil companies in Thailand, was assigned by Anutin Charnvirakul, Prime Minister of Thailand to control and mitigate the impact of fuel crisis in Thailand.
As of 2008, 43% of the Swedish primary energy supply comes from renewable sources, which is the largest share in any European Union country.
Notes References External links Text of the Energy Act 2010 as in force today (including any amendments) within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.
The resulting house incorporated three key elements: superinsulation, extreme airtightness, and one of the first heat-recovery ventilators.
The earlier directive also required EU members to submit National Energy Efficiency Action Plans, with the first plan to be lodged by 30 June 2007.
Indeed, in some cases, deregulation has led to significant concentrations of "market power" with large very profitable companies having a large influence as price setters.
In such programs, model equations are tightly connected to the solution methods, often by making the solution procedure part of the actual model equations.
More recently, they are attracting interest in the HVAC sector as an effective strategy for a low-maintenance energy recovery solution that reduces energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, and HVAC system load.
Intel claims that display take up most power in mobile devices and reducing backlight linearly affects energy footprint.
In some countries natural gas is being used as a temporary "bridge fuel" to replace coal, in turn to be replaced by renewable sources or a hydrogen economy.
Asphalt felt and other products, such as porous polymer-based products, are available for this purpose and usually double as the water-resistant barrier/drainage plane.
As the name implies, it administers conservation efforts in Costa Rican national parks, develops energy sources, and regulates mining operations.
Overview The film is a reflection of the peak oil scenario argued by oil industry experts and political activists, including Matthew Simmons and James Howard Kunstler.
With aircraft There have been several aircraft hypermiling competitions held throughout the years, such the FuelVenture and CAFE challenges.
A nuclear gypsy is a temporary worker who performs the least desirable work in the nuclear power industry.
Following the 2014 Warburton Review initiated by the Abbott government, and subsequent negotiations with the Labor Opposition, in June 2015 the LRET target was reduced to 33,000 GWh.
This can be done through "reversible wetting" and drying of the PDRC surface with common liquids such as water and alcohol.
New Zealand Colleges and universities in New Zealand University of Otago (Dunedin, New Zealand) – in September 2016, the university created an ethical investments policy excluding investment in 'the exploration and extraction of fossil fuels'.
Notable awards include: 2023 - Grand Jury Award For Documentary Feature at the Awareness Film Festival in Los Angeles, California.
Nominations for the Interim Director-General and the interim headquarters were submitted by 30 April 2009.
Whether it is created by burning coal, oil or gas, or firewood or dung, or even running nuclear power plants, the first thing produced is heat".
The Ministry of Environment and Energy (Spanish: Ministerio de Ambiente y Energía, MINAE) is a ministry or department of the government of Costa Rica.
After being concluded, the agreement faced near total opposition from the petroleum industry, prompting U.S.
Hydropower stations of Georgia produce 80-85% of the electricity utilized within the country, the remaining 15-20% is produced by thermal power stations.
COGEN Europe was established in 1993 as a not-for-profit organisation (ASBL - association sans but lucratif in French and VZW - vereniging zonder winstoogmerk in Dutch) during the time that the European Union adopted the SAVE Directive.
List India Oil and Natural Gas Commission Act 1959 (repealed 1993) Ireland Gas Regulation Act, 1920 - Act No.
As of October 2009, the rate is assigned as follows: See also Carbon fee and dividend Carbon tax Ecotax Energy Tax Act of 1978 Energy Policy Act of 2005 Fuel economy in automobiles H.R.
National Solar Conference and World Renewable Energy Forum 2012 is an academic/scientific conference combined with a solar industry trade exhibition, to be held at the Denver Convention Center in Colorado, May 13 to 19, 2012.
Deutsche Post DHL operates over 1,100 in the UK and was the first operator in continental Europe; it announced in 2014 that it would use the trailers in France and Germany.
The Ministry of Hydrocarbons (MoH) is a ministry of the Government of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
It received the Grand Jury Award for Documentary Feature at the 2023 Awareness Film Festival in Los Angeles, California, as well as the Best Educational Documentary Award at the 2024 International Uranium Film Festival in Rio de Janeiro.
A 2016 study argues that petrostates may be emboldened to act more aggressively because of the inability of allied great powers to punish the petrostate.
The Ministry of Climate Change, Environment and Energy (Dhivehi: މޫސުމީ ބަދަލުތަކާއި ތިމާވެށްޓާއި ހަކަތައާ ބެހޭ ވުޒާރާ) was a Maldivian government ministry tasked with safeguarding and preserving the Maldives ecosystems and biodiversity as well as promoting sustainable energy resources.
See also List of energy storage projects References External links Drake Landing Solar Community Retrieved on September 30, 2009 Drake Landing Solar Community: Workings Retrieved on September 30, 2009
Thaksin Shinawatra, then prime minister in 2002, established the Bureau of Energy on 2 November 2001, B.E.2544, which was later upgraded to the Ministry of Energy in 2002 pursuant to the Restructuring of Government Organization Act (2002).
Both funds aimed to leverage the UK's world-class research and innovation capacity to pioneer new ways to support economic development, social welfare, and long-term sustainable and equitable growth in low- and middle-income countries.
National and regional RETScreen training workshops have been conducted upon the official request of the Governments of Chile, Saudi Arabia, 15 countries in West and Central Africa, and the Latin American Energy Organization (OLADE).
The film also examines the realization of a new threat: the presence of nuclear waste stored close to the sea, focusing on its long-term radioactivity.
Objective 6: Realizing the general policies of article 44 of the constitution in oil industry Objective 7: Achieve advanced technology in oil, gas and petrochemical industries to reach the second position of science and technology in the region.
Because of the cross-flow design of the unit, its physical size will dictate the air path length, and as this increases, heat transfer will increase but pressure drop will also increase, and so plate spacing is increased to reduce pressure drop, but this in turn will reduce heat transfer.
Energy management software often provides tools for reducing energy costs and consumption for buildings, communities or industries.
The participation of a wide range of stakeholders is essential for achieving environmental, economic, and social sustainability in this framework.
DCIE is the percentage value derived, by dividing information technology equipment power by total facility power.
These issues range from conventional natural resources law to cutting-edge intellectual property issues related to synthetic genomics and advanced materials.
Moving to CBS News in New York, she won an Emmy for her work on the broadcast 48 Hours then moved to Washington to cover two presidential administrations for the various CBS broadcasts as well as the affiliate division Newspath.
Each regional winner receives DOE prize money and a chance to compete for a National Grand Prize at a competition held in Washington, D.C.
It is an open source protocol for the energy management of energy intensive devices found in the build environment, such as photovoltaic (PV) systems, electric vehicle (EV) chargers, batteries, (hybrid) heat pumps and white goods.
The total energy consumption of a house reflects several factors relating to its building envelope: (1) heat loss through windows, walls, and ceiling, (2) heat loss through the basement, and (3) air leakage.
For example, with an internal room temperature of 20 °C (68 °F), the vapor barrier will then only reach 7.3 °C (45 °F) when the outside temperature is at −18 °C (−1 °F).
Increased use of natural and task lighting has been shown by one study to increase productivity in schools and offices.
People-driven energy conservation programs, such as those sponsored by Energy Education, can be highly effective in reducing energy use and cost.
History Focus was originally formed by the Wisconsin Legislature in 1999 and funded by the Utility Public Benefits fund.
It is a knowledge-based institution of high quality and dedication, offers services and seeks to find complete solutions for the kinds of difficulties and improvements in the entire spectrum of the wind energy sector by carrying out further research.
Most recent were InnoStock 2012 (the 12th International Conference on Thermal Energy Storage) in Lleida, Spain and GreenStock 2015 in Beijing.
The arrival of the liberalization of the electrical market has had a strong impact on the nuclear industry, revealing the true costs (e.g.
The rapid change to atomic power envisioned during this period never materialized, in part due to environmental fears following high-profile accidents such as the 1979 Three Mile Island accident, the 1986 Chernobyl disaster and the 2011 Fukushima nuclear disaster.
When the greenhouse needs heat, such as to extend the growing season, water is withdrawn from the warm well, becomes chilled while serving its heating function, and is returned to the cold well.
The Mission has set the ambitious target of deploying 20,000 MW of grid-connected solar power by 2022.
International After the Green New Deal idea was proposed by Thomas Friedman in 2007 and developed by the British Green New Deal Group, a plan for an international green new deal was advanced by the United Nations.
In mosques throughout the world "from the African plains to the rice paddies of Indonesia and the Muslim immigrant high-rise housing projects of European cities, the same books could be found", paid for by Saudi Arabian government.
The General Secretariat is led by the Secretary General, who is currently Jamal Essa Al Loughani, and includes four departments: Finance and Administrative Affairs; Information and Library; Economics; and Technical Affairs.
Race results 2010 Shell Eco Marathon The team competed for the first time with their vehicle named "Tigergen II" in the Shell Eco-Marathon although it did not finish the race due to technical difficulties.
Although certified Energy Star homes use at least 15 percent less energy than standard new homes built in accordance with the International Residential Code, they typically achieve a 20- to 30-percent savings.
On the other hand energy policy may be dominated by defense policy, for example some counties started building expensive nuclear power plants to supply material for bombs.
Imbalance between the phases causes problems such as heating in motors and existing wiring, leading to wasteful energy consumption.
Guides and handbooks are a series of carefully researched and readily accessible publications gives detailed coverage on a range of important topics, and encapsulating the knowledge and experience derived from experts in all the AIVC Member Countries.
Regen SW was funded by the South West of England Regional Development Agency until that agency was abolished in March 2012.
LEED Rating System Many institutions in the United States are administering the LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Green Building Rating System.
Indiscriminate acts of violence by the police on both protesters and bystanders were also reported, along with acts of looting by some protesters in Harare, Bulawayo and Kadoma.
Formed in 1988, the Council was tasked with supervising all oil and gas companies that operate in Abu Dhabi.
The Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries (OAPEC; Arabic: منظمة الأقطار العربية المصدرة للبترول) is a multi-governmental organization headquartered in Kuwait which coordinates energy policies among oil-producing Arab states.
Corporate career Hopper is a graduate of the University of Arkansas Fulbright College with a BA degree in Political Science and the University of Arkansas/Fayetteville law school with a JD degree.
It is assumed to save up to 7% fuel in the NEDC driving cycle; in real road traffic conditions, the savings is estimated to be up to 10%.
The Declaration lists a series of goals aimed at providing "reliable, adequate and affordable" energy supplies.
While oil per unit of GDP has fallen impressively in large energy-consuming economies like the United States, total oil consumption, and indeed, total energy consumption, continue to grow by leaps and bounds.
recruited from day-labor centers where jobless people gather hoping to find work." About a hundred subcontractors employ about 3,000 workers, compared to about 400 workers directly employed by TEPCO.
Cabinet Ministers Didier Budimbu - 2022-present Aime Ngoy Mukena - 2015–2022 Crispin Atama Tabe - 2012 - 2015 Martin Kabwelulu - 2011 - 2012 Célestin Mbuyu Kabango - 2008 - 2011 René Isekemanga Nkenka - 2008 Lambert Mende - 2007 - 2008 == References ==
The Ministry of Energy (Arabic: وزارة الطاقة) is a government ministry in Saudi Arabia and part of the cabinet.
Firstly, increased energy efficiency makes the use of energy relatively cheaper, thus encouraging increased use.
The models also typically take into account energy price data and through the use of mathematical optimization algorithms (typically linear programming) are able to minimize the energy costs of a given system.
Participation and cooperation between the parties are important principles and integral preconditions for the activities of the Petroleum Safety Authority Norway.
The report also said that the IEA has not learned the lesson of previous underestimates, and in 2008, net additions of wind power globally were four times greater than the average IEA estimate from its 1995–2004 predictions.
In particular, this would happen if increased resource efficiency enables an expansion of production in the economy, and an increase in the rate of economic growth.
Completed with a capacity of 5.03 million barrels (800,000 m3), completion October 2008 Sinopec facility, Ningbo, Zhejiang Province.
CleanTechnica wrote: "Conventional analog motors are the energy efficient equivalent of the incandescent light bulb, only instead of shedding loads of energy has heat they are constantly drawing electricity whether they need it or not.
taxes, incentives, manufacturing standards) are in place to implement the total policy Do you want to develop and promote a plan for how to get the world to net zero emissions?
It is responsible for developing and implementing policies concerning petroleum and related products.
Sophie Hermans of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD) headed the ministry as Minister of Climate Policy and Green Growth.
List of ministers Since 1960 the ministry was headed by the following six ministers: Abdullah Tariki (December 1960 – 9 March 1962) Ahmed Zaki Yamani (9 March 1962 – 5 October 1986) Hisham Nazer (24 December 1986 – 2 August 1995) Ali Naimi (2 August 1995 – 7 May 2016) Khalid A.
Under the law, the gas cap was set weekly by the Hawaii Public Utilities Commission (PUC) based on average spot prices for regular unleaded gasoline in three U.S.
Among others Friends of the Earth have criticized Stora Enso policy in 2009 of the shift in the Eucalyptus monoculture plantations in Brazil endangering the rain forests and local farmers land ownerships.
Science and Technology Unit The Science and Technology Unit is responsible for the promotion of science and technology in Belize.
Member states The statute to gain IRENA membership requires that a state be a member of the United Nations and to regional intergovernmental economic-integration organizations.
RMI works with businesses, policymakers, financial institutions, local communities, and other partners to drive investment in clean energy solutions.
A water-energy-food (WEF) nexus assessment supports natural resource management by providing an integrated framework for evaluation and decision-making.
There are 15 Indian-linked vessels in the Persian Gulf, three each in the Gulf of Oman and the Gulf of Aden and two in the Red Sea.
New elements include miles-per-gallon equivalent (MPGe) for alternative-fuel vehicles, gallons or kilowatt-hours per 100 mi, a five-year fuel-cost estimate, and a QR code linking to fueleconomy.gov for region-specific data.
Additional duties that are performed by the Executive Board include organizing all of the Forum's activities.
When the frame to be projected and the frame being projected has considerable difference a software interrupt is asserted and new chroma values for pixels and brightness values are calculated.
Focus Nuru Energy aims to eradicate the use kerosene lamp from Africa through provision of LED lamps to the bottom of the pyramid markets that cannot afford other alternative solar lighting source due to their high cost.
In 2013, the Russian state allocated 80.6 billion rubles ($2.4 billion) toward the growth of its nuclear industry, especially export projects where Russian companies build, own and operate the power station, such as the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant.
The nuclear exclusion clause is a clause which excludes damage caused by nuclear and radiation accidents from regular insurance policies of, for example, home owners.
The discount on the price of oil imports Bangladesh receives does not "come free", according to Ahmed.
This is through the distribution of affordable LED lamps that are recharged using a simple to use human powered generator that is more efficient than current solar.
Reporting Reporting tools are targeted at owners and executives who want to automate energy and emissions auditing.
The Building Performance Database (BPD) is an anonymized database that contains energy use intensity data for hundreds of thousands of buildings in the United States.
Potential heat sources are waste heat from industry, CHP plants burning waste, biomass power plants, geothermal and solar thermal energy (central solar heating), large scale heat pumps, waste heat from cooling purposes and data centers and other sustainable energy sources.
It is responsible for the exploration, production, refining, distribution, marketing, import, export, and conservation of petroleum, natural gas, petroleum products, and liquefied natural gas in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
Also, inadequate skilled workforce is vital in boosting productivity in the Electric power industry and Petroleum industry.
The Partnership for Energy Efficiency Cooperation (IPEEC) is a high-level international forum which includes developed and developing countries.
The Icelandic Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism (Icelandic: Iðnaðarráðuneytið) is one of the cabinet-level government ministries responsible for Iceland's economy.
The third option is that operation of facades is left to personal control of the inhabitants, but the building automation system gives active feedback and specific advises.
For example, some utility-scale facilities provide only enough power for a few hundred average homes.
The ministry was established on 16 February 2023 following the restructuring of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Regional Development.
Like many western states, it collects significant revenue from extraction taxes—20.9 percent of its overall sources.
Other web-based tool developers are welcome to use this information at no cost, providing that the source is properly credited.
The plan was commissioned under EU Energy Efficiency Directive 2012/27/EU of the European Union and released on 3 December 2014.
President Franklin Roosevelt to withdraw the treaty from ratification consideration and abandon the agreement.
Neither is there any reason to assume that the peak will occur when half the ultimate recoverable resource has been produced; and in fact, empirical evidence appears to contradict this idea.
Based on information from DOE, we estimate that any costs incurred by the agency to carry out the bill's provisions would total less than $500,000 annually and would be subject to the availability of appropriated funds.
Switzerland, which has electrified virtually its entire railway network (heritage railways like the Dampfbahn Furka-Bergstrecke being notable exceptions), derives much of the electricity used by trains from hydropower, including pumped hydro storage.
Another expert, Stockholm Environment Institute researcher Peter Erickson, testified that Montana emits more greenhouse gases than some entire countries, comparing the emissions created by the energy consumed within the state’s borders in 2019 to the amount emitted by Ireland in the same year.
Students expressed concern that these reforms will lead to further inequalities of access to higher education between students in urban, peri-urban, and rural areas.
Complete list of Progress Reports EU commission 2015 Renewable Energy Report See also EU Renewable energy directive European Union directive EU Energy efficiency directive References External links EU National Renewable Energy Action Plans (NREAP) National Energy Efficiency Plans and Annual Reports.
Limits of RECS Several non-governmental environmental organizations like Greenpeace and the World Wide Fund for Nature claimed that in practice there was no ecological benefit ensured by this certification method alone.
Federal Office for the Environment (FOEN): Responsible for matters of the environment, including the protection of plants and animals and the protection against noise, air pollution or natural hazards.
The first conference, SHC 2012 took place 9–11 July 2012 in San Francisco, followed by SHC 2013 on 23–25 September 2013 in Freiburg, Germany, SHC 2014 on 13–15 October in Beijing, China, and SHC 2015 on 2–4 December in Istanbul, Turkey.
This is also expected to result in cuts in carbon emissions and to strengthen the country's role in sustainable development technologies as well as increasing its international economic competitiveness.
Fossil fuels Coal Coal remains the foundation of the Chinese energy system, covering close to 70 percent of the country's primary energy needs and representing 80 percent of the fuel used in electricity generation.
Bangladesh relies on coal for much of its power, and has ramped up power generation from coal as well as importing more power created from coal.
Spain In Spain, the conversion (called transformation) is regulated by Real Decreto 866/2010, de 2 de julio, por el que se regula la tramitación de las reformas de vehículos.
This is most pronounced when the wall itself has poor insulation performance: in a wall constructed to modern standards of insulation, even this effect may be reduced to a negligible benefit.
Partner countries of the Baku Initiative The partner countries of the transport and energy aspects and issues of the Baku Initiative are listed below.
However, definitions of "income" and "adequate heating regime" vary between UK Government and Devolved Administrations.
Department of Energy’s (DOE's) Building Energy Codes Program (BECP) was established in 1991 (originally called the Building Standards and Guidelines Program), with its activities defined by the Energy Conservation and Production Act (ECPA) (Pub.
As operators of nuclear power plants often have limited third-party liability, in the case of a nuclear accident it is possible that private property damage would be covered neither by the operator of the nuclear power plant nor by the property owners' insurance.
The organisation works with industry, communities and the public sector to change the way we generate, supply and use energy.
Mild parallel hybrid These types use a generally compact electric motor (usually <20 kW) to provide auto-stop/start features and to provide extra power assist during the acceleration, and to generate on the deceleration phase (also known as regenerative braking).
The central function of the site was a search engine, which offered a "mind map" based search refinement function.
Recently, LCEC in collaboration with EDZ has worked on developing a complete study report on the success of this project, a year after its completion.
As the "EL" series is set to end at "EL 99999" (most vehicles in the country have five-digit registration numbers between 10000 and 99999), the Norwegian Public Roads agency opted for the prefix "EK" in the second series of plates, to signify "elektrisk kjøretøy", Norwegian for electric vehicle.
In turn they receive a market premium from the grid operator to compensate for the difference between the fixed EEG payment and the average spot price for electricity.
The Supreme Petroleum Council (Arabic: المجلس الأعلى للبترول) was the highest governing body of oil, gas and similar industry-related activities in the Emirate of Abu Dhabi.
In June 2017, RMI merged with WattTime, an organization providing real-time power plant data to consumer devices for automatic dispatchable power consumption.
The conferences cover a wide range of key research areas with the goal of simultaneously improving indoor environmental quality (IEQ) and energy efficiency enhancing wellbeing and sustainability.
In the foreword to the book, Steve Thomas, Professor of Energy Studies at the University of Greenwich in the UK, states that "the economic realities of rapidly escalating costs and insurmountable financing problems...
Four other questions on the ballot concerned international games representation, nuclear power, coal power and a ban on imports of agricultural products and food from areas affected by the Fukushima nuclear disaster.
Hunter Lovins (formerly Sheldon), a lawyer, forester, and social scientist founded Rocky Mountain Institute, based in Colorado.
Prior to the Electricity Feed-in Act, operators of small power plants could only obtain access to the grid at the behest of the grid owners and were sometimes refused entirely.
The gas cap had a baseline price that is the same throughout Hawaii, but the total wholesale price varied depending on seven zones, reflecting the differing costs of delivery to various locations throughout the state.
The assistant director of LEED at UF, Bahar Armaghani, said, "Green Buildings are not exclusively concerned with saving money through more efficient technology.
Its membership consists of senior officials and experts on energy of the commissions, organizations, funds and programmes listed below.
The South American Energy Council is a body set up to co-ordinate the regional energy policy of the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR).
According to the African Development Bank, Uganda has maintained the top position for two consecutive years.
Additionally, Carter stated that those who insist on driving large, unnecessarily powerful cars must expect to pay more for that luxury.
Army Judge Advocate General's Legal Center and School's Contract Attorneys Deskbook Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals
The Federal Government has also committed to an industry-wide review of petrol and diesel standards in 2021.
Filtration mandates: To combat unintentional microplastic release during washing, France passed a law requiring all new washing machines sold in the country to be equipped with mandatory microfiber filters starting in January 2025.
References External links National Solar Conference/World Renewable Energy Forum Call for papers World Renewable Energy Network American Solar Energy Society International Solar Energy Society Colorado Renewable Energy Society National Renewable Energy Laboratory
Volunteers in local chapters meet monthly for teleconference lectures by climate experts and communication with other groups, to discuss coordinated actions to be undertaken by members, to practice skills involved in lobbying politicians and dealing with media, and to plan local outreach.
The EU set itself a 20% energy savings target by 2020 compared to 1990 levels, but member states decide individually how energy savings will be achieved.
By capturing and utilising heat that would otherwise be wasted, CHP directly meets thermal energy demands while significantly reducing primary energy consumption.
The rolling resistance coefficient (RRC) indicates the amount of force required to overcome the hysteresis of the material as the tire rolls.
Director Faith Morgan, together with the non-profit group The Community Solution, seeks to educate audiences about peak oil and the impact it will have on transportation, agriculture, medicine, and other industries.
At the Center for Energy Sustainability and Economics' Production Optimisation Week Asia Forum in Malaysia on 27 July 2011, Finance Deputy Minister YB.
History Disparate energy departments were consolidated by the government with the establishment of the National Energy Policy Committee in 1992 (B.E.2535) under the National Energy Policy Council Act (1992).
In fact, voters in Edmonton were effectively split and the rural areas were in favour of provincial control, but an even larger majority in Calgary voted to retain the old system.
Johan Witteveen, the Managing Director of the IMF, said in 1974: "The international monetary system is facing its most difficult period since the 1930s." The IMF administered a new lending program during 1974–1976 called the Oil Facility.
Al-Falih was exasperated with those claims, arguing that natural depletion, and strong demand growth meant that there was plenty of room for new supplies, while the shale drillers would not crash the market.
By early 1972, the criterion for admission had changed to oil being a significant source of revenue (rather than the principal source) of a prospective member nation.
It features high-tech educational equipment, such as smart boards, a children's book library, math and science touch screen games, a methods lab designed to look and feel like a real elementary school classroom, a Mac lab and psychology research booths.
Licensing Organizations who want to provide their customers tools to predict home energy consumption can license the Home Energy Saver Application Programming Interfaces (APIs).
Local government reserves Guangdong Province has begun plans for an expanded reserve from 20 days to 90 days.
Having been in force for less than a year, the cap was seen by some as artificially raising prices for consumers in Hawaii.
He is also the author of Untapped: The Scramble for Africa’s Oil (Harcourt, 2007) and co-editor of American and Muslim Worlds Before 1900 (Bloomsbury, 2020).
Giving their perspectives on energy security concerns and new trends in the power industry at the Singapore Energy Summit, Singapore's Second Minister S.
Some vehicles have been modified to use another fuel source if it is available, such as cars modified to run on autogas (LPG) and diesels modified to run on waste vegetable oil that has not been processed into biodiesel.
In 2021, the IEA adopted the Global Energy and Climate Model to develop the world's first comprehensive study of how to transition to an energy system at net zero CO2 emissions by 2050.
Activities In 2005, the PSA was made part of the Coexistence Group II working group, a joint project of the Norwegian government, the Institute of Marine Research, the Norwegian Fishermen's Association, the Norwegian Foundation for Nature Research and the Norwegian Oil Industry Association.
Indian Oil purchased the cargo currently aboard the Curacao-flagged VLCC Jaya and Jordan, have signalled India as their discharge location.
At the time of trial, Montana was one of only three states with constitutions having environmental protections explicitly recited in their bill of rights, thus avoiding a need for plaintiffs to preliminarily prove they have such rights.
Under the supervision of the Lebanese Center for Energy Conservation (LCEC), the project consisted of installing 93 individual (natural circulation) solar water heaters, and 11 collective (forced circulation) solar water heaters, covering a total of 1,040 square meters of collection area.
27) is an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom pertaining to the regulation of energy usage and markets, with amendments to similar pieces of previous legislation.
The first Namibian minister of mines and energy was Andimba Toivo ya Toivo, a liberation fighter posthumously declared a national hero of Namibia.
Improving aerodynamics; (part of the reason that SUVs get such bad fuel economy is the drag on the car.
Independent Complaints Authority for Radio and Television (ICA): Decides on complaints related to radio and television programmes.
As of 2021, commentators such as the Council on Foreign Relations have noted that in addition to climate-friendly policies being enacted in the U.S.
Commercially available products There are only two radiator reflectors approved for use in the UK Government's Carbon Emission Reduction Target (CERT) Scheme administered by Ofgem (the UK Regulator of energy companies) – Radflek and Heatkeeper (also called Novitherm).
In recent history, stripper well production makes up about 8.2% of United States natural gas production.
Fuel consumption A 2003 California Energy Commission (CEC) preliminary study estimated that adoption of low-rolling resistance tires could save 1.5–4.5% of all gasoline consumption, but that current data were also insufficient to compare safety and other characteristics.
Congress, in refusing to learn from history, may have doomed the natural gas industry by repeating past mistakes.
The label is named for Senator Mike Monroney (D-Oklahoma), who sponsored the 1958 legislation that created the requirement.
In view of the strategic significance of the Ministry's existence as a political body that sets the general petroleum strategies on new bases to go in line with the requirements of the country at this stage.
Turkey In October 2021 a coal-fired power station was said by opposition MP Ali Öztunç to be still operating without filters due to company lobbying.
The result shows how evenly divided the province was on the issue, with a majority of only 151 votes in favour of leaving the old system in place.
The China Energy Label (CEL; Chinese: 中国能效标识; pinyin: zhōngguó néngxiào biāozhì) is an energy consumption label for products in China, similar to the European Union energy label.
Its purpose is to enhance global cooperation in the field of energy efficiency and to facilitate policies that yield energy efficiency gains across all sectors globally.
WHEC is held every two years at different locations around the world and, in combination with World Hydrogen Technology Conventions (WHTC), is organized with the support of International Association for Hydrogen Energy.
Established maximum lawful prices (ceilings) for the sale of natural gas, which were phased out over a series of years, allowing market forces to set natural gas prices.
When the costs incurred are smaller than the cost stop, the difference between the costs and the cost stop is called "excess oil".
The legislative history of the statute indicates that it may also be used as the basis for making indemnity payments under certain government contracts, the so-called "residual powers.
Economic analysis – Encourages the use of sound economic modeling practices, studies the impacts of energy policies on the economy, and projects the economic benefits of energy efficiency technologies, practices, and policies.
As of March 2012, ten of the member states were on track to surpass the national goal, and 12 others will meet their target.
This has been cited as the worst EV in the world and made Victoria the laughing stock of the EV community globally Australian Capital Territory ACT offers $15,000 interest free loans.
Helium, which is the second-lightest chemical element, will rise to the upper layers of Earth's atmosphere, where it can forever break free from Earth's gravitational attraction.
It was conceived as a public resource for governments, project developers, banks and finance institutions, NGOs, and international organisations as well as the general public.
Achnacarry (Scottish Gaelic: Achadh na Cairidh) is a hamlet, private estate, and a castle in the Lochaber region of the Highlands, Scotland.
Barriers to implementing the renewable energy plan are seen to be "primarily social and political, not technological or economic".
Safeguards against misuse Reputable eco-friendly electricity labels ensure an ecological benefit in practice.
Existing buildings will also be required to comply with the requirement when undergoing major retrofitting works.
Energy management systems can be used to centrally control devices like HVAC units and lighting systems across multiple locations, such as retail, grocery and restaurant sites.
Russia's first floating nuclear power plant, Akademik Lomonosov, is equipped to provide power to a remote Russian town on the Bering Strait.
117th Congress The Alliance states that it supports a suite of energy efficiency policies designed to both reduce carbon emissions and fuel economic recovery in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.
The rejected proposal was watered down, as the Clinton administration tried to salvage their efforts by offering to exempt manufacturers and base the tax on the cost rather than the heat content of energy.
Higher-density hempcrete mixtures are used for floor and roof insulation, while lower-density mixtures are used for indoor insulation and outdoor plasters.
It is a policy dialogue on energy and transport cooperation between the European Union, Turkey, and the former Soviet republics, undertaken as part of the INOGATE energy and TRACECA transport programmes.
Objectives of the Race The purpose of the Shell Eco Marathon race is to drive as far as possible on the least amount of fuel.
More formal approaches to building performance appeared in the 1970s and 1980s, with seminal works being the book on Building Performance and CIB Report 64.
Atomic Energy Authority Act (with its variations) is a stock short title used for legislation in the United Kingdom relating to the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority.
University of Maine System (Maine, US) – in January 2015, the board of trustees of the University of Maine System unanimously voted to divest from direct holdings in coal-mining companies.
Consequently, the session adjourned without a treaty, leaving the future of the global instrument uncertain.
Deep Home Energy Upgrades or Retrofits – Upgrades can include actions ranging from replacing old inefficient appliances with new Energy Star appliances, adding insulation, or replacing major systems like heating equipment or the roof.
"Viewer mode" in RETScreen Expert is free and permits access to significant functionality of the software.
Working on developing and building human cadres, capable of carrying out responsibilities, to be achieved within the comprehensive program, currently, being executed to develop and modernize the Petroleum Sector.
Another advantage of borrowing may be that "once large loans have been arranged at low interest rates—perhaps with government support—the money can then be lent out at higher rates of return".
However, Mulroney did not eliminate the last vestiges of the program until two-and-a half years later, when world oil prices had dropped below pre-1980s levels (as adjusted for inflation: see Long-Term Oil Prices, 1861–2007).
Model Code Development DOE is directed by statute to review the technical and economic basis of building energy codes and participate in processes for their review and modification, including adoption of all technologically feasible and economically justified energy efficiency measures.
To do this, UN-Energy is reviewing energy-related activities within the UN system and trying to mainstream them into a broader approach.
The BPD contains business proprietary and confidential information, and all data is anonymized and can only be analyzed in aggregate.
Under Taiwanese law, for their initiative to be presented to the voters, a total of 280,000 signatures (1.5% of eligible voters) were required for a question to be considered by the Central Election Commission (CEC).
Other examples might include the growth in garden lighting after the introduction of energy-saving Light Emitting Diodes or the increasing size of houses driven partly by higher fuel efficiency in home heating technologies.
In the European Union, the Packaging and Packaging Waste Regulation (PPWR), adopted in early 2025, sets binding targets to reduce packaging waste.
This is a large number as it is equal one-tenth of Iran's total oil revenues since the 1979 revolution.
Its chief executive, Merlin Hyman, was previously director of the Environmental Industries Commission, where he worked to help British companies in the rapidly growing worldwide market for low-carbon products and services.
History Prior to its launch, the BPD was described in a conference presentation by Elena Alschuler and Cody Taylor from October 2012.
Clean tech law could also address issues and conflicts surrounding the placement of such technologies (e.g., glare from solar panels).
On 26 March 2018, the Chinese government issued the first long term oil trading contracts denominated in petroyuans.
Industry IPEEC's work on these issues is coordinated through the Energy Management Working Group (EMWG), which encompasses the Energy Management Action Network for Industrial Efficiency (EMAK).
The European Environment Agency asserts that RETScreen an "extremely useful tool." RETScreen has also been called "one of the few software tools, and by far the best, available for evaluating the economics of renewable energy installations" and "a tool to enhance...
The Solar Decathlon China (SDC) is a cooperative student competition in China focused on the design and construction of sustainable housing.
Introduction The Citizens' Climate Lobby is a non-partisan organization with members throughout the United States, Canada and other countries, which advocates for effective climate legislation.
In order to support the decision-making process towards ventilative cooling solutions, airflow models with different resolution are used.
External links Ministry of Petroleum Official website The Egyptian General Petroleum Corporation (EGPC) The Egyptian Natural Gas Holding Company The Egyptian Petrochemicals Holding Company Ganoub El-Wadi Petroleum Holding Company Egypt's Cabinet Database
If in response, the amount of travel purchased more than doubles (i.e., demand is price elastic), then fuel consumption would increase, and the Jevons paradox would occur.
Under the plan, the German government offers an average annual increase of 2.1% in macroeconomic energy productivity from 2008 to 2020.
Furthermore, the Russian Energy Agency is a center for the exchange, monitoring of information, trainings, coordination and promotion of projects in the field of energy efficiency, renewable energy and innovation in the fuel and energy sector.
The authorization for this reserve expired in 1998: There is hereby established the National Strategic Uranium Reserve under the direction and control of the Secretary.
5057 would exempt certain external power supplies from complying with standards set forth in a final rule published in February 2014.
The 2016 annual report on NAPE, submitted to the EU on 28 April 2016, presented the major legislative and non-legislative energy efficiency measures adopted in the previous year.
The World Forum on Energy Regulation (WFER) is the leading international conference on energy regulation, held once every three years.
Moreover, there is also a static leakage current, which has become more and more accentuated as feature sizes have become smaller (below 90 nanometres) and threshold levels lower.
West Yorkshire Police had police deployed at Ferrybridge services, who deployed a stinger to stop motorists from leaving the services to take part in a protest on the M62 eastbound.
Orr would go on to apply many of those techniques to retro-fitting existing buildings to improve energy efficiency.
Areas of work allocated to the Ministry Managing the exploration and exploitation of petroleum resources, including natural gas.
In 1958, the name was changed to Secretaría de Patrimonio Nacional (Secretariat of National Assets, SEPANAL).
On the other hand, changing the registration allows a conversion to qualify for tax incentives available in some states, such as Oregon, for either the vehicle, the charging system, or both.
The rebound effect is likely to be less than 30% at the household level and may be closer to 10% for transport.
With this data the "energy saving module" computes a reference heat load to match the cooling capacity and then calculates operating parameters.
Generally, they extract heat from the exhaust and use it to preheat air entering the combustion system, reducing the need for fuel and boosting the system's energy efficiency.
Panic buying was reported on 13 September 2005 as drivers stocked up on fuel with drivers reported to be waiting an hour to fill their vehicles with petrol.
In 2019, the name changed from the Ministry of Energy, Utilities and Climate to the Ministry of Climate, Energy and Utilities.
At this point, the country was at level two, dubbed "Keeping Australia moving", after going through a preparation and planning phase.
The petroleum policy is based on increasing the reserves as well as production of crude oil and natural gas through intensifying the upstream activities.
There has been panic buying of petrol, but the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority (EPRA) has maintained stability in prices for 30 days.
The main components of energy policy include legislation, international treaties, energy subsidies and other public policy techniques.
The Cuban economy, heavily dependent on economic aid from the Soviet Union, suffered tremendously following the end of the Cold War.
In consideration of the long-term costs related to clean-up and shut-down activities if a nuclear accident were to occur, prominent members of the civil society in India had called on the Government and political parties to hold nuclear suppliers responsible and liable for nuclear accidents.
The NGPA: Authorized the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to regulate interstate and some intrastate natural gas production and transportation.
The founding of APPO was spearheaded by Nigeria as an effort to mitigate the nation's dependency on Western technology and Western markets for oil export revenues.
It exercises technical and production supervision over enterprises of the Ministry, and introduces the most modern equipment, technical improvements and inventions, mechanization and automation of production processes, and established norms for the consumption of materials, power and fuel.
The Energy Revolution included the establishment of national programs to develop renewable energy technology, as well the creation of a ministerial Department for Renewable Energy which was added to the Ministry of Basic Industry.
According to the authorities, so far Georgia has been exploiting only 18% of its hydro resource potential.
This Clean Development Mechanism project led to the firm partnering with Bank of America Merrill Lynch in 2011, in a deal that would see the investment bank purchase carbon credits from Nuru Energy for a period of 10 years.
The Organization changed its name from African Petroleum Producers Association to African Petroleum Producers Organization in 2017.
Note that the average heat loss in the room was not reduced by such a large percentage as only part of the surface of the room was covered by radiators.
In February 2015, the proposal was accepted by Unicode and the characters were included in Unicode 9.0.
Today, AIVC serves as a source of information for scientists and professionals interested in building ventilation and infiltration issues.
The Independent Movement presented four candidates, and Williams campaigned under his own banner, that of the Veteran's & Active Force.
Prepare studies and plans which the process of development required and modernization of the ministry and with a view to keeping pace with The developments oil industry and mineral resources in the world.
According to John Lichfield, some in the movement extend their hatred of politicians even to any "would-be politicians who emerge from their own ranks".
The "Energy Credit for Qualified Fuel Cell Property and Qualified Microturbine Property" was created in 2008, but it appears to have expired as of 2013.
Sainsbury's warned that they would run out of food within days having seen a 50% increase in their sales over the previous two days; Tesco and Safeway stated that they were rationing some items.
Other occupational stressors include heat, stifling uniforms and poor-quality food served in the company mess.
Like all those who depend on casual work for survival, some workers may have alcohol abuse or have other personal issues that make them unsuitable for permanent work.
In fact, Holmes probably had no intention of joining in but simply wanted to exclude the Neutral Zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait from the negotiations.
Finland burn wood with peat and processes are developed to use peat (ref voima 9.9.2019) According to Stern report it is cheaper to stop the global warming emissions than pay the climate change costs.
Federal Office of Transport (FOT): Responsible for public transport at the federal level, including the development of the federal rail network and navigation on the Rhine.
In March 2017, Hochstein joined Tellurian, a private Houston-based LNG company, where he served as senior vice president for marketing until his departure in September 2020.
It's organized jointly by the American Solar Energy Society, the World Renewable Energy Network, the International Solar Energy Society, the Colorado Renewable Energy Society, and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory.
The main objective of the Digital Cleanup Day is to limit the environmental impacts caused by the increasing use of digital technologies.
In 2023, it was announced that it would change its name to the Norwegian Ocean Industry Authority effective 1 January 2024.
The Ministry of Power (then named Ministry of Fuel and Power) was created on 11 June 1942 from functions separated from the Board of Trade.
In the 2017-18 budget speech by the Indian finance minister Arun Jaitley, it was announced that two more such caverns will be set up Chandikhole, Odisha and Bikaner in Rajasthan as part of the second phase.
The ministry was restructured on 31 July in the same year, hence renamed the Ministry of Energy, Manpower and Industry.
More recently, the transport sector has witnessed an increase in consumption with the growth in the electric vehicle market.
Transportation Automobiles The estimated energy efficiency for an automobile is 280 Passenger-Mile/106 Btu.
Swiss Federal Nuclear Safety Inspectorate (ENSI): Assesses and monitors security and radiation protection in Swiss nuclear installations.
They were desert kingdoms that had few natural resources and were without adequate financial resources to maintain the state.
This initiative encourages people to take concrete action by cleaning up their digital data and/or giving a second life to their unused computer equipment.
The position of Secretary for Petroleum was an office in the United Kingdom Government, associated with the Board of Trade.
This was followed by the Singapore Declaration on Climate Change, Energy and the Environment at the 3rd East Asia Summit.
The Ministry of Oil and Mineral Resources of Turkmenistan (Turkmen: Türkmenistanyň Nebit we Gaz ministrligi) is a former governmental agency of Turkmenistan.
The Farm Bill, updated every five or more years, provides an important source of funds for conservation easement purchase.
Although a persuasive view has prevailed that indirect effects with respect to energy and greenhouse emissions should be very small due to energy directly comprising only a small component of household expenditure, this view is gradually being eroded.
The campaign decentralized SEN's infrastructure, making energy infrastructure in Cuba significantly more resilient to risk of damage from hurricanes.
One operator has reported the trailers save 2% in fuel in service that included significant low speed delivery operation and 5% in higher speed long-haul operation.
The bill describes interim elimination of lawful prices and makes permanent elimination of wellhead price controls effective on January 1, 1993.
The documented performance of ventilative cooling systems through analysis of case studies aimed to promote the use of this technology in future high performance and conventional buildings.
The more details a user enters, (e.g., insulation levels, roofing, age of major equipment, how systems are used) the more customized the assessment results and energy efficiency recommendations become.
In order to hedge the financial institutions providing loans for the energy efficiency projects against credit risks, the Bureau of Energy Efficiency has also institutionalised two funds namely "Partial Risk Guarantee Fund for Energy Efficiency" and "Venture Capital Fund for Energy Efficiency".
Hubbert's peak "Hubbert's peak" can refer to the peaking of production in a particular area, which has now been observed for many fields and regions.
television show MythBusters investigated several fuel-saving devices using gasoline- and diesel-powered fuel-injected cars under controlled circumstances.
The religious concept of "Third Rome" only saw a major revival in the mid-19th century among Russian Slavophiles.
The exposure gained the interest of the public and the media, and while many considered it as a cult Ratzon and his wives claimed it to be a cooperative.
Life, publishing, legacy Bernhardt was born in Bischofswerda, in the Kingdom of Saxony, part of the German Empire, in 1875, to a innkeeping family.
Ahn's son Ahn Kwang-sup (born 1954) is an elder in the church and continues to expound on his father's work.
It was exposed as a forgery in 1920 by Lucien Wolf and the following year by Philip Graves in The Times.
For this reason, religious and historical experts thought the animation to be displayed for children and teenagers.
Between 1990 and 2001, he served eleven years of an eighteen-year sentence on a Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) conviction after he and several other Nation of Yahweh members were convicted of conspiracy for their ex-followers' role in more than a dozen murders.
A similar transformation occurred in Kashmir, either during the lifetime of Shams ud-Din Iraqi, who died in 1527, or in the subsequent decades, coinciding with the brief reign of the Chak dynasty.
The other is a hanging scroll from the Masuda family's emakimono Jigoku zoshi (ja), which was cut out and reworked into hanging scrolls.
These periods of concealment (dawr al-satr) might end with the renewed public manifestation of the imam, or continue until the present day.
In defense of his view he wrote Kitab al-Ghayba, which became the framework for the works of later Waqifite authors on the issue of al-Ghayba (the occultation).
Vukašin murdered him with the help of the voivode's young wife, Vidosava, despite Jevrosima's self-sacrificing attempt to save her brother.
Some early biblical manuscripts containing the text of this chapter in Hebrew are of the Masoretic Text tradition, which includes the Codex Cairensis (895), the Petersburg Codex of the Prophets (916), Aleppo Codex (10th century), and Leningrad Codex (1008).
Because Marko drank the samodiva's milk, he acquired supernatural powers and became a Bulgarian freedom fighter against the Turks.
It is quoted that Imam Mahdi taught du'a Faraj to Muhammad ibn Ahmad ibn Abi Layth, who was sheltered to Kadhimiya from the fear of being killed.
London and treason Around Easter 1591, Hacket travelled to London at Wigginton's suggestion, staying at a lodging house outside Smithfield.
Kohanim studying Although anti-Zionist, the Toldos Aharon chassidic movement has established a specialized study program for Jewish priests (kohanim) to prepare for Temple service.
The attacker was then brought to Menteng police station, and later transferred to Menteng Health Center.
He returns to Laban's house and orders Zoram, one of Laban's servants, to bring him the brass plates.
In Medina, the deputation stayed with the daughter of al-Harith, a woman of the Ansar from the Banu Najjar.
Membership The members of the group, which numbered around 1,000, appeared to be mostly poor Shi'a farmers from an agricultural area 19 kilometres northeast of Najaf, but they also seemed to have been heavily armed.
There is a focus on the cathartic release of emotions in the teachings, since emotional “errors” inside of people, which are emotions that are not in harmony with love, block the flow of God’s Love into the human soul.
The Magharians (Arabic: Al-Maghariyyah, 'people of the caves') or Maghāriya were, according to Jacob Qirqisani, a pre-Christian and proto-Gnostic Jewish sect founded in the 1st century BCE.
They cited various midrashic statements to fuel their ecstasy as to the imminent revelation of the Messiah, and some of them drank and toasted l’chaim and danced before and during the funeral – an act that shocked many admirers of Schneerson across the Jewish world.
She claimed to have direct contact with the 12th Shia Imam Muhammad al-Mahdi, and was a self-proclaimed miracle worker, despite her lack of wearing the customary Muslim hijab (veil).
In 1938, when Buckland Abbey was partly destroyed by fire, the drum was rescued and taken to safety at Buckfast Abbey.
In Judaism, the messiah will be a future Jewish king from the line of David and redeemer of the Jewish people and humanity.
In rabbinic thinking, the reestablishment of the Davidic kingdom was tied to the Messiah, who was to be a descendant of King David.
It can refer to the full circuit – the seen and unseen halves – of the stars across the dome of the sky, or the vault of heaven (Job 22:14) extending "in a half-circle from horizon to horizon", or a circular observable horizon (cf.
On December 4, 2005, former Prime Minister Iyad Allawi was assaulted by a mob in Najaf, where the Mahdi Army is influential.
Another eminent person attributed to the Waqifites was Yazid ibn Khalifa al-Harithi, who was regarded as one of the companions of Ja'far al-Sadiq (who reportedly praised him).
The city of Shazand is said to contain a cavern system where Kay Khosrow is hidden along with other immortals.
Its long-term aims are to build the third Temple in Jerusalem on the Temple Mount—the site occupied by the Dome of the Rock—and to reinstate korbanot and the other rites described in the Hebrew Bible and Jewish legal literature.
Disraeli, – I am desired by the Queen to reply to your letter of the 14th instant, respecting the appointment of a successor to the late Dr.
but shab barat festival have a long history." Iraq In Iraq, people give children candies as they walk through their neighborhoods.
This enthronement formula (Qal perfect third person masculine singular מָלַךְ [malakh], followed by the name of the king) is used in 2 Samuel 15:10; 1 Kings 1:11, 13, 18; 2 Kings 9:13.
Aftermath The surviving pilgrims were able to eventually reach Karbala after their airfares were paid for by wealthy Shias.
Wrede's broad concept of the Messianic Secret also involved the use of parables by Jesus, and in his criticism Schweitzer called it the weakest element of Wrede's approach.
There is also a 1999 abridged Esperanto translation by Shigeki Maeda, titled Diaj Revelacioj, with a total of 837 numbered paragraphs.
Robert Rozier, a former NFL player and a devotee of Mitchell's, confessed to seven of these murders.
Three years later, he succeeded his brother Maurice, who had died without male heirs, and became the 3rd Earl of Desmond.
Among the ventures were Jolly Makers and Happy Day food canteens, Deluxe bakeries makers of Goodluck bread, the properties housing this venture were then expanded to include barber shops and lodging.
These were particularly prevalent in the fifth century, and continued to appear until the Song dynasty.
As per Chabad-Lubavitch messianism, Menachem Mendel Schneerson openly declared his deceased father-in-law, the former 6th Rebbe of Chabad Lubavitch, to be the Messiah.
In 1860, the Taiping rebels were successful in taking Hangzhou and Suzhou to the east, but failed to take Shanghai, which marked the beginning of the decline of the Kingdom.
During the reign of Amir Timur, a mausoleum for Qutham ibn Abbas was constructed at his grave, adorned with various Arabic inscriptions and Central Asian designs from the Timurid period.
There was another major schism in the movement in 1999, following conflicts after the appointment of Siegfried Bernhardt (né Siegfried Holzapfel) the husband of Claudia-Maria, the daughter of Irmgard Bernhardt's adopted daughter Marga, as leader of the movement by Irmgard at the end of her life.
Most Egyptians hesitated to use the title the group used for itself, Jama'at al-Muslimin meaning "Society of Muslims", as it implied that the group was the society of Muslims, and those not members were not part of Muslim society and not true Muslims.
In the same passage Jesus also selects Peter as the leader of the Apostles, and states: "Upon this rock I will build my church." Most Christian denominations agree that the statement applies to Peter, but they diverge on their interpretations of what happens after Peter.
Kadouri said "It is forbidden to teach a non-Jew Kabbalah, not even Talmud, not even simple Torah;" perhaps referring to pop celebrity Madonna's publicised interest in Kabbalah; he also said that women (even Jewish) are not allowed to study Kabbalah.
In James Crossley and Alastair Lockhart (eds.) Critical Dictionary of Apocalyptic and Millenarian Movements.
These requests are routinely denied, and are followed by petitions to Israel's High Court of Justice.
The conspirators hope the presence of the ghola will weaken Paul's ability to rule by both disconcerting him and appealing to his emotional vulnerability.
The Washington Times In 1982, The Washington Times was founded by News World Communications, an international media conglomerate associated with Moon, which also owned newspapers in South Korea, Japan, and South America, as well as the news agency United Press International.
The museum also has a reconstruction of the 16th century Golden Tea Room, which was made under the supervision of the architect Sutemi Horiguchi, an expert of sukiya architecture.
Leadership vacuum As both the spiritual and political head of the Twelver community, the occultation of the Hidden Imam left a significant gap.
He attended Francisian Classic Gymnasium in Visoko and subsequently studied theology, but never actually became a priest.
They state that during their existence in the spirit world, they continued to grow and learn, and were able to discover a process by which they could return to Earth.
See also Capital punishment in Florida Capital punishment in the United States List of people executed in Florida List of people executed in the United States in 2000 List of people who have claimed to be Jesus Messiah complex References Sources Inmate Release Information Detail – Inmate 094542.
Incident The incident occurred when 38 Shias from a village in Chakwal Tehsil headed into the Arabian Sea led by Naseem Fatima (alternately, Nasreen Fatima).
Full-time workers in North America The highest-achieving full-time workers (workers that raised most funds in the Philippines) were nominated by church personnel to fundraise in North America.
Thomas Mears and William Price were convicted of the murder of the constable's brother, then the rest pleaded guilty.
One rises from Yemen who will not support the promised Mahdi but will fight Sufyani and finally die.
Yet the letter caused confusion as this was a reversal of Soloveichik's previous position on the matter.
He replaced Christmas with a feast day on his birthday (14 January) and claimed to possess an ability to heal cancer and AIDS with a touch from his hand.
Some Latter-day Saint apologists, such as Hugh Nibley, have argued an ancient setting for the Book of Mormon is plausible by speculating ancient identities of figures described in the Book of Mormon.
The group claims that the current currency has become "a slave of the dollar" because it is controlled by the Reserve Bank of India and the government.
He went on to teach Johrei to his followers to allow them to achieve Messianity and spread the teachings across the world.
Shi'ite traditions about the cemetery Shi'ite tradition holds that Abraham bought land in Wadi-us-Salaam, and that Ali had said the Wadi Al-Salaam was a part of heaven.
Public speaking and religious activities In 1969, at the age of 21, Inri began his public life as a self-professed prophet and astrologer, introducing himself as "Iuri de Nostradamus".
One of the earliest versions is De quindecim signis (PL XCIV.555) written in the 8th century by Pseudo-Bede.
The passage's third-person masculine singular nouns and verbs are cited as evidence for this position.
Princess of Rome features as many as 40 characters in the animation, and almost 100 specialists contributed to its production.
The Imperial Gazetteer of India, Baluchistan further records that Zikris regard Koh-e-Murad as their Ka'ba.
The revised version the Church currently uses was not authored by Hubbard, and instructs participants to repeat the same courses in perpetuity, which is the current church policy.
Pei continued to make changes to the design of the galleries during construction as new pieces were acquired for the collection.
Fard Muhammad wrote two manuals, the Secret Ritual of the Nation of Islam and the Teaching for the Lost Found Nation of Islam in a Mathematical Way.
Wright, "Jerusalem in the New Testament" (1994) (Jesus claimed to do and be what the Temple was and did) Ben F.
He was again indicted in South Korea on 28 October 2022 for sexually assaulting two female followers between 2018 and 2022.
In 1929 the society purchased castleside, a large house next to their base, that was being used as a boarding house for schoolboys.
Brighouse was one of the first people to claim to be the "One Mighty and Strong" that Joseph Smith had prophesied of in 1832.
His arrival will mark the end of the Kali Yuga and herald the beginning of the Satya Yuga, the most virtuous age, before the ultimate dissolution of the universe (Mahapralaya).
See also List of messiah claimants List of people claimed to be Jesus List of Seventh-day Adventists Messiah complex Notes References Beck, Richard (2024).
At the same time, Jesus is said to have despised the Romans for their cruelty, and fought them courageously.
On 9 January 2025, Jung Myung-seok was sentenced to 17 years in prison by the Supreme Court of South Korea.
Al-Tayyib is held to have died while still in concealment, but to have had descendants, who have provided a series of hidden imams that continue to the present day.
De los Santos, instead of going to jail, was sent to the National Center for Mental Health since he was thought to be insane; most reports state that he was mauled and killed while in the hospital, while his supporters claim that he died peacefully past 80 years old at Nueva Vizcaya.
Furthermore, the record in controversy was not the original baptism registry but a membership list created by a newly established church starting from 1958.
Certain strands of the Grail Movement consider Abd-ru-shin's wife Maria and her daughter divine as well.
Axelgard calls an "intense prophetic aspect" of the writing, and after citing Zenock and others, Nephi narrates having a spiritual experience.
Despite his defeat at Kufa, volunteers opposed to the Umayyad regime continued to flock to his banner, including remnants of the Kharijites defeated by Caliph Marwan II and some Abbasid followers.
This is a bizarre opinion since the issue of prayer of Jesus behind al-Mahdi has been proven strongly via numerous authentic traditions from the Messenger of Allah, who is the most truthful.
Indeed, the Sasanians had misidentified Zoroaster's era with that of the Seleucids (312 BC), which put Bahram's life almost at the end of Zoroaster's millennium; he was therefore hailed by many as the promised savior Kay Bahram Varjavand.
They are forbidden to read newspaper, watch TV, listen to radio, cut off all contact with the outside world, and children are forbidden to go to school.
The ancient name (2nd century AD-1893AD) of a large area in Central Asia compromising modern-states of Afghanistan, Tajikistan, half of Uzbekistan, parts of Turkmenistan and the eastern part of the modern Iranian state.
The Saint-Jovite community grew rapidly in the first years of the Second Vatican Council, exceeding 300 people in 1966.
For Thomas Aquinas (who also taught the Perfection of Christ), the "'Son of God' is God as known to God".
531–549 Helmut Obst: Apostel und Propheten der Neuzeit – Gründer christlicher Religionsgemeinschaften des 19.
This would affect his career as following his retirement, Botafogo president Charles Borer attempted to convince Rogério to play as a manager for various smaller clubs but he was ultimately uninterested as he had begun getting interested in Messianic philosophy.
The delegation before their departure embraced Islam and renounced Christianity without compunction.
It is the type of religious delusion that is classified as grandiose while the other two categories are persecutory and belittled.
In Brazil Japanese Brazilians are the largest concentration of people of Japanese descent outside Japan.
The Branch Davidians of Waco: The History and Beliefs of an Apocalyptic Sect (Oxford, Oxford University Press, 2006).
Major examples are King Arthur of Britain, Charlemagne of the Franks, and Holy Roman Emperor Frederick Barbarossa, as well as Ogier the Dane and William Tell.
English speakers now often use "Christ" as if it were a name, one part of the name "Jesus Christ", though it was originally a title.
On April 12, 1805, Benjamin Youngs and two companions held the first ceremony west of the Allegheny Mountains.
The connections to the Scottish tradition concerning Thomas the Rhymer's journey to Elphame (Fairyland) and the ballad of Tam Lin have been pointed out, but Francis James Child went so far as to assert these were derivatives of the Ogier romance.
Scholars such as Imam Shafii, Imam Nawawi, Imam Ghazzali, and Imam Suyuti have declared praying acceptable on the night of mid-Shaban.
On 2 December 1950, the UN General Assembly adopted Resolution 390 (V), which ceded the former Italian colony of Eritrea to the Ethiopian Empire.
The movement itself was founded by Koriam Urekit upon his election in 1964, following a prophecy made by the Pomio cult leader Bernard Balatape ('Bernard') the year before.
Iran youth immigration In 1979, during the Iranian Revolution and Iranian hostage crisis, Schneerson directed arrangements to rescue Jewish youth and teenagers from Iran and bring them to safety in the United States.
Mussy denied responsibility for the previous suicide and suicide attempts, and denied that his group would kill themselves, saying that death was not the way out and that Néo-Phare was not a cult.
On 31 August 2012, Moon was transferred to a church-owned hospital near his home in Gapyeong, northeast of Seoul, after suffering multiple organ failure.
Isma'ilism One of the titles of the Ismaili Imam is qa'im, conveying that it is the Imam who ushers in the resurrection (qiyama).
גאולה מרצון - סיפורה של אחת מנשות גואל רצון [Voluntary Redemption - The Story of a Lady Goel Ratzon].
After her marriage and the death of four infant children, Lee thought that God was punishing her for engaging in sexual relations with her husband.
In particular, they argued for the political interests of the Turco-Egyptian government and the British, that his manifestation did not conform with the "time of troubles" "when the land is filled with oppression, tyranny, and enmity".
Among these individuals the Yamani is the closest to guidance, for he calls the people to join Imam al-Mahdi.
They further said that Mussy had never attempted to influence them to do things they did not want to do.
They argue the presence of both unconditional and conditional promises to the house of David would create intense theological dissonance in the Book of Kings.
Another force under Sarames the Elder was also sent to stop Bahram, who defeated him and had him trampled to death by elephants.
In 1995, the Sudanese branch of the group planned to assassinate al-Qaeda-leader Osama bin Laden while he was residing in Sudan because his views were considered to be too liberal.
Finally, he discusses the Imam's birth, those who witnessed him, the signs and reasons for his imamate, as well as the letters and messages issued by him, aiming to provide a strong rebuttal to those who deny occultation.
The High Court, also routinely, permits the group to enter the site, but not to pray there; and such permit is contingent on the Israeli police concluding that the security situation would allow such entry.
Muslim holiday celebrations have been called Kandil (Arabic: qindīl, oil lamp) since Sultan Selim II of the Ottoman Empire after burning lamps to light up minarets on the occasion of special blessed nights.
In August 2017, two Zikri pilgrims were killed and two were wounded when a bomb detonated in the Kamp Tal area of Pangjur, Balochistan.
Rua insisted that his people boycott military service, arguing it was immoral to fight for a Pākehā King and Country given the injustice meted out on Māori under the British crown.
Nero's death was a surprise to many, and he was rather young at the time, 31 years old, so if he had somehow lived, suggesting he might still be a relevant force in the 70s and 80s AD was not unreasonable.
Mary of Laon" (De miraculis sanctae Mariae Laudunensis), written by a French cleric and chronicler named Hériman of Tournai in c.
Significance and traditions To pray for the dead and ask God for the forgiveness of the dead is a common ceremony in all cities that hold Barat ceremonies.
Starting in 2001, the group began efforts to proselytize online by creating websites which host church scripture in various languages, links to group chats, and news about online events.
Led by Dia Abdul Zahra Kadim, who was killed in the battle, the Soldiers of Heaven were accused of trying to start a "messianic insurrection" at the holy city of Najaf during the event of Ashura.
On 8 September 2014, Tel Aviv-Yafo District Court convicted Ratzon of most of the sexual assaults with which he had been charged, but acquitted of the slavery charge.
In April 2010 it was reported that Tari again attempted escape from custody but was caught quickly afterwards.
Ahead of their Time Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine www.jamaicans.com References Sources Jack A.
Those who did survive were arrested for attempting to leave Pakistan without proper travel documents.
In 2004, he told The Independent: Religious wars are back in fashion, and the main problem is that I don't empathise with religious sentiment.
Of course Ching Hai herself uses 24 hour satellite TV programming to reach out to potential new recruits.
Rabbi Michael Samuel of Temple Beth Sholom in Chula Vista, California, opined: "Lubavitchers do not want to know anything about Jesus." Boteach, for his part, said: "We are the People of the Book.
It was centered in Northeast China and established its own state within a state commune network called the Stone Kingdom until its abolition in 1999.
By 1891, after a prolonged struggle, the Kalifa Abdallahi ibn Muhammad emerged as sole leader due to support from the nomadic Baggara Arabs of the west.
According to the autopsy report, Habe's throat had been slashed and she had received numerous knife wounds to the chest.
The World Elijah Evangelical Mission (now known as Elijah's Ten Commandments Stone Country Korean Farmers) was a religious group founded in 1980 by a Chinese Korean man named Park Myung Hoo (朴鳴呼), with five levels of membership: God, Angel, General Secretary, Chief, and Director.
Soshiant (Avestan: 𐬯𐬀𐬊𐬳𐬌𐬌𐬀𐬧𐬝 saoš́iiaṇt̰) is an Avestan-language term that literally means "one who brings benefit", and which is used in several different ways in Zoroastrian scripture and tradition.
88, during the reign of Emperor Domitian), there was possibly a third pretender, although some historians speculate he may have been the same Pseudo-Nero as in 79 AD.
Although the Taghlib tribe under Hudhayl ibn 'Imran pledged their allegiance and abandoned Christianity, the majority of the Banu Tamim clans rejected her call, which made Sajah give up hope of getting the support from the majority of her own kinsmen.
Early life and education The middle son of three boys, Icke was born in Leicester General Hospital to Beric Vaughan Icke and Barbara J.
Because of the Arian domination of some of the Roman Empire by barbarian tribes, the bishop of Rome could not fully exercise such authority.
In Chapter 4 Sariel changes the name of Jacob to Israel in order to have it "to be similar to his own name".
Seyed Khorasani (Arabic: ٱلسَّيِّد ٱلْخُرَاسَانِي, romanized: As-Sayyid Al-Khurāsānī) is an Islamic leader whose rising is an essential part of Islamic eschatology.
Conspiracy theorists in Australia linked smart city technologies to an agenda to create a one world government and install "big brother" technology to control the community.
He founded the International Peace Mission movement, formed its doctrine and oversaw its growth from a small and predominantly black congregation into a multiracial and international church.
Rejection of worldly pleasures and self-flagellation were, according to him, the only way to reconcile oneself with God.
Personal life Torop repudiated his first wife and married a nineteen-year-old who had lived with him since she was seven.
It is regarded as a night in which the fortunes of individuals for the coming year are decided and Allah may forgive sinners.
Navy from 1942 to 1969, attaining the rank of lieutenant commander, and participated in World War II, the Korean War, and the Vietnam War.
941) in his Kafi fi elm al-din refers to written decrees from the Hidden Imam to some pious men, including the first two agents.
External links Pieces with text from Psalm 110: Scores at the International Music Score Library Project Psalm 110: Free scores at the Choral Public Domain Library (ChoralWiki) A psalm of David.
Not even after 2003 or 2006 [the height of Iraq's civil war]." Important monuments Tombs of the Grand Ayatollahs The Grand Ayatollah, Muhammad Baqir al-Sadr, is buried in this cemetery.
Some time after their arrival in the Promised Land, Laman and Lemuel once again try to kill Nephi and he flees with several members of the family.
Lapiang Malaya massacre In May 1967, de los Santos publicly demanded that Marcos step down and surrender the Presidency to the Lapiang Malaya.
A British view of Abd al-Rahman at this time was given by Sir Stewart Symes, writing in April 1935, "He has the defects of a Sudanese of his type, the liking of intrigue, vanity, irrelevance and opportunism.
Career Kincannon briefly held the position of executive director of the South Carolina Republican Party, resigning after three months.
Watson then cleaned off the bayonet and showered, while Krenwinkel wrote "Rise" and "Death to pigs" on the walls and "Healter [sic] Skelter" on the refrigerator door, all in LaBianca's blood.
Rua, flanked by some of his wives and supporters while seated on a chair that had been borrowed from the pub, acknowledged Joseph Ward approaching.
After college, Hanna moved to Los Angeles, California, to work with internet media company BuzzFeed but eventually left to focus on her YouTube and Vine platforms.
He described himself as a mercenary with no political orientation, although he is known to have been a member of the Turkist far-right organisation Grey Wolves, as well as the state-sponsored Counter-Guerrilla.
Five people survived by spitting out gruel when Butaog was not looking, and later pretended to be dead in their homes.
Farrakhan's Nation expanded its international network by building links in Africa, seeking a closer relationship with Muslims globally, and opening its first British mosques in the 1990s.
In stanzas 128 and 129 of Yasht 13, the following explanation of the word's etymology is given: "we worship the frawaṣ̌i of righteous Astwat̰-ərəta, who will be the Victorious Saošyant by name ...
Once installed at St Jude's, M‘Neile's eloquence attracted the attention of the Bishop of Chester – John Sumner (1780–1862), later Archbishop of Canterbury – who appointed him as an honorary canon of his cathedral.
Sergey Torop (born 1961), who started to call himself "Vissarion", founder of the Church of the Last Testament and the spiritual community Ecopolis Tiberkul in Southern Siberia.
His prophetic sayings (nga kupu whakari) gave meaning to a harsh existence, and offered hope to the future.
In 1901 Ruel Clement contracted typhoid and died without taking medicine or seeing a doctor, believing his faith would cure him.
Other scholars instead have suggested that the name of the Bana'im is derived from the Greek word for "bath".
The landmark gained international fame as the "distinctive, lopsided peak" featured at the beginning and end of the 1965 movie The Sound of Music, although the filming was done on the German side, not the Austrian side.
He removed the explicit statement of the claim from the 1937 and later editions, but it still is the meaning for the Message of the Grail that Abd-ru-shin is the apocalyptic Son of Man.
In 1972, Moon founded the International Conference on the Unity of the Sciences, a series of scientific conferences.
Evans became interested in the multifarious sects that flourished under the new liberty of Charles I's reign, opposing most of them, especially the tenets of the Fifth Monarchist.
In February 2007, Raël, who wanted to start commercial activities with Swiss vintners, was denied residence in the Swiss Canton Valais, in part because he was feared to be endangering public values by promoting sexual liberty and the education of children on how to obtain sexual pleasure.
On December 18, COMELEC dismissed the disqualification case against Quiboloy, citing insufficient and incorrect evidence.
After a number of deaths in their community including their founder they also allowed for the possibility that they would die and go to join immortal beings on Uranus until the return of Christ.
John Skinner, in the Cambridge Bible for Schools and Colleges, considers it is "difficult to decide" whether the words in verse 9 are addressed to the Lord "by the prophet himself, or by the community of true Israelites".
Details about his birth, as well as his whereabouts following his mysterious disappearance, are apocryphal.
Virgil] foretold [the future coming Christ] according to the verses of the Cumaean Sibyl" (that is, the priestess presiding over the Apollonian oracle at Cumae).
In January 2001, Mussy, with 20 followers, formed Néo-Phare; most members were between the ages of 30 and 40, and largely couples with some children.
Through Rotterdam and London, marble shipping was directed toward the East and West Indies and exported at the rate of 60,000 to 80,000 (and sometimes as high as 100,000) pounds per year.
Through his death, resurrection, and ascension the Son is glorified by the Father (John 17:1–24), but it is not a glory that is thereby essentially enhanced.
He held the belief that at least parts of the Bible were antiheterosexual, such as his interpretation of the book of Genesis.
London: Oxford University Press Further reading Vagabonds All by His Honour Judge Edward Abbott Parry, published by Charles Scribner's Sons in 1926, 264p.
Members of Sanders' family and Memphis' African-American community disputed the MPD's version of events.
The accounts are generally considered to be independent events, though often been conflated—a result being the assumption that Mary is a prostitute.
Imam as-Sadiq was reported saying: Coming out of three groups "Sufyani, Khorasani and Yamani" will be in: a year, a month, and a day.
Traditions and memorials The traditions related to King Matjaž have a significant role in the Slovenian Carinthia, particularly the Črna Valley, where a competition in building snow castles as well as visual art and literary writing related to King Matjaž has taken place every January since 1993.
The world economic system would have been altered to encourage every nation to be self-sufficient, based on agriculture.
End of the 15th century At the end of the 15th century, the emergence of the idea that Moscow is truly a new Rome can be found; the whole idea of Moscow as Third Rome could be traced as early as 1492, when Metropolitan of Moscow Zosimus expressed it.
African tenants also had to follow strict regulations, and were prohibited from acquiring timber or hunting animals.
Pope Zachary was pressed into action by the final Lombard campaign against the exarchate of Ravenna, whose fall in mid-751 sealed the end of Byzantine rule in Central Italy.
Shach objected to Schneerson's calling upon the Messiah to appear and eventually called for a boycott of Chabad and its institutions.
Following the arrival of European colonists, Tolai people had favourable access to Western education and government, enabling further exploitation of the neighbouring Baining.
In 1806, a Shaker village, named Watervliet after the New York town that was the site of the first Shaker settlement, was established in what is today Kettering, Ohio, surviving until 1900 when its remaining adherents joined the Union Village Shaker settlement.
According to American anthropologist Felix Moos, Park felt discriminated against in Japan as a Korean, which explains why he maintained a strong anti-Japanese orientation in later life.
cell, Debra Dobkowski, and spent 16 months in prison before his conviction was overturned on appeal.
Abdul-Zahra Kadim dispatched a three-man assassination squad to a hotel where senior Shia spiritual leader Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani had his office with plans to attack the office.
Millenarianist movements can be secular (not espousing a particular religion) or religious in nature, and are therefore not necessarily linked to millennialist movements in Christianity.
Attempted coup and era of decolonization Selassie contributed Ethiopian troops to the United Nations Operation in the Congo peacekeeping force during the 1960 Congo Crisis, per United Nations Security Council Resolution 143.
Sun Yat-sen came from the same area as Hong and was said to have identified with Hong since his childhood days.
Its members are presented as guardians and guides of Earth's total evolutionary process, known in Theosophical cosmology as the doctrine of Planetary Rounds.
During the trials, some of the disciples testified against Asahara, and he was found guilty on 13 of 17 charges, including the Sakamoto family murder; four charges were dropped.
After being promoted he fought a long, indecisive campaign in 572–591 against the Byzantines in northern Mesopotamia.
Government action against Raël In response to Raël's association with Clonaid, South Korean immigration authorities at the airport denied him entry into their country in 2003.
2018: Inside the Manson Cult: The Lost Tapes, narrated by Liev Schreiber, looks inside the Manson Family.
The spelling Christ in English became standardized in the 18th century, when, in the spirit of the Enlightenment, certain words' spelling changed to fit their Greek or Latin origins.
On a 2018 interview on Genius' Verified, she sang her song "Monster" a cappella but due to technical errors, the microphone was unable to record her voice properly.
The first rape/murder accusation against Tari involves the fate of Rita Herman, who joined the cult at age 13 as a personal "flower girl" of the self-styled messiah.
Police concerns The camp site, Jawahar Bagh is between the office of the Mathura Superintendent of Police and the Tehsil office.
In London, he made vain efforts to warn King Charles I of perceived dangers but succeeded in telling the Earl of Essex to his face of his future promotions.
Between the years 1998–2004, the messianists have garnered support from rabbis to issue a rabbinic ruling supporting their messianic claims.
Regardless, Hormizd could not tolerate the rising fame of Bahram, and thus had him disgraced and removed from the Sasanian office for supposedly having kept some of the booty for himself.
The Ofudesaki (おふでさき or 御筆先, "Tip of the Writing Brush") is the most important scripture in Tenrikyo.
The group was founded and led by Cho in 1981 in Bucheon, Gyeonggi as "Yeongsaeng-gyo The Lord's Crusade Victory Altar" (영생교 하나님의 성회 승리제단).
The final arguments from Jung Myung-seok's side, along with the court's ruling, are expected to take place during the appellate trial on 6 September.
This event, involving members of the Shia community, resulted in 18 casualties and a similar number of injuries.
Julian Bolton, a Shelby County Commissioner at the time, criticized the police response as excessive, as he felt that not everyone in the house was responsible for Hester's death.
The letter, said to have been written by al-Mahdi, stipulated thatAs for the events which may occur [in future when you may need guidance in religious matters] refer to the transmitters (ruwat) of our sayings (hadith) who are my hujja (lit.
Terminology Wikalah is an Arabic word describing a person who performs duties on behalf of someone else.
Incorporating conspiracy beliefs, Hashem asserts that figures like Zeus, Confucius, and Alexander the Great were divine messengers.
And his family, and make him, O God, among those whom You have protected from the wrath of the aggressors.
Komisar added that at the scene of the Mercedes-Benz crash where Çatlı died, he was found with a passport under the name of "Mehmet Özbay" — an alias also used by Ağca.
It has been assumed that the legend was the basis for the name of the 1573 peasants' revolt leader Matija Gubec, actually named Ambrož Gubec.
The word of dua is derived from an Arabic word which means “summon” or “call out”, while Faraj means emancipation of sorrow, and opening (or improvement in the works/affairs).
DIY Arri Alexa 65 camera was used to shoot the film, thus making it the first Indian film to use this technology.
The allegation involved Miller barging into the couple's bedroom and threatening "I will bury you and your slut wife." Soon after, Miller fled Hilo with a friend to stay in Volcano, Hawaii.
The story says that the ghosts are trapped inside the Ålleberg mountain, waiting for a new war to wake them up so they can fight to save the country.
External links Jewish Isaiah 51 Hebrew with Parallel English Christian Isaiah 51 English Translation with Parallel Latin Vulgate Archived 2016-07-04 at the Wayback Machine
79–80 Darras, Joseph Éphiphane (1866), A General History of the Catholic Church: From the Commencement of the Christian Era until the Present Time, Vol.
“Swallowing the land of Bayda”), in Islamic eschatology, is a future event in which the Earth will swallow up Bayda, a desert area between Mecca and Medina.
The NOI claims that most enslaved blacks forgot their true names, their Arabic language, and their Muslim identity, instead embracing Christianity, which the Nation labels "white man's religion".
Sachedina holds that this later stress of the Twelver literature on the four deputies (al-nuwwab al-arba') was likely due to their prominence in Baghdad, the Shia center of the time.
Other members of the Society and the Order supported his new direction and opposed the critical views expressed by Theosophical leaders.
However, the assassination attempt failed, and he was captured and imprisoned by the Italian police.
Any statements in that letter which imply an endorsement of their view were not shown to me at the time I signed and I once again repudiate any such ridiculous claim.
After the Battle of Yamama, where Musaylima was killed, sources mention that Sajah converted to Islam after giving up her claim of prophethood and died after 661 during the reign of Mu'awiya I.
Francisco de Jesus Fernandes (21 August 1946 – 14 April 2010), better known as Chiquinho Pastor, was a Brazilian professional footballer who played as a centre-back.
He received the nickname "Pastor" because he was a reverend of the World Messianic Church of Brazil (IMMB).
Ecumenical meetings among different denominations have taken place regarding these interpretations, but no final agreement has emerged.
He himself often claimed to be a former member of Croatian elite counter-terrorist unit ATJ Lučko, but unit's members publicly refuted these claims, even saying that Pavlović embarrasses them.
Its first usage is obviously important in establishing the sense in which we are to understand it, and here it is clear that the community of Israel/Jacob is so described." Text The original text was written in Hebrew language.
According to Vincent Bugliosi it was to make sure Manson's address did not violate the California Supreme Court's decision in People v.
He envisioned himself as the Messiah son of Joseph, destined to die in battle, after which the Messiah son of David would appear.
In Baltistan and Ladakh The Noorbakshia order persists in Baltistan and Kargil (in Ladakh) as a distinct sect with its own unique doctrinal blend encompassing elements of Shi'a and Sunni Islam.
He preached that Jesus was black and that "white devils" temporarily rule over black people, and was seen as teaching hate.
Verse 6 The multitude of camels shall cover your land, The dromedaries of Midian and Ephah; All those from Sheba shall come; They shall bring gold and incense, And they shall proclaim the praises of the Lord.
In its adjacent areas are the Sri Sathya Sai General and Super Specialty Hospital (Whitefield), Sri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Medical Sciences, Sai Central Trust and an old age home, Sri Sathya Sai Vriddhashram.
This relationship was established through the Kingdom of Hira, which was an extension of the Persian Empire.
Regino reports that there were groups of women who believed that they could go on night journeys where they would fly across the sky to meet Diana and her train.
Upon the orders of Said ibn Uthman, Qutham ibn Abbas remained in Samarkand and engaged in propagating and spreading Islam, as well as implementing Sharia rules in the city, through several wars.
Her parents, Chase Iron Eyes and Sara Jumping Eagle, said they requested the court order because of Miller's use of "violence, intimidation, threat of violence, fear, paranoia, delusions, and drugs" to hold sway over their child.
On 13 March 1884 the tribes north of Khartoum declared for the Mahdi, cutting the telegraph and blocking river traffic.
The Arrivals documentary In his earlier years, Abdullah was involved with the internet Islamic conspiracy documentary The Arrivals (2008).
She was eventually dismissed because a footman whose attentions she rejected claimed that she was "growing mad".
So far, more than 400 have been explored—including the Schellenberg Ice Cave at an elevation of 1,570 m (5,150 ft), a show cave since 1925, and the Kolowrat Cave with a 300 m (980 ft) high dome.
During the course of editing the manuscript, Onisaburo Deguchi altered some of the meanings of the original text, since he and Nao Deguchi had differing beliefs.
The first of his three Detroit parsonages was a three-story, multiroom mansion at 246 Ferry Avenue and was described as "luxurious" in an article in The Detroit News of July 2, 1944.
Although the Almohad movement itself was founded by Ibn Tumart, after his death the second ruler Abd al-Mu'min was elected in 1133 by the Masmuda Shaykhs the leading authority of the state the councils of 10 and 50.
Success and controversies Although the exact number of followers he gathered is a matter of controversy, Park’s became one of the largest new religious movements in Korea, with perhaps two million members in the mid-1960s.
For the 1971 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A, Rogério would be transferred to play for Santos as a part the club receiving Carlos Alberto in a loan alongside Fernando Ferretti and Moreira.
After Ahn Sahng-hong's death, the World Mission Society Church of God declared him as the Second Coming Christ.
External links Sekai Kyusei Kyo IZUNOME Miroku Association USA Izunome Association Canada Igreja Messianica Mundial do Brasil Guarapiranga Sacred Grounds - Sao Paulo, Brazil Archived 2022-06-16 at the Wayback Machine Shumei
Early legends Nero's death was followed by upheaval and chaos in the Year of the Four Emperors (69 AD).
They further noted that, of the small proportion of tourists alleged to have exhibited spontaneous psychosis after arrival in Jerusalem, Bar-El et al.
Teachings Ben Ammi claimed that he and the Black Hebrews from the original Liberian settlement were not Jews but Hebrews, the true descendants of the ancient Israelites.
Wells's books were influential in giving a second meaning to the term "new world order", which would only be used by state socialist supporters and anti-communist opponents.
A core doctrine in some variations of Christian eschatology is the expectation that the Second Coming is very near and that there will be an establishment of a Kingdom of God on Earth.
This version was taken up and reshaped by the Irish, after which it became a source for many European visions of the "end of days".
Al-Shaykh al-Saduq has narrated --from Ja'far al-Sadiq-- that: five signs are decisive before the rising of Qa'im (قائم): Yamani, Sufyani, Heavenly cry (calling) from the sky, The murder of Nafs-e-Zakiyyah and Khasf al-Bayda.
After many setbacks in life and in a search for meaning, Okada became a member of Oomoto, one of Japan's new religions that was preparing for the New Age of Light, where he practiced a traditional hands-on, massage style Shinto-based purifying therapy.
Verse 1 Listen, O isles, unto me; and hearken, ye people, from far; The LORD hath called me from the womb; from the bowels of my mother hath he made mention of my name.
Significant pockets of adherents continue to exist, particularly with many residing in Baltistan, and in villages scattered throughout Kargil and the Nubra Valley in Ladakh.
In late 2004, Kaduri said "Great tragedies in the world are foreseen" two weeks before the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami; reporter Baruch Gordon of Arutz Sheva connected the two by saying Kaduri predicted the tragedy.
For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work, but only until the one who now restrains it is removed.
He then turned to the study of acupuncture and traditional Chinese medicine, which were common careers for the blind in Japan, and he established a Chinese medicine shop outside Tokyo.
By April 1884, Gordon had managed to evacuate some 2,500 of the foreign population who had been able to make the trek northwards.
He also played for Flamengo, where he made 112 appearances and won two more titles, and for Grêmio in 1974, playing 27 matches.
There are criticisms that this is unfair as equal reporting opportunities were not provided to mainstream Christian media.
Most of the major branches of Western Christianity and Eastern Orthodoxy subscribe to this formulation, while many branches of Oriental Orthodox Churches reject it, subscribing to miaphysitism.
By the end of the 1920s Bernhardt had managed to attract a following of several thousand people, primarily Germans, Austrians, Swiss and Czechs.
Jamaican labourers were subjected to harsh working conditions, before being boarded up at night in shoddy, disease-ridden shacks.
Among the first accounts of him describe events in the late 9th Hijri, the Year of Delegations, when he accompanied a delegation of his tribe to Medina.
Although Gong did not initially recognize the sexual exploitation due to the church's teachings and Lee's authority, she came to realize the abuse after leaving the organization in 2022, leading her to file the lawsuit.
As centuries went by and more political ruptures occurred, the idea of institutional continuity became increasingly debatable.
Police also uncovered some planning documents authored by the attacker dated back to 2018 revealing a desire to attack MUI and several other government officials if his demands were not fulfilled.
Kincannon then transferred to Erskine College, and graduated with 3 bachelor's degrees in Chemistry, Physics, and Mathematics in 2002.
Uroš was weak and unable to counteract these separatist tendencies, becoming an inferior power in his own domain.
Tabatabai suggests that these restrictions were placed on al-Askari because the caliphate had come to know about traditions among the Shia elite, predicting that the eleventh Imam would father the eschatological Mahdi.
On 5 May 2023, the coroner reported that the perpetrator suffered a massive heart attack after the attack, which contributed to his death.
In Isaiah 36:6, Sennacherib, king of Assyria, had referred to Egypt as a "broken reed", criticising Israel's dependence on Egypt during the reign of king Hezekiah.
Rhetoric A constant barrage of rhetoric rivets media attention while obscuring actions such as neoliberal deregulation.
He is currently said to be living in secret in London; promoted by New Age activist Benjamin Creme and his organization, Share International (See Maitreya (Benjamin Creme)).
Therefore, from the early Middle Ages, Psalm 110 (109 in the Septuagint numbering, beginning in Latin Dixit Dominus) has traditionally been recited at the beginning of vespers on every Sunday.
M‘Neile's father owned considerable property (including the large farm at Collier's Hall), was a Justice of the Peace and served as the High Sheriff of the County of Antrim.
In September 2014, Tel Aviv-Yafo District Court convicted Ratzon of rape, fraud and other offences against his wives and daughters.
Alexander Zaitchik from the Southern Poverty Law Center wrote a report titled "'Patriot' Paranoia: A Look at the Top Ten Conspiracy Theories", in which he personally condemns such conspiracies as an effort of the radical right to undermine society.
The messiah complex is a mental state in which a person believes they are a messiah or prophet and will save or redeem people in a religious endeavour.
He had calculated the date from a study of the Book of Revelation, the prophecies of Hildegard of Bingen, the Sibyl, and other sources.
The voice from heaven (Arabic: صوت من السماء), according to Shia Islamic eschatology, will be words spoken by Gabriel (Jibrael), which is one of the signs of Mahdi's appearance.
Disciples of Christ found Peoples Temple to be "an exemplary Christian ministry overcoming human differences and dedicated to human services." Peoples Temple contributed $1.1 million ($5,694,509 in 2024) dollars to the denomination between 1966 and 1977.
Visitations The Twelvers believe that the primordial light of the prophethood has continued to shine through the ages in the character of the Imams.
Copies of the Ofudesaki and the Osashizu (Divine Directions) were recalled from local churches, and the Ofudesaki was not allowed to be preached until the end of World War II.
Cultural impact The drum has become an icon of English folklore with its variation of the classic king asleep in mountain story.
His teaching style has been described as "frank, direct, and even blunt." At the same time, Rees suggests that Nephi may have drawn inspiration for his writing style from passages found in the brass plates.
He also claimed that Israeli Jews and Palestinian Arabs had an erroneous tradition of descent from Isaac and Ishmael, respectively, and that they were instead descended from European Crusaders.
What is known for certain is that Creffield first appeared in Seattle by 1899, and he quickly became involved in the Salvation Army.
Bayda means a desert without water and grass, and as an expression it is the name of a vast desert that is located to the 9 kilometer to the southwest of Medina and after Dhu al-Halifa; it likewise has been divided in two southern and northern parts through the way of Medina to Jeddah and Mecca.
Eventually, Ahura Mazda will triumph, and his agent Saoshyant will resurrect the dead, whose bodies will be restored to eternal perfection, and whose souls will be cleansed and reunited with God.
Four major religions ranked by the number of followers are Seicho-no-Ie, Messianity, Sukyo Mahikari, and PL Kyodan.
Natural Farming Another Japanese farmer and philosopher, Masanobu Fukuoka, conceived of an alternative farming system in the 1930s separately from Okada and used the same Japanese characters to describe it.
Muhammad Nurbakhsh Qahistani, a Sufi master of the 15th century, has received relatively little attention from researchers despite his significant influence.
There are records of numerous incidents when local villages and clans, as well as groups of pirates and bandits, came into conflict with the authorities, and responded by fleeing to join Hong's movement.
Jewish–Christian relations Before 1000 The earliest known example of a Jew and a Christian debating the meaning of Isaiah 53 is the example from 248 cited by Origen.
KJC members protested at the raid and expressed shock at the presence of "the police and military in full battle gear".
This widespread support affirmed that the Mahdist Revolution was a national rather than regional revolution.
Largey, Dennis L.; Arnold, Marilyn; Ball, Terry B.; Dahl, Larry E.; Parry, Donald W.; Seely, David R.; Williams, Clyde J., eds.
The Chaubis Avatar (24 incarnations) section mentions Sage Matsyanra describing the appearance of Vishnu incarnations to fight evil, greed, violence and ignorance.
Records of these investigations were published in Theosophical magazines starting April 1910, and in a book in 1913.
History Shia imams frequently had to deal with persecution and sometimes - in order to protect themselves - resorted to the practice of taqiya, a form of religious dissimulation.
2017 In 2017 presidential election, Ahmdinejad who backed Hamid Baghaei, registered as a candidate along with him, but both were disqualified.
According to MFI's website, Shahi claimed to be Awaited Messiah, but not the second coming of Jesus and claim that Jesus has also returned to support the Shahi.
Religious delusion The term messiah complex is not addressed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM), as it is not a clinical term nor diagnosable disorder.
In Shia Islam, Hassani (Arabic/Persian: سید حسني), is a Sayyid (young man) whose rising is predicted to be among the signs of the reappearance of al-Mahdi.
Prior to the battle, members of the group were settled with their families at a "camp in Zarga, north of Najaf", where "the main part" of the fighting took place.
We do actually need this divine porn star to come down and teach us what it means to be human again...
Okada valued art as a way to keep the spirits lifted and clear the viewer's spirit through appreciation of beauty.
See also Shincheonji Church of Jesus Unification Church Good News Mission Manmin Central Church Providence (religious movement) Evangelical Baptist Church of Korea References External links Official website Official Website (Korean)
He and his followers linked the death of King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia to a widely circulated Shīa prophecy predicting the emergence of Imam al-Mahdī after the death of a king of Hejaz named "Abdullah".
Literary analysis The motif in the Ogier romance of "life inseparably tied with firebrand", i.e., motif-index "E 765.1.1 life bound up with candle"; or "765.1.2 (torch)" is paralleled by the Norse "Tale of Nornagest".
His first season with Flamengo would see him win the 1972 Campeonato Carioca and by the time of the end of his tenure for the club, he would make 117 appearances along with 7 goals being scored.
Early life and education Hong Xiuquan, born "Hong Huoxiu", was the third and youngest son of a Hakka family living in the village of Fuyuan Springs (also referred to as Fuyuanshui village), Hua county (now part of Huadu District) in Guangzhou.
The highest peak of the table-top mountain is the Berchtesgaden Hochthron at 1,973 metres (6,473 ft).
Blavatsky had stated that certain members of the hierarchy, often called "the Masters" or "the Mahātmās" in Theosophical literature, were the ultimate guides of the Theosophical Society.
However, the neighboring locals reported that the attacker often claimed to his neighbors that he was a prophet.
Skinner presents verses 9-10 as a prayer for divine intervention and verses 12-16 as "the divine answer to this prayer".
Voice of Satan At the end of the day of heavenly voice, the voice of Satan will aim at persuading others in not following Muhammad al-Mahdi.
See also List of people claimed to be Jesus References External links The Bloody Vision of John Farley by Arise Evans at the Ex-Classics Web Site "Evans, Arise" .
This is generally translated in English as "Natural Farming" although agriculture researcher Hu-lian Xu claims that "nature farming" is the correct literal translation of the Japanese term.
On a Sunday afternoon, the United Brethren minister John Crum was preaching to a large congregation when a voice shouted "Salvation" followed by a strange sound, similar to the snort of a horse.
Twelver belief in occultation entails that the life of Muhammad al-Mahdi has been miraculously prolonged, arguing that the earth cannot be void of the Imam as the highest proof of God.
His concept was both religious and political, a mix of Christian eschatology like Augustine's De civitate Dei ("City of God") and conservative collectivism.
Members get together weekly (but not on a fixed day of the week) in what they call "fellowship meetings," in private homes in China and in "community houses," sometimes called "churches," abroad.
Led by Lin Qing (林清; 1770–1813) and Li Wencheng, the revolt occurred in the Zhili, Shandong, and Henan provinces of China.
His father Tumart ibn Nitawas or ibn Titawin belonged to the Hargha and his mother Umm al-Husayn bint Waburkan al-Masakkali to the Masakkala, both of which are divisions of the Masmuda tribal confederation.
A Mexican movie was made entitled "Tragedia en Waco" or "Tragedia: Sucedio en Monte Carmelo Waco Texas", 1993, written by Ulf Kjell Gür.
The Alid's forces were utterly defeated at Marw al-Shadhan in 747, and his rule over Persia collapsed.
The Banu Hanifa were a monotheist branch of Banu Bakr and led an independent existence prior to Islam.
However, Trump went on to win the 2024 United States presidential election with victories in all seven crucial swing states.
For the next eight years, the Almohad revolt was largely confined to an irresolute guerilla war through the ravines and peaks of the Atlas range.
He hoped that one in particular Rabbi Saadia ben Yitzchak Sanalmapi who he dedicated the work to would forgive him.
See also List of messiah claimants Messiah complex References Bibliography Kurt Hutten: Seher - Grübler - Enthusiasten.
Similarly, 'Ogier the Dane' is the archetypal name used to signify Danish invaders who have overrun Sussex in Rudyard Kipling's poem "The Land" (1916).
Before her death, Chani gives birth to twins who, like Alia, have full access to both their male and female ancestral memories.
Christians believe that Jesus is the messiah foretold in the Hebrew Bible and the Christian Old Testament.
Hussain said: "Gradually the leadership of the Wikalah became the only authority which could determine and prove the legitimacy of the new Imam." For example, the ninth Imam, al‑Jawad said to the head of his deputies about installing Al-Hadi as next Imam.
He is believed to manifest at the end of world cycles to rescue the chosen people, and would be distinguished by certain signs including talismans, practices, and virtues.
The escalating claims of spiritual success and the internal (and hidden from the public) Theosophical politics alienated the increasingly disillusioned Krishnamurti.
The offices of the district magistrate, the Mathura district court, the police control room, the reserve police line and Mathura Jail are nearby.
Her difficult pregnancies and the loss of four children were traumatic experiences that contributed to Lee's dislike of sexual relations.
See also All flesh is grass Christian messianic prophecies John the Baptist Messianic prophecies of Jesus Related Bible parts: Exodus 19, Jeremiah 23, Matthew 3, Mark 1, Luke 3, John 1, Romans 11, 1 Peter 1, 1 Peter 5 Notes References Sources Brown, Francis; Briggs, Charles A.; Driver, S.
One of the better-known uses of this motif is by Mike Barr and Brian Bolland, who has Arthur and his knights returning in the year 3000 to save the Earth from an alien invasion in the comic book series Camelot 3000 (1982–85).
In the Kanchipuram temple, two relief Puranic panels depict Kalki, one relating to lunar (moon-based) dynasty as mother of Kalki and another to solar (sun-based) dynasty as father of Kalki.
These are: The Torah, the Land of Israel and the World To Come." Sotah 14a in the Babylonian Talmud associates Isaiah 53:12 with Moses and Jerusalem Talmud Shekalim 5:1 applies this verse to Rabbi Akiva, because they were amongst the transgressors and both stood up for the nation of Israel.
Following the Expulsion of Jews from Spain in 1492 many Spanish rabbis, such as Abraham ben Eliezer Halevi, believed that the year 1524 would be the beginning of the Messianic Age and that the Messiah himself would appear in 1530–31.
Butaog decided to commit the massacre after failing to turn dry leaves from a tree into money, leading some of his followers to lose faith in him.
Its members had access to occult instruction and more detailed knowledge of the society's inner order and mission and its reputed hidden guides.
Time Though the voice from heaven is claimed as a confirmed sign, but there is a discrepancy in the event time.
A 5-volume edition was published in 1968, and a 7-volume edition was published by Tenseisha (天声社), Oomoto's publishing house, in 1983.
Instead, Wainwright declares he is "Rufus the Baptist", referring to John the Baptist, and sings: "I won't be the one/Baptised in cum".
Although Maitreya Buddha appears in the canonical literature shared by many sects of Buddhism, Buddhists in different historical contexts have conceived of Maitreya Buddha in different ways.
This begins with: Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jonah: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father who is in heaven.
In 1942, Schneerson launched the Merkos Shlichus program, where he would send pairs of yeshiva students to remote locations across the country during their summer vacations to teach Jews in isolated communities about their heritage and offer education to their children.
Other views Traditional Christian Traditional Christians do not believe in the concept of the Messiah ben Joseph or that Jesus Christ was descended from the tribe of Joseph.
In 2014, the Swadheen Bharat began a march from Sagar, Madhya Pradesh to Delhi in support of their demands.
In most millenarian scenarios, the disaster or battle to come will be followed by a new, purified world in which the believers will be rewarded.
And concerning that which He said, In [this] year of Jubilee [each of you shall return to his property (Lev.
On 15 September, after a funeral service attended by tens of thousands of Unification Church followers, Moon was buried at a church-owned mansion in Gapyeong.
Police then discovered the body of Hester, who had been beaten and stabbed to death several hours earlier.
"Spirit of the Lord": can also rendered as "wind of Jehovah" (Psalm 103:16) or may refer to the "withering east wind of those countries sent by Jehovah" (Jonah 4:8).
Career and poetry According to Alfred Webb: [He was] surnamed 'Gerald the Poet', [and] succeeded to the estates and honours of the family.
In the Sefer Zerubbabel, Menahem is Menahem ben Ammiel, and his mother is Hephzibah, the same name as the wife of Hezekiah and mother of Manasseh.
Organization operations The Temple Mount Faithful functions as a protest movement, but, unlike some other radical Jewish groups, it attempts to operate within Israeli law.
The group was formed by a breakaway group of the followers of the religious leader Jai Gurudev, who died in 2012.
Collection The collection covers a wide range of Japanese paintings, hanging scrolls, Japanese sculptures, Japanese pottery and porcelain, Japanese lacquerware.
Two weeks later, locals colonists and soldiers found and killed the group, and mutilated the bodies: Jacobina's mouth was slit.
The psychosis is characterised by an intense religious theme and typically resolves to full recovery after a few weeks or after being removed from the area.
The museum is the second museum established to house the art collection of Mokichi Okada, the founder of the Church of World Messianity (世界救世教, Sekai Kyūseikyō), and was founded in 1982.
Jesse Prince, former second-in-command of Scientology's RTC, wrote that OT VIII was revised after early participants were "horribly upset" by the content.
Chapters 56–66 are often referred to as Trito-Isaiah, with chapters 60–62, "three magnificent chapters", often seen as the "high-point" of Trito-Isaiah.
"666", de Jesús said, is not a sign of the devil (he preaches that the devil was destroyed) but instead is the number of the Antichrist and that the number is "a number of wisdom and it displays who is really following the truthful words of Jesus Christ".
However, according to the Bucheon government, on February 9, 20 people were confirmed to have the disease with 16 cases at a male dormitory it operated, 1 in a female dormitory, 2 in a factory where its members worked, and 1 in its orchestra.
See also Bana'im, another minor Jewish sect Hypsistarians Hemerobaptists, another minor Jewish sect References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Singer, Isidore; Broydé, Isaac (1904).
and International Animal Rescue Indonesia for its work saving critically endangered orangutans in Borneo, protecting rainforest habitats and encouraging sustainable community development.
It was reprinted again along with the Sefer Malkiel in Vilna in 1819, and again by Adolph Jellinek in his Bet Ha-Midrasch (1853–77) and S.
During the journey, Laman and Lemuel as well as members of Ishmael’s family defy Nephi, three of Ishmael’s daughters, and Ishmael and his wife.
Poetry Hanna has published two poetry books, Adultolescence (2017) and Dandelion (2020), both of which are New York Times Best Sellers.
He had a reputation for riotous living and violence, as reflected in an anecdote which claimed that, during a quarrel in an alehouse with a schoolmaster called Freckingham, Hacket bit off and ate his opponent's nose.
The eunuch comments that he does not understand what he is reading (Isaiah 53) and Philip explains to him that the passage refers to Jesus: "And the eunuch answered Philip, and said, I pray thee, of whom speaketh the prophet this?
However, her planned attack on Medina was called off after she learned that the army of Khalid ibn al-Walid had defeated Tulayha al-Asadi (another self-proclaimed prophet).
Family One of Mitchell's siblings is Leona Mitchell, his younger sister, a soprano who sang at the Metropolitan Opera.
It was found to contain only a few oddments and unimportant papers, among them a lottery ticket and a horse-pistol.
Translations Only partial translations of the Oomoto Shin'yu exist in English, Esperanto, Portuguese, and other languages, all of which omit anti-foreign passages in Nao Deguchi's original version.
Local magistrates and politicians, especially Lord John Russell, were attacked for their role in the affair.
Chilembwe's forces held a strong defensive position along the Mbombwe river and could not be pushed back.
Legend in France Besides the earliest sporadic mention in Chanson de Roland, a full career of Ogier from youth to death is treated in La Chevalerie Ogier de Danemarche, a 13th-century assonanced poem of approximately 13,000 lines, attributed to Raimbert de Paris, preserved in six manuscripts.
2020 Candidates associated with the circle ran on a list for 2020 parliamentary elections, although Ahmadinejad himself did not support any specific list.
Considering the religious community to be "too extreme", the archbishop's support waned and the brothers spent time searching for a permanent place to establish themselves.
Textual witnesses Some early manuscripts containing the text of this chapter in Hebrew are of the Masoretic Text tradition, which includes the Codex Cairensis (895), the Petersburg Codex of the Prophets (916), Aleppo Codex (10th century), Codex Leningradensis (1008).
He will break the cross, kill the swine, and put an end to war (in another tradition, there is the word Jizyah instead of Harb (war), meaning that he will abolish jizyah); God will perish all religions except Islam.
Beric Icke served in the Royal Air Force as a medical orderly during World War II, and after the war became a clerk in the Gents clock factory.
Some sources say that the army of Sufyani will number 12,000; while some say 170,000 and other sources say 300,000 According to a tradition from Muhammad al-Baqir: at the End Time, when Sufyani's army enters the territory of Bayda, a voice will call out: "O plain, annihilate the nation" (i.e.
His 29-year-old wife, Satoko Sakamoto (坂本都子 Sakamoto Satoko) was beaten and injected with potassium chloride.
Related terms, such as "twin rays", came into use in the early 20th century through Guy and Edna Ballard, founders of "I AM" Activity.
Before founding his own religious movement, he was a member of the group known as Olive Tree and of another movement called the Tabernacle Temple (장막성전).
In 1948, after receiving baptism from a Seventh-day Adventist minister, he began to call for the restoration of the truth of the New Covenant and the last religious reformation.
The first portion of Nephi's narration pertains to the history and experiences of his family (1 Nephi 1–18).
The American Eagle of August 1973 reports that letters from Teed indicated affection for his wife Delia and their son, and despite criticism, Delia accepted him as the messianic personality of the age.
Inspired, once he awoke Teed vowed to apply his scientific knowledge to "redeem humanity." He promptly changed his first name to "Koresh," the Hebrew version of "Cyrus".
'sitting'), in reference to those Imams who remained politically quiescent, especially the sixth Imam and his successors.
A few weeks later however, his leukocyte rate would drop significantly which resulted in an indefinite intake of harsher prescriptive drugs.
Content As claimed by most narration, contents of the voice will be about Muhammad al-Mahdi and his characteristics; and it will invite people towards him.
Ezekiel 37:24 refers to a person coming from the House of David as the servant of God, unique Shepherd of Israel, which will rule over the House of Judah (v.
"Gay Messiah" is a song written and performed by American-Canadian singer-songwriter Rufus Wainwright.
Historical background Until their deaths, the tenth and eleventh Shia Imams (Ali al-Hadi and Hasan al-Askari, respectively) were held in the garrison town of Samarra under close surveillance (or house arrest) by the Abbasids, who are often responsible in Shia sources for poisoning the two Imams.
Disappearance of "Creciendo en Gracia" and groups emerged from this sect After the death of José Luis de Jesús Miranda, the great majority of the followers did not want anything more to do with the sect, but some decided to remain united.
See also List of messiah claimants Messiah complex Footnotes Works The Immortal Manhood: The Laws and Processes of Its Attainment in the Flesh.
This also troubled many people who felt that it was being imposed upon Schneerson as something he had no control over.
This event pushed forward the date of the rebellion, and by 6 September, the members were busy collecting weapons.
This is related to a story according to which King Matjaž sleeps in the Peca Mountain above the valley.
They kept a constant vigil over his body for two days, after which time it began to show signs of decay.
One of the earliest acts of rebellion was Taiping members letting their hairs grow and forbade the use of queue braids.
Legendary hired Denis Villeneuve to direct a film adaptation of Dune, and later secured a production deal with parent company Warner Bros.
Other meetings were then held in Manchester, Meretown (also spelled Mayortown), Chester and other places near Manchester.
Hamilton-Byrne claimed to be the reincarnation of Jesus Christ, attracting followers including physicist Raynor Johnson, who identified as the reincarnation of John the Baptist.
According to Swedish legend, the Knights of Ålleberg are ghosts of twelve knights who died at the Battle of Åsle in a 1389.
The first museum, the Hakone Museum of Art (ja), was established in 1952 and is still in operation; the second museum, the Atami Museum of Art, was established in 1957 and is the predecessor of the museum.
The initial part of the dua was quoted for the first time in the book of Kunuz al-Nijah by Shaykh Tabarsi.
It is not the tradition of Islam." Brandon was delivered to the British military police who gave him medical treatment and escorted him to Kuwait the following day.
At the age of 20 she worked in a much less dangerous occupation, as a cook in a Manchester infirmary, which was also the local insane asylum.
On 13 January 2021 Suwon District Court in Seoul acquitted Lee of violating the infectious disease laws.
With the death of the last member of the society in 2012 their box was transferred to the Panacea Charitable Trust.
The Panacea Museum is in 'Castleside', a Victorian house that was part of the community's headquarters.
However, they follow different prayer practices and believe the Mahdi (the messiah figure and final leader in Islamic eschatology who is believed to appear at the end of times to rid the world of evil and injustice) has already come.
José Luis moved his then-wife Nydia and five children to South Florida, where he secured a 15-minute time slot from the radio station WVCG-AM to begin preaching.
Features In this book, Ibn Babawayh sometimes narrates hadiths from a single source, such as his father, Ibn Walid, or another individual.
The establishment of the Grail Settlement on Vomperberg came about when groups of readers of The Grail Message, wishing to live and work in his immediate vicinity, took up residence there.
Among these accounts are also the encounters of the prominent religious scholars (ulama) with the Hidden Imam.
The network of agents was especially important during the minor occultation, because Imam Mahdi only contacted his followers through the agents.
The book also describes the relationship between the sexes: "male" and "female", each representing a specific, separate "principle", each of equal value for the total Creation.
Jung Myung-seok was convicted of rape by the Supreme Court of Korea and spent 10 years in prison (2008-2018).
Then they used the footage as the basis of a documentary, which they presented as an exposé of the group.
Wrede's theory Wrede proposed that the author of Mark invented the notion of secrecy to explain a question early Christians might have raised about Jesus: if Jesus was the Messiah, as they believed, then why did he not proclaim and make it part of his ministry?
God did not promise an unbroken monarchy but one of David's descendants who would be qualified to sit on that throne when it was reestablished.
I am divinity and humanity combined." He was convicted on 15 December 2008, of one count of criminal sexual contact of a minor and two counts of contributing to the delinquency of a minor in 2008.
Unfazed by the fighting, Muqtada al-Sadr regularly gave Friday sermons in Kufa throughout the uprising.
The Black Standard The rising of al-Khorasani, or the movement of the Black Standard from the side of Khorasan, is considered to be among the signs of the appearance of the Mahdi.
Minor Occultation Immediately after the death of Hasan al-Askari in 260 (873–874), Uthman al-Amri (d.
Criticism and controversies Plagiarism In recent years, many ex-Raëlians have accused Vorilhon of plagiarism.
Deepika Padukone was cast as the female lead, in her Telugu film debut despite having starred in the unreleased Love 4 Ever.
Joseph's natural father was Jacob (mentioned in Matthew 1), who married the widow of his brother Heli (mentioned in Luke 3).
Assault of the Forbidden City Lin Qing was in charge of the attack on the Forbidden City, although he personally did not participate in the attack.
The enigmatic postexilic biblical leader receives a revelatory vision outlining personalities and events associated with the restoration of Israel, the End of Days, and the establishment of the Third Temple.
He condemned permanent residency and the naturalisation of foreigners because he viewed the abandonment of one's motherland to be wrong.
He was apprehended by the FSB and Russian police, and taken to Novosibirsk central district court, along with two aides, Vadim Redkin and Vladimir Vedernikov.
Catholicism In his Rule (530), Saint Benedict of Nursia designated psalms 109 to 147 for vespers, except those psalms reserved for other hours.
Later, Marko became an Ottoman vassal and died on 17 May 1395, fighting against the Wallachians in the Battle of Rovine.
Scholars disagree on the historicity of the debate, but the Trypho in question may have been Rabbi Tarfon.
The two Imams witnessed the deterioration of the Abbasid caliphate, as the imperial authority rapidly transitioned into the hands of the Turks, particularly after al-Mutawakkil.
By the early, 1970s Hojjatiyeh was active not only all over Iran but also in neighboring countries; and by 1977 the society was said to have had 12,000 members.
The Soldiers of Heaven were said to believe that spreading chaos would hasten the return of the 12th Imam/Mahdi, who will then rule the world, destroying tyranny and falsehood and bringing peace and justice before the Day of Judgement.
Kamal Haasan also joined the film in an important role, while Disha Patani was also cast in an important role.
Bana'im were a minor Jewish sect and an offshoot of the Essenes during the second century in Palestine.
Each of the Albury Conferences involved days full of close and laborious study of the prophetical books of the Bible; attempting to seek out as-yet-unfulfilled prophecies within them.
Jehoiakim is the ancestor of Jesus' step/adoptive father Joseph according to Matthew 1:11 (skipped in list; see 1 Chronicles 3:15–16 and 2 Kings 24:8).
Abdullah Hashem's The Goal of the Wise (translated into English in 2022) presents a theological framework that blends elements of Twelver Shi'ism, Sufism, Christian Gnosticism, Western mysticism, and conspirituality narratives.
the army of Sufyani) See also Occultation (Islam) Seyyed Hassani Seyed Khorasani Al-Yamani (Shiism) Voice from heaven The Fourteen Infallibles Nafs-e-Zakiyyah (Pure soul) Signs of the reappearance of al-Mahdi == References ==
Major Occultation The Major Occultation, a later term, began with the death of the fourth agent in 329 (940–941), who did not designate a successor.
In November, Pattinson confirmed he wrapped his part, in which he stated that he simply obeyed Villeneuve's direction as his brain "wasn't actually operating" due to the desert's heat.
On 25 November 1979, after serving five months, he escaped with the help of Abdullah Çatlı, second-in-command of the Grey Wolves, and fled to Bulgaria, which was a base of operations for the Turkish mafia.
The Sinasa massacre was a mass poisoning and stabbing carried out by religious leader Mangayanon Butaog on September 9, 1985 (1985-09-09) in Sinasa, a village in Davao City, Philippines.
The Times of London ran an article on its reception, entitled: "Unholy row as orthodox rabbi dares to speak the J word".
Creffield said he was innocent, but was found guilty and served fifteen months in the Oregon State Penitentiary.
See also Names and titles of Jesus in the New Testament Divine filiation Jesus in Manichaeism == References ==
The Ofudesaki is mostly written in a Japanese phonetic syllabary (a precursor to modern hiragana) and employs relatively few kanji, with only 49 distinct characters used.
He also compared the group to the Solar Temple, as both groups recorded their meetings and practiced swinging.
However, messiahs were not exclusively Jewish, as the Hebrew Bible refers to Cyrus the Great, an Achaemenid emperor, as a messiah for his decree to rebuild the Jerusalem Temple.
It has been suggested that Eli is short for Eliakim, which in the Old Testament is an alternate name of Jehoiakim, for whom Joachim is named.
To honor his legacy, the People's Republic of China established a small museum in 1959, the "Hong Xiuquan's Former Residence Memorial Museum" (洪秀全故居紀念館), in his birthplace, where there is a longan tree planted by him.
Chapters 40-55 are known as "Deutero-Isaiah" and date from the time of the Israelites' exile in Babylon.
Two major new doctrines were codified Ahn Sahng-hong should be regarded as Jesus Christ who had already came, should be titled Christ Ahn Sahng-hong, and pursuant to a traditional trinitarian view of Christian hypostasis Ahn was consequently also The Holy Spirit, God the Father, and thus God.
Personal history Evans was born about 1607 in Llangelynin parish and was apprenticed to a tailor at Wrexham.
It serves as the official platform of Abdullah Hashem and publishes video content presenting theological teachings, commentaries, and public statements on a range of subjects.
[…] Rex Hierosolymorum coronatur et inungitur; Rex Francorum Christianissimus coronatur et inungitur; Rex Anglorum coronatur et inungitur; Rex Siciliae coronatur et inungitur.
This in contrast to Jewish Christian and later gentile Christian tradition, which holds that the servant is Jesus.
Other interpretations from analysts have translated the term to indicating "the name of a place, not a person", although they also conclude that this is less likely overall.
According to legend it can be heard to beat at times when England is at war or significant national events take place.
During the Major Occultation (941–present), however, there is no agent of the Hidden Imam on earth, though it is believed that he remains providentially living in his physical body until his reappearance in the end of time.
It was believed by some Latter Day Saints that Joseph Smith had prophesied that Jesus Christ would return to earth by 1891; Brighouse went to the incomplete Salt Lake Temple and declared that he was Jesus, whose coming had been prophesied.
According to the Book of Jeremiah, messianic times would be sealed by the new covenant, final and eternal one, written ″on their hearts″ (Jr 31:31).
A mob of about 150, some of whom were masked, dragged Higgins from the house of disciple Ruel Clement one night in 1899, stripped him naked, covered him with hot tar, and applied a coat of chicken feathers.
In reference to the "overkill" which saw heavily armed constabulary members confront bolo-wielding Lapiang Malaya members, the incident came to be referred to as “Bloody Sunday,” a phrase coined by the Manila Times in its reports.
Honours Botafogo Campeonato Carioca: 1967, 1968 Taça Guanabara: 1968 Taça Brasil: 1968 Flamengo Campeonato Carioca: 1972, 1974 Taça Guanabara: 1972, 1973 References External links Chiquinho Pastor at National-Football-Teams.com Chiquinho Pastor at WorldFootball.net
Dobkowski later pleaded guilty for money laundering crimes associated with her membership in the group and served a 21-month prison sentence.
Pests would break out from the excessive use of fertilizers The difference in disease incidence between resistant and susceptible plants is attributed to nutrition conditions inside the body.
1145, but referring to events that occurred in 1113, mention is made of the Breton and Cornish belief that Arthur still lived.
His accusation, and the reactions of both Pope John Paul II and other members of the European Parliament, was recorded on video.
Her grandparents, Libório Mentz and Ernestina Magdalene Lips, immigrated from Germany, escaping religious persecution to which the Muckers were subjected to after their leaders lost a libel case.
The Ottoman Empire claimed to be the successor to the Roman Empire, but this was not widely recognised.
Jewish messianism gave birth to Christianity, which started as a Second Temple period messianic Jewish religious movement.
The couriers were arrested before reaching their destination and claimed to have hidden most of the money.
In 1959, he declared himself Jesus, reduced his sermons and began to initiate various business ventures to fund a New Jerusalem.
The incident occurred in Levant, Maine, just outside Bangor in 1899, and resulted in the trial of 29 members of a mob numbering about 150 persons.
According to Hojjatieh, its campaign was so effective that Bahais adopted "a more defensive and reserved posture ...
7:15 טו חֶמְאָה וּדְבַשׁ, יֹאכֵל--לְדַעְתּוֹ מָאוֹס בָּרָע, וּבָחוֹר בַּטּוֹב.‎ By the time he learns to reject the bad and choose the good, he will be eating curds and honey.
O my Master, O Master of the era.” This phrase refers to the acceleration in the reappearance of the Mahdi.
Leland comments in the Appendix, "I also believe that in this Gospel of the Witches we have a trustworthy outline at least of the doctrine and rites observed at these meetings [the witches' Sabbat].
James Warburg, appearing before the United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations in 1950, famously stated: "We shall have world government, whether or not we like it.
Officials tortured Li, but before they hurt him too seriously, Li's followers broke in and released him.
Extinction of the sect The Waqifites continued in their beliefs for a long time, but decreased in number with the passage of time, until the death of the theory and the extinction of those who believed in it.
O God, make me one of His supporters, His helpers, His defenders, and those who hasten to Him in fulfilling His needs, and those who obey His orders and advocate for Him.
Alternate use While the title itself is for Messianic use some Shia scholars ascribed it to Imam Sadiq, according to some traditions narrated from his father in al Kafi Imam Baqir said about him : By God this is Qaim āl Muhammad.
The party finished sixth overall in the election and was represented in the transitional legislature.
It also seeks African American economic advancement through individual achievement; various women members have created their own businesses, sometimes run from the home.
1948) is a Brazilian esoteric guru who made claims to be the second coming of Jesus in 1979, after allegedly having a revelation in a seclusion during some days in Santiago, Chile.
Some Christian scholars, however, have pointed out that the rendering of the text labors under the difficulty that Shiloh is not found as a personal name in the Old Testament.
Donna Mitchell Starr was a member of the sect, and her husband, Burgess Ebeneazer Starr, pressed charges of adultery.
Provenzano was originally scheduled to be the second person executed in Florida's newly built electric chair on July 14, 1999, but the execution was stayed following the gruesome death of Allen Lee Davis six days before.
A hadith attributed to Jabir ibn Abd Allah reports:Sahih Muslim Book 1, Hadith 293 Abu Ya’ala provides another version of this hadith in his musnad with more clear terms.
The concepts described by Sinnett were amended, elaborated, and greatly expanded in The Secret Doctrine (published 1888), a major work by Helena Blavatsky (⁠1831–1891⁠), a founder of the Theosophical Society and contemporary Theosophy.
In the Light of Truth describes that there is a polarity between man and woman, which having been misunderstood in the past has often resulted in confusion over the intrinsic nature of their respective activities and the purpose of the sexes.
Nothing more was heard from him until over a year later when his family heard that a man who fitted his description and went by the name of Sir William Courtenay was being held in Maidstone prison.
The concept of messianism originated in Judaism, and in the Hebrew Bible a messiah is a king or High Priest of Israel traditionally anointed with holy anointing oil.
Furthermore, in the 1990s Koyama commissioned the museum to be built close to the Shumei temple in the Shiga mountains.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, Quiboloy claimed on his YouTube channel that the emergence of the Omicron variant is caused by his prosecution from the US and the negative criticism from the public.
Contemporary to the tenth Imam, the Abbasid al-Mutawakkil violently prosecuted the Shia, partly due to a renewed Zaydi opposition.
Then Jesus will pray for the death of Gog and Magog (Yajuj Majuj) who are an ancient tribe sealed away from humanity who will rise to cause destruction.
Early life Joanna Southcott was born in the hamlet of Taleford, Devonshire, baptised at Ottery St Mary, and grew up in the village of Gittisham.
Isaiah promises that God can save Israel from this threat, but that if the Jews continue to sin the Assyrian empire will be the instrument of God's vengeance.
His rise to fame, though, began when his son, Rabbi David Kaduri, who ran a poultry store in the Bukharim Market, decided to found a proper yeshivah organization under his father.
While narrating a divine cataclysm that affects the Nephites, Mormon refers to Zenock and affirms that the events confirmed Zenock's prophecies.
Ben Yahweh was released on parole in 2001 and returned to Miami, but his activities were restricted until a few months before his death.
Park also claimed to be the "righteous man from the East" mentioned in the Book of Isaiah 41.2 and identified "the East" with Korea.
A tradition by Ja'far al-Sadiq about Yamani ancestry said, "[One] from the lineage of my uncle Zayd will rise from Yemen." There are different names for al-Yamani in different traditions, such as "Hassan", "Hussein", "Saeed", "Mansour", and "Nasr".
He was considered an illui and genius, and by the time he was 17, he had mastered the entire Talmud, some 5,422 pages, as well as all its early commentaries.
‘Abdullah al Himyary al Qommi as the narrator of this Ziyarat was lived in the terminal period of the minor occultation and likewise many of his letters to the twelfth Imam of Shia (Mahdi) have been narrated, according to source(s).
See also Antipope New religious movement Palmarian Catholic Church Sedevacantism References External links (in French, English, Italian, and Spanish) Official site
He will eliminate all barbarians and robbers, end adharma, restart dharma, and save the good people.
God spoke into my ears, saying, ‘Do not look at any writings, even the charge book from a bean curd shop.’ I wondered why.
In December 2011, the president of the John Frum movement (and jointly of Nagriamel) was Thitam Goiset, a woman of Vietnamese origin and sister of businessman Dinh Van Than, despite the leadership of these movements having been "previously [...] held by high ranking male chiefs".
The faction were unable to secure a seat in Tehran City Council and even Parvin, Ahmadinejad's sister was unseated.
In interwar Bessarabia, Doina continued to have an especially strong presence as a political symbol and poetic model, while La arme was quoted as an opening text by the literary review Viața Basarabiei.
According to Bailey, the debate between Justin and Trypho concerning Isaiah 53 was twofold: 1) Do the Hebrew Scriptures in general, and Isaiah 53 in specific, predict a suffering (παθητός, pathetos) Messiah?
As a consequence, his skin was like that of a newborn baby, and even his hair dresser had said his hair was soft like that of a newborn and had regained its colour.
The restrictive policies of al-Mutawakkil towards the tenth Imam were later adopted by his son, al-Mu'tamid, who is reported to have kept the eleventh Imam under house arrest without any visitors.
Gordon considered the routes northward to be too dangerous to extricate the garrisons and so pressed for reinforcements to be sent from Cairo to help with the withdrawal.
Early life Inri Cristo was raised by two Roman Catholic farmers of German ancestry: Wilhelm and Magdalena Theiss.
Emmanuel Olufunmilayo Odumosu (1915–1988) known predominantly by his sobriquet Jesu Oyingbo which means “Jesus of Oyingbo” was a religious sect leader who claimed he was Jesus Christ returned.
Uses The King James Version of this verse is cited as texts in the English-language oratorio "Messiah" by George Frideric Handel (HWV 56).
His enemies are dead or overthrown, and he is set to take the reins of power and bring a hard but enlightened peace to the universe.
The truck's cargo space held "a heating contraption that had been specifically designed to turn "twelve litres of liquid sarin into an aerosol, and fans to diffuse the aerosol into the neighbourhood".
2020 arrest On 22 September 2020, Russian authorities arrested Vissarion on charges of running an illegal religious organization, possible physical harm to others, and extortion.
Ahmadis believe that the prophecies concerning the Mahdi and the second coming of Jesus have been fulfilled in Mirza Ghulam Ahmad (1835–1908), the founder of the Ahmadiyya Movement.
He was released after many weeks' imprisonment, on giving a bond to come up for judgment when called upon.
Isaiah 60 is the sixtieth chapter of the Book of Isaiah in the Hebrew Bible or the Old Testament of the Christian Bible.
In 2014, she set up a YouTube channel under the name The Gabbie Show, which was changed to Gabbie Hanna in 2017 after the release of her debut single "Out Loud", but was later changed back to The Gabbie Show in 2021.
Rav Kook, not wanting to pay direct tribute to a secular Jew for Halakha reasons, instead deviated from a traditional Jewish eulogy and used various Jewish texts in his address while never giving direct tribute to Herzl.
According to a narration from Muhammad al-Baqir this voice will be heard in Ramadan before reappearance of Muhammad al-Mahdi.
Aftermath After the survivors of the massacre alerted local authorities, nine people, including an officer and militia members, hiked to the village on September 16, 1985.
Matthew 2:17–18 gives the Massacre of the Innocents by Herod the Great as the fulfillment of a prophecy allegedly given by this verse in Jeremiah.
Biography Born Evelyn Grace Victoria Edwards on 30 December 1921 in the Victorian town of Sale, she was the eldest of seven children in a working-class family.
The Yamani or al-Yamani (Arabic: الیماني) is a pre-messianic figure in Shia Islamic eschatology, who is prophesied to appear to the people to guide them to the truth of Imam al-Mahdi, the ultimate savior of mankind from the Shia viewpoint and the final Imam of the Twelve Imams.
Krishna Venta (1911–1958), born Francis Herman Pencovic in San Francisco, founded the WKFL (Wisdom, Knowledge, Faith and Love) Fountain of the World cult in Simi Valley, California in the late 1940s.
After some time, Khosrow, along with the Byzantine commander of the south, Comentiolus, invaded Mesopotamia.
David Koresh (; born Vernon Wayne Howell; August 17, 1959 – April 19, 1993) was an American cult leader and preacher who played a central role in the Waco siege of 1993.
West Slavic Bolesław the Brave, king of Poland, asleep with a host of knights in a cave hidden somewhere in Giewont, a mountain massif which is itself said to resemble a sleeping knight.
His face, with a neatly trimmed beard, matched a photo in a pamphlet found at the site entitled "Holy Coming", which identified him as the Mahdi.
The Emperor responded by announcing on national television a reduction in petrol prices and a freeze on the cost of basic commodities.
In recent years, Salomon increasingly shifted the focus of the Temple Mount Faithful in the apocalyptic and messianic direction, and restoration of the Jewish Temple became one of the central objectives of the movement.
I will not appear until God permits me to do so (may His name be exalted) and that will be after a long time and after the hearts become hard and the earth is filled with wickedness.
Although they can be recreated using computer-generated imagery (CGI), the director opted to build these vehicles from scratch.
who fought the Romans courageously and was ultimately murdered for trying to throw off the Roman yoke of oppression ...
In 2001 the museum acknowledged that a sixth-century statue of a Bodhisattva in its collection was the same sculpture which had been stolen from a public garden in Shandong province, China, in 1994, agreeing with the Chinese government to return it in 2007.
On 8 October 1990, seventeen Palestinians were killed and over 100 others injured by Israeli Border Police in the 1990 Temple Mount riots triggered by an announcement by the Temple Mount Faithful that they were going to lay a cornerstone for a Third Jewish Temple on the Temple Mount in Jerusalem.
Modern era The use of Isaiah 53 in debates between Jews and Christians still often occurs in the context of Christian missionary work among Jews, and the topic is a source of frequent discussion that is often repetitive and heated.
Some English translations retain the word "Shiloh", either as a title ("until Shiloh come," King James Version) or as a place name ("as long as men come to Shiloh," JPS Tanakh).
By contrast, Clinton was dismissive of such emotion-filled storytelling and ignored the emotional dynamics of the Trumpist narrative.
The animation was also dubbed in Arabic and released in Iraq, Kuwait, Lebanon and some other Middle Eastern countries.
Rabbi Kaduri achieved celebrity status during the 1996 Knesset elections when he was flown by helicopter to multiple political rallies in support of the Shas party, and for amulets that were produced in his name for supporters of that party.
Christopher writes "The debate about the legitimacy of Ching Hai largely plays out through cyber forums from YouTube videos to cult warning websites.
Khasf al-Bayda has been mentioned in both Shia and Sunni sources, and it was narrated that "Khasf al-Bayda" will be is going to be one of the decisive signs of the appearance of Mahdi.
Chilembwe's portrait was soon added to the national currency, the kwacha, and reproduced on Malawian stamps.
Bara'at is an Arabic noun which is roughly translated to English as either innocence, records, assignment, deliverance or salvation.
Life In 1356 he was brought to England as a hostage for his father's good behaviour, but as his father died that same year, he was soon released.
Furthermore, fine grain materials have been shown to act as better chemical barriers than sand caps.
Collaborations involved with ARES included Dignitas Technologies, Design Interactive (DI), the University of Central Florida's Institute for Simulation and Training, and the U.S.
Luna E-8-5M No.412 was launched at 04:04:56 UTC on 16 October 1975 atop a Proton-K 8K78K launch vehicle with a Blok D-1 upper stage, flying from Site 81/23 at the Baikonur Cosmodrome.
Related compounds Urea is the parent for a class of chemical compounds that share the same functional group.
There is a stretch of nearly 2 billion years of lunar history that planetary scientists have not been able to date because the Apollo missions did not retrieve any young rocks.
The brothers were transported to Ba Sing Se, where there was a bounty on the two for aiding the airbenders' escape, and incarcerated.
Recharge in rural areas is heavily supported by precipitation, and this is the opposite for urban areas.
Naga is much more graceful than Lina and has an outrageously loud boisterous 'noblewoman' (ojousama) laugh (which Kanzaka said is similar to the laughter of Naga's mother) that most people in the Slayers world find unbearably obnoxious (to the point of rendering them physically powerless).
A high phosphate concentration is a common indicator of decaying organic matter, such as bones, tissue, or excrement.
Rendezvous with the 88P/Howell would happen in May 2031 and the interactions would last up to 294 days.
They are typically classified as oxisols (USDA soil taxonomy) or ferralsols (World Reference Base for Soil Resources).
This historic method of building construction is mainly localised to Haddenham and the surrounding local area in Buckinghamshire.
She could permit or prevent mining in certain places, give or take wealth, and sometimes employs lizards under her control as her minions to conduct her work.
He also sometimes refers to the character as something playing on the object's name or appearance (such as calling a grapefruit "Apefruit").
Chronic exposure to trichloroethylene has also been linked to an increased risk of Parkinson's disease.
Because most sands are highly siliceous, Psamments are also extremely low in all essential nutrients, most especially phosphorus and are highly acidic in all except very arid climates.
Uehara, Gore; Gillman, Gavin (1981), Mineralogy Chemistry and Physics of Tropical Soils With Variable Charge Colloids, Westview Tropical Agriculture Series
Furthermore, the shear strength of discontinuities influences the stress distribution in a soil or rock mass.
At this point, there was only the formation of very strong marine clay, which is found all over the world and highly stable, but with its own unique geotechnical problems.
Like topsoil, it is composed of a variable mixture of small particles such as sand, silt and clay, but with a much lower percentage of organic matter and humus.
The Henry's Law constant, sometimes called coefficient, is specific to each compound and depends on the system temperature.
Aleurite is an unconsolidated sediment with a texture intermediately between sand and clay, similar to silt, with particle sizes ranging from 0.01 to 0.1 millimetres (0.00039 to 0.00394 in).
The only cadmium mineral of importance, greenockite (CdS), is nearly always associated with sphalerite (ZnS).
Local topography related tillage erosion is most pronounced in hummocky landscapes with eroded hilltops that often exhibit a light soil color due to the loss of organic-rich topsoil, a phenomenon often mistakenly assumed to be the result of water erosion.
The deformation caused by the foot expands the sand under it and the water in the sand moves to fill the new space between the grains.
It is readily available (bagged, at nursery suppliers), and its formulation generally consists of a combination of wheat straw, dried blood, horse manure and ground chalk, composted together.
Considering specific density of 1.1 ton/m3 confirmed reserves in Armenia amount to 165 million tons.
A rotational slump occurs when a slump block, composed of sediment or rock, slides along a concave-upward slip surface with rotation about an axis parallel to the slope.
Whereas the topsoil tends to be the depth of greatest physical, chemical, and biological activity, the subsoil is the depth of most deposition.
The US Navy report denied any signs of nuclear waste dumping and instead related the traces of uranium to volcanic activity.
Its practical uses include incorporation into paving materials for roads and driveways, residential gardening materials in arid environments, and various types of walkways and heavy-use paths in parks.
Shrub swamp water comes from run-off, streams and rivers and the water moves in and out of the swamp throughout the year.
On 3 June 2020, eight buildings were swept into the sea by a landslide in Kråkneset in Alta Municipality in Norway.
Two workers will usually cooperate on the same strip of the roof, wide enough to be comfortably within reach.
The show follows a team of sand sculptors as they travel to various locales to create elaborate sand structures for their business clients.
House Rock had numerous bullet hole-like marks where micrometeoroids from space had impacted the rock.
Semi-autonomous features, such as grade control and automated digging cycles on excavators, are also becoming common, assisting operators in performing tasks with greater speed and precision.
Most of the tests do not sink as individual particles; about 99% of them are first consumed by some other organism, and are then aggregated and expelled as large fecal pellets, which sink much more quickly and reach the ocean floor in only 10–15 days.
Epichlorohydrin, butylene oxide, N-methylpyrrole and ethyl acetate are common stabilisers for TCE, with epichlorohydrin being the most persistent and effective.
There are many ways to predict frost depth, including factors related to air temperature, soil temperature, and soil properties.
Macroptilium atropurpureum, commonly referred to as purple bush-bean, or siratro is a perennial legume recognized by its climbing, dense, green vines and deep purple flowers.
Military use In military engineering, earthworks are, more specifically, types of fortifications constructed from soil.
Officially, the Soviets announced that "the lunar landing in the complex mountainous conditions proved to be unfavorable." Later, in 1975, the Soviets published data from Luna 18's continuous-wave radio altimeter that determined the mean density of the lunar topsoil.
state soils References USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service State Soils New Jersey (PDF) Archived 2017-05-07 at the Wayback Machine
Therefore, nutrient reabsorption during senescence presents an opportunity for a plant's future net primary production use.
It is surface-mined, immediately sifted and bagged, and supplied in various grades; the deeper-mined grade are somewhat harder and more useful in horticulture than the softer, shallow-mined grades.
As of December 2018, the land was owned by Renshaw Properties, a company registered in the British Virgin Islands.
Oxygen sensors and other gas sensors detect the danger; alarms from the sensors can warn the occupants.
(Ep.12, 13, 16/Joins the team full-time in Season 2) Production crew (additional) Note: Crew members not listed in production infobox above.
Occurrence Silt is a very common material, and it has been estimated that there are a billion trillion trillion (1033) silt grains worldwide.
One of these problems is the determination of soil-water-characteristic curve (also called (water retention curve) and/or capillary pressure curve).
The conditions include the extremes of erosive intense rainfall, ice wedging, as may seasonally occur at opposite ends of the rock-type and regional spectrum.
Finally, in tropical regions, frost line may refer to the vertical geographic elevation below which frost does not occur.
Results from the Lunar Orbiter probes had revealed that lunar gravity varies slightly due to the presence of mass concentrations, or "mascons".
List of Géotechnique Lecturers See also Named lectures Rankine Lecture Terzaghi Lecture External links ICE Géotechnique journal British Geotechnical Association == References ==
In geotechnical engineering, trench investigations locate faults and investigate deep soil properties.
In fact, the primary definition of loam in most dictionaries is soils containing humus (organic content) with no mention of particle size or texture, and this definition is used by many gardeners.
Regions with high frequency wildfires have reduced vegetation density and reduced soil litter accumulation.
An admixture of other natural or synthetic materials can broaden the range of decomposed granite properties.
In coniferous forests and ericaceous heaths, foliage litter can also contain high concentrations of tannins and terpenes.
It was the first soil to go on display when Scientists from the Natural Resources Conservation Service of the USDA, the Soil Science Society of America and others worked with exhibit designers from the Smithsonian Institution on a display of soil monoliths from every state.
Peak of production and decline Deforestation and scarcity The massive production of charcoal (at its height employing hundreds of thousands, mainly in Alpine and neighbouring forests) was a major cause of deforestation, especially in Central Europe.
Other indicators include nitrogen, calcium, potassium, magnesium, iron, copper, and zinc concentrations.
Aftermath and spacecraft locations Following their mission, the crew undertook both domestic and international tours, visiting 29 states and 11 countries.
As the sediments pile up, the deeper parts start to warm up (from geothermal heat), and bacteria get to work breaking down the contained organic matter.
Using Plants To Clean Up Soils — from Agricultural Research magazine New Alchemy Institute — co-founded by John Todd (Canadian biologist)
These active tilth-forming processes contribute to the formation and stabilization of soil structure.
In nontechnical engineering, bearing capacity is the capacity of soil to support the loads applied to the ground.
The goal of mass haul planning is to determine these amounts and the goal of mass haul optimization is to minimize either or both.
Other methods of casting, such as those using shell molds, boast higher quality of surface finish but have a higher cost.
In the Tagus delta, Portugal, the leaching efficiency of the dense clay soil was found as low as 0.10 to 0.15.
Smith Injector - Smith Measuremix injectors are powered by a water motor which is turned when water flows through it and in turn powers the injector pump.
Recent research has reported that terra preta may be of natural origin, suggesting that pre-Columbian people intentionally utilized and improved existing areas of soil fertility scattered among areas of lower fertility.
See also Effective microorganisms Korean natural farming Natural farming Permaculture == References ==
Determination of adequate compaction is done by determining the in-situ density of the soil and comparing it to the maximum density determined by a laboratory test.
Terzaghi's Bearing Capacity Theory Karl von Terzaghi was the first to present a comprehensive theory for the evaluation of the ultimate bearing capacity of rough shallow foundations.
Effects Soil degradation Tillage erosion causes loss of fertile top soil from the eroding portion of the field.
The explosion also opens up a portal into another dimension called the Quarrm Dimension, inhabited by non-corporeal spirits.
Following either approach for the active earth pressure, the depth of tension crack appears to be the same as in the case of zero backfill inclination (see Bell's extension of Rankine's theory).
Flooding and drought, as noted, add to the stress of the site and prevent many species from growing.
Perlite world production, led by China, Turkey, Greece, USA, Armenia and Hungary, summed up to 4.6 million tonnes in 2018.
Keeping wychert well ventilated and not subject to excess condensation is therefore highly recommended.
In geotechnical engineering, a discontinuity (often referred to as a joint) is a plane or surface that marks a change in physical or chemical characteristics in a soil or rock mass.
In addition, injection of hot (dry) air can remove soil moisture and thus improve the gas permeability of the soil.
Phytovolatilization Phytovolatilization is the removal of substances from soil or water with release into the air, as a result of phytotransformation to more volatile and/or less polluting substances.
Patients exposed to dichloroacetylene showed symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, loss of apetite, headache, facial nervous and muscular issues, and formation of herpes-like lesions on the face.
a fitting discontinuity) move relative to each other, under low stress levels that do not cause breaking of the asperities.
Tepetates at the surface are problematic for agriculture, because of their hardness, poor drainage, and poor fertility.
These new enzymes might be of interest for their potential in the chemical modification of steroid substrates.
Since these soils have a very low permeability, dewatering in a traditional sense (gravity flow into an abstraction well) may prove very costly or even futile.
Heavy vertical timbers served as central roof supports: Northern Plains earth lodges almost always had four center posts, while the Pawnees, Omahas, Otoes, and other Central Plains tribes used four, six, eight, ten, or even twelve.
If a sample-return was to be performed, the lander would have taken off then, rendezvous and deliver the surface and subsurface samples to the mothership hovering above (at 50 km) for subsequent delivery to Earth within a reentry capsule.
Clay minerals are predominant over wide areas in the deepest parts of the ocean, and most of this clay is terrestrial in origin.
The circular floor represented the earth and the domed ceiling the sky; the entrance faced east, toward the Morning Star, so that people entered the lodge as stars enter the sky, and the altar on the western side represented the domain of the Evening Star and symbolized creation and renewal.
Sometimes other ingredients may be added to reduce the amount of expensive Portland cement such as pozzolanas and rice husk ash.
Specifically in the hydrology domain, permeability of soil or rock may also be defined as the flux of water under hydrostatic pressure (≈ 0.1 bar/m) at a temperature of 20 °C.
When tepetates lie under the soil, they present a risk for erosion and landslides, because water runs off laterally, rather than being absorbed.
Since the product is proprietary, installation requires a crew trained by the Cast Earth company, leaving it out of reach of do-it-yourself builders.
In the geologic record Sediments containing over 30% gravel that become lithified into solid rock are termed conglomerate.
Bioavailability, chemotaxis, and transport of pollutants Bioavailability, or the amount of a substance that is physiochemically accessible to microorganisms is a key factor in the efficient biodegradation of pollutants.
In Asia, they are found in the mountain ranges east and west of Lake Baikal, and on fringes of the Himalayas, notably in India, Nepal, China and Burma.
In geotechnical engineering and contact mechanics the term asperity is used to refer to individual features of unevenness (roughness) of the surface of a discontinuity, grain, or particle with heights in the range from approximately 0.1 mm to the order of metres.
The OH horizon is composed of humified plant material, resulting from the slow and incomplete process of fungal decomposition.
An alternative theory is that basal till, weakened by high pore water pressure, deformed upwards into parallel basal crevasses a short distance in from the glacial margin.
Another being from Quarrm enters Earth via Quarmer's portal and fuses with a giant Chinese statue of a monster.
Aluandic – Andosols with advanced soil formation containing many complexes of organic substances and aluminium.
Former Montana Governor Brian Schweitzer wrote his master's dissertation on Scobey soil series in which he found that, at the same site, wheat planted on Scobey soil plots consistently produced higher yields than wheat grown on Kevin soil series plots.
Processes Deep wells A deep well typically consists of a borehole fitted with a slotted liner and an electric submersible pump.
This occurs when poor soil aeration limits free oxygen, forcing bacteria to use the oxygen in nitrate for their respiratory process.
Its resistance to earthquake is attributed to the combination of heavy mass (used for thermal insulation) and timber-frame structure.
Sod can be used to repair small, dead or damaged areas of lawn, golf course, or athletic field, and is used as a quicker alternative to re-growing from seed.
Calcium and magnesium are abundant, but potassium content is often low, so nutrient imbalances are common.
During irrigation or rain events, the limited large pore space in fine-textured soils quickly fills with water, reducing soil oxygen levels.
Methods commonly applied are: requirements for double containment of underground storage tanks, registration of hazardous materials usage, reduction in numbers of allowed pesticides and more stringent regulation of fertilizers and herbicides in landscape maintenance.
The regulatory criteria for 1,4-dioxane is constantly changing as more is learned about this contaminant.
Supra-permafrost taliks Due to climate fluctuations or changes, some permafrost regions may develop an unfrozen layer between the seasonal thawing and freezing surface layer and the permafrost.
The engines on the Block D upper stage failed due to an oxidizer leak, leaving the spacecraft to burn up in Earth's atmosphere.
Modern practice often includes spraying the mixture at pressure (a technique called shotcrete) or some other method of driving out trapped air.
The ability of a soil to recover from this type of compaction depends on climate, mineralogy and fauna.
Beneficial Pseudomonas and Bacillus produce fungal suppressing metabolites that break up this migrating fungal hyphae.
See also Desert ecology Pedogenesis Pedology Soil classification Soil science Soil type Calcid References "Aridisols".
I Ching arrives and hypnotizes the two, making them see that their fight would end up destroying Earth.
In the field of hydrogeology, storage properties are physical properties that characterize the capacity of an aquifer to release groundwater.
Whereas POM is thought to be more fragments of plant compounds like phenols, cellulose and fungal derived compounds (chitin) that have not experienced much decomposition.
Design and operation of a SVE system is relatively straightforward, with the major uncertainties having to do with subsurface geology/formation characteristics and the location of contamination.
Ampo is a food made of soil originating from Central Java and East Java, Indonesia and eaten as a snack or light meal.
The planting of perennial crops and bench or contour terracing offer possibilities for permanent agriculture on gentler slopes.
This inspection, alongside tests revealing that the grains were magnetic, led McBride to conclude these grains were pieces of shrapnel.
In Sweden, the 'Stockholm Solution' is an urban tree planting system that uses 30% biochar to support urban forest growth.
The two were knocked unconscious by the resulting impact with the ground but would later regain consciousness.
The most commonly used grade of these fertilizer solutions is UAN 32.0.0 (32%N) known as UN32 or UN-32, which consists of 45% ammonium nitrate, 35% urea and only 20% water.
In the case of upward-flowing water, forces oppose the force of gravity and suspend the soil particle.
She is a peerless acrobat and can paralyze people or temporarily neutralize their bending powers by striking pressure points in a similar fashion to the martial art style of Dim Mak.
Aridisols have a very low concentration of organic matter, reflecting the paucity of vegetative production on these dry soils.
Fech fech (Arabic: فش فش) is a very fine powder caused by the erosion of clay-limestone terrain and it is most commonly found in deserts.
The coefficient of friction μ {\displaystyle \mu } is equal to t a n ( ϕ ′ ) {\displaystyle tan(\phi ')} .
In Orkney these soils were created already in the 12th to 13th centuries, and on some islands in Shetland these methods continued to be used until the 1960s.
Cast Earth can also be installed with a lot less labor than most green alternatives, such as rammed earth.
The mineral products are: Cellulose and hemicellulose undergo fast decomposition by fungi and bacteria, with a half-life of 12–18 days in a temperate climate.
This soil type typically occurs as a discontinuous layer that ranges from a few centimeters to several meters in thickness that covers limestone and dolomite bedrock in karst regions.
Mud from some locations required sand, chopped straw, or other binders such as animal dung to be mixed in with the mud to increase durability and plasticity.
Relative differences in long-term erodibility can be estimated by quantifying the erosion response under similar climatic and topographic conditions with different rock lithology.
Mudcrete is a structural material (employed, for example, as a basecourse in road construction) made by mixing mud (usually marine mud) with sand and concrete/cement.
A soil clod, however, is not a ped but rather a mass of soil that results from mechanical disturbance of the soil such as cultivation.
That is the condition that allows anaerobic digestion and fermentation of any plant or animal matter, which then produces methane.
Sustainable Approach to Low-Grade Bauxite Processing The IB2 process is a French technology developed to enhance the extraction of alumina from bauxite, especially low-grade bauxite.
The equations, which take into account soil cohesion, soil friction, embedment, surcharge, and self-weight, are given below.
The content of sedimentary layers (lithological and biological), their order in the sequence, and geometrical characteristics keep records of the history of the Earth, of past climate, sea-level and environment.
The platform's developer - NPO Lavochkin - stressed that in different configuration, the same bus could be adapted as an orbiter or as a lander.
Soil geography Myakka soils originate from marine deposits and are a key component of Floridian flatwoods.
The Augmented Reality Sandtable (ARES) is an interactive, digital sand table that uses augmented reality (AR) technology to create a 3D battlespace map.
An advantage of using the pedological approach to study shallow water habitat is that soils are studied as a collection of horizons that are linked vertically with depth and horizontally across the subaqueous landscape.
With a shallow topsoil layer and a moderately stony subsoil, stagnogley soil is mainly used for woodland, supporting tree species that thrive well in these conditions, such as the English Oak.
Landforms created by frost heaving Frost heaving creates raised-soil landforms in various geometries, including circles, polygons and stripes, which may be described as palsas in soils that are rich in organic matter, such as peat, or lithalsa in more mineral-rich soils.
The Muses Sea site (Point A) was selected as the landing site, for both first and, if possible, second landings.
The stress-strain relationship levels off when the material stops expanding or contracting, and when interparticle bonds are broken.
The design of the machine and more importantly the wheels and the teeth is very critical in compaction.
Usually solid in earlier uses, in most cases from the 19th century onwards each piece of terracotta is composed of a hollow clay web enclosing a void space or cell.
Gravel is deposited as gravel blankets or bars in stream channels; in alluvial fans; in near-shore marine settings, where the gravel is supplied by streams or erosion along the coast; and in the deltas of swift-flowing streams.
This will also reduce landslides, cave-ins and minimize the risk of explosions of landfill gas (see landfill gas migration).
Many Berkshire soils lack the eluvial (E) horizon characteristic of podzols because they have a history of being cleared for cultivation.
The term MSE is usually used in the US to distinguish it from "Reinforced Earth", a trade name of the Reinforced Earth Company, but elsewhere Reinforced Soil is the generally accepted term.
There are two main types of data, analyzed zircon data (quantifiable data and imagery/descriptive data), and sample (where they extract the zircon grains) data.
When the layers geometry satisfies the conditions of perspective correspondence the correlation line is a straight line.
However, the activities with solvent consumption below a specified threshold are not covered by these minimum requirements.
Mohr–Coulomb failure criterion The Mohr–Coulomb failure criterion represents the linear envelope that is obtained from a plot of the shear strength of a material versus the applied normal stress.
After several months on the Martian surface and after storing the samples collected by the lander and mobile robot, the ascent vehicle will launch from atop the lander and rendezvous with the waiting orbiter.
The successor to the 2013–2022 Decadal Survey, the 2023–2032 Decadal Survey, continued to endorse the SPA sample return concept but recommended it be considered by NASA's Lunar Discovery and Exploration Program rather than New Frontiers.
Management, such as informed crop rotation and soil solarization, can create suppressive soils that naturally suppress pathogens.
It has negative effects on native shrubs, grasses, and young trees by smothering them under its dense vines and not allowing them enough sunlight or soil nutrients to grow.
This transport system is sufficient to supply all of the aerobic respiratory needs of the grass roots and also helps to aerate the surrounding mud.
Thickness of the mollic epipedon ranges from 8 to 20 inches and includes all or part of the Bt horizon.
With the projector and Kinect sensor both facing down on the surface of the sandbox, the projector provides a digital overlay over the sand and the Kinect sensor scans the surface of the map to detect any user gestures inside the boundaries of the sandbox.
The use of charcoal as a smelting fuel has been experiencing a resurgence in South America resulting in severe environmental, social and medical problems.
According to Roman Ghirshman, the first evidence of humans using a form of mortar was at the Mehrgarh of Baluchistan in what is today Pakistan, built of sun-dried bricks in 6500 BC.
The process conditions are a compromise: the ill-effect on the first reaction of the high temperature (around 190 °C (374 °F)) needed for the second is compensated for by conducting the process under high pressure (1.4–1.75 MPa (203–254 psi)), which favors the first reaction.
Nitrogen isotopes Nitrogen was a key target element because the extent and origin of its isotopic variations in Solar System materials were unknown.
They are found, for example, in the central European Central Upland ranges of the Black Forest, Ore Mountains and Eifel in waterlogged places, as well as on the Midvale Ridge in the UK.
Liquefying the clay increased the amount of small silica particles that would be deposited on the surface of the block.
It expresses the quality of the rock mass for slope stability using the Q-slope value, from which long-term stable, reinforcement-free slope angles can be derived.
A medium with a permeability of 1 darcy permits a flow of 1 cm3/s of a fluid with viscosity 1 cP (1 mPa·s) under a pressure gradient of 1 atm/cm acting across an area of 1 cm2.
In Eastern North America The indigenous peoples of North America built substructure mounds for well over a thousand years, starting in the Archaic period and continuing through the Woodland period.
It has been proposed that carbonaceous chondrite matter (in the form of planetesimals or dust) could have brought these complex organic molecules capable of triggering the pre-biotic synthesis of biochemical compounds on the early Earth.
There are large areas of calcareous grassland in northwestern Europe, particularly areas of southern England, such as Salisbury Plain and the North and South Downs.
To assess the impact of air quality, a chemical transport model (WRF-Chem) was employed to simulate and predict the emissions of dust pollution, specifically PM10, from the exposed lakebed.
Bolin appears in The Legend of Korra books Revolution and Endgame, two novels that together adapt the first season of the series.
Molding sand, also known as foundry sand, is a sand that when moistened and compressed or oiled or heated tends to pack well and hold its shape.
Lithalsa is a frost-induced raised land form in permafrost areas with mineral-rich soils, where a perennial ice lens has developed within the soil.
The game sprites are the same as the Carnage game, the only one that does not appear in this game but appear in Carnage is Fred Figglecorn.
Health risks There are risks in the consumption of ampo and clay that is contaminated by animal or human feces; in particular, parasite eggs, such as roundworms, that can stay dormant for years, can present a problem.
In some areas a popular size measured 20 cm × 10 cm × 30 cm (8 by 4 by 12 inches) weighing about 10 kg (25 pounds); in other contexts the size is 25 cm × 10 cm × 36 cm (10 by 4 by 14 inches) weighing about 15 kg (35 pounds).
It is noted, however, that both Mazindrani and Ganjale's and Gnanapragasam's expressions lead to identical active earth pressure values.
Revolving rivers are a surprising, uncommon way of sand pile growth that can be found in a few sands around the world, but has been studied in detail only for one Cuban sand from a place called Santa Teresa (Pinar del Rio province).
To avoid scaling in water cooled heat exchangers, water is treated by lime and or soda ash to remove the water hardness.
Brickearth requires little or no admixture of other materials to render it suitable for the manufacture of 'stock bricks'.
Apollo 15 approached the Moon on July 29, and the lunar orbit insertion (LOI) burn had to be made using the SPS, on the far side of the Moon, out of radio contact with Earth.
The Downer has four soil horizons: Surface layer: dark grayish brown loamy sand Subsurface layer: grayish brown sandy loam Subsoil - upper: yellowish brown gravelly sandy loam Subsoil - lower: yellowish brown sand and coarse sand The Downer Series was established in 1960 in Gloucester County.
After several more orbital corrections, on 11 September, the vehicle began its descent to the lunar surface.
Characteristics Soil Profile of Sassafras Horizon A (Topsoil)- Brown sandy loam: The topsoil is a bit sticky, has a fine-sized subangular blocky structure, has few roots in the soil, and can be acidic.
This fertile surface horizon, called a mollic epipedon, is the defining diagnostic feature of Mollisols.
are the asperities on opposing walls of the discontinuity fitting or non-fitting, or have the asperities been sheared off).
The largest extent of Gleysols is in northern Russia, Siberia, Canada, Alaska, China and Bangladesh.
Soil science Chronosequences used in soil studies consist of sites that have developed over different periods of time with relatively small differences in other soil-forming factors.
There are different types of hardpan, all sharing the general characteristic of being a distinct soil layer that is largely impervious to water.
The superhero Isis was re-introduced in the DC Universe in the weekly comic book 52, in issue #3 (May 2006).
Thus miners for malachite considered their finds to be owing to her blessing, and if they suffered a streak over time not finding any, they suspected they have incurred their wrath.
The underlying principle in the use of the term "soil health" is that soil is not just an inert, lifeless growing medium, which modern intensive farming tends to represent, rather it is a living, dynamic and ever-so-subtly changing whole environment.
Leaching efficiency Owing to irregular distribution of salt in the soil or to irregularity of the soil structure (figure 2), the leaching efficiency (EL) can be different from unity.
The sample would be placed in a small container, launched to Earth, and it would be curated at NASA's Lunar Sample Laboratory Facility.
See also Cope and drag DISAMATIC Foundry sand testing Hand mould Sand casting Sand rammer Ceramsite sand History There is no clear record in history to attribute the first metal casting and use of molding sand, but ancient artefacts and writings allude to a period around 3200 B.C..
Its historical use has been to serve as pasture for domesticated livestock, and was the first tropical pasture improved by breeding.
In soil classification, an Umbrisol is a soil with a dark topsoil and in which organic matter has accumulated within the mineral surface soil—in most cases with low base saturation—to the extent that it significantly affects the behaviour and utilization of the soil.
Dry quicksand is loose sand whose bulk density is reduced by blowing air through it and which yields easily to weight or pressure.
Radiocarbon dating As the mortar hardens, the current atmosphere is encased in the mortar and thus provides a sample for analysis.
Prior to the release of information about its mission, NASA correctly identified that it had been an attempted sample return mission.
Focused recharge occurs where water leaks from surface water sources (rivers, lakes, wadis, wetlands) or land surface depressions, and generally becomes more dominant with aridity.
A second interaction effect, tied to mechanical properties of soil, is the sinking of foundations, worsened by a seismic event.
The first two episodes of the series premiered on June 1, 2011, at 10:00pm, but it was moved to Sundays at 7:00pm EST.
A soil's resistance to fragmentation and crumbling is assessed in the dry state by rubbing the sample.
The term porosity is used in multiple fields including pharmaceutics, ceramics, metallurgy, materials, manufacturing, petrophysics, hydrology, earth sciences, soil mechanics, rock mechanics, and engineering.
In the wet top method, water jets located in the vibrator's tip create an annular space around the vibrator through which stone is introduced from the top.
The trademark was originally held by BEST Energies until their Australian developed production technology and intellectual property was acquired by Pacific Pyrolysis.
See also Agroecology Ecoagriculture Ecological design Ecosystem approach Forest gardening == References ==
commissioned a red mud powder-producing unit at its Lanjigarh refinery in Odisha, India, describing it as the first of its kind in the alumina industry, tackling major environmental hazards.
Concrete blocks are some of the most versatile building products available because of the wide variety of appearances that can be achieved using them.
GIS in environmental contamination is the use of GIS software to map and analyze contaminants on Earth, including soil contamination, water pollution, and air pollution.
There are over 10 known examples of dinosaur remains actually with associated "dropstones", sometimes with as many as 200 clasts.
The structure is described as angular blocky if the faces intersect at relatively sharp angles; as subangular blocky if the faces are a mixture of rounded and plane faces and the corners are mostly rounded.
A number of meteorites have been found in Sweden's Thorsberg quarry, where they sank to the bottom of a shallow sea and were entombed in limestone 470 million years ago.
The introduction of European earthworms in earthworm-free areas improved soil structure and increased to a great extent the productivity of New Zealand pastures.
Former Vertigo editor Axel Alonso hired writer Peter Milligan, best known for his surreal, post-modernist comics such as Rogan Gosh and Shade, the Changing Man, and Madman artist Mike Allred, as the new creative team for X-Force, starting with issue #116.
Description In soil taxonomy, its full description is a "Holdrege silt loam, fine-silty, mixed, mesic, Typic Argiustoll".
External Link Naidu, R., Biswas, B., Willett, I.R., Cribb, J., Singh, B.K., Nathanail, C.P., Coulon, F., Semple, K.T., Jones, K.C., Barclay, A.
For breaking that oath, he ended up in the Empire's gladiator training school, the Maw, where he fought alongside such other warriors as Miek, No-Name the Brood, Korg, and the Hulk.
In "The Malachite Box" collection in general, the Mistress serves as a "magic helper" to the characters, and in "The Malachite Casket" in particular, the beggar woman (or "sorceress") who comes visit to instruct Tanyushka is evidently the Mistress of the Copper Mountain in disguise.
Clay-based subsoil has been the primary source of material for adobe, cob, rammed earth, wattle and daub, and other earthen construction methods for millennia.
However, in case the ongoing discussions under the Carcinogens Directive will result in setting of a binding Occupational Exposure Limit for trichloroethylene for protection of workers; this conclusion may be revisited.
A fertilizer injector is a piece of farming equipment used by farmers to reduce labor when fertilizing a large number of crops.
Such technical classifications are developed with specific applications in mind, such as soil-water relationships, land quality assessment or geotechnical engineering.
This combination can help loosen clay particles bound into a hardpan by the actions of hard salts such as iron, calcium carbonate and sodium, by promoting their mobility through a higher pH while proving a suitable source of exchanging minerals (the gypsum).
This forced a wait of a month or two for Hayabusa to stabilize by conversion of precession to pure rotation, after which the rotation axis needed to be directed toward the Sun and Earth within a specific angular range.
The current mission architecture envisions two launches around 2028 by the Long March 5 carrier rocket.
In figure 3, leaching curves are shown for different leaching efficiencies, as assumed in the leaching model SaltMod with data from the Mashtul pilot area.
Biological nitrogen fixation Biological nitrogen fixation (BNF, performed by the organisms called diazotrophs) is a very old process that probably originated in the Archean eon when the primitive atmosphere lacked oxygen.
Coulomb's friction hypothesis is used to determine the combination of shear and normal stress that will cause a fracture of the material.
It is found in central and eastern Missouri and west-central and southwestern Illinois on upland ridgetops, backslopes, and benches adjacent to the Missouri and Mississippi rivers and their major tributaries.
It is a useful and necessary term because, especially when initially found in archaeological excavation, it may be difficult to distinguish, for example, fragments of bricks from fragments of roofing or flooring tiles.
Netallophytes are the basis of phytomining, a proposed technology for collecting valuable metals without excavating.
In popular culture Quicksand is a trope of adventure fiction, particularly in film, where it is typically and unrealistically depicted with a suction effect that causes anyone or anything that walks into it to sink until fully submerged and risk drowning.
As for other proteins clay particles absorb the enzymes exuded by microbes, decreasing enzyme activity while protecting extracellular enzymes from degradation.
Applications of Hyperaccumulators Phytoremediation Hyperaccumulating plants are of interest in the context of phytoremediation: to detoxify contaminated soils.
Physically moving soil from accumulation areas (e.g., depressions) to the eroding portion of the field (e.g., hilltops), a practice termed soil landscape restoration, can mitigate the impact of tillage erosion by restoring soil productivity at the eroding portion of the field.
At Station 9, an area known as the "Vacant Lot", which was believed to be free of ejecta from South Ray, they spent about 40 minutes gathering samples.
As a mineral groundcover its benefits include erosion control, water conservation, weed suppression, and aesthetics.
These instruments would be operated during the approach, hovering and descent phases for science purpose, for landing site selection and for spacecraft safety during near-surface manoeuvres.
A Psamment has no distinct soil horizons, and must consist entirely of material of loamy sand or coarser in texture.
Daisy Johnson appeared as a main character in Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D., the first television series in the Marvel Cinematic Universe, portrayed by Chloe Bennet.
The genome sequence revealed about two dozen gene clusters (including several paralogs) coding for a complex catabolic network for anaerobic and aerobic degradation of aromatic compounds.
Also, the value of a specific yield may not be fully realized for a very long time due to complications caused by unsaturated flow.
In Minoan Crete, at the Knossos site, there is archaeological evidence that sun-dried bricks were used in the Neolithic period (prior to 3400 BCE).
This works because gypsum salts, although not "soft", are still water permeable and have a larger, more open structure, the results of which do not promote as hard a matrix as was replaced.
They are often referred to as skeletal soils or, in the United Nations FAO soil classification, as lithosols.
The swelling can cause structures to heave or lift, and the shrinking can uneven settling of sediment underneath foundations, potentially causing the structure to fail.
Damage is quite often caused by differential swelling which is caused by pockets of wet soil situated right next to dry soil.
They are bounded by flat or slightly rounded surfaces that are casts of the faces of surrounding peds.
First described in 1917 in Phelps County, Nebraska, the soil has a significant role in corn, grain and soy farming.
It was made popular during the late nineteenth century, and had by 1930 became more popular than lime mortar as construction material.
Biological The preferred scenario for good tilth is as the result of natural soil-building processes, provided by the activity of plant roots, microorganisms, earthworms and other beneficial organisms.
Recently, these properties have been also determined using remote sensing data derived from Interferometric synthetic-aperture radar.
Once on the screen, combined raking and sifting machines use the same technology as normal sifters to remove unwanted debris from the sand.
The diffusion can be accelerated and intensified by upwelling, such as the motion from turbulent eddies, and cooling processes.
Once a robotic arm selects and retrieves the samples (mass about 0.2 kilograms (0.44 lb)), a small rocket in the top of the lander would blast the ascent vehicle for rendezvous and docking with the orbiter for the soil sample transfer into the return vehicle.
Aunt Wu (voiced by Tsai Chin) was an elderly citizen of Makapu Village who worked as a fortune teller.
In this iteration, she shares a connection with Captain Marvel/Shazam, as both characters draw their powers from divine sources.
Following the use of the Shadow Reflector by the sorcerer Lagen in the Slayers Special story "Mirror, Mirror", there is also a copy of Naga called Shadow Naga that does have her skills, but has a completely opposite personality (a shy, meek and extremely modest girl).
Another environmental issue is the disposal of waste through the water flux such as dairy farms, industrial, and urban runoff.
He was persistent in studying these results and eventually isolated cadmium metal by roasting and reducing the sulfide.
Recent research has highlighted the significant influence of compaction conditions on the mechanical behaviour of soils used in engineering applications.
atropurpureum is often found by roadsides, in vegetation around waterways and coastal regions, and on disturbed ground.
In February 2025, the recommended mission themes for New Frontiers program mission 5 were revised, with the SPA basin lunar sample return concept proposed to no longer be eligible.
The extension owes a great deal to Nicholas Ambraseys whose doctoral thesis on the seismic stability of earth dams at Imperial College London in 1958 formed the basis of the method.
Block slumps are a type of translational slump in which one or more related block units move downslope as a relatively coherent mass.
Charlottetown soil series is the name given to a deep fine sandy loam soil which has developed under forest vegetation on glacial till.
The temporal nature of LS is time-transgressive, meaning that initiation and peak rates of deposition can take place at different times within a fluvial system, as well as at different times between regions.
Because this assumption cannot always be tested for environmental study sites, the use of chronosequences in field successional studies has recently been debated.
The Avatar agreed to surrender to the Red Lotus in exchange for the Air Nation, who were being held captive by the Red Lotus.
They may be somewhat more resistant to common diseases and most generally prefer cool, shadier climates.
As in the case of Andacollo in Chile some technosols are created on purpose to cover up wastes such as mine tailings.
Prior to the canal age, it had been used to line pits for tanning, and by Dutch drainage engineers in the Fens.
Sand particles are the largest at 2 to 0.05 millimetres (0.0787 to 0.0020 in) in diameter and clay the smallest at less than 0.002 millimetres (7.9×10−5 in) in diameter.
Meyerhof (1951, 1963) proposed a bearing-capacity equation similar to that of Terzaghi's but included a shape factor s-q with the depth term Nq.
Differing concepts of pedogenesis, and differences in the significance of morphological features to various land uses can affect the classification approach.
The crew could not tell where it was coming from, and the issue had the potential to become serious.
It is one of a range of different soil moisture regimes, such as: aquic moisture regime, aridic moisture regime, udic moisture regime and xeric moisture regime.
A Technosol in the World Reference Base for Soil Resources is a Reference Soil Group that combines soils whose properties and pedogenesis are dominated by their technical origin.
Adrianna Tomaz's abilities As an ordinary human, Adrianna demonstrates proficiency in diplomacy, politics, and leadership whose progressive ideals improved the welfare of Kahndaq and whose popularity exceeded her younger brother as a leader.
Potassium fixation often occurs when soils dry and the potassium is bonded between layers of 2:1 expansive clay minerals such as illite, vermiculite or montmorillonite.
The coal, typically referred to in as sea-coal, which is present at a ratio of less than 5%, partially combusts in the surface of the molten metal, leading to the offgassing of organic vapors.
For example, in northwestern Europe anthrosols commonly have plaggic or terric (strongly affected by manure) horizons, and together they cover some 500,000 hectares.
Therefore, the organic gardener must be careful regarding the sourcing of mushroom compost; if in doubt, samples can be analyzed for contamination – in the UK, the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs is able to advise regarding this issue.
See also Coarse woody debris Detritus Forest floor Leaf litter sieve Leaf mold (a type of compost) Soil horizon References External links forestresearch.gov.uk
Building codes Building codes take frost depth into account because of frost heaving, which can damage buildings by moving their foundations.
Although not sterile, subsoil is relatively barren in terms of soil organisms compared to humus-rich topsoil.
Popular Korean cartoonist Derek Kirk Kim reacted to the film's casting by comparing it to a hypothetical film which depicts white actors wearing traditional African clothing and eating traditional African food in traditional African huts.
Web series Daisy Johnson / Quake appears in Marvel Rising: Initiation, voiced again by Chloe Bennet.
He broke this vow when the Emperor ordered Hiroim to kill his adolescent son, due to the belief that he would bring ruin and devastation to Sakaar.
Cord wood generally needs to be "seasoned" or "dry" before it can be burned cleanly and efficiently.
Plant habitat The plant life that grows on the Seitz soil consists of an Engelmann spruce/subalpine fir or Rocky Mountain Douglas-fir canopy with a sparse understory of grasses, forbs, and shrubs.
A discontinuity can be, for example, a bedding, schistosity, foliation, joint, cleavage, fracture, fissure, crack, or fault plane.
This solar-powered vehicle was designed to take advantage of Itokawa's very low gravity by using an internal flywheel assembly to hop across the surface of the asteroid, relaying images from its cameras to Hayabusa whenever the two spacecraft were in sight of one another.
As soon as the volume change results in a state of maximum void, the mobilised dilatancy angle, ψ m {\displaystyle \psi _{m}} , is automatically set back to zero.
See also Anthrepts from a different soil classification system Necrosol Technosols Terra preta Pre-Columbian agriculture in the Amazon Basin References Further reading Howard, J.
In the Caesalpinioideae, the flowers are often zygomorphic, as in Cercis, or nearly symmetrical with five equal petals, as in Bauhinia.
The nascent carbon trading market that sponsors CO2 sequestration projects could therefore help supplement the farmers' income while supporting a decrease in the pace of deforestation and the development of a more sustainable agriculture.
Researchers also discovered trace amounts of iron and glass beads in the sand, originating from the intense heat unleashed by munitions explosions in the air and sand.
The carbon in urea is described as sp2 hybridized, the C−N bonds have significant double bond character, and the carbonyl oxygen is relatively basic.
For example, after many experiments one batch of sand may stop showing revolving rivers (just as singing sand eventually stops singing), which suggests that the decay is connected to certain properties of the surface of the grains that degrade by continued friction.
While it can negatively affect some organisms by removing shoreline vegetation, the rock can provide important refuge for invertebrates and small fish.
It grows most actively, and thus provides the most desirable appearance, in spring and fall, and requires moderate watering during summer.
The spectrometer was also designed to detect far-UV radiation emitted by the Sun that had been reflected off the lunar surface.
It results in the creation of biochar, which can then be mixed with biomass such as crop residues, food waste, or manure and buried in the soil to bring about the formation of terra preta.
During Volume 5 of the light novels, it is hinted that Megumin begins developing romantic feelings for him and vice versa.
The soil series has an extent of 367,853 acres (148,865 ha), primarily in northern and central Nevada, and extending into southern Idaho and Oregon.
If selected for development, the mission would have launched in 2024, cruise to the comet would take 7 years, including two Earth gravity assists.
To try and prevent thixotropy from fracturing the sustainability of the concrete, catatonic polymer began to be used in order to counteract the thixotropy, however this agent is needed in order to allow the mixing of the clay and cementitious material.
When deployed properly and in combination with other permaculture principles, it can generate healthy, productive, and low maintenance ecosystems.
Further weathering yields material that easily crumbles into gravel-sized particles known as "grus", which may then break down further to produce a mixture of clay and silica sand or silt particles.
A chief task in beach cleaning strategies is finding the best way to handle waste matter on the beaches, taking into consideration beach erosion and changing terrain.
EXZIT, as zodiacal light gets significantly weak beyond the asteroid belt, would have enabled the telescope to observe the cosmic infrared background.
dams and reservoirs within upland regions, sediment detention basins) or reduce the river channel's physical complexity (e.g.
If unsuitable material is left in place and backfilled, it may compress over a long period under the weight of the earth fill, causing settlement cracks in the fill or in any structure supported by the fill.
These abilities have to usually be taught to him by other characters before he can use them, and he cannot learn advanced skills.
He sent most of his earnings to his family, unaware that his manager, Alex Cuspin, was embezzling them.
Green rust, a layered double hydroxide (LDH) of Fe(II) and Fe(III) can be found as the mineral fougerite in gleysoils.
Kastanozem (also known as "chestnut soil") is one of the 32 Reference Soil Groups of the World Reference Base for Soil Resources (WRB).
Catenas can also develop on low relief hillslopes, but because less potential energy is available, the redistribution of mass can be dominated by subsurface flow of plasma, a combination of dissolved and suspended solids in soil water.
Freed from the chore of walking sometimes the whole day to collect the water, farmers are able to improve food production and generate surplus income.
In Europe, grazing is frequent, while in North America, there is some evidence that fire may also prevent encroachment by forest.
Limited leaching in aridisols often results in one or more subsurface soil horizons in which suspended or dissolved minerals have been deposited: silicate clays, sodium, calcium carbonate, gypsum, or soluble salts.
Historically, quincha has been utilized in the Spanish and Portuguese colonies throughout the different regions of the Americas.
Some Cast Earth walls do soak up water, however, depending upon the porosity of the earthen materials used.
Dryness, and in places also stoniness and/or the presence of a shallow petrocalcic horizon, limit the suitability of Calcisols for agriculture.
It was one of the original 26 Great Groups and remained as one of the 28 groups in the 1988 revised version.
In 2016, Screen Rant ranked Quake 6th in their "10 Most Powerful Inhumans In The Marvel Universe" list.
It has also been observed that the angle of internal friction decreases as the effective normal stress is decreased.
The heap is situated less than 6 kilometres (4 mi) NE from the centre of the Kladno on right slope of shallow valley of the Dřetovický potok stream, in a place where borders of the three municipalities meet.
CRAterre: Centre de recherche architectural en terre, French university research organisation dedicated to unfired earth construction
The ESP will increase if irrigation causes salty water (even of low concentration) to gain access to the soil.
A thixotropic fluid is a fluid which takes a finite time to attain equilibrium viscosity when introduced to a steep change in shear rate.
The example of this approach consists first in a structural component, the recurring pattern of certain soils in a landscape transect in which every chain element has its place in the chain, a soil has it in a landscape.
The resistance offered by the soil to an object pushing against it is referred to as "passive pressure".
Although he patented the method in Belgium the same year, the patent applied only within that country.
Causes of delayed or absent development Unweatherable parent materials – sand, iron oxide, aluminium oxide, kaolinite clay.
When a powerful nuclear meltdown happens at the reactor, Superman stops the radiation from spreading, but is knocked unconscious by an explosion.
Location The sample would be obtained from the Aristarchus plateau, located in the midst of the Oceanus Procellarum, a large expanse of lunar mare.
Others are man-made, such as hardpan formed by compaction from repeated plowing, particularly with moldboard plows, or by heavy traffic or pollution.
Electrodes can be installed above grade within a fenced area or below grade to allow for unrestricted surface access to the treatment area.
Decomposed granite is available in various colours, originating from the natural spectrum of granite hues from different quarry sources.
by an excavator using the convex outside of its scoop, or, historically, by driving cattle across the area).
However, the connection between the physical, chemical (and possibly biological) properties of the grains in a specific sand, the nature of the inter-grain interactions, and the emergence of the revolving rivers is still an open question.
The spacecraft would have deployed a 100 kg lander on the surface of a 20–30 km Trojan asteroid to analyze its subsurface volatile constituents, such as water ice, using a 1-meter pneumatic drill powered by pressurized nitrogen gas.
Bed armor is directly involved with this equations, when the force on the stream increases the water acting on the sediments can also increase.
Positive Displacement Injector - Positive Displacement injectors operate by filling a tank, with a fixed volume, with a concentrated solution that is injected into the water line which has a constant flow rate.
Kulikova theorized that her place in the Ural mythology is most likely connected with the perception of the mountains as "magical space".
Introducing ripraps creates a rocky environment that can affect a waterbody's ecology by making the ecosystem more heterogeneous.
Determine the elemental and mineralogical properties of the target body and their variations with geological context on the surface.
Since soil is regularly left bare during agricultural operations, rills may form on farmland during these vulnerable periods.
Soil microbes decompose it through enzymatic biochemical processes, obtain the necessary energy from the same matter, and produce the mineral compounds that plant roots are apt to absorb.
What If Hiroim was featured in two "What If?" issues: In "What if the Hulk died and Caiera had lived?", Hiroim participates in conquering Earth with Caiera as queen.
That is, the soil is at the point of incipient failure by shearing due to unloading in the lateral direction.
inserted these genes into Brassica napus, or Rapeseed plants, resulting in high uptake efficiency and sequestration of Cd compared to the wild-type rapeseed.
Characteristics of Alternative Moisture Regimes Soil Moisture regimes affects soil genesis (formation), and the usage and maintenance of soil condition, so they are used as a soil classification criterion for soils with similar properties and Morphology.
Leaching curves The leaching process in a salty soil to be reclaimed is illustrated in the leaching curves of figure 1, derived from data of the Chacupe pilot area, Peru.
Each type of soil has a threshold value, a slope angle below which water velocity cannot produce sufficient force to dislodge enough soil particles for rills to form.
K τ {\displaystyle K_{\tau }} can be measured in the lab for weak rocks, but river erosion rates in natural geological scenarios are often slower than 0.1 mm/yr, and therefore the river incision must be dated over periods longer than a few thousand years to make accurate measurements.
state soils References External links usda.gov https://web.archive.org/web/20070527180603/http://www.mt.nrcs.usda.gov/soils/mtsoils/
He then joins a superhero team from the 41st century, who come back in time to offer him membership.
Sand skiing (occasionally sand-skiing) is a sport and form of skiing in which the skier rides down a sand dune or strides across a beach on skis.
In the seminal work of Peter Erasmus Müller on Danish forest soils, which described mor for the first time, this humus form was called beech peat by analogy with sphagnum peat.
Applications Forest sciences Since many processes in forest ecology take a long time (decades or centuries) to develop, chronosequence methods are used to represent and study the time-dependent development of a forest.
Case studies Although ISC is a relatively new remediation procedure several groups have used it with great success.
Predrilling may be required in dense soil or may be used to reduce the amount of ground displacement during installation.
Size and components Components include silicon dioxide SiO2 42.7%, calcium oxide CaO 0.98%, magnesium oxide MgO 2.5%, manganese oxide MnO 0.15%, iron oxide Fe2O3 8.4%, and aluminium oxide Al2O3 25.1%.
More recently, some producers have developed turf mixes that include wildflowers and other native plants.
Realizing that they need a massive power source to propel the Bubble to the 30th century, Cosmic Boy harnesses energy from Earth's magnetic field.
Two cameras, a stellar camera and a metric camera, together comprised the mapping camera, which was complemented by a panoramic camera, derived from spy technology.
The deformation characteristics of a soil or rock mass are also influenced by the shear strength of the discontinuities.
Their actual dimensions are 3⁄8 inch (9.5 mm) less than the nominal dimensions (to allow for 3⁄8-inch mortar joints between blocks in any orientation).
Therefore, the term soil health can only be understood within the context of the user of the term, and their aspirations of a soil, as well as by the boundary definition of the soil at issue.
Consequently, they tend to be drier than wet meadows or forested swamps and permit water intolerant plant species to grow on the hummocks.
In rotational slumps, the main slump block often breaks into a series of secondary slumps and associated scarps to form stair-step pattern of displaced blocks.
Archived 2007-10-09 at the Wayback Machine Soils of Prince Edward Island Agriculture Canada Research Branch, 1988
In Namibia, biochar is under exploration as a climate change adaptation effort, strengthening local communities' drought resilience and food security through the local production and application of biochar from abundant encroacher biomass.
Strength and usage The final compressive strength of sandcrete can be as high as 4.6 N/mm2, which is much less than concrete's 40 N/mm2.
The steeper the slope, the more rows of evenly spaced horizontal contour level fiber rolls are used.
Simplot UAN-32 Product Data Sheet Poole Chemical UAN 32% Solution Tom Dorn, Extension Educator, Nitrogen Sources University of Nebraska Fact Sheet 288-01
Because the accumulation of debris is annual, the moraines do not get very large and stand only a few metres high.
This soil is primarily located in broad flatwoods in irregularly shaped areas ranging from 5 to 500 acres in size.
See also Origin of the Moon Stardust, a 1999 cometary coma sample return mission References External links MoonRise Fact Sheet
A fiber roll is a temporary erosion control and sediment control device used on construction sites to protect water quality in nearby streams, rivers, lakes and seas from sediment erosion.
In the past, these calculations were done by hand using a slide rule and with methods such as Simpson's rule.
On a steeper slope in the middle of a catena, erosion (surface runoff) is faster, so facets are typically thinner and drier.
It is associated with humid, tropical climates, such as those found in Brazil, and often supports forested areas.
Crushed marble sold or used totaled 11.8 million tons, the majority of which was ground very fine and used as calcium carbonate.
There are extensive brickearth deposits in Kent, particularly on the North Downs dip slope and on the Hoo peninsula, sections of the Medway and Stour valleys.
Stubble-mulching refers to leaving the stubble or crop residue essentially in place on the land as a surface cover during a fallow period.
She is also often known as Naga the White Serpent, which is a more literal translation from Japanese (白蛇; usually read as shirohebi, lit.
She was later given her own TV tie-in book the following month, titled The Mighty Isis, which ran for two years, out-surviving the TV series.
There is about 500 times more protactinium in sandy soil particles than in water, even when compared to water present in the same sample of soil.
It was intended to perform a soft landing on the Moon, collect a sample of lunar soil, and return it to the Earth.
Mechanical parameters can also be driven from such models and of course it needs further works and researches.
It provides an ongoing supply of water to plants between periods of replenishment (infiltration), so as to allow their continued growth and survival.
In temperate and cold climates, litter tends to accumulate and decompose slower due to a shorter growing season as decomposers work faster in environments with a stable temperature.
References Article at the Soil Liquefaction web site of the University of Washington Vibro Replacement Stone Columns by Hayward Baker Aggregate Piers / Vibro Stone Columns by Subsurface Constructors
Case Study: A socio-economic effort at Community Development in Kitui, Kenya On a global scale climate change and effects there of have exerted tremendous pressure on the biophysical, economic, political and social systems that govern the sustenance of a majority of African populations.
Smellerbee (voiced by Nika Futterman in the animated series, portrayed by Wes Valarao in the live-action series) is a Freedom Fighter.
If settling is predicted to be significant, the cap design may have to be designed thicker than originally projected to allow the settling to not alter the integrity of the cap.
silica and silicate impurities) to produce liquid slag that floats and can be poured off from the much denser molten metal (i.e., iron).
They are rich in humus, and originally covered with early maturing native grasslands vegetation, which produces a characteristic brown surface layer in the first meter in depth.
Road leading to Healey Dell, asbestos cloth." The developers responded that they had been aware of contamination in the northern portion of the site, but their testing report submitted to the council did not include this area as there had been no intention to develop there.
Water passes through a fiber roll while leaving behind the sediment on the uphill side of the roll, thereby reducing sediment erosion.
Use in practice: If one is to adopt critical state theory and take c' = 0; τ {\displaystyle \tau } p may be used, provided the level of anticipated strains are taken into account, and the effects of potential rupture or strain softening to critical state strengths are considered.
In Oceania, Umbrisols are found in the mountain ranges of Papua New Guinea and southeast Australia and in the eastern parts of South Island, New Zealand.
Another route of development is via drained meadows and fens which progress to shrub swamps as a transitional state to forested swamps.
Simply applied orientation factors (0), like (Jr/Ja)1x0.7 for set J1 and (Jr/Ja)2x0.9 for set J2, provide estimates of overall whole-wedge frictional resistance reduction, if appropriate.
Shear strength The shear strength along a discontinuity in a soil or rock mass in geotechnical engineering is governed by the persistence of the discontinuity, roughness of discontinuity surfaces, infill material in the discontinuity, presence and pressure of gasses and fluids (e.g.
It assumes that the soil is cohesionless, the wall is frictionless, the soil-wall interface is vertical, the failure surface on which the soil moves is planar, and the resultant force is angled parallel to the backfill surface.
The basic requirement for recognition of an orthent is that any former soil has been either completely removed or so truncated that characteristics typical of all orders other than entisols are absent.
One of the largest known slumps occurred on the south-eastern edge of the Agulhas Bank south of Africa in the Pliocene or more recently.
As revealed in the comic sequel, The Search, Azula managed to convince Zuko to let her accompany him in the search for their mother.
The next morning, Lin took up Suyin's trusted advisor Aiwei advice to visit the city's acupuncturist to deal with her stress.
For example, bedding planes are the result of a repeated sedimentation cycle with a change of sedimentation material or change in structure and texture of the sediment at regular intervals, folding creates joints at regular separations to allow for shrinkage or expansion of the rock material, etc.
Rampart: the actual wall of the fort which can be made of earth or masonry, is topped by a parapet for the defenders to fire over, and usually slopes away from the ditch (the "exterior slope").
when the Factor of Safety, FOS, became equal to 1) and providing information about the collapse state but no information about the induced deformations.
In molecular biology, cadmium is used to block voltage-dependent calcium channels from fluxing calcium ions, as well as in hypoxia research to stimulate proteasome-dependent degradation of Hif-1α.
Extensive numerical analysis carried out by Mylonakis and Gazetas have attributed SSI as one of the reasons behind the dramatic collapse of Hanshin Expressway in 1995 Kobe earthquake.
In the aftermath of the battle, Korra kisses Asami out of relief, leading to Bolin, Mako, Jinora and Opal discovering their relationship.
Summary of hydrologic and physical properties of rock and soil materials as analyzed by the Hydrologic Laboratory of the U.S.
When inorganic nutrients are applied to the soil, however, the nutrients' drainage in anthrosol exceeds that in fertilized ferralsol.
Contrast with asperity in materials science Materials science recognizes asperities ranging from the sub-visual (normally less than 0.1 mm) to the atomic scale.
A chronosequence describes a set of ecological sites that share similar attributes but represent different ages.
Marketed in the UK by Imperial Chemical Industries under the trade name Trilene it was coloured blue with a dye called waxoline blue in 1:200,000 concentration to avoid confusion with the similar-smelling chloroform.
A normal parachute landing might have damaged the delicate samples, so the mission design called for a mid-air retrieval of the sample return capsule.
With such soil fertile soil comes premium forage for livestock which is why South Dakota also comes in top ten for beef, sheep, hog, and honey production.
As it flows, the amount of runoff may be reduced in a number of possible ways: a small portion of it may evapotranspire; water may become temporarily stored in microtopographic depressions; and a portion of it may infiltrate as it flows overland.
Despite the low value of its basic products, the crushed stone industry is a major contributor to and an indicator of the economic well-being of a nation.
Schmitt realized that what was needed was an expert teacher who could fire the astronauts' enthusiasm, and contacted Caltech geologist Lee Silver, whom Schmitt introduced to Apollo 13's commander, Jim Lovell, and to its Lunar Module pilot, Fred Haise, then in training for their mission.
Soil with a high shrink–swell capacity is problematic and is known as shrink–swell soil, or expansive soil.
The slag cools to become a stone-like material that is commonly crushed and recycled as construction aggregate.
The simplest form of sheet mulching consists of applying a bottom layer of decomposable material, such as cardboard or newspapers, to the ground to kill existing vegetation and suppress weeds.
A catena in soil science (pedology) is a series of distinct but co-evolving soils arrayed down a slope.
Larger animals Numerous reptiles, amphibians, birds, and even some mammals rely on litter for shelter and forage.
They occur throughout the world, being especially abundant in the deserts of Africa and Australia and on the ancient landforms of eastern South America.
The tillage erosion component of WaTEM simulates the soil redistribution in DEM using a diffusion-type equation and assumes that all soil translocation occurs in the direction of steepest slope, irrespective of the pattern of tillage.
The mission concept was submitted in May 2017 by a team from NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center in response to the New Frontiers program call for mission 4, but did not pass the initial down selection.
This version is a member of the Omegas, who join the Brotherhood of Mutants in opposing a mutant cure, only to be killed by Iceman.
After Unalaq's death in the season 2 finale "Light in The Dark", the South gained independence from the North and the Council of Elders officially appointed Tonraq as the first Southern Chief.
Since these processes occur relatively fast in comparison to weathering of most carbonate- and gypsum-free materials, rendzinas represent a transitory stage in soil development.
It belongs to the podzol soil group and is one of the most important soils in its area of occurrence, supporting extensive forests and a fair number of farms.
The name has two origins: the Russian term 'каштановые почвы', 'каштанозем', where 'каштановые' is a shade of brown derived from the word "каштан" (kashtan), "chestnut" and refers to the color of its husk, and the Latin term castanea (chestnut).
Thereby soil bulk density is always less than soil particle density and is a good indicator of soil compaction.
The loose deposition of the silt and clay particles in the marine environment, allowed an unusual flocculation to take place.
However, grains, vegetables, and starchy roots and tubers are consumed in much greater quantity in the U.S., and are the source of the greatest dietary exposure there.
Therefore, U-Pb age can be treated as the age of crystallization, if the mineral/sample itself has not undergone high temperature metamorphism after formation.
The shear strength of a discontinuity in a soil or rock mass may have a strong impact on the mechanical behavior of a soil or rock mass.
Together, the two spacecraft will seek to obtain samples of Martian rocks and soil and then return the cached samples to Earth.
It emphasizes the creation of agricultural systems that model and mimic natural ecosystems, promoting biodiversity, more efficient resource use, and long-term soil health.
In 1988, the EPA discovered tons of TCE that had been leaked or dumped into the ground by the United States military and semiconductor industry (companies including Fairchild Semiconductor, Intel Corporation, and Raytheon Company) just outside NASA Ames in Moffett Field, Mountain View, California.
See also China National Space Administration (CNSA) Chinese space program Chinese Lunar Exploration Program Planetary Exploration of China Tianwen-1 NASA-ESA Mars Sample Return References == External links ==
In addition to their regular litter-removing uses, beach and sand cleaners have been used to clean up after natural disasters.
Heavy equipment usually comprises five equipment systems: the implement, traction, structure, power train, and control/information.
Flood routing Flood routing is a procedure to determine the time and magnitude of flow (i.e., the flow hydrograph) at a point on a watercourse from known or assumed hydrographs at one or more points upstream.
It can be used to form solid walls that need not be reinforced with a steel frame or timber framing, unless extra seismic reinforcement is necessary.
Natural system approaches to soil classification, such as the French Soil Reference System (Référentiel pédologique français) are based on presumed soil genesis.
Description The term aleurite is mainly used in Russian geology, where it is described from the Baltic and Kara Seas, and as a derivative in Mongolia, such as the Dushihin Formation, where it occurs in lenses.
Contamination by metals and other contaminants has become a significant environmental problem after industrialization across many parts of the world.
Aluminium, for example, has a density of about 2.7 grams per cubic centimeter, but a piece of aluminium will float on top of quicksand until motion causes the sand to liquefy.
An alvar is a biological environment based on a limestone plain with thin or no soil and, as a result, sparse grassland vegetation.
During the EVAs, Conrad and Bean went as far as 1,350 feet (410 m) from the LM, and collected 73.75 pounds (33.45 kg) of samples.
Calcareous grassland is an important habitat for insects, particularly butterflies and ants, and is kept at a plagioclimax by grazing animals, usually sheep and sometimes cattle.
Aridisols dominate the deserts and xeric shrublands, which occupy about one-third of the Earth's land surface.
K 0 ( N C ) = 1 − sin ⁡ ϕ ′ {\displaystyle K_{0(NC)}=1-\sin \phi '} Jaky's coefficient has been proved later to be also valid for normally consolidated granular deposits and normally consolidated clays.
Quicksand, also known as sinking sand, is a colloid consisting of fine granular material (such as sand, silt or clay) and water.
Introduction A foundation is the part of a structure which transmits the weight of the structure to the ground.
Important qualifiers Vitric – Andosols with limited soil formation, still containing significant amounts of volcanic glasses.
Mapping soils involves field work traversing the landscape and digging many holes to observe and classify the soil in various locations.
Opposition to landfills Between 2007 and 2008, the waste commissioner Guido Bertolaso, (the head of the civil protection department), planned to open a landfill but this was opposed by residents of Chiaiano.
Types Palustrine shrub swamp Circumneutral shrub swamp Notable shrub swamps Canaan Valley, West Virginia Cranberry Glades, West Virginia See also == References ==
Pore size varies considerably; the smallest pores (cryptopores; <0.1 μm) hold water too tightly for use by plant roots; plant-available water is held in ultramicropores, micropores and mesopores (0.1–75 μm); and macropores (>75 μm) are generally air-filled when the soil is at field capacity.
These seven parameters derive DRASTIC summary index score, which determines which are more prone to contamination than other.
If significant amounts of glasses are still present, they show vitric properties and receive the Vitric qualifier.
The ultimate bearing capacity, on the other hand, is the maximum pressure that can be applied to the soil before it fails.
References External links Genesis home page by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory Genesis mission profile by NASA's Solar System Exploration "Impact video".
The Romans learned that pozzolana added to lime mortar allowed the lime to set relatively quickly and even under water.
Micro-fractures that cut along the sealing unit and the reservoir rock can greatly affect the hydrocarbon migration.
Some of the contaminants that create the greatest impact to surface waters arising from runoff are petroleum substances, herbicides and fertilizers.
Due to incomplete combustion (pyrolysis) the resulting residue matter charcoal can be utilized as biochar to improve the soil fertility.
Knowledge about underground geometry of the sedimentary basins comes from geological observations, geophysical measurements and from drilling.
Aerodynamic porosity is less than visual porosity, by an amount that depends on the constriction of holes.
The terra rossa classification was still, as of 1997, a part of the national soil classifications of countries such as Israel and Italy.
Microorganisms and animals The peregrine earthworm Pontoscolex corethrurus (Oligochaeta: Glossoscolecidae) ingests charcoal and mixes it into a finely ground form with the mineral soil.
In 1988, the sand on Omaha Beach was discovered to contain man-made metal and glass particles deriving from shrapnel; 4% of the sand in the sample was composed of shrapnel particles ranging in size between 0.06 millimetres (0.0024 in) and 1 mm (0.039 in).
When used for brick making, it was often dug from small temporary holes and baked into bricks on the spot in brick clamps, and used for building nearby.
The mechanisms of silt formation have been studied extensively in the laboratory and compared with field observations.
To start the charcoal burning is harder than starting a wood fire and charcoal lighter fluid may be employed.
Crops that can be successfully cultivated, if the climate allows, include tea, rubber tree, oil palm, coffee and sugar cane.
By weight, its mineral composition is about 40–40–20% concentration of sand, silt and clay, respectively.
Scientific research Writing in Nature, physicist Detlef Lohse and coworkers of University of Twente in Enschede, Netherlands allowed air to flow through very fine sand (typical grain diameter was about 40 micrometers) in a container with a perforated base.
Puebloan peoples built their adobe structures with handsful or basketsful of adobe, until the Spanish introduced them to making bricks.
Red Mediterranean In pedology, red Mediterranean soil, also known as terra rossa (Italian for "red soil") is a soil classification that has been formally superseded by the formal classifications of systems such as the FAO soil classification, but that is still in common use.
It consists of very deep, poorly drained soils that formed in 40 to 60 inches (1.5 m) of loess or other silty material and in the underlying stratified, loamy glacial drift.
This version is often busy traveling the universe and maintaining the Legion's reputation, which strains his relationship with them, particularly Lightning Lad.
After the spacecraft was mounted on the launch vehicle on August 24, it was rolled out to Pad 39-A on August 28.
Ultimate bearing capacity is the theoretical maximum pressure which can be supported without failure; allowable bearing capacity is the ultimate bearing capacity divided by a factor of safety.
Neglecting SSI is reasonable for light structures in relatively stiff soil such as low rise buildings and simple rigid retaining walls.
Alfalfa for hay and seed, winter wheat, barley, and grasses for hay and pasture are the principal crops grown on these soils.
Examples of older earthwork fortifications include moats, sod walls, motte-and-bailey castles, and hill forts.
At a smaller scale, plant roots extend into voids (macropores) and remove water causing macroporosity to increase and microporosity to decrease, thereby decreasing aggregate size.
These soils are well suited to outdoor recreation and the growth of forest-related products in moderately steep or more gently sloping areas.
Many of the mounds were the result of multiple episodes of mound construction, with the mound becoming larger with each event.
Even though Spanish and Portuguese are closely related languages, in this case, the Portuguese equivalent is completely different: Pau-a-pique.
Another common costing strategy is to cost all repairs to the equipment and only frequently replaced wear items are excluded from the equipment cost.
Gravel occurs naturally on Earth as a result of sedimentary and erosive geological processes; it is also produced in large quantities commercially as crushed stone.
Depression-focused recharge If water falls uniformly over a field such that field capacity of the soil is not exceeded, then negligible water percolates to groundwater.
Such soils are called Molliturbels or Mollorthels and provide the best grazing land in such cold climates because they are not acidic like many other soils of very cold climates.
Mass haul planning Engineers need to concern themselves with issues of geotechnical engineering (such as soil density and strength) and with quantity estimation to ensure that soil volumes in the cuts match those of the fills, while minimizing the distance of movement.
The raised fields give rise to a typical landscape with sharp breaks in elevation and are called Plaggenesche in Germany or Es in Dutch.
However, to do this, his investigations mostly target industrial contaminants, driven largely by the industries themselves.
See also 1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus – 2005 non-fiction book by Charles C.
Lohse concluded that: In nature, dry quicksands may evolve from the sedimentation of very fine sand after it has been blown into the air and, if large enough, might be a threat to humans.
We even have a character called Dead Girl." Milligan and Allred would regularly play with killing off the title characters: In their first issue, they wiped out the entire team, with only two exceptions.
This is because Apple's not an individual fruit, but rather a set of clones sent to the kitchen one after another after a clone's death.
Anthrosols can be found worldwide, though they tend to have different soil horizons in different regions.
Where the river water and ground water are repeatedly used in the extensively irrigated river basins, the river water available in lower reaches is often rendered not useful in agriculture due to high RSC index or alkalinity.
The planning application summary claimed: "of particular note is the absence of any asbestos contamination".
Since a black sand beach is made by a lava flow in a one time event, they tend to be rather short lived since sands do not get replenished if currents or storms wash sand into deeper water.
These include conglomerates of the Triassic basins of eastern North America and the New Red Sandstone of south Devon.
The soil moisture control section of ustic soil is dry, in some or most parts, for at least 90 or more cumulative days in a normal year.
Clay colloids stability Quick clay has a remolded strength which is much less than its strength upon initial loading.
A classic example of using chronosequences to study ecological succession is in the study of plant and microbial succession in recently deglaciated zones.
A wooden stick is used to beat the soil into a solid hard substance, where these spirals of dirt are removed with a dagger made of bamboo.
The name is connotative of uncoated silt and quartz grains which are present in layers rich in organic matter.
A sample of the asteroid which was estimated to weigh at least 2 ounces (57 grams) was collected by OSIRIS-REx following the touch down.
Depending on the degree of physical sorting, mechanical abrasion and dissolution, a detrital zircon grain may lose some of its inherent features and gain some over-printed properties like rounded shape and smaller size.
Mahé Freydier, a french ski instructor, set a Guinness World Record in speed sand-skiing on 27 September 2025 on Nazca dunes, in Peru.
Installation Each horizontal contour level row of fiber rolls is installed on slopes, ending with one at the base of the slope, below an active construction area before soil disturbance (earth moving) begins.
SVE is particularly amenable to contaminants with higher Henry’s Law constants, including various chlorinated solvents and hydrocarbons.
These soils are brighter than Chernozems, and are related to the Mollisols in the USDA soil taxonomy.
A layer (at most 15 cm thick) of weed-free, woody and leafy matter is added in an attempt to mimic the forest floor, or O horizon.
To maintain the rigid nature of wychert it must not become too dry for risk of crumbling, nor too wet for risk of turning to a slime.
Compacting garbage after it is collected allows more waste to fit inside the collection vehicle, meaning fewer trips to a dump or transfer station are required.
Productivity The high water table and sandy texture are severe limitations for urban development and recreational uses.
232Th decays very slowly, with its half-life being 14.0 billion years, about three times the age of the Earth.
Some are more appropriate for soil compaction than others, while some techniques are only suitable for particular soils or soils in particular conditions.
Ice growth requires a water supply that delivers water to the freezing front via capillary action in certain soils.
These spartina and other common marsh grasses use a gas transport system found in the stems and roots of the plants.
The most common binder since the early 20th century is Portland cement, but the ancient binder lime (producing lime mortar) is still used in some specialty new construction.
pringlei), juniper sedge (Carex juniperorum), lakeside daisy (Hymenoxys acaulis), ram's-head lady's-slipper (Cypripedium arietinum), and dwarf lake iris (Iris lacustris).
Vibro stone columns or aggregate piers are an array of crushed stone pillars placed with a vibrating tool into the soil below a proposed structure.
"Soils of South Dakota." The Northern State University CUEST Center for Environmental Education, Aberdeen, SD., 1997.
As a result, more rigorous methods have been developed and are used nowadays in order to overcome these shortcomings.
Hence, the modern seismic design codes, such as Standard Specifications for Concrete Structures: Seismic Performance Verification JSCE 2005 stipulate that the response analysis should be conducted by taking into consideration a whole structural system including superstructure, foundation and ground.
Finally, analyses have indicated that recent genetic flux appears to have played a more significant role in the evolution of some large genomes, such as LB400's, than others.
However, there was no significant difference in post-knowledge test scores in recreating the visual map.
For this reason, “hard quality” (硬質 kōshitsu) akadama from Ibaraki is often preferred by bonsai growers for its durability and long-term stability.
This layer is called a supra-permafrost ("above the permafrost") talik; it differs from traditional taliks, which are usually associated with water bodies, in that a supra-permafrost talik occurs because the ground that thaws in summer does not fully refreeze in winter.
Semi-distributed routing Semi-distributed models such as Muskingum–Cunge family procedures are also available.
Because of the clean water, animals like oysters and crabs living in the Bay can thrive here due to the soil.
It can be shown that a material failing according to Coulomb's friction hypothesis will show the displacement introduced at failure forming an angle to the line of fracture equal to the angle of friction.
Hayabusa bridged the gap between ground observation data of asteroids and laboratory analysis of meteorite and cosmic dust collections.
An estimated 200 million hectares of gleysols are found in the tropics, mainly in the Amazon region, equatorial Africa, and the coastal swamps of Southeast Asia.
Profile The Seitz soil series consists of very deep, well drained, slowly permeable soils that formed in colluvium or slope alluvium derived from igneous, sedimentary, and volcanic rocks.
Builders using immediate techniques like earthbag, cob, or rammed earth may prefer approximate crushing tests on smaller samples that can be oven-dried and crushed under a small lever.
Soil vapor extraction (SVE) is a physical treatment process for in situ remediation of volatile contaminants in vadose zone (unsaturated) soils (EPA, 2012).
Technosols are found throughout the world, e.g., at or near cities, roads, mines, refuse dumps, oil spills, and coal fly ash deposits.
The contaminated area is depicted by the green shape while the electrodes are depicted by the numbered circles.
These horizons are studied and characterized by examining a combination of properties and characteristics, instead of, say, a single component or parameter.
Lunar mare basalts formed through partial melting of the mantle, thus serve as probes of the structure and composition of the interior.
Biochar product differentiation Significant product variations due to differing technology, process conditions, and feedstock compositions, require that care must be taken when comparing research between biochar products.
The division between Mimosoideae and Faboideae is dated as occurring between 59 and 34 million years ago and the basal group of the Faboideae as 58.6 ± 0.2 million years ago.
Formation This type of soil, whose topsoil becomes bleached due to continual waterlogging, is often formed on sand-rich material over dense, sandy-loamy to silty-clayey subsoil—also called Sandkerf in German—in cool, moist climatic zones.
A trencher installs an unperforated pipe followed by a synthetic or organic wrapped perforated pipe.
Natural water contamination Soda ash [Na2CO3] can be present in natural water from the weathering of basalt which is an igneous rock.
Furthermore, much like Sokka, Bolin has had relationships with various young female characters within the show.
Along with chernozems, kastanozems, and phaeozems, these four soil groups form a set of soil groups that are mainly found in steppe (aka pampa in South America or prairie in Northern America) regions.
Integral An integral discontinuity is a discontinuity that is as strong as the surrounding soil or rock material.
Western terracotta Antiquity–1700s Greeks used terracotta for capitals, friezes, and other elements of their temples like at Olympia or Selenius.
2009 pdf Measuring and modeling hydrological processes of sand-storage dams on different spatial scales, Quilis et al.
They have a relative high level of exchangeable calcium ions and secondary carbonates starting within 70 cm of the mineral soil surface.
The additional requirements of the strict definition of the steady state over and above the critical state viz.
See also Earth house Kiva Quiggly hole Zemlyanka Vernacular architecture References Further reading Ahler, Stanley A.; Thiessen, Thomas D.; Trimble, Michael K.
Nitrogen-fixing bacteria are capable of metabolising N2 into the form of ammonia or related nitrogenous compounds in a process called nitrogen fixation.
After the plug is removed, the sand pours from the box, causing the centering to move downwards, diminishing the pressure from the arch, and enabling to ultimately remove it.
History Quincha is a Spanish term widely known in Latin America, borrowed from Quechua qincha (kincha in Kichwa).
In 1875, he expanded his patent to include structural applications such as bridges, creating one of the first steel-reinforced concrete bridges.
The "Mulberry harbours" used in the D-Day landings were made of ferrocement, and their remains may still be seen at resorts like Arromanches.
Small pores are critical for water retention and help a crop endure dry periods with minimal yield loss.
In many industrial cases, pretreatment of wastes is required, to minimize escape of pollutants into sanitary or stormwater sewers.
Despite this, it sparked the first interest and concern into this matter, and has become the most cited source of evidence throughout the crisis.
Technique A model for sheet mulching consists of the following steps: The area of interest is flattened by trimming down existing plant species such as grasses.
The match against Oxford Universities in 2000 (which included Oxford Brookes University) is included here in the Oxford University totals.
The Rochester Raiders won a perfect season in 2008 in the Continental Indoor Football League, but withdrew from that league during the playoffs in a dispute.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international rugby union, rugby sevens, rugby league and wheelchair rugby tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
After Sri Lanka awarded Test status on 17 February 1982 as eighth Test playing nation, they had to wait until 6 September 1985, where Sri Lanka recorded their first Test win by beating India, in the second match of the series by 149 runs at the P Sara Oval, Colombo.
Long course (50m) Men Women Mixed relay Short course (25m) Men Women Notes References General Bermudian Long Course records 26 January 2026 updated Bermudian Short Course records 30 November 2025 updated Specific External links Bermuda Amateur Swimming Association website BASA records subpage
Natural track events All competitive disciplines *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
The Buffalo Sabres have the longest active playoff series win drought at 18 seasons and also formerly had the longest active post-season appearance drought at 14 seasons, which is now held by the Detroit Red Wings at 10 seasons.
Skaters usually begin rotating the jump as soon as they leave the ice, but generally have less than two-thirds of a second to complete their rotation.
This article lists all-time records for the National Lacrosse League, as well as the predecessors Major Indoor Lacrosse League and Eagle Pro Box Lacrosse League.
The Canadian Junior Open is divided into eight categories — Boys Under-19, Boys Under-17, Boys Under-15, Boys Under-13, Girls Under-19, Girls Under-17, Girls Under-15 and Girls Under-13.
If the number of gold medals is identical, the silver and bronze medals are used as tie-breakers (in that order).
Olympic medalists Amateur Era 1896 1900 1904 1908 Outdoor Indoor 1912 Outdoor Indoor 1920 1924 Open Era 1988 1992 1996 2000 2004 2008 2012 2016 2020 2024 Athlete medal leaders Players currently active in bold.
They are ordered by their seating capacity, that is the maximum number of spectators that the stadium can accommodate in seated areas.
The following are the national records in athletics in the Dominican Republic maintained by Federación Dominicana de Asociaciones de Atletismo (FDAA).
Some clubs will only have black and white, others will include a brown belt for advanced kyū grades and at the elementary school level it is common to see a green belt for intermediate levels.
The Boston Celtics hold the longest consecutive NBA Finals appearance streak with ten appearances between 1957 and 1966.
Despite being considered an example of flawed technique, it is not currently penalised by the technical panel.
Older than Genoa and Torino is Associazione Sportiva Dilettantistica Fanfulla, a sports club founded in Lodi in 1873, but its football section was established thirty-five years later in 1908.
The system is designed to be both predictive and retrodictive in nature, although in practice it has proven to be more strongly predictive than retrodictive.
Elo's original K-factor estimation was made without the benefit of huge databases and statistical evidence.
This is a list of current women's professional boxing rankings, which includes the latest rankings by each one of the sport's four major sanctioning bodies, as well as other well-regarded sites and entities.
Hines went on to win the 1968 Olympic final in 9.9 seconds, rounded down from his FAT of 9.95, making it the first non-wind-assisted electronic sub-10-second performance.
In some forms of one-day cricket, such as Twenty20, a Super Over or a bowl-out is used as a tiebreaker to decide a result that would otherwise be a tie.
Organization These records have been registered in the official competitions organized by the different federations which have managed this sport at a mondial level, across the time (ISS, FISV, FIS, ...).
Sent to the Kentucky Derby, the colt fractured a pastern in his right foreleg during the race and finished sixteenth.
FIDE awarded Sultan Khan the Honorary Grandmaster title on February 2, 2024, almost 58 years after his death and over 120 years after his birth in 1903.
A winning team therefore always earns more points than its initial rating, increasing its overall average rating.
Stud record Retired to stud duty, Vanlandingham met with modest success as the sire of 151 winners of 508 races.
The following are the national records in athletics in Slovakia maintained by its national athletics federation: Slovak Athletic Federation (SAZ).
Three-point field goal percentage and free throw percentage are usually kept as additional statistics.
Calvin Smith recorded a world record of 9.93 seconds in Colorado Springs, Colorado on 3 July 1983, at altitude, and became the first sprinter to run under ten seconds twice, in August that year.
Indoor volleyball, beach volleyball and sitting volleyball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Since the first round of the playoffs normally consists of eight series, there will always be sixteen teams on this list (of the thirty-two teams in the NHL).
In motion picture venues, the "limit of seating capacity is determined by the maximal viewing distance for a given size of screen", with image quality for closer viewers declining as the screen is expanded to accommodate more distant viewers.
Defensive rating or defensive efficiency is a statistic used in basketball to measure an individual player's or team's efficiency at preventing the other team from scoring points.
Results from before 2017, during which FIBA Asia and FIBA Oceania held separate championships, will continue to figure into the rankings (until 2025 via "time decay").
b The Bears were named the NFL Champions in 1932 after winning an unofficial playoff game played indoors due to extremely cold weather.
The three longest championship droughts in history were ended recently by the Red Sox (85 seasons, ending in 2004), the White Sox (87 seasons, ending in 2005), and the Cubs (107 seasons, ending in 2016).
vs Edmonton, Oct 12, 1991) 561 – Sam Etcheverry (for Montreal vs Hamilton, Sept 29, 1956) 558 – Kent Austin (for Saskatchewan vs B.C., Aug.
The IBJJF requires a practitioner remain a purple belt for a minimum of 18 months prior to achieving a brown belt.
Among the current 32 NHL teams, ten have never won the Stanley Cup, with the oldest of them being the Vancouver Canucks and the Buffalo Sabres (53 seasons).
Stats Perform (formerly STATS, LLC and STATS, Inc.) is a British sports AI company formed through the merger of Stats and Perform.
Sportradar will also use its integrity services to monitor betting on all NFL games and will have the right to distribute live audio-visual feeds of NFL games to sportsbooks in certain international markets.
Polls do not play a role in determining CFP participants; instead, these teams are chosen by a selection committee similar to that used in the NCAA basketball tournament selection process.
This is a list of the oldest documented football competitions, played at school, club, national and international levels.
The awards include the Sir Garfield Sobers Trophy for Cricketer of the Year, which is considered the most prestigious award in world cricket.ICC Sponsors As indicated by the logo of these awards, LG, a leading electronic brand, sponsored these awards along with other ICC sponsors.
Also, Bangladesh took 4 years and 2 months from the date of first Test to win a Test, best to only New Zealand, South Africa and India.
1982–83 European Cup After rioting by fans in a semifinal at Anderlecht in Belgium the previous April, Aston Villa were forced to begin their defence of the European Cup at an empty Villa Park in a September 1982 first round match, with the match kicking off at 2:30 pm on a Wednesday afternoon.
Spectator sports have built their own set of culture and traditions including, in the United States, cheerleading, team mascots, and pre-game and half time entertainment such as fireworks, particularly for big games such as competition decider events and international tests.
The following represents the golfers who have won five or more tournaments in a season on the European Tour.
This list includes all of the leaders in total rebounding of each full season (the regular season + the playoffs combined) of the Greek Basketball League (GBL), starting with the 1986–87 season.
Peng Cheng from China won two silver medals and one bronze medal: one silver medal partnered with Zhang Hao (2015) and another silver medal and one bronze medal partnered with Jin Yang (2019–2020).
GTG – Game-tying goals – Number of game-tying goals (that is, the last goal scored in a tie game) the player has scored.
Every single one of these lists are assembled by a committee but since the 90s, other parties have experimented with computerized rankings, but these are sometimes regarded as incapable of accounting for all of boxing's quirks and subtleties.
Men Key to tables: Awaiting ratification Not ratified or later rescinded by ICF Record not kept by ICF Women Mixed References External links World best times 26 August 2025 updated
They are ordered by seating capacity, the maximum number of spectators the stadium can accommodate in baseball configuration.
The match in 2008 against Cambridge University UCCE is included here in the Cambridge University totals.
Notes and references External links World Skate Europe Rink Hockey (official website) rinkhockey.net
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international field hockey and indoor field hockey tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
The former governing body for the trampoline, the International Trampoline Federation (FIT), incorporated into the FIG in 1998, also organized World Age Groups competitions from 1973 to 1996.
This is a list of countries according to the best position achieved by athletes of these nations at major world tournaments in roller hockey.
Through the 2001 iteration of the ESPY Awards, ceremonies were conducted in February of each year to honor achievements over the previous calendar year; awards presented thereafter are conferred in June and reflect performance from the June previous.
If all numbers are the same, the teams receive the same placement and are sorted in alphabetical order by the female partner's last name.
The Bryans have retained a record seven different tournaments, except Rome and Canada, on a record ten occasions.
Green (November 23, 2014) 3 – Eric Rogers (November 18, 2018) 3 – Kenny Lawler (November 9, 2024) Most interception return touchdowns, career playoffs 2 – Tony Golab 2 – Marvin Coleman 2 – Glenn Rogers Jr.
This list includes all of the top scorers of each full season (the regular season and the playoffs combined) of the amateur status Greek Basketball Championship, from when the league first added a playoffs round, following the conclusion of the 1986–87 regular season.
Records can be set by registered competitors in the open category, as well as in youth and masters age groups.
This chart uses the hit totals that Major League Baseball officially recognizes, as maintained and provided by the Elias Sports Bureau; they are derived from the annual official league statistics, even when those totals have been proven by later research to be in error.
Cycling Cross-country In the 2017 season the Swiss mountain biker Nino Schurter won 6 out of 6 races and additionally at the World Championships he won the gold medal at the single and at the mixed race and the Cape Epic.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international water polo tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
In fourth place, breaking his own European record of 9.97 seconds, was Linford Christie with a time of 9.92 seconds.
Solving method Thai's solution was based on The Ideal Solution, published in 1980 by the Ideal Toy Company.
The International Weightlifting Federation restructured its weight classes in 2018, nullifying earlier records and again in 2025.
If the total number of medals is identical, the gold, silver and bronze medals are used as tie-breakers (in that order).
The rating points of each game (above) are weighted by the game's weight (W), which is the product of the time decay, competition/region, competition stage, and round weights, as follows.
In April 2019, Vista Equity Partners announced its intent to acquire Perform Content, the former sports data subsidiary of Perform Group.
If p A + p B = 1 {\displaystyle p_{A}+p_{B}=1} , Log5 will give A a ( p A ) 2 / ( ( p A ) 2 + ( p B ) 2 ) {\displaystyle (p_{A})^{2}/((p_{A})^{2}+(p_{B})^{2})} chance of victory.
Most gold stars Gold stars (kinboshi) are awarded to maegashira ranked wrestlers who defeat a yokozuna.
These are indicated with various systems of coloured belts, with the black belt indicating a practitioner who has attained a certain level of competence.
The first was set on 15 December 2014, in Carson, California, with a distance of 44.173 km (27.448 mi).
All-time leading scorers in total points scored Counting all games played through the end of EuroBasket 2025, and not counting qualification games.
The conference has been sold out every year and has become the premier venue for sports analytics discussion.
In cricket, a bowling analysis (sometimes shortened to just analysis, especially in the phrase innings analysis, and also referred to as bowling figures) usually refers to a notation summarising a bowler's performance.
In tennis, the ATP Masters is an annual series of nine top-level tennis tournaments featuring the elite men's tennis players on the ATP Tour.
List of largest association football clubs List of largest Australian rules football clubs See also Sports club List of fan-owned sports teams References "Instagram".
Stud record After his racing career, Adios Butler was retired to stud at Fair Chance Farms in Washington Court House, Ohio.
The following are the national records in athletics in Iraq maintained by Iraqi Amateur Athletic Federation (IAAF).
{\displaystyle p_{B,P}={\frac {p_{B}\times p_{P}\times (1-p_{L})}{(p_{B}\times p_{P})-(p_{L}\times p_{B})-(p_{L}\times p_{P})+p_{L}}}.} == References ==
These records do not include results from a team's playing time in the National Association of Professional Base Ball Players or while members of any minor league.
Gary Anderson holds the record for highest Professional Darts Corporation live streamed match average (123.83), at Players Championship 15 in 2024.
The International Rules also allow for recognition of a record swimming time in the first lap of a relay race or an immediate distance as part of a longer swimming distance.
Current records Men Women Historical records Men (1998–2018) Women (1998–2018) References External links Marshall Islands Weightlifting Federation official website
Alex Rodriguez, Cristiano Ronaldo, Stephen Strasburg, Manny Machado, Deshaun Watson, Stephen Curry, and Giannis Antetokounmpo are on the list two times each.
Results from two major judo world tournaments approved by the International Judo Federation were taken into account: the World Judo Championships and the judo tournament at the Summer Olympic Games.
Individual statistics GP – Games played – Number of games the player has set foot on the ice in the current season.
Despite many video games using different systems for matchmaking, it is common for players of ranked video games to refer to all matchmaking ratings as Elo.
Basketball and 3x3 basketball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
World records See also Jeff Varasano, unofficial Rubik's Cube United States record holder in 1981 References External links The first world championship Rubik Books Video at YouTube : Minh Thai's 1st World Record Rubik's Cube championship 1982
Summary against each opponent In the following table the County Championship summary is limited to matches played from 1891.
Chicago Blackhawks (NHL) In 2009 the Chicago Blackhawks turned to an outside company to produce analytical assessments for them.
They are the best results set in competition by athletes aged 13 to 17 throughout the entire calendar year of the performance.
Olympics Sports Reference added a site for Olympic Games statistics and history in July 2008, including statistics from the first games to the most recent.
Records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts by the Saudi Arabian Weightlifting Federation.
As of March 19, 2022, Bangladesh have played 409 ODI matches, winning 148 matches and losing 252 and 9 matches had no result.
CFL attendance has been depressed during the middle of the 2010s by short-term issues, most notably the lack of stadium availability in Toronto and Hamilton.
Juggling world records comprise the best performances in the fields of endurance and numbers juggling.
The term was coined in a 2014 article by sportswriter Jon Bois for American football scores in the National Football League (NFL), and is primarily used in this context; it has also been applied sparingly across other sports leagues.
Attendance in the 30,000 range was once quite common for major international matches held outdoors in the 1940s and 50s in Moscow's Lenin Stadium.
The European Athletics Indoor Cup, held from 2003 to 2008, is the highest level indoor track and field competition to have used a placing table system.
Mosaic Stadium was constructed to house the Saskatchewan Roughriders while BMO Field in Toronto, originally built for Toronto FC of Major League Soccer, was renovated to accommodate the Toronto Argonauts.
Amongst defunct franchises, the Chicago Stags have the highest win–loss record percentage, with (.612).
Wherever World Standard appears in the list below, no qualified weightlifter has yet lifted these weights in a sanctioned competition.
Notts are thought to have mostly played under Sheffield Rules in their early days, though certain matches are recorded as being played according to "Nottingham Rules".
Other early sporting bodies dedicated to playing football include "The Gymnastic Society" of London which met regularly during the second half of the eighteenth century to pursue two sports: football and wrestling.
BASA keeps records for both for males and females, for long course (50m) and short course (25m) events.
In November 2020, Sportradar announced extending its I&I capabilities to specifically supporting more US clients.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international luge tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
When Daniel Bigham rode 54.723 km (34.003 mi) to break Wiggins's British national record on 1 October 2021 he was ineligible to attempt the UCI record as he was not part of the anti-doping system, estimating it would cost him £8,000.
See also Jim McKay Turf Sprint Pimlico Race Course List of graded stakes at Pimlico Race Course == References ==
The World's Longest Basketball Game held from August 6 to 11, 2021, which doubles as a charity event for Western New York mental health organizations, surpassed the record set by the Philippine basketball game.
Antonis Nikopolidis is second on the list and the only Greek player to have celebrated 11 leagues: 5 with Panathinaikos and 6 with Olympiacos.
Records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts by the Marshall Islands Weightlifting Federation (AWF).
Five franchises have never been to the NBA Finals, tied with the National Hockey League for the highest number among the major North American sports.
Though, in the period of Bangladesh team broken that record to stay winless for 47 matches in row, which consisted of the current world record of 23 straight losses from 1999 to 2002.
Background Sired by the Standardbred Adios and out of a broodmare named Debby Hanover, Adios Butler was trained by Paige West and driven by Clint Hodgins in 1959.
Its purpose is to analyse Premier League football matches and was contracted by Sky Sports for their television broadcasts of the 1996–97 season.
WNBA Finals appearance droughts a The Dallas Wings last appeared in the 2008 WNBA Finals as the Detroit Shock.
Beginners remain at white belt, and gray, yellow, or orange belts either revert back to white or can be promoted to blue belt at the professor's discretion.
The ten charter members of Major League Soccer were all new clubs created shortly before the league began play in 1996.
Titles won by country Note: Titles, won by a team of players from same country, count as one title, not two.
It specifies, "For areas having fixed seating without dividing arms, the occupant load shall not be less than the number of seats based on one person for each 18 inches (457 mm) of seating length".
Meanwhile, the 7th-place through 10th-place teams in the two conferences enter a NBA play-in tournament, introduced during the 2020 NBA Bubble, to determine their playoffs seeding.
Teams may elect to play more aggressively due to conditions or with the aim of increasing their net run rate in the event a tiebreaker is required for further qualification within a tournament but these attempts may instead cause a team to give away their wickets making overly aggressive shots.
A number of world records and Olympic records were set in various events at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London.
The following are the national records in athletics in the Cayman Islands maintained by Cayman Island's national athletics federation: Cayman Islands Athletic Association (CIAA).
The Washington Capitals played the Chicago Blackhawks outdoors in the Winter Classic at Nationals Park in Washington, D.C.
The world record progression of the men's team sprint as recognised by the International Skating Union: Team sprint was first introduced on the calendar of the 2015-16 World Cup.
During the finals of ranking tournaments, only games played by a host team in its own country count as "home" games; all others are treated as neutral-site games.
ESPN has been the presenting sponsor since 2010, and the conference has garnered national attention through media outlets such as Sports Illustrated, The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, The Boston Globe, Time, BusinessWeek, NBC Sports, Fox Sports, Pardon the Interruption, and Forbes.
For most events, an average of five is taken, but for 6x6x6, 7x7x7, 3x3x3 fewest moves, 4x4x4 blindfolded and 5x5x5 blindfolded, a mean of three is taken.
See also World and Paralympic records set at the 2016 Summer Paralympics World and Olympic records set at the 2024 Summer Olympics Notes == References ==
All-time streaks WNBA Playoffs appearance streaks Appearance streaks updated through the 2025 playoffs.
1941 — All three jumps on 2 March in Planica in this chronological order; Lahr (111 m), Krauß (112 m) and Mair (109 m with touch) were false claimed as world records.
This is a listing of the horses that finished in either first, second, or third place and the number of starters in the Dinner Party Stakes, at Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore, Maryland, an American grade 2 thoroughbred horse race run at 1-1/8 miles on the turf.
^5 The IWF website still lists Tatiana Kachirina's records of 155 kg in the snatch, 193 kg in the clean and jerk and 348 kg in total, who was later disqualified for doping.
They have worked with the K League, World Rally Championship, and Borussia Dortmund, to deliver their OTT platforms.
The average is calculated from the highest points scored for this number of events over the past 52 weeks: Current world ranking Note: The weekly ranking for the men's squash (world ranking) is taken directly from the Professional Squash Association (PSA) official website.
By 1976, six other men had equalled the 9.9 hand-timed record, though none of their performances had an FAT mark.
The fastest times in the swimming events at the Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games are designated as the AIMAG records in swimming.
Rugby union, rugby sevens, rugby league and wheelchair rugby *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Continuous clubs Supported by the Guinness Book of Records, and founded by staff at Guy's Hospital in London in 1843, the Guy's, Kings and St Thomas' RFC would be the oldest "football" club of any code.
GF – Goals for – Number of goals the team has scored GA – Goals against – Number of goals scored against the team OTW – Overtime Win SOW – Shoot Out Win ROW – Regulation plus Overtime Wins, not including shootouts.
Individual sport *Sports (and classes, disciplines or forms of a sport) shown in bold are currently on the program of the Olympic Games.
The points earned by a winning team increases as the initial rating (quality) of the opposition increases, within the constraints of earning at least its own initial rating + 10, and no more than its own initial rating + 90.
Jozef Sabovčík's attempted quadruple toe loop at the 1986 European Championships was better and it helped him to win gold medal, but it was not recognized either, although it is regularly mentioned as the inventor of a quadruple jump in Czech or Slovak language media.
Indoor Men Women References General World Athletics Statistic Handbook 2022: National Outdoor Records World Athletics Statistic Handbook 2022: National Indoor Records OAA: National Records Oceania 5 November 2020 updated Specific == External links ==
World Skate Europe league ranking The coefficients of the league ranking take into account the performance of each association's representative teams in European competitions between the past four seasons.
In 2019, Bangladesh won the first multi-team international tournament when they defeated West Indies in the final at Malahide Cricket Club Ground, Dublin.
Each winner is selected by a national panel of sports information and media relations directors, broadcasters, writers, and other dignitaries.
Progress to top division The table for the fastest progress shows wrestlers with the fewest tournaments from their professional debut to their top division debut since the six tournaments a year system was introduced in 1958.
On March 25, 1988, at the 1988 World Championships in Budapest, Hungary, Canadian skater Kurt Browning landed the first ratified quadruple jump (a quadruple toe loop) in competition (with three turns on the landing).
As of 2022, the IBJJF allows coaches to ignore this minimum time-requirement if the practitioner has won an adult world championship at purple belt.
Quads require an average rotational frequency of around 340 rpm, with the peak rotational frequency usually exceeding 400 rpm.
Women's national teams ranking As the men's ranking, the unofficial women's ranking is also calculated by using the Elo rating system.
In fact, one study of European association football matches using a Monte Carlo methodology found that once ability was accounted for, a team was actually slightly less likely to win or lose when it had experienced the same result in the previous match.
The Buffalo Bills, Detroit Lions and Miami Heat entered the top 50, replacing the Boston Red Sox, New Orleans Saints, Dallas Mavericks, Manchester City, Bayern Munich and Paris Saint-Germain from the previous year's ranking.
The Hungarian records in swimming are the fastest ever performances of swimmers from Hungary, which are recognised and ratified by the Magyar Úszó Szövetség (MÚSZ).
The following are the national records in speed skating in the Czech Republic maintained by the Czech Speed Skating Federation.
Men Women Mixed relay References General European Championships records 13 August 2022 updated Specific External links SwimRankings.net, LEN's Official results database.
See also NBA records Notable half-court shots List of Hail Mary passes in American football, shows some of the longest touchdowns in NFL history == References ==
Before Pete Rose broke Ty Cobb's record for career hits, for example, Tris Speaker, Stan Musial, and Hank Aaron had each reached the number two spot in succession.
Records can be set at intermediate distances in an individual race and for the first leg of a relay race.
Once they had passed an elementary level of instruction, they were promoted to fifth kyū (五級, gokyū), when they would adopt the white belt.
Cyclists from North Korea have never earned medals at the UCI World Championships, and this is reflected on this list.
Distinction from unbeaten streak A winning streak is different from an unbeaten streak in sports where tied results are possible, and so a result is neither a win nor a loss, as in association football.
Results See also List of major achievements in sports by nation References Sports123: Inline Hockey (archived) Sports123: Roller Hockey (archived)
These were matches played at Taunton between East Africa and Sri Lanka, after both teams had played in the 1975 World Cup, and a West Indies A v India A match in 2018.
According to this list, 6 events are from WWC's annual Aniversario supercard, which in the late-1980s had been held exclusively at the Juan Ramón Loubriel Stadium which typically has a seating capacity of at least 22,000 people or more.
In some countries junior practitioners have an extra system in place to show the progress in between two kyū grades.
Shockwave in August 2002, an event co-promoted by PRIDE and K-1 at the National Stadium, was attended by 91,107 spectators.
Records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts.
Her claim on the women's altitude record was challenged by Annie Smith Peck in 1908 after she made an ascent of the north peak of Huascarán, which she claimed was higher than Pinnacle Peak.
The list is dominated by Puerto Rico's oldest promotion, the World Wrestling Council, which has controlled the industry in the country since its founding in 1973.
Although the term "personal best" is increasingly used in official sports statistics, it can also refer to an unofficial best individual performance.
However, of the men to attempt the record since the rule change, only five were on a UCI World Tour team at the time: Jens Voigt of Trek Factory Racing, Rohan Dennis of the BMC Racing Team, Alex Dowsett of the Movistar Team, Victor Campenaerts of Lotto Soudal, Filippo Ganna of Ineos Grenadiers.
The Sammarinese records in swimming are the fastest ever performances of swimmers from San Marino, which are recognised and ratified by the San Marino Swimming Federation (FSN).
A player who makes double digits in a game in any two of the PTS, REB, AST, STL, and BLK statistics is said to make a double double; in three statistics, a triple double; in four statistics, a quadruple double.
For averages of five solves, the best time and the worst time are dropped (Shown in parentheses), and the mean of the remaining three solves is taken.
L – Losses – Games the goaltender has lost (A goaltender is credited with a win or loss when he is either on the ice when – or was pulled for an extra attacker immediately before – the game-winning goal was scored).
Although not all received positive grades of execution, during his free skate program at the 2025 World Figure Skating Championships in Boston, Ilia Malinin landed all six types of quadruple jumps.
Long Course (50 m) Men Women Mixed relay Short Course (25 m) Men Women Mixed relay Notes References General Macanese Records 10 January 2026 updated Specific External links Swimming Association of Macao website
In others, there are multiple competitions, for example leading English football clubs compete in four competitions each season, but only the league competition is listed below.
Sometime the players statistics are divided by minutes played and multiplied by 48 minutes (had he played the entire game), denoted by * per 48 min.
As of 8 May 2023, Bangladesh have played 137 Test matches; they have won 17 matches, lost 102 matches, and 18 matches were drawn.
This article contains lists of achievements in major cycling competitions according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by cyclists representing different nations.
SC Magdeburg is the only handball club who has won the European club title while representing two different countries (e.g.
This article is a summary of 2,789 first-class cricket matches played by Somerset County Cricket Club to the end of the 2025 season.
Rating points per game A team's final rating points for a particular game is the sum of basis, home/away, and opposition ranking points as follows.
Often their performance is expressed in terms of overs bowled, how many of those overs are maidens (i.e.
Existing stadiums, most notably Commonwealth Stadium in Edmonton and BC Place in Vancouver, have undergone major upgrades.
In second place was Leroy Burrell who also broke the former world record, which had been his at 9.90 seconds.
This is a List of New Zealand Women's Twenty20 International cricket records, that is record team and individual performances in by the New Zealand women's national cricket team in Twenty20 International (T20I) cricket.
The Guatemala records in swimming are the fastest ever performances of swimmers from Guatemala, which are recognised and ratified by the Federacion Nacional de Natacion, Clavado, Polo Acuatico y Nado Sincronizado (FENADEGUA).
Long Course (50 m) Men Women Mixed relay Short Course (25 m) Men Women References External links FENADEGUA web site
No quadruple-quadruple combination (quadruple jumps followed by quadruple loop or toe loop) or sequences (quadruple jumps followed by any quadruple jumps except for quadruple loop or toe loop) have yet been ratified.
Olympic and World records set by sport Archery Athletics Cycling Shooting Swimming Men Women Weightlifting Women Men World records set by date == References ==
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international indoor handball, beach handball and field handball tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
The suits seemed to improve the performance in those with larger physiques, boosting performance in some athletes more than others, depending on morphology and physiology.
Women's UCI hour record attempts and record holders (since the rule revision in 2014) Statistics Para-cycling records The new regulations for the making of accepted hour record attempts were extended to para-cycling in 2016.
World Age Group competitions were not considered for the making of this list because these events are not officially titled World Championships.
Overview As professional boxing has four major sanctioning bodies (WBA, WBC, IBF, WBO) each with their own champions, the sport doesn't have a centralized ranking system.
A spectator sport is a sport that is characterized by the presence of spectators, or watchers, at its competitions.
The larger the exponent, the farther away from a .500 winning percentage is the result of the corresponding Pythagorean formula, which is the same effect that a decreased role of chance creates.
Calculation In November 2019, FIBA implemented a new ranking system for women's national teams which uses a game-based system similar to the ranking system implemented for men's teams implemented in November 2017.
This is a list of golfers who have won five or more events on the Asian Tour, which was founded in 1995.
A post-season series win streak is continued by making the post-season and winning at least the first-round series of the playoffs.
The tables are pre-sorted by total number of first-place results, second-place results and third-place results, then most first-place results, second-place results, respectively.
Kathleen McKane Godfree (one gold, two silvers, and two bronzes) and Venus Williams (four gold, one silver) are tied as the record holders for the most Olympic medals in tennis.
The Masters series along with the Grand Slam tournaments, the ATP Finals championship and the Olympic Games are considered the top-tier events of men's tennis, referred to by the ATP as the "Big Titles".
The rule was adopted for interleague and Climax Series (the postseason three-team stepladder playoff to determine the team playing in the Japan Series) when they were adopted.
After he won the Suburban Handicap and the Jockey Club Gold Cup, his owner supplemented him for a fee of $360,000 to the November 2 Breeders' Cup Classic.
Early years The progression begins with Reg Birkett's try, scored in the first international rugby match of any code in 1871 when England succumbed to Scotland at Raeburn Place.
This is usually done to preserve energy in a tournament, after a devastating loss in the previous round of the tournament, or in the final round when no prize money is at stake.
Louis Cardinals, and the 2022 AL Wild Card standings, which shows the Toronto Blue Jays and Seattle Mariners six games and four games, respectively, ahead of the Tampa Bay Rays.
Current records Men Women S1 record history Men Women S1 best performers of all times Men Women References "SPEED SKIING WORLD RECORDS FROM 1874 TO 1999".
Track events Field events Road events Canoeing Cycling Powerlifting Swimming More than 30 records in swimming had been set in the event.
The Los Angeles Chargers have the lowest playoff win–loss percentage of all-time, respectively holding a record of 12–21 (.364).
Most notably, he highlights a score of 10–1 as being one of, if not the most, unlikely NFL scorigami that can be achieved within the bounds of human possibility.
Tennis In most professional tennis matches, a tiebreaker rule applies in each set to avoid lengthy matches, as happens quite frequently if the traditional tennis rule for winning a set is followed.
Formula One attendance represents cumulative weekend attendance; in 2025, the highest race-day attendance was 168,000 at the British Grand Prix.
Year-by-year Multiple-time leaders See also NBA records Advanced statistics in basketball Basketball statistics References Dean Oliver (2004).
In the 2014–15 and 2015–16 seasons, the Greek Basket League's regular season PIR leader was considered to be an unofficial statistical "MVP award", that was based solely on this statistic.
The Sri Lanka national cricket team represents Sri Lanka in international cricket and is a full member of the International Cricket Council (ICC) with Test and One Day International (ODI) status.
Also, official documents from UCI credit a medal at the 1984 UCI Track Cycling World Championships to Zhou Suying as a medal for North Korea, while in reality Syuing represented China.
Leagues with a promotion and relegation system include teams based on their performance in the previous season.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international association football, futsal and beach soccer tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
The following are lists of Grand Slam singles finals in tennis: List of Grand Slam men's singles finals List of Grand Slam women's singles finals
Games in pre-qualifiers, qualifiers and results of the losing team in final tournaments all carry a round weight of R=1.
Conclusion of the streak Now WCW Champion, Goldberg found himself the cornerstone of the company's efforts to stave off the WWF.
Association football, futsal and beach soccer Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
The Cape Verdean records in swimming are the fastest ever performances of swimmers from Cape Verde, which are recognised and ratified by the Federacao Cabo-verdiana de Natacao (FECAN).
Long course (50m pool) Men Women Mixed relay Short course (25m pool) Men Women Mixed relay Record holders' rankings By nation References External links World Aquatics swimming world records
The following are the national records in athletics in Bermuda maintained by its national athletics federation: Bermuda National Athletics Association (BNAA).
As of the end of the 2025 Stanley Cup playoffs, which ended the 2024–25 NHL season, the Montreal Canadiens lead all active NHL teams in playoff appearances, having appeared in 86 of their 109 seasons played in the NHL, and playoff games played, with 786.
Only on three occasions has a player defended their gold medal: Gigi Fernández and Mary Joe Fernández in women's doubles in 1992 and 1996, Serena Williams and Venus Williams in women's doubles in 2008 and 2012, and Andy Murray in the men's singles in 2012 and 2016.
Three teams (the Orioles, Pirates, and Yankees) achieved multiple LCS appearance streaks in and around the 1970s, each adding up to five appearances in six years.
Team statistics STK – winning or losing streak GD – Goal Difference (used as standings tie breaker) GP – Games played – Number of games the team has played W – Wins – Games the team has won in regulation.
This is a list of achievements in major international judo events according to gold, silver and bronze medal results obtained by athletes representing different nations.
Men Women Mixed relay Short course (25 m) Championship records at the European Short Course (SC) Championships since 1991.
All stadiums with a capacity of 5,000 or more which are the regular home venue of a club or national team, or are the regular hosts of a major competition (such as the State of Origin series, Magic Weekend, or the final of an annual national competition), are included.
The objective is not to create combined medal tables; the focus is on listing the best positions achieved by teams in major international tournaments, ranking the nations according to the most number of podiums accomplished by teams of these nations.
Of the 12 teams that have never won the Super Bowl, the seven who predate the institution of the game (the Cardinals, Lions, Oilers/Titans, Chargers, Browns, Bills, and Vikings) had all won an NFL or AFL championship prior to the AFL–NFL merger.
Louis Rams Oakland and Los Angeles Raiders Houston Oilers and Tennessee Titans a AAFC Western division Champs 1946–1948.
50m length) and are measured by electronic automatic officiating equipment: Surface finswimming (SF) – individual races for distances of 50m, 100m, 200m, 400m, 800m and 1500m, and relays for 4 × 100 m and 4 × 200 m.
Women Televised pairs high averages Televised combined high averages Highest televised averages by length of match in legs This table shows the highest average for all matches containing at least as many legs as the number in the leftmost column.
These suits seemed to improve the performance for top athletes, especially those with larger physiques.
FIDE uses the following ranges: FIDE used the following ranges before July 2014: The gradation of the K-factor reduces rating change at the top end of the rating range, reducing the possibility for rapid rise or fall of rating for those with a rating high enough to reach a low K-factor.
In terms of gridiron football, the Hamilton Tiger-Cats of the Canadian Football League can trace their roots back to the Hamilton Football Club (nicknamed the Tigers) which formed in 1869, then later merged with the Hamilton Wildcats in 1950 to form the current franchise.
Since then, best times set by swimmers wearing textile materials have once again overtaken more than half of the world records recognized by World Aquatics.
As of the end of the 2025 CFL season, the active head coach with the most wins is Mike O'Shea, who has 117 wins and 77 losses.
Execution All quadruple jumps have four revolutions, except for the quadruple Axel, which has four and a half revolutions.
This is a list of Canadian Football League regular season records by teams that played in the Canadian Football League as well as the Interprovincial Rugby Football Union and the Western Interprovincial Football Union that preceded it.
Some older computer systems still in use today include: Jeff Sagarin's systems, the New York Times system, and the Dunkel Index, which dates back to 1929.
As of July 2019, Sri Lanka have played 114 T20I matches and won 55 of them; 56 were lost and 2 tied and 1 no result match as well.
However, it did not qualify as the UCI Hour Record because Van Houweling had only been enrolled in the athlete biological passport program for three and a half months prior to setting this record.
It excludes makushita tsukedashi and sandanme tsukedashi entrants who made their debut in the third makushita division and the fourth sandanme division.
The Canadiens and New York Rangers share the distinction of having the most playoff ties, with 8 each.
A new record was set on December 11, 2010, when the University of Michigan's men's ice hockey team faced cross-state rival Michigan State in an event billed as "The Big Chill at the Big House".
'JudoAlba' (Scots Gaelic) JudoScotland, 'Judo Cymru' (Welsh) Welsh Judo, 'Norlin Airlann Judo' (Ulster Scots) or Tuaisceart Éireann Judo (Irish Gaelic) Northern Ireland Judo and in England, British Judo (BJA).
Dan For dan ranks, the first five are colored black, 6th, 7th and 8th dan have alternating red and white panels (紅白帯) Kōhaku-obi, commonly known as the "Coral belt," named after the coral snake, and for 9th, 10th dan and above, the belts are solid red.
The company secured support from several investors, including The Walt Disney Company, Techstars, Allen & Company, the NFL Players Association, Greycroft and NBA Commissioner David Stern.
These records are tracked/maintained by Namibia's national swimming federation: Namibia Swimming Federation (NASFED).
Women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Active streaks NBA Playoffs appearance streaks This is a list of teams that have active and current consecutive seasons with a playoff appearance.
are officially the oldest professional football club in the world, formed in 1862, playing their first recorded match on 8 December 1864 at Nottingham's Meadows Cricket Ground against a team known as Trent Valley.
If the team having first possession in overtime scored only a field goal, the other team would receive the ball, and could either tie the game with a field goal resulting in continuation of overtime (which then becomes sudden death), or score a touchdown, thereby winning the game.
Stud record Retired to stud, Victoria Park sired 25 stakes winners, including three Queen's Plate winners: Almoner (1970), Kennedy Road (1971), and Victoria Song (1972).
The ICF only acknowledge world best times set in finals of Olympic Games, World Championships, World Cups, Continental Championships and "other canoe sprint events with acceptable high technical level".
Much of the research focuses on exploiting a need for vicarious achievement, and a desire within the spectator to project a public image through a declaration of team allegiance.
Full Season Performance Index Rating (PIR) leaders (since the 1993–94 season) The Greek Basketball League (GBL) counts official statistical leaders by stats totals, and not by per game averages.
The term "sports analytics" was popularized in mainstream sports culture following the release of the 2011 film Moneyball.
The future of the NBA play-in tournament was then explored, with many reports concurring that it would indeed become a permanent fixture in the NBA.
The tournaments are important for the top players on the professional circuit as the series constituted the most prestigious tournaments in men's tennis after the four Grand Slam events.
For example, Baseball Reference contains more than 100,000 box scores while Pro Football Reference contains data on every scoring play in the National Football League (NFL) since 1941.
This is a listing of the horses that finished in either first, second, or third place and the number of starters in the Jim McKay Turf Sprint, an American stakes race for three-year-olds and older at 5 furlongs on the turf held at Pimlico Race Course in Baltimore, Maryland.
New record The World Longest Basketball Game, a charity event for Western New York mental health organization, was held from August 6 to 11, 2021.
Noted basketball analyst Dean Oliver also applied James' Pythagorean theory to professional basketball.
Last time that all Canadian teams qualified for the playoffs: 1985–86 Last time that no Canadian teams qualified for the playoffs: 2015–16 Last all-Canadian first-round series: 2024–25 (Toronto vs.
The following are the national records in track cycling in Pakistan, maintained by its national cycling federation, Pakistan Cycling Federation.
Attendance figures for leagues with a promotion and relegation system are more likely to vary each season due to the stadium capacity and support base for participating clubs.
The total of each team's points total is divided by the total number of matches to give a rating, and all teams are ranked on a table in order of rating.
The points earned by a losing team increases as the initial rating (quality) of the opposition increases, within the constraints of earning at least its own initial rating − 90, and no more than its own initial rating − 10.
In 2019, Stats merged with Perform Content following its sale to parent company Vista Equity Partners.
The term came from the world of running, referring to a person's best time in a race of a specific distance.
The oldest franchise to never win the championship is the Suns (54 seasons), while the Royals/Kings and the Hawks have even longer championship droughts (71 and 64 seasons, respectively).
Long Course (50 m) Men Women Mixed relay Short course (25 m) Men Women Mixed relay Notes References General Namibian Long Course Records 4 September 2024 updated Namibian Short Course Records 4 September 2024 updated Specific External links NASFED official web site NASFED records subpage
Despite reluctance in some circles to have such a tournament in Olympic years, three of the six most attended World Championships overall have taken place on years that coincided with the holding of a best-on-best tournament, either the Olympics (2010 and 2014) or the World Cup of Hockey (2004).
Theo Epstein of the Chicago Cubs is one of those minds who has never suited up in a professional baseball game; instead, Epstein relies on his Yale University education and the numbers behind the game to make many of his decisions.
7 At the Jamaican national trials in June 2011, Steve Mullings had tested positive for the drug Furosemide, a masking agent.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international basketball, 3x3 basketball and wheelchair basketball tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
Key: Season playoffs The following listing does not include play-in tournaments and is accurate as of the end of the 2021 Overwatch League playoffs.
Results achieved in youth, junior or U20 events were not considered for the making of this table, neither were para adaptations of hockey (power hockey).
Belt rankings for Juniors follow the same ranks and colours (up to and including brown), but have either 1, 2 or 3 white bars (depending upon age) at each end of the belt, as follows: If the judoka is aged up to 10 (Mon), there are to be 3 white bars.
Some competitions, such as the FA Cup, employ a system of replays where the drawn match is repeated at the ground of the away team in the first game.
Beach volleyball Men and women Men Women Sitting volleyball Men and women *Defunct National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Career Golden Masters The achievement of winning all of the nine active ATP Masters tournaments over the course of a player's career.
Leaders Gar Heard's 95.30 defensive rating is the NBA's all-time career record (minimum 15,000 minutes played).
They are the fastest time recorded by a swimmer capable of representing Chile for each recognized event.
Meanwhile, the Charlotte Sting have the lowest all-time playoff win–loss record, at 6–13 (.316), when considering defunct franchises.
This is a list of Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA) franchise post-season appearance droughts.
In the big four sports leagues in the United States and Canada, clubs are usually franchises owned by private investors.
Beach handball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Andrew Nicholson (2015) Former speedskater Andrew Nicholson (New Zealand) completed an unsupported circumnavigation 29,179 km in 123 days, 1 hour and 6 minutes.
Current ranking According to the latest ranking from December 18, 2025: The Dallas Cowboys remain No.
The 10-second barrier is the physical and psychological barrier of completing the 100 metres sprint in under ten seconds.
According to Charles Astor Bristed, in the early 1840s at Cambridge, there were games played between clubs from colleges and houses.
Basketball, 3x3 basketball and wheelchair basketball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Super Bowl win streaks Historical team streaks Most consecutive post-season wins in team history This is a sortable table of all 32 current NFL teams.
Results For the making of these lists, results from following major international tournaments are consulted: FINA: Fédération internationale de natation IOC: International Olympic Committee Medals for the demonstration events are NOT counted.
Rugby union, rugby sevens and rugby league Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
He improved his own standing as the oldest man to break the 10-second barrier, the first over the age of 40.
From 2000 the County Championship has been divided into two divisions shown here as D1 for Division 1 and D2 for Division 2.
The service launched a premium option dubbed StatMuse+ in May 2023, offering options that had previously been included for free, such as unlimited searches and full results in data tables.
Twelve teams have multiple winning streaks where they won an equal number of post season games before a loss.
To qualify, the jump must be made in a sanctioned competition, or official trial or qualification runs for these, with a system to control the actual length.
In 2024, Junior World Championships were resumed for acrobatic gymnastics, and Junior World Championships were organized for parkour for the first time.
Although initially kyū grade belt colours were uniformly white, today a variety of colours are used.
The app allows users to access StatMuse's sports statistics database by submitting queries in their natural language.
Historical rankings This table lists the teams that have historically held the highest rating since the T20I rankings was introduced.
As an educator by profession, Kanō believed that there should be no end to an individual's learning, and therefore no limit to the number of dan ranks.
Opta Sports, formerly Opta Sportsdata and more commonly known as Opta, is a British sports analytics company.
Scoring leaders Statistics accurate as of December 14, 2022 References External links PBA Official Website
On September 9, 2020, Major League Baseball (MLB) had its first scorigami in 21 years, a 29–9 victory by the Atlanta Braves over the Miami Marlins—the previous scorigami for an MLB game had been a 24–12 win by the Cincinnati Reds over the Colorado Rockies on May 19, 1999.
Evan Bates won another bronze medal with Emily Samuelson and thus holds the record for the most bronze medals won by a skater in ice dance (with three).
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international indoor volleyball, beach volleyball and sitting volleyball tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
Passar no corredor In some schools running the gauntlet ("passar no corredor" in Portuguese) is practiced immediately after a promotion.
World records in the sport of track cycling are ratified by the Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI).
A listing of the records can be found on the RFEN website here Archived 2009-05-03 at the Wayback Machine.
This is a list of Canadian Football League regular season records that stand as of the end of the 2025 CFL season.
Vin Cox (2010) On 1 August 2010, Vin Cox completed an unsupported circumnavigation of the globe, which was certified by Guinness as the new world record with a time of 163 days, 6 hours, 58 minutes.
Additionally, the 2020 ATP Finals held in London (the final year London hosted the finals) was played without spectators as planned.
A championship appearance is listed as appearing in an NFL Championship (1932—1969), AFL Championship (1960—1969), or Super Bowl Championship (1966—present).
This system is most commonly found in the sport of athletics: both the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) and European Athletics release placing tables for the major championships they organise.
Al-Tilal Sports Club is a Yemeni football team that plays in the Yemeni League, the country's top football league.
MLS Cup Conference Semifinals appearance The list only includes clubs that failed to make the conference semifinals for four or more consecutive seasons.
In 1967, 11 years later, Anquetil again broke the hour record, with 47.493 km (29.511 mi), but the record was disallowed because he refused to take the newly introduced post-race doping test.
Three out of five titles were won by clubs from present day Belarus, while two titles and the additional three times runners-up were achieved by clubs from present day Russia.
The first to officially reach 200 metres (660 ft) was Toni Nieminen in 1994, by landing a jump of 203 metres (666 ft); at the time, ski jumpers did not receive distance points for the part of the jumps exceeding 191 metres.
3-3-3 Legacy World Record Progression Female 3-6-3 Legacy World Record Progression Female Cycle Legacy World Record Progression Female Doubles Legacy World Record Progression 3-6-3 Relay Legacy World Record Progression == References ==
See also List of major achievements in sports by nation Notes References General Official results: Statistics of the International Luge Federation FIL Specific External links International Luge Federation (FIL) – official website
Theory Sports ratings systems use a variety of methods for rating teams, but the most prevalent method is called a power rating.
On 16 April 2019, Victor Campenaerts was the first to exceed 55 km/h by completing a distance of 55.089 km (34.231 mi) at the Velodromo Bicentenario in Aguascalientes.
The following articles list major achievements in team sports and individual sports by nation: Team sport *Sports (and forms of a sport) shown in bold are currently on the program of the Olympic Games.
These attempts are generally buzzer beaters when there is not enough time left on the clock to pass or dribble the ball further upcourt for a closer and easier shot attempt.
Indoor handball, beach handball and field handball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Partnerships and corporate social responsibility Livesport is a general partner of EDUin, a non-profitable organisation focused on education.
Find the points earned from a match Each time two teams play another match, the rankings table is updated as follows, based on the ratings of the teams immediately before they played.
4 The final of the 2020 Canadian Championship did not take place until after the conclusion of the 2021 tournament.
The Games records in athletics are set by athletes who are representing one of the Centro Caribe Sports member federations.
Records made outside of the above-mentioned competitions can be recognised as subject to the attempt being an individual attempt and that at least three days public notice of the attempt is given.
Fourteen days later, the horse made his first start on grass at Laurel Park Racecourse and, with jockey Don MacBeth aboard, won the prestigious Washington, D.C.
To the extent that they exist, losing streaks may arise from the loser effect: an increased probability of losing at time T, based on losing at time T−1, T−2, etc.
1 senior major: Jim Albus, Steven Alker, Michael Allen, Doug Barron, Don Bies, Olin Browne, Brad Bryant, K.
But his 9.95, with which he first broke the barrier, is valid and could be found on the website of World Athletics.
The Ottawa Senators hosted the Montreal Canadiens during the NHL 100 Classic, played at TD Place Stadium in Lansdowne Park, Ottawa, on December 16, 2017.
Variations in rank structure Although dan ranks tend to be consistent between national organizations there is more variation in the kyū grades, with some countries having more kyū grades.
Many of the players on the list have won events on other tours and unofficial events or won tournaments that have been Asian Tour events but were not part of the Asian Tour schedule at the time.
Notes A red background indicates that the result was achieved in doubles or mixed team events where each athlete represented a different country.
Qualifiers in final Age statistics All countrymen in final Titles won by decade as of 2026 Monte Carlo.
The conventions used on this table are M for men's singles event, MSp for men's sprint event, W for women's singles event, WSp for women's sprint event, D for doubles event, DSp for doubles' sprint event, T for mixed team event.
The outcome of a match does not solely depend on the strength of the opponents, but also on how much effort one or the other is willing to invest.
Breaks are limited to 5 minutes per 1 hour of playing time There are two teams and these teams are limited to 12-a-side (11 on the field plus one "sub") No player is permitted to leave the ground unless they are incapacitated A break is not permitted between innings.
This list also does not necessarily reflect actual money collected by the athletes since some contracts are eventually terminated (usually due to an athlete either retiring or invoking an opt-out clause).
Taylor chose to bypass the Belmont Stakes to return for Canada's most important race, the Queen's Plate.
Indoor sports Gallery The association football clubs with the highest average home attendance for domestic league games in the 2022–23 season are included.
This also skews the list towards sports with salary caps where salaries are therefore public knowledge and easy to cite.
From 1988 to 1992 six Championship matches each season were four-day matches and from 1993 all Championship matches have been of four days.
Outdoor Key to tables: Awaiting ratification Record not kept by SAZ Not ratified or later rescinded by SAZ Men Women Mixed Indoor Men Women Notes References General Slovak Records 21 February 2025 updated Specific External links SAZ web site
The NFL has recognized the annual ranking for the first time after the rendition based on the 2014 NFL season.
"When crossing oceans or any other impassable barriers, the participant may use scheduled public transport, such as buses, aircraft, ferries etc.
The objective is not to create combined medal tables; the focus is on listing the best positions achieved by cyclists in major international competitions, ranking the nations according to the most podiums accomplished by cyclists of these nations.
Ultimately, a crowd announced by the University of Michigan as 113,411, at that time the largest in the stadium's history (including football), saw the homestanding Wolverines win 5–0.
Since the first round of the NHL playoffs consists of eight series (sixteen teams), there will be twenty-four teams in this list – the sixteen teams that do not qualify for the post-season, plus the eight teams that lose their first-round series.
Long course (50 m) Men Women Short course (25 m) Men Women References External links Bangladesh Swimming Federation Archived 2013-08-02 at the Wayback Machine
In the 1969–70 season, they tied for fourth and last playoff spot with the New York Rangers, but were eliminated on total goals scored tiebreak (they scored 244 goals to New York's 246).
Audio-visual, OTT, and broadcast services In 2016, Sportradar agreed to a deal to acquire the shares and core business of media agency Sportsman Media Group.
As of 2022, the IBJJF allows coaches to ignore this minimum time-requirement if the practitioner has won an adult world championship at brown belt.
A typical system awards a decreasing number of points for the top eight finishers, with eight points for first place, down to one point for eighth place.
However, if a game starts late, and the trailing team is at bat at the 15-minute point, and ties or takes the lead during that point, the game can be declared a tie.
Racing career 1984: three-year-old season Racing at age three, Vanlandingham broke the Oaklawn Park track record in winning the March 1984 Rebel Handicap.
By contrast, the other three major North American sports have each had at least 18 franchises become champions over the same period of time.
They also won the 1996 Cricket World Cup, co-champions in 2002 ICC Champions Trophy and also became five times Asian champions in 1986, 1997, 2004, 2008 and 2014.
Czech Republic Oldest and second most successful Czech football club is Slavia Prague founded in 1892.
Instead, there are world best times, which are set over the international rowing distance of 2,000 m.
British cyclist Joss Lowden set a new world record on 30 September 2021 with a distance of 48.405 km (30.077 mi), beating the previous record by just under 400 metres, and also surpassing Jeannie Longo's Best Human Effort distance.
They first competed in international cricket at 31 March 1986, when they played against Pakistan in a one-day international match at Moratuwa, Sri Lanka; they lost the match by 7 wickets.
Men Key to tables: Awaiting ratification Record not kept by Bund Deutscher Radfahrer Not ratified or later rescinded by the Bund Deutscher Radfahrer Women References General German Track Cycling Records 5 February 2026 updated Specific External links BDR web site BDR records subpage
At the Apeldoorn event on October 17, 2009, she rode 46.048 km (28.613 miles), a mark which would have also broken the long-standing men's record of Francis Faure from 1933.
Rules The record is the amount of cumulative playing time, after breaks are discounted, of a continuous game of cricket.
The company is involved in sports data collection and predictive analysis for use across various sports sectors including professional team performance, digital, media, broadcast and betting.
The only other NFL team in Texas by contrast is in the opposite conference, so, meaning under normal circumstances they will only play each other every four years.
They therefore do not appear on this list, although they sometimes offer interested persons the opportunity to become 'members' for a fee, which gives them advantages in the purchase of tickets and merchandise.
The leading team is by definition zero games behind itself, and this is indicated in the standings with a dash, not a zero.
World Series in which neither team had previously won a championship In these instances, the World Series matchup ensured that one team would win the first championship in its history.
The 2024-25 NBA regular season featured 20 scorigamis, including a 145–111 win by the Oklahoma City Thunder over the Utah Jazz on April 11, 2025.
The Houston Outlaws hold the distinction of having lost the most matches (5) among the teams with the lowest number of wins (1).
This is a listing of the horses that finished in either first, second, or third place and the number of starters in the Blue Grass Stakes, an American Grade 1 race for three-year-olds at 1-1/8 miles held at Keeneland Racecourse in Lexington, Kentucky.
The ARGH Power Ratings evaluate teams taking into account a team's wins and losses, its points scored both for and against, its schedule, and the location of the team's games.
World Aquatics recognizes world records in the following events for both men and women, except for the mixed relays, where teams consist of two men and two women, in any order.
Five head coaches share the record for Grey Cup championships at five: Wally Buono, Don Matthews, Frank Clair, Hugh Campbell, and Lew Hayman.
Before Lowe, other try scorers had had better scoring ratios, among them record holders Burton scoring six in six, Wade seven in eight, Tot Robinson eight in eight, and Hudson, nine in eight.
Artificial and natural track events All competitive disciplines *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Men *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
The Fraud Detection System works by comparing odds movement patterns from online bookmakers with the expected odds' movement patterns for a given match.
The list contains both stadiums used solely for football, and those used for other sports as well as football.
In addition to the rankings published by the major sanctioning bodies, The Ring publish their own independent rankings, not excluding any organizations' champions.
The Philadelphia Flyers played the New York Rangers outdoors in the Winter Classic at Citizens Bank Park in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
If all numbers are the same, the skaters receive the same placement and are sorted in alphabetical order.
As a result, ratings of leading teams since 2018 have been considerably higher, and cannot be directly compared to those before that date.
The objective is not to create a combined medal table; the focus is on listing the best positions achieved by athletes in major global events, ranking the countries according to the most podiums accomplished by athletes of these nations.
The following is a listing of all 20 current Overwatch League (OWL) teams ranked by win–loss record percentage (winning percentage), accurate as of the end of the 2021 season.
He had objected to what he saw as the indignity of having to urinate in a tent in front of a crowded velodrome and said he would take the test later at his hotel.
The list includes only the modern World Series between the American League (AL) and the National League (NL), not the various 19th-century championship series.
In March 2022, Tempus Ex partnered with the Pac-12 Conference, agreeing to provide on-campus data capture and analysis services to Pac-12 athletic programs.
Full Season Assists leaders (since the 1988–89 season) The Greek Basketball League (GBL) counts official statistical leaders by stats totals, and not by per game averages.
The following are the national records in athletics in Grenada maintained by its national athletics federation: Grenada Athletic Association (GAA).
Preseason seedings disappear over the course of the season, and are completely absent from consideration by the time the season ends.
Most medals by skater If the total number of medals is identical, the gold, silver and bronze medals are used as tie-breakers (in that order).
They have played against Zimbabwe more frequently in ODI matches with a winning percentage of 62.66 in 47 out of 75 matches.
While different tournaments have different formats, the semi-finals are usually round 3 or 4, while the final is usually round 4 or 5.
The WBA often has more than one champion, none of which are ranked by the other 3 sanctioning bodies.
Performance is better at these high altitudes because the lower oxygen levels are compensated by the reduced air resistance.
Clubs Performance review (from 1993–present) By semi-final appearances (European Cup and EHF Champions League) Note: In the 1994, 1995 and 1996 seasons there were no semi-finals as the finalists qualified via a group stage.
Overview Most popular sports are both spectator and participant, for example association football, basketball, cricket, tennis, rugby, golf, athletics and volleyball.
Playoffs The Stanley Cup playoffs predate the National Hockey League's founding, and thus for the purpose of this listing, playoffs win–loss records prior to the 1918 Stanley Cup playoffs, which ended the 1917–18 NHL season, are not accounted for.
Formed from the merger of Biocore and Tempus Ex Machina, it provides data stream consolidation, data visualization, and integrated player tracking technology for organizations including the National Football League, Chelsea F.C., and the NCAA's Pac-12 Conference.
They also have recorded most victories against Zimbabwe defeating them in 9 matches with winning percentage of 69.23.
PSA ranking policy Players competing in PSA tournaments earn ranking points according to how far they get in the draw.
6 includes 11 seasons for Atlanta Thrashers (1999–2000 through 2010–11) + 14 seasons for Winnipeg Jets (2011–12 through 2024–25).
This is very rare in Test cricket and has happened only twice in its long history, but they are slightly more commonplace in first-class and limited-overs matches.
A losing team therefore always earns fewer points than its initial rating, decreasing its overall average rating.
As Goldberg moved on to a feud with The Giant, WCW management resorted to embellishing the win streak with fictional victories.
The world's longest cricket marathon, or the longest marathon playing cricket, is a world record of the longest time continuously playing the game of cricket between two teams.
Formal testing is now becoming commonplace in many Gracie Academies and organizations such as Alliance.
Concerns have been raised about the long-term impact of quads on the bodies of young skaters, especially girls.
Most top division championships Most wins Most consecutive wins Most consecutive wins from entry into sumo Best top division win ratios Most bouts Losses by default are excluded.
The skaters only utilize the inner lane and the lap distance is accordingly less than the 400 meters of a regular lap skated with one inner curve and one outer curve.
They have also won the 2001-02 Asian Test Championship, defeating Pakistan in the final by an innings and 175 runs.
This article gives the summarized standings of each season of SailGP, an international sailing competition that features high-performance F50 foiling catamarans.
Teams earn a certain amount of rating points for each game, and each game's rating points are then weighted based on the time, competition/region, competition stage and the round of tournament that the game was played within.
PPG – Power play goals – Number of goals the player has scored while his team was on the power play.
Five skaters share the record for the most bronze medals won (with two each): Mone Chiba, Rika Hongo, and Yoshie Onda, who all competed for Japan; and Mirai Nagasu and Caroline Zhang, who both competed for the United States.
Records begin where each object being juggled has been thrown and successfully caught at least once (e.g.
However, in October 2024 Stats Perform abruptly moved to withdraw from its agreement for betting rights to Italy’s Serie A, shocking staff on both sides of the deal.
Season records Consecutive records Tournament records Most titles per tournament Tournaments won with no sets dropped Calendar Masters combinations Back-to-back tournament titles.
For instance, a player's AAV would be five million dollars if he signed a four-year, $20 million contract.
Selection Committee Chaired by ICC Cricket Hall of Famer Clive Lloyd, the ICC Selection Committee was responsible for two main tasks: selecting the ICC World XI Teams and providing a long list of nominations for individual player award categories to the 25 members of the voting academy.
Many of the world records in swimming were established by swimmers wearing bodysuits or suits made of polyurethane or other non-textile materials allowed in the race pool from February 2008 until December 2009.
Another, Ben Johnson, had eclipsed both the 9.90 mark in 1987 and the 9.80 mark in 1988, respectively with 9.83 seconds and 9.79 seconds; however, both of these records were rescinded after he tested positive for, and later admitted to, using doping, namely steroids.
This is a list of Canadian Football League Grey Cup records that are effective as of the end of the 2025 CFL season.
Tennis was first contested as a Summer Olympic sport in the 1896 Olympic Games until 1924 (excluding 1916 due to World War I), before going on hiatus due to disputes between the International Lawn Tennis Federation and the International Olympic Committee over how to define amateur players.
Medals earned by athletes from defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are NOT merged with the results achieved by their immediate successor states.
Coppi's record set in 1942, during the Second World War, despite Milan being bombed nightly by Allied forces, was eventually broken in 1956 by Jacques Anquetil on his third attempt.
In case of a tie, countries are then compared according to most gold medal results, silver medal results and bronze medal results, respectively.
Wisden and Playfair recognise all of these as first-class and they are included in Grace's career figures, which have been his accepted figures since 1916 and are used in the Wikipedia article about Grace.
In 2011, the company entered the US market when it opened an office in New York and partnered with Major League Soccer.
Current competitions Association football Australian rules football Rugby Rugby league Other Defunct competitions See also List of association football competitions == References ==
The expansion saw the formation of the following clubs: Brisbane Bears in 1986 (merged with Fitzroy in 1996).
The listing ranks the OWL teams based on their winning percentage during midseason tournament matches.
Indoor volleyball and beach volleyball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
According to the National Baseball Hall of Fame, this is the only baseball game where the 100,000 figure has been definitively exceeded.
According to JISCON definition, a drop is "a failure to catch an object that, as a result, hits the ground or any foreign object.
Before the 2004 season, in the American college football Bowl Championship Series (BCS) the SOS was calculated as shown at right, where OR is the opponents' record, while OOR is the opponents' opponents record.
In Stoops' defense, the coaches agreed to a running clock during most of the second half and the entire 4th quarter.
vs Toronto, Aug 12, 1993)** 586 – Sam Etcheverry (for Montreal vs Hamilton, Oct 16, 1954)** 582 – Doug Flutie (for B.C.
The first World Cup with a team sprint event was on November 14, 2015, a race that was won by the team from the Netherlands.
Sports Reference purchased the baseball trivia game Immaculate Grid on July 11, 2023, and integrated it with its sites.
This list also includes coaches who coached in the CFL's predecessor leagues, the Interprovincial Rugby Football Union (CFL East Division) and the Western Interprovincial Football Union (CFL West Division).
There is a lack of research into the impact of quads on the joints, but the repetitive nature of jump training and the fact that skaters always land on the same foot means that skaters are at risk of developing microfractures that can become more serious with time.
Bangladesh won the first bilateral ODI series in 2005, defeating the visiting Zimbabwe side by 3–2 in a 5 match ODI series.
Aside from the best results achieved at the world championships for each variation, also included are results from the World Games and the World Roller Games.
As of 29 July 2019, Sri Lanka have played 846 ODI matches, winning 385 matches and losing 419; they also tied 5 matches, whilst 37 had no result.
The Norwegian records in swimming are the fastest ever performances of swimmers from Norway, which are recognised and ratified by the Norges Svømmeforbund (NSF).
Racing career At age two, the colt won the Clarendon Stakes plus the two richest 2-year-old races in Canada, the Coronation Futurity Stakes and Cup and Saucer Stakes, and was voted Canadian Champion 2-Yr-Old Colt.
Dimitris Ziogas holds the record of most goals scored in the lower Greek football divisions, over 750 during his career.
These records are maintained by Chile's national swimming federation: Federación Chilena de Deportes Acuáticos (FECHIDA).
WHIP stands for Walks plus Hits allowed per Inning Pitched and tends to be viewed as a strong way to measure the success of a pitcher, as it illustrates how many baserunners the pitcher allows on both hits and walks.
On December 7, 2019, in the free skate at the Grand Prix Final in Torino, Italy, Alexandra Trusova landed the first ratified quadruple flip in competition.
Artificial track events All competitive disciplines *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
On August 2, 2025, the MLB Speedway Classic that took place at Bristol Motor Speedway set an attendance record of 91,032 with a capacity of 146,000.
Davor Jakovljević won the Gamma Ethniki top goalscorer award a record 3 times between 1995 and 1997, playing for Halkida and Ethnikos Asteras.
The 2018 and 2019 seasons contained four and three stage playoffs (midseason tournaments), respectively, throughout the regular season.
Aside from the WNBA Playoff appearance streaks, this list also includes the WNBA Finals appearance streak and the WNBA championships win streak.
Individual results in case of partner changes are marked with a note or listed separately below the table.
Snead, Ian Stanley, Noboru Sugai, Ken Tanigawa, Peter Thomson, Jim Thorpe, David Toms, Bruce Vaughan, Bobby Verwey, Bobby Wadkins, Tom Wargo, Denis Watson, D.
Men Women Mixed References General Czech records 24 January 2026 updated Specific External links Czech Speed Skating Federation web site
All eight participants were members of a student rowing club called VSR (Vlaamse Studentenvereniging der Roeiers [translates to Flanders Student Rowing Club]).
This list includes both players and teams in the Canadian Football League (CFL) that have played in playoff games.
Field goal percentage does not completely tell the skill of a player, but a low field goal percentage can indicate a poor offensive player or a player who takes many difficult shots.
A small-scale version of a placing table is found in cross country running, where the team standing of a single race is decided by the aggregate placings of each team's athletes.
Victoria Park still holds the Delaware Park track record he set on June 18, 1960, of 1:47+4⁄5 for one and an eighth miles (1.8 km) on dirt.
The BBC reported, "During the trip, Mark was also awarded the Guinness World Records title for the most miles cycled in a month, from Paris to Perth, Australia, verified at 7,031 miles (11,315km)".
In October 2020, Stats Perform experienced a three week outage affecting key customers, including Yahoo!
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international baseball and softball tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
Add the match points scored to the points already scored (in previous matches as reflected by the table), add one to the number of matches played, and determine the new rating.
The mark of 43.133 km was achieved on 1 October at the National Cycling Centre in Manchester, Great Britain.
Times were recorded manually to one tenth of a second; three official timers with stopwatches noted when the starting gun flashed and when the runner crossed the finish line, and their median recorded time was the official mark.
According to the 2018 Technical Regulations established by the FIG, as well as the statutes of the organization, these are all considered official FIG competitions.
c The Washington Wizards last appeared in the 1979 Conference Finals and NBA Finals as the Washington Bullets.
Despite the apparent nonexistence of streaks in quantitative terms, many scholars in the field have pointed to the importance of understanding qualitative, psychological aspects of streaks.
Note: Tiger Woods won five European Tour sanctioned events as a non-member in 2006: two majors, two World Golf Championships, and the Dubai Desert Classic.
However, Sosenka failed a doping control in 2001 and then again in 2008, the latter resulting in a career-ending suspension which puts in doubt the validity of his record.
These records are kept by Spain's national swimming federation: Royal Spanish Swimming Federation (RFEN).
The two feuded with each other, which culminated in a match at Halloween Havoc for Sid's United States Heavyweight Championship.
Records are maintained in each weight class for the snatch lift, clean and jerk lift, and the total for both lifts by the Weightlifting Federation of Kyrgyzstan.
The Arizona Cardinals, founded as the Morgan Athletic Club in Chicago in 1898, are the oldest team in the National Football League.
Full Season Total Rebounding leaders (since the 1986–87 season) The Greek Basketball League (GBL) counts official statistical leaders by stats totals, and not by per game averages.
In the National Football League (NFL), the strength of schedule (SOS) is the combined record of all teams in a schedule, and the strength of victory (SOV) is the combined record of all teams that were beaten in that schedule.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international curling and wheelchair curling tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
Because environmental conditions have a strong impact on boat speed, World Rowing recognizes world best times instead of world records.
The objective is not to create combined medal tables; the focus is on listing the best positions achieved by teams in major international tournaments, ranking the nations according to the most podiums accomplished by teams of these nations.
1 at $1.25 billion, are among the men's professional leagues that could not break into this year's ranking.No league, however, compares to the NFL, which has 30 of its 32 teams among the top 50—everyone except the $5.3 billion New Orleans Saints and the $5.25 billion Cincinnati Bengals.
Dawson shared with VentureBeat that StatMuse brings people in and records them saying different words and phrases.
The following are the national records in athletics in Burkina Faso maintained by Burkina Faso's national athletics federation: Fédération Burkinabé d'Athlétisme (FBA).
The recognition of the junior classification and subsequent record keeping began in 1962 for men and 1995 for women.
Following the regular season, teams that won their respective divisions, in addition to three wild card teams determined by a conference's next best three teams—regardless of division—qualify for the league's postseason, called the playoffs.
After two appearances as a demonstration sport in 1968 and 1984 (with a U-21 age limit), it was reinstated as a full medal sport in 1988.
The MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference (SSAC) is an annual event that provides a forum for industry professionals (executives and leading researchers) and students to discuss the increasing role of analytics in the sports industry.
The highest per game attendance average is held by the Colorado Rockies in 1994 with 57,570 for 57 home games at Mile High Stadium during the strike shortened season.
The following are the national records in track cycling in Germany maintained by the Germany's national cycling federation: Bund Deutscher Radfahrer (BDR).
Sometimes, especially nearing the end of the regular season, games behind will be given with respect to the sixth through tenth positions in the Eastern Conference and Western Conference, due to the significance of the seeds in relation with the NBA’s play-in tournament.
One of the first instructors to publicly publish formal testing criteria was Roy Harris, who has formalized his promotion tests from white belt to black belt.
The only quadragenarian to have run a sub-10 is Kim Collins who ran his personal best time of 9.93 in 2016 at 40 years old, earning him the nickname Ageless Wonder.
All major World Championships organized by Union Cycliste Internationale (International Cycling Union, UCI) are covered, as well as cycling events at the Olympic Games.
Some of the records below were established by swimmers wearing bodysuits or suits made of polyurethane or other non-textile materials allowed in the race pool from February 2008 until December 2009.
The listed crowd figures are often a reflection of a championship venue's capacity, as demand for these events is generally so high that any stadium or arena would be filled to capacity.
The following are the national records in athletics in the Cook Islands maintained by the Cook Island's national athletics federation: Athletics Cook Islands (ACI).
Athletics records comprise the best performances in the sports of track and field, road running and racewalking.
Only teams that recorded playing time in the BAA/NBA are included, as the NBA does not recap NBL statistics nor does it officially count ABA statistics.
By quarter-final and semi-final appearances (EHF Champions League) EHF Champions League Final Four The history of the EHF Champions League Final Four system, which was permanently introduced in the 2009–10 season.
These areas are supported by applying financial metrics such as revenue and operating income to each one.
157 – Harvey Wylie 151 – Gene Gaines 147 – Don Sutherin Most interception return yards, single game 151 – Marvin Coleman (November 4, 1995) 116 – Kenny Wheaton (November 5, 2004) 115 – Alfred Jordan (November 2, 1997) 106 – Greg Peterson (November 15, 1987) 103 – Glenn Rogers Jr.
Bouncing balls must be bounced off a solid, flat, horizontal surface with just one bounce per ball between each throw and catch.
Barcelona–Las Palmas, 2017–18 La Liga Surrounding violence in Catalonia due to the 2017 Catalan independence referendum, the match between Barcelona and Las Palmas in the 2017–18 La Liga was played behind closed doors.
Bowling analyses are generally given for each innings in cricket scoreboards printed in Wisden Cricketers' Almanack, newspapers and so on, but they are also sometimes quoted for other periods of time, such as a single spell of bowling.
On the eve of the 2009 FINA World Championships in Rome, the international governing body for five Olympic aquatic sports voted to ban the use of bodysuits and all suits made of non-textile materials starting 1 January 2010.
The USJA also recommends that a patch is worn, specifying the practitioner's level for brown kyū, and dan levels.
Furthermore, one specific race (Speedmasters) is organized every year for permitting skiers to approach these records, at the period where the track is the quicker (end of March).
With 444 games played, the New York Yankees have played more games than any other MLB club in the postseason.
After rampaging through most of WCW's undercard of wrestlers, Goldberg faced Raven on the April 20 edition of Monday Nitro and captured the WCW United States Heavyweight Championship.
If p A = 1 / 2 {\displaystyle p_{A}=1/2} , Log5 will give A a 1 − p B {\displaystyle 1-p_{B}} probability of victory.
This list displays a chronology of the annual top ten leaders in career base hits in Major League Baseball (MLB) from 1876 through 2022.
The rankings published by these organizations share the trait of not ranking the other organizations' champions, as each one of the sanctioning bodies expects their champion to frequently defend their title against their top-ranked contender.
Slovenia The first football club was founded in 1900 by the German minority in Ljubljana, the Laibacher Sportverein and got discontinued in 1909, followed by the Hungarian minority Lendevai FE in 1903, and the German minority in Celje (Athletik SK in 1906).
Masters start at age 30, and competitors are bracketed into five-year age groups to promote fair competition.
This list includes all of the leaders in Performance Index Rating (PIR) of each full season (the regular season + the playoffs combined) of the Greek Basketball League (GBL), starting with the 1993–94 season.
This list includes all of the top scorers of each full season (the regular season and the playoffs combined) of the professional status Greek Basketball League (GBL), starting with the league's debut 1992–93 season.
The following are the national records in track cycling in Portugal maintained by the Federação Portuguesa de Ciclismo.
Elo did not specify exactly how close two performances ought to be to result in a draw as opposed to a win or loss.
The data is based on various sources and may therefore vary in terms of the survey period or the standards applied, which may limit comparability.
The Colorado Avalanche played the Detroit Red Wings outdoors in the 2016 NHL Stadium Series at Coors Field in Denver, Colorado.
Bois charted the history of scorelines in the NFL and noted gaps in the chart for various scorelines that have never occurred, dubbing these potential "scorigamis".
Investments In January 2015, Livesport acquired a share in the Danish B2B sports data provider Enetpulse.
Biocore research has demonstrated how add-on devices such as the Guardian Cap can reduce impacts and concussions.
When a game goes to overtime, each team is given one possession from its opponent's twenty-five-yard line with no game clock, despite the one timeout per period and use of play clock.
Formula The formula is: Defensive Player Rating = (Players Steals*Blocks) + Opponents Differential= 1/5 of possessions - Times blown by + Deflections * OAPDW( Official Adjusted Players Defensive Withstand).
Rival IMG argues that Stats Perform uses spies at games of the English Premier League (EPL) and other European leagues to collect data for which IMG has exclusive rights.
Legend Men's Top 25 Women's Top 5 Collegiate Top 5 The record at the college ranking is only against other college teams.
The International Human Powered Vehicle Association (IHPVA) was started in 1975 by Jack Lambie and California college professor, Dr.
Biocore evaluates different types of artificial turf, and has demonstrated that artificial fields cause more lower extremity injuries than natural grass fields.
One of only two charter members of the NFL still in existence, the Chicago Bears, have played the most games (1,503) and recorded the most ties (42) in NFL regular season history.
A winning streak, also known as a win streak or hot streak, is an uninterrupted sequence of success in games or competitions, commonly measured by at least three wins that are uninterrupted by losses or ties.
Results The conventions used on this table follow the ITTF guidelines, namely: MS for men's singles, WS for women's singles, MD for men's doubles, WD for women's doubles, XD for mixed doubles, MT for men's team and WT for women's team.
The earlier matches in the series are not regarded as first-class by some statisticians and this article on Somerset CCC matches does not include the matches that are in dispute.
It was part of the National Wrestling Alliance from 1979 to 1986 and is the last remaining North American member of the original NWA territory system.
Conversion between youth belt systems The table below shows an approximate conversion between the Gracie system and the International Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu Federation system, including striped sub-ranking within each belt.
During the 1980s and 1990s, CFL attendance declined sharply, reaching its nadir by the mid-1990s due in large part to the league's unsuccessful attempt to expand to the United States.
Champions by year ^ Seasons' tournaments are listed in chronological order with a few exceptions: a) Cincinnati and Canada were switched in 1996.
Strapped with a minimalist budget, Beane relied on sabermetrics, a form of sports analytics, to evaluate players and make personnel decisions.
The NBA also posts to the statistics section of its website a simple composite efficiency statistic, denoted EFF and derived by the formula, ((Points + Rebounds + Assists + Steals + Blocks) − ((Field Goals Attempted − Field Goals Made) + (Free Throws Attempted − Free Throws Made) + Turnovers)).
The international judge ruled against the idea, and a scuffle ensued that involved Anquetil's manager, Raphaël Géminiani.
Sri Lanka first competed in international cricket in 1975, when they played against West Indies during 1975 Cricket World Cup; West Indies won the match by 9 wickets at Old Trafford, Manchester, England.
Tie games do not count toward MLB standings, and they have become scarce since the advent of a 2007 rule change assuring that a tie game can occur only if it is the last scheduled matchup between the two teams that season and has no bearing on the postseason.
Sky Group acquired the Sports Internet Group in 2000 and sold Opta to Sportingstatz Limited, a data service co-founded by Aidan Cooney.
List of the top 30 most attended tournaments † = team won the championship as host See also List of IIHF World Championship medalists Ice Hockey World Championships == References ==
This distance is further than the UCI Best Human Effort by Chris Boardman of 56.375 km (35.03 miles) Streamlined human powered vehicles Hour Record With fully faired human powered vehicles (typically streamlined recumbent bicycles) much higher velocities are possible.
Current records Men Women Historical records Men (1998–2018) Women (1998–2018) See also List of world records in Olympic weightlifting List of Asian records in Olympic weightlifting References External links Asian Weightlifting Federation
Entries in this list also require an individual citation of the contract, so a number of the highest salaried athletes (according to Forbes) are not included as their contract details have not been officially confirmed, including the likes of Tiger Woods, Roger Federer, and Lewis Hamilton.
Many of them played in the NHL eras between the ceasing of the National Hockey Association in 1918 and the beginning of the NHL's Original Six era.
In association football, UEFA coefficients are used to determine seedings in tournaments organized by UEFA.
In judo, improvement and understanding of the art is denoted by a system of rankings split into kyū and dan grades.
^4 The IWF website still lists Hripsime Khurshudyan's record of 283 kg in total, which was later disqualified for doping.
The Golden State Valkyries hold the lowest winning percentage among active franchises, with an 0–2 (.000) record.
See also NBA records Player Efficiency Rating Efficiency (basketball) Similarity score Advanced statistics in basketball Basketball portal References External links NBA & pro Basketball statistics Basketball-Reference.com ESPN.com Current NBA statistics.
PPA – Power play assists – Number of goals the player has assisted in while his team was on the power play.
As a sixteen-year-old Eagle Rock High School student from Los Angeles, he won the first Rubik's Cube world championship on June 5, 1982, in Budapest by solving a Rubik's Cube in 22.95 seconds.
The ranking system compares the weighted average rating points teams earn across all games played in the last eight years, excluding friendlies.
The Bangladesh national cricket team represents Bangladesh in international cricket and is a full member of the International Cricket Council with Test and One Day International (ODI) status.
Sri Lanka played their first Twenty20 International (T20I) match at the Rose Bowl, on 15 June 2006, against England, winning the match by 2 runs.
See also World Figure Skating Championships cumulative medal count European Figure Skating Championships cumulative medal count References List of medalists at the Four Continents Figure Skating Championships from LesSports.info External links Isuresults.com
Lady Enid is Lord Edgar's second wife, though he has yet to recover entirely from the passing of his first wife, Irma Vep.
In July 2025, it ranked number 47 on Rolling Stone's list of "The 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century." Robotic recreations In 2012, Mike McMaster, an American robotics hobbyist, began working on his own model of WALL-E.
The game follows the course of their adventure as they 'sail' between the moons of the Nebula searching for a missing roboticist called Janniqi Renba.
He prefers to wear a beard, as he is self-conscious about the dimple in his chin (which he calls a cleft), but Amelia, who hates the beard and adores the dimple, makes him shave it at the earliest possible opportunity.
Kovacs and Schneider rescue Tanya Wardani, the archaeologue who coordinated the gate's discovery, from a prison camp.
However, Lo Sai does not realize that this power only works within five feet of the jade; he goes to rob a bank by himself and is taken to an asylum as a result.
Despite Kanaya knocking him unconscious to protect him, Karkat participates in the final battle, assisting Jake in defeating the leprechauns.
1964) was a new origin story that depicted Dan Garrett coming into possession of a mystical Egyptian scarab that granted him superpowers and beginning his career as the Blue Beetle.
References External links Hold That Hypnotist at IMDb Hold That Hypnotist at the TCM Movie Database (archived version) Hold That Hypnotist at the AFI Catalog of Feature Films
Franco Nuovo of Radio-Canada described being overwhelmed by Hochelaga, comparing the cinematography to paintings and finding the abundant symbolism erased any dullness that the historic subject matter could have threatened.
Adaptations The story was adapted for television as part of the NBC Television anthology series Your Show Time, airing February 11, 1949.
In 2013 it was released on DVD again in the US as part of the "Doctor Who: The Doctors Revisited 1–4" box set, alongside The Aztecs, The Tomb of the Cybermen and Spearhead from Space.
However, during the ending they would be stated to share the same existence, and had to go on different paths.
The main idea was connecting these two series was to have protagonists from two different manga with different personalities and designs.
Attractions Tomb Raider: The Ride (2002–2007) Tomb Raider: Firefall (2005–2008) References External links Official website
The Big Bang Theory: "The Precious Fragmentation" has the main characters returning from a garage sale with a box of random television and movie collectibles.
In 2017, IndieWire ranked Picard as the number one best character on Star Trek: The Next Generation.
Influence This story, along with several of Irving's others, was influential in American folklore tales of Pirates and buried treasure.
Talisman's spirit traveled back in time to learn about her incarnation as Nahita of the Tribe of the Moon, and her first defeat of Llan.
The Living Monolith (Ahmet Abdol) is a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
Jones in his debut in the 1989 film Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, while Lloyd Owen portrays him in The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles.
Series overview Series One Series Two Series Three References External links Time Team Official Website Time Team Official YouTube Channel Time Team Podcast at AudioBoom
They provided sounds like grunts, gasps, and the word "No!" for when Lara is unable to perform an action.
Chang's China Bistro to try to trick the Chinese people into telling them when the "invasion" is set to occur.
Morgan about writing the trilogy series of Takeshi Kovacs: Altered Carbon, Broken Angels and Woken Furies: Richard K.
Before the passage of the Video Recordings Act 1984, it was one of 82 "video nasties" in the UK: films whose video tapes could be confiscated and destroyed by police on the grounds of obscenity.
Other media Elora Danan also appears as the central character in a series of novels called the Chronicles of the Shadow War trilogy, set about fifteen years after the events of the original film.
Pyne meets with Mrs Oliver to congratulate her for designing a successful adventure for two of his clients.
One-time suspects In 1986, Super Cluedo Challenge and Super Sleuth were released in the UK, introducing the second wave of new board-game characters: Captain Brown (Super Cluedo Challenge) - A lower-class, drunk seaman who arrived at the mansion under mysterious circumstances.
Therefore, the entry to the underground hallway filled with snakes, which protects the anklet, is opened.
Some of Gibson's recorded sounds were kept in the final game, although the main spoken dialogue was later recorded by Shelley Blond.
He was an extremely talented individual and I was elated to have the chance to write music for his game, so I put my all into it.
It was later released by Echo Bridge Home Entertainment on June 5, 2007 as a three-disk pack with Raging Sharks (2005), and Lifepod (1993).
However, when he refuses to drive Shelly to a book fair on Halloween night, she destroys the packaged Halloween special, prompting Randy to ask the police to put her in jail for the night.
The Minotaur then threatens Iolaus, and Hercules ends up killing him by kicking him onto a stalagmite as Zeus arrives.
Although it was part of the video-on-demand service, the series did not appear on the Kabillion website until the site's April 2012 relaunch.
Capcom director Yoshiki Okamoto commented that the game was part of a broader strategy of Capcom at the time to appeal to a wider audience by using established characters from other media, as their original characters could be too niche.
The story follows Tribonian as he proceeds to secure the emperor Justinian I's permission and support to do just that, and follows him on his successful if thankless mission (Justinian may be supportive, but he is far from grateful).
A large mummy cat in the room disturbs Margaret's cat, Silvio, and the doctor suspects Silvio is guilty of the scratch marks on Trelawny's arm.
Alfred Jones Alfred (アルフレッド・ジョーンズ, Arufureddo Jōnzu) likes to study old cultures, strange languages, and treasures.
At the D23 Expo in September, Kevin Pollak was revealed to be reprising his role from the film, with Christian Slater also being announced as part of the cast.
Construction sets According to BrickLink, The Lego Group released a total of 22 Lego sets and promotional polybags as part of Lego Indiana Jones theme.
The series has attached a number of stereotypes onto her role as an Archaeologist throughout the series.
They encounter another Styx patrol, and Uncle Tam kills a member of the Styx, whom he calls Crawfly, but is mortally wounded in the fight.
It was also shown by Sky1 and Five in the United Kingdom, Network 2 (as part of the children's strand The Den in Ireland), Channel 2 in Jordan, ZBC in Zimbabwe,KBC in Kenya, Fun Channel in The Middle East, Kids Channel in Israel, Canal Famille in Québec, Canada and by YTV in Canada.
In the drama CD series, he goes by the name of Syaoron (小龍, Shaoron), appearing as Syaoran's older twin.
The show currently airs on the UK channel Film24, Sky157 every Friday night as part of 'Action Stations' evening.
Two museum curators hire them to locate an Egyptologist who disappeared in Cairo, and to retrieve the pharaoh's mummy which the Egyptologist had located before his disappearance.
With the clone disappearing, the real Syaoran breaks the curse by forcing himself to travel across different worlds for the rest of his life.
References External links Montana Jones (anime) at Anime News Network's encyclopedia Official Homepage from NHK via the Wayback Machine (Japanese)
Following the trail of clues Claudius has left behind, their quest takes them from Italy to London, California, and finally Jerusalem.
1up.com called it a rather poor game inspired by The Legend of Zelda, and said Crystalis was a far better Zelda style game.
Lupin III tries to steal the book, as his grandfather had unsuccessfully attempted before him, only to be foiled first by a young woman disguised as a security guard, then by Fujiko; he is then arrested by Inspector Zenigata.
Set in 1969—twelve years after the fourth film and during the height of the Space Race—Jones has moved to New York City, teaching at Hunter College with plans to retire, after his marriage with Marion collapsed following Mutt's death in the Vietnam War.
See also List of underwater science fiction works References External links Warlords of Atlantis at IMDb Warlords of Atlantis at Rotten Tomatoes Warlords of Atlantis at Box Office Mojo
In 2012, The Mummy was released on Blu-ray as part of the Universal Classic Monsters: The Essential Collection box set, which includes a total of nine films from the Universal Classic Monsters series.
Indiana Jones-themed attractions and appearances at Disney theme parks include: The Indiana Jones Epic Stunt Spectacular!
It has been published in more than 20 languages and was a London Sunday Times top-ten bestseller [1] and a New York Times top-ten bestseller.
Nanase Ohkawa referred to both clones appearing in the series with the term "utsushimi" (写身) to make them look like a departure from the original English word that fans often mention, aiming for different take of the cloning.
On the Eclipse, Lupin reveals himself and Geralt attacks him, but Lupin tampers with the Eclipse controls to release a micro black hole inside the Eclipse.
The supporting cast remained fairly stable throughout this original run and included Joan Mason, a reporter for the Daily Blade who starred in solo backup stories, and Mike Mannigan, Dan's police partner who believed him to be a criminal.
He feared her popularity may decline if players only focused on the character's gameplay and used the opportunity to introduce new elements for her character and encourage discussion.
While calling it a gamble, he called this passing of the torch a positive that enables the extreme negative of killing the first protagonist.
An earlier account of the controversy and personalities surrounding the discovery, drawing on unpublished letters and Ipswich Museum MS documentation, was published by Robert Markham in 2002.
Simon Noble James Flavin as Jake Morgan Murray Alper as Gail Mel Welles as Blackbeard Dick Elliott as Hotel Clerk Mary Treen as Chambermaid Cast notes Last appearance of Mrs.
Adrien Cho, producer for Mass Effect 2, described him as being both the best and worst traits of humanity rolled into one person.
However, she saw deceit at every turn, leading her to exterminate the realms, including the Malevoiy and dragons.
Back at the museum, Kay discovers Paul's corpse on the medical examination table beside Nahalla's, and is confronted by a knife-wielding, possessed Aranjo.
Gillen said he wanted to write the series to explore "what makes her tick and why she's doing what she's doing".
Ho frees the thief who unintentionally killed his uncle after blowing Wang's safe, Dakota, as he needs a guide to this new and unknown world.
With a miniature, you shoot it and its there." A scale 25-meter miniature of the whaling station was created in several months.
Kennedy, and the two begin to piece together that an Egyptian mummy is stalking the halls and sucking up souls in the night.
T U V W X Y Z See also List of Star Trek characters A–F • G–M • N–S List of recurring Star Trek: Deep Space Nine characters • Enterprise • The Next Generation • The Original Series • Voyager List of Star Trek episodes == References ==
The story revolves around Billy Stone (Billy Unger) and Allie (Sammi Hanratty) as amateur archaeologists who find a long lost medallion belonging to an ancient tribal king.
When fully rested, Daichi is very kind if a bit timid and jumpy, but he also takes responsibility instantly for the violence he had done in his sleep-deprived state.
Adam appeared in stories set in the Silver Age: Legends of the DC Universe 80-Page Giant #1 (1998); Silver Age: Showcase #1 (2000); DC Universe: Legacies #5 (2010); and DC Retroactive: Justice League - The '70s (2011).
This version is an archaeology professor with a longstanding fascination towards Amazon culture who suffers from empty nest syndrome due to Vanessa being away at college.
The project is based on Indiana Jones, Raiders of the Lost Ark – 40th Anniversary from the Raiders of the Lost Ark film.
Awards At the 1989 Pula Film Festival (the Yugoslavian version of the Academy Awards), the film won the Big Golden Arena awards for Best Film, Best Screenplay (Dušan Kovačević) and Best Actress in a Supporting Role (Radmila Živković).
Dread Central gave the film a positive and negative review stating, "This is one of those movies that requires two distinct ratings based on what frame of mind you’re in when you sit down to watch it.
References External links Channel 4 Time Team episode features for series 19 including dig-reports and summaries by the archaeologists.
Sakura losing her memories of Syaoran and struggling to once again develop feelings for him is one of the main themes of Tsubasa: Reservoir Chronicle, showing the value of relationships throughout the series.
Meanwhile the others have jumped over the edge of the Shattered Sea and confront the Crone in the Immemorial City, freeing Elora and Kit from their trance.
The Evil Dead grossed $2.4 million in the United States and $27 million overseas, for a worldwide gross of $29.4 million.
Family As with countless other female babies blessed by the Amazons before her, Julia thrived in her newfound spiritual blessing, excelling at every task she undertook.
As she watches, a horrifying mummy comes out from the cocoon, which quickly evolves into the true form of Talos with only the heart missing.
He goes to visit his ex-girlfriend Beniamina's mother, Flora, at her family home, where he also meets her live-in maid and student, Italia.
The Game Boy Advance version was also released on a Twin Pack cartridge bundled with SpongeBob SquarePants: SuperSponge in 2005.
and we're in the business of finding things - things that are priceless, dangerous, sometimes even unexplainable.
A critic for Aaro Ananda rated the film 3.5/5 stars and wrote "One glimpse of Prosenjit Chatterjee in Chandrasish Ray's Vijaynagar'er Hirey and you just know he is the G.O.A.T; in his mannerisms, speech, and acting, he is a character himself who has stepped right out of the pages of the book".
However, the people say that the king of the village is whoever wears the medallion; they hold a party for the new royalty.
Gameplay Professions are the main focus of Ambitions, and allows players to actively control a sim at their job.
Launched instead was Arion, Lord of Atlantis, which had run for several months as a backup feature in The Warlord.
Plot introduction The novel concerns mummies in the Connecticut town of Oxrun Station, a suburb of New York.
In a few episodes, Sydney is actually shown conducting conventional excavations, though she abandons the digs in question once it becomes apparent that the answers she needs are in a nearby sacred cave or ruined temple.
Tom Francis of PC Gamer criticized how the player was forced to work with the Illusive Man and Cerberus in Mass Effect 2, saying that it was an interesting idea if an option, but "it's just frustrating" if the player was forced to do it.
Ian Whyte as The Predator / "Scar", one of the three main Predators who come to Earth to create and hunt Aliens within the pyramid as a rite of passage.
Regular contributors on the Time Team include Tony Robinson (presenter), Mick Aston, Phil Harding, Carenza Lewis, Victor Ambrus (illustrator), Robin Bush (historian) and John Gater (geophysicist).
It was a major commercial success, emerging as one of the highest-grossing Telugu films of 2022, and was widely praised for its engaging screenplay, visual effects, and strong performances.
As the possessed Emily attacked Elizabeth, Shaman identified it as Ranaq the Devourer, one of the Great Beasts of the North.
Silver Age With the fading popularity of superheroes during the late 1940s, the Hawkman feature ended in the last issue of Flash Comics in 1949.
But for reasons sadly lost to history (meaning, for the life of me, I can no longer remember why), we never went ahead with the series.
Griffiths' second series, set in 1950s Brighton, focuses on the duo of Detective Inspector Edgar Stephens and magician Max Mephisto.
At Legrand's direction, Jupiter drops the bug through one eye socket, and Legrand lays out a line extending between the tree and the point at which the bug landed.
In May 1861 the Kentucky Legislature passed a Declaration of Neutrality which was violated many times soon after.
After the battle, Robin gave Luffy the antidote against the poison in Crocodile's hook, and asked him to be left in the collapsing Tomb of the Kings, as her wish was to finally die.
In the UK they released a CD album (on Minority One) entitled On The Side Of Angels, compiling previous vinyl singles and their various remixes.
The characters Mutt Williams, Irina Spalko and two Ugha Warriors were all included in minifig form, as well as Indy and an unnamed Russian soldier.
He compared the humans to the patrons of Disney's theme parks and resorts, adding, "I'm also not sure I've ever seen a major corporation spend so much money to issue an insult to its customers." Maura Judkis of U.S.
If poured into a fire, it would reduce to dust that, when carried by rain into rivers or oceans, could create immortal fish and sea creatures, or—when absorbed by soil—invulnerable plants.
Several crew members were injured during the shoot, and because of the cabin's remoteness, securing medical assistance was difficult.
Munchies is a 1987 comedy horror film starring Harvey Korman, Charlie Stratton, and Nadine Van der Velde.
Trevize then confirms his decision that the creation of Galaxia is the correct choice, and gives his reason as the likelihood of advanced life beyond the galaxy eventually attacking humanity.
He reaches the island, immediately finding the dig site, and uncovers both a treasure chest and Bugs Bunny on it.
R Colonel John "Renny" Renwick Renny Renwick is one of the characters referred to as "The Fabulous Five", the primary assistants of Doc Savage, and first appears with the full name John Renwick.
In this final battle, Vriska unleashes the Ultimate Weapon on him, said to contain alternate versions of the human kids who can defeat him.
The Meeting Point (Sabirni centar) is a 1989 Yugoslavian fantasy/comedy-drama film directed by Goran Marković and starring Rade Marković, Bogdan Diklić, Dragan Nikolić, Mirjana Karanović and Anica Dobra.
There, she reunites with Calan Dineer, learning that Khory was once a powerful weapon against The Malevoiy.
Heinlein's Future History series, and Infocom's celebrated comic interactive fiction adventure Planetfall.
Consumable items such as health packs and ammunition can be found through the level, including secret caches of supplies.
George Takei was running for 10th District Councilman seat for the City of Los Angeles, which triggered the FCC rules about airtime for political candidates.
Gard's role on Anniversary was limited to "story consultant", while also adding his voice to the audio commentary included in the game.
The artwork and design of Gold Digger are strongly influenced by Japanese manga, and Perry himself describes the book as a mixture of Indiana Jones and Final Fantasy.
In his last year of the course, he was commissioned to illustrate a book that was reviewed in the Times Literary Supplement.
The story planned for a sixth issue was eventually printed, without coloring, in the fan publication Charlton Portfolio #1 in 1974.
On the way back to the ship, they notice a moss has begun to grow around the seals of their space suits, and just in time, surmise that the moss is feeding on minuscule leakages of carbon dioxide.
As of 11 September 2024, La chimera grossed $1 million in North America (USA, Canada and Puerto Rico), and $4,231,797 in other territories, for a worldwide total of $5.2 million.
Ian McShane was originally cast as Carter, but had to be replaced when he was involved in a car accident prior to filming and broke his leg.
Cast Morena Baccarin as Alice Carter Adam Baldwin as Jesse Carter Victor Webster as Mark Tevis George Kennedy as John Tevis Azie Tesfai as Jamie Richard Kind as Ira Finkelstein John Aniston as Nigel Barrington Dan Castellaneta as Cecil B.
Breaks between boxset releases were often filled by official audiobooks of the previously released Big Finish novels, narrated by Lisa Bowerman.
Synopsis The title character is an exceedingly prissy nun substitute teacher (played by Cheech Marin) teaching in a parochial school ("Our Lady of 115th Street") classroom of exceedingly irreverent, noisy teenage boys (all played by Cheech and Tommy Chong through overdubbing).
Plot At the beginning of the 20th century, British archaeologist Professor Aitken and his son, Charles, have hired Captain Daniels and his ship, the Texas Rose, to take them to sea.
Plot influences Thanks to the author's very diverse interests, and personal experiences ranging from the U.S.
When the Crimson Gem of Cyttorak reappears on Earth and sends out a call to individuals suitable to become a new Juggernaut, Abdol hears the call and makes his way to the Temple of Cyttorak.
Lindy Booth as Claudia: Sydney's office assistant who helps Sydney and Nigel from the campus whilst they are abroad.
Oldbuck's preference for publishing his scholarly papers and the proposed notes for Lovel's Caledoniad anonymously or pseudonymously recall the fact that The Antiquary, like all the earlier Waverley novels, first appeared without Scott's name.
He performed regularly in amateur dramas, musicals and grand opera productions throughout West Somerset, and in 1991, 1994 and 1997 he helped to judge the grand finals of the World Public Speaking and Debating Championships.
Japanese game developer Capcom published two different games in 1989 based on the film; the first Willow is a platform game for arcades and the second Willow game is a role-playing game for the Nintendo Entertainment System.
Later, Aranjo infiltrates the local museum after hours, where he kills Carol and Rick Haley, both colleagues of Kay's.
There she will evacuate the archaeological research team of scientists, along with the artifacts they have gathered over the past ~30 years of study.
Of Death and Life (Level XIV, 2202 BCE) – Starting prior to 2000 BCE, the concept of an ultimate supreme being takes root with the introduction of the Cult of El, as are some barbaric and mystic practices, like child sacrifice and temple prostitution.
Rookie patrolman Dan Garret originally fought crime as Blue Beetle without the benefit of superhuman abilities.
Capcom produced two video games based on the 1988 film, one being an arcade game and the other being an action role-playing game for the Nintendo Entertainment System.
Statilius Crito of Heraclea, Trajan's procurator and medic, compiling a Getica, wrote that the Decebalus treasure included 5,000,000 lbs (2,200 tonnes) of gold and 10,000,000 lbs (4,500 tonnes) of silver.
But later, as the United States Army entered the mountains, the Apache rose up against the Mexicans who had to hide their gold in a canyon near Montezuma's Head.
Cars of Dirk Pitt The Mediterranean Caper - 1936 Maybach Zeppelin Town car Iceberg - (no car, but Pitt acquires the Ford Trimotor aircraft) Raise the Titanic!
Synopsis In 1927, Sexton Blake investigates a mystery involving a stolen Egyptian mummy, an ancient curse and a cult that dabbles in human sacrifice.
Journalist Bonnie Qu in an article for eSports group Team Liquid's website discussed Venture in the scope of other non-binary characters that were recently introduced in competitive gaming.
Gameplay Doctor Hauzer is a survival horror-adventure game in which the objective is to explore a large mansion in search of clues leading to the missing, titular character.
The film's production team conducted research at the British Museum in its Sutton Hoo archive and gallery.
The final hydrogue assault on Earth is put in motion, and with the Hansa's loss of military might and allies, the outlook is grim.
Cancelled film adaptation In 2008, Blue Sky Studios acquired the film rights for an animated film titled Anubis.
Hence the true story of the excavation of Mound 2 is suppressed, and the preparations for the 1939 excavation are omitted.
The Legend of the Hidden City was a South African action adventure series, directed by David Lister, which was broadcast by SABC and SABC2 between 1996 and 1998 as two series with a total of 39 episodes.
These mummies are mummified versions of creatures from other races that are reanimated through necromancy.
Aryan, along with Dr Sandra Rebello and Dr Gabrielle, discovers that the Ram Setu is around 18,000 years old, which predates Rama himself.
Visual effects and design Lucasfilm's Industrial Light & Magic (ILM) created the visual effects and animation sequences.
Though Nygårdshaug has worked within a wide range of genres throughout his career including poetry and children's literature, and won a people's award for "Best Norwegian Book of All Time" with Mengele Zoo, he is arguably best known for his Fredric Drum series.
Characterization Ice King appears like an elderly man with blue skin, which is caused by the magical crown he wears.
Digging for treasure is prohibited on the portions of the mountain that are in the control of the Oregon Parks and Recreation Department and is also prohibited on the beach, also part of the Oregon State parks.
At first glance, the alien Ixtl also appears to be an inspiration for the film Alien, though those involved with the film denied any influence on its part.
Still unaware of her own Amazonian ties, Julia eventually touched Harmonia's talisman during her first meeting with Diana, which resulted with several flashes of memories from Julia's Send Forth period.
The Dig is a historical novel by John Preston, published in May 2007, set in the context of the 1939 Anglo-Saxon ship burial excavation at Sutton Hoo, Suffolk, England.
The party goes through the portal and finds an inactive Martian starship, along with the bodies of Tanya's original archaeologue team.
If the subject cannot, for whatever reason, get access to the device, intense depression can result, often to the point of madness or suicide.
Thorn, not revealing his identity, sets off to Angwyn with his ship-sailing companions Morag and Maulroon, alongside Geryn and Wyr captain Ryn.
Landowner Edith Pretty, who was in her mid 50s, was initially intended to be portrayed by 53-year-old Nicole Kidman; the role was ultimately filled by Carey Mulligan, who was then in her mid 30s.
For reasons I can't quite describe, being able to trace roads and geographic features on a map and read my way through those same locations, but full of people, weather and birdsong, just feels great...
Smith as Frank Terrill Douglas as Addict Bob Gonzalez as Addict Walter Kaufmann as Addict "The Fright Before Xmas" Paul Kaufmann as Steve Barbara Jackson as Mother Walter Kaufmann as Joe Lori Tate as Cheryl Josh Craig as Chucky Sarah Craig as Susie Michael R.
Sweets wanted to tell the others, but Zack told him not to do so to avoid being sent to a "regular jail" as he "would not do well in prison".
For the series' launch event, a set was built (imitating the computerised background) on which the animation was said.
Two people deserve most of the credit for its success: Star Boris Karloff and Director Karl Freund." Cliff Aliperti at Immortal Ephemera opines: "The perfect explanation of The Mummy's quality comes from film historian William K.
The first Spacer planet they visit is Aurora, which was abandoned by its inhabitants and has a collapsing ecology.
She was horrified to later learn that she was unable to remove the coronet without enduring unbearable, agonizing pain.
Knowing the quality of the final result, the boys turn away while the audience reacts hostilely to the film.
The spirits themselves appear just as silly and petty as the peasants from the village above them, and in their desire to see what happened to their descendants, they find themselves surprised by the modern world of the living.
He found a common trait in all the stories: there was always a lone survivor of a piratical crew who somehow preserved a chart showing where the treasure was buried, but unable to return himself, he transfers the map or information to a friend or shipmate, usually on his deathbed.
Plot Marijuana farmer Randy Marsh, owner of Tegridy Farms, announces a Halloween special promotion to his family.
It ran for three seasons in the United States between 1999 and 2002, fulfilling its initial three-season, 66-episode contract, which was not renewed.
As she can see the future through her dreams, Jade was the one who encouraged the other three kids to play the fictional video game Sburb, and therefore set the plot in motion.
For five months the creatures were redesigned, the Predators wrist blades being extended roughly four times longer than those in the Predator films, and a larger mechanical plasma caster was created for the Scar Predator.
Bug-a-Booo ("Turma do Penadinho") is a Brazilian comic strip, created in 1963 and part of the Monica's Gang series.
All but one of the robots have stopped functioning; the last remaining active WALL-E has developed a personality.
In 1991, Irma Vep was the most produced play in the United States, and in 2003, it became the longest-running play ever produced in Brazil.
The first, Karl, is an archaeologist who wishes to give it to an archaeological institute; the second, Franz, is a materialist who wants to appropriate it to be rich and powerful.
Creation In a 2013 interview with Comic Book Resources, Fradon spoke on the character's genesis stating, "Metamorpho was George Kashdan's idea.
In Pokémon Legends: Arceus, two characters, Volo and Cogita, appear to resemble Cynthia, with Volo having a similar design, music theme, and Pokémon team to Cynthia's.
This version is not a port, but rather was actually a parallel project that was developed simultaneously with the arcade release.
Sallah later takes Jones and his father, Henry, to the Nazi convoy near the location of the Holy Grail.
The Indiana Jones Adventure, which opened at Disneyland in Anaheim, California, in 1995 and at Tokyo DisneySea in Chiba, Japan, in 2001.
In an interview with the newspaper Aftenposten, Egeland explained that the protagonist Bjørn Beltø in the novel Sirkelens ende (published in English under the title Relic) and other works is named after two pseudonyms used by Flatabø: Bjørn Botnen and Sven Beltø.
In Crocodile on the Sandbank, during a visit to the Cairo museum, the Emersons encountered Amelia Peabody and her friend, Evelyn Forbes.
Tom Fox of Starburst magazine gives "The Uninvited" a rating of five out of five, calling it a "quality episode".
She most often teaches courses on what appear to be archaeology and cultural anthropology, though she is also shown teaching history and architecture as required by the plot.
Once when Kaolla was a very young girl he promised to marry her, but then he realises that she only sees him as a brother, whereas Amalla is in love with him.
Background Smith was inspired in 1971 to begin work on the novel by memories of a childhood visit with his family to the ruins of Great Zimbabwe in 1941 and his resulting obsession with civilizations rising and falling.
Plot An archaeological team, digging in a remote village and led by an old professor, unearths an old Roman artifact, a gravestone bearing some mysterious inscriptions.
When I went to a restaurant, a child came up to me and asked, "Where are your crutches?" [...] If I attend any event, children ask, "Didn't you bring your stick?" I get inspiration as an actor from these things, because they cannot be influenced by social media.
In the first story in this issue, Ted Kord fought a bogus Dan Garrett, but the second story was more significant.
Set in London, the film follows a woman who battles the curse of Talos, an ancient mummy, years after his tomb was infiltrated by her archeologist grandfather.
Deciding to use his powers for his own personal gain, Abdol creates a cult around himself as the messiah, the Cult of the Living Pharaoh, and becomes a supervillain, intending to rule all of Earth.
After laboring for several hours and finding nothing, Legrand questions Jupiter and discovers that he had mistakenly dropped the bug through the skull's right eye socket rather than the left, resulting in the bug landing a few inches from where it should.
History presenter Beginnings and Time Team (1994–2001) In 1994, Robinson began presenting Time Team, a TV programme devoted to archaeological investigations limited to three days.
The Greatest Adventure: Stories from the Bible is an animated direct-to-video film series produced by Hanna-Barbera Productions that tells of three young adventurers who travel back in time to watch biblical events take place.
Gameplay In Heaven's Vault, the player takes the role of an archaeologist called Aliya Elasra who has a robotic companion called Six.
Appearances In Tsubasa: Reservoir Chronicle Syaoran is introduced in Tsubasa: Reservoir Chronicle as a young archaeologist who often visits the Kingdom of Clow and is in love with his childhood friend Sakura, the kingdom's princess.
Sparrow-Star Song assisted with distribution, releasing all thirteen episodes on VHS, one episode per tape.
See also List of Time Team episodes Time Team Specials Time Team Others References Bibliography Feinman, G.
Domenica de Rosa (born 17 August 1963), known by her pen name Elly Griffiths, is a British crime novelist.
See also Michael de la Bédoyère Anthony Thorold List of Durham University people References Sources Guy de la Bédoyère's Youtube Channel Classical Civilization Time Team biography Debrett's People of Today Duckworth Academic and Bristol Classical Press author page Thames & Hudson author page
They escape, but can't find their way back until they get a lead from placing a series of telephone calls to friends, who then call their friends and so on.
Several artifacts, including a gold coin bearing the marks of Pontius Pilate and a jar dating to 32 AD, date the tomb to the year Jesus died.
It is a fictionalised account of Howard Carter and Lord Carnarvon's excavation of Tutankhamun's tomb, with the real events embellished with various myths and legends.
From 1 September 2010, Robinson hosted a series on the National Geographic Channel called Birth of Britain which was repeated on Channel 4 beginning in January 2011.
(A relative, Lajos Kossuth, achieved notability for his role in the Hungarian Revolution of 1848.) Joseph Kosuth attended the Toledo Museum School of Design from 1955 to 1962 and studied privately under the Belgian painter Line Bloom Draper.
Humanity builds worlds to be colonized, complete with their own fossil history created by engineer/artists.
This character was inspired by Griffiths' husband, who gave up a city job to train as an archaeologist, and her aunt, "who lives on the Norfolk coast and filled her niece's head with the myths and legends of that area".
Thomas said that there were plans for a Liberty Legion series, but by that point, the sales figures on the Invaders comic were dropping, and Marvel decided against launching a spin-off.
The fourth season episode "Family" reveals that Picard has a brother, Robert, who took charge of the family vineyards in La Barre after Picard joined Starfleet.
Even though she inherited a vast fortune, giving her the means to attend Cambridge with ease, Lara chose to study at University College London.
Sepinwall found the series entertaining at times, particularly appreciating the engaging action sequences and visually appealing production design.
Shailyn Pierre-Dixon plays Zoe Lawton, Deadshot's daughter, and Corina Calderon plays Grace Santana, Diablo's wife.
Metamorpho appears in the Batman: Arkham Knight prequel comic as the subject of Stagg Enterprises's "Project: Meta", which was originally developed to weaponize a sample of Clayface's body.
Bugs avoids walking the plank and tricks Sam into thinking he is a charming mermaid, which gets him into a swimming chase with a shark.
The team finds an old Indian man who tells them that Skeleton Man, known as Cottonmouth Joe, was a genocidal warrior who killed the old man's tribe and is now stalking the soldiers.
Ralph reveals that he was aware of Faust's identity for some time, and that the binding spell surrounding the tower is designed to imprison Faust, not to counter any negative effects of the spell.
Also with Channel 4, he presented Tony Robinson's Crime and Punishment, Catastrophe and Man on Earth focusing on humanity's struggle with climate change in the past 200,000 years.
GD-ROM 3.0 – Collects Gold Digger vol.1: #1–4, vol.2: #1–50, vol.3: #1–125, and Ninja High School #54–57.
Additionally, special retro edition boxes of all five cereals in their original packaging art were sold exclusively at Target stores.
GamesRadar praised his moral sense, putting Illusive Man in their 2018 list of the best villains in video game history (which supersedes their 2013 list) at number 23.
The cRPG was released on Steam in Early Access in 2021, followed by a full release a year later on May 26, 2022.
He is nostalgic for his war days and has convinced a publisher that his military exploits would make for a good book.
The Greatest Shop in the Galaxy remains the most light-hearted play of the season, while The Dance of the Dead reintroduces the Ice Warriors from Doctor Who.
Plot The protagonist, Nevada Smith (a play on Indiana Jones), is an archaeologist and adventurer who is exploring an Egyptian pyramid, hoping to find the Pharaoh's Tomb and get evidence of his findings.
Bernard, one of the Templar Knights, manages to kill the Minion's host, but in his eagerness to prove himself better than Lukas, he accidentally allows the Minion to take possession of him and thus insert the key into the gate.
The protagonist learns about the treasure from the pirates, who are promptly and conveniently killed in an accident.
The brands Frute Brute (originally Fruit Brute) and Yummy Mummy have had more limited production and availability.
While he sometimes appears aloof when absorbed in his work, Calculus corresponds with other scientists and also collaborates with many of them on his projects.
While various projects going through varying stages of development, a continuation was released as a television series titled, Ash vs.
The initial wave of sets was released in 2008, Temple Escape (set number: 7623) was one of the biggest, and features the famous boulder chase scene from the opening sequence of Raiders of the Lost Ark.
Only much later was Brown given full credit for his contribution and his name is now displayed permanently alongside Pretty's at the British Museum.
Other specials may focus on a dig with a particular holiday theme; a more complex excavation over a longer period than the standard three days; or a visit to a particularly famous historical site.
The film flashes back to the present where Billy (Billy Unger) sneaks into his father's archaeological site and tries to help work.
The Gravedigger / Heather Taffet Portrayed By Deirdre Lovejoy United States Attorney Heather Taffet (seasons 2, 4–6) was the serial killer and kidnapper known as The Gravedigger.
Under pressure from Eidos, key sections of the game needed to be cut, and it was released before the team felt it was ready.
Kirk flies the Enterprise toward the dead star in what appears to be a suicide run, but in actuality is a slingshot maneuver for escaping its massive gravity.
Courage) is a 2013 Indian Telugu-language action-adventure film directed by Chandra Sekhar Yeleti and produced by B.
The Shiera Sanders Hall incarnation of Hawkgirl appears as a playable character in Injustice: Gods Among Us, voiced by Jennifer Hale.
The Mystery of the Whispering Mummy is the third book in The Three Investigators series by Robert Arthur Jr.
Gard had been headhunted by other software companies including Interplay and Shiny Entertainment (which prematurely announced that it had hired Gard) but did not take up their offers of employment.
Five of these episodes ("The Miracles of Jesus", "David and Goliath", "Noah's Ark", "The Easter Story", and "Moses") were released on DVD in 2006.
In other media Steven Drake, a character based on Jack Drake, appears in The New Batman Adventures episode "Sins of the Father".
Foster was the only French officer alive who served in Morocco before the war and had helped develop diplomatic ties with the tribes by negotiating with El Krim, their de facto leader.
Following his death, Peabody's devotion to her father was rewarded with her being named sole beneficiary of his substantial fortune of over £500,000 (over £30 million in 2006 values).
Time Team Digs is an eight-part series including highlights from previous Time Team digs, with each episode focusing on a particular period in history, going from the Bronze Age to the modern day.
Montezuma's treasure is a legendary buried treasure said to be located in the Casa Grande ruins or elsewhere in the Southwestern United States and Mexico.
Gibson designed Bartoli's Hideout, Opera House, and the Floating Islands and Dragon's Lair levels, among others.
Stoker's style was arguably a product of his background in the theatre, working as business manager to theatre legend Henry Irving and running the Lyceum Theatre for twenty-seven years.
It currently airs in reruns on the National Geographic Channel with 10 minutes removed for commercials.
Riley approach Sam as he think Brad is a prime suspect, while she explains the core of Talos' myth to Riley: Talos directed that his followers remove his body parts, and they believed he would someday be resurrected to reclaim them, gaining physical perfection and immortality.
The boys open their eyes to find their bondages removed and Cartman remarks that the film "must've sucked balls." Back in South Park, the boys believe that they are going to be congratulated for defeating Spielberg and Lucas.
Home media Warner Archives released the film on made-to-order DVD in the United States as part of "The Bowery Boys, Volume Four" on August 26, 2014.
The Anubis Tapestry: Between Twilights is a 2006 fantasy novel written and illustrated by Bruce Zick.
As a joke David wanted to name their unborn child "Nessie" after the local Scottish creature the Loch Ness Monster.
Television The myth and superstitions about a curse on the treasure are sensationalized in a 2014 television program Raiders of the Lost Past which includes interviews of many family members of treasure hunters.
This makes her pause despite being consumed by the Malevoiy, who she notes were not invited to the ceremony.
The latter stretches back to World War I when Monk framed Brooks for stealing hams during the war in retaliation for Ham playing a practical joke on him.
As the lamps are lit, the coffer begins to glow, emitting a green vapour that passes into the sarcophagus.
In the novels he is trained not only in archaeology, but also in religious and theological mysteries.
Originally, Hawkworld retold the origins of the Silver Age Hawkman and Hawkwoman, but following its success, DC Comics launched a Hawkworld ongoing series set in the present, resulting in a complete reboot of Hawkman continuity.
Two of the races, the Riim (pp 82–83) and the Ixtl (pp 52–53) are depicted in Barlowe's Guide to Extraterrestrials.
In most of his appearances, he is confused with dust and is attacked by broomsticks and vacuum cleaners.
This was followed by series 22 in 2023, with a new special episode, "Digging Band of Brothers", which was presented by a returning Tony Robinson.
The movie also uses many elements from famous horror stories and directors (Lucio Fulci specifically).
During the filming for the television series Jaha Bolibo Shotto Bolibo for Hoichoi in late-2023, it was reported that director Chandrasish Ray had met Prosenjit at his residence in Kolkata and narrated a script that impressed the actor, in their second collaboration after Nirontor (2020).
When Bob Rozakis asked him about the character, Len Wein responded with: Even I had forgotten about Pandora Pann.
Daphne is perturbed by the discovery that her estranged husband Henry Barnes lives a downtrodden life as the camp's odd-job man, despite having won the pools.
It ranks third behind Aliens and Prometheus at the domestic box office, and at the time was the highest-grossing film of both the Predator and Alien franchises (and to-date is the fourth best total, behind Alien: Romulus, Predator: Badlands and Prometheus).
Claude breaks off with Maria, confessing to past life as gigolo using women, and promises to reform and keep in touch through yearly advertisements in newspaper.
Wishing to reunite with Thorn, who she feels is the closest she has to family, Elora persuades Rool to ride with her on Bastian to Sandeni, where he is currently hiding.
With superhuman intelligence and the ability to learn quickly, Ramses quickly learns the English language and, with the help of an eager Julie, is given a tour of modern London and new technology that had arisen during the past two thousand years.
The Curse of King Tut's Tomb is a 1980 horror film directed by Philip Leacock and starring Eva Marie Saint, Harry Andrews, Raymond Burr and Tom Baker, with Paul Scofield as the narrator.
In 2021, The Postscript Murders was shortlisted in the Gold Dagger category at the Crime Writers' Association Awards.
Upon hearing Superman and Batman's fight with Doomsday in Gotham City, Diana abandons a flight back to her job in France and joins the two heroes in their fight against the monster.
Cast Home video In October 2017, RetroVision Entertainment released the film on DVD, paired with Night of the Sharks.
In the game, the player assumes the role of an adventurer in the 1930s and can team up with three other players to fight against different mythological enemies like mummies, giant scorpions and minotaurs.
Plot The series followed the lives of archaeology students who discover an ancient city in the wilderness unknown to civilisation.
They take place about fifteen years after the original film and feature the teenage Elora Danan as a central character.
It has been some time since Hercules has been going on adventures, but he is content that he has now settled down with Deianeira to raise his children.
On occasion, however, mischievous Company employees attempt to place anomalous objects in the strata as practical jokes, like running shoes and other out-of-place artifacts, hoping to raise confusion among future archaeologists when the planets' beginnings have been long forgotten.
Gameplay The player assumes the role of Willow Ufgood, who wages a battle against evil, wielding swords, shields, magic spells, and items to defeat enemies.
He felt that the game designers failed to represent Native American heritage with "depth and consistency".
Benson tells the tale of a doctor whose visions of monkeys dovetails into legends of mummies in ancient Egypt.
The story was published in Tales of a Traveller, an 1824 collection of Irving's writings, where it immediately precedes that work's most famous story "The Devil and Tom Walker", which also involves Kidd's treasure.
Filming In 2023, actor Larry Dann dedicated a chapter of his autobiography Oh, What A Lovely Memoir to his memories of the making of this production.
In mid-January 2025, Aajkaal hinted at their collaboration, revealing to be jointly produced by Nideas Production and Shree Venkatesh Films.
In the wake of the series' success, there has been arranged theme tours with Nygårdshaug, "in the footsteps of Fredric Drum", to Saint-Émilion.
This process includes sequential detonation of multiple nuclear bombs to rapidly melt the polar icecaps and induce volcanic activity.
In an era when having a woman in a video game development team was uncommon, Gibson was a creative voice in a core team of about six people.
Brown is astonished to uncover iron rivets from a ship, suggesting that it is the burial site of someone of tremendous distinction, such as a king.
The Department dispatches the Strange Brigade, a team of people experienced in defending the British Empire from supernatural threats to uncover what Seteki is after.
B Brigadier General Theodore Marley "Ham" Brooks Ham Brooks is one of the characters referred to as "The Fabulous Five", the primary assistants of Doc Savage, and first appears with the full name Theodore Marley Brooks.
Warlords of Atlantis was a part of a slate of six films EMI were making that comprised Death on the Nile with Paramount, Warlords and Arabian Adventure with Columbia, Convoy with United Artists, The Deer Hunter with Universal, and The Driver with Twentieth Century Fox.
Arthur is caught in a compromising position with attractive blonde Norma Baxter whose husband Joe is lumbered with their giant Irish wolfhound.
More recently, he has written for the Daily Telegraph, primarily concerning himself with the COVID-19 pandemic.
Plot summary While working in Egypt for Sir Harold Gregory, archaeologist Thomas Ashley meets Lucien Mallory and his servant Cooper, who have visited Gregory’s camp after the discovery of a mummy.
The case is taken to a familiar location and Bob and Pete quickly arrive on the scene and the villain is caught.
At a different junction, they discover another opening to the cave and Furby, dead with a broken neck.
Venture also has several abilities that require activation, though have a "cooldown" period after use and are unable to be used again during that duration.
Additional controller inputs let the player run while moving, leap forward, investigate the scenery, push or pull heavy objects like furniture, pick up important items, and access an inventory of collected items.
Fictional character biography Jack Drake and his wife Janet are respected businesspeople and archeologists who often leave their son Tim behind while traveling the world.
In the DC Rebirth relaunch, the Drakes' history is retconned to be similar to the pre-New 52 version, with Jack Drake's death in Identity Crisis being returned to history.
Within this series' continuity and characterization, Shayera and the Thananigarians' wings were considered a part of their physiology and is a prominent love interest of John Stewart, both a departure from the comics.
Baptiste finds that the sinkhole is located over a stream and finds the weapons which he believed could have belonged to Patriote rebels during the Lower Canada Rebellion in 1837.
Clued in by this and earlier comments about the lady’s eyes, Pyne deduces that the woman posing as Lady Esther is actually her companion, Muriel King.
Indiana Jones appears in Fortnite: Battle Royale (2017, Epic Games) as part of the Chapter 3 – Season 3 Battle pass.
The two remaining troopers (Captain Leary (Michael Rooker) and Lieutenant Scott (Sarah Ann Schultz) again try to lure Cottonmouth Joe into a trap to no avail.
The film received generally negative reviews from critics and grossed $177.4 million worldwide against a production budget of $60–70 million.
The designers allow the player to decide on a whole series of value choices and choose a "ruthless", "moderate", or "idealistic" stance.
Despite opening new opportunities for Allen, she expressed disappointment with the film because her character was motivated more by her relationship with Jones and financial gain than with her father and his obsession with the Ark.
"Allegories of Pathos and Perspective in the Symbolical Paintings and Self-Portraits of Edwin Dickinson," in Dreishpoon, et al.
Plot After watching the Beijing 2008 Olympics opening ceremony on television, Eric Cartman has been plagued by nightmares about the Chinese, believing that they will invade America.
Shum leaves a baggage containing the mysterious artifact in Andy's hotel room before being captured by Karov, head of the KGB.
I've been called everything from a treasure hunter to a thrill seeker, but personally I like to think of myself as a professional explorer.
As he travels along different corners of the world, Cross is accompanied by two partners: Mackenzie (Karen Cliche) and Gabriel (Jesse Nilsson).
The Strange Brigade set out across Egypt to foil Seteki's plans and rid the world of her undead army.
In a reference to the radioactive Earth of Asimov's novel Pebble in the Sky, the restoration of Earth's soil was eventually abandoned in favour of resettling the population to "New Earth", which the First Galactic Empire had already been terraforming.
Appears in Sirkelens ende (Relic, 2001) Paktens voktere (Guardians of the Covenant, 2007) Lucifers evangelium (Gospel of Lucifer, 2009) Nostradamus' testamente (The Testament of Nostradamus, 2012) Den 13.
The first eighteen books in the series were written in chronological order, with the exception of Guardian of the Horizon, which was the 16th book published but 11th in the series chronology.
Tasked with retrieving the mummy, the Stooges embark on a perilous journey, driven by the promise of a substantial reward.
Depending on whether the player is playing as Willow or Madmartigan, either magic blasts or sword swipes are the attacks.
Shiera first appears as Hawkgirl in All Star Comics #5 (July 1941), in a costume created by Sheldon Moldoff, based on Neville's Hawkman costume.
Ramses the Damned: The Passion of Cleopatra is a historical horror novel by American writers Anne Rice and her son Christopher Rice, published by Anchor Books on November 21, 2017.
Magnum, P.I.: "Legend of the Lost Art" is a parody of Raiders as well as a reference to Tom Selleck being selected for the Indiana Jones role before it was prevented by his commitments to do Magnum, P.I.
Adaptations Film adaptation A film adaptation of Bubba Ho-Tep was released in 2002 and was directed by Don Coscarelli, who also wrote the film's screenplay.
Critics have claimed to identify references in the series to works by other authors such as Knut Hamsun and Umberto Eco.
When Foster is shot dead, El Krim ends the fighting, telling the surviving legionnaires to take Foster and their dead back home and "tell the world what happened".
Powers and abilities Talisman possesses vast supernatural powers as a result of her descent from forty generations of Sarcee shamans, and was once described as "a mortal channel through which the gods can fight", as well as "a director of forces, not a combatant".
See also List of Batman family enemies References External links IMDb: Batman, The Curse of Tut IMDb: King Tut, Character Filmography King Tut Animated Sketch and info available.
In 2016, Robinson hosted Hidden Britain By Drone, exploring parts of Britain only accessible by drone.
Literary licence As a form of historical novel, this work draws on recorded information about real archaeology, real people and real events.
Daniel is also killed in a Goa'uld invasion in the Stargate Command, replaced by an alternate Daniel in "Stargate SG-1: The Gift of the Gods" from a doppelganger reality.
That evening, Deianeria says that he should not stop being Hercules, not for her or the children, and that he needs to go.
Fictional character biography Batman Professor William Omaha McElroy is an Egyptologist at Yale University who suffers a blow to the head during a student riot that causes him to develop amnesia and believe he is a reincarnation of Tutankhamun.
Buffy reassures her that Ampata will only be staying for two weeks, but Willow fears Xander will continue to overlook her.
Indy at one point mutters "This is intolerable" while escaping from the Soviets and, near the end of the movie, addresses Mutt as "Junior".
Short films Tomb Raider: The Trilogy (1998) A short film called Tomb Raider: The Trilogy was produced in 1998 by Silver Films for the Tomb Raider III launch party.
Elora's true identity is concealed even from herself, and she is raised not knowing that she is the prophesied savior of the land.
Neon acquired North American distribution rights to the film at the Marché du Film at Cannes in May 2022; it was released in the United States by Neon on 29 March 2024.
References External links Channel 4 Time Team episode features for series 20 including dig-reports and summaries by the archaeologists.
Also, Venus is conspicuously lacking its giant (lunar-sized) moon "Adonis", which dominates the sunset sky on the Earth Kin Arad came from, which was formative in leading humanity to an early heliocentric world view.
Later, believing Morgan asleep, Harry slips away and enters the tomb, using a reflection of light on an artifact to highlight where the sunburst is hidden inside a hollow pillar.
"Have You Got Everything You Want?", "'The House at Shiraz", "Death on the Nile" and "The Oracle at Delphi" all appeared in the April 1933 issue of Cosmopolitan magazine (issue number 562) under the sub-heading of Have You Got Everything You Want?
Time Scanners laser scans historical buildings with the hope of investigating various features about them.
French animation magazine Animascope, printed their first issue, featuring the character Lupin from the film, in its front cover.
Episodes Reception Ratings According to unofficial figures, the first episode of the series was watched by 6.8 million viewers, achieving a 31% audience share.
"The treasures of Decebalus were also discovered, though hidden beneath the river Sargetia, which ran past his palace.
It is a survey of the history of the Jewish people and the land of Israel from pre-monotheistic days through the birth of the modern State of Israel and up until 1964.
The episode looking at malting in Marshfield, South Gloucestershire was shot as the pilot in February 1998, and the experts included Gloucester archivist David Smith and local buildings expert Linda Hall.
The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess featured an enemy known as a ReDead Knight, which combined features from Gibdo and ReDeads (another undead enemy from the series).
Late at night, Elvis hears scuttling noises and other creepy sounds in the otherwise quiet Mud Creek Shady Grove Convalescence Home.
James Price of Official PlayStation Magazine gave the game a perfect score, praising it as the best game in the series to date and noting its improved graphics and gameplay mechanics over Tomb Raider III.
Casting Bernard Archard, who had previously appeared in The Power of the Daleks (1966), was cast as Marcus Scarman, due to his work on the 1970 horror film The Horror of Frankenstein.
Driscoll believes that all of the picture's imagery are "memory stimulants" and takes a passage Dickinson had underlined from Proust as the picture's inspiration.
Most of the Mexicans were killed but at least one man survived and later went back to the mountains in the 1880s with a treasure map to find the gold.
Writing career Griffiths' first series features as a main character forensic archaeologist Ruth Galloway, who lives in a remote seaside cottage near King's Lynn in Norfolk and teaches at the University of North Norfolk.
Plot summary When five Egyptian statuettes are stolen from a museum, the Hardy Boys travel to Egypt.
The first four films were directed by Steven Spielberg, who worked closely with Lucas during their production.
In the first season, a mysterious woman, Dahj Asha, comes to his estate seeking sanctuary, and Picard learns that she may be a Soong-type android, created from Data's remains.
Ships using the Manila galleon trade route usually made landfall on the southern California coast, but it is possible some made landfall as far north as Oregon.
And then I went over it and added a number of things, particularly with the older characters from the first book.
I can't fix you." Randy awakens three days later, and when his wife, Sharon says he was the only one who enjoyed the Halloween special, he says that he was pretty much the target audience anyway.
Williams used "dark" orchestral pieces to represent the actions of the Nazis, using the "seventh degree on the scale of the bottom".
An extended cut of the film is included in the home entertainment releases, except for the DVD version.
The game follows the film's plot: The evil witch queen Bavmorda is after the holy baby of the lands, Elora Danan, intent on destroying her.
A young Doc and his father search for their patriarch, Stormalong Savage, a merchant mariner, who they believe to be lost on the mysterious Skull Island.
After discovering what appears to be a cowboy paused in place in a tunnel, he returns to town and dismisses his graduate students, Taylor and Jackie, stating that their research is done.
After he is rescued by a British ship, he finds that the shards of the diamond gave him diamond-hard skin, giving him superhuman strength and nigh-invulnerability.
Initially, an expansion disk was planned for II entitled The Further Adventures of Lara Croft, which would have been set in India.
She was introduced in the original Tekken (1994) as a Chinese-Native American woman possessing a pendant capable of controlling evil powers.
The film was released on March 10, 1957 by Allied Artists and is the forty-fourth film in the series.
Musicperk.com wrote Sahasam is not really a commercial album but it definitely suits the film's genre.
In June 2021, Satyadev revealed that he will be a part of the film, marking his debut in Hindi cinema.
Overview Video games Main series Mobile and spin-off games These games are not part of the main series as they are either handheld, mobile or spin-off games.
Mint stated that "[they] do not have any information linking the Saddle Ridge Hoard coins to any thefts at any United States Mint facility", and "[they've] done quite a bit of research, and we've got a crack team of lawyers, and trust me, if this was U.S.
Venture's debut was well received, particularly by players that appreciated additional representation in the game's roster.
Helen Geake also answers archaeological questions from the members of the Time Team crowdfunding platform, Patreon.
Border Patrol take the villains away, and Bronson and Josie turn the treasure over to a mission church where they are married.
In her fair form, the Crone invites Elora and Kit to enter an inner chamber, where she attempts to convince them to submit to the Wyrm.
and appealing to women." When asked about the decision to give the Amazons heeled sandals, Jenkins explained that they also have flats for fighting, adding "It's total wish-fulfillment ...
The game has never been re-released on any Nintendo Virtual Console, likely due to licensing issues.
Ambrus won a Gulbenkian scholarship to study printmaking and illustration there for three years (1957–60).
Before leaving, Tutankhamun thanks them and tells them that "all things are as they should have been".
Dan Greaney told The Hollywood Reporter in a 2016 interview that the thought of a Trump presidency at the time "just seemed like the logical last stop before hitting bottom.
Regular contributors on Time Team included: archaeologists Mick Aston, Phil Harding, Carenza Lewis, Neil Holbrook; Robin Bush (historian); Victor Ambrus (illustrator); Stewart Ainsworth (landscape investigator); John Gater, Chris Gaffney (geophysicists); Henry Chapman (surveyor).
In 2020, Croft appeared on four commemorative UK postage stamps issued by the Royal Mail to celebrate classic UK video games.
Later that evening after fending off another attack by the Medjai, he watches as Evelyn accidentally awakens Imhotep through reading from the Book of the Dead.
During an intensive casting process, Lucas and Spielberg auditioned many actors, and finally cast actor Tom Selleck as Indiana Jones.
The following is a list of episodes of Time Team, a British television/web programme about archaeology, that aired on Channel 4 from 16 January 1994 to, 7 September 2014.
Young thought the voice acting was acceptable but "stereotypical." He also noted the "grand music score" as the highlight of the game.
He makes a deal with the captain of the Bantu Wind, a tramp steamer, for bringing Jones, Marion, and the Ark back to the States, referring to the two of them as his family.
The Legend of Bloody Mary is a 2008 American horror-thriller film written by John Stecenko and Dominick R.
After travelling with her grandmother for some years, she returns to Japan to fulfill her promise to her brother to run an inn together.
En route, the boys are asked to safeguard a mysterious mummy and find themselves tangled in a web of international intrigue.
DeMille's 1923 film The Ten Commandments that was actually an authentic artifact from antiquity with cursed powers.
Later, the fire-based faeros and aquatic wentals also reappear as the war with their ancient hydrogue enemies escalates.
Greg knocks him out and they carry him away from the influence of the mind powers of the Atlanteans.
Fictional character biography Origin A male child was born to the superheroes Quasar and Kismet in about the year 2002 of the Earth-691 timeline.
History After playing live gigs around Liverpool and then nationally from 1988 onwards and releasing several independently produced singles to increasing popularity, Rosetta Stone recorded their first full-length album, An Eye for the Main Chance, releasing it in 1991.
("Neutron Star") The Fleet of Worlds prequels reveal two other ways that the hulls can be destroyed.
Girard had previously used an anthology approach in his films such as The Red Violin, and was interested in another project that would depict Montreal.
Burrows, was recently there, and had willingly travelled down into the Deeps – a place even deeper in the Earth than The Colony.
Tom returns to the museum with Kay and douses Nahalla's mummified corpse in alcohol, but before he is able to strike a match, Kay reveals herself to still be possessed by Melissa.
The armor is also equipped with electronic jamming technology, which prevents people from electronically recording him.
Four years later Mallory requests that Ashley visit him In Farriers Bar, a village in Devonshire, to help translate some hieroglyphics from papyrus scrolls discovered in Egypt.
Due to the game being in an unwinnable state, Roxy and her fellow players spend half a year largely inactive, although Roxy uses this time to overcome her alcoholism.
Ohara incident and life on the run When Robin was eight years old, she met a castaway giant on Ohara's coast, Jaguar D.
Relationship to women Calculus is the only main character in the Tintin series to display signs of attraction to women.
They meet with the Professor and his butler, Wilkins, who is convinced the whispering is an ancient curse.
The film is a topical satire of hypnotist Morey Bernstein's best-selling book The Search for Bridey Murphy and its film adaptation.
The show's main character is Judson Cross, a seafaring adventurer-for-hire, and was originally Hurd's idea, based partly on the real-life exploits of her close friend, explorer Barry Clifford, discoverer of the Whydah Gally (the world's only authenticated pirate shipwreck).
On 21 November 2008 Broadcast magazine revealed the show would not be returning for a second series.
They often interact with principal figures from each story, but without any significant effect upon the plot so as not to alter the course of history; in other episodes, they arrive decades after the events depicted in the Bible and are relayed the story by a firsthand witness.
It is a joint American-Israeli-German co-production, shot on-location in Jerusalem, Tel Aviv and Italy.
Sprague de Camp, The Enchanter Completed, and the 2011 Arc Manor anthology Lest Darkness Fall and Related Stories.
The following year, Walt Disney Studios acquired the distribution and marketing rights to future Indiana Jones films, with Paramount retaining the distribution rights to the first four films and receiving "financial participation" from any additional films.
Carry On Behind is a 1975 British comedy film, the 27th release in the series of 31 Carry On films (1958–1992).
In his career at NUMA, Dirk makes numerous shipwreck discoveries and thwarts countless plans by villains intent on global catastrophe or world domination.
The popularity of Metamorpho's appearances in The Brave and the Bold led to a 17-issue ongoing series between 1965 and 1968.
Jack and Janet are temporarily resurrected as Black Lanterns in Blackest Night and permanently resurrected following The New 52 continuity reboot.
They also receive a letter from a Mrs Banfry in Santa Monica, whose distinctive cat has gone missing.
Burroughes became a member of Suffolk Institute of Archaeology and History's Suffolk Archaeology Field Group.
[and] arrive with resources that the archaeologists already on the case usually can’t afford and specific questions that, if answered, will advance the understanding of the site." A second season was announced on October 18, 2011, scheduled to shoot during the summer of 2012 and to air in 2013.
Particularly, a longer coat and a heavy backpack were added as they felt these elements were unique to Venture's identity, but also helped make the character's silhouette more distinct.
In Tekken 5, customization was made available, allowing further personalization of Julia's distinctive style.
Both he and Evelyn begin to investigate the legend of the Scorpion King, bringing along their son on their expeditions, while Jonathan remains in Britain.
Later one student (Cheech) rats out another student, Billy (Chong), to Stadanko for selling him oregano packaged as marijuana.
Synopsis Martial arts expert Ho Chiang journeys to America's Wild West on a life-or-death mission: he must retrieve his late uncle Wang's missing fortune and return it to a powerful Warlord (the original owner of the fortune) within a year, or his family will be executed.
Appearances Video games About thirty years before the events of Professor Layton and the Azran Legacy, Theodore Bronev was born to Leon and Rachel Bronev and had an older brother named Hershel.
Characters El Chavo Animado features all the characters of the original series, with the exception of La Chilindrina due to ownership disputes.
Ben Marwick has written how the character of WALL-E resembles an archaeologist with his methodical collection and classification of quotidian human artefacts.
As the series continued, there was no way I could get around this, or fudge the date of Ramses' birth, or keep him and his parents from aging a year every twelve months." According to this timeline, Amelia would be seventy years old in the eighteenth book, Tomb of the Golden Bird, set in 1922–23.
In the 2023 edition, Solicitor Peacock is a successful and tenacious attorney who knows how to command a room, court or otherwise.
Ralph journeys with the helm through the afterlives of several cultures, where he is cautioned about the use of magic and sees Felix Faust.
The ignition of the planet Oncier will eventually make its satellite moons into habitable worlds perfect for human colonization, but it has also murdered millions of hydrogues, a previously unknown race of gas elementals living in the high-pressure core of the planet.
He is also shown as one of the candidates for the new Justice League International, but is ultimately not chosen.
Sexton Blake and the Demon God is a 1978 six-part British BBC miniseries starring Jeremy Clyde as the fictional detective Sexton Blake.
The regular team also included Stewart Ainsworth, landscape investigator; John Gater and Chris Gaffney, archaeological geophysicists; Henry Chapman, surveyor; and Victor Ambrus, illustrator.
She is a Daikini, one of the average-sized races of people in the film (as opposed to the dwarf-sized Nelwyns).
Cast Credited Moe Howard as Moe / Radio Announcer Larry Fine as Larry Curly Howard as Curly Uncredited Dick Curtis as Jackson Bud Jamison as Dr.
Post-Hawkworld version Katar Hol was rebooted in 1989 in the prestige format miniseries Hawkworld by Timothy Truman.
Principal photography began in Toronto on April 13, 2015, with additional filming in Chicago, and ended in August that year.
The series is currently airing on BitMe and Distrito Comedia as of 2020, and from 2016 to 2017, and again from 2022 to 2024, it aired on Galavisión alongside El Chapulín Colorado Animado.
Production and cast The series producer of Time Team Digs was Tim Taylor, the creator and producer of Time Team and its predecessor Time Signs.
It is eventually tricked into leaving the ship, after all the crew have left the ship temporarily, leaving no prey left for its offspring to feed on.
He also became known from his appearances on the Channel 4 television archaeology series Time Team, on which he visualised how sites under excavation may have once looked.
After training on the Graduate Teacher Programme, he specialised in teaching Modern History and Classical Civilisation.
Archaeologist and Bristol University academic Mark Horton acted as the series' archaeological consultant.
In the second part, the ship is almost destroyed by internal warfare caused by telepathic contact with a race of bird-like aliens, called Riim.
The PlayStation 2 version was met with a mostly negative reception due to a glitch that causes the game to freeze while loading.
Strange Brigade is a 2018 cooperative third-person shooter game developed and published by Rebellion Developments.
The character is depicted as an Egyptologist at Yale University who is convinced that he is a reincarnation of the Pharaoh Tutankhamun.
Notes References External links Double Dragon 3: The Rosetta Stone at SpectrumComputing.co.uk Double Dragon 3: The Rosetta Stone at the Killer List of Videogames
The character was created in 1941 by Ben Thompson, who also drew the first comic book adventures of Ka-Zar the Great and Citizen V for Timely, as well as the Masked Marvel for Centaur Publications and Dr.
He describes the final battle with the Zombites as being "staged in the explosive style of the 1960s James Bond films" but questions Lindsey's fit of homicidal rage against Scott, believing it to be "out of character".
Club wrote in 2011 that the episode "was not so good, although better than many of the real stinkers yet to come at that point.
The Indiana Jones Adventure attractions at Disneyland and Tokyo DisneySea ("Temple of the Forbidden Eye" and "Temple of the Crystal Skull," respectively) place Indy at the forefront of two similar archaeological discoveries.
He possesses a fragment of a carved stone block which gives the location of the sunburst when placed on a stone map of the ancient tomb complex, housed at a local museum.
During Hawkman's solo segment of the Justice Society of America story, Shiera dons a spare set of Nth metal wings developed by Hawkman, and masquerades as Hawkman to trick some criminals.
There, she finds a pool of its kind being held by another Nelywyn clan to build a world gate that can provide access to other realms.
As Poe wrote in a letter in 1848, it "made a great noise." He would later compare the public success of "The Gold-Bug" with "The Raven", though he admitted "the bird beat the bug".
After having seen the Minion in action, she proposes they hide the key in a nuclear waste depository built on the grounds of her childhood reservation home, whose lingering radioactivity would theoretically prevent the Minion's host bodies from claiming it.
George Lucas and 20th Century Fox Home Entertainment released the film on Blu-ray disc on March 12, 2013, with an all-new digital transfer overseen by Lucasfilm.
The family encounters a hitherto unknown civilization in a remote wadi in the desert (The Last Camel Died at Noon), becomes embroiled in turbulent politics, and discovers Nefret Forth, the daughter of a long-presumed dead explorer.
Betty then uses the crown to transform GOLB into a less destructive deity by merging with it, sacrificing herself in the process to become Golbetty.
All these books have been reprinted, with Raiders of the Lost Ark being retitled Indiana Jones and the Raiders of the Lost Ark.
In 2024, Time Team's archaeological expert, Dr Helen Geake and broadcaster, Martyn Williams began the podcast.
His first conceptual work Leaning Glass, consisted of an object, a photograph of it and dictionary definitions of the words denoting it.
Release The pre-order exclusive limited edition of the game includes the party pack bundle with togas, laurel wreaths, masquerade masks and the Partaeus Maximus statue.
Thomas Penfield wrote, "There is not the slimmest thread of reality in this story which is common throughout Mexico and the southwestern United States.
Cast Ralph Ince as John Cromwell Aleen Burr as Grace Hamilton Alicia Turner as Susan Harry McNaughton as 'Arry Tom Magrane as Colonel Hamilton John Butler as Chubby Madison Charles McNaughton as James Chipman References Bibliography Krista A.
'The Tudor Tavern, Fore Street, Taunton' in Proceedings of the Somerset Archaeological and Natural History Society, cxix (1976), pp.
Vincent Lopez for IGN was less enthusiastic than Zdyrko due to the lack of innovation in the gameplay and engine design, while noting that the PC version was technically stable.
See also Ancient Egypt in the Western imagination Curse of the pharaohs References External links The Curse of King Tut's Tomb at IMDb
Antarctic Press Library – Official free online celebration preview of the 199 first Gold Digger issues.
The Mummy Returns By 1933, Rick and Evelyn are married with an 8-year-old son named Alex and live in an elaborate Baroque estate outside London, having become wealthy due to the treasure that was collected from the end of the first film.
Campfire Tales is a 1991 American anthology horror film written and directed by William Cooke and Paul Talbot.
Vic Vampire (Zé Vampir, full name José Morcego (Bat) Vampiro) – Vic is a yellow-skinned vampire, and therefore, he is able to turn himself into a bat.
Paul Blinkhorn (pottery), Mark Corney (coins), Carl Thorpe (pottery), and Jackie McKinley (bones) have appeared from time to time.
In his ruling, Judge Shook agreed with lawyers for Crusader Entertainment that an original contract between the two parties called for an award of legal fees if either side breached.
Clive Cussler sued the production company for the film Sahara, Crusader, in 2004, claiming the company reneged on a contract that gave him approval rights over the film's screenplay, when, in fact, he only had those rights until a director was hired.
Although she did not lead Basil Brown's excavation, she was the first of the excavators to discover gold items in the burial chamber within the ship, and therefore was at the forefront of it.
He blackmailed the six guests of Hill House and his butler Wadsworth's wife until he is murdered in the hall with the candlestick.
When properly calibrated by outside forces, these energy weapons can also channel the light of a Power Ring or a facsimile of its corresponding emotion that can dispatch a small enclave of Black Lanterns.
Cast Reception Critical response Robert Pardi of TV Guide stated in his positive review that "Despite its bible-bending flights of fancy, this nail-biter builds interest in its supernatural fiend.
However, according to Scully, Dan Castellaneta (who voices Homer) "did [the joke] so funny when we were at the table-read so we decided to put it in and risk offending." Release and reception The episode originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on March 19, 2000.
Although the character initially garnered a lukewarm reception from critics, his later backstory and character development into a tragic figure were widely acclaimed.
Overview Relic Hunter follows the globe-trotting adventures of unorthodox American archaeologist Sydney Fox (Tia Carrere), and her reserved British assistant Nigel Bailey (Christien Anholt).
The British Critic offered the opinion that “If his blunders cause amusement, his learning will afford instruction”.
References External links March or Die at IMDb March or Die at the TCM Movie Database (archived version) March or Die at Rotten Tomatoes Review of film at New York Times
Release The film released worldwide on 12 July 2013, after being postponed several times, by Bluesky Cinemas to the entire Overseas and Reliance Entertainment in India, with a U/A Certificate from Central Board of Film Certification.
They sneak into the museum at night and are confronted by a man dressed in traditional Inca clothing wielding a sword.
The GameCube version has a 72% rating on GameRankings, while the Game Boy Advance version has 75% on GameRankings.
At the club, Tweek alerts everybody else to the situation at hand, but the crowd remains focused on McCullough.
Billy gives the medallion to Huko, who then activates the medallion to send Billy and Allie back to the present.
The British Lady's Magazine and John Wilson Croker in the Quarterly Review agreed in thinking him a repetition of a character from an earlier Scott novel, though they differed as to whether this was the Baron of Bradwardine from Waverley or Counsellor Pleydell from Guy Mannering.
The sorcerer is then taken to prison, and the JLA soon after find out about the Demons' escape and re-imprison them.
Audience reception The word of mouth publicity among the audience did not fare well and led to a lower footfall, causing lower box office collections.
After time spent on different music projects, new Rosetta Stone material appeared in 2019, 2020, 2024, and 2025.
Amelia is a proponent of equality between the sexes, and brings up her adopted daughter, Nefret Emerson, accordingly.
This action is said to "spread sudden consternation among the buccaneers in every part of the provinces”, who likewise "secreted their money and jewels in lonely out-of-the-way places".
The noise attracts a large group of Bedouin tribesmen, and disregarding the warnings from his men, Fontaine orders his men to open fire, igniting a battle.
The rest of the treasure was deposited in surrounding caves, and the Roman prisoners were slaughtered.
See also List of highest-grossing documentary films References External links Mysteries of Egypt at IMDb Mysteries of Egypt at Box Office Mojo
Poe's friend Thomas Holley Chivers said that "The Gold-Bug" ushered in "the Golden Age of Poe's Literary Life".
Each episode of History Hunters featured people trying to discover more about an area and its history.
During the scene where Sallah fends off the German kidnappers, he hits a camel which spits mucus over the Nazis, and another shot with Sallah fighting the Nazis.
He eventually develops a printing press, issues a newspaper, and builds a crude semaphore telegraph system utilizing small telescopes.
Beniamina has been missing for an undisclosed amount of time, but her mother is convinced she will one day return.
The dig team discovered a printing press that could unlock the Linear C language, when disaster struck.
Rediscovering the story in the late 1990s, Dominic Montserrat believed Alcott to be the first to use to utilize a fully fleshed-out "mummy's curse" narrative.
David Cordingly states that "The effect of Treasure Island on our perception of pirates cannot be overestimated" and that the idea of treasure maps leading to buried treasure "is an entirely fictional device".
The program would then create a smooth transition from one stage to another before outputting the result back onto film.
While Xander's kiss revitalises Buffy and fills her with new strength, Ampata's kiss drains others of their life force.
And the amnesiac black Klikiss robots, left behind after their parent race's mysterious destruction, have secrets of their own.
See also Revelation Space universe References External links Revelation Space at the ISFDB SFNet review SF Site review Infinity Plus review Russ Allbery review SF Signal review
A number of events including rapid fire games and quiz contests were arranged for the children, as well as other attendees.
Marvel Comics initially held the comic book licensing rights, leading to adaptations of the films Raiders of the Lost Ark, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, and Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade.
Calculus's deafness is a frequent source of humour, as he repeats back what he thinks he has heard, usually in the most unlikely words possible.
Two years later, Kosuth collaborated with Ilya Kabakov to produce The Corridor of Two Banalities, shown at the Centre for Contemporary Art in Warsaw.
It confirms that as the prospect of war loomed, white Rhodesians felt the same insecurity as they had in 1890s; and, as they had done in the 1890s, they turned to the ruined city for inspiration.
America's Best Comics Alan Moore revived the Scarab, along with many other Nedor Comics characters, for his Tom Strong series.
Three scenes of effects such as doors opening and the Doctor materializing from the sarcophagus were also removed from the final edit of Part Four because Russell felt the mixes were not good enough.
When they arrive at the undersea location where the treasure is, the separate groups fight, with the protagonist eventually being victorious.
O'Connell rages his way through a three-way battle that pits him between two ghastly foes and succeeds in destroying both of them, while also saving his son.
The wrap around story involves the young men going to sleep with the narrator revealing a hook on his right hand.
Following an accident in late 1997, Porl King lost part of his left little finger, which changed his guitar style considerably.
While The Angel of Darkness met with initial strong sales, it failed to meet expectations due to publisher pressure.
While officially part of the same series as before, directly continuing from The Eternity Club, and still containing the Doctor Who branding and licenses, promotion and cover art once again became simply Bernice Summerfield.
Tolley [as by Michael Tolley] (1990) in SF Commentary, #68 Review by Sue Thomason (1994) in Vector 179 Review by Colin Steele (2001) in SF Commentary, #77 References External links Annotations for Strata Quotations from Strata Strata title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
Mantis Majo Madam Mantis (蟷螂魔女マダムマンティス, Kamakirimajo Madamu Mantisu; 6 & 12): Assumed the identity of Satsuki, a widowed woman with a thing for younger men.
Shiera Sanders appears in the DC Super Hero Girls episode "#TheBirdAndTheBee", voiced by Stephanie Lemelin.
And a lot of those marching orders were to emphasize the mysterious nature of immortals and not have them flinch or react in the same way an ordinary human character would.
Publishers Weekly called 2002's Hidden Empire a "stellar launch of a new series" and a "fascinating future epic", and praised its "engaging characters." Harriet Klausner of TheBestReviews.com wrote, "The tale grabs the audience from the start as Kevin J.
See also Booby Trap - a Next Generation episode where the heroes' ship is trapped near an ancient dead ship (which is explored by an Enterprise captain) which provides clues about their situation.
Riders of the Cactus is a 1931 American Western film directed by David Kirkland and starring Hal Taliaferro, Buzz Barton and Fred Church.
Casting In casting, artistic director André Dudemaine claimed that the Quebec film industry was skeptical of the project finding Indigenous actors, saying there were not enough in Montreal.
Calculus' original French name was "Tournesol" which is not only the French term for "litmus paper" but also for sunflower.
They often do the difficult work for Lord Zero, and when things go wrong they usually take the blame.
Previously, he was seen as a delinquent, prone to violent outbursts; however, this was a result of chronic night terrors and lack of sleep.
Pilot Scott Tracy is rescued by two archaeologists, who later need International Rescue's help when they become entombed in the Pyramid of Khamandides – home of the hostile tribe that shot down Scott.
Heaven's Vault is an archaeological science-fiction adventure game released by Inkle for Microsoft Windows and PlayStation 4 on April 16, 2019, and for Nintendo Switch on January 28, 2021.
A film adaptation of the same name was released in 2002 and starred Bruce Campbell as the lead character of Elvis.
In this story it is revealed that centuries ago the planet's population suffered nuclear wars and left them not only with the loss of a large part of their ecosystem, but also with a genetic problem that made the majority of the population sterile.
The direction is all over the place with too many hand-held shots and the meager effects are cheap and terrible.
Much of Calculus's more dangerous work is criticized by Captain Haddock, although Calculus usually interprets this the other way round: his deafness often leads him to misinterpret Haddock's words, preventing him from hearing his real opinion.
IGN credited a rise in PlayStation sales in part to Croft's debut on the system, and PlayStation Magazine attributed the first title's success to the character.
Multiple reviewers said the game's puzzles were too difficult, and other aspects, such as its graphics, voice acting, and dialogue, received mixed receptions.
DeMille Raymond O'Connor as Dale Legacy Sands of Oblivion was featured in the 2016 documentary, The Lost City of Cecil B.
From a young age she had a passion for history and ancient cultures, as well as the magnificent structures that they built.
By sheer accident, we hadn't missed a trick in including all three of the elements which Martin Goodman considered deadly.
High Aldwin orders the baby must return to a Daikini (the Nelwyn's name for "tall people") family, so Willow and other volunteers set out with the baby to find one.
His special interests, apart from the Roman Empire and Roman Britain, include coinage (ancient and modern), and the writings of Samuel Pepys and John Evelyn.
After being cornered, Evelyn surrenders to Imhotep and O'Connell is forced to flee with Jonathan and a Medjai named Ardeth Bay.
Tunnels was critically well received, although some complaints about its lengthy, slow start were recorded.
First referenced in the 1979 Doctor Who story City of Death (written by Douglas Adams and Graham Williams), Braxiatel first appeared in person in the New Adventures novel Theatre of War.
He had previously starred in Lucas's American Graffiti, and Lucas felt that he and Howard shared a symbiotic relationship similar to the one he enjoyed with Steven Spielberg.
The development team began by reading books on ancient civilizations, then designed levels based on these, which Sandham shaped into the plotline.
Presented by the actor Tony Robinson, the show is a spin-off of the archaeology series Time Team, that first aired on Channel 4 in 1994.
However, when Frere demands that Trelawny be moved from his room, Margaret refuses and sends him away.
He argues that the dream has a specific art reference to John Singleton Copley's painting, Watson and the Shark, in the Boston Museum of Fine Arts.
The dating of the hoard is from a set of eighteen 1863 Double Eagles, made in the Philadelphia Mint.
Mysteries of Egypt is an IMAX film about Howard Carter's discovery of King Tutankhamen's tomb in 1922.
Production Writing The Universal Pictures film The Mummy (1932) and especially the Hammer horror films The Mummy (1959) and Blood from the Mummy's Tomb (1971) influenced the story.
Picard successfully negotiates with the Borg, forming an alliance aimed at researching the anomaly, and kindles a romance with Laris, one of his Romulan companions after the death of her husband Zhaban.
Inspired by an Indiana Jones style of adventure, Fox is often found battling rival hunters for artefacts.
The myth of buried pirate treasure was popularized by such 19th-century fiction as "Wolfert Webber" by Washington Irving, "The Gold-Bug" by Edgar Allan Poe, and Treasure Island by Robert Louis Stevenson.
Shortly thereafter, Elizabeth reached into Shaman's mystical medicine pouch at his bidding and withdrew a coronet (later identified as the "Coronet of Enchantment").
List of episodes, relics, and locations Production The show and character was designed around Carrere, her skills and interests.
Eventually, Ramses and Julie decide to visit Egypt one last time so that Ramses can say good-bye to his past.
Veronica Brownage, an agent of the Department of Antiquities who was keeping an eye on Harbin, managed to send a distress message to headquarters prior to the release.
Like the clone counterpart, Syaoran has been voiced by Miyu Irino in Japanese and Jason Liebrecht in English.
This event causes Father Gutierrez to turn from his faith, but he comes back to it in the end when it is revealed that the body is in fact not Jesus's body but one of his followers who died in a similar way during the First Jewish–Roman War.
2010s: Otherworld, Ninja Gaiden Z, and a new studio From 2010 to 2012, he worked on a webcomic called Otherworld.
They also learn from a prerecorded message that the ship became almost completely controlled by a malevolent entity seeking to escape the dead sun and travel to other worlds.
The model vehicle representing Wilson and Lindsey's desert truck would later appear in "The Mighty Atom", "Martian Invasion" and "Cry Wolf".
Smith described the film as "a throwback to gothic horror" and that it appeared to be influenced by Hammer vampire films of the 1970s, specifically Twins of Evil.
Faint markings on the skull consistent with thorns, the absence of broken leg bones, occupational markers suggesting the deceased was a carpenter, and a nick on the ribs from a pointed object lead authorities to suspect that these could be the bones of Jesus.
The player rolls two dice and adds their score in the ability; to succeed in the task, they must score higher than the difficulty.
event, Katar Hol was merged with Carter, Shiera, and a "hawk god" creature in a new Hawkman version—a living avatar of the hawk god who adventured for a brief time, continuing to prey on criminals and deal out his own brand of justice.
His first attempt to gain the key at the close of the year 999 is foiled; the sole surviving Templar of the company charged with hiding the key eventually takes off with a ship to the west, to what was at that time known as the "end of the world", to keep it from the Minion's grasp.
"Beyond the Farthest Star" is the pilot episode and series premiere of the animated American science fiction television series Star Trek: The Animated Series.
If I had known what a success the game would become then I may have been more nervous." She designed the cave setting of the opening levels to hide the engine's inability to draw a distant sky or horizon in order to work within 1996 hardware limits.
The later alternate history author Harry Turtledove has said it sparked his interest in the genre as well as his desire to study Byzantine history.
Written by Cherish Chen, with art from Gabriel Guzman, the series begins with Luke Skywalker recruiting Aphra.
International editions Among its foreign language editions, The Tiger Warrior is entitled Tigres de Guerre in France (Editions First), and Guardians of the Secret (Φύλακες του Μυστικού) in the Greek edition.
He hired Willard Huyck and Gloria Katz to write the script; he knew of their interest in Indian culture.
Premise Background The cartoon depicts the children to scale, compared to the live-action series where the children were played by adults.
In a way, she could be seen as a more weak-willed version of Angel in "Amends" – who is prepared to sacrifice her love, to lose herself and her humanity in the embrace.
When he awakes, he discovers an apocalyptic cataclysm has wiped out several areas of the land, including Tir Asleen, killing Madmartigan and Sorsha.
For passenger automobiles, section 280F(a)(1)(A) limits the depreciation deduction by listing the amounts a taxpayer can deduct in the years following its purchase.
Winston Peters has critiqued KiwiSaver as a 'billion dollar rort' by the finance industry and proposed alternatively that private KiwiSaver funds should be invested in a government run "KiwiFund" which would invest mainly in New Zealand assets and infrastructure.
He spent most of the year (perhaps wisely) in Wales, preaching the crusade, accompanied by the chronicler Giraldus Cambrensis.
Relevant Internal Revenue Code sections Section 6109(a) of the Internal Revenue Code provides (in part) that "When required by regulations prescribed by the Secretary [of the Treasury or his delegate] [ .
The review was a "root and branch" review, restricted only in that it could not consider increasing the rate or broadening the base of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), imposing tax on superannuation payments to retirees over 60 years of age, or already-announced personal income tax commitments.
Though it was used to refer to a tax on meat or slaughtering, the word korobka (Russian: коробка) actually means "box" in Russian.
The nomenclature of goods has been selected taking into account the capabilities of Russian companies to substitute imports of products from unfriendly countries.
Revenue stamps of the Gold Coast were issued by the British Colony of the Gold Coast (modern Ghana) between 1899 and the early 20th century.
This extension only gives more time for self-employed individuals and their spouses more time to file their returns; any balance owing is still due on April 30 and arrears interest will be charged even if the return is filed before the extended deadline.
Other taxes may be retained if they serve a specific policy purpose such as discouraging smoking or traffic congestion.
994; 113th Congress) – a bill that aims to make information on federal expenditures more easily accessible and transparent.
Overview The UK government introduced the Insurance Premium Tax to raise revenue from the insurance sector, which was viewed as being under-taxed, and not subject to Value Added Tax.
An example of this method would be: A 50% reduction for the first $10,000 income, a 40% reduction for the next $5,000 income, a 30% reduction for the next $5,000 in income.
The numeral design was reissued in 1961 denominated in South African rand, and these are the last Cape revenues.
However, it has signed multiple information-exchange agreements, including the Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters or the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement on Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information.
Adjusted cost base (ACB) is used in the Canadian tax system to refer to the cost of an investment adjusted for several tax-related items including acquisition costs.
Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) is a type of indirect tax levied on general insurance premiums in the United Kingdom.
Inheritance and gift tax A single law regulates both inheritance tax and gift tax, requiring the payment of rates from 7% to 50% both on transfers following death and on gifts among the living.
Origins of the modern agency start in 1918 with the establishment of Finance and Tax departments within the Lithuanian Ministry of Finance.
In 1189, he was involved in a war with Philip and his own son Richard the Lionheart, and was accused of spending the tithe on provisions for this war.
The eight-per-thousand tax has significantly helped the Piedmontese Waldensians, a Protestant community whose origins predate the Reformation, the Waldensians have only about 25,000 enlisted members but about 412,000 Italians support them and their charitable works.
Types Any government-provided number that can be used in the US as a unique identifier when interacting with the IRS is a TIN, though none of them are referred to exclusively as a Taxpayer Identification Number.
These exist in a number of different watermarks and perforations and continued to be issued until 1951 (with the exception of the Japanese occupation from 1941–45).
The table is not exhaustive in representing the true tax burden to either the corporation or the individual in the listed country.
Income tax Employment income earned is subject to a progressive income tax, which applies to all who are in the workforce.
In popular culture On 27 June 2007, the day of his resignation as Prime Minister, Tony Blair jokingly remarked during his final Prime Minister's Questions about receiving his P45: I received the following communication by urgent letter yesterday: "Details of employee leaving work: Surname Blair.
The Board also needs to build the committee (AU) which consists of three to five people, to prepare matters for discussion in the Board.
However, certain government benefits (such as the Canada Groceries and Essentials Benefit and Canada Child Tax Benefit) are only paid if a T1 return is filed for the year.
References External links Information on Individual Income Tax Income Tax Act Singapore Personal Income Tax Rates
Partial income splitting models allow only a part of the income to be transferred among spouses in order to balance such criteria.
The Special Department of Federal Revenue of Brazil (Portuguese: Secretaria Especial da Receita Federal do Brasil), most commonly referred to as Receita Federal (RFB), is the Brazilian federal revenue service agency and a secretariat of the Ministry of the Economy.
A registered seller has a duty to issue a Qualified Invoice to a buyer when making a taxable transaction in selling goods or rendering services.
Typical non-domiciled UK residents include senior company executives, bankers, lawyers, business owners and international recording artists; see list of people with non-domiciled status in the UK.
Meanwhile, the supervisors would make regular spot-checks on the excisemen in their districts and report any anomalies or errors in their accounts.
89) was an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that consolidated enactments relating to excise duties on mechanically propelled vehicles, and to the licensing and registration of such vehicles, in Great Britain.
United States of Colombia Later in 1861 the United States of New Granada became the United States of Colombia and stamps were issued marked Estados Unidos de Colombia from 1864.
This was printed in London, in a similar design to a series of Transvaal revenues which had been issued a year earlier.
The Australia's Future Tax System Review, colloquially known as the Henry Tax Review was commissioned by the Rudd government in 2008 and the final report was published in 2010.
References External links Voluntary Disclosure Agreements (96-576) Taxes - Voluntary Disclosure Voluntary Disclosure Program Guideline Voluntary Disclosure and Compliance Program
See also Postage stamps and postal history of Zambia Postage stamps and postal history of Zimbabwe Revenue stamps of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland References External links Rhodesian Study Circle Rhodesia Revenues as Exhibited by Sandy Jardine Tax Stamps Collection
All legal entities that were liable for the corporate tax were also liable for the flat-rate tax except some newly established corporations (whose capital was composed of at least 50% of cash contributions) and certain not-for-profit organizations.
Structured installment sales are distinct from monetized installment sale transactions, in which a seller both defers gain and immediately borrows against the installment obligation.
On the other hand, Smith reported that others objected to the tax on the grounds of its inequality, since it was thought to have a disproportionate impact on the poor.
A 2015 Eurostat report showed that from 2010 to 2015, almost 23% of Ireland's GDP was now represented by untaxed multinational net royalty payments, thus implying that Irish GDP was now circa 130% of Irish GNI (e.g.
This alternative usually requires the assistance of a third party service provider who will require a fee for their services and the compliance cost might outweigh the benefits (i.e.
Tobacco tax In Japan, the price of cigarettes includes four types of taxes: national tobacco tax, local tobacco tax, special tobacco tax, and consumption tax.
One of the values - the 6d red and black - is very rare despite it being one of the most commonly used rates as it was the stamp duty tax on cheques.
Former judges whose terms have ended may become "senior judges", able to return and assist the court by hearing cases while serving on recall.
This tax withheld is usually considered a final determination and payment of tax, requiring no further action or tax return by the foreign person.
Reyes Court (1965–1966) Members of the Umali Court (1966–1976) Members of the Filler Court (1980–1990) Members of the A.
Dual-purpose postage and revenue stamps were used for most fiscal transactions, so few revenue stamps were issued.
The Institute of Revenues Rating and Valuation (IRRV) is the professional body for those working in the field of revenues, benefits and valuation in the United Kingdom.
Tourist refund scheme Before the introduction of the GST, goods could be purchased from suppliers offering duty-free pricing upon presentation of a current passport and airline tickets.
Unemployment insurance premiums are paid by both employer and employee: 2.8% is withheld is of the employee gross salary and 1.4% is paid by employers of monthly gross salaries.
See also Child poverty in Canada External links Official NCB website Archived 2005-03-06 at the Wayback Machine
Further changes in 2019 increased the upper threshold of the 19% bracket further to $A45,000, and brought the remaining stage two changes forward to 2020.
It arose in response to efforts by Congress to permanently prohibit states from collecting sales tax on online commerce.
Officially known as The Constitution (One Hundred and First Amendment) Act, 2016, this amendment introduced a national Goods and Services Tax (GST) in India from 01-July-2017.
Structured sales are one of several methods used to manage capital gains exposure on the disposition of a capital asset, alongside conventional installment sales, 1031 exchange transactions and other deferral techniques.
Climax of 2015 Apple's Q1 2015 BEPS transaction implied that Irish GDP was now well over 155% of Irish GNI, exceeding even Luxembourg, and making it inappropriate for ongoing monitoring of the high level of Irish indebtedness.
This is consistent with 2018 research showing that the "Green Jersey" is the largest BEPS tool in the world.
ITINs ITINs are used by aliens who may or may not have the right to work in the US, such as aliens on temporary visas and non-resident aliens with US income.
It was introduced as the One Hundred and Twenty Second Amendment Bill of the Constitution of India, The Goods and Services Tax (GST) is a Value added Tax (VAT) proposed to be a comprehensive indirect tax levy on manufacture, sale and consumption of goods as well as services at the national level.
In the 2015/2016 tax year SARS eFiling processed 36.8 million electronic submissions and payments which equates to 98.7% of all submissions and payments to SARS in South Africa.
In 1948 she refused to withhold taxes from the wages of her employees, based on the claim that the government had no power to require such withholding.
On January 1, 1996, CCH Incorporated became a wholly owned subsidiary of Wolters Kluwer NV (Amsterdam).
Payments subject to withholding include compensation for services, interest, dividends, rents, royalties, annuities, and certain other payments.
However, it was cited by some Conservative parliamentarians as an example of a film which would not receive financial aid under Bill C-10.
The chambers may be divided into sections, mirroring the jurisdictions inherited from the tribunals which have been merged into the First-tier Tribunal.
Brown was previously Asa Griggs Candler professor of law at Emory University, and is now the Martin D.
On 31 October 2013, in another article said to be based on leaked documents, the paper reported that only 25,000 people – about 0.2% of all benefit recipients – were projected to transfer to the new programme by the time of the next general election in May 2015.
Individuals with tax payable during a calendar year must use the T1 to file their total income from all sources, including employment and self-employment income, interest, dividends, and capital gains, rental income, and so on.
Thereafter, the developing war with France had prompted the introduction of new forms of duty and further increases.
Prior to 2000, it was used to fund municipal services, the responsibility of the now-abolished Urban Council and Regional Council, through the Urban Services Department and Regional Services Department.
Personal income tax includes all applicable taxes, including all unvested social security contributions.
These included 43 luxurious customs houses built in a neo-classical style that Ledoux baptized ‘les Propylées de Paris’ (from the Greek propylaeum, a monumental gateway to a sacred enclosure).
States may choose to enter "reciprocal tax agreements" to exempt non-residents from some local taxes.
In the 2006 budget it was announced that the levy would in future rise annually in line with inflation, starting from 1 April 2007.
Each payment is typically treated as consisting of three components: a tax-free return of the seller’s basis; recognition of the remaining gain on the sale; and interest or investment return on the unpaid balance or funding assets.
CCH Incorporated was purchased by Wolters Kluwer, the Dutch publishing company on November 27, 1995.
In the inner circle around the King, thought began to be given to the creation of a new tax to which the rich and privileged would contribute.
Generally, while the net gain or loss is the same regardless of the classification of the debt (it will always be the difference between the basis of the burdened property and the amount of the debt), there are potentially huge tax differences.
Moldavia In 1741, Moldavian prince Grigore Ghica confirmed the obligation of each Jew to pay the crupca, an indirect tax on kosher meat similar to the Russian korobka.
At the 1998 federal election the party fielded 11 candidates for the House of Representatives and 6 for the Senate.
In the Republic of Ireland In the Republic of Ireland, P45 was also used as a reference to a form used by the Revenue Commissioners with the same function.
The tax credits were expanded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and most components will last until December 31, 2016.
Origin of term In the United States, the term "protest" as applied to a tax generally means "a declaration by a payer, esp.
Phantom distributions An exchange-traded fund (ETF) may choose to reinvest some of its realized capital gains instead of paying the money out as a distribution to unit holders.
Councils can use a mix of these different methodologies when assessing rates based on the value of holdings, for example land value for its general rate and capital value for a targeted rate.
Any income arising from sources outside Singapore and received in Singapore on or after 1 January 2004 by an individual (other than partners of a partnership) is exempt from tax.
"FM" was renamed Publications CCH Ltée in 1996 and was becoming one of the largest publishers of legislative information outside the Quebec government, producing French language products and reporting on Quebec provincial laws and regulations which are based on French Civil Law.
The Fair Work Commission previously decided in 2019 that it would not be appropriate to directly reduce the minimum wage increase that year from the Low and Middle Income Tax Offset.
A brief summary of the tax benefits is as follows: 30% up front income tax relief, which can be carried back to the previous tax year.
When all taxes were taken into account (income tax, property tax, GST and other indirect taxes), the top 10% of households accounted for 38% of the taxes paid, while the top 20% contributed 53% of all taxes.
The NTU favors either a Flat Tax or the FairTax (a national sales tax with rebate) for the United States, as opposed to the current income tax system.
When GST is combined with progressive taxes, and the revenues distributed to the poor, the total fiscal structure can be progressive.
(BdSt)) is a membership based organization conducting interest representation (political lobbying) as well as policy work in the field of fiscal and tax policy.
In July 2021, Tribunal judiciaire de Paris accepts Cairn's claim to seize Indian properties in France.
There is a complex relationship between taxable income and actual income, making it difficult to draw conclusions from the tables.
There is no requirement to file a T1 return for the year if the tax balance payable for that year is $0 or negative.
First, he found employment in the county assessor's office and in 1961 established Hillcrest vineyards on 20 acres of land near the Callahan Ridge.
Lebanese Christians, and some Shia Muslims believe Qana to have been the actual location of this event.
Nitrogen is a vital nutrient in the growth and development of yeasts and is usually provided from the wine grapes themselves.
It has also been proposed that DMDC inhibits the enzymes alcohol dehydrogenase and glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase by causing the methoxycarbonylation of their histidine components.
The process itself is a slow one with compounds such as the anthocyanins needing to pass through the cell membrane of the skins to come into contact with the wine.
B Back-Blend Blending unfermented, fresh grape juice into a fully fermented wine in order to add sweetness.
Several species of acetic acid bacteria are used in industry for production of certain foods and chemicals.
Gao has spoken out about how the climate crisis is affecting wine production, in particular causing damage to the vines due to increasingly harsh winters.
The process produces wastewater, pomace, and lees that require collection, treatment, and disposal or beneficial use.
Here he ran a vineyard which, at approximately 30 hectares, was the largest in the so-called eastern borderlands of what became, after 1918 the Polish Republic.
Manual riddling is still done for some Prestige Cuvées in Champagne, but has otherwise been largely abandoned because of the high labour costs.
Food Microbiol.Volume 163, issue 2-3, 204-213 External links International conference on acetic acid bacteria
Later developments Around 1910 management of the company passed to his son Robert, followed in 1928 by Robert's nephew (Thomas' grandson) Thomas Mayfield Hardy.
On 11 May 1910, he married May Marian Byard (died 1967), the eldest daughter of Hahndorf College headmaster D.
Ernest Singer is a winemaker in Japan known for promoting the use of the Koshu grape in Japanese wines.
It can also affect the sensory aspects of a wine, making the mouthfeel seem smoother and adding potential complexity in the flavor and aroma of the wine.
After two years working at various vineyards, he began working in the cellar at Château La Fleur Cailleau.
Topciu's mandate in Sfatul ended on May 18, 1918, when the Bulgarian-and-Gagauz delegation replaced him with another community member.
With red wines, the must is pressed after primary fermentation, which separates the skins and other solid matter from the liquid.
In December 1943, Thorn was elected deputy leader of the Country Party under Arthur Watts, replacing William Patrick.
Sparkling wines include wines labelled as Champagne, Cava, Mousseux, Crémant, Espumoso, Sekt and Spumante.
Yeast ceases its activity whenever all of the sugar in must has been converted into other chemicals or whenever the alcohol content has reached 15% alcohol per unit volume; a concentration strong enough to halt the enzymatic activity of almost all strains of yeast.
He scored the cantata for four vocal soloists, a four-part choir and a Baroque instrumental ensemble of trombone to reinforce the bass in the opening chorus, horn to support the soprano in the last movement, two oboes d'amore, strings and continuo.
Grape-treading or grape-stomping is part of the method of maceration used in traditional wine-making.
The method is known as the méthode champenoise, but the Champagne producers have successfully lobbied the European Union to restrict the use of that term within the EU only to wines produced in Champagne.
Viticulture In 1903, he graduated from Wincenty Pol state secondary school Wincenty Pol state secondary school at Ternopil, obtaining high marks in his school final exams.
Early life Thorn was born in York, Western Australia, to Isabella (née Blakiston) and Thomas Henry Thorn.
She sourced the organic fruit from her orchard and the Kiwi Growers Cooperative Society in Arunachal Pradesh.
Potassium – important for the uptake and utilization of phosphate Biotin – involved in the synthesis of proteins, fatty acids and nucleic acids.
The keys and time signatures are taken from the book on all cantatas by the Bach scholar Alfred Dürr, using the symbol for common time (4/4).
Elyakum Ostashinski or Elyakum Austshinsky (Hebrew: אליקום אוסטשינסקי), born 1909, died 1983, was the first mayor of Rishon LeZion, and later CEO of the Vineyard Association.
Négociants, who are also called wine merchants/traders, were the dominant force in the wine trade until the last 25 years for various reasons: Historically the owners of vineyards and producers of wine had no direct access to buyers.
Personal life A Roman Catholic, Reynell was a member of the Adelaide Hunt Club and enjoyed polo in his spare time.
Bohun had a reputation for being an excellent physician and was hired to perform as the personal physician for Thomas West, 3rd Baron De La Warr, who was the first governor of Virginia appointed by the Virginia Company of London.
Biblical account The second chapter of the Gospel of John states that Jesus was at a wedding (Ancient Greek: γάμος) in Cana with his disciples.
The electoral district includes the Barossa Valley wine region where Max Schubert was born and began working at Penfolds.
During carbonic maceration, an anaerobic environment is created by pumping carbon dioxide into a sealed container filled with whole grape clusters.
In 2007 she and her father founded Silver Heights winery on land he was already cultivating in Ningxia.
In 1997 Max was posthumously honoured with the creation of the Electoral district of Schubert in the South Australian House of Assembly, a seat in the lower house of the South Australian state parliament.
After graduating from the University of Paris in 1862, between 1864 and 1867 he served as a clerical officer at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
The yeast accomplishes this by utilizing glucose through a series of metabolic pathways that, in the presence of oxygen, produces not only large amounts of energy for the cell but also many different intermediates that the cell needs to function.
Process variations Different techniques are employed to adjust the level of sugar in the grape must.
Babich was the firm's winemaker for 35 vintages, and took over as managing director in the mid-1990s.
the white Savagnin and the reds Poulsard and Trousseau that are used to create highly unusual and rare wines.
They may also bind with the tannins in the wine to reduce the perception of bitterness or astringency in the wine.
Even so, in 2008, Singer's Koshu wine "Shizen Cuvee Denis Dubourdieu" was the first Japanese wine to be accepted by the EU for import.
He temporarily returned to France to serve in the French army during World War I between 1915 and 1919.
Base wine generally contains smaller amounts (up to 20 mg/L) of sulphur than regular wines, as it creates undesired copper(II) sulfate in reaction with copper in the pot stills during distillation into brandy.
Career After returning to Rishon LeZion, Ostashinski became director of the agricultural department of the Farmers Association, and director of the department of rehabilitation grower Citrus Marketing Board.
In years where the harvest is exceptional, a vintage (millesime) is declared and the wine must mature for at least three years.
In winemaking, clarification and stabilization are the processes by which insoluble matter suspended in the wine is removed before bottling.
Emma Gao (Chinese: 高源; pinyin: Gāo Yuán; born 1978) is a Chinese oenologist, who is the chief winemaker at Silver Heights winery, one of China's most prestigious vineyards.
He incorporated his winemaking enterprise as Asagiri Wine Company and was able to get the EU to accept the first Japanese wine for import.
When the sugar food source for the yeast and necessary nutrients such as nitrogen run out, or the alcohol level of the wine reaches such a point to where it is toxic for the yeast, the cells die and sink to the bottom of the fermentation vessel.
Continuous screw A continuous screw press differs from the above presses in that it does not process a single batch of grapes at a time.
Other techniques Semi-carbonic maceration is the winemaking technique where grapes are put through a short period of carbonic maceration, followed by conventional yeast fermentations.
It is produced by concentrating the teinturier grape Rubired, a cross between Alicante Ganzin and Tinta Cão, has 68% sugar and sells for approximately $135 a gallon.
Jesus was doing in His Father's house, it may be, what was then being done in every house in Jerusalem.
Topciu described the controversy as a one-man intrigue by Vladimir Croitoru, whom he expelled from the party in September; by then, Sereda had been confirmed as the PNC organizer in Bulboaca.
Basket press One of the earliest styles of mechanical press, these can range from a simple wooden basket with vertical slats and a capstan providing pressure to large hydraulic presses that can even be enclosed to prevent exposure to oxygen.
In 1990, Derenoncourt was offered a position at the Corre-Macquin family's cellar at the Château Pavie-Macquin vineyard, and in 1996 was hired as a winemaker by Stephan von Neipperg to his estates, including Château Canon-la-Gaffelière and the "super cuvée" La Mondotte.
Promoted to lieutenant colonel, he was killed shortly after on 28 August at the Battle of Hill 60, aged 31.
In the case of a stuck fermentation, a winemaker may wish to transfer the must to a second vessel and use stronger, more aggressive yeasts with high fermentation temperatures to re-initiate the fermentation process.
The most common yeast associated with winemaking is Saccharomyces cerevisiae which has been favored due to its predictable and vigorous fermentation capabilities, tolerance of relatively high levels of alcohol and sulfur dioxide as well as its ability to thrive in normal wine pH between 2.8 and 4.
Galets roulés are components of the terrain, or terroir, and a distinguishing feature of many of the vineyards in the Côtes du Rhône AOC and more specifically Châteauneuf-du-Pape AOC and other top wine-producing areas in the regions such as Gigondas AOC and Vacqueyras AOC.
Findings including Hasmonean coins and ostraca using the Jewish script indicate its population in ancient times was predominantly Jewish.
Shortly after, her father, also a winemaker, spent several weeks in France and upon his return, he encouraged his daughter to pursue the same craft.
Cornelius died from myeloma in Blenheim, on 11 April 2026, at the age of 49, having been diagnosed with the condition in late 2025.
Unlike normal fermentation where yeast converts sugar into alcohol, carbonic maceration works by enzymes within the grape breaking down the cellular matter to form ethanol and other chemical properties.
All of these cuttings had been collected in 1959, from Louis Martini's Stanly Ranch Vineyard in Carneros, California with the exception of Zinfandel which had been sourced locally from the Doerner family who had come to the Umpqua Valley from Nap in the 1880s.
These conferences however, were not limited only to Catholics as Father Edward Dowling is noted to have hosted conferences where Protestant and Jewish couples attended.
The Jura is an eastern French winemaking region located between Burgundy and Switzerland - and its location has meant that some unique grape varieties (e.g.
Bob McLean (27 September 1947 – 9 April 2015) was an Australian winemaker known as a key promoter of Australian wine abroad.
In April of that year, the Romanian People's Tribunals, which investigated war crimes, had issued an invitation for "D.
He was educated at Henderson High School, and after leaving school, he began working for the family company in 1958.
In beer- and wine-making, one crushed Campden tablet is typically used per US gallon (3.8 L) of must or wort.
In June 2008, Derenoncourt and Vignerons Consultants was hired by Francis Ford Coppola to work on the Napa Valley property Rubicon Estate Winery.
The Trifon Zarezan celebration is also known by various other names: The day of the wine makers, St.
Description The purpose of marriage preparation, Pre-Cana, under canon law is to make sure that people are free to marry and have the capacity to marry.
Robert Cyril Hardy (26 June 1894 – 7 May 1917 died in action, France) Kenneth Thomas Hardy (23 May 1900 – 13 November 1970) managing director 1938 to 1965; succeeded by Thomas Walter Hardy Gertrude Mary Hardy (c.
Biography Sommer was born in San Francisco to Hermann and Elizabeth Sommer, a chemist and microbiologist, respectively.
It was a disruptive new strategy, alternately lauded by journalists and dismissed by competing academics, but not most winemakers.
In 2001, the minimum must weight requirements for SGN in Alsace were increased to 18.2% for Gewürztraminer and Pinot gris, and 16.4% for Riesling and Muscat, expressed as potential alcohol.
Owning only a small portion of a particular high-quality single vineyard (lieu-dit) meant that a grower often had insufficient wine from a parcel to vinify on its own.
Alongside viticulturalist George Hostetter, he was to have a major impact on the long-term prospects of the North American wine industry.
His father Tadeusz Czarkowski-Golejewski was also a land owner: Tadeusz Czarkowski-Golejewski had, in addition, become involved in politics, serving as a member of the Diet of Galicia and Lodomeria between 1908 and 1913, during the time when the entire region was still part of the Austrian empire.
Vineyards occupied 2% of the area of agricultural land in the region, at the same time they provided 15% of cash receipts and up to 25% of profit from the sale of plant products.
Unlike an "arrested fermentation", where the winemaker intentionally stops fermentation (such as in the production of fortified wines), a stuck fermentation is an unintentional and unwanted occurrence that can lead to the wine being spoiled by bacteria and oxidation.
In 1961 a Bin 58 Cabernet Sauvignon was produced using Block 42 fruit, and again in 1963 as Bin 63 - a wine that won the prestigious Jimmy Watson Memorial Trophy in 1964.
Brix and actual dissolved solids content When a sugar solution is measured by refractometer or density meter, the °Bx or °P value obtained by entry into the appropriate table only represents the amount of dry solids dissolved in the sample if the dry solids are exclusively sucrose.
The reason why Viognier has been kept in Côte-Rôtie (while for example the white grapes Marsanne and Roussanne are hardly found any more in red Hermitage or other red Rhône wines where they are allowed) is that it adds signature floral aromas to the wines.
A process of partially emptying and refilling barrels with beer is undertaken by craft breweries in the United States.
Cyryl's younger brother, Wiktor Czarkowski-Golejewski, was a cavalry officer who in 1940, also fell victim to the Katyn massacre.
Their names are among the 3,435 included on the so-called Ukrainian Katyn List dated 25 November 1940 and forwarded to Poland's then deputy Prosecutor General, Stefan Śnieżko, by General Andriy Khomich, the deputy commander of the Security Service of Ukraine, on 5 May 1994.
Cornelius studied at Lincoln University, graduating in 2004 with a Bachelor of Viticulture and Oenology degree, and went on to become the winemaker at Mud House in Marlborough.
See also French wine List of wine personalities References External links Derenoncourt Consultants (in French) Derenoncourt California
Torulaspora delbrueckii was formerly known as Saccharomyces delbrueckii or Saccharomyces rosei or Saccharomyces roseus, and the anamorph is called Candida colliculosa (for a complete list of synonyms, see CBS's website).
One of these was Ion Capsâz of Tomai, who became doorman of his Tunari offices—and who, in turn, assisted others fleeing the Budjak.
Hardy Street, Goodwood, South Australia, was named in his honour, as he had purchased a portion of the suburb in May 1838, and sold it to his son Arthur in 1841.
In the mid-19th century, Louis Pasteur noted the connection between yeast and the process of the fermentation in which the yeast act as catalyst and mediator through a series of a reaction that convert sugar into alcohol.
In contrast, Hougang is the Hanyu Pinyin spelling but the Hokkien pronunciation Aū-káng is most commonly used.
Scholars have argued that the "degree of order" within the text "can be exaggerated" but rubrics are used throughout to mark divisions.
Nannerl is an Austro-Bavarian Upper German language diminutive for the name Anna that is also in use as an independent given name.
The largest non-Christian faith in Wales is Islam, with about 22,000 members in 2001 served by about 40 mosques, following the first mosque established in Cardiff.
(1916–1980), American author and poet Thaddeus Stevens (1792–1868), United States Representative from Pennsylvania Robert Thaddeus R.
Prominent individuals with no direct connection to deaf culture are sometimes also assigned name signs; for example, George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, William Shakespeare, and Vincent van Gogh all have name signs.
"Long knives" was a term used by the Iroquois, and later by the Mingo and other indigenous peoples of the Ohio Country to designate white settlers from Virginia, in contradistinction to those of New York and Pennsylvania.
48 BC), loyal follower of Cleopatra See also Apollodorus of Smyrna, a copyist error for Apollonides of Smyrna Apollo (disambiguation) Apollinaris (disambiguation) Apollonia (disambiguation) Apollonius (disambiguation)
Samples were taken from two boxes of human remains located the in British Institute in Eastern Africa (BIEA) in Nairobi, originally excavated in the 1950s and 1960s by Chittick.
A legend of Saint Olaf recounts how a troll built a church for the saint at a fantastic speed and price, but the saint was able to free himself by learning the troll's name during a walk in the woods.
A 14th-century Icelandic manuscript describes a kuenna land ("Woman Land") north of India populated by hermaphroditic women.
Jude is an English variant of Judas, a name derived from Ἰούδας (Ioudas), the Ancient Greek form of יְהוּדָה.
960s), Byzantine general People with the surname Michael Theodoulou See also Abdullah, an Arabic name with the same meaning Obadiah, a Hebrew name with the same meaning Theodul Pass Theodul Glacier Theodula of Anazarbus Théodule == References ==
Insults Pejorative, politics Animal epithets may be pejorative, indeed in some cultures highly offensive.
His study of this material revealed a great number of substrate phenomena from Uralic languages and extended our knowledge of the formal and semantical development of toponyms as well as of the ancient state of the Uralic languages.
Sammy is a nickname, frequently for people named Samuel or Samantha, and also an English spelling of the Arabic name Sami.
Woody (1833–1912), American politician and judge Joey Woody (born 1973), American track and field athlete Larry Woody, American sports writer Russ Woody, American author and television producer
In some cases the traditional English exonym is based on a local Chinese variety instead of Mandarin, in the case of Xiamen, where the name Amoy is closer to the Hokkien pronunciation.
See also List of ancient Egyptian papyri Amenemope Onomastics Prosopography References Parkinson, R., et alia, Cracking Codes, the Rosetta Stone, and Decipherment, (Berkeley: University of California Press, c.
Regional usage Argentina The word gringo is mostly used in rural areas following the original Spanish meaning.
In Ethiopia and Eritrea, the terms Tukrīr (Amharic) and Tǝkwǝrir (Tigrinya) are used to designate persons of West or Central African origin.
For example, foreign football players in the Brazilian Championship that come from other South American countries are referred to as "gringos" by the sports media and by sports fans.
Uniform Commercial Code Uniform Commercial Code §1-201(37) of the United States generally defines signed as "using any symbol executed or adopted with present intention to adopt or accept a writing".
Research can be contemporary, with data collected through surveys and ethnographical inquiry of modern societies and communities, or historical, based on historical written sources.
This organization replaced the former International Committee of Onomastic Sciences, which was composed exclusively of representatives of member countries and did not welcome individual researchers as this new structure allows.
The name Mugat may derive from an Arabic term for Zoroastrians (Literally “fire cult followers” or "Heathen").
More often today, the Austuriani are recognized as the product of local social transformation, given the association of the name with the same space over two centuries.
Hydronyms include the proper names of rivers and streams, lakes and ponds, swamps and marshes, seas and oceans.
Fyodor, Fedor (Russian: Фёдор) or Feodor is the Russian-language form of the Greek-language name Theodoros (Greek: Θεόδωρος) meaning "God's gift" or "god-given".
The name (רעמסס: Raˁamses, Raˁmeses) occurs in the Hebrew Bible, not as the name of a king but rather the name of one of the two cities which was built for the Pharaoh of the oppression by the forced labor of the Israelites (Exodus, 1:11), the other such city being Pithom.
History "Kartoffel" refers to a person of German descent, particularly an ethnic German from the perspective of allochthone populations in Germany.
It came to be used as a given name among the Puritans in the 17th century and was by them taken to the American colonies.
Published in 1659: Weyman, Daniel, Antwoorde in versoeck, vande heeren Weyman ende Copez, Leiden, Jan Dyvoet, 1659; 16 cm.
2007–2009), Deputy Minister of Interior for Counter-Narcotics and former Governor of Badakhshan, Afghanistan Baz Bamigboye, British journalist Baz Muhammad Khan (fl.
The same convention applies to missiles, with air-launched ground attack missiles beginning with the letter "K" and surface-to-surface missiles (ranging from intercontinental ballistic missiles to antitank rockets) with the letter "S", air-to-air missiles "A", and surface-to-air missiles "G".
Literary critic Egil Törnqvist mentions possible risks in choosing certain names for literary characters.
There have been concerns that signature reviews improperly reject ballots from young and minority voters at higher rates than others, with no or limited ability of voters to appeal the rejection.
His body was discovered by a chamberlain of the Caffè dei Segretari who usually brought Tassini breakfast each morning - on 22 December 1899 he had not already opened his door and the chamberlain called a blacksmith to force it open.
In linguistics, a hypostasis (from the Greek word ὑπόστασις meaning foundation, base or that which stands behind) is a relationship between a name and a known quantity, as a cultural personification (i.e.
Government and politics Mo Brooks (born 1954), American politician from Alabama Mo Mowlam (1949–2005), British politician Mo Udall (1922–1998), U.S.
Subsequent art history, beginning with Pliny's chapters that gave common names to works such as by Praxiteles.
Even among Welsh speakers, very few people speak only Welsh, with nearly all being bilingual in English.
Jerome's script) and in general for the Illyrian language (and foundation of the San Girolamo dei Croati and related Pontifical Croatian College of St.
Green (1761–1841), American politician Isaiah Harris (1929–2001), baseball pitcher in the Negro leagues Isaiah Hart (1792–1861), American plantation owner and founder of Jacksonville, Florida Isaiah Hartenstein (born 1998), German-American basketball player Isaiah T.
429–4th century BC), follower of Socrates and narrator of the dialogue described by Plato in his Symposium Apollodorus of Seleucia (fl.
1612–1648), a prince of the Georgiam Kingdom of Kakheti As a surname: David Datuna (born 1974), Georgian-American artist
Bogdanov (Богданов), or its feminine form Bogdanova (Богданова), is a common Russian and Bulgarian surname, derived by a genitive inflection from the given name Bogdan.
Gert is a mainly masculine given name (sometimes a short form of Gerrit, Gerard, etc.), with some female bearers (short for Gertrude).
At the time the language was spoken, it was known as *þiudisk, meaning "of the people"—as opposed to the Latin language "of the clergy"—which is the source of the English word Dutch.
The popularity of the name Winnie steadily declined among American women in the 20th century, but in the 1990 US Census, still ranked 699th of 4276.
However, there are important regional differences: while it is the 2nd most common surname in the Lower Sava Statistical Region, and the 4th most common surname in the Coastal–Karst Statistical Region, it is extremely rare in eastern Slovenia.
Traditionally, only works of art in the fine arts are titled, but convenient descriptive titles may be needed for works in the decorative arts, for cataloging, museum labels and similar fields.
Following Ukrainian independence and dissolution of the Soviet Union (1990–91), the official position of the government and some Ukrainian politicians has been that the Rusyns are an integral part of the Ukrainian nation.
In 1915, during the First World War, the French Navy's Hydrographic Service removed all those that reminded them of the enemy, for example more than twenty.
With Ruff Ruffman Chet, from Total Drama Presents: The Ridonculous Race Chet "The Rocket" Steadman, from the film Rookie of the Year Chester "Chet" Desmond, from Fire Walk with Me Chet Kaminski, from Ash vs Evil Dead Chet Shaft, from Scott the Woz Chet, from Fallout: New Vegas Dr.
Ed is a masculine given name, usually a short form (hypocorism) of Edward, Edgar, Edmund, Edwin, Edith, etc.
See also Norsemen Frankish Empire References This article contains content from the Owl Edition of Nordisk familjebok, a Swedish encyclopedia published between 1904 and 1926, now in the public domain.
In addition, UNGEGN has a Task Team for Africa and coordinates the work of countries in developing their toponymic guidelines.
It may refer to: Sepandar Kamvar (born 1977), American computer scientist, artist, author and entrepreneur Sep Lambert (1876–1959), Irish cricketer Sep Ledger (1889–1917), South African rugby union player Sep Ruf (1908–1982), German architect and designer Sep E.
The name "Sioux", an abbreviated form of Nadouessioux, most likely derived from a Proto-Algonquian term, *-a·towe· ('foreign-speaking).
Official name of Croatia Throughout its history, there were many official political names of Croatia in the 20th century.
Related terms have existed outside the French-speaking world: Godames was historically used in Brazil, while Gotama was used in East Africa.
In these environments, including the extension in a command name unnecessarily exposes an implementation detail which puts all references to the commands from other programs at future risk if the implementation changes.
The Spanish and Italian Fran is more common for men, while the English name is mostly used for women.
Wilfie is a nickname of: Wilf Greaves (born 1935), Canadian retired boxer Wilfrid Reid (1884-1973), English golfer and golf course designer Wilfrid Wilfie Starr (1908-1976), Canadian National Hockey League player See also Wilf
As a sample for these guidelines he elaborated Toponymic Guidelines for International Cartography of his native Austria and presented them as Working Paper Nr.
A praise name is a figurative or descriptive name that is given to either a person, animal, clan, deity, or inanimate object.
It was popularized in the 19th century in the Anglosphere by a character in Sir Walter Scott's 1821 novel Kenilworth, which was based on the story of Amy Robsart.
Sammy Watts, character in Angelina Ballerina Businesses Sammy Corporation, Japanese amusement company See also Sam (disambiguation) Sammie (name)
Dietfurt an der Altmühl, city in the province of Neumarkt in the Upper Palatinate in Bavaria, where is also the Convent of Dietfurt.
As the word has no connection to physical appearance in Brazil, black African or African American foreigners are also called gringos.
1555–1628), Portuguese Jewish scholar Immanuel Alm (1767–1809), Finnish painter Immanuel Bäck (1876–1939), Finnish clergyman and politician Immanuel Benveniste (1608–c.
He died of an apoplectic fit in his house near the sotoportego delle Cariole in Venice, not far from San Zulian.
Related organizations The American Name Society is allied with the Modern Language Association (MLA).
Women Billie Allen (1925-2015), American actress Billie Anthony (1932-1991), Scottish singer Billie Barry (1921-2014), Irish singer, dancer and choreographer Billie Bennett (1874-1951), American film actress Billie Bird (1908-2002), American actress and comedian Billie Black (born c.
K., 'Towards a Theory of Nicknames: A Case for Socio-onomastics', Names 38/4 (1990).https://ans-names.pitt.edu/ans/article/view/1253 Nordic Socio-onomastics Website - https://www.nordicsocioonomastics.org/about-socio-onomastics/ == References ==
See also Gau (territory) – also gives the etymology and language history of Gäu Gäu – regions with the name Natural regions referred to as Gäu plateaus: Neckar and Tauber Gäu Plateaus Gäu Plateaus in the Main Triangle Werra Gäu Plateaus Gäuboden Altsiedelland | Altsiedel landscape
Augie (sometimes spelled Auggie) is a nickname for variations of the name Augustus, which is derived from Latin.
It declined gradually during the late 19th and early-to-mid 20th centuries, falling below rank 700 in 1964.
They may be metonymic, naming a person's profession, generally in the Middle Ages; toponymic, naming the place where a person lived; or nicknames, comparing the person favourably or otherwise with the named animal.
It contains topical research reports as well as basic theoretical articles concerning all areas of scholarly name research.
Notable people with the surname include: Bolajoko Olubukunola Olusanya, Nigerian pediatrician and social entrepreneur G.O.
Baz is a surname, given name and nickname, often a short form (hypocorism) of Basil or Barry in English.
Trisha is either: a female given name usually derived from the female Latin given name Patricia (derived from the Latin word patrician, meaning 'noble'), a Hindu unisex given name a transliteration of तृषा (Tṛṣā) meaning thirst or ambition.
The richest and most powerful slave trader in all of recorded history is Tippu Tip, a man born in Zanzibar with mixed Bantu and Omani ancestry.
People Given name Ollie Marie Adams (1925–1998), American gospel and R&B singer Ollie Bassett (born 1998), Northern Irish footballer Ollie Bostock (born 2007), Welsh footballer Ollie E.
To give some examples from Nannerl's time: her little brother was addressed as "Wolfgangerl"; Joseph Haydn as a child was "Sepperl" (second syllable), Haydn's 16-year-old pupil Josepha von Genzinger was "Peperl".
It is also a French affectionate term for a kitten and a French vernacular slang term for vulva or vagina, akin to the double meaning of the English “pussy”.
Continuing this practice, and also using a dot as a separator for display and input purposes (while not storing the dot), were various DEC operating systems (such as RT-11), followed by CP/M and subsequently DOS.
Examples Persons Nanook, a Native Alaskan Tex, a cowboy Hanako, an archetypal Japanese name for girls.
The principle that coreferring names are substitutable salva veritate thus appears to fail in the context of belief reports (and similarly for other propositional attitude reports).
"Jodie", a song by Saves the Day from the album Can't Slow Down (1998) "Jodie", a song by SZA from the 2022 deluxe edition of the album Ctrl (2017) See also Jodee Nimerichter, American arts administrator
It is stated that knowing someone's, or something's, true name therefore gives the person (who knows the true name) power over them.
311), martyr, patron saint of florists Dorothea of Montau (1347–1394), Roman Catholic saint, hermitess and visionary Other people First name Dorotea Bucca (1360–1436), Italian physician Dorotea van Fornenbergh (fl.
Eliana, Elianna, אֱלִיעָנָה (Hebrew), Ηλιάνα (Greek), إليانا (Arabic), is a feminine given name found with that spelling in Hebrew, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish.
1647–1697), Dutch stage actress Dorothea Binz (1920–1947), German concentration camp officer executed for war crimes Dorothea Brooking (1916–1999), British children's television producer and director Dorothea H.
As a spelling variant of Clio, the name is etymologically derived from the Greek root κλέω/κλείω, Latinised as kleos (meaning "to recount", "to make famous", "to celebrate", "glory", "to praise" or "to acclaim").
Known bearers of the name include: Smendes, pharaoh of the 21st dynasty; Smendes II, High Priest of Amun during the 21st dynasty; Smendes III, High Priest of Amun during the 22nd dynasty; Nesubanebdjed, a palace official, married to the sister of Nectanebo I.
The Mugat are devout Sunni Muslims, but some traces of pre-Islamic beliefs have continued to endure.
Other Berber varieties to which it refers include: Ghomara Central Atlas Tamazight Senhaja de Srair language South Oran Berber (various ksour in southwestern Algeria and southeastern Morocco) Oued Righ Berber (around Touggourt) Tunisian Berber in general: Djerbi, Matmata (Tamezret), Douiri.
The expulsion phase is considered an extension of the emission phase, triggered by reaching a certain level of spinal nerve activation.
See also List of androgen esters § Nandrolone esters References External links Laurabolin (nandrolone laurate) - William Llewellyn's Anabolic.org Archived 2016-07-26 at the Wayback Machine
Whereas norethisterone has a ketone at C3 and lynestrenol has no substituent at C3, etynodiol has a hydroxyl group at the position.
Each crus begins proximally as a blunt-pointed process in anterior to the tuberosity of the ischium, along the perineal surface of the conjoined (ischiopubic) ramus.
Unlike all other genitally situated cancers, the incidence of penis cancer is related to the sexual mode of transmission.
This indispensable structure is a continuation of the body of the human penis, differing from other mammalian penises in that it has no baculum (or erectile bone) and instead relies exclusively on engorgement with blood to reach its erect state.
Illness and death In 2002, he moved with his family to Villa Carlos Paz (35 km away from Córdoba (city).
"Tissue selectivity and potential clinical applications of trenbolone (17beta-hydroxyestra-4,9,11-trien-3-one): A potent anabolic steroid with reduced androgenic and estrogenic activity".
Dihydrotestosterone butyrate, also known as androstanolone butyrate or stanolone butyrate, as well as 5α-dihydrotestosterone 17β-butanoate, is a synthetic androgen and anabolic steroid and a dihydrotestosterone ester that was never marketed.
Nandrolone furylpropionate (NFP) (JANTooltip Japanese Accepted Name) (brand name Demelon), also known as 19-nortestosterone 17β-(2-furanyl)propanoate, is a synthetic androgen and anabolic steroid and a nandrolone ester.
They are named for Mathias-Marie Duval and Walter Schiller who described them in the late nineteenth century.
Diminished sperm production is a common side-effect of testosterone replacement therapy because of the decreased intra-testicular concentration of testosterone and suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis.
However, at least one case of pseudohermaphroditism (virilized genitalia) has been observed that may have been due to noretynodrel.
Formestane, formerly sold under the brand name Lentaron among others, is a steroidal, selective aromatase inhibitor which is used in the treatment of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer in postmenopausal women.
Conversely, replacement of the C17α alkyl group with an ethynyl group greatly reduces but does not abolish androgenic activity, as in ethisterone (17α-ethynyltestosterone) and norethisterone (17α-ethynyl-19-nortestosterone).
They act by decreasing acetylcholine effects on the smooth muscle of the bladder, thus helping control symptoms of an overactive bladder.
Activation of the androgen receptor stimulates protein synthesis, which increases muscle growth, lean body mass, and bone mineral density.
This detail became less relevant after bolandione and 4-androstenedione were banned by major sporting bodies.
A catalogue of his published obituaries in the archives of The Guardian provides a historical perspective to contemporary news as the deaths of the noteworthy are documented and he reviews their lives.
It is the 3β-sulfate ester and a metabolite of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and circulates in far greater relative concentrations than DHEA.
He scoured Hansard, gossip columns, vote papers and committee reports to compile his profiles of the personnel of the British Parliament and assessed their character traits, history, opinions and psychological drives.
He was the primary artist on Archie, the company's flagship title, from the late 1950s through the mid-1970s.
temperament) tend to yield inconsistent results, while those testing perception and cognition are typically more consistent.
When the sperm is exposed to chemo-attractant, especially progesterone; the sperm will exhibit sudden flagellar arrest, followed by sharp turn and hyperactivation.
From the word mikreh (מקרה), the rabbis derived the term keri (קרי) to refer to an emission of semen.
Identified the first cell surface antigens distinguishing cells of different lineages, introducing the concept of cell surface antigens that could differentiate different cell types.
Spermiogenesis is the final stage of spermatogenesis, during which the spermatids develop into mature spermatozoa.
The language of "andropause" and its supposed parallels with menopause have not been accepted by the medical community.
Julian Hart Lewis FRS (12 August 1946 – 30 April 2014) was an English developmental biologist and researcher whose work shed light on the nature of cellular timing mechanisms and their role in animal development.
The testicles remain in the body cavity in all other vertebrates, including both the cloacal animals.
Society and culture Generic names Mibolerone is the generic name of the drug and its INNTooltip International Nonproprietary Name, USANTooltip United States Adopted Name, and BANTooltip British Approved Name.
History Lynestrenol was developed by the Dutch pharmaceutical company Organon in the late 1950s and was introduced for medical use in 1961.
For reference, circulating concentrations of danazol are in the range of 2 μM at a dosage of 600 mg/day in women.
Ethiopian version The Ethiopian authorities asserted that the two Italians had been killed not by Ethiopian troops but by local people, angered by the bombing of their villages.
However, two 19-nortestosterone derivatives of vinyltestosterone, norvinisterone (17α-vinyl-19-nortestosterone) and norgesterone (17α-vinyl-δ5(10)-19-nortestosterone), have been marketed.
After Malcolm Glazer had completed his takeover of Manchester United he de-listed it from the stock exchange and made it a private company once again.
Chemistry Norgestrel, also known as rac-13-ethyl-17α-ethynyl-19-nortestosterone or as rac-13-ethyl-17α-ethynylestr-4-en-17β-ol-3-one, is a synthetic estrane steroid and a derivative of testosterone.
Testolactone has also been used to postpone precocious puberty because of its ability to block estrogen production.
Decapacitation factors are glycoproteins or glycolipids that stabilize the membrane and prevent premature capacitation.
In 2008, he was diagnosed with prostate cancer which obligated him to undergo chemotherapy sessions every three weeks in the city of Córdoba.
Upon learning of his membership in the Communist Party USA, the Navy promoted him to liaison with the United States Department of State due to a shortage of Japanese linguists.
The polymer has magnetoelastic behavior that allows it to stretch and elongate to better line the vas deferens.
References External links Official website at the Wayback Machine (archived 2025-10-31) Independent replica
This opening is for a while the primitive urogenital opening, and it extends forward to the corona glandis.
Androstenedione, a 19-carbon steroid hormone produced in the adrenal glands and the gonads, is where estrone synthesis originates and is the source of estrogen in postmenopausal women.
6α-MP is structurally related to medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA; 6α-methyl-17α-acetoxyprogesterone) and megestrol acetate (MGA; 6-dehydro-6-methyl-17α-acetoxyprogesterone), which possess androgenic and/or antiandrogenic activity to varying degrees similarly.
Methyldienolone (developmental code name RU-3467), also known as 17α-methyl-19-nor-δ9-testosterone, as well as 17α-methylestra-4,9-dien-17β-ol-3-one, is a synthetic, orally active anabolic-androgenic steroid (AAS) and a 17α-alkylated derivative of 19-nortestosterone.
It is reported that he would have been eligible to be awarded the Purple Heart for a head wound in New Guinea, however he refused treatment and returned to action, wearing an eyepatch.
Quenton Harold Leach (20 August 1972 – 7 April 2020) was an Australian rules footballer who played in the Australian Football League (AFL) for the Fremantle Dockers between 1995 and 1998.
Certain alleles being paired together can lead to complete reproductive failure/incompatibility as a result of differential compatibility between different variants.
It was reported in 2002 that tibolone or its metabolite δ4-tibolone is transformed by aromatase into the potent estrogen 7α-methylethinylestradiol in women, analogously to the transformation of norethisterone into ethinylestradiol.
Pharmacology Etynodiol is a prodrug of norethisterone, and is converted immediately and completely into norethisterone.
It is significantly inferior to aromatase inhibitors in both clinical effectiveness and tolerability as a second-line therapy for breast cancer after tamoxifen failure.
Remains of the left Wolffian duct, such as give rise to the duct of Gärtner, represented by dotted lines; that of the right side is marked w.
The DNA is first packaged with specific nuclear basic proteins, which are subsequently replaced with protamines during spermatid elongation.
In contrast to estradiol, such a polymer is not possible with testosterone because testosterone has only one hydroxyl group and hence does not have the two hydroxyl groups necessary for linking the testosterone units together.
Men can wake up during a wet dream, or sleep through it, but for women, some researchers have added the requirement that they should awaken during the orgasm, and perceive that the female should have an orgasm for it to count as a wet dream.
The Centre for Human Reproductive Science also has psychology collaborations to actively pursue research enabling better understanding of patient feelings and care during fertility treatment; and issues surrounding motivation to be a donor and receipt of donor gametes.
AAS that are listed as marketed may be marketed as one or more esters rather than as the listed AAS itself.
It was also prescribed off-label as a pharmaceutical performance enhancement to weight lifters and other athletes.
Food and Drug Administration approved tadalafil to treat the signs and symptoms of benign prostatic hyperplasia, and for the treatment of BPH and erectile dysfunction (ED), when the conditions occur simultaneously.
Although oxandrolone had long been used to accelerate growth in children with idiopathic short stature, it is unlikely to increase adult height, and in some cases may even decrease it; as such, as of 2015, oxandrolone has largely been replaced by growth hormone for this use.
Research shows that from the age of 36 onwards, sperm motility decreases from 40% Grade A & B to 31% in one's 50s.
Psychopathy is heavily increased if a person has underlying disorders for it when roid rage is present, where research shows the connection between substance misuse/abuse of anabolic steroids to violence, repeated imprisonment, and disrespect for authority.
This is accomplished by the cremaster muscle in the abdomen and the dartos fascia (muscular tissue under the skin that makes the scrotum appear wrinkly).
History The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved air polymer-type A based on literature reports.
At the beginning of the stage, the spermatid is a more or less circular cell containing a nucleus, Golgi apparatus, centriole and mitochondria; by the end of the process, it has radically transformed into an elongated spermatozoon, complete with a head, midpiece, and tail.
The escapees also reported that they found out up to 100 Chinese men remained captives in Vietnam after they were caught and castrated by the Vietnamese after their ships were blown off course into Vietnam.
Early clinical trials demonstrated that Sefaxersen effectively reduced complement factor B (CFB) levels, supporting its advancement into Phase 2/3 trials for IgA nephropathy (IgAN) and Phase 2 trials for geographic atrophy (GA).
Age affects the recovery time, with younger men recovering faster than older men, though not always.
See also Male accessory gland infection (MAGI) Female accessory glands: Skene's glands and Bartholin's glands (cf.
Androgenic Trenbolone enanthate can include several androgenic side effects such as increased body hair growth, acne, and potential baldness in predisposed individuals.
It is more appropriate to compare norclostebol to testosterone propionate due to the use of an ester.
Medical uses Testolactone is mainly used for treating various types of breast cancer in women who have been through menopause or whose ovaries no longer function.
Lynestrenol and its metabolites are predominantly excreted in urine, less in feces, active metabolite norethisterone elimination half-life being 16 or 17 hours.
Saltman Endowed Chair in Science Education was established by UCSD to recognize a distinguished senior member of Biological Sciences faculty for his/her commitment to, and success in teaching science.
Professor Caroline Pukall, who co-wrote the first in-depth study on EH, has suggested using the term throbbing crotch syndrome.
Medical uses Available forms Mestanolone was available in the form of 25 mg sublingual tablets (brand name Ermalone).
The muscular tissue is important in the functionality of the prostate, and provides the force for excreting the fluid produced by prostatic glands.
LDR prostate brachytherapy (seed or line source implantation) is a proven treatment for low to high risk localized prostate cancer (when the cancer is contained within the prostate).
Retraining masturbatory practices and re-calibrating the mismatch of sexual fantasies with arousal are essential when these are contributing to DE.
Synthesis and applications In the total synthesis, bolandione is made by Birch reduction of estrone methyl ether to nandrolone and back-oxidation of the reduced 17-keto group.
Possible problems could be that the egg is not released at the optimum time for fertilization, that it may not enter the fallopian tube, sperm may not be able to reach the egg, fertilization may fail to occur, transport of the zygote may be disturbed, or implantation fails.
Irritable male syndrome (IMS) is an annual behavior pattern that has been described in Soay sheep and other mammals with a strictly seasonal breeding pattern and described in a 2002 literature review of animal behavior by Lincoln A.
Norethisterone is available both alone (brand names Camila, Errin, Heather, Micronor, Nor-QD, others) and in combination with EE (Norinyl, Ortho-Novum, others) or mestranol (Norinyl, Ortho-Novum, others), while norethisterone acetate is available only in combination with EE (Norlestrin, others).
Safety The thoroughness of carcinogenicity and toxicity testing in clinical trials had been questioned after phase I of clinical trials on the basis of presence of styrene and maleic anhydride in the formulation.
Legality Trenbolone enanthate has never had regulatory approval for human use from any single health agency.
The low potency of ethyltestosterone is in notable contrast to norethandrolone (17α-ethyl-19-nortestosterone), the C19 nor analogue.
Usually, it results from obstruction of the scrotal entrance or from overdevelopment and lengthening of a segment of the gubernaculum.
Hai Gaon and Chananel ben Chushiel say that a ba'al keri, while he may study Torah, may not pray until he goes to a mikveh.
Heavy use of anabolic steroids with roid rage can cause heavy distress as well depending on how long the steroids have been abused.
However, they were banned from sports in 1999 by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and are currently on the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) list of prohibited substances.
This can be done to serve as a positive control when assessing the acrosome reaction of a sperm sample by flow cytometry or fluorescence microscopy.
This is curious given that awareness of the condition goes back centuries, with many barely remembered terms having been applied to it between the early 18th through early 20th centuries.
Stanley was diagnosed with prostate cancer in September 2019, and died from the disease on February 9, 2023, at the age of 48.
Kamel Hamed and Labib Salamah, two other members of El Uisci's paramedic team in Ethiopia, supported El Uisci's assertions.
Rather, it is recommended that in vitro fertilization should be offered to women with unexplained infertility when they have not conceived after two years of regular unprotected sexual intercourse.
Society and culture Generic names Norethisterone is the INNTooltip International Nonproprietary Name and BANTooltip British Approved Name of the drug while norethindrone is its USANTooltip United States Adopted Name.
The O-acetate ester of cloxotestosterone, cloxotestosterone acetate (brand name Caprosem), in contrast to cloxotestosterone, has been marketed.
It was used clinically at a dosage of one ampoule (76 mg, corresponding to 50 mg trenbolone base) every 10 days.
The 4 pins on the back of the case were multiplexed and could be either used with Spy-Bi-Wire (serialized version of JTAG) or serial out/ground.
Photo format By default, iPhones save photos in the HEIF (High Efficiency Image File) format, which is a space-saving format with a .heic file extension.
In September 2015, Apple launched a new subset of the Apple Watch, with a stainless steel body and leather band, in collaboration with Hermès.
As with the previous model, the device itself does not contain a charging port and must be placed inside a special Micro USB-equipped charging case.
According to Jacobs, the Model Two would have focused on variation, rather than being an enhancement to or exploiting planned obsolescence of the Model One.
The company has so far not responded to customer criticism and it seems that the Martian office phones are cut off, with support tickets also going unanswered.
The first-generation Apple Watch SE was discontinued following the release of the second-generation Apple Watch SE in 2022.
The included applications facilitate monitoring fitness activities: Heart Rate sensor Pedometer Exercise Standalone Modes: Running, Walking Companion Modes: Cycling, Hiking Sleep Samsung stated that their Gear Fit is the "world's first" wearable device with a curved Super AMOLED touch display.
Vivo BlueOS, or BlueOS also named Blue River OS, is an open-source distributed operating system developed by Vivo.
Professional printing Like its predecessors, Photos initially included a number of options for professional printing of photos, which could then optionally be turned into books or calendars and mailed to an address.
Due to limitations of the COVID-19 pandemic on certain social gatherings, the smartwatch was released via Samsung's online channels.
The Pine has a Snapdragon S4 system on a chip (SoC) by Qualcomm that has a Cortex-A5 Dual-Core ARM processor running at 1.2 GHz.
It was the major smartwatch carrying the Nokia brand, until the company sold back the health division to the co-founder of Withings in September 2018.
Other environmental groups criticized Apple's emphasis on carbon emissions without accounting for e-waste, due to the difficulty of repairing these products.
iCloud Photo Library iCloud Photo Library is heavily integrated into the app, keeping photos and videos in sync with various Apple devices designated by the user (such as Macs, iPhones, and iPads), including edits and album structures.
Business The company offers firmware, a cloud, manufacturing, service and over-the-air facilities for upgrades.
Martian Watches was a brand of smart watch founded in 2007 in the United States by SilverPlus, Inc., an American company headquartered in Irvine, California.
CNET praises the device for its smooth interface and how it displays notifications and messages in an easily viewable format.
SPOT was not Microsoft's first foray into the smartwatch business—the company previously co-developed the Timex Datalink with Timex in 1994.
However, some investigative reporting has indicated that 94% of Verra's rainforest carbon offsets were allegedly "worthless" and that the standard may worsen global warming.
It pairs with a smartphone with the Nokia Health Mate application and also relays smartphone notifications.
This decision was praised by Monique Goyens, director-general of EU consumer group BEUC, who also called Apple's claims "bogus" and scientifically inaccurate.
As a result, Pebble was forced to cancel shipments for its Pebble 2 and Pebble Time 2 smartwatches, as well as the Pebble Core device, refunding Kickstarter backers.
According to Masimo, Lamego initially declined to join Apple during a meeting between Masimo and Apple executives in 2013, but reconsidered after Masimo chief executive, Joe Kiani, appointed another employee as the company's chief technology officer.
Overview SPOT extended functionality of traditional devices to include features not originally envisaged for them; a SPOT-powered coffeemaker, for example, would be able to display information such as weather forecasts on an electronic visual display.
Customers who had been using the Aperture application, abandoned by Apple on the release of Photos, were particularly angry about loss of professional-standard functionality.
Production was ramped up in March 2015 to increase availability, several months after the release of Android Wear but ahead of the Apple Watch.
All the ceramic case color options have been removed until the launch of the Apple Watch Edition Series 5 in 2019.
SPOT relied on the .NET Micro Framework for the creation and management of embedded device firmware.
The LG G Watch R (model W110) is an Android Wear-based smartwatch announced and released by LG and Google on October 25, 2014.
He concluded that there is no "killer application" so far besides telling the time, which is the basic function of a wristwatch anyhow.
While the Ruputer was available with either 512 KB of storage (original Ruputer), 2 MB (Ruputer PRO), or 4 MB of flash memory (Ruputer PRO4), the onHand PC came only in a single version with 2 MB of storage.
The device started shipping in August 2014, and eventually became widely available through Best Buy and Amazon.
In March 2013, Apple hired former Adobe chief technology officer Kevin Lynch, reporting to Bob Mansfield, to lead the watch project, which would become the company's first major new product without input from late co-founder Steve Jobs.
The Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 (stylized as Samsung Galaxy Watch6) is a series of Wear OS-based smartwatches manufactured, developed and designed by Samsung Electronics.
Gear Live was initially available in the United States and Canada at US$199 on the Google Play Store, and from Google's Play Store in the UK for £169.
In May 2025, COROS introduced the COROS Launch Repair Program, allowing customers to replace parts for selected COROS wearables, such as the battery, dial, screen and buttons.
Analysts estimate Apple sold 18 million watches in 2017, 31 million in 2019, and 34 million in 2020.
Messages could be displayed during an alarm, and they could be downloaded to the watch or input manually through scrolling characters, activated by two forward/reverse buttons.
Software The G Watch runs Android Wear, which features a notification system based on Google Now technology that enables it to receive spoken commands from the user.
Sales Financial analysts offered early sales estimates from a few million to as many as 5 million in the first year.
Development Pre-release The concept of Pokémon Go was conceived in 2014 through a collaboration between Satoru Iwata of Nintendo and Tsunekazu Ishihara of The Pokémon Company, initially as an April Fools' Day project with Google called the Google Maps: Pokémon Challenge.
Tan alleges that this was a deliberate effort to defraud Kreyos and use its resources to create a turnkey smartwatch solution for other companies.
Sailfish OS Sailfish OS is a Linux-based operating system for various platforms, including Sailfish smartwatches.
Models The first-generation Apple Watch Ultra was unveiled September 7, 2022 alongside Apple Watch Series 8, and began shipping September 23, 2022.
The Olio watch includes several pieces of software licensed under the GNU General Public License, such as the Linux kernel and U-Boot, but Olio Devices never released the source code to any of this software, thus violating the General Public License.
On December 10, 2014, an update started to roll out, adding new features including a watch face API and changed the software to be based on Android 5.0 "Lollipop".
AsteroidOS also includes various mobile Linux middlewares originally developed for Mer and Nemo Mobile such as lipstick and MCE.
Models IBM WatchPad (2000) IBM WatchPad 1.5 (2001) See also ThinkPad laptops WorkPad handhelds References External links Official website at the Wayback Machine (archived 2002-06-09)
Pricing The Galaxy Watch 3 has a retail price of US$399 for the 41 mm and US$479 for the 45 mm option.
References External links Official website Kids smartwatches Archived 1 February 2019 at the Wayback Machine
ModeLabs acquired the license in late-2007 and marketed the first TAG Heuer branded mobile phone in late 2008.
Much of Tizen is open-source software, although the software development kit contains proprietary components owned by Samsung, and portions of the OS are licensed under the Flora License, a derivative of the Apache License 2.0 that grants a patent license only to "Tizen-certified platforms".
Microcontrollers of different architectures such as ARM (M0/3/4/7, A7/17/53, ARM9/11), x86, and RISC-V are supported by the project.
Bands that fit the smaller size class (38, 40, 41 and 42 mm (1.5, 1.6, 1.6 and 1.7 in) watches) and larger size class (42, 44, 45 and 46 mm (1.7, 1.7, 1.8 and 1.8 in) watches) are generally interchangeable within the class.
The Samsung Galaxy Watch 8 (stylized as Samsung Galaxy Watch8) is a series of Wear OS-based smartwatches developed and marketed by Samsung Electronics.
The model number indicated the maximum number of phone numbers that could be downloaded to the watch.
The Samsung Gear Fit is a fitness wristband made by Samsung Electronics, and forms part of their Samsung Gear family of smartwatch devices.
The Samsung Gear Live is an Android Wear-based smartwatch announced and released by Samsung and Google on June 25, 2014.
Applications For health tracking, people could use the ASUS ZenFit app as well as other health apps including Google Fit.
Wear OS was estimated to account for 17.3% of the smartwatch market in Q3 2021, behind Apple's 21.8%.
It used Android Wear, a modified version of Android designed specifically for smartwatches and other wearables.
Models Second generation watches were sold under names Strata (model code SW12-1) and Frame (model code SW12-2).
That December, The New York Times reported that Apple was exploring various ideas, including a "curved-glass iPod that would wrap around the wrist", which users would interact with through the Siri voice assistant, and which "could relay information back to the iPhone".
Reception The Verge praised the design, bright display and the comfort on the wrist, but disliked the inaccurate pedometer and short battery life, and said Android Wear's interface still needed work.
At the end of a session, the user's heart rate is shown alongside the number of "mindfulness minutes" completed for the day, which can also be seen in the Health and Fitness apps on a linked iPhone device.
The line features various health, fitness, and fashion related features and is integrated with Samsung's other products under the Samsung Galaxy brand.
Laptop Magazine liked the internal memory capacity, but feels that the Bluetooth tethering causes too much hassle when connecting.
It is a successor to the Wear 2100, and it includes greater power efficiency, and a separate low power core that can run basic watch functions as well as slightly more advanced functions, such as step tracking.
When the Apple Watch is paired with an iPhone, all music on that iPhone is also available to be controlled and accessed from the Apple Watch.
It can also connect to a computer so that the internal SD card can be recognized as a mass storage device for file management.
Specifications Galaxy Watch The baseline Galaxy Watch series started as the lower cost Galaxy Watch Active line.
Like its predecessor, it incorporates fitness tracking and is compatible with Windows, iOS and Android smartphones via a Bluetooth connection.
The lawsuit seeks to block the use of Masimo's patents in the Apple Watch Series 4 and 5 and to seize seven patents issued to Lamego.
Apple produces bands in a variety of materials and colors; however, third-party bands are still compatible when using Apple's design guidelines.
Its principal improvement over its predecessor is the inclusion of a sensor to monitor blood oxygen saturation.
The Series 4 can also detect falls, and can automatically contact emergency services unless the user cancels the outgoing call.
In August 2014 it was revealed that Martian was teaming up with Guess to launch a range of branded smartwatches.
Reception JR Raphael of Computerworld liked the LG G Watch's superior dimmed-mode display, comfortable band, and easy-to-use charging cradle, but did not like the uninspired design and poor outdoor visibility display compared to Samsung Gear Live.
Overview The watch features a rotating bezel user interface and an IP68 rating for water resistance up to 1.5 meters deep in 30 minutes.
It is based on the Galaxy Watch 4, with the only physical difference being the use of sapphire crystal as glass instead of the Corning Gorilla Glass DX+ used on the original Watch 4.
It was announced on August 28, 2014, as the successor to the Samsung Gear 2 and was released on November 7, 2014.
The charger has changed for the third time in the Pixel Watch series, as this model now offers a side-mounted dock, as opposed to the pin-based charging connector of the Pixel Watch 2 and 3.
Pebble SDK Pebble Technology announced that an open Pebble software development kit (SDK) would be released before shipment of the watches began.
One reviewer noted that with a weight of 108 grams, it weighs nearly as much as the Handspring Visor PDA, which is 174 g.
See also Samsung Galaxy References External links New Tizen 3.0 Update Now Available For Samsung Gear S3 Archived 2021-09-11 at the Wayback Machine
Introduced in September 2022, they are marketed towards endurance athletes and outdoor recreation, and carry a rugged form factor with a wider band, a larger, brighter display, multi-band GPS, a larger battery, water temperature sensor, and additional functionality for diving.
As of August 2025, Samsung Smart TVs run on Tizen, with OTA [Over The Air] updates rolled out as and when Samsung releases them.
Succeeding from the Apple S6, the Apple S7 is the second time utilizing the energy-efficient Thunder cores from the A13 Bionic.
Features The LG-GD910 is constructed using a waterproof, metal casing and has a curved, tempered glass face.
The Toq (pronounced “tok” as in "tick-tock") was a smartwatch developed by Qualcomm which was released in limited quantities as a proof of concept to OEMs in December 2013.
The device is supplied with two interchangeable straps, including a leather strap with a magnetic clasp.
Pebble Technology, Corp announced on its developer site that it is possible to create accessory ports on watchbands, otherwise known as "smartstraps".
The Samsung Gear S3 is a Tizen-based circular smartwatch manufactured, developed and designed by Samsung Electronics.
In 2014, Metawatch announced Meta M1, a premium smartwatch developed in collaboration with Frank Nuovo.
On September 20, 2023, the European Union announced that it would ban most uses of the term "carbon neutral" in advertising by 2026, including claims that are based on carbon offsets, to address greenwashing and misleading advertising.
The update replaces the Android-based operating system of the device with the Tizen-based operating system of its successor, the Samsung Gear 2.
Additional features include a new Apple S6 utilizing the energy-efficient Thunder cores from the A13 Bionic that is up to 20% faster than the Apple S4 and Apple S5, a 2.5× brighter always-on display, and an always-on altimeter.
The Pixel Watch's launch allowed Google to obtain 8 percent of the wearable market share, jumping 16 percent from fourth place to second place, behind Apple.
Google also announced a partnership with Samsung Electronics, who is collaborating with Google to unify its Tizen-based smartwatch platform with Wear OS, and has committed to using Wear OS on its future smartwatch products.
In the Carbon Profiling Model these emissions are measured as Embodied Carbon Efficiency (ECE), measured as kg of CO2/m2/year.
In this scenario, potential fuel suppliers wait for shipowners to begin using low-carbon fuels before they invest in infrastructure to supply it, and shipowners wait for the infrastructure to be put in place before investing in ships that can use it.
Failure to commission, keep or provide an updated TM44 inspection report when required by an enforcement authority could lead to a fine of £300 per unit.
They are designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by essentially increasing the price of fossil fuels.
The name "TM44" refers to the technical memorandum TM44, which provides guidelines for these inspections.
The chairman of the committee, Peter Dunne, described report as a 'middle road' through 'complex and contentious' material.
The European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) remains the largest carbon market based on value, accounting for approximately 87% of the global market size in 2023.
Some of the initiatives to date include: Joining US volunteers at the Annual Conference/Lobbying in Washington, D.C., to meeting with Members of Congress.
The report suggested four strategies to be concurrently implemented: Accelerate clean electricity access.
Carbon Bank and Village Development Project In 2009 the Carbon Bank and Village Development Project sponsored by PATT was awarded a 2009 United Nations-backed SEED Award.
2016 acatech study A 2016 acatech-lead study focused on "flexibility technologies" used to balance the fluctuations inherent in power generation from wind and photovoltaics.
Prior to the scuttling of the agreement by the second Donald Trump administration, the agreement was supported by the leading shipping industry lobby, most states, including the European Union, Japan, China, Britain and the United States.
Research based on sample sets between 2004 and 2011 shows that Solar RECs purchased and retired voluntarily in the United States (i.e., not for compliance with a Renewable Portfolio Standard) do not lead to any significant additional renewable energy investment or generation.
Architecture for REDD+ Transactions (ART) is a carbon-crediting programme for jurisdictional and national REDD+ activities.
While these vehicles remained legal to drive in both regions, consumer groups and governments sought to ensure that Volkswagen had compensated affected owners, as it had been required to do in the United States.
Readiness activities may be supported through a delivery-partner model, in which partner institutions assist countries in implementing readiness work under the facility’s operational and reporting arrangements.
The ECO scheme works by placing an obligation on large and medium energy suppliers in England, Scotland and Wales to achieve a minimum level of energy bill savings in homes through energy efficiency installations.
Official registration indicates that a program has approved the project and that the project is eligible to start generating carbon offset credits once it starts.
Cap and Share advocates argue that it is impossible to guarantee that emissions reduction targets will be reached by using a purely price-based mechanism for emissions reduction.
At the same time, carbon credits have been seen as enabling large companies to pollute the environment at the expense of local communities.
Steven Chu has said that "It is absolutely worthwhile to invest in carbon capture and storage", noting that even if the U.S.
They can purchase emission permits, be allocated quotas (such as European Union Allowances (EUA)) or buy carbon credits.
Africa has large reserves of many of these so-called "green minerals, such as bauxite, cobalt, copper, chromium, manganese and graphite.
The stay was deemed dissolved as of April 11, 2022, and the RGGI rulemaking was finally published in the Pennsylvania Bulletin on April 23, 2022.
Description Carbon markets are carbon pricing mechanisms enabling governments and non-state actors to trade greenhouse gas emission credits.
History On September 25, 2008, Tianjin Climate Exchange, co-established by CNPC Assets Management Co., Ltd.
These have frames with relaxed geometry, protecting the rider from shocks of the road and easing steering at low speeds.
In the European Union, 59% of companies that have made investments in both basic and advanced technologies have also invested in energy efficiency measures, compared to only 50% of US firms in the same category.
Cost implications for new coal-fired power plants Newly built coal-fired power plants can be made to immediately use gasification of the coal prior to combustion.
Benefits for the community Setting aside such areas fits with the long-term vision of the communities were hiza'iti lands are set aside for use by the future generations.
Efforts have been made under the G20 to remove fossil fuel subsidies, but they were not successful once again at the recent G20 meeting in Seoul.
By the end of 2011, 26% of South Australia's electricity generation derived from wind power, edging out coal-fired power for the first time.
Shane Ardern, a National Party MP, drove a tractor up the steps of Parliament as part of a protest against the tax.
In January 2016, The Climate Mobilization sponsored a "Climate Emergency Caucus" in Des Moines before the Iowa caucuses, which simulated the state's 2016 Democratic presidential primary caucus.
See also New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme Climate change in New Zealand Energy in New Zealand List of climate change initiatives == References ==
Long-term CER or lCER is a CER issued for an afforestation or reforestation project activity which expires at the end of its crediting period.
The periphery, which encapsulates the residential core, is composed of services and facilities such as supermarkets and gyms.
Further stress of the knee can be relieved by changing seat heights and pedal position to improve the rehabilitation.
These curves have been used for various public and private actors either to assess carbon policies or through the use of a carbon market analysis tool.
Indirectly, through efficient, sustainable use of resources and faster transport of goods and people, car-free cities aim to improve quality of life for residents.
“Embodied carbon refers to the carbon footprint associated with building materials, from cradle to grave," and can be quantified as a part of environmental impact using life-cycle assessment (LCA).
Fifty organisations including Attac Europe, Friends of the Earth International, Global Justice Now, Greenpeace, and the Indigenous Environmental Network, among others, signed a petition against ICAO measures.
In 2012, South Pole acquired a major stake in Australian carbon farming project developer and offset retailer, Sydney-based Climate Friendly.
On 22 April 2021, along with an open letter to Grant Shapps with fifteen signatures, the Railway Industry Association published their report "Why Rail Electrification".
Jeff Huang is assistant chairman of Tianjin Climate Exchange and vice-president of Chicago Climate Exchange.
Defeat devices were built into many vehicles by manufacturers, but aftermarket parts or software, such as modified exhausts and chip tuning products and services, are considered defeat devices if they inhibit or bypass a vehicle's emissions controls.
These criteria include, for instance, remoteness, dependency on transport, connectivity to main markets, food security, and disaster response.
The UNFCCC's International Transaction Log has already validated and transferred CERs into the accounts of some national climate registries, although European operators are waiting for the European Commission to facilitate the transfer of their units into the registries of their Member States.
The One-Tonne Challenge was a challenge presented by the Government of Canada in March 2004 for Canadians to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by one tonne each year.
However, with the election of Stephen Harper's Conservative Government in 2006, the One Tonne Challenge was scrapped.
To contribute to the ongoing effort for rehabilitation, they initiated development projects that addressed in the first place land conservation, ecosystem services, and livelihood.
Subsequent inspections must be conducted by an accredited energy assessor within five years of the previous inspection.
IPCC scenarios "generally indicate that growth in renewable energy will be widespread around the world".
The stringency of the cap and expected amount of emission reductions, however, will remain unchanged.
The German government also explained its public participation process at the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 21) on 9 December 2015.
Element Markets also develops renewable energy and greenhouse gas emission reduction (carbon offset) projects.
Article 6 of the Paris Agreement includes three mechanisms for "voluntary cooperation" between countries toward climate goals, including carbon credit markets.
Offsets Offset credits represent a project that verifiably reduces at least one metric ton of greenhouse gases in Washington state.
Physical soil and water conservation has been implemented to enhance infiltration, and vegetation growth.
Climate Defiance is a climate movement organization in the United States which uses direct action protests to demand stronger climate change mitigation policies.
According to varying calculation methods of business as usual scenarios, this can indicate 233.1 million tCO2e or more.
Marco Springmann, from the Oxford University's Oxford Martin Programme on the Future of Food also proposed a tax on meat and dairy.
Although not the same as electrification, the organisation and others suggest modal shift away from roads to an electrified railway, will also help the climate.
Personal Carbon Allowances (PCAs) – described in the book "How we can save the planet" by Mayer Hillman and Tina Fawcett.
Clean air reference website BAAQMD phone numbers – including 800-EXHAUST (800-394-2878) to report auto exhaust pollution
History The British Standards Institution announced the development of the PAS 2060 Standard for Carbon Neutrality in October 2009 with the objective of increasing transparency of carbon neutrality claims by providing a common definition and recognized method of achieving carbon neutral status.
On 28 June 28 2019, the ONCA issued its advisory opinion, finding the law constitutionally valid (Justice Huscroft dissenting).
The following chart outlines the actual CER realized to date: Additionally, the project design report states Onyx SASA expects to revegetate and reforest the land; upon fulfillment, 150,000 trees will be planted around the landfill.
Modeling Climate Responses: Simulating atmospheric CO2 levels, temperature increases, sea level rise and other changes.
See also Emissions trading Flexible mechanisms Assigned amount units Certified Emission Reduction Emission Reduction Unit == References ==
Ahead of its accession to the EU, Croatia joined the ETS at the start of Phase III on 1 January 2013.
The London Accord is a collaboration between investment banks, research houses, academics and NGOs to produce free research on climate change for financial investors.
The latter also highlights how the tax might be administered - including on the import of frozen carcasses.
The government legislated to ensure that by 2016 electricity retailers in Victoria purchase 10 per cent of their energy from renewables.
The rate of electrification in Britain is often compared to overseas and many acknowledge it is a geopolitical and resource issue as petroleum is a finite resource.
The policy will use Brazil's 2005 emission rate as the business as usual base line for comparison of future emissions.
The RGGI program is currently in its fifth three-year compliance period, which began January 1, 2021.
Unlike most other governments, British Columbia's electricity portfolio largely consists of hydroelectric power, and its energy costs, even with the tax, are lower than in most countries.
The use of carbon registry helps prevent double counting and double issuance while ensuring complete transparency.
It expresses how much an organization is expending to either reduce carbon emissions internally (abatement) or offsetting externally (carbon offset).
The initiative would have raised taxes on the wealthy to fund wildfire management and electric vehicle (and ZEV) incentives and infrastructure.
The funding for the refund comes from the utility providers who pay a carbon tax for polluting the air, and the refund is the dividend portion of the carbon fee and dividend program created by the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006.
Current or past sponsors include Bank of America Merrill Lynch, BHP Billiton, Energy Systems Catapult, CO2 Sciences, the European Climate Foundation, the Grantham Foundation and the UN Foundation.
Gardeners who want to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions can help themselves to eat less meat and dairy produce by growing nut trees which are a good source of tasty, protein-rich food, including walnuts which are an excellent source of the omega-3 fatty acid alpha-linolenic acid.
History The Alliance was launched by Canada and the UK at the COP23 climate summit in November 2017.
In addition to finding a new method for permanent carbon dioxide storage, another objective of the project was to train scientists.
Other issuers of Boya include the University of Vermont and in Australia, primary schools, non-profit organisations, and a neighbourhood association.
References External links California Climate Credit at the California Public Utilities Commission California Climate Credit at the California Air Resources Board
Pilot H24U Like the Kahirós Project, the H24U pilot is a three-year green hydrogen initiative that aims to decarbonize heavy cargo transportation in Uruguay, a sector that currently accounts for 28% of the country's total energy demand.
(2022), involving over 40,000 respondents across 20 countries, found that a global system of tradable emissions quotas was among the most widely supported climate measures, with support rates above 70% in each country surveyed.
Simpson Grierson considered that the key findings of the review were that: the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report represents a consensus on scientific evidence, and should underpin New Zealand's policy.
The CCPs include a principle on sustainable development benefits and safeguards, and ICVCM governance materials describe an Indigenous Peoples and Local Communities Committee as part of its committee structure.
Fiat Chrysler produced over 100,000 model year 2014 through 2016 Ram 1500 and Jeep Grand Cherokee vehicles for sale in the United States with EcoDiesel engines in which the US EPA and the California Air Resources Board alleged had a defeat device.
say rather a peninsula!" The Supreme Court of Canada's Revisitation of the National Concern Doctrine".
In an APCR auction, prices are fixes at Tier 1 (lower) and Tier 2 (higher) prices, and there are a set number of allowances up for auction in each tier.
Industry consequences Renault believes that diesel cars would become significantly more expensive when re-engineered to comply with new emissions regulations as a result of the Volkswagen disclosures, to the point that diesel cars may not be competitive.
Documentation and verification PAS 2060 requires a standard-compliant declaration of achievement of neutrality through a set of Qualifying Explanatory Statements and public disclosure of all the documentation that supports the carbon neutrality claim.
Per capita emissions (in tonnes of CO2-eq, excluding LUCF) averaged 2.8 tonnes for the 122 non-Annex I Parties.
Oversight issues Several certification standards exist, with different ways of measuring emissions baseline, reductions, additionality, and other key criteria.
The province of Alberta, led by then-Premier Jason Kenney, referred its own reference question to the Court of Appeal of Alberta on June 20, 2019.
(but) sometimes if you feel that something is totally unacceptable you have to react despite business, despite interests.
I have been victimized by these lies." On June 4, 2009, Obama delivered a speech at Cairo University titled "A New Beginning".
In addressing real-life situations, Francis often appealed directly to his experience, in continuity with his synodal way, which shows a renewed emphasis on listening and dialogue.
Tosaphists The Tosaphist Rabbeinu Tam wrote that Peter was "a devout and learned Jew who dedicated his life to guiding gentiles along the proper path".
While in Washington, DC, he attended Vermont Avenue Christian Church, which is now National City Christian Church.
There are certain areas of feeling and reality—or unreality or innermost yearning, whatever you want to call it—which are notably inaccessible to words.
Strangelove suggested "the earth were being cleansed of an infection", to which Kubrick responded: Good God, no.
A number of critics draw the parallel between religious beliefs and Freud's theories, that neither can be scientifically proven, but only experienced subjectively.
The emperor became a great patron of the Church and set a precedent for the position of the Christian emperor within the Church and raised the notions of orthodoxy, Christendom, ecumenical councils, and the state church of the Roman Empire declared by edict in 380.
By term Affiliation totals See also Religious affiliations of presidents of the United States Religious affiliation in the United States House of Representatives Religious affiliation in the United States Senate Footnotes References Adherents.com Religious Affiliation of U.S.
In 1985, minister Donald Wildmon called her "anti-Christian" and "antifamily" for wearing crucifixes as jewelry.
On Easter Day 2026 (April 5), Trump sparked significant controversy by using the phrase "Praise be to Allah" in his expletive-laden post threatening Iran, which was interpreted by critics as mocking Islam or weaponizing religious language during conflicts.
Dawkins's contribution was as follows: Stop toadying to Muslims and other "faith communities" as part of a general abolition of all religious privilege.
Hence, he argued that the reformers "had to leave them in order that we might come to Christ." The ministers of the Church are described from a passage from Ephesians, and they consisted of apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and doctors.
Reflecting on the deep meaning of the Communion bread, he draws on Paul's epistles that point to oneness as Christ's body, where all suffer together and are honored together (1 Cor 12:26).
Others, sometimes termed Judaizers, felt that Gentile Christians needed to fully comply with the Mosaic Law.
According to Sherrill, in the interview he denied being an agnostic and stated that he believed there is only one Creator.
Following his return to Twitter in April 2018, West tweeted "I love the way Candace Owens thinks." The tweet was met with controversy among some of West's fans.
At that conference, Gera spoke on "The Meaning of the Christian Message in the Midst of Poverty and Oppression".
I find it very exciting to have a semi-logical belief that there's a great deal to the universe we don't understand, and that there is an intelligence of an incredible magnitude outside the Earth.
There have been no Adventist, Anabaptist, Eastern Orthodox, Assyrian Church of the East, Oriental Orthodox, Lutheran, Latter Day Saint, or Pentecostal presidents.
Hitler promised that the institutions of the Weimar Republic and churches would be protected, and said his government saw the churches as "the most important factors for upholding our nationhood".
Burke's view that religion is the source of morality led him to view its absence as a perilous possibility.
Farrakhan continued advocating the "racial separatism" of Elijah Muhammad, and reportedly considered Wallace "a soft minded heretic." Ali decided to follow the teachings of Wallace Muhammad.
However, these views are not standard Calvinistic interpretations, but his views on what happens after the resurrection are orthodox Calvinistic doctrine: Christ, during the resurrection, would raise man up higher than the state he was in before the fall.
The only way to deal with false prophets was to deal with the Turkish people's illiteracy and prejudice.
Christian religion and ethics are the primary topic of the sermons with emphasis on marriage, repentance, hardening the heart, charity, pride, wisdom, and compassion.
Gera had also been a teacher of Bergoglio who, as Archbishop of Buenos Aires, showed his esteem for Gera by allowing him to be buried in the crypt of the cathedral.
All that's left is to prove that in nature there is no frontier between the organic and the inorganic." Atheism The National Socialist movement was not formally atheist, and generally allowed religious observance.
"Left" refers to the Historical Left (referred to also as Democrats) of Agostino Depretis and Francesco Crispi.
Notes References Bate, Walter Jackson (1977), Samuel Johnson, New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, ISBN 0-15-179260-7.
In Christian theology, this concept is often referred to as The Second Coming of Jesus Christ and the establishment of Paradise by The Kingdom of God on Earth.
In particular, it was debated as to whether Gentile converts needed to be circumcised or observe the Judean dietary laws.
The utterance caused outrage, shock, and disdain from Jewish leaders and citizens in the United States.
The honeymoon, an Anatolian tour, was a chance to show his wife's unveiled face as a role model for modern Turkish women.
He sharply condemned the confiscation of Church property by the revolutionaries and claimed that their nonreligious views were "against, not only our reason, but our instincts".
Rather, the Finnish School asserts that Luther's doctrine of salvation was similar to that of Eastern Orthodoxy, theosis (divinization).
Nevertheless, his critics often wished that he would embrace what has been called a progressive agenda that some hoped would evolve as a result of the council.
Encouraged by Rome, Catholic lay people began to participate again in pilgrimages, spiritual retreats, baptisms and confessions and Catholic associations of all kinds.
Martin Luther, where both he and his followers wanted to liken him and his role to that of the European reformer.
Religious Freedom and Tolerance Jefferson envisioned an America that would be tolerant of people of various religious backgrounds, and that civil rights should not be limited by one's religious beliefs.
His formal conversion in 312 is almost universally acknowledged among historians, despite that it was claimed he was baptized only on his deathbed by the Arian bishop Eusebius of Nicomedia in 337; the real reasons behind it remain unknown and are debated also.
Though the phenomenon goes beyond Madonna, she received solid reviews discussing her religious forays with an ambiguous impact in popular culture across decades.
In this way we may rest assured that we shall never arrive at conclusions opposed to any truth, either physical or moral, from whatever source that truth may be derived." For these men, science could not be out of harmony with religion, and in a sense it was religion.
The various editions of that work span nearly his entire career as a reformer, and the successive revisions of the book show that his theology changed very little from his youth to his death.
Fortescue, also writing in the Catholic Encyclopedia, claimed that "the real distinction between God's essence and operation remains one more principle, though it is rarely insisted on now, in which the Orthodox differ from Catholics".
Rabbeinu Tam also taught that Peter was the author of the Shabbat and feast-day prayer Nishmat, and this was a popularly held belief through the Middle Ages.
State banks were more responsive to state governments and invested heavily in land development, land speculation, and state public works projects.
The great number of vocations led Pius to issue several admonitions to Bishops, to weed out candidates with moral weaknesses.
Gianotti, who was at Ali's bedside during his last days and ensured that his funeral was in accordance with Islamic rites and rituals.
A series of letters ensued between the two but they were unable to resolve their differences amicably.
Yet it is also very important to note that religion is a link between Allah and the individual believer.
Current United States representatives The following list reports the religious affiliation of the members of the United States House of Representatives in the 119th Congress.
He accepted only two sacraments as valid under the new covenant: baptism and the Lord's Supper (in opposition to the Catholic acceptance of seven sacraments).
Life Catholic upbringing Mozart's parents (Leopold Mozart and Anna Maria Mozart) were Catholics and raised their children religiously, insisting upon strict obedience to the requirements of the Church.
Atatürk's funeral called forth both sorrow and pride in Turkey, and seventeen countries sent special representatives, while nine contributed with armed detachments to the cortège.
They furnish the basis of the struggle for daily bread, create weapons and implements for it, and only the outward form is gradually adapted to Japanese character.
Leopold extended another important element of Catholic belief—the existence of earthly miracles as signs from God—to the case of his son, whose abilities he considered to have a divine origin.
He embraced the Hare Krishna tradition and, in the summer of 1969, produced the single "Hare Krishna Mantra", performed by the devotees of the London Radha Krishna Temple.
intervention early on, being happy that the Afghans were getting aid from all over the world to battle the Soviets, his view of the U.S.
(the prophet said about the woman who committed adultery: "She repented in such a way sufficient to bring forgiveness to a custom collector!!").
In addition to maintaining that the strikes were not directed against women and children and asserting that the primary targets of the 9/11 attacks were the symbols of American "economic and military power", Bin Laden stated: "This is a significant issue in Islamic jurisprudence.
The book was based on a series of lectures given by Thomas in 1848 and consists of three parts, The Rudiments Of The World, The Things Of The Kingdom Of God And Of Jesus Christ and The Kingdoms Of The World In Their Relation To The Kingdom Of God.
Opinion polls of American Jews have found that a slight majority regard Trump as antisemitic and a large majority disapprove of his antisemitism policies.
According to Jonathan Sozek:"Salafism can be understood as an umbrella term under which a movement like Wahhabism might be placed.
These authors are more forceful in their claims than Eusebius, as demonstrated by their use of primus, or "first", as in "first Christian emperor", when referring to Philip.
In opposition to this teaching, Barlaam held that they were created effects, because no part of God whatsoever could be directly perceived by humans.
There was also strong opposition which developed on several fronts within the Church, some considering Thomism simply outdated.
Dawkins and Sokal argued that sex is an "objective biological reality" that "is determined at conception and is then observed at birth," rather than assigned by a medical professional.
"Newton's Arian Epistemology and the Cosmogony of Paradise Lost." ELH: English Literary History 86.1 (2019): 77-106 online.
troops in Saudi Arabia; bin Laden loathed their presence and wanted them removed in a "rain of bullets".
Unitarianism and nontrinitarianism Four presidents were affiliated with Unitarian churches and a fifth (Thomas Jefferson) was an exponent of ideas now commonly associated with Unitarianism.
During his second administration, on January 29, 2025, Trump signed Executive Order 14188, "Additional Measures to Combat Anti-Semitism", which focuses on antisemitism in educational settings, especially in higher education.
The Down's Syndrome Association issued a response by saying that "At the Down's syndrome Association, we do not believe Down's syndrome in itself should be a reason for termination, however, we realize that families must make their own choice." Dawkins later apologized.
In Ottoman military ranks, Pasha was a common title given to all ranks at and above Mirliva, and he was from then on addressed as "Mustafa Kemal Pasha" (Turkish: Paşa).
You have good genes in Minnesota." Many cited these remarks as eugenic and related them to Nazism during World War II.
However, Catholicism is the denomination that has provided the most prime ministers, as all 11 Catholic prime ministers have been Roman Rite Catholics, while the Protestant ones have belonged to no less than five denominations.
For Calvin, the whole course of Christ's obedience to the Father removed the discord between humanity and God.
Thomism had lost its old role as leading theology and Leo attempted to re-establish it "for the protection of faith, welfare of society and the advancement of science".
That this was no mere rhetorical flourish on his part, designed for public consumption, is apparent from his constant allusions to Providence in his personal letters.
The Edict of Milan did, however, raise the stock of Christianity within the empire and reaffirmed the importance of religious worship to the welfare of the state.
Rabbi Yisrael (Israel) Deri, caretaker of Isaac Luria's tomb (founder of Kabbalah), commented "this kind of woman wreaks an enormous sin upon the Kabbalah".
Spirituality John Paul II spoke often about prayer and devotion to God, such devotion deeply rooted in the Mystery of the Blessed Trinity.
The Qur'an also criticized the Jews for believing that Ezra is the Son of God, a claim unattested either in Jewish or other extra-Qur'anic sources.
The dispute over Hesychasm came before a synod held at Constantinople in May 1341 and presided over by the emperor Andronicus III.
Madonna's religious views, and others interpretations Besides her spiritual seeking, Madonna has made several statements about religion, and specific denominations.
Your blood has been spilt in Palestine and Iraq, and the horrific image of the massacre in Qana in Lebanon are still fresh in people's minds.
Those conferences which have been experiencing tension with the Vatican over revised translations, like the French-speaking and German-speaking, now have much more breathing room in deciding what is best for translating liturgical texts.
Historically, Western Christianity has tended to reject the essence–energies distinction, characterizing it as a heretical introduction of an unacceptable division in the Trinity and suggestive of polytheism.
The reason was books were too removed from actual reality as these were written by people, interpreted by others, rewritten by people, obscured by others, etc.
The controversy started at an atheist convention in Dublin, where Rebecca Watson spoke about feminism and the atheist movement.
The emperor ensured that God was properly worshiped in his empire; what proper worship (orthodoxy) and doctrines and dogma consisted of was for the Church to determine.
According to Italian law enforcement, by the time of the habemus papam announcement, there were up to 150,000 in the square.
Satan, in order to get revenge against God, tempts Eve into eating of the forbidden fruit of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil, and Adam, out of love, joins with her in the disobedience so she will not be blamed alone.
Elpis Israel - An Exposition of the Kingdom of God (commonly called Elpis Israel) is a theological book written by John Thomas, founder of the Christadelphians, and published in 1849.
He often cited the Church Fathers in order to defend the reformed cause against the charge that the reformers were creating new theology.
Palamas expressed theoria as an experience of God as it happens to the whole person (soul or nous), not just the mind or body, in contrast to an experience of God that is drawn from memory, the mind, or in time.
Thus his relationship in public to Christianity – indeed his relationship to religion in general – was opportunistic.
The second edition, published in 1539, was three times as long because he added chapters on subjects that appear in Melanchthon's Loci Communes.
Last rites There is conflicting evidence concerning whether Mozart received last rites of the Catholic Church on his death bed.
Several popular diet patterns prohibit the inclusion of some categories of animal products and may also limit the conditions of when other animal products may be permitted.
Ultimately, the California hide trade set an important precedent which would impact the way the people looked at the West for decades to come.
Salo or slanina is a European food consisting of salt-cured slabs of pork subcutaneous fat with or without skin and with or without layers of meat.
Aspartic acid, which can make up up to 50% of shell framework proteins, is most abundant in calcitic layers, and also heavily present in aragonitic layers.
Ingredients A sausage consists of meat cut into pieces or ground, mixed with other ingredients, and filled into a casing.
This list of egg topics is not intended to be complete, but it spans the vast majority of related articles.
The membrane can also show the pattern of the animal's vein network called the veining of the sheet.
It was originally applied to synthetic fibers to reduce transparency, slipperiness and increase warmth, absorbency and makes the yarn more opaque.
It may have even evolved there, as Maine at that time would have been covered in glaciers, although the oldest known specimen only dates back to around 5,000 years; this could be due to the rising sea levels—older sea mink remains may be submerged underwater.
In 1999, Worthington Foods was acquired by Kellogg's and then, in 2015, by the Atlantic Natural Foods Company, without the Morning Star brand.
When suet is made from scratch, the maker can pack it into the crevices of pine cones to make a natural feeder.
They can drink as much as 30 imperial gallons (140 litres) at a time but this is stored in the animal's bloodstream, not, as popularly believed, in its humps.
Among some tribes, adults wore a loincloth-like pubic covering, which also hung from the waist belt.
The portions are cubed and then seasoned, cured, rested, ground and finally placed into the desired vessel.
It is very expensive; a high quality knitted scarf can cost more than $300 U.S., but will last over 20 years with good care.
See also Cephalopod ink References External links Media related to Sepia (color) at Wikimedia Commons
"A review of quantitative microbial risk assessment in the management of Escherichia coli O157:H7 on beef." Meat Science 74.1 (2006): 76–88.
The sea cow's blubber was 8–10 cm (3–4 in) thick, another adaptation to the frigid climate of the Bering Sea.
Matheny became interested in cultured meat after researching infectious diseases (HIV prevention) in India for a master's degree in public health.
Camels have a series of physiological adaptations that allow them to withstand long periods of time without any external source of water.
Criticism There have been multiple occurrences of the producer code being forged: a common strategy is to have multiple barns on the same farm, with some having caged hen production and others with organic production.
He found success with the Kenya Wildlife Service, which in 1997 commissioned his paper for special events.
The East Slavic, Hungarian and Romanian variety may also be cured with paprika or other seasonings added, whereas the South and West Slavic version is often smoked.
In 2021 a consumer lawsuit brought by PETA and a few individual plaintiffs alleged that Vital Farms misled customers to believe its hens were treated more ethically than in reality.
The World Cancer Research Fund International guidelines on cancer prevention recommend avoiding all processed meats.
American trade initially began with sailors from New England, who found an interest in the California otter and seal skins industry which diminished in prominence rapidly after the beginning of the nineteenth century.
The Oomingmak Musk Ox Producer's Cooperative was formed in the late 1960s by indigenous women on Nunivak Island, with the help of Dr.
In Britain, starting in the Tudor period, dog-powered turnspits were used; the dog ran in a treadmill linked to the spit by belts and pulleys.
Ant egg soup is a traditional dish of Laos, but popularity of the dish is waning in the younger generations.
This finding suggests that DNA methylation in honey bees allows the expression of epigenetic information to be differentially altered by nutritional input.
Its primary structure in humans is: NH2-His-Ser-Gln-Gly-Thr-Phe-Thr-Ser-Asp-Tyr-Ser-Lys-Tyr-Leu-Asp-Ser-Arg-Arg-Ala-Gln-Asp-Phe-Val-Gln-Trp-Leu-Met-Asn-Thr-COOH (HSQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNT).
A hunter who manages to extract the horn will place it in a silver casket of vermilion powder, which is thought to give the object sustenance.
However, the First Book of Kings states that it was absent earlier than Jeremiah, during Solomon's reign in the tenth century B.C.
However, proteolytic bacteria are able to dissolve or break down the connective tissue and fibers of the meat and enter the inside.
O'Hayer built the company with 20 hens in a 27-acre farm based on the philosophy of conscious capitalism.
The interior of a cut of meat will still increase in temperature by 3–5 °C (5–9 °F) after it is removed from an oven or other heat source as the hot exterior continues to warm the comparatively cooler interior (indeed it can increase by more, depending on factors such as a high ambient temperature).
This phase can either subside or progress into a "late-phase reaction," which can substantially prolong the symptoms of a response and result in more tissue damage.
It was a loosely woven, soft, double faced twill weave construction that was primarily used for coats and overcoats.
But it must always have been much easier to obtain in regions without populations of elephants, walrus or other sources of ivory.
For example, the FAO (2002) figure for Denmark, which has one of the highest meat export rates compared to its population, was 145.9 kg (322 lb) (highest in the world).
Other components identified in eggshell membranes are hyaluronic acid, sialic acid, desmosine, isodesmosine, ovotransferrin, lysyl oxidase, lysozyme, and β-N-acetylglucosaminidase.
The final investigation notice from 2023 advises that "people who are pregnant, aged 65 or older, or have a weakened immune system" reheat deli products to the aforementioned temperature in order to "kill any germs", even when there is no ongoing outbreak.
The trays of meat raffled vary in content: a barbecue style mix of steaks, lamb chops, sausages, etc.
McLagan's explanation for the belief that fat is unhealthy comes from Ancel Keys's studies in the 1940s, which linked animal fat to heart disease—studies which have since been challenged by other studies which do not link the two.
This meat has a dark hide and the hairs of the skin remains stuck to the fat even if it is dipped in boiling water.
Initially, it was considered that occasional hunters were the cause, but investigations uncovered evidence that large commercial organizations were dealing in poaching and smuggling.
134 - Beef Bones - This item consists of any one or combination of shank, femur, or humerus bones sawed into sections of lengths as specified by the purchaser.
A buffalo coat is a heavy winter garment made from the bison, which also commonly known as the "buffalo" (though not closely related to African or Asian buffaloes).
Other pearls from giant clams are known to exist, but this is a particularly large one, weighing 14 lb (6.4 kg).
The Dave TV comedy show Compete for the Meat, hosted by Al Murray, is loosely based on the concept of a meat raffle.
The famous Russian writer Leo Tolstoy in A Confession spoke of running away from his troubled life by drinking kumis.
Smoke-jacks are sometimes moved by means of spiral flyers coiling about a vertical axle; and at other times by a vertical wheel with sails like the float-boards of a mill: but the above is the more customary construction.
For the wax-making bees to secrete wax, the ambient temperature in the hive must be 33 to 36 °C (91 to 97 °F).
Various types of salted meat are staples of the diets of people in North Africa, Southern China, Scandinavia, coastal Russia, and in the Arctic.
Net animal losses are the difference between the calories in human-edible crops fed to animals and the calories returned in meat, dairy and fish.
It is made from fresh meat (often pork) and fat, and is flavoured with spices, salt, and pepper, and traditionally stuffed into natural gut casings.
Definition In the context of nutritional science, red meat is defined as meat obtained from mammals, including beef, pork, lamb, mutton, veal, venison, and goat.
Caul fat, also known as lace fat, omentum, crépine or fat netting, is the greater omentum used as offal: the lace-like, fatty membrane which surrounds the internal organs of some animals, such as cows, sheep, and pigs.
However, many non-Inuit object to the use of seal skin, fur and pelts, and it is illegal to hunt seals in many countries, particularly young seals.
Today many "keshi" pearls are intentional, with post-harvest shells returned to the water to regenerate a pearl in the existing pearl sac.
Under visual assessment by independent panelists, the USDA marbling score of the powder-treated meat increased by two levels.
White individuals were reserved for dignitaries, while those of other colors were shared with commoners (including for the purpose of bride prices).
For example, the male blue wildebeest reams the bark and branches of trees to impress the female and lure her into his territory.
They were also ritually slaughtered by the Mapuche, as attested by various 16th century Spanish records.
A bone folder, bonefolder, or folding bone is a dull-edged hand tool used to fold and crease material in crafts such as bookbinding, cardmaking, origami, and other paper crafts that require a sharp crease or fold.
For birds other than chicken, ingredient labels must include the name of the bird source ("duck egg," for example).
The names of articles were linked from current articles, but those article names might be changed, at a later time.
Alaska In Alaska, big game roadkill (notably moose and caribou) are considered state property; the operator of the vehicle that killed the animal must call a state trooper or the division of fish and wildlife protection to report the kill.
Uses All spiders produce silks, and a single spider can produce up to seven different types of silk for different uses.
It recommends an internal temperature of at least 145 °F (63 °C) for cuts of beef, veal, and lamb in order to prevent foodborne illness, and warns that color and texture indicators are not reliable.
In fact, the most notable characteristic of the skull was its size, in that it was clearly larger than that of other mink species, having a wide rostrum, large nostril openings, large antorbital foramina (openings in the skull in front of the eye socket), and large teeth.
See also Organic certification – organic products must bear a registration number that allows to trace back the ingredients.
In the Mishnah, manna is treated as a natural but unique substance, "created during the twilight of the sixth day of Creation", and ensured to be clean, before it arrives, by the sweeping of the ground by a northern wind and subsequent rains.
North America North American breakfast or country sausage is made from uncooked ground pork, breadcrumbs and salt mixed with pepper, sage, and other spices.
In the Philippines, kwek-kwek is a popular street-food delicacy, which consists of soft-boiled quail eggs dipped in orange-colored batter before being skewered and deep-fried.
This can include animal feet, livers, lungs, heads, spleens, etc or an admixture in the form of meat and bone meal.
According to healers and witch doctors in Nepal, a jackal horn can be used to win in gambling bouts, and ward off evil spirits.
Snake soup or stew (Chinese: 蛇羹; pinyin: shé gēng; Jyutping: se4 gang1) is a popular Cantonese delicacy and health supplement in Hong Kong, which contains the meats of at least two types of snakes as the main ingredients.
Controversy In 2011, Masaki Kamakura published a study claiming that MRJP1 controls division of labour (called polyethism).
See also Salt pork Szalonna, Hungarian salt pork Lardo, Italian salt pork Charcuterie Notes References Further reading Viktoriya Popovych, There Is No Ukraine Without Salo: An Analysis of the Cultural and Social Significance of Salo in Ukraine, Compass, 2023, vol 3, issue 1, pp.
Included in Fat are instructions for fat rendering, recipes for its use, and a description of the health benefits of eating animal fat.
The "horns" of a pronghorn (which is not a cervid but a antilocaprid) meet some of the criteria of antlers, but are not considered true antlers because they contain keratin.
See also The Meat Buyer's Guide, North American Meat Processors Association (NAMP), listing all IMPS cuts by number, with color photos.
Sepia is a reddish-brown color, named after the rich brown pigment derived from the ink sac of the common cuttlefish Sepia.
Zoologists note that the conspicuous coloration, the presence of a powerful toxin, and the adults' aggregating behaviour in full view of any predators strongly suggest aposematism among the blistering meloid beetles.
In biology, a lerp is a structure of crystallized honeydew produced by larvae of psyllid bugs as a protective cover.
The 1970s saw American diets adopting lower amounts of animal fat (though without an improvement in overall health), resulting in an increased intake of overall fat, with vegetable fats substituted for animal fats, leading to higher polyunsaturated fat levels in the diet.
Seal skins have been used by the peoples of North America and northern Eurasia for millennia to make waterproof jackets and boots, and seal fur to make fur coats.
It is secreted from the glands in the hypopharynx of nurse bees, and fed to all larvae in the colony, regardless of sex or caste.
Along with the identical Canadian Wholesale Meat Specifications Document, they are widely used in the wholesale meat industry, both for institutions and for retailers.
Further, films like Angry Inuk (2016) expose the importance of sealing in providing a sustainable way of making money for Inuit that does not require destructive practices like mining or seismic testing to take place.
Medical experts have warned against the diet as it is nutritionally unbalanced, unsustainable and in the long run will do more harm than good.
Meat consumption was calculated using a trade balance approach - total production plus imports, minus exports.
Hubs of influence By the mid-1820s, the hide and tallow trade, facilitated by Spanish missions and their clergy and later replaced by private ranches, represented the key profitable industry in California, taxes on their primary products propping up the regional economy and infrastructure.
Cooking methods Meats cooked at high temperatures, especially above 300 °F (149 °C) (as in grilling or pan frying), or that are cooked for a long time tend to form more HCAs.
The RCMP (and other Canadian police services) briefly revived them in the 1930s when 700 hides were donated by the Canadian parks service.
company based in Cranford, New Jersey, that makes a range of soy-based, dairy-free foods under the "Tofutti" brand that was founded by David Mintz.
In food preparation, it is used as a coating for cheese; by sealing out the air, protection is given against spoilage (mold growth).
Pollutants can be divided into two main categories: Gaseous Oxidizing "The process involves the formation of free radicals, acids, and other compounds in many materials," they are especially damaging to organic materials, causing them to become more brittle.
The upper layer of the septa and walls consist of vertically aligned crystals, whereas the bottom sublayer consists of nanorods rotated with respect to each other to form a "plywood" structure.
A vibrating belt machine is a device that was promoted to passively reduce body fat through the use of an oscillating or vibrating belt around the exercise subject's waist, without active exercise by the user.
An equipment manager is responsible for the procurement, maintenance, repair, inventory, transportation, storage, cleaning, and disposal of equipment used by a business or organization.
Improvised use of tent pegs The Book of Judges provides the story of Jael, the wife of Heber, a Kenite tentmaker in which Jael kills Sisera by driving a tent peg through his temple as he sleeps.
Twelve new footballs, sealed in a special box and shipped by the manufacturer, are opened in the officials' locker room two hours and 15 minutes before the game.
Discovered around 1900 as a byproduct of the nitrocellulose manufacturing process, Sterno is made from ethanol denatured by adding methanol, water, and an amphoteric oxide gelling agent, plus, in recent decades, a safety dye that gives it a characteristic pink color.
Less known are plus twos, plus sixes, and plus eights, of similar definitions, but accordingly varying lengths.
Hangboard After the development of the campus board, the hangboard (also called the fingerboard) was developed to focus on building static arm strength, and finger tendon strength.
Singh's jodhpur style of flared thigh and hip was rapidly taken up by the British polo-playing community, who adapted it to the existing designs of English riding breeches, which ended snugly at mid-calf, and were worn with tall riding boots.
In the world of theatre tights are also common, especially in Renaissance-era costumes, and dance, particularly in ballet.
Tsubota's hands, which could quickly grasp a player's characteristics and fix them in minutes, were called "magic hands".
In 1997, the company ran into financial difficulties during the 1997 Asian financial crisis and in 1998, Kook-Je and its parent company, Hanil Group, went bankrupt.
However, after a meeting between Vietnamese martial arts masters in 1964, indigo/deep blue was chosen to be the official color of Vietnamese martial arts uniforms.
Products Self-inflating mattress A Therm-a-Rest self-inflating mattress consists of an airtight nylon fabric envelope filled with a sheet of low density, open-cell polyurethane foam.
See also Barbell Dumbbell Kettlebell Exercise equipment Weight training Strength training Resistance training Plyometric training References External links International Bulgarian Bag Confederation
He was truly a master craftsman." Although his title was glove craftsman, he himself insisted that he was not a craftsman; he was an engineer who faithfully responded to the players' requests rather than imposing himself on him.
Veterinarian kits Symbols and identification The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) sets a standard for first aid kits of being green, with a white cross, in order to make them easily recognizable to anyone requiring first aid.
Rollers and trainers are often used by racing cyclists to warm up before racing, or to train indoors on their own machines.
When not in possession of the ball numerical superiority is used to isolate and channel an opponent in possession and 'mark out' any passing options so that an interception or a tackle may be made to gain possession.
It effectively protects against cuts, scrapes, and swelling, but it does not protect very well against concussions.
This happened in August 1999, in a baseball game between the Cleveland Guardians and the Los Angeles Angels, where the distraction caused by a beach ball on the field resulted in the Angels' defeat.
1970s 1970 The 1970 World Series is the first with games on AstroTurf (previously installed at Cincinnati's Riverfront Stadium), as the Reds play the Baltimore Orioles.
In March 2009, Carbrini Sportswear manufactured a one-off set of unique pink kits for Oldham Athletic for their home game against Leeds United.
The most common bobbins are the Petzl Stop and Petzl Simple, but other companies such as Kong and Climbing Technologies also have designs.
Examples are passive (bolts, copperheads, hexcentrics, ice screws, nuts, quickdraws, and skyhooks), and active (cams, friends, tricams).
High profile referee Nigel Owens has however suggested making the wearing of headgear compulsory for all players, and they are mandatory for all players in Japanese youth teams.
Rapala owns 100% of 13 Fishing (a group of brands primarily focused on anglers and fishing), and has exclusive rights to the Okuma fishing brand in Europe and Russia.
Plus fours or plus-fours are breeches or trousers that extend four inches (10 cm) below the knee (and thus four inches longer than traditional knickerbockers, hence the name).
Restricted catches involve positioning the hand around some part of the body, such as under the leg or behind the back.
Gloves are available in a variety of different cuts, including "flat palm", "roll finger" and "negative", with variations in the stitching and fit.
By the mid-2000s, however, the sport experienced a resurgence of growth in Europe, South America, and Japan.
Camalot is a brand of spring-loaded camming devices manufactured by Black Diamond Equipment used to secure ropes while rock climbing.
Hamster balls are recommended by the manufacturers for use with hamsters, gerbils, mice, degus and small rats only; they should not be used for chinchillas or guinea pigs, as their size and body structures are different from small rodents, posing a serious hazard to them if placed inside.
Through a role delineation process, the following areas of job performance were identified and established for athletic equipment managers to be proficient in: management, administration, and professional development; procurement; accountability; maintenance; fitting and safety.
Belay glasses are eyeglasses with prismatic lenses that are used by belayers in rock climbing to avoid the neck strain associated with belaying.
In the Philippines, the various indigenous swords and knives (known under the general term bolo) are commonly incorrectly described as a type of machete (as "bolo machete").
Sports equipment See: Sports equipment#Various sports Association football (soccer) See: Kit (association football)#Equipment In association football, the kit manager or kit man oversees the players' equipment.
A ball gauge is an instrument used by the umpires in cricket to check whether the size of a cricket ball meets the standard measurements mandated by the Laws of Cricket.
Jiu-jitsu regulations allow for tighter cuffs on the pants and jacket, and the skirt (section of the gi beneath the belt) is shorter.
multi-pitch climbing) when the climber cannot comfortably arrange their protection equipment on the gear loops of their harnesses.
External links Video Clip on Using a Figure 8 Belay Device Rei.com How to Choose a Belay Device Mountainproject.com
Widely used in the past by mountain climbers and soldiers, it offers improved gripping on various surfaces.
The water ball is similar to the zorb but it has only one layer and is designed for water travel rather than down-hill rolling.
The 2seconds tent won the Industrial Design Excellence Awards (IDEA) for the innovation of instant tent.
Both Bullworker models have interchangeable springs to easily change resistance levels, ranging from approximately 0–60 kg (0–130 lbs) of resistance.
Most modern devices, including the Petzl Stop, are descended from the Simple, though the idea for a descender similar in function to the Stop goes back to at least 1871.
Smart lacrosse ball On January 14, 2022, at the US Lacrosse Convention, REPS Lacrosse revealed the first "Smart" Lacrosse Ball dubbed the "R1 by REPS".
In contemporary use, it is now common to see coloured bow ties and cummerbunds, often matching, but this is considered non-traditional.
During an episode of acid reflux, small amounts of stomach acid may manage to escape from the stomach and into the oesophagus.
History One of the first bubbles appeared in the film Diamonds Are Forever (1971) and in the music video for the Beach Boys song Getcha Back (1985).
A piece of aid climbing equipment used by the lead climber to attach to bolt runner rivets in the rock.
Transponder timing (also called chip timing or RFID timing) is a technique for measuring performance in sport events.
They have also expanded in less formal situations into use with components of white tie, particularly by musicians, who sometimes wear a white cummerbund instead of the traditional piqué waistcoat.
Their light weight and stability make beach balls ideal for trained seals to balance on their noses, which has become an iconic scene.
Adopted use Mikasa makes the official balls of the Fédération Internationale de Volleyball and the CEV - European Volleyball Confederation (beach and indoor).
An alternative product is a lightweight material vest with built in hydration system, generally know as a race or running hydration vest.
They will also typically have hook extensions to allow the end of the hook to be also driven into the ground, providing a second ground contact point, to reduce the risk that the peg may turn in the ground under tension and allow the rope it is holding to slip off the hook.
In his day he taught Her Majesty Queen Alexandra, George, Prince of Wales (later King George V), Princess Victoria, the Duchess of Connaught and Princess Patricia of Connaught.
They ensure that appropriate equipment is available and functional for specific tasks, both on-site and off-site.
Construction workers often go to diners with a puukko hanging from their overalls, and in the rural and northern parts of the country, it is not uncommon to go shopping in village stores in hunting gear, including a puukko.
These "riding tights" are cheaper to buy than jodhpurs or breeches which are a type of riding pant made of heavier material and which extends only to mid calf length and are intended to be worn with tall riding boots.
The company produces products such as industrial cleaning systems, scrubber driers, electric buses, and battery-operated vehicles.
The term is also used as slang for a type of short riding boot, also called a paddock boot or a jodhpur boot, because they are worn with jodhpurs.
Products The first Springbar tent model, which is still known as the “Traveler,” was 10 by 10 feet, weighed 60 pounds, and cost $83 in 1962.
The record was registered by Guinness and the certificates were given to the members of the film's cast.
On the first day of the UEFA Women's Euro 2025 Admiral released a special edition football shirt with the Spice Girls to celebrate a summer of festivals and football.
Use Colour Cricket balls are traditionally red, and red balls are used in Test cricket and First-class cricket but proposals to introduce other colours date back at least as early as 1937.
Like other cams, Camalot lobes are in the shape of a logarithmic spiral, resulting in a constant angle between the cam and the rock at each contact point; this constant angle is designed to always provide the necessary friction to hold a cam in equilibrium.
In 1999, Australian competitive swimmer Ian Thorpe signed with Adidas for an undisclosed six-figure sum, to race in their new bodysuit, although the national team was sponsored and wore outfits designed by Speedo.
Products Kick scooter models Swift folding bicycle (discontinued) The Swift Folder is a folding bicycle designed by Peter Reich of Design Mobility Inc.
Examples of businesses that might have a Pro shops are bowling alleys, pool and snooker halls, tennis and racquetball courts, ice and roller hockey rinks, and football (soccer) facilities.
A tennis ball generally has 12 pounds per square inch (80 kPa; 0.8 atm) more of a nitrogen and oxygen mixture than the sea level ambient air pressure.
Excessive sitting and bouncing can slowly damage the beach ball, which may cause it to eventually leak or even pop.
Indoor climbing walls can provide on-site fixed mechanical auto belay devices that enable the climber to top rope a route alone; more recent lead auto belay models allow the climber to also lead climb the route alone.
If the ball cannot pass through the maximum diameter, or passes through the minimum diameter, or becomes mis-shapen, the umpires should replace the ball.
They also sometimes perform paid personal equipment maintenance, such as restringing tennis racquets, drilling and fitting bowling balls, re-tipping pool/snooker cues, and skate sharpening.
Genecand was also a well known alpinist (several mountains were named after him: Mount Genecand in Antarctica, Tricouni Peak in Canada).
Racing axe: A tool designed for competitive wood chopping sports such as the Stihl Timbersports Series.
Smaller parachutes tend to fly faster for the same load, and ellipticals respond faster to control input.
Made-to-order custom kits with tailored cuts made to order are becoming increasingly common for individuals, clubs and teams to produce kits with custom designs.
It was introduced by Antoine Le Menestrel to climb a route in Buoux called La rose et le vampire 8b (5.13d) in 1985.
A popular variant is indoor hockey, which differs in a number of respects while embodying the primary principles of hockey.
This is a special traditional style of clothing in Northern India, especially in what is today the modern state of Rajasthan.
Louis Cardinals and Minnesota Twins play the entire 1987 World Series on AstroTurf in their ballparks.
The market has increased both through the popularity of yoga and because many women wear yoga pants as casual everyday dress.
History An "extravagant, careless style that fit right in with the looser fashions and lifestyles of the 1920s", plus fours were introduced to the United States by Edward, Prince of Wales (later Edward VIII), during a trip in 1924.
Some packs are extremely small and minimalist, designed to add as little weight as possible and remain secure while running or cycling, while others are more suited for backpacking and extended hikes, equipped with much larger bladders.
1980s 1980 The Philadelphia Phillies and Kansas City Royals play the entire 1980 World Series on AstroTurf in their ballparks.
creating resistance by pushing or pulling weight away from and toward the body), by using accelerating and deceleration movements to swing and spin the bag at various angles to athlete's body.
Hugh "Shorty" Ray, at the time a college football official and later the NFL's head of officiating, is generally credited with conceiving the pointed football.
For athletes who have practiced pulling movements using only fixed or stable points, the Bachar ladder can improve the strength and efficiency of climbing/pulling movements.
Bone exercise monitors utilize accelerometers for measurement, and the collected data is analyzed with a specially developed algorithm.
I had noticed that a standard pick would often pop out when I placed my weight on it." Chouinard's idea worked and began a period of innovation in ice axe design.
In 1988, Total Gym moved into the physical therapy field, and as of February 2022 most or all of the home equipment line is made in China.
Flukes can deflect or dislodge in harder-packed or dry snow, and are therefore more reliably used in heavy, moist snow.
Overnight shelter An overnight shelter may include a wool blanket and tarp or a complete sleep-system inside a double-walled, four-season tent.
The Carbrini Sportswear football shirts use Carbrini CBX TEX garment technology, which makes the shirts more breathable and able to wick moisture away from the skin.
The hangboard is a popular training tool for all types of rock climbers and comes in many forms, shapes and materials.
The design based on the eyeglasses frame provides for a split field of vision: the central field through the lenses, providing a vertical view to the climber; the peripheral field around the sides of the lenses, allowing the belayer to remain aware of their surroundings.
It is usually a tight-fitting skullcap, usually made of six or eight sections, with a small crescent shaped brim that points downwards over the brow to provide shade for the eyes.
The league later ruled that the Chargers did not violate any rules by using the towels, but the NFL subsequently prohibited its use.
The shorts were then sold to United Artists, who in turn sold to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, who in turn sold these shorts to Ted Turner under Turner Entertainment, and ran these shorts on Turner Classic Movies.
Erik Gustaf Geijer in his History of the Swedes (1832–36) notes that the legend was now limited to the population of Haslidale but had once also been generally believed by the people of Schwyz.
Where Troy Once Stood: The Mystery of Homer"s Iliad and Odyssey Revealed is a 1990 book by Iman Jacob Wilkens that argues that the city of Troy was located in England and that the Trojan War was fought between groups of Celts.
The text was then revised by Ashley Montagu and the revised statement was published in 1951, as well as a book detailing the criticisms in 1952.
The book further suggests that the origins of many religions, including interpretations of the Old Testament of the Bible, are reactions to contact with an alien race.
About a century later, Ptolemy also listed the coastal Oeasso (Οἰασσώ) beside the Pyrénées to the Vascones, together with 15 inland towns, including Pompelon.
In Georgian, the first corresponds to "Ghilghvi" (singular) and "Ghilghvelebi" (plural), which are often found in old Tushin folk poems.
In Greek mythology, Diaprepes (Ancient Greek: Διαπρέπης means "distinguished") was the youngest of the five pairs of twins borne of Poseidon and Cleito in Plato's myth of Atlantis.
It was a gorget stone found in 1917 near Taunton, Massachusetts about five miles upstream from Dighton Rock, known for its mysterious petroglyphs.
The Dorian invasion became connected with the romanticisation of ancient Sparta, and was used to assert a special connection between Prussia and ancient Greece.
The beech argument (German: Buchenargument) is a now mostly outdated argument in Indo-European studies that is in favour of placing the Indo-European Urheimat in an area west of a line connecting Kaliningrad and the Black Sea, based on the current distribution of European beech trees.
These narratives tend to portray a period of submission to the new rulers before which the islanders grew hostile, refusing to herd flocks and till fields as commanded.
It was in the shape of an animal pelt and each side depicted scenes very similar to the Lenape Stone.
When Eikichi and his band do this, the Joker is summoned, then drains all the players but Lisa of their "Ideal Energy" (the essence of hopes and dreams) using a crystal skull.
Ripley's principal opponents; whereas Ripley maintained, as did Vacher de Lapouge, that the European populace comprised three races, Joseph Deniker proposed that the European populace comprised ten races (six primary and four sub-races).
The Delphic Epsilon, which can be found on ancient Greek monuments but also on objects from the Inca civilisation, was established as the symbol of the Epsilon group.
The earliest layer of Greek loanwords was inherited from the variant of Vulgar Latin from which Romanian descends.
"Human biodiversity" (HBD), an alt-right euphemism for scientific racism, was one of the main publishing subjects of Washington Summit Publishers.
Despite this, the Turkic expression persisted long after the Mughal demise in 1857, which the Indian Muslim identity often intertwined to that of Turkic world in some occasions, despite also being very distinctively South Asian in their own.
He explains that sixteenth century map-makers "enlarge(d) … important sections of their charts," such as this bay, hence its exaggerated size.
Other larger ornaments were used for household and decorative tomb and funeral elements which have been identified as key elements of Quimbaya cultural traditions.
He notes that "generation after generation of the elder's of the Kalenjin-speaking people have passed on to the youth the tradition that their ancestors of antiquity migrated to East Africa from Misri".
External links An Early History – African American Mental Health Archived 2011-07-09 at the Wayback Machine
They have been cited by pseudoscientists and reporters in books, popular articles, and many web pages as inexplicable out-of-place artifacts that could only have been manufactured by intelligent beings.
The Davenport Tablets are three inscribed slate tablets found in mounds near Davenport, Iowa on January 10, 1877, and January 30, 1878.
The book details reports and interviews that document the effect of the electroculture process which had not been previously explained scientifically.
Across several papers in the 1960s, Fell proposed a four-subphylum system for Echinodermata (Crinozoa, Homalozoa, Asterozoa, and Echinozoa) to replace the long-standing two-subphylum system (Pelmatozoa and Eleutherozoa).
In popular culture Prapaatha, a 2010 Indian Kannada-language film by Suchendra Prasad, has a story line where a young man tries to find out works of Subbaraya Shastry.
Sarich, Emeritus Professor of Anthropology at the University of California, Berkeley, and Frank Miele, senior editor of Skeptic Magazine, argue for the reality of race, a view rejected by modern science.
[...] Mr Josyer showed some types of designs and drawings of a helicopter-type cargo-loading plane, specially meant for carrying combustibles and ammunition; passenger aircraft carrying 400 to 500 persons; and double- and triple-decked aircraft.
There have been many legends over the centuries of descent from the Ten Lost Tribes after groups converted to Christianity and Islam.
In the legend, the Kisii traveled south in the company of the Kuria, the Maragoli, Bukusu, and Meru.
Typically, these shales lie upon a 3–6 m (9.8–19.7 ft) thick bed of organic carbon-poor sandstone that separates them from the underlying volcanic rocks.
Still, antiquization seems to effectively address the negative sentiments of some Macedonians and their feeling of being rejected.
Both contemporary critics and later biographers have argued that some or all of these foreign visits were fictitious, and that she spent this period in Europe.
However, the scale of the construction would have been difficult to conceal, so an innocent explanation is most plausible.
The Lemurians were around fifteen feet tall, with brown skins and flat faces, no foreheads and prominent jaws.
Most notably there are numerous examples of Akkadian loanwords in both ancient and modern Aramaic languages.
Wilkins, in his book Strange Mysteries of Time and Space, wrote about the Mary Celeste, disappearances at Glastenbury Mountain, medieval mysteries, disappearing aircraft, ships, and people, including Ambrose Bierce and the fictitious David Lang disappearance, claimed by him to be factual.
These brothers mixed the entrails of a child into the god's meal, whereupon the enraged Zeus threw the meal over the table.
Theory Following studies in Iceland from 1825 to 1827, Rudolf Keyser was appointed as a docent at the Royal Frederick University in Christiania, Norway in 1828.
This narrative bears notable similarities to the Greek myth of Prometheus and the Georgian myth of Amirani.
Art Tracy's artworks relate to techniques of combining traditional paintbrushing and finger-painting with modern airbrushing.
capraria (the island of goats) and canaria (the island of dogs) are often found on maps separately from the Canary Islands (e.g.
Neither the Etruscan material culture or language has provided scholars with conclusive evidence regarding the Etruscans as one of the Sea Peoples.
He gained much of his fortune from a card game session, and it was a card of spades that formed his winning hand.
The old Normanist assumption was that the Scandinavians introduced civilization to their Slavic subjects, but the number of Norsemen was relatively small compared to the number of Slavs and non-Slavs.
Neuhoff, Juergen, and Stan Fox, "Translation of the Los Lunas Inscription" webspage dated 1999, accessed Jan.
Descriptions of the Bimini Road found in various books and articles greatly exaggerate the regularity and rectangularity of the blocks composing these features.
regarded as the fundamental text of Hindutva ideology, presents the "Hindu culture as a self-sufficient culture, not needing any input from other cultures", which is "an unhistorical, narcissistic and false account of India's past".
Cresson also discusses a family dispute over the announcement of the discovery, as they were unwilling to risk a controversy such as had been seen with the faked mastodon pipes in the 1880s.
Mounds are typically constructed in layers, however the arch in this grave indicated that at some point the mound was disrupted.
He was also director of the National Policy Institute and managing editor of The Occidental Quarterly, both heavily funded by William Regnery II.
In 2009, the gallery was renamed to the Craig Tracy Gallery to better clarify that it houses and sells his personal works.
Hence the presence of descendants of the term *bʰāg(ó) in Italic, Germanic, Albanian, Greek and (Indo-)Iranian, and potentially Celtic, Slavic, and Baltic, indicates that this word belonged to the Proto-Indo-European language.
Two media reports (in 2003 and 2004) stated that corrosion of the metal and tests both indicated that an acidic agent such as wine or vinegar was present in the jar, without giving sources for that information.
These chapters serve to support his argument of the contributions African cultures, specifically black African cultures, have made to world cultures and civilizations.
If they are gods, then why can't they have some really divine technology such as intradimensional worm-hole travel, antigravity, starlight propulsion, or black hole bounce rematerializations?
The awakening process claimed to be experienced is described as either a gradual series of realizations over time, or an abrupt and dramatic awakening of consciousness.
Jean-Yves Blondeau (born June 1, 1970), also known as Rollerman, is a French designer who is best known for inventing the 32-wheel roller suit.
Henri Édouard Prosper Breuil (28 February 1877 – 14 August 1961), often referred to as Abbé Breuil (French pronunciation: [abe bʁœj]), was a French Catholic priest, archaeologist, anthropologist, ethnologist and geologist.
The third and final season aired on Vision TV starting from March 22, 2010, and subsequently on History International from November 8, 2010.
Crystal skulls are human skull hardstone carvings made of clear or milky quartz rock, known in art history as "rock crystal".
García suggested that the lost tribes must have reached the Americas from eastern Asia via what is now called the Bering Strait.
Another early editor was Herbert Charles Sanborn, formerly the chair of the department of Philosophy and Psychology at Vanderbilt University from 1921 to 1942.
: que les poètes Homère et Hésiode sont originaires de la Belgique, &c., Gent: De l'imprimerie de P.-F.
Archaeological excavations Between 1991 and 1998, with the agreement of Thor Heyerdahl, multiple excavations of the site by archaeologists of the University of La Laguna (Departamento de Prehistoria, Antropología e Historia Antigua) took place.
Hamitic hypothesis The British explorer John Hanning Speke popularized the ancient Hamitic peregrinations in his publications on his search for the source of the Nile River.
Scott-Elliot located Lemuria in the Pacific Ocean, claiming that it was a gigantic landmass that eventually sank, leaving only small islands.
It claimed that the body of Jesus Christ was reburied in the 12th century on Pech-le-Cardou (Mount Cardou) in Rennes-le-Château.
Many of the original artifacts were chimeras of rearranged or reshaped fragments into further complex and aesthetically provoking designs in hopes to sell better along with the fabrication of entirely new fake artifacts that were created in the modern era to resemble those of the past.
19-27 Ferdinand Vetter, Ueber die Sage von der Herkunft der Schwyzer und Oberhasler aus Schweden und Friesland, Bern 1877 Jakob Bächtold, Die Stretlinger Chronik.
In the book, Bürgin presents electroculture as a more ecologically-friendly alternative to genetic engineering.
Gill is an American anthropologist, and a Professor Emeritus at the University of Wyoming who specializes in skeletal biology.
The Naked Archaeologist is a television series on VisionTV in Canada and History International in the US, that was produced and hosted by the Emmy Award–winning journalist Simcha Jacobovici.
(which differs from the angle seen today or in the third millennium BC, because of the precession of the equinoxes).
This is however conjecture, without support based on any actual archaeological or historical evidence that has been substantiated by research.
[The title track Atlantis is] one of Ra's most epic pieces, which is free or 'space' jazz at its most invigorating.
None of the planes has properties or capabilities of being flown; the geometries are unimaginably horrendous from the point of view of flying; and the principles of propulsion make them resist rather than assist flying.
Many more elaborate discoveries were made in the area around Wyman in Montcalm County, Michigan following Scotford's original discovery.
Synopsis The film begins by introducing the cargo cults established by South Pacific Natives after coming in contact with American planes in World War II.
Included is one of Circleville (Plate v), where some earthworks had been plowed under, but the city's plan had been made to conform to Hopewell circles.
Luo stressed Keevak's relevance for contemporary China, where racial thinking persisted in academic and popular discourse despite being largely abandoned in Western scholarship.
On historical and epigraphic grounds, Gordon regards the Byzantine period as the most likely for the inscription.
Heyerdahl received financial support from his friend the Canarian businessman Fred Olsen, who owns the largest transport company in the Canaries and whose family came to the islands from Norway in the 20th century.
For example, Heather Rockwell of University of Wyoming says "Feder's sardonic wit, amusing personal anecdotes, and rigorous attention to detail makes it essential reading for the aspiring archaeologist." See also Pseudoarchaeology Ronald H.
Despite some claims presented in an assortment of popularizing literature, legends of crystal skulls with mystical powers do not figure in genuine Mesoamerican or other Native American mythologies and spiritual accounts.
In India, they have also attempted to erase references to Muslim figures, such as Akbar the Great, or secular figures, such as Nehru, replacing them with icons such as Shivaji whom they falsely imagine "to have been seeking to establish a Hindu Rashtra in premodernity".
He discovered what looked like a human shoe print with a trilobite under its heel after breaking open a slab.
Russell published a pamphlet, "Prehistoric discoveries in Wayne County, Michigan," in which he argued for their authenticity.
In 1982, David Stewart-Smith, director of restoration at Mystery Hill, conducted an excavation of a megalith found in a stone quarry to the north of the main site.
It has, therefore, been thought that this fossil was intentionally brought back to the camp due to its natural phallic resemblance, which makes it a candidate for being a manuport.
Mythology Diaprepes, along with his nine siblings, became the heads of ten royal houses, each ruling a tenth portion of the island, according to a partition made by Poseidon himself, but all subject to the supreme dynasty of Atlas who was the eldest of the ten.
In the southern wall of the National Autonomous University of Mexico's Central Library, the mural Historical Representation of Culture, created by the artist Juan O'Gorman, portrays a depiction of the Pillars of Hercules as an allusion to the colonial past of Mexico and the house of Charles V.
In 1931, a German-American excavation expedition led by Ernst Kühnel found six more clay vessels in the immediately neighboring Ctesiphon, including three sealed find objects, each with one, three and ten wrapped and sealed bronze rolls.
In a letter to Desert Magazine of Outdoor Southwest, a reader stated that a trained geologist had dated the nodule as at least 500,000 years old.
New Agers look inward." Proponents Advocates of the concept of star people/starseeds include Sheldan Nidle, who founded the Planetary Activation Organization.
Petit was highly critical of the remake, citing the gameplay as "Tedious [and] repetitive", referred to the Rumor system as "dull", and generally felt that the game had not aged well.
After designing the Emperor's Tomb, he used Rongorongo, Sikkimese and Peruvian hieroglyphics to conceal the secret to open it; he believed that only after the peoples of the world reach a certain point of peace and cooperation, they would be able to use joint knowledge and understand it.
Criticisms and revival of past cranial theories in the 20th century After being a main influence of US white nationalists, William Ripley's The Races of Europe (1899) was eventually rewritten in 1939, just before World War II, by Harvard physical anthropologist Carleton S.
The following year, 2002, marked the first meeting of CONAGO at which the governors of all 31 states attended.
Since 1982, the act can only be amended in Canada under the amending formula set out in the Constitution Act, 1982.
Many of the former functions of the central government were instead placed under the jurisdiction of the two national governments.
One of the first people to create an intellectual foundation for Belgian nationalism was the Walloon historian Henri Pirenne, who argued for the existence of a distinct Belgian nation in his book series Histoire de Belgique.
The first simultaneous census was held across Australia in 1881 as part of the Census of the British Empire.
The government of Sagasta did not oppose this announcement, permitting the restoration of the monarchy.
Bibliography Vogt, Gustav: "Revision der Lehre von den eidgenössischen Konkordaten", in: Revue de la Société des juristes bernois, 1, 1864, pp.
In May 2007, upon a change of the Belgian Constitution, the court was renamed Constitutional Court as this name is more in keeping with the actual jurisdiction of the court.
However, despite a common enemy, Czechoslovakia–Poland relations were less than friendly because of Polish–Czechoslovak border conflicts.
The Soviet of the Republic was established in 1989, as one of the chambers of the formerly unicameral Supreme Soviet, and elected in 1990.
Famine, such as that of 1983–1985, reliance on foreign aid, and the decline of the world communist movement, undermined the Derg/PDRE administrations.
Salmerón, unlike Pi, made it known he was willing to suppress rebellious cantons with force if necessary.
The 1999 constitutional revision retained the traditional distinction, on the request of the six cantonal governments, as a way to mark the historic association of the half-cantons to each other.
Cheng "The United States of China: How business is moving Taipei and Beijing together" - Asiaweek, July 6, 2001 Davis, Michael C.
Historically, the state of Jammu and Kashmir was accorded a status different from other States owing to an explicitly temporary provision of the Indian Constitution namely Article 370 (which was revoked by the Parliament in 2019).
Reichsrat deputies were members or representatives of the state ministries, and were bound by the instructions of their respective state governments.
References External links Breaking Point at IMDb [1] Breaking Point (2005) Pt.1 [2] Breaking Point (2005) Pt.
It was later qualified by Stephen J that it was necessary that the treaty at the very least deals with an area of international concern.
It is also called Butterfly Agreement (Dutch: Vlinderakkoord; French: Accord papillon), referring to the bow tie which Elio Di Rupo nearly always wears.
But it is a distinction adopted by the Constitution and it must be observed however much inter-dependence may now exist between the two divisions of trade and commerce which the Constitution thus distinguishes.
Salzburg is coterminous with the former Austro-Hungarian Duchy of Salzburg (the former Archbishopric).
State government has no role in implementing the matters falling in Union List unless mutually agreed upon per Article 258.
Higgins J found that the plaintiffs were not entitled to relief for procedural reasons, but expressed doubt as to whether the immigration power should be construed so widely, noting the distinction between a law with respect to immigration and one with respect to immigrants.
That approach followed the example of the Legislative Council of the Province of Canada, where the two sections, Canada East and Canada West, each had twenty-four seats.
It was the product of extensive negotiations between the provinces of British North America at the Charlottetown Conference in 1864, the Quebec Conference in 1864, and the London Conference in 1866.
The latter certainly lost importance with the promulgation of the Swiss Federal Constitution, but continued to be authorized (Article 7, paragraph 2 of the 1848 constitution and Article 48 of the 1999 constitution) and remained common practice.
The Administration of Justice in the Province, including the Constitution, Maintenance, and Organization of Provincial Courts, both of Civil and of Criminal Jurisdiction, and including Procedure in Civil Matters in those Courts.
Since the initial senators had been appointed in 1867, section 127 was no longer needed and was repealed.
In 1977 the Progressive Federal Party was started, which advocated power-sharing through a federal constitution.
Castriciones succeeded Hinlo as party president when the latter decided to run for senator in the 2019 elections.
It met to debate and co-ordinate government activities between the federal and state or territorial governments and between the state and territorial governments themselves as well as issues affecting local government.
Composition Parties involved in government are shaded; parties leading governments are indicated in bold.
Beginning with Guangdong as a model state, he wanted to organize a "United States of China in the manner of the American experience" through negotiation with federalists from all parts of the country.
The provincial power to regulate security interests under the property and civil-rights power will be displaced by security interests created under a federal head of power – most notably under the banking power – but only to the extent that federal law has covered the field.
There is no bright line test as to what falls within the area of criminal procedure, as Dickson J conceded in Di Iorio v Warden of the Montreal Jail: The phrase "criminal procedure" does not lend itself to precise definition.
The Sixth Schedule to the Constitution of India provides measures of autonomy and self-governance to the Scheduled Tribes in the hill regions of Northeast India.
Related provisions Section 92(13) gives the provinces exclusive jurisdiction over property and civil rights.
See also National Cabinet Council of Australian Governments Council of the Federation References External links CAF
His oratory was crushing: Francisco Silvela said that in his speeches, Salmerón only used one weapon—artillery.
This power has become known as "the corporations power", the extent of which has been the subject of numerous judicial cases.
Only since the early 2000s has the number of cases of imposition of President's rule has been drastically reduced.
Beneš's support for the Soviet Union went so far that during his 1943 visit to the US, he argued that the Soviet Union would never be a threat to either Czechoslovakia or Poland.
1993: Fourth state reform The fourth state reform is called the "Sint-Michiels agreement" and took place in 1993 under Prime Minister Jean-Luc Dehaene.
The Anti-Federalists thus became recognized as an influential group among the Founding Fathers of the United States.
Barbuda’s secession request The government is taking the unprecedented step of presenting the matter to the Parliament after it received a letter from the Barbuda Council requesting that discussions commence on the separation of Barbuda from Antigua.
Thus, when Sikorski approached Beneš and proposed discussions over a future Polish-Czechoslovak federation in 1939, aiming to create a stronger postwar Poland and Czechoslovakia, Beneš's response was lukewarm at best, as he was not interested in strengthening Poland.
92(14) that which gives those words much of their substance—the element of "criminal justice." In R v Hauser, Spence J later gave a more succinct explanation: Criminal procedure, ...
Secondly, the Court extended that proposition to temporary immigrants who did not intend to settle in Australia.
Four governorates, Erbil, Sulaymaniyah, Halabja and Duhok, constitute the semi-autonomous Kurdistan Region.
The Reich government has passed the following law, which is hereby promulgated: § 1 (1) The Reichsrat is dissolved.
The conference is particularly important for the fiscal redistribution from the federal government to the states and the "eternal construction" reform of the federal states.
The constitution was amended to remove control of electoral constituencies, including the number allocated to each state, from the Electoral Commission.
The Austrian provincial parliaments are the unicameral legislatures of the nine Austrian provinces, according to the Constitution of Austria deciding in all matters unless explicitly subject of federal legislation.
Iraq consists of 19 governorates (Arabic: محافظة, romanized: muḥāfażah; Kurdish: پارێزگا, romanized: parêzgeh), also known as "provinces".
Manuel Blanco Encalada took office as president on 6 July, two days after the first session of Congress.
On 21 July, a force of 2,000 left Cartagena and took Lorca by 25 July before moving on to the regional capital of Murcia.
History Mediation period (1803–1848) The Act of Mediation of 1803 marked the beginning of intercantonal concordats in Switzerland.
The Flemish nationalist party New Flemish Alliance, which became the largest after the 2010 elections, was notably not part of the agreement nor of the government coalition.
Hearings on the definition of a First Nations child for Jordan's Principle were held March 27–28, 2019, and a ruling (2020 CHRT 20) was issued in July 2020.
The states and circuit are proposed to have greater regional autonomy, similar to the United Kingdom.
On 21 September 1993 the Soviet of Nationalities was disbanded by President of Russia, together with the Supreme Soviet and the Congress of People's Deputies.
Article 118 Article 118 of the constitution of Iraq provided that no new region may be created before the Iraqi National Assembly has passed a law that provides the procedures for forming the region.
Generally also a representative of the federal government - the chancellor or a federal minister - attend the conference.
not government-sponsored) constitutional drafts that sprang from the Freedom and People's Rights Movement in the 1880s.
Hence, the next logical step in the relentless Nazi diminishment of the states was the elimination of the Reichsrat altogether.
The Federalist Society was founded in 1982 by a group of students from Yale Law School, Harvard Law School, and the University of Chicago Law School with the aim of challenging liberal or left-wing ideology within elite American law schools and universities.
After Adolf Hitler became Reich Chancellor on 30 January 1933, he initiated the process of Gleichschaltung (coordination) to assume control of all aspects of the German government and society.
Section 51(xxix) was amended a number of times in the Constitutional Conventions that debated the draft Constitution in the 1890s.
The Military Government appointed a Constitution Commission in February 1960 which framed the 1962 Constitution.
Still others believed that while the national government under the Articles was too weak, the national government under the Constitution would be too strong.
The essence of the conservative position is that there is no legal difference between considering race or gender for purposes of exclusion and considering race or gender for purposes of inclusion.
The judges in Seas and Submerged Lands case (1975) differed as to whether the "external affairs" power entitled the Commonwealth to assert its sovereignty over Australia's territorial sea, though a majority held that it did.
In a series of political battles and court cases from 1872 to 1896, Mowat reversed Macdonald's early victories and entrenched the co-ordinated sovereignty which he saw in the Quebec Resolutions.
Membership of the CCI consists of the following: See also Ministry of Inter Provincial Coordination Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution of Pakistan Federalism in Pakistan Constitution of Pakistan Inter-State Commission Inter-State Council References External links Official website
Pending a full hearing on the matter, the Tribunal ordered Canada to extend Jordan's Principle to First Nations children without Indian Act status who live off-reserve but who are recognized by their Nation, and who have urgent and/or life-threatening needs.
Such a judgement, however, has great moral value and will force the parliament which made the targeted law, decree or ordinance in question to amend it.
Thereafter, the Governor General, convened the Second Constituent Assembly in May 1955, which framed and passed the first Constitution of Pakistan on 29 February 1956.
The constitutional law revision, approved by an absolute majority of the members of the Italian Parliament, according to the provisions of art.
Elections are held every three years for one half of the Senate and each Senator has a term of six years.
Several decades later, in 1974, the Mahlabatini Declaration of Faith, which stressed the federal concept, was signed.
Finland The Diet of Finland, which was created when the country was ceded from Sweden to Russia in 1809, was called lantdag in Swedish until 1906 when it was replaced by the unicameral Parliament of Finland.
Section 98 of the Act provides that the judges of the courts of Quebec must be appointed from the bar of that province.
It insists on restoring total sovereignty to the level of the Belgian state by reverting Belgium to a unitary state, after decades of state structure reforms that made Belgium a federal state since the 1970s.
Therefore, the representatives primarily defended class interests, and decisions were based on a class-based electoral system.
Legislators from the Iraqi Accord Front, Sadrist Movement and Islamic Virtue Party all opposed the bill.
The party is allied with the United Progressive Party, being part of its coalition government between 2004 and 2014.
No act of Sabor dethroned King Karl I, nor did it acknowledge the entering in a state union with Serbia, which is today mentioned in the preamble of the Constitution of Croatia.
Beyond this, they are fully autonomous: they enact their own constitutions, freely organize their local governments, and own and manage their natural and financial resources.
The "Yes-side" Consisted of the individuals of the Quebec population in favor of separating from Canada.
(The other two grounds concerned federal judicial power and executive power.) The High Court dismissed all five grounds.
The Saskatchewan Court of Appeal ruled a federal and provincial Act ultra vires, voiding both as an attempt by the province to vest powers in parliament unauthorized by the BNA Act.
Scott argued that by the nature of the provision, to create federal uniform jurisdiction, it should be read to include all provinces added to Confederation after 1867.
The Australian Bureau of Statistics is the Commonwealth agency responsible for census and statistics.
The anniversary of this agreement, which promised autonomy to ethnic minorities, is celebrated annually as Union Day.
On the report of the Governor of the State that the State's constitutional machinery or legislature fails to abide by Constitutional norms.
The organization, known by the acronym CONAGO, was established in 2001 with a meeting of 20 governors in Mazatlan.
After seceding for a decade, Buenos Aires Province accepted the 1853 Constitution of Argentina in 1861, and its capital city was made a federal territory in 1880.
Administration of justice This power entitles the provinces to establish police forces, prosecution services, penitentiaries, parole services, and ancillary agencies associated with the administration of criminal justice in the province.
A law from 1862 designated as national territories those territories under federal control but outside the frontiers of the provinces.
When Congress is in recess and thus unable to intervene, the President is entitled to decree such intervention, but this executive order is subject to Congressional override upon the Houses' immediate reassembly.
Quenelles de brochet are prepared in many ways, but most recipes first prepare a panade, essentially a thick white sauce, then combine the panade with fish, and put the mixture through a sieve such as a tamis, yielding a forcemeat.
This form of chili was most likely encountered by Christopher Columbus on his trip to the New World and brought back to Spain, where it later spread to Europe, India, and beyond.
Kramarczuk's, a James Beard Award-winning Ukrainian deli in Minneapolis, makes and sells Union Hmong Kitchen branded Hmong sausage.
Salt pork that contains a significant amount of meat, resembling standard side bacon, is known as "streak o' lean." It is traditionally popular in the Southeastern United States.
Bacon is distinguished from other salt-cured pork by differences in the cuts of meat used and in the brine or dry packing.
Dopo was founded in 2003 and Adesso was spun off in February 2009 when the owners acquired additional nearby space.
In this process, fresh cabbage is fermented in a light brine, where the sugars in the cabbage are transformed by lactofermentation to lactic acid which gives the cabbage a sour flavour and good keeping qualities.
Chipotle production involves using firewood to dry and smoke the red jalapeño for six days in an open-smoker installation.
Meat confit is a specialty of the southwest of France (Toulouse, Dordogne, and other areas) and is used in dishes such as cassoulet.
The recipe is practically identical with German Rouladen, perhaps omitting wine and adding a wedge of hard boiled egg and/or frankfurter to the filling.
The marinade typically contains various spices, herbs, and vegetables, including tomatoes, onions, powdered dried chilis, garlic, and vinegar.
When cooked in tomato sauce, the sauce itself is used to toss the pasta for the first course, giving a consistent taste to the whole meal.
There have been limited industrial applications of PEF processing for the pasteurization of fruit juices.
Confit (, French pronunciation: [kɔ̃fi]; Occitan: Confisat) (from the French word confire, literally "to preserve") is any type of food that is cooked slowly over a long period as a method of preservation.
In valence bond theory, it is described as a resonance hybrid with equal contributions from two canonical forms that are mirror images of each other.
The Middle Ages made pâté a masterpiece: that which is, in the 21st century, merely spiced minced meat (or fish), baked in a terrine and eaten cold, was at that time composed of a dough envelope stuffed with varied meats and superbly decorated for ceremonial feasts.
In the United Kingdom, a pork leg cut, either whole or sliced, that has been cured but requires additional cooking is known as gammon.
Noumboulo (from Venetian nombolo: loin) is a traditional charcuterie product of the Island of Corfu.
They may also be cooked in a wide variety of non-pottery terrine moulds, such as stainless steel, aluminium, enameled cast iron, and ovenproof plastic.
Customization can be accommodated by varying the duration of the smoking or placement of a batch relative to the source of heat and smoke, in addition to the leaf selection.
The East Slavic, Hungarian and Romanian variety may also be cured with paprika or other seasonings added, whereas the South and West Slavic version is often smoked.
Adding nitrites to meat has been shown to generate known carcinogens; the World Health Organization (WHO) advises that eating 50 g (1.8 oz) of nitrite processed meat a day would raise the risk of getting bowel cancer by 18% over a lifetime.
History and occurrence In 1956, two British scientists, John Barnes and Peter Magee, reported that a simple member of the large class of N-nitrosamines, dimethylnitrosamine, produced liver tumours in rats.
2017 Leuconostoc citrovorum The name Leuconostoc citrovorum (Hammer) Hucker and Pederson 1931 was rejected in 1971 as a nomen dubium by the Judicial Commission of International Committee on Systematics of Prokaryotes (in Opinion 45).
Without such a mixer unit, the additives must be mixed into the meat after grinding it, which adversely affects the taste and appearance of most products.
The association has developed a point system for judging the quality of ice sculptures created in timed competitions and certifies competition judges.
Tinned pâté, being shelf-stable, has sometimes been included in military rations, for, among others, the French Armed Forces, whose rations have included tinned pâté for more than 100 years.
From this derived the French word boucane and hence the name boucanier for French hunters who used such frames to smoke meat from feral cattle and pigs on Hispaniola (now Haiti and the Dominican Republic).
When they are deep red and have lost much of their moisture, they are picked to be made into chipotles.
Throughout much of the rest of Europe and parts of the English-speaking culinary world, speck is usually South Tyrolean speck, a type of Italian smoked ham.
In French cuisine, galantine (French: [galɑ̃tin]) is a dish of boned, stuffed meat, most commonly poultry or fish, that is usually poached and served cold, often coated with aspic.
Salo is often chopped into small pieces and fried to render fat for cooking, while the remaining shkvarky (a type of cracklings) are used as condiments for fried potatoes or varenyky or spread on bread as a snack.
D’Artagnan's line of products became more available to the consumer public when it began selling items to major grocery stores Balducci's and the Food Emporium in 1996.
The French refer only to duck and goose confits as true confits; other meats poached in duck or goose fat are considered en confit ("in confit").
Alinazik kebab, or simply Ali Nazik, is a home-style Turkish dish which is a specialty of the Gaziantep province of Turkey.
It is formed by extrusion through a die to the desired diameter, dried and shirred into short sticks up to 41 cm (16 in) long that contain as much as 50 m (160 ft) of casing.
The meat industry considers nitrites irreplaceable because they speed up curing and improve color while retarding the growth of Clostridium botulinum, the bacteria that causes botulism.
See also Maceration (food) Confit byaldi Fruit preserves Philippine adobo Potted meat Rendang References Further reading Larousse gastronomique: the encyclopedia of food, wine & cookery, Ed.
Overview Since 1975, the company has grown from a neighborhood take-out shop in Greenwich Village into a nationally distributed specialty food brand.
Texas In Texas, the hot link is typically prepared with beef, and is usually cooked over indirect heat.
It is usually baked, fried or grilled and often accompanies other dishes, sometimes as part of tapas.
Its style has been influenced by the California cuisine of the nearby Chez Panisse, as well as the charcuterie of Oliveto, a nearby restaurant that was one of the first in the country to have an in-house charcuterie program.
Old French jambon is attested since the 13th century and is derived from Old French jambe (gambe in Old North French) which in turn is derived from the Late Latin gamba, meaning "leg/hock of a horse/animal".
These are available in all diameters and in put ups from short up to medium length, about 6 meter minimum, with a maximum length of about 14 meters.
There is also another approach of impregnating packaging materials (plastic films or other) with antioxidants and antimicrobials.
Upon addition to water, GDL is partially hydrolysed to gluconic acid, with the balance between the lactone form and the acid form established as a chemical equilibrium.
Other methods There are many different methods for drying, each with its own advantages for particular applications.
Sausages with the same name in different countries may be identical, similar, or significantly different.
Adesso's menu focused on salumi and Pâté, with a substantially larger array of charcuterie available than at Dopo.
The fruit must be fully infused with sugar to its core; larger fruit takes considerably longer than smaller ones to candy.
Meat A meat-based roulade typically consists of a slice of steak rolled around a filling such as cheese, vegetables, or other meats.
In cuisine As an ingredient, fatback is a preferred fat for various forms of charcuterie, particularly sausages and forcemeats for pâtés and terrines.
"Confit country" is the area of Occitan France, where goose fat is used for cooking, as opposed to olive oil, which is used in Provence, where olives were plentiful and thus cheap.
Les Trois Petits Cochons also known as Three Little Pigs is an American charcuterie company founded in 1975 in Greenwich Village of New York City.
Tyrolean speck is a distinctively juniper-flavored ham originally from Tyrol, a historical Austrian region that since 1918 partially lies in Italy.
I called my mom, because I wasn't sure, but I remember as a kid she chopped it up and put it in this casing..." Hmong Americans tend to make the sausage a foot or more long and very thick, then eat it fresh or freeze it to preserve it.
Job requirements As with most hands-on cooking positions, a garde manger chef needs fine motor skills and physical stamina, as well as cooking skills and knowledge of food safety.
Other common dishes include croissant preñado, a croissant with chistorra filler, and tortilla con chistorra, a potato or egg omelet with chistorra.
Although it is enjoyed all year round, it is traditionally served as an hors d’oeuvre on Christmas and New Year's days.
The Slavic word "salo" or "slanina" as applied to this type of food is often translated to English as "bacon", "lard" or "fatback" in general, depending on context.
The local variety of chistorra available in the province of León is called Chistorra de León and is made with a larger percentage of beef.
are intrinsically resistant to vancomycin and are catalase-negative (which distinguishes them from staphylococci).
Under anaerobic conditions, nitrate is the strongest electron acceptor used by prokaryote microorganisms (bacteria and archaea) to respirate.
As a stand-alone food product, it is typically boiled to remove much of the salt content and to partially cook the product, then fried until it starts to develop a crisp exterior.
Lap cheong (simplified Chinese: 腊肠; traditional Chinese: 臘腸; pinyin: làcháng; Jyutping: laap6 coeng4; Cantonese Yale: laahp chéung; also lap chong, lap chung, lop chong) are dried pork sausages that look and feel like pepperoni but are much sweeter.
It belongs to the family of dishes known as fattat (plural) or fatta, which use stale flatbread as a base.
History Several historical factors contributed to the regional popularity of pork, and pork fat in particular: unlike cattle, which could be used as workforce, and whose meat would mostly be sold by villagers to urban inhabitants along with mutton, pigs were seen as a resource for consumption.
A classic named reaction for the synthesis of alkyl nitrites is the Meyer synthesis in which alkyl halides react with metallic nitrites to a mixture of nitroalkanes and nitrites.
With a smoke point of 480 °F (249 °C), tallow is traditionally used in deep frying and was preferred for this use until the rise in popularity of plant oils for frying.
Smoking may also provide a means to create a marketable product from older or less flavourful leaves.
Besides the domestic manually or motor operated grinders, there are also grinders for butchery (table- or shop-grinders for example) and for the food industry.
A quenelle (French pronunciation: [kə.nɛl]) is a mixture of creamed fish or meat, sometimes combined with breadcrumbs, with a light egg binding, formed into an egg-like shape, and then cooked.
Salt pork typically resembles uncut side bacon, but is fattier, being made from the lowest part of the belly, and saltier, as the cure is stronger and performed for longer, and never smoked.
Founding The Church of Bacon was founded during a meeting at Penn Jillette's house in 2010, to fight discrimination against atheists.
Pellicles of protein that form prior to smoking meat (including fish and poultry) allow smoke to better adhere to the surface of the meat during the smoking process.
The use of polyamide casings has expanded recently with the advent of various varieties and structures of casings such as multilayer casings.
Confit country is divided roughly into regions where one type of meat predominates the confit preparations.
It is made from smoked and spiced eggplant, grilled and then pureed, topped with cubes of sauteed lamb, previously seasoned and marinated.
Billboards UCB has posted billboards in Las Vegas, Nevada in order to spread awareness of both itself and various atheist and skeptic messages.
Meat confit Confit of goose (confit d'oie) or duck (confit de canard) is usually prepared from the legs of the bird.
Both restaurants focused on charcuterie, with menus changing on a daily basis to take advantage of timely ingredients.
In southern parts of Italy such as Sicily, where fish are a more plentiful element of cuisine, involtini can sometimes be made with fish such as swordfish.
Palmitic acid and stearic acid are the main saturated fatty acids, while oleic acid is the principal monounsaturated fatty acid; it has a low content of polyunsaturated fatty acids (4% of total; details below and in table source).
In popular culture The 1954 rhythm and blues song "Fat Back and Corn Liquor" was written by Louisiana songwriter Rudy Toombs and sung by Louis Jordan.
In some areas it is called studen' (студень) or studenets (Ukrainian: студенець, romanized: studenets), derived from a different root with a similar meaning.
Nitrates are produced by a number of species of nitrifying bacteria in the natural environment using ammonia or urea as a source of nitrogen and source of free energy.
In the Middle Ages, there were numerous recipes for pâtisseries (meats—pork, poultry, game or fish— cooked in pastry).
The scientific research of lactobacilli in relation to oral health is a new field and only a few studies and results have been published.
Pâté was known to the Romans, who generally made it with pork, although other main ingredients might include marinated and spiced birds' tongues.
2020 Leuconostoc mesenteroides (Tsenkovskii 1878) van Tieghem 1878 (Approved Lists 1980) Leuconostoc miyukkimchii Lee et al.
Pastry Some roulades consist of cake (often sponge cake) baked in a flat pan rolled around a filling.
For these reasons, it is often used as a food supply by shepherds, hunters, backpackers, and other travellers, and was issued to German and Hungarian soldiers as part of their rations during World War II.
Unlike the large roulade, sliced before serving, the "birds" are typically 10 cm (3.9 in) long, served whole with a side dish of rice or Czech style bread dumplings.
Salt is used especially to reduce the concentration of bacteria which preserves it for a longer time and gives a salty taste.
Metabolic activation is required to convert them to the alkylating agents that modify bases in DNA, inducing mutations.
Forms of chipotle Chipotles are purchased in numerous forms: chipotle powder, chipotle flakes, chipotle pods, canned chipotles in adobo sauce, concentrated chipotle base, and wet chipotle meat marinade.
June 2022 The United Church of Bacon posted 2 billboards saying "Bacon is our God" in Birmingham, AL.
By the 1950s, meat aspic was a popular dinner staple, as were other gelatin-based dishes such as tomato aspic.
History The term garde manger (French for larder) originated in pre-Revolutionary France, where large, wealthy households designated a kitchen manager to supervise the use and storage of large amounts of foodstuffs.
Instead, clergy are encouraged to ask whomever is provided services to donate to either the charity of their choice or from a list on their website.
However, a variety of monoids has the property that all its members are compact if and only if all finitely generated members satisfy the maximal condition on congruences (any family of congruences, ordered by inclusion, has a maximal element).
If balancing is used at any point, it is used for all points below it on the following list ("to the right" in traditional wording of the deranking hierarchy) Relevant clauses for each example are italicised.
A secondary predicate is a (mostly adjectival) predicative expression that conveys information about the subject or the object but is not the main predicate of the clause.
They qualify as an abstract family of languages (furthermore a full AFL) and hence satisfy many closure properties.
The block has four standardized variants defined to specify emoji-style (U+FE0F VS16) or text presentation (U+FE0E VS15) for the two emoji, both of which default to a text presentation.
For many people, the notion of agency is easy to grasp intuitively but difficult to define: typical qualities that a grammatical agent often has are that it has volition, is sentient or perceives, causes a change of state, or moves.
(The act of killing Edward is good to fear) "I'm glad I'm a man, and so is Lola" from the song "Lola" by the Kinks (written by Ray Davies) Lola and I are both glad I'm a man.
Kai is the most frequent word in any Greek text, and thus used by statisticians to assess authorship of ancient manuscripts based on the number of times it is used.
Syntactic ambiguity Demonstrations of ambiguity between alternative syntactic structures underlying a sentence.
An example is the following, which is from a letter by an ex-consul Servius Sulpicius Rufus to Cicero: circiter hōrā decimā noctis P.
This practice, known as address munging, attempts to make the email addresses less vulnerable to spam programs that scan the internet for them.
In the Romance languages, the demonstrative pro-forms function as correlatives with the relative pro-forms, as autant–que in French; in English, demonstratives are not used in such constructions, which depend on the relative only: "I saw what you did", rather than *"I saw that, what you did".
Given the restriction to one specific area of the Indo-European world, it may have been a dialectal regionalism within the proto-language.
The modal semantics of the augmentless forms may then be a later development within Indo-Iranian or Indo-Aryan.
If p = f(q) for some patterns p, q ∈ P* and some substitution f, then p is said to be less general than q, written p≤q; in that case, necessarily |p| ≥ |q| holds.
While the "universal grinder" can be used in many Indo-European languages, most particularly English and Dutch, it does not apply in all languages; there is considerable cross-linguistic variation in the morphology and semantics of the mass/count and singular/plural distinctions.
Like any top-down recursive descent parsing, the conventional parser combinators (like the combinators described above) will not terminate while processing a left-recursive grammar (e.g.
In 2017, Marian Wilson Kimber published a book focusing on the once-popular female dominated genre of elocution set to musical accompaniment.
See also Kaige revision, group of Greek-language Septuagint Bible versions that frequently use Koine Greek: και γε [kai ge] ('and indeed').
An anankastic conditional is a grammatical construction of the form If you want X, you have to do Y.
Honorifics Many languages express person with different morphemes in order to distinguish degrees of formality and informality.
In Icelandic, it is referred to as atmerkið ("the at sign") or hjá, which is a direct translation of the English word at.
A system of equations is a subset E of the Cartesian product X∗ × X∗ of the free monoid (finite strings) over X with itself.
Based on this algorithm, the class of pattern languages can be identified in the limit from positive examples.
Basic idea In any programming language that has first-class functions, parser combinators can be used to combine basic parsers to construct parsers for more complex rules.
Against Locke, he held that language is involved in the creation of ideas and is not merely a medium to communicate them.
Different forms Globally ambiguous A globally ambiguous sentence is one that has at least two distinct interpretations and where reading the entire sentence does not resolve the ambiguity.
About the book The book is used by English language students, especially those from non-English-speaking countries, as a practice and reference book.
It appears in the titles of some stage and screen works, especially comedies and musicals; examples include the game show Jeopardy!; the '60s musical TV show Shindig!; musicals Oklahoma!, Mamma Mia!, Oliver!, and Oh!
It literally means 'water last water' and refers to 'water for washing the hands after meal, grace water'.
Gerald Gazdar (1988) and Vijayashanker (1987) introduced a mildly context-sensitive language class now known as linear indexed grammars (LIG).
For patterns of different length, the above example p = 0x10xx1 and q = xxy shows that L(p) ⊆ L(q) may hold without implying p ≤ q.
This insight revolutionized Arabic literary theory, Qurʾanic exegesis (tafsīr), and the philosophy of language.
A central goal in LFG research is to create a model of grammar with a depth which appeals to linguists while at the same time being efficiently parsable and having the rigidity of formalism which computational linguists require.
In English, examples of correlative pairs are both–and, either–or, neither–nor, the–the ("the more the better"), so–that ("it ate so much food that it burst"), and if–then.
Some Algonquian languages and Salishan languages divide the category of third person into two parts: proximate for a more topical third person, and obviative for a less topical third person.
As with indirect questions, the tense of the subjunctive depends on whether the context is present or past.
(Cicero) 'then I showed the tablets to Lentulus and asked if he recognised the seal; he nodded.' quaesīvī ā Catilīnā in nocturnō conventū apud M.
Hopcroft and Ullman (1979) call such nonterminals nullable, and compute them as follows: If a rule A → ε exists, then A is nullable.
However, in the English translation, the determiner the does not have theta-features since English is considered not to assign theta-features to its determiners.
Integrational Lexical Semantics (with Integrational Morphosemantics and Integrational Word Semantics as its parts) combines the psychological and the realist traditions in semantics.
In such cases, attention should be paid to a conclusion's underlying argument so that the language used is both simple and precise.
These correspond to the discourse functions statement, question, exclamation, and command respectively.
Following these studies, it was concluded that the J-rules comprising the syntacto-semantic base of the model proffered a pool of structural possibilities from which all natural languages draw, but that none necessarily uses them all nor the same subset.
Typical Spanish pleonasms Voy a subir arriba – I am going to go up upstairs, "arriba" not being necessary.
This allows the typesetter to distinguish sentence endings from abbreviations and to typeset them differently.
In this regard, semantics focuses on the organization of and action upon information by acting as an intermediary between heterogeneous data sources, which may conflict not only by structure but also context or value.
In 1956, he introduced a clear distinction between generative rules (those of context-free grammars) and transformation rules.
Speech and language processing: an introduction to natural language processing, computational linguistics, and speech recognition.
This correspondence was motivated by commutator identities in group theory due to Philip Hall and Ernst Witt.
Among the most common operations on two languages A and B are the set union A ∪ B, and their concatenation A⋅B.
In the 1980s desktop publishing software provided the average writer with more advanced formatting tools.
Ullman, Introduction to Automata Theory, Languages, and Computation, Addison-Wesley Publishing, Reading Massachusetts, 1979.
Hall set The Hall set is a totally ordered subset of a free non-associative algebra, that is, a free magma.
Not all conditionals of this form have an anankastic interpretation: If you want to eat chocolate, you should try thinking about something else.
It is generally assumed that the augment was originally a separate particle meaning something like "then", added to indicate the past time of a form that was once mostly aspectual, and neutral with respect to tense.
This case carries the basic meaning of "in": for example, "in the house" is talo·ssa in Finnish, maja·s in Estonian, куд·са (kud·sa) in Moksha, etxea·n in Basque, nam·e in Lithuanian, sāt·ā in Latgalian and ház·ban in Hungarian.
In anaphoric binding, an anaphor requires a coreferent antecedent that c-commands the anaphor and that is in the domain of the anaphor.
There are verb forms that possess the same type of person and tense marking as the verb forms used in independent declarative clauses, but differ in mood.
The symbols ⋅ {\displaystyle \cdot } and ≤ {\displaystyle \leq } are also written ⊗ {\displaystyle \otimes } and → {\displaystyle \to } respectively.
Displacement refers to information lost in time and space which allows us to communicate ideas relating to the past or future (not just the now), and that have taken or can take place at a separate location (from here).
The perfective aspect often includes a contextual variation similar to an inchoative aspect or verb, and expresses the beginning of a state.
Further, the topic of normativity in a discourse or a social norm both contribute to how a conversation functions.
Language equations are mathematical statements that resemble numerical equations, but the variables assume values of formal languages rather than numbers.
In English Modal adjectives can express modality regarding a situation or a participant in that situation.
For example, "the team is in the dressing room" (formal agreement) refers to the team as an ensemble, while "the team are fighting among themselves" (notional agreement) refers to the team as individuals.
Although it is not covered under "Unified Ideographs", it is treated as a CJK character for all other intents and purposes.
Subordination deranking hierarchy Languages that use deranking for their subordinate-clause verb forms do so according to a definite pattern.
For participants, however, the usual syntactic construction has the adjective phrase in attributive modifier function, as in the following examples, where the modal adjective is again in bold and this time the participant in underlined.
According to Robert Kowalski, an early developer of Prolog, the first Prolog system was developed in 1972 by Alain Colmerauer and Phillipe Roussel.
Ancient Greek has words that are formally similar to the Sanskrit injunctive mood, consisting of aorist and imperfect forms lacking the augment.
The class of compact semigroups is not closed under taking morphic images or infinite direct products.
Interactional linguistics asks research questions such as "How are linguistic patterns shaped by interaction?" and "How do linguistic patterns themselves shape interaction?".
So while there may not be a morphologically based alethic mood, this does not seem to preclude the usefulness of distinguishing between these two types of modes.
The last axiom can be written equivalently as a•(a → a)* ≤ a, a form which makes its role as induction more apparent.
The verb [send], which moves to the empty V position, has two thematic roles that are assigned to the internal arguments theme: [a letter] and goal [to Mary].
Greek The predominant scholarly view on the prehistory of the augment is that it was originally a separate grammatical particle, although dissenting opinions have occasionally been voiced.
There are verb forms that have the same distinctions of person, tense and aspect as are found in main-clause verbs, but which indicate them using special forms distinct from those of main clause verbs.
EAGs are a member of the family of two-level grammars; more specifically, a restriction of Van Wijngaarden grammars with the specific purpose of making parsing feasible.
See also Eggan's theorem and Generalized star height sections of the Star height article Star height problem References Janusz A.
Unlike SPARQL, SQL query, which reflects the specific structure of the database and derived from matching the relevant primary and foreign keys of tables, loses the semantics of the query by missing the relationships between entities.
Definition An action algebra (A, ∨, 0, •, 1, ←, →, *) is an algebraic structure such that (A, ∨, •, 1, ←, →) forms a residuated semilattice in the sense of Ward and Dilworth, while (A, ∨, 0, •, 1, *) forms a Kleene algebra in the sense of Dexter Kozen.
Resultatives are distinct from depictive constructions, though often both a resultative and a depictive reading is possible from the same sentence.
Parser combinators enable a recursive descent parsing strategy that facilitates modular piecewise construction and testing.
A study guide is placed at the end of the book, which contains exercises that when solved reveal what topics student needs improvement on, and suggests the unit numbers the student should study; and thus the reader can figure out which units to study and which to omit.
In computer science, extended affix grammars (EAGs) are a formal grammar formalism for describing the context free and context sensitive syntax of language, both natural language and programming languages.
They use U+FE00 VARIATION SELECTOR-1 (VS01) and U+FE01 VARIATION SELECTOR-2 (VS02): Orientation Quotation marks and other punctuation have expected differences in behaviour in vertical and horizontal text.
Though the book was titled as a self-study reference, the publisher states that the book is also suitable for reinforcement work in the classroom.
The remaining five cases are: Elative case ("out of") Illative case ("into") Allative case ("onto") Adessive case ("on") Ablative case ("from") Finnish The Finnish language inessive uses the suffix -ssa or -ssä (depending on vowel harmony).
In computing, an unparser is a system that constructs a set of characters or image components from a given parse tree.
A particularly long example is the opening stanza (lines 1-22) of Walt Whitman's "Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking"; another is the opening sentence of Milton's Paradise Lost.
Modern Hebrew shm- is traceable back to Yiddish, and is found in English as well as shm-reduplication.
and Joomla!, and the online game Kahoot!, although some media style guides, including those of Reuters and The Economist, omit such marks from trade names.
Names for categories of a given idiolect system are then derived from such relational terms: the expression 'verb of SE' denotes the set of all verbs of SE (a category), i.e., denotes the set of all linguistic entities that are related to idiolect system SE by the relation [is a ]verb[ of].
Alethic modality is often associated with epistemic modality in research, and it has been questioned whether this modality should be considered distinct from epistemic modality which denotes the speaker's evaluation or judgment of the truth.
In "Presupposition and Anaphora: Remarks on the Formulation of the Projection Problem", the philosopher Saul Kripke noted that some presupposition triggers do not seem to permit such accommodation.
For a regular language, its generalized star height is defined as the minimum nesting depth of Kleene stars needed in order to describe the language by means of a generalized regular expression, hence the name of the problem.
Criticism Refutation from necessary truths Scott Soames has harshly criticized truth-conditional semantics on the grounds that it is either wrong or uselessly circular.
Although not present in the original ALGOL 60 report (instead introduced a few years later in IBM's PL/I definition), the notation is now universally recognised.
Steven Pinker explored this question in a popular science format in a 2007 book on language and cognition, using a widely publicized example from a speech by a U.S.
The specific ratio decidendi of the decision is debated, but the judgments provide guidance and authoritative discussion used in later cases.
Origin and content Legal development Until 1943, the legal basis for abortion in Germany was the Reich Criminal Code passed in 1871 with Sections 218–220, the punishment for which had been softened in a new version passed in 1926.
Washington In 1980, the mother of a mentally incompetent minor petitioned the court for an order authorizing the sterilization of the minor.
All Islamic schools of thought agree that abortion is recommended when the mother's life is in danger as the mother's life is paramount.
When taken within 72 hours of sex without contraception, Plan B and generics can help prevent an unwanted pregnancy.
In October 2013, Religion Dispatches moved to the University of Southern California's Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism's website.
In a 2003 Gallup poll, 72% of respondents were in favor of notification to the husband, with 26% opposed; of those polled, 79% of males and 67% of females responded in favor of notification inside married couples.
The couple claimed on two bases: first, the physical discomfort suffered by the wife from the pregnancy, confinement, and delivery; second, the financial costs for the caring of and bringing up of a child.
Although her name was on the patents for the device, Organon licensed the product to three over-the-counter pharmaceutical companies, and Crane never received a penny for her design.
Young provided evidence that a number of employees received accommodations while suffering similar or more serious disabilities.
Turkey The Constitution of Turkey guarantees security of person, along with the right to liberty, in Article 19, enacted in 1982 and amended in 2001.
Society and culture In 2021, Unicode approved the "pregnant man" and "pregnant person" emojis in version 14.0, and added to Emoji 14.0.
Of those that have ratified it, 12 exceed its provisions, 11 fully comply with the provisions, 16 partially comply, and 4 do not comply.
TFMR made a submission calling for a repeal of the Eighth Amendment and the removal of abortion from criminal law.
Beatie and his wife Nancy wanted a child, however, since she was unable to conceive due to prior medical complications, Beatie went off of HRT and became pregnant with the help of a sperm donor.
Nebraska Putative Father Registry Form - Nebraska Search Registry Form New Mexico - The New Mexico Department of Health, Vital Records website has a brief description of the registry and includes forms to search and to register, the links and form names even match.
The 1920 abortion laws of France have not been entirely repealed leading to ambiguity in the nation's policies.
Some chest masculinization surgeries prohibit people from chestfeeding at all, but some surgeries maintain the mammary glands and just remove breast tissue.
Europe Legislation allowing chemical castration exists in France, the United Kingdom, Poland, Russia, North Macedonia, Belgium and Turkey.
Many women make multiple attempts at abortions, as they seek out professional services after inexpensive methods often fail.
Fetal viability means the point in pregnancy when, in the professional judgment of the patient's treating health care practitioner, there is a significant likelihood of the fetus' sustained survival outside the uterus without the application of extraordinary medical measures.
The Abortion Support Network is a UK charity and abortion fund which provides financial assistance, accommodation and consultation to people in Europe who are seeking an abortion abroad.
Lord Steyn advances a distributive justice argument, that the court needed to consider whether spreading the burden across society was just, which for wrongful conception, it was not.
To date, PEI is the only Canadian province that does not perform surgical abortions on its own soil.
In 2020–21, Goodwin received the University of California's highest honor, the Distinguished Senior Faculty Award for Research.
It could also have psychological consequences for the woman, and would lead to poor mother-child relations as the child matures.
In South Africa, Cape Malays used red geraniums, Khoekhoe people used thorn bushes, and Zulu people used a shrub called uhlungughlungu.
WGNRR's two primary campaigns are the International Day of Action for Women's Health (May 28) and the International Day of Action for Access to Safe and Legal Abortion (September 28).
Section 1(a) of this law recognized "the right of the individual to life, liberty, security of the person and enjoyment of property, and the right not to be deprived thereof except by due process of law." However, the Bill of Rights was a statute and not part of the Constitution.
Before the embryo was implanted, Robinson signed a contract stating she would carry the pregnancy to term and relinquish her parental rights in favor of her brother and Hollingsworth.
Offspring limitation facilitated the financial stability of the influential families, preserving social order, and the males of these castes were required to perform important religious rituals.
Given the contentious nature of abortion, lawmakers and other stakeholders often face controversy in defining abortion.
He is afraid of Cú Chulainn's reaction if he exercises it in this case, but is equally afraid of losing his authority if he does not.
Litigation In 2009 the women, assisted by the Southern Africa Litigation Centre, the Namibia Women's Health Network and the Legal Assistance Centre, sued the government for damages, claiming that sterilisation without informed consent violates a number of rights.
Some criminologists even suggest that offenders may sell their prescribed medications on the black market, giving them extra income to fund ways to conceal their criminal behaviour more effectively than untreated offenders.
Background The amendment was primarily sponsored by Wyoming State Senator Leslie Nutting (7th district) intended to prohibit people from being compelled to participate in the ACA.
Dorf, the amendment would protect the right to abortion in the state of New York by ensuring that prohibiting abortion would be an unconstitutional form of health-care discrimination because they would be "singling out one form of reproductive health care, and not other kinds of health care".
The case has been viewed as a victory by advocates for the rights of sperm donors and the men's rights movement.
The form, which is called a "Notice of Intent to Claim Paternity - Paternity Registry," also notes that a non-married putative father may have to register in other states along with Texas.
179 (1973), was a decision of the United States Supreme Court overturning the abortion law of Georgia.
Synopsis Policing the Womb centers the criminalization of birth and other aspects of reproduction in the United States, such as contraception and abortion.
Goodwin argues in favor of widening current "choice" movements to reproductive justice, an expansive framework inclusive of domains like abortion access, healthcare, and mass incarceration.
Initiative 434 and Initiative 439 were mutually exclusive; only the one with more votes in favor would become law in the event both amendments passed.
Results The following table details the results by county: Impact on abortion Following the US Supreme Court's decision in Dobbs v.
These bills, referred to as TRAP laws (Targeted Regulation of Abortion Provider), implement medically unnecessary restrictions for clinics that will be difficult or impossible for providers to meet, therefore forcing clinics to close under the guise of increasing the safety of the procedure.
Mifepristone and/or misoprostol The only scientifically studied effective self-induced abortion method is ingesting a combination of mifepristone and misoprostol or misoprostol alone.
The only online information located is a fax number posted by the New Hampshire Probate Court Administrative Office.
The court said that Patel endangered the child by not seeking medical care but that prosecutors failed to prove that her failure to do so resulted in the child's death.
A fifth type is partner rape due to sperm competition when the male suspects or knows that the female has had sex with another male.
In the 14th-century French epic poem Baudouin de Sebourc, a tyrannical lord claims the jus primae noctis unless he receives part of the bride's dowry.
As of 2024, ASN has made over £1,400,000 in grants to people seeking abortions, and has been contacted by 10,000 people.
By 2012, disagreement with forced abortion was being expressed by the public in China, thought to be fuelling pressure to repeal the one-child policy.
For example, anthropologist Peggy Reeves Sanday has documented significant cross-cultural variation in the prevalence of rape, suggesting that sexual violence correlates more strongly with social factors like male dominance and militarism than with evolutionary imperatives.
In 1892, the Dutch league became the first to set up a medical clinic to provide information directly to the poor.
Prior to enactment of the federal law, the fetus in utero was, as a general rule, not recognized as a victim of federal crimes of violence.
Uganda - National Climate Change Policy (NCCP) The Uganda National Climate Change Policy identifies vulnerable populations and highlights them in climate change adaptation and mitigation efforts.
Sessions The rules regarding where and when the committee can hold sessions are laid out in their rules of procedure.
The law was passed to eliminate the cost burden and keep low-income students in schools during their menstrual cycle.
Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney has re-introduced the bill a number of times since then, but it has never passed or received significant support.
Wade, the New York Senate passed the resolution in favor of the amendment by a vote of 49–14, then the New York Assembly also adopted it by a vote of 98–43.
This inspired her to create her first model for the test, similar to the tests she observed in her lab.
In the United States, 1 percent of 1,900 women questioned in 1987 listed rape or incest as the reason for having an abortion; of these, 95 percent named other reasons as well.
In 2016 they welcomed the Irish government's new guidelines on bereavement counselling for grieving parents.
They also concluded abortion is safer in countries where it is legal, but dangerous in countries where it is outlawed and performed clandestinely.
Alsalem's paper discussed the definition of "woman" in international human rights treaties, particularly CEDAW.
This amounts to over 10% of all criminal trials during this period in which a woman was sentenced to death.
1982) is an Indian American whose conviction and sentence to 20 years in prison in Indiana for feticide and child neglect was overturned by the Indiana Court of Appeals.
Moreover, the RFSU carries an extensive international work with similar organizations in other countries.
His responsibilities to the child begin at conception and can only be terminated with the female's decision to abort the fetus or with the mother's decision to give the child up for adoption.
While several parties have been critical of the final draft excluding the word "abortion" in its text, other advocates argue doing so helps to preserve rights of woman for all pregnancy outcomes, as well as for in vitro fertilization and contraception.
Medically, abortion means loss of the fetus, for any reason, before it is able to survive outside the womb.
Organisations such as Planned Parenthood and Marie Stopes International have chosen to lose federal funding when it is in effect.
Polling Results By congressional district "Yes" won two of three congressional districts, with "No" winning the remaining one, which elected a Republican.
Hollingsworth) is a ruling by the Superior Court of New Jersey, Hudson County Vicinage, and is the first precedent regarding gestational surrogacy in New Jersey.
However, between 1936 and 1955, abortion in the Soviet Union was highly restricted due to medical concerns and its impact on population growth.
She was hesitant to come forward because the article was discussing the modern version of the pregnancy test, but she emailed the author of the article.
Other dictionaries "The deliberate termination of a pregnancy, usually before the embryo or fetus is capable of independent life." "A term that, in philosophy, theology, and social debates, often means the deliberate termination of pregnancy before the fetus is able to survive outside the uterus.
DKT International, a major provider of such products, ran low on its stock after manufacturing disruptions in Asia.
Among women seeking abortions in Northern China, 2.1% reported that they were being forced to have an abortion by their partner.
She was told she would need to wait for two years before the implantation of the embryos in her uterus.
More generally they mention research finding that at least one-third of males "admit they would rape under specific conditions" and that other surveys find that many men state having coercive sexual fantasies.
Other activities potentially subject to waiting periods include marriage, divorce, abortion access for women, and merger proceedings.
The far-reaching consequences of climate change on SRHRs have been the subject of research in Uganda, Kenya, Malawi, Mozambique, and the Sahel.
Lisa Webster, an editor and religion scholar, joined Evan as co-editor just before the magazine's launch in February 2008.
"Mooncalf" is used as a derogatory term indicating someone is a dullard, fool, or otherwise not particularly bright or sharp.
If parents litigate a divorce case without raising the issue of paternity, in most states they will be barred from disputing the husband's paternity in a later court proceeding.
This method can cause infection or injury to internal organs (for example perforating the uterus or intestines), resulting in death.
Ancient Greece and Rome Debates around abortion, pregnancy and the beginning of life were common in Greek and Roman philosophy and medicine, and would have also been known in cultures which have not left a written record.
O’Neill Professor of Constitutional Law and Global Health Policy at Georgetown University Law Center.
RD won three Religion Newswriters Association (RNA) awards for Excellence in Religion Commentary and Analysis, a Wilbur Award for outstanding work by secular communicators on religion, and a Science for Religion Writers award from the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS).
They may also help the rape victim understand why the rape victim's partner may see the rape as a form of infidelity.
Shakespeare, for instance, used the term to describe Caliban, the deformed servant of Prospero, in The Tempest.
The World Health Organization (WHO) has endorsed two regimens for abortion up to 12 weeks of pregnancy using misoprostol: a standardized regimen of mifepristone and misoprostol and a regimen of misoprostol alone.
Polling Results By congressional district Despite losing the state, "Yes" won two of three congressional districts, which both elected Republicans.
Clayton, who ruled that, as Palmer's actions were "in the public good," no charges could be held against her.
These included Montreal Tramways Co v Léveillé (1933), in which a child successfully sued for club feet, and the Court had said that otherwise there would be no way to achieve justice for the child.
Three days into her court-ordered confinement, Burton underwent an emergency C-section, at which time the fetus was found to be dead.
Drawing on William Staunford, Edward Coke first formulated the born alive rule in Institutes of the Lawes of England, drawing on the established definition of Murder in English law that the victim be "a reasonable creature in rerum natura.
The league also maintained some overlap with the women's rights movement, which was concerned with birth control.
This satisfied the requirement that the involved people, namely Cynthia Dobson and her fetus, were closely related.
In addition to associating plots, rejecting false alarms and estimating heading and speed, the radar tracker also acts as a filter, in which errors in the individual radar measurements are smoothed out.
NANU types Forecast outages FCSTDV, or Forecast Delta-V, gives scheduled outage times for Delta-V maneuvers.
The SWEPOS system permits mobile GPS/GLONASS receivers to receive detailed positioning data down to the centimeter level.
The first Bluetooth RTLS provider in the medical industry is supporting this in their article: "The fact that RFID cannot be used near sensitive equipment should in itself be a red flag to the medical industry".
The image of deformable objects can be covered with a mesh, the motion of the object is defined by the position of the nodes of the mesh.
SAASM does not provide any additional anti-jam capability, however, the higher data (chipping) rate of P(Y) code can provide a higher processing gain which will provide better tracking performance in a jamming environment.
This adds visual context to events, which is used for proactive driver coaching using AI, accident reconstruction, and insurance claim validation.
Navigation systems employ similar, but slightly more complex, methods than surveillance systems to obtain delay differences.
The defendant appealed to the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals, which found the warrantless data collection had violated his constitutional rights under the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution, but declined to order a new trial because the evidence was collected in good faith.
The SWEPOS network of reference stations began as a co-operation between the National Land Survey of Sweden and Onsala Space Observatory.
On the Cross Island Parkway, Palmetto Pass users previously received a 50-cent discount at the main toll booth (paying .75 cents compared to the $1.25 cash toll rate).
Design The Sniper is a single, lightweight targeting pod with much lower aerodynamic drag than the systems it replaces.
Consequently, by determining whether a direct signal is being received from a given satellite, the user can localize their position to within one of two areas of the street.
It features VoicePins for personalized location annotations, an 'Explore Near Me' function for discovering nearby points of interest, comprehensive Google_TalkBack support, and a feedback-enabled compass.
Active 10 BIKE (the device, a bike mount and a power pack including adaptors and a 2700mAh lithium polymer rechargeable battery.
Vonage has encouraged its customers to register the locations from which their 911 calls could be dialed with the local public safety answering point.
In September 2020, The Times reported that trials were being conducted at six sites in the UK, including Epping Forest in Essex.
NextBus is developed by Nextbus Information Systems, Inc., a subsidiary of Cubic Transportation Systems, for buses, trams, light rail operations and other public transport vehicles.
Moreover, the platform was also able to compensate most of known issues of local magnetic field variability.
For smaller species, including social insects, barcode-based tracking systems allow automated identification and monitoring of hundreds of individuals simultaneously.
The ICARUS project currently implements 5 g radio transmitters that include a GPS receiver, but has plans to use devices weighing less than 1 g in the future.
Auracast Auracast implements public audio broadcasting services, allowing multiple receivers to connect to a single audio transmitter without going through the Bluetooth device pairing first.
FCSTEXTD, or Forecast Extension, extends the scheduled outage time "Until Further Notice"; references the original NANU.
Windows-compatible video devices like webcams are supported, as well as special Nintendo Wii Remote camera, iPhone Truedepth camera with Eyeware Beam, and NaturalPoint cameras (TrackIR, SmartNav and OptiTrack).
This elevated flight path allows the missile to capitalize on reduced air resistance at higher altitudes, increasing both the missile's potential energy and the kinetic energy during terminal guidance, thus enabling greater range and probability of kill.
The shadow matching positioning principle was first proposed and the name 'shadow matching' was first introduced by Paul D Groves.
The company's business network consists of more than 2,500 partners, including telematic service providers and systems integrators, in over 150 countries.
TOA from two base stations will narrow a position to a position circle; data from a third base station is required to resolve the precise position to a single point.
Modulation codes Coarse/acquisition code The C/A PRN codes are Gold codes with a period of 1023 chips transmitted at 1.023 Mchip/s, causing the code to repeat every 1 millisecond.
Android and iOS devices also have very different battery impact depending on type of scans and the number of Bluetooth Low Energy devices in the vicinity.
The differences between the first and second generation systems are as follows: Services Lexus Link is offered in the continental U.S.
In response, LocationSmart took the vulnerable service offline and claimed the company "takes privacy seriously".
The functionality was "opt in" and had to be enabled by users due to the sensitivity of location data.
Satellite During the use of Starlink satellites in the Russo-Ukrainian War, SpaceX used geofencing to limit the use of Starlink Internet services outside the borders of Ukraine such as in Russian-occupied territories in Ukraine.
The Driveway app was the first telematics solution in the auto insurance industry to offer automatic trip detection, to function with no hardware dependency, and to bear no significant impact on the performance or battery life of user smartphones.
Disadvantages In comparison to sea-skimming trajectories, lofting lacks radar-avoidance characteristics, making it susceptible to detection by its target and potential interceptors.
That is, although each input is biased in some way, the observation from different dimensions and angles are biased in different ways.
Almanac data can be received from any of the GPS satellites and is considered valid for up to 180 days.
History Based in Thalwil, Switzerland, u-blox is a spin-off of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich (ETH) and was founded in 1997.
Starting from 2000, the government under President Vladimir Putin made the restoration of GLONASS a top priority; its funding was doubled and after a lull of several years, launches were restarted again.
This technology is the foundation for a wide range of applications, from consumer services for finding lost or stolen devices to enterprise platforms for fleet management and employee monitoring.
Background Cellular telephones make optimal use of limited radio spectrum and their short transmission range, due to low power, by always connecting to a radio antenna at a nearby facility, known as a cell site.
As of October 2017, L2C was being broadcast from 19 satellites; by June 2022 there were 24 satellites broadcasting this signal.
It differs from the true range between the vehicle and station i {\displaystyle i} by an offset, or bias, which is the same for every signal.
Deployment of the next generation military signal for GPS, called M-code, commenced with the launch of IIR-M and IIF satellites, beginning in 2005.
The higher-level protocol format is based on SAE J1939, with specific messages for the marine environment.
Following the mishap, Roscosmos activated two reserve satellites and decided to make the first GLONASS-K satellite, to be launched in February 2011, part of the operational constellation instead of mainly for testing as was originally planned.
In early 2018, SPOT launched the SPOT X, a two-way satellite messaging device with GPS location tracking, navigational capabilities, social media linking and direct communication options to emergency services.
Bluetooth Low Energy uses the same 2.4 GHz radio frequencies as classic Bluetooth, which allows dual-mode devices to share a single radio antenna, but uses a simpler modulation system.
It can be sent to advertisers and other third parties which can use this unique ID to track the user's movements, habits, and usages of applications.
The database is also used to determine the strength of available wireless connections and which mobile phone service providers have coverage in specific geographic locations.
Uses Chirp spread spectrum was originally designed to compete with ultra-wideband for precision ranging and low-rate wireless networks in the 2.45 GHz band.
The final degree in Telematics Engineering has the title of Ingeniería Civil Telemática (with the suffix of Civil).
The service is provided for an additional charge but recently free service has been introduced as the cost of the associated technology has been decreasing.
The core technology, which relies on transmitting location and status data, was originally developed and licensed by Tadiran from Teletrac USA.
Developments The first GAGAN transmitter was integrated into the GSAT-4 geostationary satellite, and had a goal of being operational in 2008.
In February 2023, Kurt Knutsson of CyberGuy Report at Fox News included Spot X in a review of "the 5 best" personal locator beacons (PLB).
Geotagging can tell users the location of the content of a given picture or other media or the point of view, and conversely on some media platforms show media relevant to a given location.
However, it is computationally very intensive and is currently unsuitable for most real-world, real-time applications.
It was originally administered by the South Carolina Department of Transportation and is now operated by the Connector 2000 Association, which operates the Southern Connector.
The United States Space Force awarded the US$96 million Contingency Operations contract in February 2016.
The resulting statistics are used to generate the random sample of particles for the next iteration.
The switching center automatically assigns a unique identifier to each cellular 911 call, known as a "pseudo ANI".
It is virtually identical in appearance to the Active 10 but is distinguishable by its orange buttons.
The C/A code is transmitted on the L1 frequency as a 1.023 MHz signal using a bi-phase shift keying (BPSK) modulation technique.
SMS Establishing points of interest in real-time and transmitting them via GSM cellular telephone networks using the Short Message Service (SMS) is referred to as Gps2sms.
It consists of such steps as modelling, requirements specification, and verification into a single efficient process.
(日本無線株式会社, Nihon Musen Kabushiki-gaisha) is a Japanese company specialising in the field of wireless electronics for the communications industry.
Licensing The OpenCelliD database is published under a Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International License open content license with the intention of promoting free use and redistribution of the data.
The vulnerability allowed attackers to easily extract personal information of Ituran customers, including home addresses, phone numbers and car registration numbers.
Integration of Inertial Navigation System and Global Positioning System Using Kalman Filtering (PDF).
FreeTrack is an optical motion tracking application for Microsoft Windows, released under the GNU General Public License, that can be used with common inexpensive cameras.
SAASM systems can be updated with an encrypted "Black Key" that may be transmitted over unclassified channels.
Demodulation and decoding A GPS receiver processes the GPS signals received on its antenna to determine position, velocity and/or timing.
Gbanga Famiglia (2010) April 2010 saw the launch of Gbanga Famiglia, a game in which players can join or start their own Mafia Famiglia to take-over virtual establishments they discover whilst walking around the city.
Moiré Phase Tracking (MPT) is 3D tracking technology developed by Metria Innovation based on optical moiré patterns.
As of August 21, 2017 the database contained 35.5 million unique cells and 2.1 billion unique measurements.
Palmetto Pass is now used on one toll road: the Southern Connector (Interstate 185) in Greenville County.
22] The 11th Circuit held "that cell site location information is within the subscriber's reasonable expectation of privacy.
A few systems integrate (or communicate) with mobile phones for hands-free talking and SMS messaging (i.e., using Bluetooth or Wi-Fi).
TDS was successfully completed during 2007 by installing eight Indian Reference Stations (INRESs) at eight Indian airports and linked to the Master Control Centre (MCC) located near Bengaluru.
Since the first-generation Lexus Link system uses analog cellular technology and cannot be modified to digital operation, Lexus offered to disable the Lexus Link system and remove the button panel from the vehicle at no cost for owners of model year 2001–2004 vehicles.
It should not be confused with the field of view (FOV), which is the angular cone perceivable by the sensor at a particular time instant.
Precast parking structures As multi-storey car parks have become more common since the middle of the twentieth century, many constructions of such structures have been using precast concrete to reduce the construction time.
Devices which are not "NMEA 2000 Certified" may not legally use the NMEA 2000 trademark in their advertising.
Like other beacon technology, beacons with Eddystone can give devices a better indication of what objects and places are around them.
A Notice Advisory to Navstar Users (NANU) is a message issued jointly by the United States Coast Guard and the GPS Operations Center at Schriever Space Force Base in Colorado.
The reason given was that the program's problems had "proved insurmountable", and that the projected cost had grown to nearly the cost of the fleet of GPS satellites themselves, at nearly $8 billion.
These times are then converted to a 'wait time' and made available via the NextBus website and electronic signs at bus stops and tram stops as well as cell phones, and other wireless devices via the Internet.
Theoretical basis This technology is based on the reflected signal modulation caused by movements of the human body and internal organs.
In 2014 the team founded GiPStech - as academic spin-off of Università della Calabria - to complete the R&D and commercialize the platform.
The yet to be developed game technology is described to be an evolution of the previously 2-dimensional games that used flat material only.
Raymarine SeaTalk 2, Raymarine SeaTalkNG, Simrad Simnet, and Furuno CAN are rebranded implementations of NMEA 2000, though may use physical connectors different from the standardised DeviceNet 5-pin A-coded M12 screw connector, all of which are electrically compatible and can be directly connected.
In 2017, Gurtam launched Flespi, a specialized backend platform-as-a-service (PaaS) for a broader range of IoT and telematics applications beyond traditional fleet management.
With the rise of smart phones, package tracking mobile apps were able to send tracking info to customers' cell phones.
Microsoft uses a similar technology, also called Advertising ID, that is generated for each device and user.
Locating in relative coordinates ID signals from a tag are received by a multiplicity of readers in a sensory network, and a position is estimated using one or more locating algorithms, such as trilateration, multilateration, or triangulation.
It was established by Presidential Directive in 2004 and supersedes the Interagency GPS Executive Board.
Beginning with its iOS 14.5 software update, Apple will allow its users to choose whether to allow apps to track their IDFA.
1996–1999: Economic crisis and fall into disrepair Since the first generation satellites operated for 3 years each, to keep the system at full capacity, two launches per year would have been necessary to maintain the full network of 24 satellites.
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, factory output and transportation demand fell, bringing overall demand for oil down as well, and causing oil prices to fall.
Multisectoral:This includes undertakings that cut across more than one sector and often supports the activities of Social Investment Funds, whose projects are usually demand-driven at a local level and have a strong element of community participation.
Wells that have been used as injectors or have been subject to fracking operation are more likely to develop leaks because the injected substances can create channels that permit uncontrolled flow outside the casing.
See also Psychology of previous investment Capital expenditure References Oilfield Glossary EPA Well Abandonment Cost Form
Saudi Arabia and other oil-exploiting countries of the region received up to 50% of the profits in cooperation with American oil companies at the same time.
Agriculture and ranching grew stronger as the rapidly expanding population created more demand for their produce.
In the absence of external shocks, an economic equilibrium relationship between the two should exist.
Rasau is part of an 11-kilometre road connecting Sungai Teraban and Sungai Tujoh, which facilitates easier travel between Brunei and Sarawak's Miri Division, including Miri and surrounding areas.
For light oils and rich gas condensates the ultimate GOR of export streams is strongly influenced by the efficiency with which the processing plant strips liquids from the gas phase.
A new intraday record high of $78.40 was set on July 14, 2006, prompted by the firing of at least six missiles by North Korea on July 4–5, 2006, and escalating Middle East violence.
As Carlos entered the conference room and fired shots into the ceiling, the delegates ducked under the table.
The gas/oil ratio (GOR) is the ratio of the volume of gas ("scf") that comes out of solution to the volume of oil — at standard conditions.
Family and education Ghafour Youssefiani born on March 19, 1928, was the first child of Mirza Ahmad Youssefiani, born in Saqqez, Iran, into a Saqqez-based Iranian family of Kurdish heritage.
September–October 2000: 30 million barrels (4,800,000 m3) in response to a concern over low distillate levels in the northeastern U.S.
In 2024, the revenue generated by SOFAZ from the sale of oil from the ACG field was US$ 5,725 billion.
Poorer members have pushed for production cuts from fellow members, to increase the price of oil and thus their own revenues.
Such behaviour, predicted by all canonical industry / market pricing models (perfect competition, monopoly) is called symmetric price transmission.
Wanda Jablonski (23 August 1920, in Czechoslovakia – 28 January 1992, in New York City) was an American journalist who covered the global petroleum industry.
22% of stations in London and the South-East remained without fuel and 40% were lacking one of the main fuel grades.
The interrupter is based on a formula that will determine whether the market prices of fuels have changed enough to warrant a price change .
Katz, Praeger/Greenwood, ISBN 0-275-93380-6 External links Energy Information Administration: Petroleum Chronology of Events 1970–2000 174 Years of Historic Houston: Oil Glut and the Economic Downturn
Atlanta-based ICE operates four regulated futures exchanges, two over-the-counter markets and five clearing houses globally.
An annual rate of decline of 5.1% in 800 of the world's largest oil fields was reported by the International Energy Agency in their World Energy Outlook 2008.
This causes Export Land's net exports over the five-year period to fall from 1 mbpd to 0.3 mbpd, a decrease of 70% -- resulting from a combination of increasing domestic consumption in Export Land and a 25% drop in production.
As the figures represent a single month rather than full-year averages, they may be subject to short-term fluctuations caused by factors such as maintenance shutdowns, seasonal variations, or geopolitical events.
They contend that the peak of industrial civilization did not occur in 1979, but rather after 2004, with the duration of industrial civilization projected to extend from 1950 to 2044.
As part of the Russo-Ukrainian war, Ukrainian drones had occasionally targeted Russian refineries since 2024, causing expense and inconvenience.
Eventually, however, the level of export decline outpaces the increasing oil price, slowing domestic growth.
Lower quality of life makes it more difficult to attract the additional population needed to support growth of services.
Treasury securities and in other financial markets of the major industrial economies, often directed discreetly by government entities now known as sovereign wealth funds.
Johnston reportedly promised significant donations to the Liberal Party and an attempt was made to secure a funding grant from the government's A$500-million Low Emission Technology Demonstration Fund.
Due to the risk of confusion The Society of Petroleum Engineers recommends in their style guide that abbreviations or prefixes M or MM are not used for barrels of oil or barrel of oil equivalent, but rather that thousands, millions or billions are spelled out.
Consumer price inflation has declined from the 38.8% experienced in 1994 following the CFA franc devaluation, to 7.8% in 1998, and 1.0% in 1999, according to BEAC data.
Overview The Platts assessment process determines the value of physical commodities 15–30 days forward for many oil products loading in Singapore.
Faisal felt his efforts on behalf the United States were not being appreciated in Washington, which increased his fury at Nixon.
Viable mitigation options exist on both the supply and demand sides, but to have substantial impact, they must be initiated more than a decade in advance of peaking.
Since the invention of agriculture, humans have increasingly used exogenous sources of energy to multiply human muscle power.
Critics of the steady-state economy usually object to it by arguing that resource decoupling, technological development, and the operation of market mechanisms are capable of overcoming resource scarcity, pollution, or population overshoot.
Such moves strain the confidence of international oil companies in forming partnerships with Russia.
The oil depletion allowance in American (US) tax law is a tax break claimable by anyone with an economic interest in a mineral deposit or standing timber.
This causes $2 trillion USD of stock to become worthless, and oil workers are dismissed as the industry collapses.
Gas Initially In Place = Gross Rock Volume * Net/Gross * Porosity * average initial Gas Saturation / Formation Volume Factor == References ==
All those multiples are commonly combined with barrel of oil equivalent from the level of individual production units output per day to level of petroleum reserves.
The company also operates 105 "Ahlain" convenience stores across the country, which include everyday products, restaurants and cafés.
Defense industry In 2007 the International Institute for Strategic Studies estimated Iran's defense budget at $7.31 billion, equivalent to 2.6% of GDP or $102 per capita, ranking it 25th internationally.
Background The summit was announced during the first meeting of the High-Level Ad Hoc Group for the 3rd Gas Summit on 20 May 2015.
Reuters reported that "If Saudi Arabia failed to rein in output, US senators called on the White House to impose sanctions on Riyadh, pull out US troops from the kingdom and impose import tariffs on Saudi oil." OPEC expected demand to fall by 6.8 million bpd, later to reduce by up to 35 million bpd.
there is such a thing as absolute scarcity, and there is such a thing as purely relative and trivial wants".
(The data below does not seem to include shale oil and other unconventional sources of oil such as tar sands.
As of February 2024, oil production has slowed, with plans to add one or two more drilling rigs in the area in 2024.
[1] Professional experience In 1958, as a member of Abadan Refinery's Center for Petrochemical Engineering, he initiated a number of innovations, including an innovative formulation for the production of JP4 (Jet Fuel), which until 1995 was used world-wide to fuel fighter jets.
According to CNET, that information included "users' latitude, longitude, IP address, and time stamps on the data collected," which sparked concern in the media and between its users.
After appearing before an all party committee on petroleum pricing, the Nova Scotia legislature passed Bill 79 The Nova Scotia Petroleum Products Pricing Act.
China, with a currency constantly growing on market relevance, attempted to create a dollar alternative.
Most of the world's largest oilfields are located in the Middle East, but there are also super giant (5 billion bbls) oilfields in Brazil, Mexico, Venezuela, Kazakhstan, and Russia.
Olivine, composed of Forsterite and Fayalite metamorphoses into serpentine, magnetite and silica by the following reactions, with silica from fayalite decomposition (reaction 1a) feeding into the forsterite reaction (1b).
In June 2017, the People's Bank of China and the Central Bank of Russia signed a memorandum to facilitate the exchange of crude oil using yuans.
On 26 March 2018, the Chinese government issued the first long term oil trading contracts denominated in petroyuans.
The EU implemented a bloc-wide carbon tax; many nations increased gas taxes and/or passed a carbon tax.
The volumes in the table represent crude oil and lease condensate (light hydrocarbons recovered from natural gas at or near the wellhead).
Subsequent to serving out his term, he lived in Iran and the United States, and died at the age of 90, from Alzheimer, in Tehran, Iran.
Projections made at the time the Legacy Fund was established estimate that it will be worth between $75 and $105 billion by 2039; between $149 and $240 billion by 2050; and between $240 and $450 billion by 2060.
Alternatively, critics argue that the international monetary system, reliant on petrodollar recycling, exploits developing nations while advancing American imperialism.
The traditional significant differences in the setup and density of settlements, share of suburbs, use of public transport, and consumer behavior have been widening.
By 5 March 2015, as oil production outpaces oil demand by 1.5 million bpd, storage capacity globally is dwindling.
In 1999, the Equato-Guinean Government began attempting to meet IMF-imposed requirements, maintaining contact with IMF and the World Bank representatives.
Depleted gas or oil fields are the cheapest to commission, as they take advantage of existing wells, internal distribution systems, and pipeline connections.
Rystad reported that the average breakeven price for oil from the oil sands was US$83 in 2019, making it the most expensive to produce, compared to all other "significant oil producing regions" in the world.
Industrialized nations are dependent on oil, and efforts to restrict the supply of oil would have an adverse effect on the economies of oil producers.
Panic buying Trigger Multiple sources have stated that an industry task force meeting took place on Zoom on 16 September where BP fuel stock levels were discussed.
SOFAZ invests internationally and holds assets in more than 60 countries, including listed securities as well as infrastructure and renewable energy projects.
In response, US President Joe Biden vowed "consequences" and said the US government would "re-evaluate" the longstanding U.S.
Dedicated servers The game features dedicated servers similar to Battlefield 2: Modern Combat, as well as client-side hosting found in the majority of Live-enabled Xbox 360 games.
In a series of speeches in December 1973, the Prime Minister Edward Heath warned that because of the oil shock that the British economy was going into recession and the British people should expect economic austerity.
Though oil production can be slowed, it can not be stopped completely, and even the lowest possible production level resulted in greater supply than demand.
The Stone Age came to an end, not because we had a lack of stones, and the oil age will come to an end not because we have a lack of oil.
In 2019, the Financial Times reported that the plans to float state-owned oil beneficiary Saudi Aramco were stranded between the company's attachment to the oil ministry and the desire to meet international standards.
Indonesia has already shifted from oil exporter to oil importer while Egypt is hovering on the brink.
Since the Philippines imports 98% of its oil from the Middle East, the closure endangers the country's energy supply, which is heavily dependent on oil.
In the cartoons, the long hooked Semitic noses that had traditionally been featured in anti-Jewish cartoons were applied to the Arab sheiks as a way to illustrate their supposed greed.
He did not make a distinction between "conventional" and "non-conventional" oil produced by fracturing, aka tight oil, which has continued further growth in oil production.
The game ends after the final mission entitled "History Repeats," upon bringing the Russian military to a collapse and cutting the nation off from the rest of the world by destroying a satellite uplink.
The glut began in the early 1980s as a result of slowed economic activity in industrial countries due to the crises of the 1970s, especially in 1973 and 1979, and the energy conservation (including replacing oil in some applications with other fuels) spurred by high fuel prices.
The action was commenced by the company's own lawyers over a debt of A$70,000 and joined by mining magnate Ross Graham, who had lent Johnston A$25 million.
North Carolina governor Pat McCrory, Tennessee governor Bill Haslam and South Carolina governor Nikki Haley all declared states of emergency, allowing fuel tankers to work longer hours to maintain the availability of gasoline.
After the Shah's return to Iran, negotiations between the National Oil Company and representatives of the consortium to prepare a new contract began in early 1973.
South Korea South Korea is the third largest importer of LNG and is building its 6th LNG strategic natural gas reserve facility.
In the same year, GasBuddy was involved in a lawsuit with Reveal Mobile, a location-based marketing company, over the sale of user location data.
Because proven reserves include oil recoverable under current economic conditions, nations may see large increases in proven reserves when known, but previously uneconomic deposits become economic to develop.
2021: risQ In December 2021, ICE acquired risQ, a geospatial and climate data modeling start-up company, after announcing partnerships with the company to develop climate risk and ESG analytics models for municipal bond markets in January 2020 and mortgage-backed securities markets in March 2021.
Impact The 1986 oil price collapse benefited oil-consuming countries such as the United States and Japan, countries in Europe, and developing nations but represented a serious loss in revenue for oil-producing countries in Northern Europe, the Soviet Union, and OPEC.
The government announced in 2012 that it would reassess exactly how much iron ore the Belinga site contains before awarding the concession to a mining company, most likely to be China's CMEC, which temporarily secured the rights to the ore in 2007.
The largest oil field in the world, Saudi Arabia's Ghawar field, produces light crude oils ranging from 33° API (860 kg/m3) to 40° API (825 kg/m3) U.S.
A 2007 study found that as of May 2004, there was roughly 8 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of commercial gas storage capacity in the US, with about 4 Tcf needed to always remain in storage as base gas.
The differences sometimes result from different classes of oil included and sometimes result from different definitions of proven.
wrote, "Radiocarbon evidence rules out seawater bicarbonate as the carbon source for FTT reactions, suggesting that a mantle-derived inorganic carbon source is leached from the host rocks.
The next $30 million is allocated for grants and loans aimed at cutting carbon output in the energy sector.
However, monthly data can also provide a more up-to-date snapshot of current production trends, particularly for countries experiencing rapid changes in output, such as those expanding or winding down production.
Despite having substantial gas reserves in joint fields, many remain undeveloped due to lack of investment.
By October, some garage owners believed the remaining supply issues were no longer linked to panic buying.
Through persistent, joyous exposure to Torah study and observance of mitzvot, the nefesh habehamit can be trained to desire spiritual and divine pleasures.
and the rest of creation (experience) individually pleasure or displeasure, pain, great terror, and unhappiness" (1.1.6).
Respiration is the process by which breathing helps to cool and moderate the inner vital heat (thermotēta psychikēs) held in the heart.
Epiphenomenalism posits that physical events generate mental events, but mental events themselves lack causal power—they cannot influence physical events or even other mental phenomena.
After this he got up from the cricket and pronounced the ease and rest of the soul departed, for which he would pawn his own soul.
"De la migrance ä l'errance ou les Italiens entre «La Mort du Grand Pan» et «La Procession des Morts»".
Such past impressions form a kind of sheath between the Over-soul and its true identity, as they give rise to the tendency of identification with the gross differentiated body.
Joseph Smith, founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, believed that "there is no such thing as immaterial matter.
Lapis manalis When a new town was founded, a round hole would be dug and a stone called a lapis manalis would be placed in the foundations, representing a gate to the underworld.
Christian philosophy In his Introduction to the 1964 book Meditations, the Anglican priest Maxwell Staniforth discussed the profound impact of Stoicism on Christianity.
Peter Lombard's creando infundit animas Deus et infundendo creat ("in creating, God pours in the soul, and in pouring, He creates") was an accepted formula.
The kind of mental activity conducted in the Phren involves what 20th and 21 Century Western thinkers consider both feeling and thinking; scholars have remarked that Ancient Greeks located this activity in the torso as opposed to the head.
He saw all attainment of knowledge not as acquiring new information, but as remembering previously known information.
On the other hand, some Jews object to using the phrase for Jews, considering it to reflect a Christian perspective.
He relates Socrates' ideas about Thymos and desire to how people want to be recognized within their government.
History and cosmology Jon Atack, whose book A Piece of Blue Sky details how he reached Operating Thetan level V before leaving Scientology, describes Hubbard's doctrines about thetans: "Thetans are all-knowing beings, and became bored because there were no surprises.
So that if ever we find these contradictions in the functions of the mind we shall know that it was not the same thing functioning but a plurality." (This is an example of Plato's principle of non-contradiction).
See also Scales of justice (symbol) Libra Particular judgment Punishment of the Grave References Further reading Media related to Weighing of souls at Wikimedia Commons Brandon, S.
Believing themselves to be travelling into other realms, shamans either descend into an underworld (cf.
In Nazi ideology, the race-soul, race soul or racial soul (German: Rassenseele) is a mystical racial psyche greater than any individual member of the German race.
The pneuma in its most rarefied and fiery form serves as the animal soul (psychê); it pervades the organism, governs its movements, and endows it with powers of perception and reproduction.
In the same radio programme, Presbyterian Ken Newell disagreed that people are praying for the dead when they use the phrase.
(In Sanskrit the word param means "supreme" and atman means "soul"; thus Paramatman literally means "Supreme-Soul".) The term is used frequently in discussion of Eastern metaphysics and has also entered western vernacular.
The breakthrough to the divinity at the ground of the soul Eckhart posits that the goal should not be to stop at the concept of God, but rather to "break through" to the Godhead.
Before a person could be judged by the gods, they had to be "awakened" through a series of funerary rites designed to reanimate their mummified remains in the afterlife.
Contrary to Pelagius' view of human nature, Augustine of Hippo taught that because of original sin, the human nature we receive at birth has been "wounded, hurt, damaged, destroyed" and that, therefore, man is incapable of doing or desiring good apart from the sovereignty of grace.
In Ireland on 16 March 1831 Baron Pennefather in Limerick stated that pregnancy was not alone sufficient for a delay but there had to be quickening.
See also References External links "The Over-Soul" at Google Books "The Over-Soul" at Emerson Central.
Accordingly, the Hebrew word נֶ֫פֶשׁ‎ (nephesh)—though translated as "soul" in some older English-language Bibles—actually has a meaning closer to "living being".
As Plotinus himself put it:Therefore ‘it cannot be said’ or ‘written’, he says [Plato, Letter 7, 341c], but we speak and write, sending on to it and wakening from words [or explanations] towards contemplation, as if showing the way to him who wishes to see something.
By the spirit Adam knows right from wrong and guidance from error and he camouflages and learns and manages all of his affairs.
Jainism Jains practise pratikraman (Sanskrit "introspection"), a process of repentance of wrongdoings during their daily life, and remind themselves to refrain from doing so again.
The air is full of an innumerable multitude of peoples [Sylphs] of human figure, a little proud in appearance, but docile indeed: great lovers of the sciences, subtle, officious to the wise, and enemies of the foolish and ignorant.
See also Druze Gilgul Saṃsāra Yazidis Yaʽfuriyya Shia Zalmoxis References External links The Columbia Encyclopedia: Transmigration of souls or Metempsychosis Sturt, Henry (1911).
Immanuel Kant added that, if they are understood too narrowly, introspective experiments are impossible.
Whatever is already a complete individual substance cannot enter into composition with another to form a new substantial whole without undergoing corruption.
Relation to human anatomy The Tanya states that the nefesh ha'elokit resides primarily in the brain, from which it spreads throughout the body.
Any system that creates political inequality is necessarily feeding the megalothymia of some members while denying it to others.
1650–1716) includes the following description of the sin-eating ritual in his Letter on Leland's Collectanea, i.
Fearing their power, Zeus split them in half, condemning each to spend their lives searching for its missing counterpart (the term used by Plato is τὸ ἕτερον ἥμισυ, tó héteros ímisy, lit.
As it occurs in the Faerie Queene of Spenser, "heavenly light" is associated with knights in full armour, and with the purity of the human soul, picking up on Christian mysticism's view of the soul illuminating the body.
However, whether the rational soul is infused into the organism at conception, as the modern opinion holds, or some weeks subsequently, as medieval scholastics supposed, is an open question to some theologians.
The natural spirit originated from the food and the drink, the origin of the vital spirit was from the atmospheric air .
The concept of an immaterial and immortal soul—distinct from the corporeal body—did not appear in Judaism before the Babylonian exile, instead developing as a result of interaction with Persian and Hellenistic philosophies.
"good thumos") to refer to a condition in which the soul lives calmly and steadily, being disturbed by no fear, superstition, or other passions.
It propounds a duality of five kinds, the most fundamental of which is that between jivas and Ishvara.
It mostly refers to a march of ghosts, phantoms or souls, sometimes commanded by a creature related to the Otherworld, the Underworld or the Afterlife.
Islam In Islam, all souls are believed to have been created in adult form before earthly life at the same time the God created the father of mankind, Adam.
Jivas are bound by maya, which hides their true self, which is characterized by eternal existence, consciousness and bliss.
In its highest form, pneuma constitutes the human soul (psychê), which is a fragment of the pneuma that is the soul of the Deity.
Influence of Jainism on Manichaeism Fynes (1996) argues that Jain ideas about the existence of plant souls were transmitted from Western Kshatrapa territories to Mesopotamia and then integrated into Manichaean beliefs.
Around 300 BC, Praxagoras discovered the distinction between the arteries and the veins, although close studies of vascular anatomy had been ongoing since at least Diogenes of Apollonia.
Ancient Greece In ancient Greece, the festival of Anthesteria was performed to honor and placate the dead, who were thought to walk freely among the streets.
Munslow may have revived the custom after the deaths of three of his children in a week 1870 due to scarlet fever.
In a scene of the Nihon Shoki, kami Ōnamuchi is described in conversation with his own saki-mitama and kushi-mitama.
While he did not explicitly develop a theory of the unconscious, nor include the unconscious as a central element of his psychology, he acknowledged the unconscious dimension of world spirit.
In his soteriological teachings, the soul needs to discard sensual pleasures for the sake of intellectual gratification through spiritual ascension.
According to Ruthenian folklore, Veles lived on a swamp in the centre of Nav, where he sat on a golden throne at the base of the Cosmic Tree, wielding a sword.
It defends Puritan concepts of theocracy and divine providence, in the tradition of the Solyma Nova (1649) of Samuel Gott.
In Bulgarian folklore there exists the character of 12 navias that sucked the blood out of women giving birth, whereas in the Ruthenian Primary Chronicle the navias are presented as a demonic personification of the 1092 plague in Polotsk.
With regard to the embryo in the mother's womb, science itself highlights its autonomy, its capacity for interaction with the mother, the coordination of biological processes, the continuity of development, the growing complexity of the organism.
The weighing of souls (Ancient Greek: psychostasia) is a religious motif in which a person's life is assessed by weighing their soul (or some other part of them) immediately before or after death in order to judge their fate.
While the body's perceptual faculties are deceptive, Plato also argues that the falsehoods that they communicate to the soul can be used to trigger or prompt recollection.
In contrast with various Greek philosophical views, the material body (like the soul) is not seen as inherently evil, but inherently good.
This spiritual matter is also called "intelligence" or the "light of truth." God the Father organized the "intelligence" to make personages or "spirit children," which includes Jesus Christ.
Cultural references In Miguel de Cervantes's Don Quixote the knight has been described as driven by a spirited thymos or anger when his sense of self-worth is denigrated.
For example, the jiva is described as eternal and indestructible in chapter 2, verse 20: न जायते म्रियते वा कदाचिन् नायं भूत्वा भविता वा न भूयः । अजो नित्यः शाश्वतोऽयं पुराणो न हन्यते हन्यमाने शरीरे "The soul is unborn and eternal, everlasting and primeval.
In popular culture Despite its rejection as scientific fact, MacDougall's experiment popularized the idea that the soul has weight, and specifically that it weighs 21 grams.
The main explanation of the mechanism of soul loss is that in order to preserve oneself in an intolerable situation, part of the soul leaves, as continuing to be in these conditions is so uncomfortable that it can lead to complete disintegration.
See also Fairy Classifications of fairies Restless ghost Wild Hunt Santa Compaña References === Bibliography ===
The same work He still does, not in creating what did not exist, but in multiplying what already existed.
In general, the idea of the unconscious spirit suggests that there are deeper aspects of our selves that are not readily accessible to conscious awareness, but which may hold important insights, wisdom, and creative potential.
The gladiatorial games, originally held at funerals, may have been instituted in the honor of the Manes.
Hinduism Some Hindus believe that personhood begins with the reincarnation that happens at conception.
They are scavenging, animalistic creatures that prey on souls and usually prefer to flee from Raziel unless cornered or in a group.
There are many reasons that have made this topic less controversial but the most important ones are the lack of scientific evidences, and the dispersion of ideas.
A Croatian storyteller provided a tale with the motif of the "procesija mrtvih" ("procession of the dead") in the 1970s.
"Thnetopsychism" – A contrasting phrase is thnetopsychism (from Greek thnetos [mortal] + psyche [soul, mind]).
Nekhen (Greek Hierakonpolis) was the Upper Egyptian centre of the worship of the god Horus, whose successors the Egyptian pharaohs were thought to be.
It cannot be matter because the soul is that in virtue of which things have life, and matter is only being in potency.
In Augustine of Hippo's Confessions (4.10), Augustine wrote that while he was a Manichaean, he believed that "a fig-tree wept when it was plucked, and the tree, its mother, shed milky tears".
They thought that logic was indispensable to medicine, and Galen tells us that the Pneumatic school would rather have betrayed their country than renounce their opinions.
They die and are uncomprehending during the time between death and Judgment Day resurrection, also known as the intermediate state.
Or, again, hell is an eternal state, wherein sinners, for the punishment of their sins, want all that good which they may desire for their content, and endure all kinds of evils which they may fear for their torment.
The idea of psychic memory was used by Neoplatonists to demonstrate the celestial and immaterial origins of the soul and to explain how memories of the world-soul could be recalled by everyday human beings.
Historical proponents of the mortality of the soul The mortality of the soul has had a number of advocates throughout the history of both Judaism and Christianity.
MacDougall specifically chose people who were suffering from conditions that caused physical exhaustion, as he needed the patients to remain still when they died to measure them accurately.
Court cases involving ghosts Near-death experiences and out-of-body experiences References External links Mary Roach's website Roach talks about Spook with Stephen Colbert on the Colbert Report
descent into the underworld), an ascent unto the upper world and interactions with other souls and spirits along these both ways (cf.
The Book of Documents used po 魄 as a graphic variant for po 霸 "dark aspect of the moon" – this character usually means ba 霸 "overlord; hegemon".
At the moment of bodily death, the soul is liberated for a short time before it is again taken captive in a different body.
This inborn spirit is used to explain desire (orexis), which is classified as the "cental origin (to meson), which moves by being itself moved." (703a5-6).
The disciples of Hippocrates explained the maintenance of vital heat to be the function of the breath within the organism.
Roman tombstones often included the letters D.M., which stood for Dis Manibus, literally "to the Manes", or figuratively, "to the spirits of the dead", an abbreviation that continued to appear even in Christian inscriptions.
The Phi Theta Kappa honor society took the letter theta for thumos, representing the "aspiration" that they seek in their potential members.
According to the teachings given by the Higher Spirits through various mediums collected and organized by Allan Kardec (1857), he affirms: Spirits temporarily assume a perishable material envelope, the destruction of which, by death, restores them to liberty.
The concept is taken to be of considerable antiquity, and is classified in Stith Thompson's Motif-Index of Folk-Literature as Motif E491, "Procession of the dead".
Anamnesis is the closest that human minds can come to experiencing the freedom of the soul before it is encumbered by matter.
Faculty psychology The secularisation of the Age of Enlightenment produced a faculty psychology of different but inherent mental powers such as intelligence or memory, distinct (as in Aristotelianism) from the acquired habits.
In 2022, the TV series Evil featured a fictional recreation of the experiment in the episode "The Demon of Death".
Tussar silk is considered more textured than cultivated Bombyx or "mulberry" silk, but it has shorter fibres, which makes it less durable.
In 1987, a plant was purchased in Berks County, Pennsylvania but the debt created by the purchase eventually led to the company having to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
In order to receive a permit, one must complete an application and return it to the nearest banding office.
It was calendered and pressed so firmly on the surface that no cotton yarns could be seen, while the back side of the fabric shows all cotton yarns with little silk.
It was unearthed at the archeological site at Çatalhöyük in Turkey and dates to 8000-9000 years ago.
It is grown ornamentally and is a large sturdy plant that may be trained into bowers and enclosures.
Uses Uses for regular glass fiber include mats and fabrics for thermal insulation, electrical insulation, sound insulation, high-strength fabrics or heat- and corrosion-resistant fabrics.
Medici Medici or broder medici is a fine, light-weight wool thread formerly manufactured by DMC Group.
the eggs) of the silk-worm, and these "seeds" being hatched in the spring, and the worms fed with mulberry leaves, they spun their silk, and went through their transformations.
The design of the new Lonja of Valencia was derived from a similar structure in the Lonja of Palma de Majorca, built by the architect Guillem Sagrera in 1448.
Sheets Self-assembly of silk at standing liquid-gas interphases of a solution tough and strong sheets.
Price Khazz is noted as one of the costlier cloths, and it was priced at 16 Tankahs/silver coins (equal to the monthly salary of a soldier in the 14th century).
This is done by allowing twist into a short section of the rolag, and then pulling back, without letting the rolag change position in your hands, until the yarn is the desired thickness.
Woolen (American English) or woollen (Commonwealth English) is a type of yarn made from carded wool.
The Uru people, an indigenous people predating the Inca civilisation, live on Lake Titicaca upon floating islands fashioned from this plant.
References External links ISO 2:1973 Textiles — Designation of the direction of twist in yarns and related products
Over the years, production dropped from 300,000 pounds of yarn at its peak, to 50,000 per week in 2007 and annual revenues dropped from $20 million in 1997 to around $5 million in 2007.
At its peak, it was a constituent of the FT 30 index of leading companies on the London Stock Exchange.
Applications Carbon fiber can have higher cost than other materials which has been one of the limiting factors of adoption.
Clients in the 1960s and 1970s included Burlington Industries and Mohawk Industries, and later military contracts.
The Bangarra Dance Theatre's 2005 production of CLAN incorporated traditional desert string games into one of their performances, creating intricate patterns as they thread themselves through long, elastic strings.
The thick black corded silk ("a kind of taffeta") was used for "scholastic gowns, and for hatbands and scarves".
Lotus weaving was invented by an ethnic Intha woman named Sa Oo in the village of Kyaingkhan in the early 1900s.
This grass is common and is a dominant grass in various prairie and grassland ecosystems in the Great Plains.
Sorona is DuPont de Nemours, Inc.'s brand of Triexta, a subclass of polytrimethylene terephthalate (PTT) named and commercialized in 2000.
Sokuri (Korean: 소쿠리, pronounced [so.kʰu.ɾi]) is a round, rimmed woven basket made of finely-split bamboo.
"The ikat velvet pieces which have been located so far and can be identified as Indian are similar in style to the mashru being woven in western India ...
In 2014, the University of Pennsylvania received a $10 million grant from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences to study the impact of asbestos on the community of Ambler.
Name and discovery Riebeckite was first described in 1888 for an occurrence on Socotra Island, Aden Governorate, Yemen, and named for German explorer Emil Riebeck (1853–1885).
In the South Island, kiekie is more common in higher rainfall areas, reaching its southern limit near the Clarence River in the east and in Fiordland in the west.
They have white, waxy, fleshy spines along their backs, which become more prominent at later instars.
Additionally, the net must be placed at an appropriate height from the hard ground, so that a falling object could not make contact with the ground.
These silkworms live in the wild in forest trees belonging to Terminalia species and Shorea robusta, as well as other food plants such as jamun and oak found in South Asia, eating the leaves of the trees on which they live.
It was used as a sewing thread and for making lace, shoe laces, hat strings, ribbons, lining materials and in the cable industry.
As it falls, it leaves a thread attached by the meniscus to the nozzle as long as the viscosity is in the correct range for fiber formation.
For health reasons, it is recommended that existing fibre-cement products that are in good condition are left undisturbed and possibly encapsulated, to prevent fibre release.
History In 1881, the Keasbey and Mattison (K&M) Company began the manufacture of asbestos-containing material such as insulation and shingles in Ambler.
As the soil-based fungi can easily be carried on boots, clothing, or tools, the wilt spread to the Americas despite years of preventive efforts.
History 1871–1920 The business was founded in 1871 in Rochdale as Turner Brothers by John, Robert and Samuel Turner to manufacture cotton-cloth-based mechanical packing.
Discussions on land usage and wildlife reached the United States Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources in the Subcommittee on Public Lands and Reserved Water, and ultimately the ski resort was not built.
Examples include "Seabrook", named after plantation proprietor William Seabrook, and "Bleak Hall", named after the plantation John Townsend managed.
Thicker monofilaments are typically used for industrial purposes rather than fabric production or decoration.
Fibres created using this method may need encouragement to solidify by removing water from the fibre with chemicals such as (environmentally undesirable) methanol or acetone, and also may require later stretching of the fibre to achieve desirable properties.
When the diameter becomes smaller than 1 micron, the corresponding structures are called fullerene nanowhiskers or fullerene nanotubes.
This means that this species cannot be imported, cultivated, transported, commercialized, planted, or intentionally released into the environment anywhere in the European Union.
Bhagalpur silk The tussar silk-weaving industry in Bhagalpur, more than a century old, has about 30,000 handloom weavers working on some 25,000 handlooms.
Some companies have come to put twin yarns on the market to show off combinations of one regular yarn and novelty yarns in assorted colors or even two different types of novelty yarns.
Organza is distinguished by its crisp hand, stiffness relative to weight, and slippery surface texture.
Davidson imposed his sentence and quoted the Scottish theologian William Barclay: "The Romans had a proverb that money was like sea water.
Olek also makes public statements with their work, such as blanketing a women's homeless shelter in Delhi in 2015 or installing an underwater cozy at the Cancun Underwater Museum.
Propagation Propagation of sisal is generally by using bulbils produced from buds in the flower stalk or by suckers growing around the base of the plant, which are grown in nursery fields until large enough to be transplanted to their final positions.
Sports equipment In 2007, Cellucomp partnered with the American sports equipment company E21 to produce a fly fishing rod made out of Curran.
However, some such pottery, called hair-thermal pottery, is found with similar shape and decoration, dating from the same period as some of the genuine asbestos-containing ceramics, and is discussed below.
barbadense organized by market class Traders in cotton have developed several broad categories called market classes.
Spanish names include bejuco canesta, sotacaballo, and pabello, (Puerto Rico, Central America, basket vine, substitute horse, or pavilion).
The extra element can be a metallic thread, or a much-thicker or much-narrower strand of yarn, or yarn that varies between thick and thin.
Fodder After crushing the seeds to extract linseed oil, the resultant linseed meal is a protein-rich feed for ruminants, rabbits, and fish.
Further processing of BCF into materials is carried out using "cold technologies" with low energy costs.
Since the valuable fibres are located in the phloem, they must often be separated from the woody core, the xylem, and sometimes also from the epidermis.
Khazz could be of superior quality or low quality, and the lower quality materials had other names like khazzaj, khazash and khashaz Khazz was also used to describe a cloth of blended wool (in some cases rabbit wool) and silk, and was also used historically to describe the beaver and its hide.
It is very fine and transparent but strong, the structure is similar to a gauze fabric that is loose and open in weave.
1920–2001 In 1920 it merged with the Washington Chemical Company, Newalls Insulation Company (founded as Magnesia Coverings by Frederick Newall) and J.
Combining synthetic fibres (which can have high strength, lustre, and fire retardant qualities) with natural fibres (which have good water absorbency and skin comforting qualities) is very common.
Construction safety net Construction safety nets are used on high-rise building construction sites to prevent the fall of people or objects from the site.
The specific type of net to be used depends upon many factors, such as the falling object's speed and mass.
As a result, stress fibers form only close to the ridges, and these acto-myosin bundles pull on their surroundings anisotropically.
Asbestos turned out to be harmful to health and produces mesothelioma, a form of lung cancer, years after professional or occasional exposure (asbestosis).
The earliest unambiguous reference to a spinning wheel in India is dated to 1350, suggesting that the spinning wheel was likely introduced from Iran to India during the Delhi Sultanate.
Ampelodesmos is a genus of Mediterranean plants in the grass family, which is known by the common names stramma, Mauritania grass, rope grass, and dis(s) grass.
External links Cocoonase of Bombyx mori at UniProt Cocoonase-assisted protein of Bombyx mori at UniProt == References ==
How the plant arrived on the island is not clear; Thor Heyerdahl argued that it had been brought by prehistoric Peruvians, but it is at least as likely to have been brought by birds.
See also Gauze Organdy Tulle (netting), another type of sheer fabric References == External links ==
A safety net is a type of net designed to protect people from injury after falling from heights by limiting the distance they fall, and dissipating the impact energy.
After fruiting, the pseudostem dies, but offshoots will normally have developed from the base, so that the plant as a whole is perennial.
The necessary radiation dose to treat mesothelioma that has not been surgically removed would be beyond human tolerance.
In 1973 Queen lead singer Freddie Mercury released a record under the name Larry Lurex, while recording the group's self-titled debut album.
Armazine was a type of corded silk used for women's gowns and men's waistcoats, first known from the Elizabethan era.
The width, which has the retroreflective surface, is always wider than the thickness with standard widths of 1/69", 1/32", and 1/23".
When exposed to heat or moisture, acids in the film base begin to deteriorate to an unusable state, releasing acetic acid with a characteristic vinegary smell, causing the process to be known as "vinegar syndrome".
Shockingly, the terms of the settlement required Ness Motley to recommend the same terms to any future claimants it might represent.
This risk may be the result of exposure to asbestos dust brought home on the clothing and hair of asbestos workers via washing a worker's clothes or coming into contact with asbestos-contaminated work clothing.
Mechanical Each spider and each type of silk has a set of mechanical properties optimised for their biological function.
The genus probably originated through ancient hybrid speciation, as a cross between parents from tribes Stipeae and Phaenospermateae.
More intense retting separates the fibre bundles into elementary fibres, which can be several centimetres long.
Hosiery yarn comes from a separate spinning process (melt spinning), and is used with circular knitting machines to form fabric.
Turnall Fibre Cement Ltd still operates in Zimbabwe but as an independent company, mainly producing asbestos cement sheets and pipes.
The term may derive from French organsin, ultimately from the Central Asian city of Urgench, the midpoint of the Northern Silk Road.
The yarn formation process is significantly more comprehensive and results in a very sleek yarn which will offer a clean looking woven fabric, such as for suitings.
Furthermore, a later type of asbestos-laden ware was also found here, known in the Russian archaeological literature as waffe ware.
Sisal plants have a lifespan of 7–10 years, producing 200–250 usable leaves containing fibers used in various applications.
Lotus silk uses fibres from a specific variety of lotus called padonma kya (ပဒုမ္မာကြာ), which produces large, fragrant pink flowers.
Based on this, cells seem to be able to sense the structural characteristics of their surrounding and consequently respond by adopting the orientation of topographical stimuli.
There are about 50 Gossypium species, making it the largest genus in the tribe Gossypieae, and new species continue to be discovered.
Adult male Attacus atlas moths produce juvenile hormones I and II, with JH II being the predominant form, and at levels significantly higher than in females, highlighting sexual dimorphism in hormone production.
Its stems and leaves are a dominant feature in many areas of New Zealand forest, the stems eventually reaching up to 30 m (98 ft) long.
Briefly, it has been supposed that cells, once seeded, form focal adhesions on top of the ridges and not above the grooves.
Corchorus olitorius is used mainly in the cuisines of southern Asia, the Middle East, North Africa and West Africa, Corchorus capsularis in Japan and China.
A variation of the process exists in which the silkworms are allowed to leave before the cocoons are soaked in boiling water to soften the silk, and then the fibers are reeled.
Recent work indicates that totora has been growing on Easter Island for at least 30,000 years, which is well before humans arrived on the island.
Under its present ownership by Honeywell, Bendix continues to manufacture automotive brakes and industrial brakes for a wide variety of industries.
1861/62 Ueber die Extraction des grauen Stares bei uneröffneter Kapsel durch den Skleralschnitt, Wiesbaden 1866.
Bratton was also a member of the NYAC team in the men's 4x50-yard freestyle relay which finished fourth in the Olympic final.
References Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs worldroots.com External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Gilbert Leigh
Edith was variously known as Miss Spencer-Kavanagh, Viola Spencer-Kavanagh, Viola Spencer, and Viola Kavanagh.
Later life In August 1969, Tidwell was involved in a domestic tragedy that led to the death of both himself and his estranged wife, Karen.
David Hey Bratton (October 1869 – December 3, 1904) was an American water polo player and competition swimmer who competed for the New York Athletic Club and represented the United States at the 1904 Summer Olympics in St.
References External links Profile at doha-2006.com Report at aljazeera.net Report at foxsports.com Report at ESPN.com
Spanish-American War World War I World War II Of the more than 500 major league players who served in the military in World War II, two were killed.
A player who does not bat in an innings is recorded in the scorecard as "absent"; Abdul Aziz is recorded as "absent" in the second innings, with a footnote explaining he was hurt but died.
Baracca had also transferred into squadron; on 3 May 1918, Nardini and Baracca jointly incinerated a Hansa-Brandenburg C.I south of Grave di Papadopoli.
According to Etienne Ugeux's son, this was done by Tshombe to remove Samalenge from his office for a few months because of his "incompetence".
Authorities announced that, while they would file no criminal charges against the party, the group did cause the avalanche.
Sergei Chalibashvili (Georgian: სერგო შალიბაშვილი; Russian: Сергей Шалибашвили; 22 June 1962 – 16 July 1983) was a Georgian competitive diver from the Soviet Union.
His maternal grandmother's father was John Allen Olton who owned the Harrow estate in Saint Philip, Barbados.
She was also known as Viola Spencer-Kavanagh, Viola Spencer, Viola Kavanagh, and perhaps as Viola Fleet and Elsa Spencer.
He began competitive swimming with the Knickerbocker Athletic Club in New York, but the club later folded.
A survey of 2008 Olympics teams, however, indicated that cycling was not even in the top six most injury-prone sports during competition that year.
Mieczysław Karłowicz at AllMusic Works by Mieczysław Karłowicz in National Digital Library of Poland (Polona)
Ngetich set his personal best of 2:12:10 hours when he finished second at the Houston Marathon in 2006.
Yulia Ryabchinskaya (21 January 1947 – 13 January 1973) was a canoeist from Ukraine and Olympic champion.
In 1994-95 he aggregated 1,034 runs in 10 matches at an average of 73.86 with 3 centuries and 4 half-centuries, which was a record number of runs in a Ranji Trophy season.
A UK manufacturer made the 'Welcom' Clem Sohn Bird-Man Glider, featuring "a red suited male figure with fold-out arms" and rubber wheels.
Because the salvage operation on Latham's first Antoinette resulted in severe damage to the aircraft, Levavasseur was forced to arrange for a second plane to be shipped from the factory in Puteaux, a Paris suburb, and it arrived on July 21.
He also wrote a number of songs for voice and piano, setting words by Kazimierz Przerwa-Tetmajer, Adam Asnyk, and others.
Presidential spokesperson Mac Maharaj mirrored this, saying that the nation had lost a hero and that Mulaudzi had flown the South African flag through his athletics.
Nicolae Berechet (April 16, 1915 – August 19, 1936) was a Romanian boxer who competed in the 1936 Summer Olympics.
He was a left-handed batsman who averaged 27.21 with the bat in 28 first-class games and 9.42 with the bat in 8 one-day domestic games.
After the match King played an audiotape, where the late father of the two brothers claimed that King was the more talented of the two of them.
The Violin Concerto was written for and dedicated to his former teacher Stanisław Barcewicz, who premiered the work under Karłowicz's baton in Berlin on 21 March 1903 with the Berlin Philharmonic.
McKeand had attended Sydney University in 1943–1948 and graduated with a Bachelor of Veterinary Science in 1949.
Lord Chesham was appointed to honorary colonel of the Buckinghamshire Imperial Yeomanry (Royal Bucks Hussars) on 19 March 1902.
His father was David Edzell Thomas Lindsay (1910–1968), a great-grandson of Charles Morgan, 1st Baron Tredegar.
Ryabchinskaya also won a gold in the K-4 500 m event at the 1971 ICF Canoe Sprint World Championships in Belgrade.
Louis summoned the Polish prelates and lords to Kassa (now Košice in Slovakia) in September 1379, persuading them to acknowledge Mary's right to succeed him in Poland.
The expedition set off from Lake Victoria in Uganda on 17 January, reaching Khartoum on 25 March and the Mediterranean Sea at Rosetta on 21 May.
The two queens were dragged to Krupa, and from there to Novigrad Castle on the coast of the Adriatic Sea.
References External links Tadeusz Zieliński at World Athletics Tadeusz Zieliński at Olympics.com Tadeusz Zieliński at the Polish Olympic Committee (archived) (in Polish) Tadeusz Zieliński at Olympedia
He was a guy who was as tough as possible, and took his last breath with his bat in his hand, like a warrior.
Injuries to both horse and rider as a result of competition in Eventing have occurred throughout history and around the world, and it is "a sport in which the vast majority of rider injuries are minor and insignificant, but in which the possibility of catastrophic results always exist".
Researchers claimed the deaths more likely stemmed from Bena Tshadi players wearing screw-in metal cleats, which conducted electricity, whereas Basanga wore molded cleats.
On attaining the desired altitude she found that she could not detach the parachute from the balloon.
He and another officer collided violently and Rich was flung to the ground, suffering a fractured skull.
Davie had just become affiliated with kickboxing promotion K-1 and became vice-president of K-1 USA.
She was diagnosed with poliomyelitis soon after arrival in London, and isolated in a local hospital ward, with access to an iron lung.
His senior career started in 2022, featuring spells with Eastbourne Borough and Hastings United before signing with Chichester City in 2025.
Some people claim that the Italian explorer Amerigo Vespucci—after whom the Americas are named—was named in his honor, though there is no definitive evidence to support this etymology.
See also List of association footballers who died after on-field incidents List of unusual deaths in the 20th century == References ==
On 17 September 2016, Golbarnezhad died in an accident which occurred during the 2016 Summer Paralympics' men's C4-5 road cycling event.
I love you man will always love you Champ!" and Mokoena said: "I've lost a brother, a friend, and a national hero!
This has been refuted by modern historiography:Süleyman's mother was actually the consort Efendize Hatun, while Nilüfer entered the harem in 1325, twenty years after Süleyman's birth.
Following the incident, the flag of Iran was lowered to half-staff in the Paralympic Village, and for the Iranian sitting volleyball victory against Bosnia and Herzegovina.
A video of the incident showed Petgrave's left skate kick up towards Johnson as he began to fall after colliding with another Panthers player.
Nacho Libre In 2005, González was cast as the villain opposite Jack Black's character in the Paramount Pictures film Nacho Libre.
In the summer of 2023, Johnson debated between retiring from hockey to pursue a more traditional career or continue his playing career in Europe.
On August 11, 1936 he was eliminated in the first round of the featherweight class after losing his fight to Evald Seeberg.
In an interview with Cycling (now Cycling Weekly) journalist, Ken Evans, in April, Simpson revealed his intention to attempt the hour record in the 1967 season.
Madho Singh II died on 7 September 1922 and was succeeded by Man Singh as Maharaja of Jaipur and head of the Kachwaha clan of Rajputs.
The defenders of Vrana surrendered to Mary, who had been present during the siege along with her mother, on 4 November 1383.
In 1966 he died in an accident, when he fell from a horse during the filming of Andrzej Wajda's film Popioły.
References External links the great white explorer: Personal blog Journeyman Pictures: River People Ugandan rafters conquer River Kagera 14 May 2005
While preparing to receive the next ball, Abdul Aziz fell to the ground and never regained consciousness, dying en route to the hospital.
See also Antonio Amato Salvatore Nuvoli Cosimo Campioto Livio Tesconi Antonio Casoar Gian Carlo Casalini Sergio Tagliapietra Vincenzo Rubolotta References External links Arrigo Menicocci at World Rowing Arrigo Menicocci at Olympedia
2004: Ranked #2 again in Powder Magazine’s Reader Poll, won Powder Magazine’s Full Throttle award, won Powder Magazine’s Best Helmet Cam award, went ski BASE jumping all over Europe, double front flip off the Eiger and got married in Thailand.
In World War II, Jack Lummus and Charlie Behan were posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor and the Navy Cross, respectively.
References External links Media related to Les McKeand at Wikimedia Commons Leslie 'Les' McKeand at Australian Athletics Historical Results
Patrick de Gayardon (French pronunciation: [patʁik də ɡajaʁdɔ̃]; 23 January 1960 in Oullins, Rhône – 13 April 1998 in Hawaii) was a French skydiver, skysurfer and a BASE jumper.
He went to Olpopongi Primary School, but did not go to high school, since his parents could not afford to pay his school fees.
He earned a silver medal at the European Youth Championship in 1978 in Florence, diving from the 10-meter diving platform.
During this flight he took his hands off the steering wheel, took a cigarette out of his silver case and smoked it in his ivory holder, thus creating a new record.
Harry died in 1943 after drowning in the Murray River attempting to retrieve a duck he had just shot.
References External links William Harry's playing statistics from AFL Tables William Harry at AustralianFootball.com
In 1998 Patrick fell to his death in Hawaii during a skydive with Adrian Nicholas using the wingsuit while testing a modification to his parachute container; his death is attributed to a rigging error he made while making the modification.
After losing consciousness and experiencing what appeared to be a seizure, he was taken to Saint Joseph Medical Center Critical Care Unit.
29 March 1912), married on 4 July 1863 Sir William Earle Welby-Gregory, 4th Baronet He died in 1844 of the effects of a hunting accident suffered earlier in life.
He is best known for his role as the elderly-community leader named Tinle in Himalaya, a 1999 adventure film directed by Éric Valli, a French film director.
On 1 October 2025, Arsenal paid tribute to Vigar during their UEFA Champions League group stage match against Olympiacos, with players wearing black armbands in his honour.
Club career Ibrahim started playing football at the Al-Minaa Academy, and was able to win with Al-Minaa U16 team the Basra Clubs Youth League in 2009.
He started as a competitive ski racer but moved on to be featured in a long line of extreme skiing movies.
A rotational fall is defined as when the "horse forward somersaults in the air before landing on its back." This often occurs as a result of the horse hitting the fence with its front legs while jumping.
He stood up after the fight but almost immediately collapsed and died two days later from severe brain injuries at the Kiev Institute of Neurosurgery.
He was shot by mistake by the Emperor when the latter aimed his rifle at a deer and Prince Adam Franz got into the line of fire.
Some say it was Irene Monomachina, a relative of Byzantine emperor Constantine IX Monomachos, or a female member of the Argyros family to which Byzantine emperor Romanos III Argyros belonged.
He had the rooms of Tiengen Castle redecorated and also the Protivín castle converted into a baroque building.
In turn Cortés gave her in guard to Pedro de Alvarado, who quickly and unremarkably became her lover.
He graduated from Princeton in 1896 and became the head football coach of the University of North Carolina football team in 1896.
The dangers of the various sporting forms of cycling continue to be an issue, including training on public roadways.
On 14 March 2019, he returned to Japan where he participated in a shared event with World Wonder Ring Stardom and Tokyo Gurentai teaming with Fuerza Guerrera and Diamante losing to Ultimo Dragon, El Hijo del Santo and Shiryu.
His story was also featured in 2022 as an episode on National Geographic's Edge of the Unknown With Jimmy Chin.
He stayed with the club until 2017, where he appeared in 97 matches, then moved to Naft Al-Janoob for one season.
He was admitted to the Privy Council in July 1901, and also served as a Lord of the Bedchamber to the Prince of Wales (later King George V) from 1901 to 1907.
In the dramatized version, Griffith dominates the fight from the beginning, with the fight ending in the middle rounds and Paret dying later that night.
Gayatri Devi tended to support her step-son and deprecate her niece in the matter of their marital differences, and Prithviraj Singh remained close to his step-mother all his life.
Gülbahar Hatun, daughter of Kötürüm Bayezid Sons Süleyman Pasha had at least three sons: Ishak Bey, Rumelia's bey.
One of his aunts, Louise-Françoise de Bourbon, princesse de Condé, a legitimised daughter of Louis XIV and Madame de Montespan, proposed her daughter Louise Élisabeth de Bourbon, but the marriage proposal did not materialize, much to the annoyance of the House of Bourbon-Condé.
The information secretariat coordinated the Katangese representations in Brussels (headed by Jacques Masangu), Paris (headed by Dominique Diur), and the Katanga Information Services in New York (headed by Michel Struelens), as well as the various pro-Katangese groups abroad.
Whilst batting in the first innings of the Quaid-e-Azam final against Pakistan Combined Services on 17 January 1959, Abdul Aziz was struck over the heart by a slow off break from Dildar Awan.
It was reported that he played in the match amid severe chest pain and died on the ground while fielding.
Ferdinand Maximilian of Baden-Baden, Hereditary Prince of Baden-Baden (23 September 1625 – 4 November 1669) was the father of the famous general Louis William, Margrave of Baden-Baden.
Lee) descendants, Letitia Christian Tyler wife of John Tyler and by marriage to Declaration of Independence signer Richard Henry Lee .
Douglas Dedge (June 18, 1966 – March 18, 1998) was an American mixed martial artist who was the first known American competitor to be fatally injured in an MMA fight and the first death in the modern era of professional MMA.
The highlight of the Kerma Museum are seven black granite statues uncovered in a ditch at the nearby site of Dukki Gel in 2003 by an archaeological team headed by Charles Bonnet.
The shape of the museum and headquarters is relatively simple, with T-shaped wings, each with an entrance.
It has a collection composed mainly of replicas of Egyptian pieces belonging to several different periods.
As a result the source of the pieces in the collection which did not appear in the 1837 catalogue is not certain.
Antiquities from the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam were transferred to Leiden with government support in 1825.
It was the Belize City Prison until 1993, when prisoners were then transferred to the Hattieville Prison In 2002, it was restored and renovated into a national museum.
In 2007, the Abu Dhabi Authority for Culture & Heritage assigned Cultural Innovations to create an arts centre in the Al Qattara Fort complex.
Upon its 100th anniversary in 1991, the museum received the European Council Museum Award, particularly for the renovations made to the lower floor halls in the main building and the new displays in the other buildings.
Building At that time, the possibility of building a museum as infrastructure to house a single collection did not exist, so the municipality determined that it would be located in the house that belonged to Apolinar Jaén, to adapt it to the requirements of a museum that would house this collection.
It is located in a subterranean building underneath the "Plaza de la Cultura" and is owned and curated by the Banco Central de Costa Rica.
One of the chief purposes of Tamayo and the museum was to collect the historic pieces, and to protect them from entering the illegal artifact traders market.
In 1885 his 'house museum' had grown to a total of 19 galleries, the first 14 of which had been designed by Vilhelm Dahlerup while Hack Kampmann had built the last four as well as conducted a redesign of the winter garden.
The oil agreement with the Standard Oil Company of California was signed by Abdullah Suleiman on behalf of Saudi Arabia and Lloyd N.
The grouped buildings are set within a park bordered by the Avenida de Berna (north), Avenida António Augusto de Aguiar (west), Rua Marquês de Sá da Bandeira (east) and the Centro de Arte Moderna (south).
The Bannu Archeological Project is a joint initiative focused on the archeological research efforts of a series of excavation sites across Bannu in Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.
Buildings and facilities The Museo Popol Vuh is one of the most modern of all the museums in Guatemala in terms of physical facilities.
The Regional Museum and Art Gallery of Dilijan is a museum of local history and an art gallery in Dilijan, Armenia.
The museum also received items from the Punic-Mauri site of Tamuda, excavated by César Luis de Montalbán from 1921 onward.
During the interwar period, the collections grew considerably due to Belgian scientific expeditions around the world most notably in Apamea (Syria), in Egypt by the Egyptologist Jean Capart, and in Easter Island in 1936, or by excavations in archaeological sites across Belgium.
The entrance to the reception hall displays charred wooden beams of the roof, which collapsed onto the mosaic floor, destroyed in fierce fire at the time of destruction.
External links Official website in Dutch Official website in English Virtual tour of the Rijksmuseum van Oudheden provided by Google Arts & Culture Media related to Rijksmuseum van Oudheden at Wikimedia Commons
Overview The museum has permanent exhibits of local archaeological finds and on the traditional way of life historically in Fujairah in particular and the UAE in general.
2001 – present In 2001, the Institute launched a two-year Library Digitisation Pilot Program (LDPP).
The National Museum of Anthropology (Filipino: Pambansang Museo ng Antropolohiya), formerly known as the Museum of the Filipino People (Filipino: Museo ng Lahing Filipino), is a component museum of the National Museum of the Philippines which houses ethnological and archaeological exhibitions.
Although completed in 1938, it was hit by a bomb in 1940 and remained semi-derelict for 22 years, before reopening in 1962.
In the early years of the biographical register, it was hoped it could "provide an important record of the achievements of Aboriginal people, and be a source of pride for generations to come".
Thought to be the world's oldest shopping mall, the arcades in Trajan's Market are now believed by many to be administrative offices for Emperor Trajan.
Rifnik Hill (pronounced [ˈɾiːfnik]) is a hill with an archaeological open-air museum in eastern Slovenia.
This last museum has also developed a 'museum-without-walls' through a series of underwater wreck trails.
Casa del Alabado has: Eight exhibit rooms, one room for temporary exhibits, two rooms for workshops, a museum shop and two courtyards.
Like his contemporaries, he did not only value the remains of pre-Columbian cultures, but also considered the pieces from Tlatilco, Teotihuacán and Western Mexico as foundational works of Mexican aesthetics.
The museum's collections range from prehistory to the Islamic eras, connected through a Roman period evidenced by ancient marble and bronze sculptures found in Morocco.
With the acquisition of the Feoli collection, the Martin Wagner Museum gained about 480 new antiquities at once, mostly dating from between 530 and 480 BC and consisting primarily of Greek vases, but also Etruscan ones.
Today’s collection Since 1975, considerable donations have allowed the acquisition of over 15.000 unique items from the ancient Near East.
They divided their work into four main goals, namely archaeology, literature, history and ethnology.
The museum was officially opened on 17 March 2005 and is administered by staff of the Atlas Arqueológico de Guatemala.
In the following years, he served on the scientific committee in Philadelphia and took part in two further excavations in Nippur as well as one in Constantinople.
The facilities consist of a lobby, a patio and two arcades where a mural of the State of Durango with its different areas is shown; the Semi Desert, the Plains, the Valleys, the Sierra Madre Occidental and the Quebradas.
Initially founded as the López Memorial Museum, the institution was originally meant to be dedicated to López's parents, Benito and Presentacion López but shifted to maintaining a collection dedicated to Filipino heritage.
And finally, the third section called "Labyrinth" contains a photographic gallery dedicated to the Old Bridge; that is, to the damaged towers and to the phases of restoration.
The excavations during the building of the Al Qattara Arts centre uncovered a five metre long sequence of archaeological layers, from the last Islamic period to the Iron Age, 3000 years ago.
All images displayed on that exhibition were donated to the Wikimedia Commons and came to illustrate posts of important publications online linked to science.
The Museum of Archaeology (Kazakh: Археология мұражайы, Arxeologïya murajayı; Russian: Музей археологии, romanized: Muzey arkheologii) is an archaeological museum located in the Ğılım ordası complex of the National Academy of Sciences of Kazakhstan in Almaty, Kazakhstan.
Under its first curator, Renato Constantino, the museum acquired the Juan Luna painting, España y Filipinas which complemented López growing collection of Filipiniana books and maps.
The palace proved to be too small and did not have enough storage space, so that in 1937 it was decided that the museum should be moved to the Palace of Culture, in the current building of the Romanian Opera and the National Theatre.
Déri Museum, Debrecen, two mummies – the priest Hor and a middle-aged man who lived during the 18th Dynasty.
The inscription in Ottoman Turkish on the pediments of the gates at the entrance of the museum says Asar-ı Atika Müzesi" (English: Museum of Antiquities).
The MuM Interpretation Centre is an ethnological museum which tells the story of Mostar's religion, culture and spiritual background.
Contents of the collection Today, the collection comprises about 45,000 inventory units from about 1500 mainly European sites, of which about 1000 are located in Central Germany.
Description The statuette of a bird is a bronze sculpture of a bird sitting on a pedestal measuring 17.5 x 12.2 x 3.3 cm, with a long neck and tail.
Collection The museum is devoted exclusively to the art of ancient civilizations from the 4th millennium BC to the 7th century AD.
The collection reflects the depth and beauty of Jewish heritage and creativity as well as the aesthetic and stylistic influences of other cultures in places where Jews lived.
In Costa Rican history, gold was considered a symbol of authority and the items are testament to the craftmanship of the Pre-Columbian period.
The conservation restoration workshop preserves the museum material and organizes the technical days and workshops at the temporary exhibitions in the context of educational activities.
While Rottiers was working in the eastern Mediterranean, Jean Emile Humbert was collecting and excavating in Tunisia.
Iron columns on the roof held curtains, giving the appearance of sails, and stone terraces on the riverbank served as seating areas for enjoying the Nile view, fishing, and leisure.
The design of the new spaces was the work of the Mexican architect Mauricio Rocha Iturbide, who was meant to interpret Diego's initial project, achieving a dialogue between the original Anahuacalli building and the new structures.
Other points of interest The Museum's Auditorium seats 120 people and often houses lectures and other local events.
The original gate was designed by Rubio and Javier Ferrand, and was reinforced after a terrorist attack destroyed it.
Peruvian President Alejandro Toledo inaugurated the museum at the summit, saying "we are showing the world our cultural wealth.
The museum is used to show archaeological objects found in Buduruwagala area and also exhibits relics belonging to Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa and Kandy periods.
1916 – 1918 from a neoclassical design by Canadian-American architect Ralph Harrington Doane when he was consulting architect to the Philippine government, the building formerly housed the Department of Finance.
In 1961 the city of Basel decided to establish the museum to assemble the several antiquities in one place.
The images did not pretend to be the objects, but were objects in their own right and, therefore, able to constitute a collection in their own right.
Archaeological park The permanent exhibition is based on more than a hundred years of archaeological research and is divided into two parts.
The Inca culture conquered all the territory of pre-Columbian Peru where they restored with great political ability the Tahuantinsuyo empire.
Fine Arts Wing The Edmond and Lily Safra Fine Arts Wing reflects the wide-ranging, interdisciplinary nature of the museum's collections, encompassing works of art from across the ages in Western and non-Western cultures.
Exhibits include painted ceramic art of several regional styles depicting mythology, religion with god like figures containing hieroglyphic texts, and often indicating the owner of the piece and the artist.
They include 950 sculptures and Etruscan antiquities that were purchased by German archaeologist Wolfgang Helbig, Theidoit Jacobsen's broker in Rome for 25 years.
The López Museum and Library, also known as simply the Lopez Museum, is a Philippine art and history museum and library.
The piece is of the Palmar variety of the Palmar-Naranja Polychrome type, belonging to the Palmar-Danta ceramic group.
The five most prominent artifacts exhibited in the museum include: The ornate sarcophagi from the Royal necropolis of Ayaa in Sidon: The Alexander Sarcophagus, found in the Ayaa necropolis of Sidon.
The historic building that hosts the museum has been renovated and restored to be suitable for displaying and displaying cultural relics and artifacts.
On 27 May 1991, Sheikh Hamad bin Mohammed Al Sharqi issued a decree to establish a Department of Antiquities and Heritage for the Emirate of Fujairah, including maintenance of the museum and its collection.
The remaining collection was renamed the National Museum of Anthropology, focusing on pre-Columbian Mexico and modern day Mexican ethnography.
Themes include Greco-Roman religion (figurines of Venus, Juno, Eros, etc.), busts of historical and political figures (famously Juba II, Cato), full-size statues (Ephebos), and public life (constitutions).
In 1938, under the lead of the historian Ion Berciu, the settlement came to be managed by the Romanian state under the new name of Alba Regional Museum.
There are a total of ten galleries: Formative, Nasca, Mochica, Huari, Chancay – Chimu, Inca, Wood, Jewelry and Stone, Silver, and Gold and Metals.
It previously was located in Pasig, Philippines at the ground floor of the Benpres Building, Exchange Road corner Meralco Avenue, Ortigas Center.
Finally in 1992 they merged again, creating the current museum, and passing under the supervision of the now extinct National Institute of Culture.
References External links History of the collection Information about Jena's Ancient Near Eastern Studies and the Hilprecht Collection Hilprecht Collection at the FSU Jena
The institute taught a diploma until the first BA degree was offered in 1968, followed shortly thereafter by a BSc.
Islamic period Presented in a dedicated pavilion, this section focuses on Islamic civilisation in Morocco, from the Almoravid dynasty to the Alaouites.
The rooftop (final floor) is a spacious terrace offering a wide view of the Nile, designed for the king to overlook the city of Helwan.
Among the museum's prized possessions are 8th-century wooden panels from the Jami Al-Aqsa and 12th-century (Crusader-period) marble lintels from the Church of the Holy Sepulchre.
Participating institutions included the University of California, Los Angeles, the University of Oxford, and the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science.
In this circuit, a wide-ranging number of pieces reflect various European artistic trends from the beginning of the 11th century to the mid-20th century.
In October 2020, the museum launched the Tamra temporary exhibition (closed in 2022), about the importance and history of the date palm tree in cultural practices and heritage in the region.
Further collections of minerals, slag and other materials provide teaching resources for the study of ancient technology.
The museum was established in 1997 to house the pre-Columbian art collection formerly held by its parent museum, the Barbier-Mueller Museum in Genève, Switzerland, which was loaned to the city of Barcelona.
Others display artifacts inside buildings, such as National Museum of Beirut and Cairo's Museum of Egyptian Antiquities.
At the beginning of the last decade of the 19th century, the museum had the following collections: archeology and ancient history, pinacotheca, natural sciences, library and archive.
See also List of museums in Saudi Arabia References External links Media related to Jeddah Regional Museum of Archaeology and Ethnography at Wikimedia Commons
In August 2003 the National Institute of Culture and History (NICH) was created, and the former Department of Archaeology became the Institute of Archaeology within the NICH.
Other galleries include the Lithic, Vault, Ceramics, Metals, Textiles and Storage in which visitors have the opportunity to view the museum's entire collection of classified archaeological objects.
The museum includes Inca utensils, Paracas textiles, Nazca ceramics as well as a miniature model of the Nazca lines.
The section begins with works in ivory and illuminated manuscript books, followed by a selection of 15th, 16th and 17th century sculptures and paintings.
Through 4000 years of history, from 2000 BC to the present day, statuettes, painted vases, jewellery revive the Inca, Mayan and Aztec civilisations.
The museum also contains a gold-plated metal desk clock, featuring a crystal panel with 12 ancient stones, gold hands, and decorative golden crocodile statues on the crystal.
Dating techniques and chronology Employing absolute and relative dating techniques, researchers involved with the Bannu Archeological Project have been able to illustrate a general sense of chronology.
Funding Due to the unofficial nature of the Genocide Prevention Group, the group does not receive Parliamentary funding.
Reform proposals In 2019, the Italian parliament passed a constitutional law that reduces the number of the deputies from 630 to 400.
Although the 1906 Constitution established a bicameral legislature, the Majles remained the only (unicameral) legislative chamber until the 1949 Constituent Assembly, in which the Senate of Iran was formed as the upper house, making the Majles the lower house.
The PDI-P, led by Megawati Sukarnoputri, had won the largest share of the vote with Golkar in second place.
Composition Presiding officer The municipal vice mayor is the ex officio presiding officer of the Sangguniang Bayan, although he has no voting privilege except in cases to break a deadlock.
Additionally, they are charged with the protection of members of Congress, officers of Congress, and their families throughout the entire United States, its territories and possessions, and the District of Columbia.
According to this act, “the Democratic Republic of Georgia equally guarantees to every citizen within her limits political rights irrespective of nationality, creed, social rank or sex".
Although the Derg used the new Shengo Hall across the street as its parliament, the post-communist government moved parliament back into this older building.
The other chamber of the National Congress (Congreso Nacional) is the Chamber of Senators (Cámara de Senadores).
Basically, the document explained how Colombia was going to be as an independent nation, in relation to the reasons that motivated the political union of Venezuela and New Granada.
On 31 October 1951 he addressed the assembly for the first time and called on it to frame the states constitution and to give a 'reasoned conclusion regarding accession'.
According to one view, all the people in the vicinity assembled there in order to reach agreements and to mete out justice.
The National Assembly is the lower house of the bicameral Parliament of Bhutan, and is responsible for enacting laws, representing the people, and overseeing the government.
Adrien Houngbédji was elected as President of the National Assembly on the night of 19–20 May 2015; as the candidate representing the opposition, he received 42 votes.
The palace includes two courtyards, the Old Palace Yard and New Palace Yard; the former dates to the time of Edward the Confessor, while the latter was built in 1097 on the orders of William II (Rufus).
Elections were held in Indonesia on 15 December 1955 to elect all 514 members of the Constitutional Assembly.
The Cortes of León or Decreta of León from year 1188 was a parliamentary body in the medieval Kingdom of León.
Under the conventions of the Westminster system, the government of the day and the prime minister must achieve and maintain the confidence of this House in order to gain and remain in power.
This would add 25 sitting days to the Parliamentary calendar to make up for the 22 sitting days lost due to Parliament being prorogued.
It also has concurrent jurisdiction with other law enforcement agencies, including the United States Park Police and the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia, in an area of approximately 200 blocks around the complex.
During the inquiry, Wajngarten denied that the federal government had made attacks on opponents through a parallel communications secretariat, popularly known as the hate cabinet; also denying that Councilman Carlos Bolsonaro (Republicans-RJ) had influence in the secretariat during his term.
The DpL saw its vote share rise 11.1% to 23.3% from 2021 and won six seats, an increase of four, the highest of any third party in Liechtenstein's history.
McCormack (1969) that the House of Representatives can only exclude duly elected members for only reasons in the Qualification of Members Clause.
This format was inherited from the United Kingdom and was a near-identical copy of the Parliament at Westminster.
Article 61 of the Italian Constitution maintains that elections for the Chamber of Deputies must take place within 70 days of the dissolution of the house, and that representatives must convene within 20 days of those elections.
When Christianity arrived, the Christian rites and especially baptism were central to the community.
It was elected by universal suffrage, excluding the armed forces and convicted criminals but after 1963 including women, who could both vote and be elected.
Procter, Evelyn."The Interpretation of Clause 3 in the Decrees of León," EHR 85 (1970 Merriman, Roger B.
Furthermore, a Senator cannot also serve as a civil servant, a member of the armed forces or police, a judge, a public prosecutor, a controller, or a current sitting member of the House of Assembly.
Shift to Tobruk On 4 August 2014, amid escalating violence in the capital during the Second Libyan Civil War, the House of Representatives relocated to the eastern city of Tobruk in the Butnan District following the occupation of Tripoli by armed Islamist groups.
A legislator directly on the cutting line is indifferent between voting "yea" and "nay" on the measure.
Its charter, sealed in the cornerstone during the ceremony, bore the names of the king, the metropolitan, and chief architect Jovan Ilkić.
This was because all resolutions passed by a given session of the Sejm formed a whole resolution, and, as such, was published as the annual "constituent act" of the Sejm, e.g.
The chairman of the assembly was Anthim I as chairman, Todor Ikonomov as deputy chairman, and Georgi Tishev as secretary.
The Constituent Assembly was dissolved on 26 January 1957, based on Mir Qasim resolution it adopted and ratified the constitution of Jammu and Kashmir on 17 November 1956.
Legacy Although the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2007 did not become law, its introduction set the stage for future discussions on accountability mechanisms within Congress.
At some time during the first two months of each session, the President customarily delivers the State of the Union Address, a speech in which he assesses the situation of the country and outlines his legislative proposals for the congressional session.
The voter can cast his vote in three different ways: Drawing a sign on the symbol of a list: in this case the vote extends to the candidate in the single-member constituency which is supported by that list.
The Group is currently chaired by Member of Parliament Ali Ehsassi and the vice-chairs are as follows: Garnett Genuis, MP (Conservative); Ruby Sahota, MP (Liberal); and Cheryl Hardcastle, MP (NDP).
On 13 March, President Michel Martelly issued a decree that split the Cerca La Source into two constituencies, and therefore increasing the number of deputies up to 119.
In March 2015 a new electoral decree stated that the new Chamber of Deputies have 118 members, and the Senate will retain the 30 members.
The aforesaid date, i.e., December 25th, shall be the anniversary of the Republic, due to its "political regeneration".
Based on the styles of the inscriptions, the assembly location was created in the 1010s, and the runestones are some decades older than the Jarlabanke runestone U 212 which tells of the creation of another assembly location.
The first elections in decades were held in September 2005, four years after the fall of the Taliban regime, still under international (mainly UN and NATO) supervision.
Members All municipalities in the Philippines, with the exception of Pateros in Metro Manila, have eight regular members or councilors elected at-large.
The president could veto the disapproval, but Congress, by a two-thirds vote in each house, could override the veto.
Section 76 Bills; Bills that concern the provinces are mainly those that correlate with areas of combined national and provincial legislative powers.
During the single-party rule from 1967 to 1990, all members were from Gabonese Democratic Party (PDG), the sole legal party.
The buildings, known before 1963 as the "Legislative Buildings", were designed by prominent modernist architect, Amyas Connell, and the town planning advisor to the Kenyan Colonial Government, Harold Thornley Dyer.
The Macpherson constitution of 1951 expanded the council furthermore by creating a 185-seat federal House of Representatives.
These can include attending state functions, as well as participating in visits and meetings alongside members of the Government and the Public Service.
The name of that body varies from one canton to another: town council: Canton of Jura conseil général: general council (Switzerland) (Valais, Fribourg) conseil communal (Vaud).
U 226 This runestone was also made by Gunnar and is classified as being carved in runestone style Pr1.
four were appointed by the President on the advice of the prime minister and the remaining four individuals represented the Federal Territory: the Oba of Lagos (an ex officio Senator), a chief selected by parliament, two other individuals.
The Yang di-Pertuan Agong appoints the Prime Minister, who is the Head of Government but constitutionally subordinant to His Majesty, from the Dewan Rakyat.
Eventually, later that same day President Bacharuddin Jusuf Habibie in a live TV broadcast declared the results were valid.
At one time, there was an attempt led by government backbenchers to gain Abdullah's support for a policy change which would permit some discretion in voting, but Abdullah insisted that MPs have "no leeway or freedom to do as they like".
Rationale and goals The bill aimed to directly link Congressional salaries to federal fiscal performance, thereby incentivizing lawmakers to adopt balanced budget measures.
Created in 1958 and 1959, the mural portrays events including the Revolutions of 1848, the First World War and the 1918 creation of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, the Second World War and national liberation, and the creation of socialist Yugoslavia and homeland reconstruction.
The Golkar float was attacked and damaged The traffic circle in front of Hotel Indonesia was a popular spot for rallies.
This meant that until 2008 the Assembly could be legally dissolved by the People's Council, was led by the President, and was no longer able to amend the Constitution.
Historical composition Qajar Iran Pahlavi Iran Reza Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi Notes and references Afary, Janet.
The Fundamental Law of the Republic of Colombia (1819) Contents of the Fundamental Law On December 17, 1819, the Fundamental Law of the Republic of Colombia (Ley Fundamental de Colombia, in Spanish) was enacted by the congressmen in the city of Angostura (nowadays Ciudad Bolívar).
Construction Following the end of World War II, a venue was needed to house the legislature of Slovenia, at the time a federal republic of communist Yugoslavia.
In 2006, Information Minister Zainuddin Maidin cited the controversy over speeches made at the United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) — the leading party in the ruling Barisan Nasional coalition – annual general assembly as a reason to avoid telecasting Parliamentary debates.
References See also National Assembly (Republic of China) Nanjing Great Hall of the People Great Hall of the People
It has 145 members, elected by two-round system Legislative history National Assembly was established in 1960 by the Constitution of Gabon as a unicameral legislature.
Though their own internal rules differ, the two major political parties (Democrats and Republicans) have essentially parallel sets of committees; third parties have more varied organizational structures.
At the end of 1865, Buchser planned a mural in the National Council Chamber depicting the most important American personalities of the time, which was intended to express Switzerland's solidarity with the United States.
The term of office of the House (as well as the Senate) is five years, but can be extended in two cases: The "prorogatio", as provided by art.
There are currently about twenty official members of the Genocide Prevention Group, with some sixty parliamentarians who participate in events hosted by the Genocide Prevention Group.
Electoral system Out of the 50 members of the Senate of Kazakhstan, 40 are indirectly elected for six years by delegates from the 17 provinces and three national cities.
Fifth week On May 25, 2021, it was the turn of the Health Ministry's secretary of management and labor Mayra Pinheiro (commonly called "Captain Chloroquine") to testify at the COVID-19 CPI.
On 27 February, Sir Iakoba Italeli was elected as the Speaker of the Parliament of Tuvalu in an uncontested ballot.
The Senate also has authority over certain presidential decrees, particularly those related to military force, the declaration of a state of emergency, and other matters affecting national security and governance.
In the late 1940s, the Slovenian government began soliciting proposals for a new legislature building.
The first inhabitants, who were of Celtic descent, were driven out by Norse landnamsmen in about 825.
These amendments are part of the General Budget of the Union (OGU) and are a way for parliamentarians to directly influence the allocation of public resources.
The participants emphasized that the session was not intended to divide the HoR or the country and invited other members to attend a follow-up session scheduled for 5 May.
For the joint session to count electoral votes for President, the Constitution requires the President of the Senate (the Vice President of the United States) to preside.
The runestones and the assembly location were created by the Skålhamra clan who also had the two Risbyle Runestones made across the lake near their estate.
For purposes of this election the state was divided into constituencies containing population of 40,000 or as near thereto as possible and each electing one member.
Elections When the required withdrawal did not occur for several years Jammu & Kashmir National Conference which was the largest political party in the state recommended convening the constituent assembly in a resolution passed on 27 October 1950.
The Ou Raadsaal (English: Old Council Hall) is a historic building in Pretoria, South Africa, located on the south side of Church Square.
The transfer of its collection to the new Museum of Fine Arts in 1879 only temporarily alleviated the lack of space.
There are rules and procedures, often complex and refined over many years, which guide how it operates -- and, especially, how it will convert ideas for legislation into laws.
Among the 132 political scientists signing the statement were 10 professors emeriti, including Meyer Brownstone, Peter H.
The delegates from New Granada were chosen from among the exiles fighting alongside the Venezuelan patriots.
The first meeting of the re-created upper chamber took place following the 2018 regional and local elections.
86, however, introduced the so-called mandatory amendments, which must be complied with by the Executive up to a percentage ceiling established by the Budget Guidelines Law (LDO).
As a consequence of federalization of Czechoslovakia (1968), national councils of Czech and Slovak parts of the country were created.
The assembly is called Assemblée communale in the cantons of Bern and Fribourg, Assemblée primaire in the Valais and Conseil général in the canton of Vaud.
The building was used intermittently for sessions of the National Assembly during its troubled history from the aftermath of China's first national election to the Beijing Coup in October 1924.
Ten protesters were shot dead by police with 31 protesters injured and over 280 protesters arrested.
Construction began in February 1889 with the cornerstone laid by President Paul Kruger on 6 May that year, and the work was completed in December 1891.
Current composition After the elections of 29 May 2024, the new provincial legislatures met on 13 and 14 June 2024 to elect NCOP delegations.
Some of these votes, like the House's vote on President Clinton's welfare reform package (the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Act of 1996) are best modeled through the use of the first (economic liberal-conservative) dimension.
Democracy in Czechoslovakia ended in the Czechoslovak coup d'état of February 1948, where the Communist Party took power.
In 1940, unicameral Chamber of Representatives was formed, and since 1967 there has been a bicameral legislature.
Presidents of the Constituent National Assembly References External links Joint Czech-Slovak Digital Parliamentary Library
A further simplified technique involves piercing the crust repeatedly with the tines of a fork to produce small holes, allowing steam to escape and preventing the crust from bubbling up, but that does not work with soft doughs such as pâte sucrée.
Sponsorship In the past, the company has sponsored "bull riding events" and NASCAR races at Michigan International Speedway.
Awards In 1939, Angelo Motta was awarded Knight of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre, a prestigious Catholic chivalric order.
The dish consists of chicken pieces served with Portuguese sauce, which is likened to a mild yellow curry thickened with coconut milk.
In his 1872–1873 expedition to Silao, renowned British archaeologist Joseph David Beglar, talks about the sweet that dates back to King Vikramaditya and describes the sweetmeat.
It also has a cultural dimension and a Palestinian message to the world that they want their legitimate rights." The total diameter of the musakhan loaf was 4 meters, with a total weight of 1,350 kg.
"Si" Brown III Notes Business America is a United States government publication that analyzes and covers American business and economic issues.
Instead, they are simply warmed to between 3 and 5 °C (5 and 9 °F) above the coating's melting point.
Vitamin C (ascorbic acid) is the usual oxidizing agent; potassium bromate is still used in parts of the US but has been banned in California (effective 2027), the UK, and other countries.
At the age of thirteen, Eriksson moved back to Västerås, where he lived until his church confirmation.
The Belfast Operative Bakers' Union was a trade union representing bakery workers in Northern Ireland.
In 2006, the Betty Crocker catalog operation went out of business with all of its inventory on sale.
Other ingredients typically found in the basic breadcrumb mixture are: meat such as sausage, bacon or chouriço (Portuguese sausage), chili pepper, lemon juice, bell peppers, celery, onion, garlic, spices and herbs.
Preparation The clams, bacon, and other ingredients are cooked in various ways depending on the recipe, and then added with breading to half the clam shell and baked or broiled (grilled from above) to a golden brown.
Naming The dish is presumably named after Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington, but the precise origin of the name is unclear and the connection between them is unknown.
In one technique, the pie crust is lined with aluminium foil or parchment paper, then filled with pastry- or pie weights (sometimes called "baking beans") to ensure the crust retains its shape while baking.
The brand, which began as a small family operation, is based in Park City, Utah and ultimately expanded to market protein-enhanced pancake and waffle mixes, individual oatmeal, brownie mixes, frozen prepacked waffles, frozen prepacked pancakes, granola protein bars, and fruit syrups.
Williams, however, was not held personally liable for any of the damages, which totaled $1.1 million.
Top speakers, live demonstrations, merchandising ideas, and shelves of the hottest new products are just a taste of what the show offers.
New bakestones are seasoned by burning a mixture of lard or oil and salt, giving a non-stick surface and protecting against rust.
Apples were the only locally grown fruit in Germany that kept during the winter months, which made baked apples an economical choice for holiday desserts in the Christmas traditions of Germany or as a sweet main dish in cold weather.
Companies developed dedicated temperature control devices specifically for maintaining sourdough starters, addressing challenges that bakers had previously solved using improvised methods such as heating pads, warm ovens, or placement near appliances.
After their defeat in the Battle of Aljubarrota, the Castilian soldiers in flight were attacked and killed by the local inhabitants.
Blind baking a pie crust is necessary when it will be filled with an unbaked filling (such as with pudding or cream pies), in which case the crust must be fully baked.
In need of money, Eriksson, Olsdotter and Vestlund conspired to rob the Dunder couple on 11 December 1909.
In Lancashire and the West Riding of Yorkshire the spelling is bakstone and are primarily used to cook very thin, yeasted oatcakes or riddle bread.
Insects The pink stem borer (Sesamia inferens) and the finger millet shoot fly (Atherigona miliaceae) are considered as the most relevant insect pests in finger millet cultivation.
She went on to attend Meiji University of Integrative Medicine and graduated as a practitioner in acupuncture and moxibustion.
Methods and baking The techniques for making desem bread are similar to the techniques used for sourdough breads, but present unique challenges.
Alternatively, a couche (pronounced koosh), bakery couche, or proofing cloth, can be used on which to proof dough.
Many newly-homebound workers developed hobbies during the pandemic that they hadn't previously had time to pursue.
Rollatini is not an actual Italian word or dish; it is an Italian-American food based on the Italian dish involtini (e.g., involtini di melanzane).
See also List of eggplant dishes References External links Eggplant rollatini recipe from Everyday Italian, by Giada de Laurentiis
50-65°F, or 10-18°C) during the initial incubation period is important as higher temperatures may make the desem starter sour.
This yields a different texture from puff pastry, where rectangles of dough and fat are rolled and folded together in such a way that the result is a number of uniform sheets of pastry.
The acquisition made ConAgra the largest private-label packaged food business in the United States at that time.
Certification is a live, 8-hour, adjudicated test held in conjunction with the annual ICES Convention and Show.
Although it is undeniable that the story was a legend, Brites de Almeida came to be celebrated by the Portuguese in their songs and traditional stories and her deeds have remained as a symbol of Portugal's independence.
While getting a desem starter (a dough starter) going the first time can be challenging, keeping it going can be easier than sourdough starters (liquid starters).
The union became part of the Irish National Federal Union of Bakers in 1900, but it left again in 1905, with a slightly increased membership, which peaked at 693 in 1909.
Apples are the most widely grown fruit in Germany, used to prepare many dishes and beverages in German cuisine.
In 2003, Bob's Red Mill was a founding member of the Oldways Whole Grain Council, a food and nutrition nonprofit that promotes the use of whole grains.
The chunks of shortening keep the rolled particles of dough in the flaky pastry separate from each other, so that when the dough is baked they become flakes.
The 1923 edition of Le Répertoire de la Cuisine, a professional reference cookbook, mentions a "Wellington" recipe for beef: "Barded fillet browned in butter and in the oven, coated in poultry stuffing with dry duxelles added, placed in rolled-out puff pastry.
Food factories phased out the use of gramolas as high capacity processing lines became more prevalent with the advent of continuous production.
The smog in the city influenced Bob and his wife Charlee to sell the station, and move to Mammoth Lakes, a small resort town in the mountains about 300 miles (480 km) north of Los Angeles where he opened a second gas station.
Like other post-war livery halls in London, a Modernist architectural idiom was adopted while retaining a traditional layout of function rooms.
Millers use the Brabender Farinograph to access the properties of the flour, to ascertain whether changes need to be made in the mill.
Republican political blogs, to which Day and Chronister responded with the comment "Republicans like meat." Various attempts to create the dish have been made across the internet, in the form of fan clubs and follow-up videos.
The baker must refrain from kneading doughs for pastry or quick breads such as muffins, scones, and American-style biscuits in order to prevent the development of gluten, which would give the finished products a tough, rubbery texture.
The major national brands are Radeberger Pils (brewed in Radeberg near Dresden), Jever Pils (brewed in Jever); Clausthaler, an alcohol-free beer, and Schöfferhofer Weizen.
Pasta production The mechanical gramola machines prevalent in pasta factories in the early 1900s used giant rollers, usually with a fluted surface, for kneading by pressing on the dough as it passed under the rollers.
The ICES is a nonprofit organization dedicated to preserving, advancing and encouraging exploration of the sugar arts.
The battle resulted in a decisive victory for the Portuguese, putting an end to Castilian ambitions to take over the Portuguese throne.
Pie-weights are available as ceramic or metal beads, but rice, dried peas, lentils, "baking beans", or other pulses can be used instead.
The original hall was a mansion previously owned by John Chichele, a 15th-century Chamberlain of London, which was purchased by the Company upon his death.
Thereafter she attended various culinary schools around the world such as Bellouet Conseil in France, The Culinary Institute of America, Valrhona Chocolate School in France, and received training under various French chefs visiting Japan.
Some contemporary versions will shape the dish into rolls rather than the traditional layered setup, with thin saj bread instead of the much thicker taboon bread, other contemporary versions make it into a fatteh.
While there was a profusion of this type of menu offering (often with the meat taken out of the shell, prepared with sauce, and returned to the shell), clams casino and oysters Rockefeller "are among the few surviving dishes from the shellfish fad".
The increased interest in sourdough baking during the pandemic led to innovation in specialized equipment for home bakers.
In addition to educating their members, they also offer opportunities for professional development through scholarships, grants, and the IDDBA Career Center.
A pro-Catholic activist during the anticlerical period under President Plutarco Elías Calles, he was captured by government forces, and was executed for refusing to renounce his position.
Workers were well-paid, worked a 40-hour maximum week, unusual for the time, and all received free bread.
Ekberg 1852−1952 (1952) Rafael Hertzberg, Helsingfors för trehundra år sedan och i våra dagar (1888) Bo Lönnqvist, Bakelser i Helsingfors.
Whitley was also co-author of a study which studied the effects of differently fermented breads on cultures of colonic bacteria.
In 1872 he opened a bakery in Greenhill Street and also acquired an existing bakery in Elderslie Street.
It derives from Mughal cuisine, as the Mughals brought the tandoor oven from Central Asia and the Persian habit of marinating meat in yoghurt, combined with the Indian habit of cooking with spices.
The rules for topping a tlayuda are not strict, and restaurants and street vendors often offer a variety of toppings, including "'tasajo" (cuts of meat typical of the Central Valley of Oaxaca), chorizo, and cecina enchilada (thin strips of chili powder-encrusted pork).
Brites de Almeida, known as the Baker of Aljubarrota (Portuguese: Padeira de Aljubarrota), is a legendary figure and Portuguese heroine whose name is associated with the victory of the Portuguese, against Castilian forces, at the Battle of Aljubarrota in 1385.
Oetker is selling all shares and rights to a new plant that was built in Belgorod, Russia, shortly before the war started to Russian managing directors.
Using water from boiled potatoes is said to increase the activity of the bacteria by providing additional starch.
This effect is typically used in products having one large cavity, such as popovers, Yorkshire puddings, pita, and most preparations made from choux pastry.
Kneading can be performed by hand (the traditional way), with a mixer equipped with a dough hook, or with a bread machine.
Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1954 (scholarly history of General Mills, including the invention of Crocker).
Preparation Starter Unlike sourdough starters which are exposed to outside air, the desem starter is grown in a bed of flour (3-4 inches of flour surrounding the ball of dough made from fresh wheat flour and pure water).
Ralcorp Holdings is an American manufacturer of various food products, including breakfast cereal, cookies, crackers, chocolate, snack foods, mayonnaise, pasta, and peanut butter.
Beef Wellington is a baked dish made out of beef tenderloin and duxelles wrapped in shortcrust pastry.
Another method of knocking back (also known as "folding") is to gently stretch and pat out the proved dough before folding the sides in towards the centre.
World records On April 20, 2010, the largest ever dish of musakhan was prepared in Ramallah and was entered into the Guinness Book of World Records.
Stuffed clams (or stuffies) are popular in New England, especially in Rhode Island, and consist of a breadcrumb and minced clam mixture that is baked on the half shell of a quahog hard shell clam.
Flaky pastry relies on large lumps of butter (approximately 1 in or 2.5 cm across) mixed into the dough, as opposed to the large rectangle of butter in puff pastry.
Now largely ceremonial and charitable, these crafts and guilds formerly fulfilled the role of regulation much of which is now covered by local government.
The primary units of the farinograph are Brabender Units, an arbitrary unit of measuring the viscosity of a fluid.
The 2010 US winner The Essential New York Times Cookbook: Classic Recipes for a New Century by Amanda Hesser also contained the recipe for the Bacon Explosion.
Once formed the starter is maintained by a process of periodically 'feeding' it with flour and water and a portion of it is added as needed to dough to raise the bread.
Barm, as a leaven, has also been made from ground millet combined with must out of wine-tubs and is sometimes used in English baking as a synonym for a natural leaven (sourdough).
After graduating, she worked at Tokyo Jiyugaoka Hospital as a chiropractor and practitioner of moxibustion.
Until his death he was the Commander of Martin Fire Brigades, the Commander of the Land Fire-brigade Union, which covered almost all fire brigades in Slovakia.
The Afghan variant is less spicy than those in the Indian subcontinent, and can use beef and lamb in place of chicken.
Chef Alton Brown states in the "Shell Game" episode of his Food Network series Good Eats that Alciatore took his recipe to the grave and any version since is merely an assumption.
Seasonings may include sweeteners such as brown sugar, honey, maple syrup, or fruit preserves; spices such as cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, aniseed, and mace; butter; and liquids such as brandy, calvados, or wine.
Peak time – Peak time is reached at the highest point on the curve, and indicates when the dough has reached is maximum viscosity before gluten strands begin to break down.
(To aid gluten production, many recipes use bread flour, which is higher in protein than all-purpose flour.) The kneading process warms and stretches these gluten strands, eventually creating a springy and elastic dough.
She named the dish after the hotel, and word and popularity of the dish has since spread across the United States, including New Orleans, where oysters are substituted for clams.
Finger millet blast can be controlled with cultural measures, chemical treatments, and the use of resistant varieties.
It is used as a lower-cost alternative to pure chocolate, as it has less-expensive hard vegetable fats such as coconut oil or palm kernel oil in place of the more expensive cocoa butter.
Focused in the dairy, deli, and bakery industries, they promote growth through the exchange of ideas, inspiration, and information.
In 1931 Schmidt received an order of the French Minister of Economy for his contribution in the economic area.
Later life Eriksson's return to freedom was full of hardship; he had a difficult time finding work as a farm hand in Stockholm.
Ralcorp manufactures many store-brand foods that are sold in grocery outlets across the United States under the retailers' private labels.
At the end of 2004, Phillips left Disney "to pursue [his] own interests." Since that time, Phillips has produced more content for his Brackenwood setting, including Prowlies at the River, which in 2006 was said to be in the Top 10 Most Influential Online Flash Shorts.
Plateau Sign Language, or Old Plateau Sign Language, is a poorly attested, extinct sign language historically used across the Columbian Plateau.
Such an origin is credited to two children — Ed "Squirrel" Clement and Lank McGimsey — who started making up words in the summer of 1890.
Social science In public health, he advocated establishing a medical administrative authority, with powers over epidemiology and veterinary medicine.
Langmaker is a website run by Jeffrey Henning that acts as a database of conlangs, neographies, and other resources related to conlanging and conworlding.
Pronouns Pronouns are changed as: *herself/himself/itself/themselves There is an old pronoun egui which is a personal, sex-neutral pronoun.
This was published without the characters in 1921, and the manuscript with characters was deposited in the library of Cambridge University.
He began not only discussing and commenting on conlangs but also cataloguing them in a comprehensive database, with overviews of the languages and links to their respective websites.
Punctuation Adlam punctuation is like Spanish in that there are initial and final forms of the question mark and exclamation mark, which are placed before and after the questioned or exclaimed clause or phrase.
Syllabic laterals and trills are represented with duplication of the ordinary lateral and trill graphemes.
Jovan Vladimir's Church in central Albania, but is preserved today at the National Archives of Albania in Tirana.
As a result, this has fostered a hierarchical student-teacher relationship so that the teacher can better manage the class.
She compared what she found with recordings of non-Christian rituals from Africa, Borneo, Indonesia and Japan.
Consequently, students do not properly learn how to express themselves and instead mistakenly believe that the study of English is the study of translation between English and Chinese.
Confusion of sense relations in the set includes the improper use of superonym for hyponym, hyponym for superonym, a whole word for a partial word, a partial word for a whole word, antonym, confusion of co-hyponyms, and misuse of near-synonyms.
palasokeri [p-ala/s-okeri] 'sugar lump' → salapokeri [s-ala/p-okeri] 'playing poker in secret' (*solapakeri would not mean anything).
This is in part due to differing preferences for names of Korea: North Korea refers to the whole of Korea as Chosŏn, while South Korea uses Hanguk.
Only one book has ever been published using the script which is A Malawi Tili Pati ("Malawians, where are we?") by Nolence Mwangwego himself in Chichewa in 2011.
Some Sindarin (and Noldorin) nouns of one syllable form the plural with an ending (usually -in), e.g.
Adjuvilo is a constructed language created in 1910 by Claudius Colas under the pseudonym of "Profesoro V.
The loudest phoneme in the language is a porcine snort, transcribed with a "double-dot wide O" (Ꙫ) at Speculative Grammarian.
Wolfe is best known for his Book of the New Sun series (four volumes, 1980–1983), the first part of his "Solar Cycle".
It is spoken by the Drushek, a species residing in the mountains of the fictional continent of Kryslan.
The Crow Tribe introduced Plains Sign Talk, which replaced Plateau Sign Language among the eastern nations that used it (the Coeur d’Alene, Sanpoil, Okanagan, Thompson, Lakes, Shuswap, and Colville), with western nations shifting instead to Chinook Jargon.
References External links Proposal for Encoding the Mwangwego Script, Unicode Article on designing a font for the script, Endangered Alphabets
It was presented to public in 1921 by the Berlin architect Tiemer as a pure literary language and should be used for automated translations.
Using gestures and objects, not asking questions in a language that the person might know, Pike would begin to analyze the language before the audience.
Also, Finnish inflectional and derivational morphology is extensive, thus applying a suffix from another word often produces a valid word.
Bliss, C.K., Semantography-Blissymbolics: A Simple System of 100 Logical Pictorial Symbols, Which can be Operated and Read Like 1+2=3 in All Languages...
After the takeover of the website, the owner regained control in 2022 making the site available through a Tor network endpoint until 2023.
In recent years, several poems originally written in Esperanto have been rendered into Transpiranto by Martin Weichert, and have been published in the Swedish Esperanto journal La Espero, and via the internet.
The syllabary did not distinguish all the syllables of the Vai language until the 1960s when the University of Liberia added distinctions by modifying certain glyphs with dots or extra strokes to cover all CV syllables in use.
It is reputedly based on the Bamum script, though the numerals show more resemblance to Bamum than the syllabograms do, and it does not appear to be a direct descendant.
In 1937 Pike went to the University of Michigan, where he worked for his doctorate in linguistics under Charles C.
The author presents a world-wide collection of case studies in visible language signage systems, including LoCoS.
Notes ^α Esperanto: Konstituo de nova tekstversio de la Helena romanverkisto Akilo Tacio ^β Also published as "A Tentative Grammar of Mycenaean Greek".
Images The Volapük Wikipedia holds no files locally, relying strictly on Wikimedia Commons for images, sound, and other media files.
Eugen Wüster Detlev Blanke Cyrill Robert Brosch Sabine Fiedler Humphrey Tonkin Federico Gobbo (it.wikipedia) Aleksandr Dulichenko William Auld John C.
Europanto ist uno melangio van de meer importantes europese linguas mit also eine poquito van andere europese linguas, sommige latinus, sommige old grec.
He studied Modern History at Worcester College, Oxford, before serving in the British Army during World War II.
Baumann was also a member of the Provisional National Council of Bavaria (the predecessor of the Landtag of Bavaria after the House of Wittelsbach was deposed in the German Revolution of 1918–1919) from 8 November 1918 to 4 January 1919.
Combined with "solar", the name reads as "the light of the sun", and demonstrates the artist's affinity for the universal source of light and energy.
This is bad for communicative learning because there is a lot of emphasis on written and reading proficiency instead which perpetuates the Mute English phenomenon.
Nonetheless, the film has received very positive reviews from critics, with many likening it to films by Andrei Tarkovsky.
One essay describing a modern revival of Tut on TikTok characterizes the practice as subject to “secrecy and gatekeeping,” and reports that some participants argue it should remain within African-American descendant communities due to a history of cultural appropriation.
Finally, the Eskayan script is influenced by the Roman alphabet and bears strong similarities to 19th-century Copperplate handwriting.
See also Standard Average European Esperanto Interlingua Interlanguage Transpiranto Polandball Notes and references External links "Europe – Linguistic virus let loose on English", News, UK: BBC, November 23, 1998.
No est englando, no est germano, no est espano, no est franzo, no est keine known lingua aber du under stande!
The Drushek are culturally and linguistically homogeneous, but there are other languages spoken on Kryslan, including Umod and Elasin, by two other sentient species,.
Budinos originates in an initiative from ethnofuturists in Udmurtia from the perspective that foreign languages are insufficient to fully communicate the Finno-Ugric world view in full, according to ethnofuturist thinking.
The other parts of speech further split into smaller sections in the book are "Verbs", "Complements" and "Prepositional Conjunctions".
Its purpose was to address perceived problems resulting from "massive flood of additions from bots", but as of July 2014, it remains a proposal and is still in the process of gathering consensus for adoption.
Internal timeline In Tolkien's words: "Sindarin (Grey-elven) is properly the name of the languages of the Elvish inhabitants of Beleriand, the later almost drowned land west of the Blue Mountains.
Medical research In most cases tongues speakers have no underlying neuropsychiatric disorder precipitating the manifestations, although it rarely occurs in neurogenic conditions.
Seton presents Tutnee alongside many Native American stereotypes but does not mention its African American origin.
Origins The Anderson Valley, of which Boonville is the largest town, was an isolated farming, ranching, and logging community during the late 19th century.
Esperanto II or Esperanto 2 was a reform of Esperanto proposed by René de Saussure in 1937, the last of a long series of such proposals beginning with a 1907 response to Ido with a project called Lingwo Internaciona, later called Antido 1.
1 Cor 12, 13, 14, Paul discusses speaking in "various kinds of tongues" as part of his wider discussion of the gifts of the Spirit; his remarks shed some light on his own speaking in tongues as well as how the gift of speaking in tongues was to be used in the church.
The complement is an adjective when modifying a noun or pronoun and an adverb when qualifying any other word.
She gained a PhD in linguistics, and was the first UCSD student ever to write two dissertations (on English and Navajo).
Structure The work is in five parts, of which the fourth contains the discussion of the "real character" and "philosophical language".
The Volapük Wikipedia (Volapük: Vükiped Volapükik) is the Volapük-language edition of the free online encyclopedia Wikipedia.
Although most zonal auxiliary languages are based on European language families, they should not be confused with "Euroclones", a pejorative term for languages intended for global use but based primarily on European material.
History According to speakers, the Eskaya language and script were creations of Pinay, the ancestor of the Eskaya people, who was inspired by human anatomy.
During the 20th century, however, a few schematic projects have emerged as well, such as Slovanština (Edmund Kolkop, 1912), Neposlava (Vsevolod Cheshikhin, 1915), Slavski jezik (Bohumil Holý, 1920) and Slovio (Mark Hučko, 1999).
Budinos is a constructed language designed to be an international auxiliary language for speakers of Finno-Ugric languages.
They also differ from atoms by their complete mutual independence, so that interactions among monads are only apparent.
In March 2017, Phillips announced the full-time development of a new Brackenwood branded game called Dashkin, a revival of the previous Dashkin game project he had been working on with McGee.
At one point, Adams served as writer-in-residence at the University of Florida and at Hollins University in Virginia.
Composition and influences The stimulus for Wilkins to write the Essay came from the Council of the Royal Society, in 1662.
The Ariyaka alphabet was invented by King Mongkut (Rama IV) of Siam (1804–1868) as an alternative script for Pali.
The Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America named him its 29th SFWA Grand Master in December 2012; the annual Damon Knight Memorial Grand Master Award was presented to Wolfe during Nebula Awards weekend, May 16–19, 2013.
Until the beginning of the 20th century, all projects were characterized by a heavily naturalistic grammar, based directly or indirectly on Old Church Slavonic.
At the same time, Blitz saw a slide show of the Austro-Hungarian North Pole Expedition which inspired him to study engineering to improve technology for ordinary people.
The wall behind the statue is inscribed with the following phrase: "If liberty means anything at all, it means the right to tell people what they do not want to hear".
The addendum of 1992 contains some new grammatical details and a list of about 200 new words that appeared in or were created for later movies and in the television series Star Trek: The Next Generation.
Vowels The vowel graphemes (onkamisa) form the basis of each ibheqe or syllable block, as the nucleus of each syllable, with the ongwaqa or consonant graphemes positioned in and around them.
Spelling is attempted to be made to be morphophonemic, although there is some uncertainty around how to do this.
It is pronounced like the German ö.) -aŭ becomes -ez (-aŭ-adverb such as baldaŭ, etc.) -a becomes -am (sg.
Budinos builds mainly on Udmurt and Hungarian but also has features from Finnish, Estonian, Mari, and other related languages.
E.g., the Eskayan memorya ('sky') does not coincide semantically with the Spanish memoria ('memory').
häipyvät tavut [hä-ipyvät ta-vut] → [ta-ipyvät hä-vut] → taipuvat hävyt That is, transformation is A, U, O into Ä, Y, Ö, if the former do not begin the word.
Adjuvilo also uses the same orthography as Ido: the 26 letters as the English alphabet and ISO Basic Latin alphabet with three digraphs and no ligatures or diacritics.
the first Esperanto derivative, published the year after Esperanto was introduced in the Unua Libro.
He used terms such as grawlixes for his own amusement, but they soon began to catch on and acquired an unexpected validity.
Her husband Zbigniew Galor (1952-2017) was a university lecturer in sociology in Szczecin, an Esperantist and President of the Polish branch of the AIS.
Koutny is an associate professor at the International Academy of Sciences San Marino (AIS; Esperanto: Akademio Internacia de la Sciencoj), member of ILEI, CED.
See also Klingon grammar Klingons The Klingon Way List of Star Trek reference books Alien language References External links Klingon Language Institute Klingon Dictionary for iPhone
Adalbert Baumann (10 February 1870 – 6 December 1943), was a German gymnasium teacher, politician, and historian.
These languages were created for chauvinistic purposes, specifically for the aim of implementing German as a lingua franca in post-World War One Europe.
Languages written in the script include ones that have no standardised Latin orthography, such as Eastern Sotho languages like sePulana and the majority of the Tekela languages.
Its 59 pages contain Biblical content written in a script of 40 letters, of which 35 frequently re-occur and 5 are rare.
The script was launched with significant publicity especially with an audience from Malawian Minister of Youth, Sports and Culture, Mr Kamangadazi Chambalo, was quoted as saying: Mwangwego script is in itself history in the making.
The first person to learn the script was Mwandipa Chimaliro; ten other students that year learned the script as well who went on to teach others.
The joined form is commonly used in a cursive manner; however, separate or block forms are also used as primarily for educational content.
Ondolin(dë)) with simple replacement of g-, not Goenlin or Goenglin [as it would have been in standard Sindarin]".
Dites, hites and vites: straight lines drawn across flat, clear and reflective surfaces, such as windows and mirrors.
Comparison to Ido Adjuvilo completely eliminates a special ending for the accusative case, whereas in Ido it was still used in sentences beginning with the object.
He returned to London to meet up with his mother and aunt, with whom he traveled to Paris, Turin (again), Genoa, and his mother's native Zoagli.
The alphabet, like the manuscript, is named after the city of Elbasan, where it was invented, and although the manuscript isn't the oldest document written in Albanian, Elbasan is the oldest out of seven known original alphabets created for Albanian.
The explosion was described as one of the largest bombing investigations that the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has investigated in Southern California since the Aliso Viejo package bombing that killed one person and seriously injured two others in 2018.
In September 1979, all charges against him were retracted, and he was made honorary president of Peking University.
The IPPF is working alongside the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS (UNAIDS) to promote preventions and treatments.
In 1938 she published a collection of her late husband's work under the title "Pensieri e Battaglie" ("Thoughts and Fights") in a volume which included an introduction by Emma Goldman.
Chairperson of the IFPA, Dr Andrew Rynne, was the first person to be prosecuted under this law, for selling condoms to a patient in 1983 (on a weekend, when the pharmacies were closed).
Prevalence of child marriage is an attributing factor to the fertility rates in India as women ages 20–24 reported that they had never used contraception prior to giving birth or within their first year of marriage.
The judges praised Blau for a daring, nonconformist style, that is at the same time connected to tradition and religious life.
On May 17, 2025, a car bombing occurred at a reproductive center in Palm Springs, California, United States, killing the perpetrator, and injuring four others.
Shechter frequently lectures on the college circuit, screening her films for audiences across the U.S, Canada, and internationally.
Criticism In 2018, Södersjukhuset, a hospital in Stockholm, Sweden, filed a complaint with the Medical Products Agency of Sweden after 37 women who had been using Natural Cycles as their primary method of contraception sought an abortion at the hospital after becoming pregnant unintentionally.
See also Birth control movement in the United States Demography Sustainable development Rockefeller family Mifepristone (RU-486) Human overpopulation References Further reading Memoirs, David Rockefeller, New York: Random House, 2002.
Workers' Birth Control Group was a British organisation which sought to enable working class women to access birth control information and treatment, safely and free of charge.
Lisovskii was forced to flee Russia in February 2022 by the Russian law enforcement forces, moving into exile in Indonesia.
The movement states that a decrease in the human population would prevent a significant amount of human-caused suffering.
Indian Health Services The Indian Health Services (IHS) is a government organization created in 1955 to help combat poor health and living conditions of Native Americans and Alaska Natives.
The policy was announced on 31 May 2021 at a meeting of the Politburo of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), chaired by CCP General Secretary Xi Jinping, on population aging.
She became an expert in the treatment of infertility, treating both men and women and serving some of the royal families in the Middle East.
In March 1981, the Queensland Premier, Sir Joh Bjelke-Petersen, stated that: NSW has become an object lesson in so many ways for other States on what you must not do if you wish to maintain decent standards.
While it is logically possible to state that the absence of pleasures in Scenario B is bad (just as the absence of pains is good), he argues that we should not make this claim.
The Pearl Index is only accurate as a statistical estimation of per-year risk of pregnancy if the pregnancy rate in the study was very low.
According to a 2020 study by the NAFI Analytical Center, 46% of Russians aged 18 to 45 do not want to have children.
The etonogestrel implant, also called the contraceptive implant, or known by trade names Nexplanon or Implanon is one type of progestin-releasing birth control device implanted under the skin.
Since 2021, the organisation has set up and run local groups, delivered webinars and face to face presentations, written articles and campaigned locally and nationally to improve care for those who are AWOC.
References "When Parents Get Priority" Guardian July 5, 2004 "Baby, what Shall I Do?" Observer May 9, 2004 "The Rise of the 'Childfree'" BBC News March 31, 2006 External links Kidding Aside website
Depo-Provera was used on intellectually disabled Native American women before it gained clearance from the FDA in 1992.
the development of male-specific or unisex contraceptives." Past research efforts Many researchers have attempted to develop male contraceptive products over the last hundred years.
Despite the availability of highly effective contraceptives, in 2011, 45% of pregnancies were unintended.
Treating disease and douching Vaginal syringes were used to treat maladies such as leucorrhea or disease of the "pelvic viscera" by injecting water or water and chemicals into the vagina.
Following the introduction of the bill, Blackmon received death threats and subsequently stated that the bill was made in jest.
In May 1958, Sweden agreed to provide $80,000 to distribute contraceptives in two communities in Ceylon.
In 2019 AWWOC, lacking funds, passed its assets to The PRAMA Foundation who kept the issue and the website live.
References External links Martha Voegeli papers at the Sophia Smith Collection, Smith College Special Collections Correspondence with Indian government
Bundling: a courtship tradition in some Christian communities that was opposed by the religious right and has largely died out.
It also works to promote the childfree lifestyle as a legitimate and equal alternative to parenthood, and campaigns for equality of opportunity for childfree people in employment and with regard to UK tax legislation.
The purpose of using a chemical mixture was to interrupt the path of sperm and stop a woman from getting pregnant.
Short films #SlutWalkNYC (2013) In "#SlutWalkNYC", Shechter documents the controversial global, grassroots anti-rape movement on the day it filled the streets of New York City.
Further, current contraceptive use data show that more than a quarter of women worldwide already rely on male-controlled methods for contraception (such as condoms and vasectomy), and this figure could grow as more male contraceptive methods become available.
Factors influencing population control Population control can be influenced by a variety of factors.
Communicable diseases and contaminated resources like water and consequently food, plague developing countries.
After being educated at Auckland Grammar School, he attended Auckland University College, earning an LLB.
Contraceptive methods A 2014 report found that the pill remains the most widely used contraceptive method (27%) followed by injectables (12%), condoms (6%) and female sterilization (5%).
There is a slight risk for pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections (STIs) with certain non-penetrative sex acts.
the most fertile couples getting pregnant and dropping out of the study early, and couples becoming more skilled at using the method as time goes on), and in this way is superior to the Pearl Index.
This concession could at least in part be attributed to regional efforts by branches of the WBCG, who put pressure on local authorities.
His birth home is being renovated as a museum, and the street on which it resides is now called "Famous Man Street".
However, fertility is note solely dependent on contraceptive use, but also on use-effectiveness and user adherence.
When Shechter returned from Sundance, she enrolled in a documentary workshop with filmmaker Macky Alston at Union Theological Seminary.
O'Brien's views, however, clashed with those of conservatives in the Catholic Church, who promoted total abstinence as exemplified by the encyclical Casti connubii (1930), which restated the objection to artificial conception.
Mammary intercourse: the stimulation of the penis by placing the penis between the breasts and moving the penis up and down to simulate penetration and to create pleasure.
Nationally, the scholar is featured prominently in primary and middle school textbooks as "Uncle Ma", where he is praised for his contributions to population control and environmental protection.
True Relationships & Reproductive Health, or more commonly known as True, (previously Family Planning Queensland or FPQ) is a non-profit organisation that promotes sexual and reproductive health to Queensland, a state in Australia.
They are: "Sex in Life: Young Men", by Douglas White and Dr Otto May; "Sex in Life: Young Women", by Violet D Swaisland and Mary B Douie, and "What Parents Should Tell Their Children", by Mary Scharlieb and Kenneth Wills.
It is thought to be the first politically active childfree movement in the world and strives to introduce the childfree voice into relevant British political debate.
In 1945, Abouchdid began a three-year stint of postgraduate training in the U.S., gaining experience at Johns Hopkins University, Duke University and Columbia University.
Side effects Rarely, the device may migrate out of its typical location under the skin of the upper arm.
Single and childfree, she was quoted as saying, "I wrote an entire thriller to understand why it works for me." As part of her Sherut Leumi (National service) she volunteered in The Hedva Ibshitz Centre for the Study of the Holocaust, where she worked as a guide and documented Holocaust survivors.
Bartkus reportedly identified himself as the perpetrator of the bombing in a video posted online, in which he described himself as a "pro-mortalist", saying in a manifesto that people did not give consent to exist.
Auden was proud of having been the first person to use the terms Princeton rub and Princeton first-year in print.
South Korea South Korea has the most serious problem of unintended pregnancy among developed countries.
In this regard, during the 2020 National People's Congress (NPC) session, NPC deputy Huang Xihua suggested removing the penalty policy for having more than three children.
Silodosin and Tamsulosin are α1-adrenoceptor antagonists approved to treat Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia, and their ejaculation-blocking effects have been evaluated in humans.
However, the Bureau grew as a teaching center, offering seminars, research projects and clinical work for visiting doctors, nurses, and medical students.
She has won numerous awards from Society for News Design, the New York and Toronto Art Director's Clubs, and a Peter Lisagor award from the Chicago Headline Club.
The RHA claimed to have published the booklets but they were really produced in London by the British Social Hygiene Council in the 1920s and were reissued by the RHA in the 1930s (without permission).
Sterilization is popular in older age groups, among those 45-49, 29% of men and 21% of women have been sterilized.
One US study, based on self-reported data from the 2006–2010 cycle of the National Survey of Family Growth, found significant differences in failure rate based on parity status.
Contraindications There are very few relative or absolute contraindications to the etonogestrel implant.
Her third book, "Stake", (Hebrew: "Yated", 2014), was written while Blau was performing her one-woman show, "Thy Shall Write".
Quiverfull advocates such as Rick and Jan Hess and Rachel Giove Scott believe that the Devil deceives Christian couples into using birth control so that children God otherwise willed to create are prevented from being born.
During this time, with the assistance of 9 volunteers, she experimented with a process of heat-based contraception.
In the United States, contraception had been legal throughout most of the 19th century, but in the 1870s the Comstock Act and various state Comstock laws outlawed the distribution of information about safe sex and contraception and the use of contraceptives.
The plant only grew on a small strip of land near the coastal city of Cyrene (located in modern-day Libya) and all attempts to cultivate it elsewhere resulted in failure.
It is the only national, independently accredited safe abortion, vasectomy and contraception provider in the country.
This spacing of intervals is supported by an international study that found that more adverse events occurred during the perinatal period.
CFCtoo argues that such laws are necessary to combat the Quiverfull movement's propensity for "incest, child sexual abuse, and systematic abuse coverups based on a twisted understanding of biblical forgiveness." Notable adherents Doug Phillips, a Calvinist Christian and the son of U.S.
Others may be estranged from their families or have children who live very far away and are thus unable to help.
Background The American Reproductive Centers in Palm Springs is a fertility clinic operated by American Reproductive Centers, which provides in vitro fertilization, genetic testing, and egg donation services.
MSI Reproductive Choices as an organisation lobbies in favour of access to abortion, and provides a variety of sexual and reproductive healthcare services including advice, vasectomies, and abortions in the UK and other countries where it is legal to do so.
It also emphasised the imperative of professional confidentiality, including if "abnormal sexual proclivities" (meaning homosexuality) were disclosed.
The culture and demographics of the population being studied, and the instruction technique used to teach the method, have significant effects on its failure rate.
His involvement in the issue led his wife, Angela Heywood to speak openly about birth control and feminine hygiene as a woman's "natural right." Others, like Sarah Chase, were arrested for selling vaginal syringes as a method of birth control.
Actual failure rates are higher than perfect-use rates for a variety of reasons: Mistakes on the part of those providing instructions on how to use the method.
Other methods Spermicides come in various forms such as: gels, foams, creams, film, suppositories, or tablets.
As well as a significant number of Catholics in major trade union groups, the Catholic John Wheatley was an influential figure in the party's leadership.
Crusader for Sex Education: Elise Ottesen-Jensen (1886–1973) in Scandinavia and on the International Scene.
While Campbell is in measure responsible for formulating Quiverfull ideas, the movement sparked most fully after the 1985 publication of Mary Pride's book The Way Home: Beyond Feminism, Back to Reality.
The use of withdrawal varied by the unmarried man's age and cohabiting status, but not by ethnicity or race.
South Africa, Botswana, and Zimbabwe have successful family planning programs, but other central and southern African countries continue to encounter extreme difficulties in achieving higher contraceptive prevalence and lower fertility for a wide variety of compounding reasons.
An oral contraceptive was also introduced in 2005 for the control of Canada geese, but abandoned in 2011 due to regulatory barriers and pressure from hunting groups.
These organizations work to provide contraceptive security in numerous countries via donations, tools, policies and frameworks.
Whereas in the past, it was taboo to declare that one does not want children, this decision is now increasingly common and accepted in British society.
Camillo Berneri was betrayed by a comrade called Ermanno Menapace who turned out to be a spy for the Italian security service.
Conception Begins at Erection Act In Feb 2025, Ohio House of Representatives Anita Somani and Tristan Rader stated they would introduce a similar bill dubbed "Conception Begins at Erection Act." See also Every Sperm Is Sacred Natalism == References ==
See also Avabai Bomanji Wadia Birth control movement in the United States Cecile Richards References External links Official website IPPF's organisation by regions
Success rate in preventing unwanted pregnancy “This class of case is so common that I feel like apologizing for referring to it...
So the longer the study length, the lower the Pearl Index will be – and comparisons of Pearl Indexes from studies of different lengths cannot be accurate.
In many cases, as contraceptives became more available, the rate of unintended pregnancy and abortion dropped rapidly during the 1990s.
Barrier methods are also often combined with spermicides, which have possible side effects of genital irritation, vaginal infection, and urinary tract infection.
There was difficulty in obtaining contraceptives; Joyce Neill, Chairwoman of the Northern Ireland Family Planning Association, helped by arranging that doctors who lived near the border would drive across into Donegal and post contraceptives to Dublin.
Kidding Aside (The British Childfree Association) was founded in 2000 and exists in order to campaign for the rights of British childfree people.
Smartface Designer, the component of Smartface Platform enables visual development of mobile applications with drag-and-drop actions and interactive wizards.
History Nomad was launched in 2020 and is a business line of LotusFlare, Inc., a telecommunications software development company founded by former Facebook and Microsoft engineers.
History Route Mobile was started in Mumbai in May 2004 as a cloud communications platform provider for over the top (OTT) and mobile network operators (MNO).
The Maltese operation included a full core network that interconnected to a number of operators, in particular with Vodafone Malta in order to launch a number of MVNOs in Malta.
The benefit is that the user will have the best user-experience on every platform since it uses the correct/native UI elements instead of creating custom elements.
In 2016, Nazara tied up with Indian comics company Amar Chitra Katha to develop mobile games on Tinkle characters like Shikari Shambu.
The ZNAP mobile app was available for Apple iOS, Google Android, and BlackBerry OS supported devices.
“Such injunctions allow the court to restrain a party subject to its jurisdiction from proceeding in a foreign court in circumstances that are unjust.” E.
Around the same time, a compact charger gained popularity online for its cylindrical "lipstick" design.
For automation and application lifecycle management, it uses a workflow-based system where developers can configure steps with a visual interface and add steps from a component marketplace called integrations.
In 2008, Promate became an Apple MFi Certified brand with a dedicated R&D and Design center in Shenzhen-China.
Legal Parents and employers use legal monitoring software to check their teens' and staff's internet use.
That year, 49% of the company's revenue came from businesses using its software and 51% from consumers making in-app purchases.
In September 2010, the company moved their headquarters north to Fountain Valley, California - where in June 2011, they became an over-the-counter (finance) quoted company under the stock symbol: MEDL.
Medio is built on a cloud-based Hadoop platform and is designed to interpret big data for mobile enterprise.
It partnered with companies including Idea Cellular, Lanka Bell, and Arab Financials Services for providing messaging services in India, Sri Lanka, Middle East and North Africa region.
The service includes coverage in more than 150 countries, prepaid pricing models, and digital activation through the company’s online platform.
The core component of the Titanium software ecosystem is the Apache-licensed software development kit, Titanium SDK.
Because of this the court granted an injunction against Samsung and ordered Samsung to cease infringement.
More recently, the company has been delivering services to Enterprises, Manufacturers and other MVNEs (SURFnet, and has announced partnerships with other companies for the use of eSIM in IoT initiatives (IDEMIA, Oracle).
Later that month, Unity's board rejected the offer and committed to complete its acquisition of ironSource.
PriceCheck - A mobile data collection application that allows reps to collect in-store pricing and validate it with a two-stage data validation process.
Security researcher Robert Xiao, who discovered the vulnerability, stated that the LocationSmart API failed to implement basic checks and that the vulnerability could have been found by anyone with little effort.
History Flurry was launched in 2005 by entrepreneurs Sean Byrnes, Dan Scholnick, and Gabriel Vanrenen.
The company raised $80 million in Series E funding, with a valuation of $850 million, and opened an office in Singapore.
On March 30, 2017, the company announced a new agreement to sell FL Mobile for RMB 4 billion along with Beijing Showself for RMB 1.23 million to Tongfang Investment Fund Series SPC, an affiliate of Tsinghua Tongfang.
A study, presented at the USENIX Security Symposium, found that traffic from Holafly eSIMs was sometimes routed through Chinese and other undisclosed networks.
A 2012 investigation by Vulnerability Lab found that Mobile Spy contained multiple security flaws that allowed attackers to inject malicious code via SMS and potentially hijack a user’s monitoring session.
During the next couple of years, the company focused on the expansion of its SMS messaging service, and created and patented the software MailText.
Bugsense expanded to supporting more than 30000 developers and companies, including Samsung, SoundCloud, and Trulia and has a market share of 3.43% of all apps.
The agreement provided for the acquisition of DDR's proprietary location-based mobile marketing solution called ValuText and the opportunity for MobileBits to distribute Samy through 450 shopping centers.
The Flurry analytics and advertising platform really started to take off with the advent of the iPhone, with its own App Store, and soon after Flurry became the de facto analytics platform for mobile apps.
It was designed to compete with dictionary-based predictive systems such as T9 and iTap which were commonly used with mobile phones with 12-key telephone keypads.
("Showself") to provide entertainment and dating platforms on mobile internet, and established Beijing NQ Mobile Co., Ltd.
Airship (software company), formerly Urban Airship, is a San Francisco, California-based company founded in Portland, Oregon, that offers mobile customer experience and messaging services.
In addition, roaming subscribers in South Sudan were able to use the Zain- South Sudan network at a time when other networks were facing difficulties in accommodating roaming subscribers.
After closing the Series-A funding in January 2008, the company soon changed its name to SpiderCloud Wireless.
Apteligent is widely adopted, with over 9 billion monthly app launches and integration into 23 million apps, including the popular title, Pokémon Go.
It subsequently introduced an in-app VPN and optional virtual numbers as optional additional services for cross-border use.
Its Hong Kong office had failed to pay its employees wages on time and to its ex-employees within 7 days, with some employees having to seek help from the Labor Department.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Ibotta partnered with CPG brands in their “Here to Help” campaign and together committed over $10 million in cash back to American consumers.
Illegal Using cell phones for spying has also increased due to multiplication of smart phones and compromising one's information is very possible with spy apps.
mSpot became a wholly owned, independently operated subsidiary of Samsung Electronics, in May 2012: in July, 2013, mSpot employees became the Music Team for Samsung's Media Solutions Center.
Soon after, the company grew from a handful of people to a full staff of designers, developers, engineers, marketers, architects, and producers.
Operation Promate operates in over 150 countries worldwide through offline distribution, retail and e-commerce channels.
Reception Mashable noted in 2009, "The Usefulness of Poll Everywhere is apparent." See also Audience Response Systems == References ==
Vyduna subsequently took a leave of absence when Poll Everywhere was accepted into Y Combinator in mid-2008; In 2010 the company moved to San Francisco.
It was initially used in food brokerage, though eventually expanded to include functionality for the consumer packaged goods industry.
It first started as a premium mobile applications company, that grew mostly in the developing world.
Fiksu is a provider of mobile marketing technology that helps app and brand marketers reach their target audiences on mobile and CTV.
In June 2018, Polaris Networks and Nemergent Solutions completed interoperability tests between Polaris Networks’ NetEPC and Nemergent's Mission Critical Services (MCS) application server.
The software uses proprietary self-hosted large language models to scan game information and automatically produces recaps of games for university athletic departments.
In addition, in April 2016, Apteligent partnered with STL Partners, a London-based telecommunications industry analyst firm, to deliver a quarterly report focused on global network carrier performance and its potential impact on user experience.
AdmitSee has also received pushback from offline college consulting and test prep groups, who criticize AdmitSee's voyeuristic potential, comparing it to an online dating site.
The platform, which launched an Android version in December 2012, later shifted to a model that rewarded its users with gift cards for exploring and sharing free apps.
Their primary offering is AdmitSee, a database of successful college application essays and resumes.
The company connected merchants to a network of more than 300 telcos and digital wallets in Asia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa.
This is a list of mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs) in South Korea, which lease wireless telephone and data spectrum from the major mobile network operators (MNOs) SK Telecom (SKT), KT Corporation, and LG U+, and resell it to customers.
iPassMe makes the world of mobile commerce accessible to all businesses with a broad range of software and hardware including iBeacons technology, to provide in-store mobile communication.
It has raised around US$125 million in venture capital and is generating revenue from customers such as Vodafone UK, Vodafone Netherlands, Verizon Wireless, Warid Telecom, and more.
In 2019, Nazara Technologies acquired a 67% stake in Sportskeeda for ₹44 crore, valuing Sportskeeda at ₹65 crore.
The Mobile service company and others similar have been at the forefront of mobile messaging solutions over the last decade, and the rise of what is often referred to as the messaging economy.
Smartface Platform Smartface Platform is drag-and-drop cross-platform mobile application development and management tool and first released in 2006.
Sees Growth Opportunities in the United States for MMS Solutions." https://web.archive.org/web/20111017003802/http://www.wirelessdesignmag.com/ShowPR.aspx?PUBCODE=055&ACCT=0000100&ISSUE=1104&RELTYPE=IN&PRODCODE=00000&PRODLETT=BM&CommonCount=0.
After the second breach was reported, the company acknowledged the intrusion and announced that services would be "immediately and indefinitely" halted, offering pro-rated refunds to affected customers.
In March of that year, Ibotta partnered with Anheuser-Busch to offer cash back for adults who purchased its products.
Following the Microsoft Ventures Accelerator, AppsFlyer raised Series A funding from Pitango and Magma partners.
The architectural framework for the system and wireless engineering efforts were led by RF designer Mark Parr.
As of September 2025, Ibotta is trading at approximately $27.13 per share, marking a 69% decline from its initial public offering price of $88 per share on April 18, 2024.
The software was predominantly used across the Benelux by large nightlife venues to promote their nights and DJ events.
at 882 7 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 United States District Court Northern District of California (referring to three-part inquiry as the “Gallo framework”).
LetterWise used a prefix based predictive disambiguation method and can be demonstrated to have some advantages over the non-predictive Multi-tap technique that was in widespread use at the time that system was developed.
These plugins allow access to the device's accelerometer, camera, compass, file system, microphone, and more.
In 2007, RW3 Technologies was awarded by Consumer Goods Technology the Outside The Box Industry Award, presented to vendors that just don't fit within today's business walls.
During the same year, CM received coverage on The Next Web for their growing innovations in media messaging.
It offers partnership solutions that enable companies to provide travel connectivity services to their customers and manage connectivity for their employees.
In early 2005, Sprint was building the first 2.5 G network and requested mSpot to provide one of the first mobile radio channels for the first service.
On October 6, 2025, Bloomberg reported the SEC was looking into AppLovin regarding their data-collection practices, though remains unconfirmed, in 2026, by the SEC.
Services Tanla Platforms Limited initially started as a Bulk SMS provider in Hyderabad catering to SME.
The claimed "10-year strategic alliance with ‘limitless’ potential” deal with China UnionPay that Dan Wagner personally described in a quote to the BBC as “Why did China UnionPay decide to partner with a little British technology company?
In July 2025, it received $220 million in Series C financing round led by CVC (through its CVC Asia Fund VI), with participation from existing investors Peak XV and Antler Elevate, who were also Airalo's first investor through the Antler residency program in 2019.
In response, LocationSmart took the vulnerable service offline and claimed the company "takes privacy seriously".
Jon Prideaux, CEO of Boku explained the acquisition: "Boku has always grown by a mixture of organic growth and selective acquisition.
Its flagship product was privately launched in September 2015, followed by a public launch 3 months later.
A hacker had repeatedly accessed the company’s servers in 2017 and 2018, exposing customer data and files associated with its consumer surveillance applications.
In August of 2024, they announced they had acquired Event Dynamic, a leading provider of mobile event technology.
In 2019, the company acquired SafeDK, a software development kit management platform for ad quality, performance, and stability in mobile apps.
The service is encrypted on standards-based Wireless Transport Layer Security (WTLS) and holds a FIPS 140-2 certification.
While the price of the acquisition was not disclosed, the company stated the funds were cash and stock transactions.
It uses a service option for a cellular phone network which permits subscribers to use their phone as a walkie-talkie with unlimited range.
It specializes in building wireless communication infrastructure using distributed antenna system networks to provide Wi-Fi and cellular phone coverage in the places that are unreachable by traditional cellular phone services such as in the underground portions of the New York City Subway.
The CloudSight API employs deep learning methods Google Cloud Marketplace On June 2, 2020, CloudSight announced the availability of their neural network products on Google Cloud Marketplace as part of a collaboration with Google Cloud.
Mobile Ecosystem Data Reports In 2016, Apteligent launched a directory for Android and iOS devices by geography, as well as monthly reports focused on various aspects of iOS and Android version adoption, performance, and stability.
Brands and products Anker Anker began producing portable power banks and USB chargers before expanding into car chargers, wireless chargers, and data cables.
In 2023, Anker launched the Anker SOLIX brand for residential energy products, introducing the Solarbank E1600 balcony system and the SOLIX F3800 portable power station, which raised over US$5 million through crowdfunding.
The company later moved its headquarter to Shenzhen, China and set up its manufacturing facilities on a large scale.
Smartface App Studio is the only environment that allows whole native iOS development process to be done on Windows (as an alternative to Mac-only Xcode) with an on-device iPad/iPhone emulator for Windows PCs.
mSpy is a brand of mobile and computer parental control monitoring software for iOS, Android, Windows, and macOS.
ASPIDER's promotion of eSIM is notable because, when the initial specifications were announced, they were limited mainly to use-cases around operator selection and Remote SIM provisioning.
As the mobile landscape evolved, the main portfolio of products offered by Smartface Inc has eventually been replaced by the Appcircle mobile CI/CD platform, while Smartface Inc focusing on providing professional services for mobile and middleware technologies for enterprises.
Awards and honors He is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada (Science Academy) and the recipient of the American Association for the Advancement of Science Award for Public Understanding of Science and Technology in 2000.
Calgary Energy Centre Leach reviews articles posted on line by the "pro-energy corporation", the Calgary-based Canadian Energy Centre, which is funded by the government of Alberta.
Siri Nippita, a gynecologist at NYU Langone Medical Center and the chief of the family planning division as well as the director of Reproductive Choice at Bellevue Hospital.
Loan Programs Office Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm appointed Shah to direct the United States Department of Energy's Loan Programs Office (LPO) in March 2021.
Copenhagen Consensus Bjørn Lomborg chose Tol to participate in his "Copenhagen Consensus" project in 2008.
Vaclav Smil (Czech: [ˈvaːtslaf ˈsmɪl]; born December 9, 1943) is a Czech-Canadian scientist and policy analyst.
Harry Gerard Broadman (born December 23, 1954, in New York City) is an international investment executive and global business strategist; an authority on trade, antitrust, corporate governance, sustainability, and innovation; and a non-executive corporate director.
Education Ph.D.: University of Grenoble, Department of Economics / Institute of Energy Economics and Policy, 1987.
From 2006 to 2008, he was chief energy economist at Lehman Brothers, where he argued the oil price rises of 2007 and 2008 were an unsustainable bubble.
In September 2007 he was appointed ICREA Research Professor at Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona (UAB), and honorary professor of Environmental and Resource Economics at VU.
He obtained his PhD from UC Berkeley in management science in 1976 and has been at Stanford since 1977.
Among other works, he is an editor of the book "Avoiding Dangerous Climate Change" and co-author (with Edwin Mansfield) of "Microeconomics| Microeconomics: Theory and Applications".
He has been a senior fellow of SIEPR since 1998 and a senior fellow by courtesy at the Hoover Institution from 2001 until his retirement.
David William Pearce OBE (11 October 1941 – 8 September 2005) was Emeritus Professor at the Department of Economics at University College London and a pioneer of environmental economics.
The Netherland auction that took place 3 months later raised 1/4 of the revenue per head of population, and the difference has been attributed to the auction design.
After earning a llicenciatura in economics from the Autonomous University of Barcelona in 2006, she went to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for graduate study, and completed a Ph.D.
Under his leadership, association agreements increased with major producers of energy, especially with countries outside the OECD in the Global South, such as India and China.
Tiedemann, 2008, "The neighbor effect: simulating dynamics in consumer preferences for new vehicle technologies," Ecological Economics.
In practice, it serves as the NSC's chief of staff responsible for coordination, budget and management of the National Security Council.
He was professor at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology and Dubna State University (Moscow region, Dubna city, Russia).
His books examine economic, environmental and geopolitical pressures on the transformation of the global energy sector.
He acknowledges that this level of taxation is too low to significantly discourage fossil fuel use but argues it would help to stimulate the development of fuel-saving technology and improve the competitiveness of renewable energy sources.
While there he played "a leading role in helping to shape the group's advocacy on domestic and international climate policy." As an expert on environmental policy, Keohane testified before various committees of the United States House of Representatives.
He was a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Energy and a member of the International Association for Energy Economics.
From 1979 to 1981, Morse served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Energy Policy.
Three months later, in July 2004, Currie authored a Goldman Sachs report that forecasted rising long-term oil prices, arguing that the 'global oil industry is at capacity'.
Trump, was filed on January 30 and on February 3 successfully earned a temporary restraining order to forbid federal enforcement of some of the ban's provisions.
He created an important tradition of understanding energy by studying it from the bottom up, which means by end user." Schipper broke new ground by analyzing energy data sector by sector and end-use by end-use in various countries and comparing them.
He also holds a Master of Science in Management of Technology from the MIT Sloan School of Management.
Research work Stephen Thomas is professor at the University of Greenwich Business School, and has been a researcher in the area of energy policy for over twenty-five years.
At Western Washington University, he served as dean of the College of Business and Economics from 2013 to 2016 before gaining his professorship.
From 2001 to 2006, he was Director of Research and Acting Secretary General at the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
He served as an expert witness at the Department of Energy's hearings on the National Energy Strategy and testified at Congressional hearings on priorities in global climate change research.
Earlier in his career, his theoretical research on housing market dynamics and on the economics of depletable natural resources helped establish analytical frameworks that influenced subsequent scholarship.
at Queens University, Leach was appointed as an assistant professor at HEC Montreal, a post he held for three years.
When a society confronts a "problem," such as a shortage of energy, or difficulty in gaining access to it, it tends to create new layers of bureaucracy, infrastructure, or social class to address the challenge.
With uncertainty, firms have options to make capital investments, and much of a firm's value can be attributed to the value of these options, even though many of them may never be exercised.
After the broadcast, LaRouche members picketed NBC's office carrying signs saying "Lynch Pat Lynch," and the NBC switchboard said it received a death threat against her.
With other administrators and mayors of Regione del Veneto Lorenzoni is working to a civic network named Vale.
Saddler was the author of a book on Australian energy policy, Energy in Australia, and over 50 scientific papers, monographs and articles on energy technology and environmental policy, and is recognised as one of Australia's leading experts in this field.
Having lived his early life in the Midlands where he attended the independent King Edward's School, Birmingham, Klemperer went on to gain an engineering degree from Cambridge University, and an MBA and an economics PhD from Stanford University.
The organization, which historically had been heavily in favor of the fossil fuel industry, has expanded its scope to include sustainable energy and more members.
While on leave from Georgetown in 2010–11, he served as a Senior Economist at the White House Council of Economic Advisers.
Another branch, represented by Robert Pindyck, holds that integrated assessment models cannot capture the complexity of the climate-economy nexus.
From 1998 through 2002, he served as the legislative and community affairs director for the San Diego City Fire Fighters.
Selected publications Her publications include eight books, and numerous articles in key economic, energy, environmental, and planning journals, establishing her as a leading political economist.
He was also the president of the Institute for Energy Policy, a Moscow-based independent think tank until 2013.
From 1978 to 1988 he was deputy secretary general of OPEC, serving as acting secretary general from 1983 to 1988.
Before moving to the University of Greenwich in 2001, Thomas worked for twenty-two years at the Science Policy Research Unit (SPRU) at the University of Sussex.
He has played a significant role in various EU policy projects and has taught extensively on topics related to sustainable development and energy policy across various international platforms.
In 2018, Nakicenovic was inducted into the International Academy for Systems and Cybernetic Sciences.
He also served as associate editor of the following publications: Journal of Comparative Economics, Economics Letters, Journal of Japanese and International Economies, Journal of Environmental Economics and Management.
He has been an Associate Professor of Applied Economics at the University of Padova since 2006, specializing in energy economics and electricity market economics.
He rarely discussed his ongoing work with colleagues and students, and he collaborated in very few joint projects during his career.
Education After completing his Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) degree in Environmental Sciences and his M.A.
Candidate for office (2008–2016) In December 2008, Milov co-founded the opposition movement Solidarnost.
She is the first woman to have held the position of President and CEO of Hydro-Québec between 2020 and 2023.
He was Member of the Steering Committee of the Austrian Assessment Report On Climate Change 2014, which was published in September 2014.
"Skip" Laitner, Brian Partridge, and Vincent Vittore, Brussels, Belgium: Global e-Sustainability Initiative.
Political career From 2017 to 2020, Lorenzoni served as the deputy mayor of Padova, overseeing urban planning, mobility, private building initiatives, information technology systems, the digital agenda, and university relations.
Jeremy Rifkin joined Maros Sefcovic, vice president of the European Commission, and Markku Markkula, president of the European Committee of the Regions, in a presentation of the smart city and smart region agenda across the European Union.
He won 25,104 votes, a majority of 6,803, and unseated the then-incumbent Labour MP Fiona O'Donnell.
[With Thane Gustafson.] The Commanding Heights: The Battle Between Government and the Marketplace That Is Remaking the Modern World; New York: Simon & Schuster, 1998.
doi:10.1086/704493 References External links In memorium article by Gernot Wagner and Robert Stavins Home page
Chinese translation published in 1990 by Liaoning Publishing House, Shenyang, Liaoning Province, China.
They later published it in 2011 as an electioneering plank for the People's Freedom Party together with former Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov and Vladimir Ryzhkov, only to be met by accusations from Putin of "stealing from the state".
Work Parker has made significant contributions to the field of network economics and strategy as co-developer of the theory of two-sided markets and the theory of the inverted firm with Marshall Van Alstyne.
He taught introductory environmental science courses among other subjects dealing with energy, atmospheric change, China, population and economic development.
Publications His books include Social Change and Sustainable Transport (with William Black, 2002, Indiana University Press) Public Facilities Planning (with Lili Kiminami and Kenneth Button, 2007, Edward Elgar) Spatial Dynamics, Networks and Modelling (with Aura Reggiani, 2006, Edward Elgar).
Kerevan eventually stood successfully as the SNP candidate for East Lothian at the 2015 general election.
In 2023, he was appointed to the Board of Sponsors of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, founded by Albert Einstein.
References External links Official website for Peter Tertzakian's Energyphile Campbell, Colin (June 2009).
Biography Adnan Shihab-Eldin is a Senior Visiting Research Fellow at the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies and a founding member of the Board of Directors of the Kearney Energy Transition Institute (Netherlands).
Biography He is Former Deputy Director General/ Deputy CEO of the International Institute for Applied System Analysis (IIASA) in Laxenburg, Austria and former Full Professor of Energy Economics at the Vienna University of Technology, Austria.
Shah has also called to end all energy subsidies, including those for renewable energy, to "create a level playing field." He has donated repeatedly to the Climate Hawks Vote Political Action Super PAC since 2016 per FEC records.
Ein Reiseführer für überzeugte Daheimbleiber, Wien, Ueberreuter-Verlag 2003, ISBN 3-8000-3957-5 2011: But Will The Planet Notice?.
He is also an adjunct Professor of finance in INCEIF (International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance) Malaysia Papers and awards He has published more than 130 papers in renowned journals all over the world.
Leach says that a "credible emissions reduction plan" that includes all the elements of Alberta's "new fiscal regime, from taxes to royalties to carbon levies" for the oil sands is necessary in order to "secure new markets" and major investments for "big players' in Alberta's oil industry.
Peter Nijkamp (born 26 February 1946) is a Dutch economist, Professor of Regional Economics and Economic Geography at the Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, the Netherlands, a fellow of the Tinbergen Institute and President of the Governing Board of the Netherlands Research Council (NWO).
Dunn also serves on the faculty of the Institute for Energy Studies, on the Graduate Faculty Governance Council, and on the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Advocacy Council.
From 2022 to 2024 he was Deputy Assistant Treasury Secretary for Climate and Energy Economics in the Biden administration, and from 2010 to 2011 a senior economist at the Council of Economic Advisers in the Obama administration.
Martin's Press, ISBN 978-1-250-25320-0 2022, The Age of Resilience: Reimagining Existence on a Rewilding Earth, St.
A Thousand Barrels a Second: The Coming Oil Break Point and the Challenges Facing an Energy Dependent World (2006).
Second, Martin prepared a radio address describing the G-7 Economic Meeting chaired by Margaret Thatcher in 1984.
Gernot Wagner (1980 in Austria) is an Austro-American climate economist at Columbia Business School.
She holds a master's degree in public administration and economics from Syracuse University and a PhD in economics from Harvard University, where she was in charge of the regional work at the Harvard Economic Research Project.
NBC won a countersuit, the jury awarding the network $3 million in damages, later reduced to $258,459, for misuse of libel law, in what was called one of the more celebrated countersuits by a libel defendant.
"Skip" Laitner, Dylan Sullivan, and Nolan Moser, An Issue Brief, Washington, DC: Natural Resources Defense Council.
He worked as a renewable energy economist with the Energy Information Administration of the United States Department of Energy in Washington, DC, then returned to San Diego in 1996 to work as a City Council aide to councilmember Valerie Stallings.
Parker's research also includes studies of distributed innovation, business platform strategy, and platforms to integrate distributed energy resources.
In 2002 he was awarded the annual Royal Dutch/Shell Prize (Koninklijke/Shell Prijs) with a purse of 100,000 euros by the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences, for his research related to sustainable development and energy.
Richels is a co-author of Buying Greenhouse Insurance - the Economic Costs of CO2 Emission Limits (with Alan S.
Also in 2022, she became vice-president for climate change at the Center for Economic and Policy Research.
He stood for Lothian East at the 2024 general election, where he finished in seventh place out of seven candidates, winning 577 votes and a 1.2% share.
So the central questions about global-warming policy–how much, how fast, and how costly–remain open.
Pobisk Georgievich Kuznetsov (Russian: Побиск Георгиевич Кузнецов; May 18, 1924, in Krasnoyarsk – December 4, 2000) was a Soviet Russian philosopher and scientist (chemist).
In December 2001, Milov was appointed adviser to the Minister of Energy of the Russian Federation and in May 2002, he was appointed Deputy Minister of Energy of Russia in Kasyanov's government.
Saeed Moshiri (born 1957) is an Iranian economist and Professor of Economics at the University of Saskatchewan.
A true energy transition will be a story of addition but also one of subtraction—in particular, reducing carbon emissions.” Notable Research, Awards, and Memberships Newell has published widely on topics such as energy innovation, climate policy, and energy efficiency.
He also submitted a written statement to a Ways and Means Committee hearing on "Policy Options to Prevent Climate Change".
People pronouncing solemn oaths and bloodlines as a sign of reconciliation, forgiving each other and held on to this chain.
You might also look for her companion, a large Chinese rabbit, who is easy to spot since he is only standing on his hind feet in the shade of a cinnamon tree.
During the ceremony the priests asked for unity, peace and the end of discrimination and racism, with the hope that the start of a new cycle will be a "new dawn".
As compared to an account offered by Gabriel Acquin—one of the two Maliseet sources that Leland had at the time he wrote his rendition of the Gluskap-Malsumis story—Leland's makes a concerted effort to paint Malsumis as explicitly malicious.
Lietuvēns's cross In the fight against lietuvēns the most important role is played by so-called lietuvēns’ cross (Latvian: lietuvēna krusts) that can be two types - simple and double.
The Trialeti-Vanadzor culture is widely regarded as one of the strongest archaeological candidates for the Proto-Armenian horizon.
While he and Gluskab both had the power to do good, Malsumis used his power for evil and trickery, like putting thorns on plants.
It is thought to be a soul of a killed (strangled, drowned, hanged) person and attacks both people and domestic animals.
Consequently, Xaskar and Duzgın might be personifications of Armenian Anahita and Mithra in this mountainous region, Tunceli.
From the analysis of Thorkild Jacobsen, Dale Launderville has suggested the myth provides evidence that Sumerian society prohibited premarital sex in a discussion entitled "Channeling the Sex Drive Toward the Creation of Community".
It was also the name of first rulers of the Second Turkic Khaganate, Ilterish Qaghan, and the Uyghur Khaganate, Kutlug I Bilge Khagan.
She asks his name and lineage and informs him that five companies of dead men crossed the bridge the previous day, yet it trembles no more beneath their passage than under his alone, and he does not resemble the dead.
Since "Elbis" shares some devilish characteristics, he became identified with Iblis under Islamic influences.
But in the Bronze Age, when men became violent and greedy, she fled to the stars, where she appears as the constellation Virgo, holding the scales of Justice, or Libra.
Safa (Ossetian: Сафа, from the Greek: Σάββας - "Sabbas the Sanctified") in Ossetian mythology God of the hearth chain.
References Other sources Bellows, Henry Adams (1923) The Poetic Edda (American-Scandinavian Foundation) Orchard, Andy (1997) Dictionary of Norse Myth and Legend (Cassell) ISBN 0-304-34520-2 Simek, Rudolf (2007) translated by Angela Hall Dictionary of Northern Mythology (D.S.
According to Latvian folk epics and omens, lietuvēns is the soul of a murdered (strangled, drowned or hanged) person cursed to live in this world as long as it has been meant to live.
The Witch (2015): Thomasin signs her name in the Devil's book so that she can join a murderous coven of witches.
She is described as a tall, skinny old woman, with long dirty nails in dried toes, white tangled hair, a long nose, staring red eyes, and greenish teeth on her evil laugh.
He conceived this idea over several years in the early to mid-1970s whilst using psilocybin mushrooms and DMT.
Description In Belarusian language Chut has masculine grammatical gender, so in most cases Chut is described as a male.
See also Aos Sí Beast of Bodmin Cù-sìth Cath Palug Grimalkin Kellas cat List of fictional cats Phantom cat "The Black Cat" (short story) == References ==
In stanza 51, Vafþrúðnir states that, after Surtr's flames have been sated, Odin's sons Víðarr and Váli will live in the temples of the gods, and that Thor's sons Móði and Magni will possess the hammer Mjolnir.
Angitia was a goddess among the Marsi, the Paeligni and other Oscan-Umbrian peoples of central Italy.
Women who die an unnatural death, such as in childbirth or by suicide, and prostitutes may become chedipes.
Barrie's further works about Peter Pan depict early childhood as a time of pre-civilised naturalness and happiness, which is destroyed by the subsequent process of education.
At the end of the ballad, though the man and his family die, their town is never again touched by plague.
It consists of eight and a half folios, written in two columns in a fine late thirteenth-century hand.
The cause of Copper's victory is that Copper has been demonstrated to be useful for all sorts of purposes, whereas Silver is merely for show or decoration.
Aeschylus describing the nightingale as Tereus' wife and 'hawk-chased' impplies an early version where Tereus became a hawk instead of hoopoe, also supported by Hyginus, which fits the story as hawks are large birds of prey that attack nightingales.
As the plague wreaked havoc on the town, he managed to survive the plague, saved by virtue of his kindness A popular ballad told the tale of a man who killed the plague maiden using a sword inscribed with the names of Jesus and the Virgin Mary and stole her handkerchief.
Ali Shia Muslims believe that the name of Ali Ibne-Abi Talib (Muhammad's son in law) is written on the Moon.
The trunk of the tree could also be represented by an upright caiman, whose skin evokes the tree's spiny trunk.
Finally, the thirteenth episode was dropped and they made the twelfth episode 10 minutes longer (52 minutes).
On 10 December 861 AD, Abbasid caliph al-Mutawakkil, unable or unwilling to leave Baghdad, ordered the tree be felled and transported to his capital, so that carpenters might reassemble it for him.
Claudius Aelianus, On the Characteristics of Animals, translated by Alwyn Faber Scholfield (1884–1969), from Aelian, Characteristics of Animals, published in three volumes by Harvard/Heinemann, Loeb Classical Library, 1958.
There is a rogue Master, Leeland, wanting to collect all the Automata under one Master because he believes they are evil and create strife when held individually.
And Glooskap said, "I will be born as others are." But the evil Malsumsis thought himself too great to be brought forth in such a manner, and declared that he would burst through his mother's side.
Encyclopædia Britannica and The Encyclopedia of Witches, Witchcraft and Wicca ignore completely Hansen's theory and list Sprenger and Kramer as co-authors.
Some modern scholars see his relationship with Cú Chulainn, and his death, as having homoerotic undertones.
However, the version known as "Zoya's Standing" from 1956 has become the most widely recognized and enduring adaptation of this narrative.
Drioma walks the evening beneath the windows, and when darkness falls, enters the house through cracks and fissures.
[...] In the midst of these evils, we Inquisitors, Jacobus Sprenger together with the very dear associate [Institoris] delegated by the Apostolic See for the extermination of so destructive a heresy [...] we will bring everything to the desired conclusion.
Keibu Keioiba In the Meitei mythology and folklore, Keibu Keioiba (Meitei: ꯀꯩꯕꯨ ꯀꯩꯑꯣꯏꯕ), also known as Kabui Keioiba (Meitei: ꯀꯕꯨꯏ ꯀꯩꯑꯣꯏꯕ), is a mythical creature with the head of a tiger and the body of a human.
In the Bibliotheca of Apollodorus there is a retelling of the Odyssey: after Odysseus returned home and killed the suitors he departed to Thesprotia and had a child named Polypoetes with Callidice, the queen of the region, before returning to Ithaca.
However the name actually derives from the root "Yel" (or El/Al/Yal), which describes evil features.
Other speculations regarding doomsday in 2012 included predictions by the Web Bot project, a computer program that purports to predict the future by analyzing Internet chatter.
A beautiful virgin named Naiá dreamed of becoming a star, despite warnings that girls taken by Jaci lost their blood and flesh in becoming stars.
At this point, Cú Chulainn calls to his charioteer, Laeg, for the Gáe Bolga, which he floats down the river to him.
"Young Goodman Brown", short story by Nathaniel Hawthorne Poems Pani Twardowska, poem by Adam Mickiewicz, in Polish folklore and literature, is a sorcerer who made a deal with the devil.
The death of Bel caused panic among his troops, who fled the battlefield, securing a symbolic victory for Hayk and laying the mythical foundations of the Armenian nation.
The Narrator of the book claims to be a character in the story, though does not reveal their identity until the end.
But she was extremely lascivious, and had abnormal sexual desires (which are not described in detail).
Origins Some scholars think that there is a association between Armenian Mithra (Mehr or Mihr) and Bava Duzgi/Dizgun Bava.
Faust, opera by Charles Gounod, (1859) La damnation de Faust, opera by Hector Berlioz, inspired by Goethe's poem Faust.
In Greek mythology Poliporthes (also known as Ptoliporthes or Ptoliporthus) (Ancient Greek: Πολιπόρθης and Πτολιπόρθης) was the son born to Odysseus and Penelope after the former's return from the Trojan War.
Endymion had by a Naiad nymph or, as some say, by Iphianassa, a son Aetolus, who slew Apis, son of Phoroneus, and fled to the Curetian country.
The most widely-circulated version of Malsumis and his brother Gluskab can be credited to Charles Leland.
Alternatively, the vague shape of the overall dark and light regions of the Moon may resemble a Yin Yang symbol.
In particular, some modern-day Muslim groups have advocated for interpreting the term al-sama, traditionally believed to be a reference to both the sky and the seven heavens, as instead referring to the universe as a whole.
The Temple of the Cross Complex at Palenque contains one of the most studied examples of the world tree in architectural motifs of all Mayan ruins.
She comes to see children, asleep with their eyes closed, arranges the bedspread, and strokes their hair.
Tydeus broke Melanippus' skull open and consumed his brain, which disgusted Athena so that she gave up her intent of making Tydeus immortal.
It draws upon a traditional narrative framework centered on the punishment of sacrilege and has been preserved in oral tradition and folklore, even during periods when religious content was suppressed in print.
Online Version Kramer, Samuel Noah., Sumerian Mythology: A Study of Spiritual and Literary Achievement in the Third Millennium B.C., Forgotten Books, First published 1944.
Some Hanbali jurists meanwhile also excuse that those under the desire pressure from not being married, and Ahmad ibn Hanbal also said it is permissible for prisoners, travellers and for men and women who have difficulty in finding a lawful spouse.
Vishnu is depicted with the Kiritamukuta in some of his earliest icons, identified from the region of Mathura.
Eleusinian Mysteries Baubo is mentioned in two Orphic fragments – fragments 52 and 49 – relating to the Eleusinian mysteries and specifically the cheering of Demeter during her stay at Eleusis as she mourns the loss of her daughter.
One winter the weather was very bad, bringing on a drought and the people were struggling to feed themselves let alone their animals.
A shield maiden Saxo Grammaticus reported a shield-maiden bearing this name as captain of the contingent from Sle fighting for the Danes at the Battle of Brávellir in the year 750.
Hydrogen and oxygen exist in the universe in their natural combination H2O, water, in its cosmic form: ice".
However, the role of lover of Selene, the Moon goddess, is attributed primarily to the Endymion who was either a shepherd or an astronomer, as either profession provides justification for the time he spent gazing at the Moon.
The chedipe also has sexual intercourse with the sleeping victim in many cases, resulting in suspicions of infidelity in the mind of the victim's wife.
Moreover, the authors insist that the death penalty for convicted witches is the only sure remedy against witchcraft.
Its discovery revealed a source for many details in medieval texts whose sources had been obscure, not appearing in the familiar Latin epitomes of the Iliad, through which Homer was transmitted to medieval culture, the Greek text being lost to Western Europe.
"Семь богов и семь миров в осетинской мифологии — Seven gods and seven worlds in Ossetian mythology".
The fifth century CE Greek grammarian Hesychius recorded the name Baubo in his lexicon, stating that she was the nurse of Demeter.
Further, in academic writing, though "myth" usually means a fundamental worldview story, even there it is occasionally ambiguous or clearly denotes "falsehood", as in the "Christ myth theory".
Main text The Malleus Maleficarum asserts that three elements are necessary for witchcraft: the evil intentions of the witch, the help of the Devil, and the permission of God.
In the morning, the victim of the chedipe will awaken from their sleep with no memory of the chedipe's visit.
'war over the love of Tara' is described to be an ancient conflict in Hindu mythology, instigated by the elopement of Tara, the consort of Brihaspati, by Soma, the god of the moon.
Every night, Selene visited him where he slept, and by him had fifty daughters who are equated by some scholars (such as James George Frazer or H.
While the cosmic tree symbolism has deep roots in Mesoamerican cultures, the precise botanical identification and underlying meaning of the motif remain poorly understood.
And the encyclopedia example described the amabiko (アマビコ) as a kechō (怪鳥; ‘monstrous bird’) in its sub-heading.
Chut saves the childish features of character forever: he is foolish, playful, joking and emotionally labile.
Sir Roger Penrose is among the present-day physicists that believe in a cyclical model for the Universe, wherein there are alternating cycles consisting of Big Bangs and Big Crunches, and he describes this model to be "a bit more like Hindu philosophy" as compared to the Abrahamic faiths.
Usage by the Turks The Turkic khagans claimed that they were "heaven-like, heaven-conceived" and possessed kut, a sign of the Mandate of Heaven to rule.
See also Anasyrma Dilukai Headless men Lajja Gauri Nin-imma Sheela na gig Vagina and vulva in art Venus figurines References Bibliography Clement of Alexandria (1919).
The sequence is set in the Harmons' basement and includes images of postmortem young children, unborn (or aborted) babies in jars, skulls, a christening dress, a nurse's uniform, and a figure holding a pair of bloody hedge clippers.
For this Hecate, the goddess of witchcraft, turned her into a small, "evil" in the words of Aelian, mustelid bearing her name, galê (Greek γαλῆ or γαλέη, a land-marten or polecat).
She affects the appearance of an old, kindly woman, with soft hands, or a little man with a soft, lulling voice.
The opposing sides comprising the Fomorians, led by Cichol Gricenchos, and the followers of Partholón.
His books investigate the work of Austrian engineer Hanns Hörbiger and German selenographer Philipp Fauth and the now-defunct Cosmic Ice (Glacial Cosmogony) Theory.
It bears jewelled discs either on the front or on all of its sides, as well as jewelled bands present around its top and bottom.
Chica Umino, Mari Okazaki and Toshinao Aoki) published their cartoon versions of amabie on social networks.
The Quran and Cosmology Wickman, Leslie, "God of the Big Bang: How Modern Science Affirms the Creator," Worthy Publishing (2015), ISBN 978-1617954252.
Plato was little read in Byron's time, in contrast to the later Victorian era when translations of the Symposium and Phaedrus would have been the most likely way for a young student to learn about Greek sexuality.
He killed two of the seven attacking champions, Mecisteus and Tydeus, but was killed by either Amphiaraus, or by Tydeus himself as he died.
I'll give You fried eggs and abaranki!" (Belarusian: Хут, Хут, ідзі сюды, дам яечаньку, абараначку!).
The myth surrounding Endymion has been expanded and reworked during the modern period by figures like Henry Wadsworth Longfellow and John Keats (in his 1818 narrative poem Endymion).
A Chinese merchant who refused to be converted to the Christian faith while passing in front of the monastery of Guadalupe was almost caught by the devil disguised as a caiman to devour and bring to hell.
Lumachelles may or may not contain complete bivalves including the shell, or alternatively only internal molds.
Japanese natural and synthetic waterstones The Japanese traditionally use natural sharpening stones (referred to as tennen toishi) wetted with water, as using oil on such a stone reduces its effectiveness.
Sarral (Old Catalan for 'the Royal [Domain]'; Catalan pronunciation: [səˈral]) is a municipality and small town in the comarca of Conca de Barberà in the province of Tarragona in Catalonia, Spain.
The 25-acre (10 ha) site of the former Chellaston Brickworks is now a designated Local Nature Reserve.
Grotefend had also proposed a reading of the cuneiform inscriptions on the Caylus vase since 1805, translating it quite accurately as "Xerxes rex fortis" ("Xerxes, the Strong King", although it is actually "Xerxes, the Great King").
Geologists had recognized by 1941 that some rocks show the macroscopic characteristics of quartzite, even though they have not undergone metamorphism at high pressure and temperature.
Jasper conglomerate is an informal term for a very distinctive Paleoproterozoic quartz and jasper pebble conglomerate that occurs within the middle part of the Lorrain Formation of the Cobalt Group of the Huronian Supergroup.
Frilli and his gallery were well known in Europe, the United States and Australia, as he took part in several world's fair exhibitions.
It heads north for 32 kilometres to meet the north-western terminus of the R340 and become the Prince Alfred's Pass.
Liminal, or boundary, stele were used to mark size and location of fields and the country's borders.
Itacolumite is a naturally occurring sandstone that is flexible when cut into relatively thin slabs.
Occupants of the Tomb The exact location of the tomb is currently unknown as, once all materials from the chamber had been removed, it was filled in and abandoned.
Created by Marv Wolfman and Chuck Patton, she first appeared in Tales of the Teen Titans #56 (August 1985).
Greywacke sandstones are a heterogeneous mixture of lithic fragments and angular grains of quartz and feldspar or grains surrounded by a fine-grained clay matrix.
Flux growth (solution process) The flux growth process was the first process able to synthesize emerald.
The Romans made extensive use of rubble masonry, calling it opus caementicium, after the name (caementicium) given to the filling between two revetments.
Oliphant wanted to create an event that was accessible to all people, regardless of age and ability, and would be free to all.
It is found almost exclusively in the south-eastern end of the Quantock Hills near Cockercombe, Somerset, England, from where it has been quarried for centuries.
During or after sedimentation the shells or carapaces may be dissolved or eroded away, producing internal molds.
Developed first by the Gell family, and then by The Hopton-Wood Stone Firms Ltd, it was called "England’s premier decorative stone", and described as "remarkably and exceptionally pure limestone, almost identical to marble" with impurities at an "extraordinarily low figure of 0.02%".
Posta Sandstone (German: Postaer Sandstein), also called Wehlen Sandstone (Wehlener Sandstein), only occurs on the eastern banks of the River Elbe at Alte Poste, near Herrenleithe, Wehlen, Zeichen and Posta.
There were many objects from the Isis Tomb that were clearly imported from Egypt or elsewhere in the Middle East, which indicates trade and cultural exchange between Etruscans and Civilizations of the eastern Mediterranean.
It is a "convenience" label rather than a geological term, since at least 46 different rock types are represented.
Near the surface, Cottonwood Limestone is a useful aquifer, while deeper subsurface Cottonwood Limestone is associated with oil and gas producing formations.
Saint-Martin in Extrait d'un mémoire relatif aux antiques inscriptions de Persépolis lu à l'Académie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres.
Due to its softness it was favoured during the Late Second Temple Period for carving box-shaped ossuaries for secondary burials as well as for producing stone vessels, using a procedure similar to the potter's wheel.
However, after Guan refuses Kuvira's request to surrender and refuses to fight her, Kuvira assaults Guan before she is electrocuted into unconsciousness by Asami, who resents Kuvira for killing her father.
Contemporary tesserae Vitreous glass These are manufactured glass tiles made to a uniform shape and size.
For breaking that oath, he ended up in the Empire's gladiator training school, the Maw, where he fought alongside such other warriors as Miek, No-Name the Brood, Korg, and the Hulk.
The goal of the competition is to lift each stone sequentially from smallest to largest and place them on top of 4 ft 4 in (52 in) whisky barrels as quickly as possible.
The highest elevation is about 631 metres (2,070 ft) above sea level at the southwestern end of the hill, overlooking the Linth and Obersee area, which are at around 406 metres (1,332 ft) above sea level.
Theia comes into conflict with the Teen Titans and is killed in the ensuing battle, with Kole being freed.
Cotham Marble or Landscape Marble is a variety of Rhaetian (uppermost Triassic) stromatolitic limestone from the Penarth Group, found in south Wales and southwestern England in the area around Bristol, possibly extending to the south coast in east Devon.
Their irregular finish makes them a wonderful reflector of light and this material is best used working straight into cement.
Modern Day Since the closure of Middleton Mine and Hopton Quarry, the Stone's reputation as a premier decorative mark has maintained.
In Mysticons, the process is called "turn to bone" which is a strong spell that was cast on Queen Goodfey and King Darius in the premiere of the show ("Sisters In Arms"), which was eventually undone months later by the caster himself at the end of the penultimate episode "Fear the Spectral Hand").
Quarrying and use In 2008, Posta Sandstone was being won in two quarries in the Wesenitz valley and it was being used for solid window and door frames, façade slabs, sculptor's blocks and high-profile masonry work.
The bluestones at Stonehenge were first used there during the third phase of construction at Stonehenge around 2300 BC.
It is also known as Überquader ("Over Ashlar") and has the smallest deposit of all the Elbe sandstones.
It may form an outer surface of a wall, or fill the core of a wall which is faced with unit masonry such as brick or ashlar.
He was chosen to be the personal guard of the Red King and uphold an alliance between the Shadows and the Empire.
Following the revelation that Miek had allowed the destruction of Sakaar, the remaining Warbound surrender to S.H.I.E.L.D.
There he embarked on a plan to unite all of the former Soviet Union by transforming its people into a race of zombie-like radioactive beings living under a communal mind.
Reinhardtsdorf Sandstone (German: Reinhardtsdorfer Sandstein, also Oberquader or Hauptsandstein) is quarried in the vicinity of Reinhardtsdorf near Pirna in the district of Sächsische Schweiz-Osterzgebirge in the German Free State of Saxony.
To the south the Cotswolds, with the characteristic uplift of the Cotswold Edge, reach beyond Bath, and towns such as Chipping Sodbury and Marshfield share elements of Cotswold character.
Legend The origin of the Yuhua Stone is told through the legend of a Chinese monk named Yunguang (雲光) who lived during the Liang dynasty.
Another of the many manor houses in the area, Owlpen Manor in the village of Owlpen in the Stroud district, is also Tudor and Grade I listed.
The 9 stones weigh 18 kg (40 lb), 32 kg (71 lb), 41 kg (90 lb), 50 kg (110 lb), 75 kg (165 lb), 107 kg (236 lb), 118 kg (260 lb), 135 kg (298 lb) and 152 kg (335 lb) respectively.
The earliest explanations were all inorganic, including evaporitic deposition and the effect of gas bubbles rising through the sediment.
Commemorative stelae were placed in temples by the pharaoh, or his senior officials, detailing important events of his reign.
Ashlar masonry is in contrast to rubble masonry, which employs irregularly shaped stones, such as flat ledge or rounded river or lake stones, sometimes minimally worked or selected for similar size, or both.
Jerusalem stone (Hebrew: אבן ירושלמית, romanized: ʾeḇen yərūšalmīṯ; Arabic: حجر القدس, romanized: ḥajar al-Quds) is a name applied to various types of pale limestone, dolomite and dolomitic limestone, common in and around Jerusalem that have been used in building since ancient times.
There were also a large number of bronze vessels interred in the tomb, including cups, bowls, tripod-bowls, a cauldron, a lamp-stand, an amphora, a brazier and a cinerary urn.
Jordans Roach has a maximum bed height of 2 metres and is a roach in which the shelliest parts seem to be towards the middle of the block.
Current scenario This was the chief tool of the past to grind millet into flour before the spread of commercial grinding mill shops.
Overview Due to the thermal mass of baking stones and the material's property as a poor heat conductor, food is less likely to burn when one uses a baking stone instead of metal or glass bakeware.
See also Fossil beach Fossiliferous limestone Limestone Lumachelle à Ostrea acuminata Formation Shelly limestone References External links Media related to Lumachelles at Wikimedia Commons
Chellaston Cricket Club plays in the Derbyshire County Cricket Leagues, with adult and junior teams were formed in 2021 and have adopted Chellaston Park as their home ground.
The stones are named for Ardblair Castle located in Blairgowrie, Perthshire in Scotland, close to where they originated.
On cut and polished faces the stone has the appearance of a landscape, complete with ploughed fields, trees, and hedges.
Elephant Rock was a rock formation at Hartlepool, England, shaped like an elephant which only existed for a few decades, being washed away by a storm in 1891.
When the Skrulls invade Attilan, Crystal uses her abilities to defeat a Skrull who possesses the powers of Colossus, Cyclops, and Wolverine, and a Skrull who is an amalgam of Captain America and Spider-Man.
It is mined exclusively in Belgium, where use of the name Petit Granit is subject to an Appellation d’Origine Locale (Local Appellation of Origin) designation.
Among the most well-known and best preserved objects are the twelve statues known collectively as the Tell Asmar Hoard.
Burre: Die nutzbaren Gesteine Deutschlands und ihre Lagerstätten mit Ausnahme der Kohlen, Erze und Salze, Enke-Verlag, Stuttgart 1929.
See also List of mountains of the canton of Schwyz References External links Media related to Buechberg at Wikimedia Commons Alois Stadler: "Bollingen" in German, French and Italian in the online Historical Dictionary of Switzerland, 7 June 2004.
See also Earth oven – underground ovens Masonry oven – colloquially known as a brick oven or stone oven == References ==
It has been used in important European religious and secular buildings since the Renaissance, including the Palazzo Pitti and Palace of Versailles.
The setting sun reflected on the cream-colored limestone facade of both ancient and modern structures gives them a golden hue, giving rise to the term "Jerusalem of Gold".
143-204 (Digitalisat Archived 2012-03-23 at the Wayback Machine) External links Technical data of Reinhardtsdorf Sandstone Archived 2012-03-15 at the Wayback Machine Citizen's initiative against a quarry in the Alte Poste valley
In contrast, modern construction frequently uses cast concrete with an internal steel reinforcement, which allows for greater elasticity and provides excellent static and seismic resistance.
In classical architecture, ashlar wall surfaces were often contrasted with rustication, each employing different chisels and techniques.
Once preparations have been made, the bishop—or a priest delegated by him for that purpose—will bless holy water and with it sprinkle first the cross that was erected and then the foundation stone itself.
Indicative of the Cotswolds' uniqueness and value is that five European Special Areas of Conservation, three national nature reserves and more than 80 Sites of Special Scientific Interest are within the Cotswolds AONB.
It was noted that that requirement to use Jerusalem stone in new construction had limited the damage caused by the shelling in the Battle for Jerusalem during the 1948 Palestine war.
The patterns (similar to Liesegang rings) develop during diagenesis due to periodic rhythmic precipitation of iron and manganese hydroxides from oxidizing aqueous fluids, restricted laterally by calcite and clay filled joints.
According to the legend, his sincerity moved God deeply, so God rained thousands of colourful flowers from the sky to reward him.
Hopton Wood Stone (sometimes Hopton-Wood Stone or Hoptonwood Stone) is a type of limestone quarried north of Hopton and west of Middleton-by-Wirksworth, Derbyshire, England.
Rubbing the diamond plate on a whetstone to true (flatten) the whetstone is a modern alternative to more traditional truing methods.
She is sent with the other members of the Fearsome Five, Mammoth, Gizmo, Shimmer and Psimon, along with Doctor Psycho and Hector Hammond to fight against Cyborg and the Metal Men.
Description The rock is actually not a true marble (a metamorphic rock), but a type of limestone (a calcareous sedimentary rock).
In the second story, he and the Warbound leave Earth after Miek's treachery is exposed.[volume & issue needed] In other media Hiriom appears in Planet Hulk (2010), voiced by Liam O'Brien.
Description The stone is known for its beautiful patterns, often imagined to look like animals or flowers.
Despite subsequent finds at this site and others throughout the greater Mesopotamian area, they remain the definitive example of the abstract style of Early Dynastic temple sculpture (2900 BC–2350 BC).
A perpend stone, perpend (parpen, parpend, perpin, and other spellings), through stone, bond stone, or tie stone is a stone that extends through an entire wall's width, from the outer to the inner wall.
The eastern estate can be found on Snelsmoor Lane, and the west estate sprawls in an arc from the Hickory's Smokehouse Derby restaurant on Swarkestone Road to the bottom of Sinfin Moor Lane and Baltimore Bridge.
Where a limestone boulder stands at the edge of a lake so that it is partly covered by water, the underwater part weathers more rapidly than the part above water because it is subject to more constant corrosion by water, accentuated by the abrasive lapping action of waves.
Mary's River area north and northwest of the Bruce Mines of Northern Ontario, about 65 kilometres (40 mi) east of Sault Ste.
She is a member of White Rabbit's animal-themed group Menagerie, and has fought Spider-Man on numerous occasions.
They can commemorate talented writers and officials, inscribe poems, portraits, or maps, and frequently contain the calligraphy of famous historical figures.
A situation that arises as a result of this is the exploitation of natural resources and labor within gemstone mining operations.
The large eyes, which are undoubtedly the most striking stylistic feature that the statues share in common, are made from inlays of white shell and black limestone; one figure has pupils of lapis lazuli.
This conglomerate consisted originally of gravelly sands and sandy gravels composed of subrounded pebbles of red jasper, white quartzite, semi-transparent quartz, and black chert, with coarse-grained sand matrix.
In 2012 Mark Haydock set a record by lifting the stones 25 times in a single day, including 10 times within 1 minute.
The Starrucca Viaduct, finished in 1848, is an example of Pennsylvania bluestone as a building material.
106–107) in The Golden Bough from 1890 charts the various propitiary sacrifices and effigy substitution such as the shadow, states that: Nowhere, perhaps, does the equivalence of the shadow to the life or soul come out more clearly than in some customs practised to this day in South-eastern Europe.
In "One Year Later" (2006), Kid Eternity summons Kole from the afterlife to help locate the soul of Kid Devil's aunt Marla.
Louis, Missouri, where one of his father's works – a sculpture on a "Woman on a Hammock" in white Carrara marble – won the Grand Prize and 6 gold medals.
The memorial is meant to be read not only as the field but also as an erasure of data that refer to memory of the Holocaust.
The normal ear canal is approximately 7mm in diameter and has a volume of approximately 0.8ml (approximately one-sixth of a teaspoon).
Education Haake studied physics and the University of Leeds, and went on to do a PhD at Aston University in Birmingham where he was sponsored by The Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews.
This has become the most prominent park effect, known as park factors (PF), which indicate the difference between a team's offense and defense in home and road games.
The Las Vegas Raiders, despite moving from Oakland, California, to Las Vegas in 2020 kept their training camp at the Napa Valley Marriott and Redwood Middle School in Napa, California, which they have used for training camp since 1996.
Much research in sports psychology and sports medicine is motivated by the needs of elite rather than mass athletes.
The coach is not a passive perceiver of information, and as such his or her perception of events is selective and constructive, not simply a copying process.
Osaka University of Health and Sport Sciences (大阪体育大学, Ōsaka taiiku daigaku) is a private university in the town of Kumatori in Osaka Prefecture, Japan.
In 2017, PlaySight unveiled its SmartField technology for soccer and also released its SmartTracker technology - an autonomous 4K camera that follows all on-court action automatically.
This disorder can develop when marathon runners or endurance event athletes drink more fluid, usually water or sports drinks, than their kidneys can excrete.
Efforts to preserve ethnosport Today, cultural diversity of sport brings an institutional standard of promotion and development to traditional physical activities.
Uses Although Shoe Goo can be used on rubber, wood, glass, concrete and metal, it is most commonly used as a pliable adhesive for separated shoe components, as a filler on worn shoe soles, and as a sealer to repair waterproof fabrics and footwear.
The a-vO2 diff is usually measured in millilitres of oxygen per 100 millilitres of blood (mL/100 mL).
This latter measurement has been criticized by Eric Liknes, Sarah Scott, and David Swanson, who say that mass-specific metabolic rates are inconsistent seasonally.
Rating methods Permutation of standings Several methods offer some permutation of traditional standings.
This excess water can severely dilute the level of sodium in the blood needed for organs, especially the brain, to function properly.
Various studies suggest that the resting metabolic rate of trained muscle is around 55 kJ/kg per day; it then follows that even a substantial increase in muscle mass — say 5 kg — would make only a minor impact on BMR.
The Kharkiv State Academy of Physical Culture is a Ukrainian Academy of university accreditation level in Kharkiv.
It consists primarily of general preparatory and some specialized conditioning exercises to work all the major muscles and joints.
In 2002, a Cleveland Browns exhibition game ended due to lightning near Cleveland Browns Stadium, and severe storms have been known to disrupt training camps.
Because of the growth and development of sports science as an academic discipline, a number of scientists began using and extending the simple hand notation techniques that had served for decades.
Basic studies on both departments last 3 years, master's studies taking 2 years and doctoral studies 3 years.
Biology Molecular biology L-Lactic acid is the primary endogenous agonist of hydroxycarboxylic acid receptor 1 (HCA1), a Gi/o-coupled G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR).
At the end of the season he signed, along with the team's manager George Wakeling, for Bromley where he was immediately put on a contract.
The Matthew effect again plays a role, as the skills learned early in education compound over time, increasing the advantage, with older students becoming more likely to take up leadership roles.
After coaching the taekwondo team of Üsküdar district from 1990 to 1992, Tennur Yerlisu became coach of the Turkey women's taekwondo national team in 1992-93, and again in 2005.
Some academic work is published in forums like the MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference, others in traditional statistics, mathematics, psychology, and computer science journals.
Her two siblings, sister Gülnur and brother Taner Bekir, are both formerly successful national taekwondo practitioners at World and European level.
Production of racemic lactic acid consisting of a 1:1 mixture of D and L stereoisomers, or of mixtures with up to 99.9% L-lactic acid, is possible by microbial fermentation.
In 1961, Guttmann founded the International Medical Society of Paraplegia, now the International Spinal Cord Society (ISCoS); he was the inaugural president of the society, a position that he held until 1970.
Goodman made his Millwall debut on 26 December as a substitute at The Old Den against Leicester City, and it wasn't long before he was a regular member of the first team.
It is one of the three sports schools in Kerala under the Directorate of Sports & Youth Affairs, alongside the Sports Division in Thrissur and the Sports School in Kannur.
On 18 September 2010, Vietnamese weightlifter Hoàng Anh Tuấn, silver medalist in 2008 Summer Olympics was handed a four-year ban, later reduced to two years, for testing positive with the substance.
GPP helps prevent imbalances and boredom with both specific and non-specific exercises by conditioning the body to work.
"Changing policy priorities for sport in England: the emergence of elite sport development as a key policy concern".
The sea level World Record was broken four times as he sat in the track centre waiting for his start.
Now, along with Olympic freestyle wrestling, Greco-Roman wrestling, and Women's freestyle wrestling FILA develops Grappling, Pankration, Beach wrestling, and many other traditional wrestling styles.
The Vassil Levski National Sports Academy (Bulgarian: Национална Спортна Академия "Васил Левски"), commonly referred to as the NSA, is Bulgaria's premiere higher education institution specializing in teaching physical education.
Amphetamine's therapeutic mode of action in narcolepsy primarily involves increasing monoamine neurotransmitter activity in the ARAS.
Studies have shown that running economy improves considerably when training/sleeping at high altitudes and competing near sea level.
Knuckle Stress fractures Collateral ligament injuries Shoulder injuries Shoulder related injuries include rotator cuff tear, strain or tendinitis, biceps tendinitis and SLAP lesion.
A 2015 PLoS One analysis explicitly questioned the sensitivity of CPET change-scores in fatiguing illness.
The viscosity of normal plasma varies with temperature in the same way as does that of its solvent water; a 3 °C change in temperature in the physiological range (36.5 °C to 39.5 °C)reduces plasma viscosity by about 10%.
By analogy, ethnocultural styles of competitions cannot become sports if their origin country is not included in the global world of sport.
MPIs are set up as an indicator of a football player's performance compared to a standard of a specific position on the field.
As exercise intensities increase, the muscles increase the amount of oxygen they extract from the blood, and this therefore results in further increases in a-vO2 diff.
The VMM states that the summit metabolism (or the maximum metabolic rate in response to the cold) increases during the winter, and that the sustained metabolism (or the metabolic rate that can be indefinitely sustained) remains a constant fraction of the former.
Dynamic Stretching involves moving the body part in the desired way until reaching the full range of motion, to improve performance.
A new method for measuring such concepts can be found with the help of the use of wireless foot-worn inertial sensors together with dedicated signal processing algorithms.
She is a former president of the American Kinesiology Association and Fellow of the American College of Sports Medicine.
New ideas upon the working and functioning of the human body emerged during the Renaissance as anatomists and physicians challenged the previously known theories.
Athletes should see a physician and receive a clearance to be sure their symptoms are due to athlete's heart and not another heart disease, such as cardiomyopathy.
Because PEM is also a symptom of long COVID, the 2-day CPET may be useful in evaluating exercise intolerance there as well.
Ken Massey writes that an advantage of computer rating systems is that they can "objectively track all" 351 college basketball teams, while human polls "have limited value".
He wrote IBM BASIC programs to help him manage the Tidewater Tides, and after becoming manager of the New York Mets in 1984, he arranged for a team employee to write a dBASE II application to compile and store advanced metrics on team statistics.
International Technical Trading Inc, Japanese homepage: http://www.shoegoo.co.jp English homepage: http://www.shoegoo.asia
The move was made to offer better facilities and accommodate the growing needs of the school and its students.
Pistorius's eligibility to run in international non-disabled events is sanctioned by the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF).
In order to optimize this measurement for the athletes, the Breaking2 project was set to run over a three day window.
Tennur Yerlisu Lapa (born Tennur Yerlisu; November 2, 1966) is a former World and European champion Turkish female Taekwondo practitioner.
Guttmann and Rob Brydon as one of the seriously injured patients, who were given a purpose in life by the doctor.
In 2013 and 2019, Gollhofer was awarded the IDA Prize of the Albert-Ludwigs-University of Freiburg, respectively, together with colleagues.
After earning her doctoral degree, Williams moved to the University of Pittsburgh, where she worked as a postdoctoral researcher in reproductive sciences.
Korea National Sport University (KNSU) is a South Korean national university located in the neighborhood of Bangi-dong, Songpa-gu, Seoul.
Ho Chi Minh University Of Sport (Vietnamese language: Đại học Thể dục Thể thao Thành Phố Hồ Chí Minh) is a university in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.
In 2006, Pataki helped develop a nanotechnology-based skin care product at AmerElite Solutions, where he was the director of research and development.
Exercise A warm-up generally consists of a gradual increase in intensity in physical activity (a "pulse raiser"), joint mobility exercise, and stretching, followed by the activity.
NatureWorks operates one of the world’s largest polylactic acid (PLA) facilities in Blair, Nebraska, with a production capacity of about 140,000 tonnes per year, supplying feedstock for a wide range of biodegradable packaging and fiber applications.
Synthesis Since the first preparation was reported in 1887, numerous synthetic routes to amphetamine have been developed.
There are several disturbances, at various levels of the central and peripheral nervous system, and the skeletal muscle that contribute to cramping.
Williams studied biology at Bucknell University before moving to Ohio State University for a graduate degree.
Stopping for 10 seconds per station results in 1-2 minutes of added time, but the loss of stamina due to dehydration would add much more.
The Pygmalion effect, Galatea effect, and Matthew effect are examples of effects which impact player motivation.
The difference in maturity often contributes to the effect, with age category, skill level and sport context also impacting the risk of the relative age effect.
In Minor League Baseball, there are 160 affiliate teams above the rookie complex level, across 14 leagues, of which all have their own park factors, determined by various offensive stats, the most common being runs and home runs.
The university provides education in sports and gymnastics from undergraduate to graduate and postgraduate.
He served as director of research for the Sheffield section of the National Centre for Sport and Exercise Medicine from 2014 to 2016, when he was succeeded by Elizabeth Goyder.
Hoy took his first victory in international competition at the opening round of the 2015 European Le Mans Series at Silverstone where he drove a Ginetta-Nissan to a class win alongside team-mate Charlie Robertson.
EAMC are a common condition that occurs during or after exercise, often during endurance events such as a triathlon or marathon.
In June 2017, Verizon Ventures and golfer Greg Norman announced an $11 million investment in PlaySight to further SmartCourt expansion in tennis, basketball and other sports and to also introduce the technology to golf.
In 1992, she began an academic career as a research fellow at the College of Sports Sciences and Technologies of Hacettepe University.
Exercise-associated muscle cramps (EAMC) are defined as cramping (painful muscle spasms) during or immediately following exercise.
Obesity has been linked to season of birth with increased chances, potentially due to surrounding temperature at birth, with winter and spring having the highest correlation, but physical inactivity is still a larger risk factor.
Medal history Honours 2005: Honorary Doctor of Science, University of Edinburgh 2005: Appointed a Member of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (MBE) "for services to cycling" in the 2005 New Year Honours.
The university was founded on the basis of Sports and Gymnastics School II by the Vietnamese prime minister on September 18, 1985, by the Decision 234/HDBT.
Consequently, dextroamphetamine produces roughly three to four times more central nervous system (CNS) stimulation than levoamphetamine; however, levoamphetamine has slightly greater cardiovascular and peripheral effects.
Warming up in other contexts Psychologists, educators, singers, and similar professionals use warm-ups in therapeutic or learning sessions before starting or after a break; these warm-ups can include vocal and physical exercises, interactive and improvisational games, role plays, etc.
Rondos are said to improve player decision making, coordination, team play, creativity, competitiveness, and physical conditioning.
Coaching career Following his retirement as a player, Goodman joined Reading as a sports scientist in the summer of 2005, before later joining then Northern Ireland manager Lawrie Sanchez' backroom team as a conditioning coach for the Euro 2008 qualifying campaign.
Haake was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2020 Birthday Honours for services to sport.
Additionally, healthy people generally recover from a CPET within 24 hours while people with ME/CFS do not.
At Kerala School Sports Meet GV Raja Public School has earned recognition as a top performer at the Kerala School Sports Meet, an annual event.
It may be a symptom of either over-exertion during exercise, or from too abruptly ending an exercise session.
In September 2000, he took up a position at the Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg as a professor in the department of exercise and movement sciences, becoming director and full professor at the Institute of Sport and Sport Science.
It is the only national sport university of South Korea and offers degrees from undergraduate to doctoral level.
See also Exercise intolerance Exercise-induced bronchoconstriction Exercise-induced urticaria Exercise-associated hyponatremia Heat intolerance Ventilatory threshold References External links Erowid: Health water poisoning
He is professor of sports engineering at Sheffield Hallam University, England and is founding director of the university's advanced wellbeing research centre.
To demonstrate the application of the technology, a number of healthcare exemplars have been selected.
Cause A study of 20 volunteers conducted at Nagoya University in Japan associated a higher degree of exercise-induced nausea after eating.
Benzedrine sulfate was introduced 3 years later and was used to treat a wide variety of medical conditions, including narcolepsy, obesity, low blood pressure, low libido, and chronic pain, among others.
The idea of a science of baseball statistics began to achieve legitimacy in 1977 when Bill James began releasing Baseball Abstracts, his annual compendium of baseball data.
23 The discovery of a 5th-century Coptic monastic building was announced at the Al Qalaye site in the Beheira Governorate, Egypt.
1916) 8 July: Arthur Evans, English archaeologist best known for discovering the palace of Knossos on Crete (d.
Antonio García Cubas makes first scholarly description of the ruins of the Toltec capital in Tula, Hidalgo, Mexico.
Large-scale excavation of Buckton Castle in the north west of England begins under the direction of Brian Grimsditch of the University of Manchester Archaeology Unit.
1908) Deaths March 31 - Charles "Hindoo" Stuart, Anglo-Irish British East India Company officer and collector of Hindu antiquities (b.
Cline, American Classical archaeologist Timothy Taylor, English archaeologist Deaths February 20 - Leonard Woolley, English archaeologist (b.
Publications Narrative of the Operations and Recent Discoveries Within the Pyramids, Temples, Tombs, and Excavations in Egypt and Nubia by Giovanni Battista Belzoni.
Publications 1753: Robert Wood's The ruins of Palmyra; otherwise Tedmor in the desart published in English and French.
Finds April 13 – The Winged Victory of Samothrace (a representation of Nike) is found in excavations on the Greek island of Samothrace by Charles Champoiseau.
The Kharosti scrolls, the oldest collection of Buddhist manuscripts in the world, are radiocarbon-dated by the Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation (ANSTO).
Events December 14 - inaugural meeting of the London and Middlesex Archaeological Society Publications John Yonge Akerman - Remains of Pagan Saxondom.
Events Christian Jürgensen Thomsen is appointed curator of the collections of the Museum of Northern Antiquities in Copenhagen, where he begins to organize them according to the three-age system.
August 10: Archaeologists working on the Stone Age site at Star Carr in North Yorkshire announce that they have found the earliest surviving remains of a house in Britain, dating from at least 8,500 years BC.
Deaths 1780: March 14 – Roque Joaquín de Alcubierre, Spanish-born military engineer and pioneer Classical archaeologist (b.
Events April 1 - Industrial Monuments Survey for the Ministry of Public Building and Works (Great Britain) commenced by Rex Wailes.
1755: Several sepulchral inscriptions and figures, in bas-relief, are discovered at Bonn in Lower Germany.
Explorations 1786: Antonio Bernasconi and Colonel Antonio del Rio examine the ruins of Palenque, making the first map of the site and some crude excavations.
Explorations Excavations Finds 1661: Athanasius Kircher discovers the ruins of a church in Rome said to have been constructed by the Emperor Constantine on the site of Saint Eustace's vision (later reconstructed as the Santuario della Mentorella).
Explorations Excavations Finds 1673: December 11 - Gray's Inn Lane Hand Axe excavated in London and recognised by John Conyers, the first paleolithic artefact to be identified as having human origins.
Finds April 13 - Dutch East India Company ship Vergulde Draeck wrecked in 1656 off Western Australia.
1719: December 2 - Workers in Falun Mine, Sweden, find the apparently petrified body of "Fet-Mats" Israelsson (d.
The tophet in Carthage is first excavated; since then, hundreds of urns and stelae (engraved stones) have been recovered.
Finds 1790 Pediment of the Roman temple at Bath, England, is discovered during work near the Roman Baths.
At Les Eyzies, France, a cave site is excavated containing Cro-Magnon remains, at the end of La Rue du Scez overlooking Le Havre du Scez (Saie).
November 20 – Luigi Palma di Cesnola, Italian American soldier, diplomat, archaeologist and museum director (born 1832) == References ==
Miscellaneous John Disney endows the Disney Professorship of Archaeology in the University of Cambridge, first held by John Howard Marsden Births 29 June: Jane Dieulafoy, born Jeanne Magre, French archaeologist, excavator of Susa, explorer, novelist and journalist (d.
At Les Eyzies, France, alongside the Cro-Magnon remains, numerous flint tools of Aurignacian manufacture are found.
Births 1730: September 16 - William Hamilton, Scottish diplomat, antiquarian, archaeologist and volcanologist (d.
Christian Thomsen, a Danish archaeologist, developed the three age system to date objects in museums.
It is put on public display and published in 1746, but poorly cared for until it gets an official curator, half a century later.
1713: Gold aureus coins found in Transylvania provide the only known evidence for Roman usurper Sponsianus.
The Narsaq stick is found in Greenland, the first example of Viking Age runic inscriptions found in the country.
1877) See also List of years in archaeology 1959 in archaeology 1961 in archaeology == References ==
November 22 - Frédéric Cailliaud discovers the old Roman Mons Smaragdus emerald mines at Sikait, Egypt.
Robert Huntington donates the limestone false door stele of Shery from Saqqara (Fourth Dynasty of Egypt), one of the first large Middle Eastern sculptures seen in Western Europe.
Events March - First Conference of Western Archaeologists on Problems of Point Typology at Idaho State College Museum.
Grime's Graves in the English county of Norfolk is excavated in 1868-1870, including Gallery III2b of Greenwell's Pit.
1798: December 10 - Some antiquities being shipped to England by Sir William Hamilton are lost in the wreck of HMS Colossus.
1797: James Hutton, a Scotsman who has been called "the Father of Geology," publishes theories describing the earth as destroying and renewing itself in a never-ending cycle.
26 Earliest evidence of a 430,000 years old wooden tools was announced at the Marathousa 1 site in Greece's central Peloponnese.
7 May: A team of Israeli archaeologists discover the tomb of Herod the Great, ruler of Judea (1st century BC).
c.1758) See also List of years in archaeology 1827 in archaeology 1829 in archaeology == References ==
Finds February 17 - The burial vault of Dunfermline Abbey in Scotland, containing the remains of Robert the Bruce, is uncovered and secured for scholarly examination.
Historic American Buildings Survey records Johnson's Mill Bridge, a wooden covered bridge over Chickie's Creek in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania.
Births 1702: August 16 - Roque Joaquín de Alcubierre, Spanish-born military engineer and pioneer Classical archaeologist (d.
The oldest known representation of a cannon, a stone relief sculpture dated 1128, is discovered carved in the walls of Cave 149 of the Dazu Rock Carvings in Dazu, Chongqing, China.
Births August 20 - Charles Roach Smith, British archaeologist; co-founder of the British Archaeological Association (d.
1849) 27 October: Worthington George Smith, English illustrator, palaeolithic archaeologist and mycologist (b.
Statue of Ramesses II is discovered at the Great Temple of Ptah of Mit-Rahina near Memphis, Egypt by Giovanni Battista Caviglia.
Explorations May 29 – Deir ed-Darb, a first-century BCE monumental tomb from Second Temple Judea, is discovered in the Ottoman Syria Vilayet by a Royal Engineers soldier.
Births Nikolai Grube, German Mayan epigrapher Li Feng, Chinese American sinologist Deaths William Duncan Strong, American archaeologist (born 1899) == References ==
Publications Rudolf Ernst Brünnow and Alfred von Domaszewski begin publication of Die Provincia Arabia, containing a detailed description of Petra.
1841) 1797: October 5 - John Gardiner Wilkinson, English traveller, writer and pioneer Egyptologist (d.
In Wales, at Cae Gwyn Cave, Tremeirchion, Denbighshire, the cave is extensively investigated from 1883 to 1887 by H.
Finds Helge Ingstad and Anne Stine Ingstad find apparent Viking site at L'Anse aux Meadows in Newfoundland.
Events 1693 - John Aubrey completes his Monumenta Britannica, or, A miscellanie of British antiquities in manuscript.
Publications 1774: Don Bernardo Miera y Pacheco identifies the Chaco Canyon area as "Chaca" on a map.
Excavations 1750s: Formal excavations continue at Pompeii and at Herculaneum including discovery of the Villa of the Papyri and Herculaneum papyri.
The text of the Iguvine Tablets (3rd–1st centuries BC) is first published, by Francis William Newman in London.
Miscellaneous Edward Herbert Thompson buys the ruins of Chichen Itza for 75 United States dollars General Land Office special agent S.
Excavation of the Minoan town at Gournia by Harriet Boyd-Hawes and Blanche Wheeler Williams begins (continues to 1904).
concerning Some Roman Antiquities in Lincolnshire", Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society 22: pp.
Ledyard Smith, American archaeologist of the Americas (born 1901) December 18: Theresa Goell, American archaeologist of the Near East (born 1901) == References ==
1748: Pompeii rediscovered as the result of formal excavations by Spanish military engineer Rocque Joaquin de Alcubierre.
The fragment, with a surface of 2 by 2.8 centimetres (0.79 by 1.10 in), is the oldest piece of writing from Jerusalem yet discovered, dating back to the 14th century BC.
Publications 1700: Abraham de la Pryme, "A Letter from the Reverend Mr Abraham de la Pryme, to the Very Reverend Dr G.
1694 - Maltese canon Ignazio di Costanzo reports in a letter that the Cippi of Melqart bear an inscription in the Phoenician alphabet.
Excavations Work begins at Pueblo Bonito and other sites in Chaco Canyon by Neil Merton Judd for the National Geographic Society (through 1927).
The Cambrian Archaeological Association is founded in Wales by Harry Longueville Jones and John Williams (Ab Ithel) and launches its journal Archaeologia Cambrensis.
Explorations Édouard Lartet and Henry Christy begin joint exploration of caves in the valley of the Vézère, in southern France.
Excavations at the Palace of Nestor in Pylos resume (first started in 1939) by Carl Blegen (continues to 1969).
In Greece, philologist Spyridon Findiklis and his assistant Ioannis Papadakis begin the first excavations in Thebes and Plataea.
17 A radiocarbon study of 136 ancient organic weapons revealed that the bow and arrow spread rapidly across western North America 1,400 years ago, nearly simultaneously replacing the atlatl in the south while coexisting with it in the north for centuries.
Excavation at Khirbet Tibnah in the Ramallah and al-Bireh Governorate in the State of Palestine, led by Dvir Raviv of the Bar-Ilan University.
"87Sr/86Sr sourcing of ponderosa pine used in Anasazi Great House construction at Chaco Canyon, New Mexico." Journal of Archaeological Science 32 pp.
Excavations 1794–96: Roman tessellated pavements found at Frampton, Dorset, depicting one of the earliest known Christian symbols in England.
Holsinger recommends creating a national park to preserve archaeological sites in Chaco Canyon Births February 15 – André Parrot, French archaeologist of the Near East (d.
Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology - Harvard University project at Copán in Honduras concludes.
Australian researchers claimed to have discovered the wreck of Captain Cook's HMS Endeavour off Newport, Rhode Island in North America where she was sunk in 1778.
"Cave of Letters" at Nahal Hever in the Judaean Desert (with correspondence from the Bar Kokhba revolt of ca.
1788 Excavations of Roman city of Viroconium Cornoviorum (Wroxeter) in England by civil engineer Thomas Telford.
Ongoing excavations at Aphrodisias in Anatolia begun by Kenan Erim under the aegis of New York University.
Other events 1743: The Papenbroek Collection is bequeathed to Leiden University, comprising about 150 antiquities.
First evidence for human occupation of Australia during the last glacial period discovered at Kenniff Cave, Queensland.
Finds The Crondall Hoard, a hoard of one hundred and one old French and Anglo-Saxon coins, is found in the village of Crondall in the English county of Hampshire.
June - Archaeologists excavating the Templo Mayor site in Tenochtitlan (modern-day Mexico City) discover a rare child sacrifice to the Aztec war god Huitzilopochtli.
Upon digging further, hot mineral waters gush forth and interrupt the work: the old Roman sewer had been found, and the water is drained off.
The Ancient Monuments Protection Act is passed in the United Kingdom and establishes protection of ancient monuments.
1890) 1793: January 22 - Caspar Reuvens, founder of Rijksmuseum van Oudheden (Netherlands National Museum of Antiquities), first professor of archaeology (d.
Finds May 27 - German Classical archaeologist Heinrich Schliemann discovers "Priam's Treasure" at the presumed site of Troy in Anatolia.
September 1 - The shipwreck of the RMS Titanic (1912) in the North Atlantic is located by a joint American-French expedition led by Dr Robert Ballard (WHOI) and Jean-Louis Michel (Ifremer) using side-scan sonar from RV Knorr.
1828 in archaeology Events The 'Metternich Stela' is presented by Muhammad Ali of Egypt to Prince Metternich.
Explorations Excavations Finds 1693 - Alfred Jewel discovered at North Petherton in Somerset, England.
1727: Gilt bronze head from cult statue of Sulis Minerva from the Temple at Bath, England, found by workmen excavating a sewer.
1754: French scholar Jean-Jacques Barthélemy deciphers Palmyrene inscriptions, the first successful decipherment of a previously "dead" ancient script in modern scholarship.
Religious artefacts discovered beneath the Seven-story Stone Pagoda in Tappyeong-ri, Chungju, Korea.
1796: The Roman fort, vicus, bridge abutments and associated remains of Hadrian's Wall are excavated at Chesters, in England.
Events 1667: Henry Howard donates the first of the Arundel marbles to the University of Oxford (displayed in Ashmolean Museum).
November 28 - John Lloyd Stephens, American explorer of Maya civilization sites in Central America (d.
These three ages were the "Stone Age," "Bronze Age," and "Iron Age." While not specifically the year 1821, this time period is when one of the most significant findings regarding time and dating archaeological findings was discovered.
List Chief of General Staff of Georgian Armed Forces (1991–2008) For period from 1921 to 1991, see Chief of the General Staff of the Soviet Union.
He studied international law and international relations at Tbilisi State University, followed by a Masters in Law at Indiana University in the USA.
Several Georgian Dream officials have accused her of working to spread fake news about Georgia in Ukraine.
The February 2004 constitutional amendment reestablished the position of prime minister and the Government of Georgia who were responsible before the president and the Parliament.
Furthermore, the oversight of the public budget is weak, and as of 2011 the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and other government bodies had yet to institute internal auditing.
The head of the Government of Georgia is the prime minister, who appoints and dismisses ministers and assigns the duties of vice prime minister to one of the government members.
The Guard actively participated in the conflicts that occurred in Georgian territory (Samachablo, Abkhazia).
Burjanadze said the arrests marked the start of a "punitive campaign" by the government against the opposition, ahead of the mass protest planned for 9 April to demand Saakashvili's resignation.
Although other minorities such as Catholics and Muslims had freedom to exercise their religion, they could officially register their religious groups only as unions or foundations, and not as churches.
The incoming government won the parliamentary vote of confidence with 99 votes in favor to 6 against on 20 June 2018.
He graduated from the Department of History of Tbilisi State University in 1958 and obtained a Doctorate in Historical Sciences in 1985.
In 2011, two businessmen from Israel, Ron Fuchs and Ze'ev Frenkiel, were imprisoned for offering a bribe to the Prime Minister, but were pardoned later that year, supposedly for humanitarian reasons.
Former Prime Minister Vano Merabishvili, governor of Kakheti Zurab Tchiaberashvili and Head of Penitentiary Department Bacho Akhalaia were among the ones who were arrested.
After the Sovietization of Georgia, he retired from politics and worked as a legal consultant in Georgia and Kazakhstan and engaged in research of pre- and revolutionary Georgia's history.
From 2005 to 2007 he was Head of the Department for Cultural Heritage and Relations with the Diaspora, and from 2007 to 2009 he was a Counselor at the Embassy of Georgia in the Russian Federation.
He argues that it will not only lower risks of a new military conflict between the two countries, but also bring the stability in the region which will also help Georgia's accession to the EU and NATO.
This time, Ukraine endorsed Tbilisi’s claims, turning over several patrol boats to the Georgian Navy and starting to train Georgian crews, but was unable to include in the final fleet deal a transfer of the formerly Poti-based vessels to Georgia.
From 2002 to 2005 he left government, becoming managing partner of the law firm Kavtaradze & Partners[1].
He chaired the Parliamentary Committee for the Euro-Atlantic Integration until 19 July 2007, when he was appointed as a Minister for the Conflict Issues, and hence, a chief negotiator in the Abkhazian and South Ossetian affairs.
The first government of Irakli Kobakhidze was the government of Georgia, led by Irakli Kobakhidze as the Prime Minister.
The legal bases for the Agency's operations are the Constitution of Georgia, the Georgian Law on State Procurement, international agreements and treaties, and the Agency regulations developed in accordance with those laws and treaties.
On 26 May at about 00:15, Georgian police began to suppress the protests with tear gas and rubber bullets.
Beginning in 1968, Gagoshidze has led various archaeological expeditions to Israel, Cyprus, Azerbaijan, Georgia's Ksani river valley, Samadlo, Dedoplistsqaro and other localities.
Career After Georgia's declaration of independence, he served as a Minister of War in the government of the Noe Ramishvili from 1918 to 1919 and then was elected to the Constituent Assembly of Georgia.
The cabinet was reconfirmed, with 101 votes in favor to 12 against, by the parliament on 14 July after the previously announced structural reforms in the cabinet ministries were implemented.
From 1920 to 1921, he led an opposition group "Skhivi" ("Beam") within the Georgian Social Democratic (Menshevik) Party.
Simon Mdivani is the first foreign ambassador to recognize the Kemalist regime poised to overthrow the power of Sultan Mehmed VI and the Ottoman Empire.
On 25 March 1993, the Parliament of Georgia adopted a resolution on the establishment of the State Constitutional Commission of Georgia and the approval of its Statute.
In 2007–2009 worked as the professor at The German Research Institute for Public Administration-speyer (Scholarship of Humboldt Foundation).
The government was formed by the ruling Georgian Dream–Democratic Georgia coalition after the preceding one was dissolved following Prime Minister Giorgi Kvirikashvili's resignation on 13 June 2018.
History The Tbilisi Appeal court was established on 1 November 2005, after the previously-operating Tbilisi Regional Court was abolished.
In April, she refused to have her faction represented in the parliamentary delegation visiting Ukraine along with GD.
The words "Soviet Socialist" were removed from the name of the country and the state was renamed "Republic of Georgia", state symbols were changed, the leading role of the Communist Party was abolished and political pluralism was introduced.
Election process A group of at least 30 electors is required to nominate the presidential candidate to the Electoral College.
He served as Director General of the National Agency for Cultural Heritage Preservation of Georgia from November 2008 until his resignation on 18 January 2013.
Nikoloz (Nika) Vacheishvili (Georgian: ნიკოლოზ ვაჩეიშვილი) (born 26 May 1968 in Tbilisi) is a Georgian art scholar, politician and the former Minister of Culture, Heritage Preservation and Sport in the Cabinet of Georgia.
Abkhazian authorities have accused Georgia of maintaining a blockade of the break-away province in order to weaken and isolate it.
He continued his studies in turn at primary school, at the Lyceum of Kutaisi, at the Faculty of Natural Sciences of the University of Odesa, in Ukraine.
The navy-building began with equipping fishing vessels by small caliber anti-aircraft guns and machine guns.
The economic policies of the state are described in the action plan of the Georgian Government for 2004–2009 titled For United and Powerful Georgia.
In a post on Facebook on 2 September 2019, Bakhtadze announced his resignation, saying that "at this stage", he has accomplished his mission.
On the night of 13 August 1992, Kitovani's force entered the autonomous republic of Abkhazia, whose leadership had taken a series of steps towards secession from Georgia, in order to establish control over the region's railways sabotaged by Gamsakhurdia's loyal militias.
As defined by the Constitution of Georgia, amended in 2017 and 2018, the Prosecutor's Office is led by the Prosecutor General (გენერალური პროკურორი), who is elected by the Parliament of Georgia for a term of 6 years.
Before the 2003 Rose Revolution, according to Foreign Policy, Georgia was among the most corrupt nations in Eurasia.
History The history of "Delta" dates back to the 60s, and from the beginning of the 90s the research center was subordinated to the Ministry of Defense of Georgia.
The main functions of the ministry are to provide incentives for economic growth in the country utilizing an effective economic policy.
The government, during the building's construction, promoted it as a symbol of Georgia's bright, democratic future.
However, Tamar Beruchachvili, the Deputy State Minister for European and Euro-Atlantic Integration of Georgia, reaffirmed that European integration remained Georgia's "strategic priority" and that Georgia had no plans to join the Eurasian Economic Union.
Levan Izoria holds a PhD degree in law from the Georg-August University Göttingen, Germany (with honors).
The concordat confirms the Georgian Orthodox Church's ownership of all churches and monasteries on the territory of Georgia, including those in ruins or non-operating.
The cabinet mostly consisted of the members of the preceding Ivanishvili government, dominated by the Georgian Dream coalition, which had to win approval by the parliament after the October 2013 presidential election as envisaged by the recent constitutional amendments.
His name was related to the reform of Patrol Police of Georgia, which contributed to his status of a reformer.
He was elected president of the local section, then a member of the central committee of the Georgian Socialist-Federalist Revolutionary Party.
He served as Deputy Chair of the National Security Council from November 1992 to June 1994, and as Ambassador of Georgia to the United States, Canada and Mexico from July 1994 to March 2002.
From 1994 to 1998 he worked for a series of Non Governmental Organization in Tbilisi, including the Red Cross, UNICEF, and UNDP.
In 2020, she was against a potential visit by Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to Georgia in the framework of Georgia's presidency of the Council of Europe.
The State United Social Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Finance of Georgia are the main sources of funding for the Ministry of Health, Labor and Social Affairs.
Demographics Health Society Education Economy Globalization and Innovation Politics Communication and Information Technology Environment == References ==
International contacts were hindered by Ioseliani's well-known status as a crowned king the kingpin and Kitovani's criminal past.
Zurab Zhvania was appointed prime minister and Nino Burjanadze, the interim president, became speaker of parliament.
The Cartu Foundation has invested in various projects, such as the arts, sports, agriculture, and infrastructure.
The position is equivalent to the interior minister in other countries, like the Home Secretary in the United Kingdom, the Minister of Public Safety in Canada, or similar to a combination of the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security in the United States.
Also was the head of the Georgian group of trilateral commission and prepared some documents used in the Genocide Commission.
As a result, Georgia broke off diplomatic relations with Russia and has left the Commonwealth of Independent States.
Bakhtadze's incoming cabinet won the parliamentary vote of confidence with 99 votes in favor to 6 against on 20 June 2018.
Budget The budget of the Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development in 2023 is GEL 558.2 million (USD 210.2 million), down by 374.2 million (USD 140.9 million) compared to 2022.
He took part in fighting against the South Ossetian militias in the early months of 1991 and was promoted to colonel.
From 1998 to 2002 he worked in the Council of Justice, apart from an eight-month period as director of the Justice Training Center, a not-for-profit institution.
2011 protests The protests led by Burjanadze began on 21 May 21, 2011 when over 10,000 Georgians attended a demonstration in Tbilisi demanding Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili's resignation.
During the war and until 1995 she was the Chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and Inter-Ethnic Relations of the Government of the Autonomous Republic of Abkhazia.
He then studied and worked at the Institute for the USA and Canada Studies of the Soviet Union Academy of Sciences from 1974 to 1989.
In July 2007 Georgia sent an extra 1,400 troops to Iraq; that brought the total number of troops in Iraq to 2,000.
Каталог археологического материала, Тб.,1981; The Georgian women jewelry, Tbilisi, 1981 (in Georgian, Russian and Spanish languages); Trialeti burials, III, Trialeti antique burials, Tb., 1982 (in Georgian and Russian); Au pays de la Toison d’or.
Cooperative 09 or more commonly Cooperative Longbow/Cooperative Lancer 09 is the name of NATO military exercise held in Georgia within the framework of Partnership for Peace, Mediterranean Dialogue and Istanbul Cooperation Initiative programmes from May 6 until June 3, 2009.
After the bloodless Rose Revolution, which brought Eduard Shevardnadze's presidency to an end, Japaridze served as a foreign minister in the new government from 30 November 2003, to 18 March 2004.
Budget The budget of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Social Affairs of Georgia in 2023 is GEL 6.86 billion (USD 2.58 billion), compared to GEL 620.8 million (USD 233.8 million) in 2022 (increased rate by GEL 65.2 million).
Publications Iulon Gagoshidze has published nine monographs Antiques from Ksani Valley, Tbilisi, 1964; Самадло.
1928 to 1937, the definitive exile in France He continued to fight for the liberation of Georgia from Soviet occupation.
Prosecutor's Office of Georgia (Georgian: საქართველოს პროკურატურა, romanized: sakartvelos p'rok'urat'ura) is a government institution in Georgia, a legal party responsible for official prosecution in courts.
The State Procurement and Competition Agency, which coordinates and monitors public contracts, has also been praised for its transparent approach to public procurement.
When police officers beat a man to death in Kryve Ozero, she personally spearheaded the investigation into the murder and disbanded the local police station entirely.
It was renamed to Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development during government restructuring in 2010.
Vote of confidence Upon the recognition of the full powers of the newly elected Parliament, the government relinquishes its authority to the Parliament and continues to perform its duties until a new prime minister is appointed.
History The position was (re)introduced in accordance with the Georgian Law on Defence of 31 October 2018.
The Chief is appointed by the Minister of Defence and reports to the Minister and Chief of Defence Forces.
It had its precursor—the Commander-in-Chief of the Army—in the Democratic Republic of Georgia from 1918 to 1921.
It succeeded the Second Garibashvili government after Irakli Garibashvili's resignation on 29 January 2024.
Later life After his dismissal from office, Vardiko Nadibaidze finally withdrew from political life and began to lead a somewhat secluded lifestyle in his own house in Tbilisi.
The government is constitutionally barred from holding any other office except in a political party, being engaged in entrepreneurial activities, or receiving remuneration for any other activity, except for academic and teaching.
The Court discusses appeals on the judgments of the first instance courts, and its jurisdiction covers eastern Georgia.
Between 1995 and 2003, she was president of the Human Rights, Inter-Ethnic Relations and Ethics Commission of the Supreme Council of Abkhazia.
The coup was led by their respective commanders: Tengiz Kitovani and former thief in law Jaba Iosseliani.
The agreement recognizes the special role of the GOC in the history of Georgia and devolves authority over all religious matters to it.
The ministry has all the power to regulate all medical activities throughout the country through its chapters.
He was appointed to the position after the reformation of the Cabinet by Prime Minister Lado Gurgenidze on 30 January 2008.
After leaving the government service, he was secretary-general of the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC) from November 2004 to April 2005 and president of the U.S.-Caucasus Institute in Tbilisi.
The system practically precludes corruption, increases the confidence and involvement of the society in state procurement, ensures fair competition, facilitates rational disbursement of administrative and financial resources, and saves time and money.
The Court consists of 3 chambers and 1 board: Chamber for Civil Cases Chamber for Administrative Cases Chamber for Criminal Cases Investigatory Board The Tbilisi Appeal Court's staff is overseen by a Court Manager.
His televised address broadcast (in Russian) by the local Sukhumi channel on August 25, 1992, in which warned the secessionist leaders that “if 100,000 Georgians die, then all 97,000 [Abkhazians] on your side will be killed” sparked much controversy.
Prime Minister Irakli Garibashvili announced in a government meeting in December 2022 that an information technology hub is planned to be established in the building.
Since the yolks of older eggs are more watery, which makes separation difficult, it is best to begin with the freshest eggs available.
Solid bags Prepared foods can be securely packed into plastic bags, frozen, and often packed into paperboard folding cartons.
Similar methods exist throughout Latin America and the rest of the world, under distinct names, including pachamanca and huatia in the Andean region; curanto in Chile and southern Argentina; berarubu in Brazil; cocido enterrado in Colombia; or hāngī in New Zealand.
The asado en barbacoa (roasting in barbacoa) was widely prepared in Mexico at countryside festivities, such as rodeos (cattle roundups), herraderos (cattle branding celebrations), jaripeos and bull-fights, patron saint festivities of the hacienda, or family picnics.
Comparison to other methods of preparation Water is a relatively efficient conductor of heat, but it also has a fairly low limit to its maximum potential temperature (100 °C or 212 °F at sea level).
Porous bags Some dry products, typically grains, are sold in perforated plastic bags and designed for convenient cooking directly in the enclosure.
Implementing cofiring would require few modifications to the current characteristics to power plants, as only the fuel for the boiler would be altered.
Malosol or malossol (Russian: малосол, “lightly salted”) is a culinary term used in Russia and Eastern Europe to describe foods preserved with a low concentration of salt.
In 2026, the company fell into receivership, only weeks after being turned to Gordon Brothers by Quadrant Private Equity in 2025.
Typically an egg is poached just to the point where the white is no longer runny, and the yolk is beginning to harden around the edges.
In turn, a large amount of heat-sensitive nutrients may degrade, and antioxidant properties are lost.
The provolone, coated with flour and often topped with chilli flakes and oregano, is placed directly on the grill, on small stones or inside a foil plate, and cooked until part-melted.
While working his first company, J&W Foods, Schafer also worked at many local restaurants in the Baltimore area, including Gibby's, Chiapparelli's, and Tully's.
See also Corn on the cob List of cooking appliances Food portal Technology portal References External links How to Start Your Own Corn Roasting Business.
In Cuban cuisine, the Cuban sandwich (ham, roasted pork, Swiss cheese and pickles) is traditionally grilled à la plancha.
The common, but undocumented, origin given is that it was first used by Polish bakers around 1840, hence its name, and as a method was brought to France in the beginning of the 1920s.
Charcoal is a lightweight black carbon residue produced by strongly heating wood (or other animal and plant materials) in minimal oxygen to remove all water and volatile constituents.
The popularity of breadcrumbs in the fairy tale led to the use of the word breadcrumb as a navigation element that allows users to keep track of their locations within programs or documents.
Fresh The breads used to make soft or fresh breadcrumbs are not quite as dry, so the crumbs are larger and produce a softer coating, crust, or stuffing.
Crack the egg in half and cradle the yolk in one half of the shell (using the other half of the shell to keep it from slipping out) while draining the white into a bowl.
To avoid opening the pressure cooker too often while cooking different vegetables with varying cooking times, the vegetables that take longer to cook can be cut into smaller pieces and vegetables that cook faster can be cut into larger pieces.
A study of restaurants serving hash in South Carolina found that it was particularly popular around Columbia.
Method Steaming works by boiling water continuously, causing it to vaporize into steam; the steam excludes the air and carries heat to the nearby food, thus cooking the food.
The mini tour of the Pitmaster Facility and view of his mini grilling collection features history and artifacts of Swift and Company and C.F.
Boil-in-bags are a form of packaged food products in which bagged food is heated or cooked in boiling water.
The dish Discada or disco technically denotes the disc itself, though it has become synonymous with the popular meal commonly made on it.
As of 2007, coal-fired ovens were quite uncommon in the Western United States with only five others west of the Mississippi: four in an Arizona chain and one more in Las Vegas.
Traditionally, hash was made by stewing the ingredients in an iron kettle over a wood fire, a method which is still used by some restaurants and hash houses.
It consists of digging a hole, lighting a stove with firewood and stones, and cooking the food (traditionally pork or chicken) over low heat, all covered with more soil.
Omelettes, pancakes, crepes, paninis, yakisoba noodles, fried rice, tacos, quesadillas, grilled steak, bacon, flatbread, pizza, jerk chicken, crab cakes and sautéed vegetables are just a few examples of the wide range of foods that can be prepared on a flattop grill.
Recipes vary widely by region: Puerto Rican adobo, a rub used principally on meats, differs greatly from the Mexican variety.
Starching for juice Natural juice harvest Natural juices are only available for collagen-rich ingredients such as pork skin, beef tendons, or pork feet.
History From the Neolithic period, ceramic steamers known as yan have been found at the Banpo site, dating to 5000 BC.
The winning team will move on to the championship round, where they will compete for a $50,000 prize.
In English, however, "hibachi" often refers to small cooking grills typically made of aluminum or cast iron, with the latter generally being of a higher quality.
Square charcoal grills almost exclusively have four legs with two wheels on the back so the grill can be tilted back using the handles for the lid to roll the grill.
In both cases, its main purpose is to deactivate enzymes that cause browning as well as textural changes and off-flavors.
40-parts-to-60-parts of old-dough-to-new-dough by weight, or 2-to-3, is known as the back-slopping ratio, and changes to that ratio change the pH of the just-refreshed dough.
One example of this is the production of carbon disulphide through the reaction of sulfur vapors with hot charcoal.
This advantage allows hot water blanching at lower temperatures, but requires longer blanching times.
After grilling it is typically chopped for filling tacos and burritos, which also minimizes toughness.
Additionally, there are several other types of meats that are barbecued in Mexico, depending on the geographic region.
Simmering generally uses a higher temperature for cooking, and because it surrounds the food in water that maintains a more or less constant temperature, simmering cooks food very evenly.
Description The flattop grill is a versatile platform for many cooking techniques such as sautéing, toasting, simmering, shallow frying, stir frying, pan frying, browning, blackening, grilling, baking, braising, and roasting, and can also be used for flambéing.
The Schafer brothers became partners in a pit beef restaurant out of a small roadside shack on Route 40 in Baltimore, a stretch of roadway known as "Pit Beef Row" and considered a part of Baltimore history.
The century-old tradition has become increasingly fashionable outside of its usual environs", Food Republic
Apart from ensuring uniform cooking, sous vide cooking facilitates development of desired organoleptic flavors and limits off flavors due to oxidation.
Julienne, allumette, or French cut is a culinary knife cut in which the food item is cut into long thin strips, similar to matchsticks.
This alternative fuel mixture burns incredibly efficiently and leaves little residue, making it a reliable source for cooking in the undeveloped country.
Carryover cooking is often used as a finishing step in preparation of foods that are roasted or grilled, and should be accounted for in recipes as it can increase the internal temperature of foods by temperatures between 5 and 25 degrees Fahrenheit (3–14°C).
A discada (also known as a cowboy wok or a plow disc cooker, Spanish: disco) is a large disc cookware found in Mexican and Southwestern US cooking It is also the name for a mixed meat dish made with this cooking utensil.
Screw extrusion is used to compact biomass into loose, homogeneous briquettes that are substituted for coal in cofiring.
Auvergnate: Saint-Nectaire, Cantal and Fourme d'Ambert Italian Valdôtaine (French: fondue à la valdôtaine; Italian: fonduta alla valdostana) in Aosta Valley: Fontina, milk, and eggs.
Examples Dairy products produced by souring include: Clabber, Cheese, Crème fraîche, Cultured buttermilk, Curd, Filmjölk, Kefir, Paneer, Smetana, Soured milk, Sour cream, and Yogurt.
Stuffed provoleta (Spanish: provoleta rellena) is a provoleta stuffed with assorted fillings that could include ham, barbecue sausage or morcilla blood sausage, cheese, vegetables, peppers and onions.
Although many recipes require eggs to be at room temperature, it is easiest to separate eggs that are cold.
Basic and reverse spherification methods give much the same result: a sphere of liquid held by a thin gel membrane, texturally similar to roe.
When harvesting the juice, turn the heat and add more sugar than when seasoning, but the dosage should be controlled to prevent the taste from being too sweet; and always pay attention to the conditions in the pot.
In late 2005, the firm was delisted from the Nasdaq after a leveraged buy-out by Australian venture capital firm, Ironbridge Capital.
The increased weight of conventional pressure cookers makes them unsuitable for applications in which saving weight is a priority, such as camping.
Drawbacks to the blanching process can include leaching of water-soluble and heat-sensitive nutrients and the production of effluent.
During a certain time, it remains baking in this natural oven, and the common people consider it a great delicacy, (in which I differ from them).
Both operated separately and individually as Big Fat Daddy's and Brian's Big Fat Daddy's but problems ensued due to Brian's failing health and business disagreements.
Beer or root beer is added to create a broth for simmering the meats which also acts as a non stick agent.
Souring is similar to pickling or fermentation, but souring typically occurs in minutes or hours, while pickling and fermentation can take a much longer amount of time.
It is similar to evaporating and harvesting juice, but instead of adding starchy water to the pot, it is heated and braised directly, allowing the gelatin to dissolve into the sauce and become sticky enough to wrap the ingredients.
Construction Steamers are produced by removing the skin from the bamboo, soaking it in water, shaping it into a circle, and hammering it in with nails.
In the meantime, fondue continued to be promoted aggressively in Switzerland, with slogans like "La fondue crée la bonne humeur" 'fondue creates a good mood' and (1981, in Swiss German) "Fondue isch guet und git e gueti Luune" 'fondue is good and creates a good mood' – abbreviated as "figugegl".
Preparation Carne ranchera can be purchased from meat markets either prepared (preparada, i.e., already marinated) or not (no preparada), for marinating at home.
Pressure steaming is similar but is done at raised pressure inside a pressure cooker without submerging the food in the liquid.
Smaller versions exist, such as rotary corn roasters that can be placed on a table, and some corn roasters are homemade.
Preparation There are two main methods for creating such spheres, which differ based on the calcium content of the liquid product to be spherified.
Bougna often contains taro, yam, sweet potato, banana, and pieces of either chicken, fish, crab, prawns or lobster.
Second-generation cookers are somewhat safer, but can still be dangerous if proper precautions, like obeying fill limits, are not taken.
As for firewood (si'), the most typical trees are catzín (box kaatsim), kitinché (kitam che'), chaká (chakaj), jabín (ja'abin) or chukum, which are hard woods to generate a lasting combustion.
Common items to be julienned are carrots for carrots julienne, celery for céléris remoulade, potatoes for julienne fries, or cucumbers for naengmyeon.
Since the food is only partly submerged, it must be turned over partway through the cooking process.
Kotlovina has historically been prepared and served outdoors but is today a common dish served in local restaurants that serve Croatian cuisine.
Physics Because larger objects have a lower surface-area-to-volume ratio, they are more able to retain heat.
Display cooking is a notable trend in commercial foodservice, where open kitchens are becoming part of the dining experience, and watching a meal being prepared live-action has become entertainment.
Spherification is a culinary process that employs sodium alginate and either calcium chloride or calcium glucate lactate to shape a liquid into squishy spheres which visually and texturally resemble roe.
Definition and etymology In food preservation, malosol refers to a process in which ingredients are treated with a small amount of salt—below 5%, and often closer to 3%—sufficient to preserve freshness without imparting a strong briny flavor.
Some organizations that operate corn roasters at events, such as fairs, donate their proceeds to charities.
Notley Que BBQ led by Gary Notley Season 2 Season 2: Judges Myron Mixon—season one competitor and owner of Jack's Old South Art Smith—celebrity chef and author of Back to the Table and Kitchen Life Warren Sapp—Super Bowl champion and barbecue enthusiast Contestants Season 2: Preliminary Results (Ep.
Third-generation electric, with smart programming, which includes pre-set cooking times and settings based on heating intensity, temperature, pressure and duration.
Weekly winners faced off against each other in the second-season finale as they vied for $100,000 and the Kingsford Cup.
Steam blanching systems inject hot saturated steam (~100 °C) onto food as it passes through the blanching system on a conveyor belt.
The process is most notable for its use in the preparation of fried chicken in many commercial fried chicken restaurants.
Throughout history, the extensive production of charcoal has been a significant contributor to deforestation, particularly in regions like Central Europe.
The time taken for the center of food to reach the target temperature depends on the initial temperature, the thickness and shape of the food, and the temperature of the bath.
This acid can be added explicitly (e.g., vinegar, lemon juice, lime juice, etc.), or can be produced within the food itself by a microbe, such as Lactobacillus.
It is first attested in French in 1735, in Vincent La Chapelle's Cuisinier moderne, and in English in 1878.
Essential features Sealing the food in sturdy plastic bags retains juices and aroma that otherwise would be lost in the process.
Germans grill over charcoal or, increasingly, gas, and grilled meats include variations of the Bratwurst such as Thuringian sausage for example, as well as steaks (especially marinated pork steaks from the shoulder), Frikadellen (minced meat dumplings), Rostbrätel and poultry.
The zhenglong in its current form originated in Southern China during the Han dynasty, possibly around Guangdong.
Flatbreads from India (dosa, paratha, roti and chapati), the Middle East (pita), Africa (injera) and Jamaica (bammy) are traditionally cooked on flattop grills.
In the case of cooking that lasts for several hours, both dry and green wood (freshly cut) are added, so that the charcoal remains hot for longer.
Barbeque in Thailand are mostly found at restaurants inside shopping malls for example Bar-B-Q Plaza which is a mu kratha restaurant.
Meat carving is the process and skill of cutting portions of meat, such as roast and poultry, to obtain a maximum or satisfactory number of meat portions, using a carving knife or meat-slicing machine.
Disadvantages Although blanching is a thermal process, the times and temperatures are not sufficient to effectively destroy all microorganisms.
No points are awarded, and the winner is determined by who garnered the most laughs throughout the course of the game.
In some cases, the identical spelling of a word in two languages is coincidental; in other cases, it is because they descend from the same ancestor word.
The recipient of the challenge must then provide a valid reserve word which contains the word-stem in play.
In September 2025, themed puzzles for all 32 NFL teams were created to coincide with the start of the 2025 NFL season, and were available for the entire month.
Example games Two example games could be played as follows: In Example 1, it can be noted that the phrase "AT" does not end the game; this is because words only become valid once they are at least three letters long.
Mobile games like Letterpress, Words with Friends, and Word Connect have also brought word games to modern audiences.
Eraser blocks will fall and remove whatever letter that they land on (in the SNES version, the eraser is replaced with bombs and vials of acid).
At the end of a round, a selection of top-scoring valid Snaps is displayed, followed by the results of all players in each round.
In 1980 Universal Press Syndicate of Kansas City assumed syndication rights and continues to do so today.
Notable players Samuel Pepys recorded playing in his diary entry of Saturday 19 May 1660: "From thence to the Hague again playing at crambo in the waggon, Mr.
Gameplay The premise of the game is making words from random letters on a grid for points, and scoring as many points as possible.
The magazine organizes the SymmyS Awards, an annual palindrome competition named after a 1991 book by Hugo Brandt Corstius (writing as Battus) and adjudicated by a celebrity panel.
References External links The Fumblerules of Grammar by William Safire Fumblerules entry on the alt.usage.english FAQ Hacker writing style section of JARGON FILE, VERSION 4.3.3, 20 SEP 2002
A semantically equivalent form preserving the original word order is: "Buffalonian bison [whom other] Buffalonian bison bully [also] bully Buffalonian bison." Sentence construction The sentence is unpunctuated and uses three different readings of the word "buffalo".
Malapropism Replacing a word with a different word that sounds similar, either unintentionally or for comedic effect.
'Javanese (language)') is a type of French slang where the extra syllable ⟨av⟩ is infixed inside a word after every consonant that is followed by a vowel, in order to render it incomprehensible.
Merriam-Webster's Befudiom is a word game where teams are challenged to guess selected idioms by acting, shouting, drawing, or spelling them out.
A 1998 game show pilot episode hosted by Bill Rafferty that was not picked up for a full production season.
Unpaired words: Deliberate use of unusual or obsolete antonyms, such as "I was well-coiffed and sheveled", (back-formation from "disheveled").
It was first published by Winning Moves Games USA in 1996 and was republished in 2006 as 25 Words or Less: People, Places and Things Edition.
The social media discourse saw debate over gatekeeping, with some advocating for its being shared only in closed groups among African Americans whose ancestors were enslaved in the United States while others promoted public sharing of Tut and its rules among as many African Americans as possible.
By extension, the vertices can be identified with words instead of letters to form eodermdromic phrases or sentences.
A homograph is a word that is written the same as another word, but which (usually) has a different meaning.
An interlingual homograph is a word that occurs in more than one written language, but which has a different meaning or pronunciation in each language.
Since all the other children spoke Pig Latin, we were superior because Tut was hard to speak and even harder to understand.
Word length The minimum acceptable word length can be adjusted to a player's skill level (for example, in a game with adults and children playing together, the children may be permitted to form four-letter words while the adults are restricted to words of at least five or six letters).
An eodermdrome is a form of word play wherein a word (or phrase) is formed from a set of letters (or words) in such a way that it has a non-planar spelling net.
Masonry (secret society), which is in essence a peculiar use of the word masonry (wall building) – are omitted.
Using tiles unlocks other tiles adjacent to them, however tiles not used for a number of turns decay into unusable stone blocks.
Games are written by The Athletic's managing editor for news, Mark Cooper, who became the site's puzzle editor with the launch.
Objectives and rules The objective of the puzzle is to find words which can be made using a given group of letters.
"Buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo" is a sentence that is grammatically correct in English that is often presented as an example of how homonyms and homophones can be used to create complicated linguistic constructs through lexical ambiguity.
(اگه یگ بوسئ مئ دادی چه مئ شه؟) Aga yag bose me'dādi va āshegh (اگه یگ بوسئ مئ دادی وه عاشق) Va fardāye qiāmat kam name'sha.
Considering the novel a step towards literature comparable with the artistic impact of Dadaism and surrealism, Thaler surmised, "The verb is like a weed in a field of flowers.
Other examples include "honest politician", "affordable caviar" (1993), "happily married" and "Microsoft Works" (2000).
Past judges have included Will Shortz, MC Paul Barman, Ben Zimmer, David Allen Cress, "Weird Al" Yankovic, Demetri Martin, and John Flansburgh.
'dustbins' meaning 'children', as in 'dustbin lids'='kids'; 'Teds' being 'Ted Heath' and thus 'teeth'; and even 'Chitty Chitty' being 'Chitty Chitty Bang Bang', and thus 'rhyming slang'...).
A fumblerule is a rule of language or linguistic style, humorously written in such a way that it breaks this rule.
First published in 1991 by the English board game company Oxford Games Ltd., Ex Libris was devised and compiled by Leslie Scott (the creator of Jenga) and designed by Sara Finch.
Although the older version has been discontinued, some retailers refer to the newer one as "Boggle Reinvention" to avoid confusion.
The term fumblerules was coined in a list of such rules compiled by William Safire on Sunday, 4 November 1979, in his column "On Language" in The New York Times.
ngware becomes rengwa) See also Costermonger (British street vendors from whom back slang originates) Pig Latin References External links Victorian Web Article John Burkardt's list of back slang words at Florida State University
Origin The idea that one can construct a grammatically correct sentence consisting of nothing but repetitions of "buffalo" was independently discovered several times in the 20th century.
The number of points awarded for a correct answer is determined by rolling a traditional die numbered from one to six.
In some languages, it is not necessary to place a conjunction like and between the two antonyms; such compounds (not necessarily of antonyms) are known as dvandvas (a term taken from Sanskrit grammar).
A player with at least 2,500 points is considered vulnerable; at least 500 points must be scored in a turn, or 500 points are deducted from their score.
Gameplay The object of the game is to build words of three letters or more using the tiles that fall from the top of the playing area.
In addition to the two-letter dice with popular letter combinations, there is also a die containing three faces which are solid squares.
'when they are silent, they cry out'), "melancholy merriment" (Byron), "faith unfaithful", "falsely true" (Tennyson), "conventionally unconventional", "tortuous spontaneity" (Henry James) "delighted sorrow", "loyal treachery", and "scalding coolness" (Hemingway).
See also Argot Pig Latin Tutnese or Double Dutch, similar rules Ubbi dubbi Javanais Gibberish == References ==
Variants on the alternade include the rebade (a hybrid of a rebus and an alternade), and the subade.
In 1975, Selchow published Scrabble Scoring Anagrams, which featured tiles with point values like those in Scrabble.
Playing a round requires the use of a game currency called 'honey', which accrues slowly at a certain rate, limiting the number of games that can be played successively.
The other players are then required to write plausible first or last sentences for the book, handing their efforts over to the reader, who has meanwhile copied the correct line onto a similar piece of paper, which they shuffle amongst the 'fake' scripts.
Donc, ma nouvelle adresse dans ce train de nulle part : voiture 12, 3e compartiment dans le sens de la marche.
Its letter can be selected by the player (either by typing it in the PC version, or scrolling through letters with a button on the console versions).
Those letters, pronounced in French, sound like "Elle a chaud au cul", an idiom which translates to "she has a hot ass", or in Duchamp's words "there is fire down below".
A feature of the game that became a fad on Twitter was capturing screenshots of the bears incorporating words that had been entered by the player in random sentences.
In July 2020, Norwegian news site Dagens Næringsliv reported that the game had made Bertheussen a multimillionaire.
In 1938, he began work on a board game based on Lexiko, which he called Criss-Cross Words, which was eventually renamed Scrabble.
The magazine also covers closely related forms of wordplay, including calculator words and written charades.
If a player feels their opponent has played a bluff and has no reserve word in mind, they may lodge a challenge at any time before the next turn is played.
Gameplay The game is played by one player from each of the two teams drawing a card (one between the two of them) and looking at the five words on the card.
For example, in his Finnegans Wake Joyce's phrase "they were yung and easily freudened" clearly implies the more conventional "they were young and easily frightened"; however, the former also makes an apt pun on the names of two famous psychoanalysts, Jung and Freud.
Fairfax Books have also published two Target puzzle books titled Aiming up, which comprise 75 puzzles each.
It is told in the work Ujishūi Monogatari that the Japanese poet Ono no Takamura used this reading to escape death.
Baas-o-Beyt (Sistanian: بئث و بئت) is a special kind of rhyming game common among Sistanian people and is generally considered as a genre of Sistanian poetry (called Seytak) played by composing verses of Sistanian poems, along with some Sistanian dance and music.
Another way of describing interlingual homographs is to say that they are orthographically identical, since a language's orthography describes the rules for writing the language: spelling, diacritics, capitalization, hyphenation, word dividers, etc.
For instance, the term Charing Cross (a place in London), used to mean 'horse' since the mid-nineteenth century, does not work for a speaker without the lot–cloth split, common in London at that time but not nowadays.
The acrostic OTIA also occurs in Ovid, Metamorphoses 15.478–81, a passage describing the return of the peace-loving king Numa Pompilius to Rome.
John Pentland Mahaffy, Provost of Trinity College, Dublin, observed, "an Irish bull is always pregnant", i.e.
In the broader sense, it can refer to any technique when an author tries to hide his name or a reference to his identity in an encrypted manner (e.g.
Another way is to have a sudden death, tie-breaker round where whoever gets more points on the tiebreaker round wins.
Ex Libris: The Game of First Lines and Last Words is a party game of literary bluff related to fictionary.
Bushisms are unconventional statements, phrases, pronunciations, malapropisms, and semantic or linguistic errors made in the public speaking of George W.
On Mondays and Tuesdays the Polygon has a total of seven letters, and answer words must be at least three letters in length.
Etymology The term Baas-o-Beyt drives from Arabic Bahs and Beyt meaning debate and two line poetry, respectively.
The player who passed then flips the timer, and the other player has one minute to give clues to their team, to try to get them to guess each of the five words on the card, where each word in the giver's clues counts as one of the words bid.
The sentence is syntactically ambiguous; one possible parse (marking each "buffalo" with its part of speech as shown above) is as follows: Buffaloa buffalon Buffaloa buffalon buffalov buffalov Buffaloa buffalon.
It was used mainly by market sellers, such as butchers and greengrocers, for private conversations behind their customers' backs and to pass off lower-quality goods to less-observant customers.
Karl Marx (1818–1883) was a frequent dumb crambo player with his wife and daughters in their North London home.
"The decision of one man [Vladimir Putin], to launch a wholly unjustified and brutal invasion of Iraq.
See also Wise and Otherwise References External links Entry on the Canadian Intellectual Property Office's Web site BoardGameGeek entry
The interactive fiction game Ad Verbum, contains a series of rooms which are described and interacted with, in tautograms.
{and she answered} Can't you see my father {right around us}, you blind man?) The next one answers like this: Byāya bogzara mesle ame'sha (بیایه بگذره مثل أمئشه) Aga yag bose me'dādi che me'sha?
He carefully analyzed letter frequencies in newspapers and other printed works to determine the ideal letter distribution for the game.
See also Etymology False etymology Figure of speech List of forms of wordplay List of taxa named by anagrams Metaphor Phono-semantic matching Simile Pun References External links A categorized taxonomy of wordplay composed of record-holding words
In 1962, Serge Gainsbourg wrote and sang a song called La Javanaise, a pun playing on Javanese dancing and the javanais style of speaking.
In August 2025, the game had 40 million downloads, in large part due to success in the United States.
Espy Jeremiah Farrell Martin Gardner Mike Keith Douglas Hofstadter Lila Maria de Coninck See also Constrained writing List of forms of word play Oulipo Word Ways: The Journal of Recreational Linguistics References Bibliography Books Bergerson, Howard W.
Once a player reaches 2,500 points (2,000 points in some versions), all 13 dice are used; all words must now contain at least four letters.
References External links Official website Windows Phone Store app details page Archived 2014-05-14 at the Wayback Machine Windows Store app details page Wordament Facebook page
Today, the books (and subsequent films) are so well known in Sweden, and also in Norway, that the language is part of the culture of schoolchildren.
Unlike Scrabble, there is no national or international governing or rule-making body for Boggle competition and no official tournament regulations exist.
Released in July 2015, it draws on creative elements of one of their older releases, the 2010 game Panda Poet.
It is edited by Mark Saltveit, a Portland-based stand-up comedian who won the first-ever World Palindrome Championship.
Any word-stem a player creates must form part of a valid English word, without actually being a word itself.
Wonderword was created by Canadian author Jo Ouellet, and in 1994 her son David Ouellet appeared as co-author until her death in 1997.
History In 1931, Butts wrote a paper entitled "Study of Games." In his paper, he described three categories of games: board, number games using playing cards or dice, and letter games (or games that fell into more than one).
In Margin Call (2011), Will Emerson, played by London-born actor Paul Bettany, asks a friend on the telephone, "How's the trouble and strife?" ("wife").
"Ultrasonographic monitoring of artificially stimulated ejaculation in three rhinoceros species (Ceratotherium simum, Diceros bicornis, Rhinoceros unicornus)." Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine (1998): 386-393.
A former psychotherapist, in 2009, at the age of 44, she realized that she would never be a mother and set up a network of childless women aged 35 and over, named Gateway Women.
This technique is particularly useful in cases where infertility is caused by poor sperm production, thus solving most problems of male infertility.
Thomas Ray Lippert (1950–1999) was a convict and former business law professor at Southwest State College in Marshall, Minnesota.
According to Purdy's obituary in The Times, Purdy was the first person to identify and describe the formation of human blastocysts.
Indications ZIFT has been used in infertility situations where at least one of the fallopian tubes is normal and other treatments have failed; however, the need for two interventions and the fact that IVF results are equal or better (as of 2004), leaves few indications for this procedure.
History Bourn Hall Clinic was founded in 1980 by IVF pioneers Mr Patrick Steptoe, embryologist Jean Purdy and Professor Robert Edwards, who were responsible for the conception of Louise Brown, the world's first IVF or test-tube baby in 1977.
For that reason, it is necessary to check the amount being ovulated via ultrasound (checking the amount of follicles developing at the same time) and administering the desired amount of hormones.
Feskov (born 17 February 1959 in Alchevsk, Ukraine) is a Ukrainian physician, reproductive scientist, and ultrasonographer who specialises in reproductive technology and fertility treatment.
Matches can occur between half siblings (light yellow), sperm donors and their offspring (dark yellow), or egg donors and their offspring (also dark yellow).
Case studies for the productivity of these incentives on dairy farms have shown to have positive results.
Ganirelix acetate (or diacetate), sold under the brand names Orgalutran and Antagon among others, is an injectable competitive gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist (GnRH antagonist).
However, as this protocol to use more and more infertility drugs became the conventional IVF that we know today, many physicians began seeing the risks associated with conventional IVF.
It can be suitable for women who want to avoid ovarian stimulation or fertility drugs as a matter of choice, and for those for whom there may be no other choice, such as women at risk of hormone-related cancers.
Having a full bladder for the transabdominal portion of the exam is helpful because sound travels through fluid with less attenuation to better visualize the uterus and ovaries which lies posteriorly to the bladder.
Jean Marian Purdy (25 April 1945 – 16 March 1985) was a British nurse, embryologist and pioneer of fertility treatment.
Other notable physicians who have done related research include Yury Verlinsky, Lars Johanson, and Norbert Gleicher.
The reduction of testosterone in the male body normally results in an overall decrease in the production of viable sperm for these individuals, thereby making it hard for them to father children without fertility treatment.
It is estimated that approximately 25–30% of GIFT cycles result in pregnancy, with a third of those being twins or triplets, etc.
As men age there is a consistent decline in semen quality, and this decline appears to be due to DNA damage.
Baldev Chaddha is a fertility expert who runs a clinic and a sperm bank in Daryaganj, Delhi, that guarantees high-quality sperm for couples.
Honours and awards Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in 1982 Medicine, Companion of the Order of Australia (AC) in 1995 for his services to women's health and as a pioneer of in-vitro fertilisation.
With the use of a connector and adapter which had a syringe or rubber bulb attached it was air thawed or thawed in the cow.
The success of ganirelix in reproductive therapy has been shown to be comparable to that when using GnRH agonists.
I don’t think so." Simone was born in Japan as a self-described "mistake baby" and the only child to a failed polyamorous marriage.
She also apparently spent more time in at the laboratory in Oldham than Edwards did, recording the results of endocrine monitoring, organising laboratory equipment and supplies, and running various tests.
While medical literature recommends that extraction take place no later than 24 hours after death, motile sperm has been successfully obtained as late as 36 hours after death, generally regardless of the cause of death or method of extraction.
Whole ovarian culture The culture of intact ovaries supports the formation and development of primordial follicles.
Using her donor's cryobank number in the Donor Sibling Registry, she managed to find other siblings conceived from the same donor.
Bioethical issues Gamete intrafallopian transfer is not technically in vitro fertilisation because with GIFT, fertilisation takes place inside the body, not on a petri dish.
Additionally, it is more important that the aspirate is filtered when retrieving immature follicles, as the follicles are much smaller and harder to see in the fluid extracted.
Prevention and treatment of infertility caused by radiotherapy In modern medicine there are multiple options to limit the effect of cancer treatment on fertility.
Further research a few years later also confirmed the decline in sperm count and also seminal volume.
He "can read and write Punjabi too." Khurrana turned down three film projects to play the lead in Vicky Donor.
It is used to help select embryos with lower risk of defects and/or greater potential of implantation.
It was founded in September 2000 by a mother-and-son team, Wendy Kramer and Ryan Kramer of Nederland, Colorado.
Donor embryo transfer has given women a mechanism to become pregnant and give birth to a child that will contain their husband's genetic makeup.
Frozen bovine semen is a method of preserving bovine semen for future artificial insemination, even after the death of the donor.
The most common types of cancer diagnosed under the age of 40 years are breast cancer, melanoma, cervical cancer, non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and leukaemia.
Laparoscopy pioneer After the Second World War, he studied obstetrics and, in 1951 he started to work at the Oldham & District General Hospital.
In the majority opinion (joined by Justices Ralph Cappy and Ronald Castille), Justice Max Baer upheld the validity of the verbal contract between Joel McKiernan and Ivonne Ferguson and thus held that McKiernan had no obligation to pay child support.
Paul Devroey (co-)authored over 440 international peer reviewed articles, some of which have over 1000 citations, and three books.
Awards and honours In 1979, Steptoe received the Golden Plate Award of the American Academy of Achievement.
Since 1980, a number of requests for the procedure have been made, with around one third approved and performed.
There is consensus that women with only average risk for ovarian cancer should not be screened with this procedure for cancer.
This embryo-mother communication is finely regulated by numerous cellular pathways, including epigenetic mechanisms.
Furthermore, ovarian stimulation drugs are expensive and this means that the cost of each cycle is significantly less.
Using laparoscopy, he collected the ova from volunteering infertile women who saw his place as their last hope to achieve a pregnancy.
Some authors claim that it is safer, less expensive and avoids side-effects associated with suppression of hormones in a conventional IVF cycle.
The doctor can carry out the procedure with a single hand, which can lead to savings in time and cost.
He has been an affiliated lecturer at the University of Cambridge's Clinical School at Addenbrookes Hospital since 1992, and a visiting professor in gynaecology and fertility at the Capital Medical University in Beijing since 2001.
The doctor will monitor the growth of the ovarian follicles, and once they are mature, the woman will receive an injection containing human chorionic gonadotropins (HCG or hCG).
Together with André Van Steirteghem and other colleagues from the Center he developed the Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI) technique, in which a single sperm is injected into an egg-cell.
A follicle is placed at the bottom of each well and maintained in a 37°C, 5% CO2 incubator, being moved into a well containing fresh medium for up to 6 days.
In any case, ovarian stimulation (in the sense of stimulating the development of oocytes) is often used in conjunction with triggering oocyte release, such as for proper timing of artificial insemination.
See also Gynography Gynoroentgenology Obstetric ultrasonography Sonosalpingography Vaginal ultrasonography Air polymer-type A References External links Information about Sonography Fertility and Gynaecology Academy
These species have been selected to assess the adverse effects of drugs on reproductive function and fertility, due to ease of handling and small size.
Feskov is one of the most well-known reproductive technology and surrogacy specialists in Ukraine, and has over 100 academic publications.
The company launched in October 2016 when Varsavsky secured funding from Lee Equity Partners to purchase a majority stake in Reproductive Biology Associates, an IVF clinic in Atlanta, and My Egg Bank, the largest frozen donor egg bank in the U.S.
Sperm from a sperm bank will be frozen and quarantined for a period, and the donor will be tested before and after production of the sample to ensure that he does not carry a transmissible disease.
The duration of the 3 mg single dose is four days; if human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is not administered within four days, a daily 0.25 mg dose is started and continued until hCG is administered.
In 1980, Cooper Laboratories reorganized into three business groups: CooperVision, CooperCare and CooperBiomedical, with Cooper Medical Devices Corp.
FCSRCA also does not collect embryo data, including how many embryos are created with each IVF cycle, nor how many are discarded, frozen, or implanted.
Calves born around the same time tend to have a similar weight, which increases their value when being sold on the market.
The patient's fertilized eggs are placed on top of a layer of cells from the patient's own uterine lining, creating a more natural environment for embryo development.
Other chemicals Environmental mutagens that are associated with decreased semen quality include the following: Plutonium, widely spread from nuclear weapon tests, accumulates in the testes, where it disrupts zinc metabolism, in turn causing genetic damage.
While he was initially hesitant to do so, she convinced him by promising that she would not track him down for any child support afterwards.
The plaque missed out Jean Purdy who had been the person who chose Bourn Hall, was a co-founder of the clinic and an equal partner in developing IVF.
Born in Oxford, Steptoe was educated at The Grammar School, Witney (since 1968 the comprehensive Henry Box School) in Oxfordshire.
Routes The examination can be performed by transabdominal ultrasonography, generally with a full bladder which acts as an acoustic window to achieve better visualization of pelvis organs, or by transvaginal ultrasonography with a specifically designed vaginal transducer.
Currently, the fertility industry in the United States is largely self-regulated with voluntary guidelines established by American Society for Reproductive Medicine (ASRM).
Beischer Professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Carl Wood Professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology (1993) See also IVF Gynecology laparoscopy cyto Monash University Infertility == References ==
The decline in sperm count among men in South America, Asia, and Africa is less than men in Western countries, though the amount of decline in these regions is uncertain.
Career and research While a graduate student at the University of Iowa, Sherman also worked in the campus library and as a janitor in addition to his research assistant duties.
Late pre-antral follicles are identified as having a diameter of 180-200 μm and containing 2-3 layers of granulosa cells.
Feskov is currently based in Kharkiv, Ukraine as the founder and manager of Feskov Human Reproduction Group, one of Ukraine's largest and most notable surrogacy agencies.
Further trials are needed in order to determine whether time-lapse embryo imaging can impact on outcomes such as live-birth for couples undergoing IVF or ICSI.
Success rate As with most fertility procedures, success depends on the couple's age and the woman's egg quality.
National and regional usage In the Nordic countries, letrozole is practically the standard initial regimen used for ovulation induction, since no formulation of clomifene is registered for use there.
No hyperstimulation drugs With no hyperstimulation drugs, the treatment cycle relies on the spontaneous development of one follicle only and therefore the aspiration of only one egg from the follicle (it is possible however that the cycle can have more than one egg or no eggs).
Over his career, he has received three national and four internationals research awards, including the IVI award 2007.
The Collinses also employ corporal punishment in disciplining their children, which is based on Simone's personal observation of lions and tigers during a safari trip, despite clinical consensus that it impairs childhood development.
This is because the prenatal environment of the uterus, where the embryo will stay for 9 months, and also the nutrients that reach it, have great relevance in the gene expression.
Radiation therapy has been seen to also have a direct impact on the uterus, leading to changes to its vascular supply, volume and elasticity.
Intrauterine insemination success factors Intrauterine insemination (IUI) procedures have shown to be more successful and effective with certain factors taken into account.
Daily administration of the ovulation induction regimen, starting on day 3, 4, or 5, and it is usually taken for 5 days.
The partner who is acting as the gestational carrier will then prepare for embryo transfer and carry the resulting child to term.
The CIAQ also conducted research and experimentation to improve artificial insemination techniques, semen conditioning and set up programs for testing young bulls for possible inclusion in its sperm bank.
(Fertility protection in leukemia patients), information of the European Leukemia Information Center (ELIC) of European LeukemiaNet (in German language)
History The first transfer of an embryo from one human to another resulting in pregnancy was reported in July 1983 and subsequently led to the announcement of the first human birth 3 February 1984.
In terms of pregnancy rates, live births, or the risk of stillbirth or miscarriage there is a lack of evidence of sufficient quality to know if there is any difference between time-lapse embryo imaging and conventional embryo assessment in in-vitro fertilisation (IVF).
Women with a personal or family history of an oestrogen associated thrombus, or of severe cardiovascular disease, may also benefit from IVM.
Cetrorelix can be mixed with follitropin alpha without compromising their reported safety and efficacy.
It requires a high level of management and skills to be able to manage numerous calving operations at a synchronized time.
After fertilization in the laboratory, the resulting early embryos or zygotes are placed into the woman's fallopian tubes using a laparoscope.
Prelude Fertility is a network of fertility clinics in the United States that offer fertility services including in vitro fertilization (IVF), egg donation, genetic testing, and egg freezing.
Edwin Carlyle "Carl" Wood, , FRANZCOG (28 May 1929 – 23 September 2011) was a prominent Australian gynaecologist, best known for his pioneering work developing and commercialising the technique of in-vitro fertilisation (IVF).
It was discovered in 2021, upon the death of James Collins's wife Dorothy Dann Collins Torbert, that some $29 million had been embezzled from the family trust fund by Barbara Chalmers, the family bookkeeper.
Semen collection refers to the process of obtaining semen from human males or other animals with the use of various methods, for the purposes of artificial insemination, or medical study (usually in fertility clinics).
This remains a rational option for a number of reasons: firstly the procedure is cheaper than IVF and secondly, if successful, it permits as many future pregnancies as desired, whereas IVF has to be used for every future pregnancy.
An optimization for the cost and sleeping period of the Request PDUs must be done on the application layer.
The stack is complemented by an implementation of 6LoWPAN, RPL in non-storing mode, UDP and CoAP, enabling access to devices running the stack from the native IPv6 through open standards.
Radio amateurs without the EchoLink software or a computer connected to the Internet can take advantage of the EchoLink network if they are within radio range of a sysop mode EchoLink station.
After the 2004 tsunami, Radwin donated 1,000 wireless broadband units for the reconstruction of Thailand's communications network.
Each center provides public computers, printers, and Internet access, plus a trainer to manage the center and teach various computer literacy courses.
In 2010 it began to design and engineer pioneer technologies to implement interoperable and highly scalable IPv6/6LoWPAN network infrastructures for industrial or urban applications.
It also creates hardware for transportation applications such as metro systems, bus networks, ferries, airports, and vehicles such as patrol vehicles, manned and unmanned heavy machinery used in mines and ports.
Cisco announced in January 2013 that it would sell its home networking division and Linksys to Belkin, giving Belkin 30% of the home router market.
CBRP is shown to perform moderately well in large and high density mesh networks See also Wireless ad hoc networks Mesh networking List of Ad Hoc Routing Protocols == References ==
Wiliot produces battery-free printable sensor tags designed to collect and transmit data from products like groceries, apparel and pharmaceuticals from their sources to stores and homes.
With 4G deployment rising, it is critical to have the airwave space to support future innovation and to avoid the spectrum crunch.
When a digital camera takes a photo, the light entering its lens is the analog information, and the photo file is the digital representation of said light.
See also Wireless mesh network IEEE 802.11 Mesh networking Switched mesh Wi-Fi Wireless LAN 802.16 External links White Paper: Capacity of Wireless Mesh Networks Understanding single radio, dual radio and multi radio wireless mesh networks.
These sequences were initially developed for radar, telemetry, and digital speech encryption in the 1940s and 1950s.
MCA allows wireless clients to choose which access points (APs) to communicate with for access to the network, in contrast to single-channel architecture, which gives more control to the centralized network devices such as the wireless LAN controller.
In this regard, a BTS forms part of the base station subsystem (BSS) developments for system management.
The project was developed by the Open Technology Institute, and development included a $2 million grant from the United States Department of State in 2011 for use as a mobile ad hoc network (MANET), concomitant with the Arab Spring.
Up to 255 further slave devices can be inactive, or parked, which the master device can bring into active status at any time, but an active station must go into parked first.
External memory From an energy perspective, the most relevant kinds of memory are the on-chip memory of a microcontroller and Flash memory—off-chip RAM is rarely, if ever, used.
SCHC associates the benefits of the RoHC context, which provides high flexibility in the fields processing, and of the 6LoWPAN operations to avoid transiting fields that are known by the other side.
Companies For enterprise use, the following vendors produce IP-DECT systems: Aastra (DeTeWe) Ascom (company) Gigaset Mitel NEC Panasonic Spectralink 7000 series (Polycom, Kirk) Alcatel-Lucent Ericsson-LG See also CAT-iq Voice over WLAN == References ==
The company is known particularly for long range communications, interference rejection, industrial quality, and high reliability.
MegaFon viewed the hybrid orbital-ground network as an economically viable alternative to laying fiber optic cables to sparsely populated areas and as a universal transport network for all generations of cellular network technology.
TBRPF transmits only the differences between the previous network state and the current network state.
The current implementation of CCKM requires Cisco compatible hardware and either LEAP, EAP-FAST (CCXv3) or PEAP-GTC, PEAP-MSCHAP, EAP-TLS (CCXv4).
Technical measures to limit exposure include restricting the radio frequency power emitted by the station, elevating the antenna above ground level, changes to the antenna pattern, and barriers to foot or road traffic.
John Horrigan of the Pew Research Center commented that the high cost of broadband now is why more Americans are not already using it.
This allows the phone to have a voice connection and a data connection at the same time, rather than a single channel that has to be used for one or the other.
OpenWSN aims to build an open standard-based and open source implementation of a complete constrained network protocol stack for wireless sensor networks and Internet of Things.
See also Dynamic routing List of ad hoc routing protocols External links Hui Liu et al., An Adaptive Genetic Fuzzy Multi-path Routing Protocol for Wireless Ad Hoc Networks Runtong Zhang, A Fuzzy Routing Mechanism In Next-Generation Networks
OpenWSN is related to other projects including the following: RIOT OpenMote OpenWSN is available for Linux, Windows and OS X platforms.
MCA is the most commonly used network architecture, as it is the most intuitive way to solve the problem of co-channel interference (although it does not eliminate the problem).
As Tinynode was specialized in wireless vehicle detection systems, the two companies aimed at positioning as unique enabler of any kind of smart environment through compelling solutions for the Internet of Things.
It is usually used in the context of big data in which it is generated by many different sources at high speed.
The IoT Pixel includes an ARM Cortex-M0+ processor core, Bluetooth Low Energy connectivity, 1 kB of non-volatile memory, and antennas for Bluetooth and energy harvesting.
TIA-41 standards TIA-41 is a set of telecommunications standards that define signaling and intersystem procedures for cellular networks.
He is the inventor of Karn's Algorithm, a method for calculating the round trip time for IP packet retransmission.
This means that after a Bluetooth device has been added to the piconet, each device is assigned a specific time period to transmit and they do not collide or overlap with other units operating within the same piconet.
More people put up nodes of the wireless networks, more people share their Internet uplinks with others, more everybody gains.
Topology broadcast based on reverse-path forwarding (TBRPF) is a link-state routing protocol for wireless mesh networks.
This is a first generation mesh where the total available bandwidth of the radio channel is ‘shared’ between all the neighboring nodes in the mesh.
Wireless Toronto hotspots are created using Linksys WRT54G or Motorola WR850G wireless routers running OpenWrt and WifiDog.
Its solutions are ready for the Internet of things, and enable cities and companies to collect, transport, store and deliver any kind of data lying in industrial plants or urban objects, transforming information into actionable intelligence to feed business decisions.
Each symbol is represented by a cyclic shifted chirp over the bandwidth centered around the base frequency.
Visual sensor networks also provide some high-level services to the user so that the large amount of data can be distilled into information of interest using specific queries.
The name alluded to the 1,440 orbits completed by Earth's first artificial satellite, Sputnik-1 (PS-1).
Variants Standalone Standalone mobile broadband modems are designed to be connected directly to one computer.
The architecture separates service logic from switching functions, allowing more flexible service creation and deployment.
Acer Clear.fi can also automatically locate Acer smartphones and PCs, enabling users to share media.
Connection Oriented Push is used less frequently than Connectionless Push for several reasons including: Devices while registered to the network, may not have a data session (PDP Context in the GSM world) established.
The advancement of technology is intended to move us forward and catch up with other nations that have already implemented these technologies.
In February 2022, it was announced that PrendeTV, Blim TV, and the original Vix AVOD service acquired in 2021 would be merged into the AVOD tier of a relaunched Vix in March.
History Technology For All was formed in 1997 as a response to a perceived lack of digital inclusion for historically low-income areas.
Since the transceiver is the major source of power consumption in a radio node and long-distance transmission requires high power, in some cases multi-hop routing can be more energy efficient than single-hop routing.
The code development profiles for the project have not been updated since 2016, and the project's website has been offline since approximately September 2024.
The project was created at the University of California Berkeley and extended at the INRIA and at the Open University of Catalonia (UOC).
These wireless modems are typically in the form of a small USB based device or a small, portable mobile hotspot that acts as a WiFi access point (hotspot) to enable multiple devices to connect to the internet.
The most common RF power amplifiers are metal–oxide–semiconductor field-effect transistors (MOSFETs), particularly LDMOS (power MOSFET) RF amplifiers.
IETF compression standards In the early 2000s, the IETF produced the first wave of mature standards for compression and fragmentation: RoHC (Robust Header Compression) in 2001, and 6LoWPAN (IPv6 over Low-Power Wireless Personal Area Networks) in 2007.
EchoLink-compatible software for other operating systems Open source software packages that are largely compatible with EchoLink are available for Macintosh (EchoMac and EchoHam) and Linux (echoLinux or SvxLink/Qtel).
Ok Sik Yang; Seong Gon Choi; Jun Kyun Choi; Jung Soo Park; Hyoung Jun Kim; A handover framework for seamless service support between wired and wireless networks, Advanced Communication Technology, 2006.
The advantage is the circuit switched approach and therefore better specified quality of service for vocal communication than with Wireless LAN.
This ratio of used to skipped connection events is determined by the subrate factor parameter and in this example it is set to 5.
MDS was a subsidiary of Moseley Associates and was acquired, in January 2007, by GE Multilin which was a division of General Electric.
Acknowledgments and Ordering 1-bit header fields ARQN and SEQN are used to allow positive or negative acknowledgements to be made and to verify that the order of packets received is as it should be.
CBRP was originally designed in mid 1998 by the National University of Singapore and subsequently published as an Internet Draft in August 1998.
The term is used in the context of mobile telephony, wireless computer networking and other wireless communications and in land surveying.
It is one of largest Slovenian open source projects and has participated multiple times in Google Summer of Code.
The proliferation of wireless applications is on the rise and continues to empower users and communities.
When a gateway receives a data packet from a device, it forwards it to the central network server without processing it.
The functionality of both transmitter and receiver are combined into a single device known as a transceiver.
The technology is primarily used for applications where small amounts of data need to be transmitted infrequently from hard-to-reach locations, such as in smart agriculture, industrial monitoring, and asset tracking.
In 2011, they installed the first residential deployment of Super Wi-Fi, which uses longer wavelengths to penetrate typical wireless barriers.
A general purpose microprocessor generally has a higher power consumption than a microcontroller, making it an undesirable choice for a sensor node.
Data streaming technology can utilize network externalities, because it brings together supply and demand of large networks of creators and consumers.
In September 2003, Freifunk activists founded the non-profit association Förderverein Freie Netzwerke e.V.
Data from the sensors is fed into a Wiliot Cloud server, where algorithms help its customers make decisions through a software as a service subscription.
and unlike other EAP methods, the protocol security has been verified by formal modeling of the specification with ProVerif and MCRL2 tools.
A wide range of topics focusing on the 802.11 wireless LAN technology is covered in the coursework and exam, which is vendor neutral.
It is also responsible for managing the communication frequencies, data rate, and power for all end devices.
A shared mesh (also known as 'traditional' or 'best effort' mesh) is a wireless mesh network that uses a single radio to communicate via mesh backhaul links to all the neighboring nodes in the mesh.
Fuzzy routing is the application of fuzzy logic to routing protocols, particularly in the context of ad-hoc wireless networks and in networks supporting multiple quality of service classes.
A piconet consists of two or more devices occupying the same physical channel (synchronized to a common clock and hopping sequence).
The Alliance released a technical specification TS 10–1.0.0 to explain how to use SCHC as an adaptation layer to enable LoRaWAN end-devices to use IPv6-based stacks over LoRaWAN and expands its certification program to include SCHC over LoRaWAN® Enabling IPv6 Solutions.
The company also announced its Linksys Cloud Manager 2.0, which included a configurable captive portal.
The MAP profile can also be used for other uses that require the exchange of messages between two devices.
Radwin's wireless mobility solution is selected by Bangkok for Gold Line (a first completely automated, mass rapid transit (MRT) system in Bangkok).
Now the available bandwidth is shared between both the mesh links and client access, further reducing the end to end traffic available.
The framework that was established supports existing EAP types as well as future authentication methods.
Technology Like many other free community-driven networks, Freifunk uses mesh technology to bring up ad hoc networks by interconnecting multiple Wireless LANs.
Thus, it is better to completely shut down the transceiver rather than leave it in the idle mode when it is not transmitting or receiving.
Using CCKM, an access point configured to provide Wireless Domain Services (WDS) takes the place of the RADIUS server, and authenticates the client without perceptible delay in voice or other time-sensitive applications.
This has led to a change in which how and where news publishers are interacting with their audiences, and how they use social media services to deliver their service.
In surveying, it is a GPS receiver at a known position, while in wireless communications it is a transceiver connecting a number of other devices to one another and/or to a wider area.
The IoT Pixel tags have sensors for temperature, fill level, motion, location changes, humidity, and proximity.
Using the songs and artists already chosen by users, the application identifies new songs that are similar.
PPG Vendors PPG vendors include Nokia Siemens Networks, Ericsson, Gemini Mobile Technologies, Openwave, Acision, Huawei, Azetti, Alcatel,WIT Software, ZTE, and open source Kannel.
The positive and negative amplitudes of the pulses forming the Barker codes imply the use of biphase modulation or binary phase-shift keying; that is, the change of phase in the carrier wave is 180 degrees.
During 2013 the company unveiled two successful Smart City projects in Chiasso and Bellinzona, Switzerland.
In CBRP, nodes dynamically form clusters to maintain structural routing support and to minimize excessive discovery traffic typical for ad-hoc routing.
During the next week, Brent and WTI fell to their lowest levels since January after a pessimistic forecast for U.S.
In mid-January 2010, the blackouts were "suspended indefinitely", following increased water levels and the acquisition of several generators.
During this meeting, Putin publicly promised Fico that Russia's Gazprom would find alternative ways to deliver contracted gas to Slovakia after the Ukrainian transit ended.
Political reaction The Bulgarian energy minister Peter Dimitrov said customers were to blame as they refused to pay their bills.
A field containing 500 million barrels or more ultimately recoverable reserves is a giant field, while a super giant contains 5 billion barrels or more recoverable reserves.
At the time of the invasion, Iraq owed Kuwait $14 billion of outstanding debt that Kuwait had loaned it during the 1980–1988 Iran–Iraq War.
Players who ordered Frontlines: Fuel of War from GameStop or Best Buy were given a special code which gave access to one of two Challenge Maps.
At the time, Simmons was asked by a reporter if he had any second thoughts about the wager and replied, "God, no.
He added that an attack against Transnistria guaranteed a Russian invasion and "deprivation of the statehood" of Moldova.
Initially, this was a very difficult situation for Cubans to accept; many came home from studying abroad to find that there were no jobs in their fields.
Organic agriculture soon developed, supplanting the old industrialized form of agriculture Cubans had grown accustomed to.
According to a 2019 study, individuals who were between the ages of 15 and 18 during the 1979 oil crisis were substantially less likely to use cars once they were in their mid-30s.
Anti-globalists apply a similar argument, but tend to focus on exploitation of third world societies rather than the environment.
2011–2013 2011 Political turmoil in Egypt, Libya, Yemen, and Bahrain drove oil prices to $95/barrel in late February 2011.
See also International crisis National Front (Iran) Timeline of the Abadan Crisis British occupation of Bushehr Nissho Maru Incident == Notes ==
These schemes provide management and investors with the means to make quantitative and relative comparisons between assets, before underwriting the significant cost of exploring for, developing and extracting those accumulations.
Starting with the Iranian revolution, the price of crude oil rose to $39.50 per barrel ($248/m3) over the next 12 months (its all-time highest real price until March 3, 2008).
The Russian military buildup outside Ukraine and subsequent invasion threatened the energy supply from Russia to Europe.
However, on 15 December 2022, the Public Works Department (JKR) announced the demolition of the Rasau Bridge Toll building.
The explosions suspended gas supply to Georgia at a time when the weather was particularly cold, leading to allegations of deliberate energy blackmail carried out by the Russian government.
The graph shows actual gas production in blue compared to his predicted gas production for the United States in red, published in 1962.
decision to re-supply the Israeli military" during the Yom Kippur war, after the Soviet Union re-supplied Egypt, and Syria; it lasted until March 1974.
Some 350,000 people lived in Transnistria as of January 2025; over 90% had Moldovan citizenship as of December 2024.
There were a few times when parts of Moldova were in blackout due to Russian shelling of critical infrastructure of Ukraine.
The Obama Administration has now modernized the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) in order to allow a fair governing on the quality of our environment.
Also, the millions of source rock samples that have been analyzed for petroleum yield by the petroleum industry have confirmed the large quantities of petroleum found in sedimentary basins.
North Carolina governor Pat McCrory, Tennessee governor Bill Haslam and South Carolina governor Nikki Haley all declared states of emergency, allowing fuel tankers to work longer hours to maintain the availability of gasoline.
These declarations eliminated certain size and weight restrictions on vehicles carrying gasoline, and the hours during which they are allowed to deliver.
Aftermath Battle of Ideas Popular disillusionment in the economy inspired the Cuban government to revitalize the population's enthusiasm for socialism.
For the first week of July, oil rose 5 percent, with Brent finishing at $78.47, highest since May 1, and WTI at $73.86, highest since May 24.
Hubbert's theory is used to predict when a resource will reach its peak of production by studying past resource discovery and production trends.
European Union responses In response to these complaints, European Commission officials publicly assured that they would review the matter and facilitate a resolution, while also stating that there was no immediate threat to the EU's general oil supply security.
The Bạch Hổ oil field in Vietnam has been proposed as an example of abiogenic oil because it is 4,000 m of fractured basement granite, at a depth of 5,000 m.
This is what led to the rumors regarding the fuel shortage originated from which made the public panic Sapugaskanda Oil Refinery Shutdown - another issue faced in this crisis was the power loss which caused the Sapugaskanda Oil Refinery to be shut down for almost three days.
Every generating station trips from time to time due to minor defects and can usually be restarted when the defect has been remedied.
Performance-based methods Once production has commenced, production rates and pressure data allow a degree of prediction on reservoir performance, which was previously characterized by substituting analog data.
Krasnoselsky thanked von der Leyen the day of the resumption and Moldovan "specialists" and leaders two days later, and Moldovan news website Ziarul Național reported that some civilians in Transnistria took to the streets to celebrate the restoration of gas supplies.
The price of gas on June 17 was $3.67.5 a gallon, 25.1 cents lower than a month earlier but 96.8 cents above a year earlier.
Whilst flow was now at optimal rates, Colonial claimed it would be "several days" before processed fuel reached and replenished affected areas.
Many forecourts were rationing drivers to as little as £10 each, while others imposed a minimum spend of £25.
The government response was varied, and in Karakalpakstan, they met protesters and promised to rectify the situation, while the local government head of Hazarasp responded to a complaint by one woman by cutting off gas altogether to all the houses on her street.
The EGDP-01 platform was put in the field and the gases would then be carried by pipelines to the Brunei LNG plant, via South West Ampa gas field.
Joe Barton, R-Tex., the committee's chairman, answers that it is a low blow to use what ExxonMobil actually said against them.
This is a list of major hydroelectric power station failures due to damage to a hydroelectric power station or its connections.
The 2006 Russia–Georgia energy crisis describes an international incident triggered by two explosions on the Mozdok–Tbilisi natural gas pipeline in North Ossetia on January 22, 2006.
The Government said preparations were underway, the army tanker fleet was put on standby as petrol tanker drivers at 5 of the 7 firms voted on strike action.
In early October, Ukraine ceased its electricity exports to Moldova following the destruction of part of Ukraine's electricity system as a result of a mass bombing campaign of Ukrainian civilian and energy infrastructure by Russia.
Phase-out of fossil fuel vehicles Many countries and cities have introduced bans on the sales of new internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicles, requiring all new cars to be electric vehicles or otherwise powered by clean, non-emitting sources.
History 1970s Champion field was discovered in 1970 by Champion-1 which is drilled in its most northern part.
Slovakia, along with Hungary, voted against the regulation, expressing concerns about the impact on their energy security.
Effects Beginning November 5, rolling blackouts took place across Ecuador for two to six hours per day.
A serious failure in a proportionally large hydroelectric generating station or its associated transmission line will remove a large block of power from the grid that may lead to widespread disturbances.
However some power stations can be exceptionally large in respect to connected grid capacity so that any failure for these proportionally large stations can be more problematic than the failure of a typically sized station.
This expectation proved unrealistic, underscoring the urgent need for the government to develop its own comprehensive oil spill response plans.
Canada's conventional oil production peaked around the same time (though non-conventional production later helped revive Canadian production to some degree).
In the United Kingdom, the crash ended after the rent freeze was lifted on 19 December 1974, allowing a readjustment of property prices; over the following year, stock prices rose by 150%.
The next week oil rose over 8 percent, with Brent finishing at $86.39 and WTI at $79.72, as Russia announced production cuts.
Later, on November 11, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development approves its $250 million loan for the project.
Champion-1 Champion-7 (Main Complex Platform) Champion-11 Champion-41 Champion-37 Champion-38 Champion-39 Gallery == References ==
Other causes that contributed to the recession included the Vietnam War, which turned out costly for the United States and the fall of the Bretton Woods system.
These maps range in size and location from a small city block to a solar array over 4 square miles (10 km2) in size.
In addition, Iraq felt Kuwait was overproducing oil, lowering prices and hurting Iraqi oil profits in a time of financial stress.
The hearing's purpose was for Congress to learn about what the backup plans are in the electric utility industry in the case that the electric grid is damaged.
According to Nepali officials, the youths were trying to bring food and fertilizer into Nepal, and the shooting took place at Bhantabari, Sunsari District on the Nepalese side of the border.
After several years of legal wrangling, in May, 2005 an appeals court permitted the Energy Task Force's records to remain secret.
The blockade had long lasting effects on Nepali households use of petroleum fuels, with poorer households more often continuing to use dirtier fuels such as firewood, whereas richer household moved towards using cleaner energy sources.
Most of the world's largest oilfields are located in the Middle East, but there are also super giant (5 billion bbls) oilfields in Brazil, Mexico, Venezuela, Kazakhstan, and Russia.
After two weeks of declines, continuation of production cuts by Saudi Arabia and lower exports by Russia led to oil reaching its highest level in over six months.
Implemented solutions Many steps were taken by the Ministry of Petroleum Resources Development to overcome the problem until any fuel shipments arrived Purchasing from Spot Market - Fuel was purchased from the Spot Market to immediately recover from the shortage.
Whilst any electric grid is vulnerable to instability after the loss of a large generating source or transmission line, this can generally be dealt with without serious inconvenience to customers.
The project, when completed, is expected to produce 250 million barrels (40,000,000 m3) of crude oil per day, beginning in 2006, with total production over the life of the field estimated to be about 1 billion barrels (160,000,000 m3).
See also 2008 financial crisis Energy crisis References Focus News Agency:The Battle For Central heating September 25, 2008 Sofia Might Be Without Central Heating External links Official website of Toplofikacia Sofia Official website of Bulgargas
The battery room of a telephone exchange usually has arrays of lead–acid batteries for backup and also a socket for connecting a generator during extended periods of outage.
Several notable key note speakers have visited DUG conferences including Leon Panetta at Pittsburgh's in 2014, T.
On 16 February 2023, following the restructuring of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Regional Development during the establishment of the Recean Cabinet, the Ministry of Energy of Moldova was created, with Victor Parlicov as energy minister.
The latest peak was in 2001 when production reached 2,600 metric tons, then declined for several years.
By 20 September, more than 40 people had been killed in clashes between the protesters and the police.
helium in the Siljan Gravberg-1 well was depleted in 3He and not consistent with a mantle origin The Gravberg-1 well only produced 84 barrels (13.4 m3) of oil, which later was shown to derive from organic additives, lubricants and mud used in the drilling process.
Natural gas is used simply because it is the cheapest currently available source of hydrogen; were that to change, other sources, such as electrolysis powered by solar energy, could be used to provide the hydrogen for creating fertilizer.
Due to these suspicious coincidences, Georgia accused Russia of conducting deliberate acts of sabotage with the aim of forcing the nation into surrendering its pipelines to Gazprom – the Russian state-owned monopoly.
Department of Energy's Energy Information Administration (EIA) states that historic Canadian Tar Sand production rose from 200,000 barrels per day (32,000 m3/d) in 1980 to 1,100,000 barrels per day (170,000 m3/d) in 2004.
1980s-1990s Construction of the centralised field facilities at Champion-7 began in 1980 until 1983.
Since the 1940s, agriculture has dramatically increased its productivity, due largely to the use of chemical pesticides, fertilizers, and increased mechanisation.
Conversely, a system past the critical point will experience too many blackouts leading to system-wide upgrades moving it back below the critical point.
By midday in Europe, crude rose to $145.85 a barrel on the NYME while Brent crude futures rose to a trading record of $146.69 a barrel on the ICE Futures exchange.
After 1980, oil prices began a decline as other countries began to fill the production shortfalls from Iran and Iraq.
After the withdrawal of the British workers in the autumn of 1951, the Iranians felt confident that they could easily hire non-British technicians to run the industry and then quickly train their own nationals to replace them.
Russia is considered the most important supplier of the European Union in terms of natural gas, oil, and coal.
In the two years from 1972 to 1974, the American economy slowed from 7.2% real GDP growth to −2.1% contraction, while inflation (by CPI) jumped from 3.4% in 1972 to 12.3% in 1974.
King Hubbert's methodology falls down because it does not consider likely resource growth, application of new technology, basic commercial factors, or the impact of geopolitics on production.
Where a generating station is large compared to the connected grid capacity, any failure can cause extensive disruption within the network.
Backstop resources theory states that as a heavily used limited resource becomes expensive, alternative resources will become cheap by comparison, therefore making the alternatives economically viable options.
The drone reconnoiters enemy units, which are visible through walls, and then shows them on the player's HUD and map.
The increase in food production has allowed world population to grow dramatically over the last 50 years.
Attempts have also been made to standardize more generalized methodologies for the reporting of national or basin level oil and gas resource assessments.
Tierney is (as was Simon) an avowed Cornucopian, believing in the ingenuity of humankind to adapt and improvise.
Yves Cochet, the former Minister of Environment of France and author of Pétrole apocalypse, has been supportive.
military, 80–90% of Iraq's southern oilfield production is under coalition control, as well as all related export facilities, as of this date.
Historically, Transnistria had covered most of Moldova's electricity needs through the Cuciurgan power station, which functioned with Russian gas supplied to Transnistria for free.
Background The explosions took place with the backdrop of the 2006 Russia-Ukraine gas crisis that same month.
7:8,15-16,23-25) Unlike the other high priests, Christ does not need to offer sacrifices day after day, first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people.
A standard solution to this problem is found in Zermelo set theory, which does not allow the unrestricted formation of sets from arbitrary properties.
There is a safe place in view of all, but difficult of approach, where there is no old age nor death, no pain nor disease.
This verse is interpreted by Rabbi Even-Israel Steinsaltz to enjoin him to willingly surrender life and fortune whenever the cause of God demands it, while it at the same time urges him to make God beloved by all his creatures through deeds of kindness, as Abraham did (Sifre, Deut.
Such dualism does not represent absolute good and evil, but the black gods become evil when acting out of agreement with older and stronger white gods.
In the words of historians, it was an interpretive framework of occurring natural, political and social events at a time when the religious and the secular were not clearly divided.
By the dawn of the sixteenth century, the care of souls was to many priests and not a few bishops a lost or a never-acquired art, with the result that the laity were ready to throw off what was deemed to be a useless clerical yoke.
The sin-offering and guilt offering were offered for individual sins, while the Yom Kippur Temple service helped achieve atonement at a national level.
Starting with correspondences of the divine in matter, the theurgist eventually reaches the level where the soul's inner divinity unites with the One.
The biblical bases for a cosmic Christology is often found in Colossians, Ephesians, and the prologue to the gospel of John.
Nicholson, in his Philosophical Papers of 1864, attributes "the famous inquiries" to Epicurus, using words previously phrased by Hume.
Terminology Tinok shenishba is an abbreviation form of tinok shenishba bein hanochrim, which translates to "An infant captured [and consequently raised] among gentiles," according to Reform rabbi Solomon Freehof in a 1960 responsum for the Central Conference of American Rabbis.
In January 2008 Benedict cancelled a visit to La Sapienza University in Rome, following a protest letter signed by sixty-seven academics which said he condoned the 1633 trial and conviction of Galileo for heresy.
102b; Sifra, Emor, ix.), but so to conduct himself in every way as to prevent the name of God from being dishonored by non-Israelites.
Das angebliche Epikurfragment bei Laktanz, De ira dei 13,20–21, in: Vigiliae Christianae 42 (1988), pp.
The pairs of the characteristics and their potential contradictions they would create consist of the following: If a god knows everything and has unlimited power, then it has knowledge of all evil and has the power to put an end to it.
For a God to be perfect, he cannot rule solely by predestination, because then he would lack the good possessed by a God who led by persuasion.
Personal life and death In 2005, Bernstein married Steven Tenenbaum, and the couple moved to Amherst, Massachusetts.
History During the Middle Ages, there was not yet a separated and systematized science of pastoral theology.
"I don't know for certain but I think God is very improbable, and I live my life on the assumption that he is not there." - Implicit and explicit atheism • positive and negative atheism • agnostic atheism Strong atheist.
In his own mystical ascension, remniscient of Muhammad's Journey through the heavens, he describes the visions of paradise as nothing but another worldly distraction; the true goal of his quest is meeting God.
Things are what they are no matter what I think they should be." See also Charles Hartshorne References Charles Hartshorne: Dipolar Theism
Quotes "Existence is not an inherent quality of essence, but only a predicate or an accident of essence" "Absolute Majesty-Beauty, like sheer being-sheer possibility, forms the totality of wujud" == References ==
Adult life and impact Bernstein eschewed terms like "Jewish environmentalism" because she felt they implied Judaism was not inherently ecologically based.
She is stated to be a powerful cosmic aspect (vyaṣṭi) of Devi, and represents the guna (universal energy) named tamas, and is the personification of the universal power of transformation, the transcendent power of time.
It was published earlier in the United Kingdom as The Paradise Papers: The Suppression of Women's Rites.
Monotheism In Ukraine, there has been a debate as to whether the religion should be monotheistic or polytheistic.
While they are indeed sinners, he declares them unintentional participants in their lack of adherence to Jewish law and belief, similar to the case of a tinok shenishba.
In the Qur'an, walaya is expressed in the Sura al-Kahf's fable of the rich but immoral owner of two gardens and his poor but pious companion.
It was said Dioscorus had previously gathered 1000 monks, telling them to wait outside the church during the council and to come when he called them.
At its founding, the group agreed to convene again in November, 1990, during the annual meeting of the American Academy of Religion and Society of Biblical Literature, the primary academic guild for many of its original members, and on its own again the next year.
In his theology, Helios, the sun, was the ideal example of the perfection of the gods and light, a symbol of divine emanation.
The reason being that they wanted the Sacred Masculine to become the dominant power, and rule over women and Goddess energies.
After three annual conferences at Stanford, COV&R shifted to meeting at locations around the world and now rotates between Europe, North America, and other continents.
Huangdi is the model of those who merge their self with the self of the universal God, of the ascetics who reach enlightenment or immortality.
According to the Talmud, the wearing of the Priestly turban atoned for the sin of haughtiness on the part of the Children of Israel (B.
Similarly, The Guide for the Perplexed (directed at the spiritual elite) presents an ideal in which a person would "reject, despise, and reduce his desires as much as is in his power[...] He should only give way to them when absolutely necessary".
One who refuses to partake of the material world was even described as a sinner by Samuel of Nehardea in tractate Taanit (Taanit 11a).
Popularized by Richard Dawkins in The God Delusion, the spectrum of theistic probability is a way of categorizing one's belief regarding the probability of the existence of a deity.
7:11) The basis of the Aaronic priesthood was ancestry; the basis of the priesthood of Melchizedek is everlasting life.
See also Vitalism Biopolitics Biopower Body politic Christian bioethics Ecotheology References External links Biotheology: Theology, Ethics and the New Biotechnologies.
The cosmic Christ is a view of Christology which emphasises the extent of Jesus Christ's concern for the cosmos.
Eventually, in February 449, they acquitted Ibas once more, together with his fellow accused: Daniel, Bishop of Harran and John of Theodosianopolis.
While the conception of a supreme, happy and blessed god was the most popular during his time, Epicurus rejected such a notion, as he considered it too heavy a burden for a god to have to worry about all the problems in the world.
An example of the typical Sufistic exclamation can be seen from Rabia of Basra:"O Lord, if I worship You out of fear of hell, burn me in hell, andif I worship You in the hope of paradise, forbid it to me.
In his theory of atonement, Irenaeus speaks about how all of humanity was created good but tainted by sin, but that all of creation was "recapitulated" and restored under the new headship of Christ.
John Wesley taught outward holiness as an expression of "inward transformation" and theologians in the Wesleyan/Methodist tradition have noted that the observance of standards of dress and behaviour should follow the new birth as an act of obedience to God.
Liberal theism is the philosophical and religious belief in the existence of a deity without adhering to an established religion.
Kant's "transcendental" critique can be contrasted to Hegel's "immanent dialectics." Thomas Carlyle's idea of "Natural Supernaturalism" posited the immanence of the divine in nature, history and man.
This supreme polarity is also represented by the relation between Rod and Rozanica, literally the "Generatrix", the mother goddess who expresses herself as the three goddesses who interweave destiny (Rozanicy, also known as Sudenicy among South Slavs, where Rod is also known as Sud, "Judge").
Later scholars, such as Joseph Sittler, Matthew Fox, Richard Rohr and Jürgen Moltmann, would likewise speak about the need to reclaim a cosmic Christology to speak about Christ's concern for creation.
As this was imposed "from above" by God, the Midrash says that God revived their souls from expiring with the future "Dew of the Resurrection".
Wujud (which is described as ecstatic existentiality in this instance) is said to occur only after one goes beyond wajd.
The Baal Shem Tov and later Hasidic masters made deveikut the central principle in Jewish spirituality, teaching that the sincere divine soul essence of the artless Jew reflects the essential divine simplicity.
This annihilation implies eternal reunion, as well as existence in full positivity and glory." Relation to wajd Wajd can be translated to mean 'ecstasy'.
Plotinus urged contemplations for those who wished to perform theurgy, the goal of which was to reunite with the Divine (called henosis).
This double reference has given rise to differing views with regard to the relationship that exists between the two commandments, although typically "love thy God" is referred to as "the first and greatest commandment", with "love thy neighbor" being referred to as "the second great commandment".
See also Metaphysics § Science Fideism Religious epistemology Philosophical theology Philosophy of religion References External links Amesbury, Richard.
Hence the human sciences, such as history, psychology, sociology and philosophy, attempt to conform themselves to this canon of science." This limited view of scientific method excludes the question of God, making it appear an unscientific or pre-scientific question.
Its editorial policy encouraged contributions from more marginalized groups and it remained a non-refereed title as a way of making it accessible to a wide range of readers.
Judaism describes various means of receiving atonement for sin, that is, reconciliation with God and release from punishment.
Critique of dipolar theism Those rejecting dipolar theism argue that it fails to distinguish between what we think God is and what God actually is.
Christians who subscribe to liberal theism do not believe the Bible to be inerrant, either on scientific, theological, or moral topics.
Wujud entails the extinction of the servant." The Sufis believe that anyone who experiences wajd brings back some residual knowledge from the object of his finding (wujud).
External links Sorcerers of Dobu: The social anthropology of the Dobu Islanders of the Western Pacific.
Sometimes, the meaning of the word is left deliberately obscure among Rodnovers, allowing for a variety of different interpretations.
Areas of research include questions of the establishment and maintenance of order, of the relationship between spirit and emergence, and of the relationship between sin and natural selection.
The Talmud declares "Abstain from everything unseemly and from whatsoever is like unto it." According to Abba Arikha, the purpose of the kashrut laws is to purify Israel—to train the Jew in self-discipline.
In this sense, there is no difference between God causing it to rain (as a reward) and his splitting of the Red Sea, both are the result of Divine intervention: And from the great and well-known miracles [e.g.
He was also active in the Christian ecumenical movement, working with World Council of Churches and the National Council of Churches.
In the Medieval Kabbalah, new doctrines described the 10 Sephirot (divine emanations) through which the Infinite, unknowable divine essence reveals, emanates, and continuously creates existence.
He argued that the classical concept of Divine Providence was replaced by the modern concept of Nature (טבע) that appeared in the Middle Ages.
COV&R members are also involved in organizing more local gatherings, particularly through long-standing groups in The Netherlands, Austria, France, Spain, and Australia.
Rather than be pushed away, such individuals are to be drawn into the Jewish community and taught the proper way so they can become observant Jews.
Worm theology is Christian theological position emphasizing the depravity of humanity in comparison to God's power.
That Satan tempts man, contrarily to the Mu'tazila and Jahmiyya (the mention of the latter two branches only appears in Ibana).
Biotheology is the synthetic application of understanding of biology to the understanding of God, synthesizing modern biology and traditional religious doctrines.
It seems that the notion of wali was superior to nabi early on, but scholars such as Abū Bakr Ḵarrāz (d.
Membership includes scholars of theology, religious studies, literary studies, philosophy, psychology, and other academic fields as well as clergy and other practitioners.
Just because we think God should be a certain way to embody our idea of perfection does not mean God embodies those characteristics in reality.
He was also interested in the topics of aging, grace, religion and science, narrative in preaching, and biblical interpretation.
According to Yisrael Baal Shem Tov, the founder of Hasidism, divine providence governs every detail of Creation.
An individual does not have to have been "captured" as an infant to fall within the definition of a tinok shenishba but rather, even if the child were raised without religious guidance, it would be considered tinok shenishba.
For a society, it is the ability to produce and secure holiness in its members, who display a real, not merely nominal, holiness.
We have come to believe in God's love: in these words the Christian can express the fundamental decision of his life.
7:7-10) If the priesthood of Aaron were effective, God would not have called a new priest in a different order in Psalm 110.
Sorcerers of Dobu: The social anthropology of the Dobu Islanders of the Western Pacific (reprint ed.).
While using the Latin expression in Deo (in God), Cantor identifies absolute infinity with God (GA 175–176, 376, 378, 386, 399).
Women-Church: An Australian journal of feminist studies in religion was an Australian journal published by the Women-Church Collective.
It was intended to be an ecumenical council, and it is accepted by the miaphysite churches, who view it as a valid continuation of the First Council of Ephesus if not an ecumenical council in its own right.
Ekkaia is extremely cold; where its waters meet the waters of the ocean Belegaer on the northwest of Middle-earth, a chasm of ice is formed: the Helcaraxë.
Pastoral theology is the branch of practical theology concerned with the application of the study of religion in the context of regular church ministry.
Ashʿaris reconciled the doctrines of free will, justice, and divine omnipotence, with their own doctrine of kasb ("acquisition"), by which human beings "acquire" responsibility for their actions, although these "actions are willed and created by God".
Asian feminist theologians began to call to attention the diversity and wide range of lives and situations experienced by women across Asia.
For Joseph Glanvill rational fideism is the view that "Faith, and faith alone, is the basis for our belief in our reason.
LDS scriptures identify the divine Light with the mind of God, the source of all truth and conveyor of the characteristics of the divine nature through God's goodness.
All Indian religions assert it to be a state of perfect quietude, freedom, and highest happiness; liberation from attachment and worldly suffering; and the ending of samsara, the cycle of existence.
It may simply reflect the "seven rules (Middot) of Hillel", in this case the first one, called Ḳal wa-ḥomer (Hebrew: קל וחומר).
For example, the ultimate expression of the sephirah of Kindness (Chesed) is most fully revealed when it relates to our lowest, physical World.
This meaning is more common within Christian and other monotheist theology, in which the one God is considered to transcend his creation.
Driftwood could be used to make bows if it was straight grained and in reasonably good condition; these were reinforced with sinew cables.
Can be used by woodworkers, for example a drawer or box can be glued and skew-nailed with finer nails or panel pins.
When moisture comes into contact with wood, the water molecules penetrate the cell wall and become bound to cell wall components through hydrogen bonding.
The figure of a particular piece of wood is, in part, due to its grain and, in part, due to the cut, or to innate properties of the wood.
The Sororium Tigillum, which translates as the "sister's beam", was a wooden beam said to have been erected on the slope of the Oppian Hill in Ancient Rome by the father of Publius Horatius, one of the three brothers Horatii.
Previously common woods for building barns and other structures were redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) on the U.S.
Cope and stick construction is a frame and panel joinery technique often used in the making of doors, wainscoting, and other decorative features for cabinets, furniture, and homes.
Essentially, the nominal dimensions assume a larger volume than the actual board contains, which is especially relevant when estimating material needs or costs.
To ensure that logs drifted freely along the river, men called "log drivers" or "river pigs" were needed to guide the logs.
In autumn the foliage can develop rich yellow, orange or red tones, particularly in trees grown in continental or mountain climates.
Combined hydrolysis and fermentation Some species of bacteria have been found capable of direct conversion of a cellulose substrate into ethanol.
Publius Horatius was required to pass under the beam, as if under a yoke, following the decision of the people's assembly to not punish him for the murder of his sister.
These include the International Tropical Timber Agreement (1983), the Convention of International Trade on Endangered Species (1975) and the Global Environment Facility (1991).
American chestnut wood can be identified as pre- or post-blight by analysis of worm tracks in sawn timber.
Early photographs of the Pacific coast reveal greater amounts of driftwood on the beaches than is present today.
The Deering Banjo Company uses blackwood ("grenadilla") to construct the tone ring in its John Hartford-model banjo because it weighs less than brass or bronze tone rings, and that the wood "plays in" (improves in tone) with use.
Bamboo flooring is often considered a form of wood flooring, although it is made from bamboo rather than timber.
Despite the reduction in size due to drying and planing, nominal dimensions are still used when calculating board feet for surfaced softwood lumber.
Toenailing or skew-nailing is a viable, structurally sound method of the driving of a nail at a roughly 30° angle to fasten two pieces of wood together, typically with their grains perpendicular.
Brushed and oiled – Steel brushes are used in the direction of the grain which opens up the surface of the wood and removes splinters.
Hand whittled treenails retain rough facets, while those produced mechanically using a tine-former or parsed out of turned billets do not.
Name Steam donkeys acquired their name from their origin in sailing ships, where the "donkey" engine was typically a small secondary engine used to load and unload cargo and raise the larger sails with small crews, or to power pumps.
They spotted a curious piece of loose rock with a bit of wood embedded in it and took it home with them.
Canica is a medical design company associated with Lee Valley Tools which arose out of consultations between Leonard Lee and surgeon Michael Bell after Lee found that Bell was using Lee Valley tools in his plastic surgery practice.
In 2012, New Zealand ordered a trial batch of "EcoTrax" brand recycled composite ties from Axion for use on turnouts and bridges, and a further three-year order in 2015, but then Axion filed for bankruptcy in December 2015, though it continues to trade.
Holan, Jerri (1990), Norwegian Wood (First American ed.), New York: Rizzoli, ISBN 978-0-8478-0954-7.
Modern use includes gas heating, the traditional fire-heated method, an iron heated by electricity (electric cattle branding iron) or an iron super cooled by dry ice (freeze branding iron).
White-rot fungi have long since been staples of human diet and remain an important source of nutrition for people around the world.
Examples of wood items which are commonly stabilized include knife handles, pistol grips, straight razors, game calls and jewelry.
The wood is ground against a surface of ceramic, stone, or coral skeleton, and combined with water and oil to make the paste.
The paste is typical of Madagascar's Northwestern coastal region, particularly by Sakalava and Vezo women in the provinces of Nosy Be, Antsiranana, and Toliara—though it has spread throughout the island and can now be found adorning women's faces as far as the Central Highlands.
Similarly, the Latin Vulgate (5th century AD) rendered it as de lignis levigatis (lævigatis, in the spelling of the Clementine Vulgate), 'of timber planks'.
There are extensive rubber plantations with mature trees, especially in southeast Asia; the earlier practice was to burn the tree at the end of its latex-producing cycle.
They are generally 7–12cm long and up to 13–16cm across, dark to mid green and smooth above, with a grey green, persistently hairy underside that helps distinguish the subspecies from typical A.
Ancient and modern kuphar boats on the Tigris and Euphrates are also built of reeds, waterproofed with pitch.
Rubberwood is commonly advertised as an "environmentally friendly" wood, as it makes use of plantation trees that have already served a useful function.
A bead is a woodworking decorative treatment applied to various elements of wooden furniture, boxes and other items.
History CTE was established in January 2002 following the result of a feasibility study carried out by the Scottish Forest Industries Cluster: a partnership between Forest Industries Development Council (now part of ConFor) and Scottish Enterprise.
Membership Membership in the Guild does not necessarily reflect competency but an interest in construction, learning and/or teaching.
One of the most commonly used stabilizing methods utilizes a heat cured polymer known as methyl methacrylate (MMA).
The Exotic Tropic Timber Enterprises (ETTE) was formed by Fernando Robleda as a logging company in Liberia in February 1997.
Current and future applications White-rot fungi have historically been valued as food, but in recent years exploration of their enzymatic capabilities has revealed white-rot fungi's potential in depollution.
However, one can also use inverted fillets as form of picture frame on small, flat objects, as seen below: In this case, the card was glued to the lip of the inverted fillet (which is thus hidden behind the back of the card).
The first machine tools offered for sale (i.e., commercially available) were constructed by Matthew Murray in England around 1800.
Fossils of early hickory nuts show simpler, thinner shells than modern species, with the exception of pecans, suggesting that the trees gradually developed defenses to rodent seed predation.
A wide-face steam donkey (called that because the width of the drum is greater in proportion to that in later machines) has been operational at the Tillamook County Pioneer Museum in Tillamook, Oregon, since the early 1980s.
On the East Coast, industry pioneers began selling reclaimed wood in the early 1970s but the industry stayed mostly small until the 1990s as waste disposal increased and deconstruction became a more economical alternative to demolition.
Rubberwood is a light-colored medium-density tropical hardwood obtained from the Pará rubber tree (Hevea brasiliensis), usually from trees grown in rubber plantations.
A branding iron is used for branding, pressing a heated metal shape against an object or livestock with the intention of leaving an identifying mark.
Except for their shape and size (which is understandably small), fillets are constructed similarly to picture frames, usually from wood or polystyrene.
The hole is only drilled part way into the workpiece because it is only used to guide the beginning of the next drilling process.
A bead is also an important design element in wood turning, a ring-shape or convex curve incised into a piece by the use of a chisel or skew.
Wood stabilization is a number of processes which use pressure and/or vacuum to impregnate wood cellular structure with certain monomers, acrylics, phenolics or other resins to improve dimensional stability, biological durability, hardness, and other material properties.
Other hydroelectric plant turbine bearings, many of them still in service, were fabricated with lignum vitae and are too numerous to be listed here.
FSC is an example of how network governance can create change in industry and encourage organizations to improve the sustainability of industrial forestry practices.
It is the only centre of its kind within the United Kingdom, providing research, consultancy, information, education, and training related to timber in construction.
melanoxylon is the hardest known wood, requiring 2000 kg to force a ball bearing one square centimetre in cross-section into a sample.
The several different categories of engineered wood flooring include: All-timber-wood floors made from multiple layers of sawn wood.
As a result of this type of decay, the wood shrinks, shows a brown discoloration, and cracks into roughly cubical pieces, a phenomenon termed cubical fracture.
The wood is reported to be resistant, strong, and easily worked; it is used in the making of utensils and in construction and carpentry.
Sculptures were created on the Emeryville, California mudflat and marsh area of San Francisco Bay in the late 1960s.
The overall drive was controlled by the "walking boss" who moved from place to place to coordinate the various teams to keep logs moving past problem spots.
Steel ties can be installed onto the existing ballast, unlike concrete ties which require a full depth of new ballast.
Propagation is usually by seed, although grafting or budding onto rootstocks of related maples is also employed in cultivation.
A treenail, also trenail, trennel, or trunnel, is a wooden peg, pin, or dowel used to fasten pieces of wood together, especially in timber frames, covered bridges, wooden ship- and boat-building.
History Lee Valley Tools was founded in 1978, in Ottawa, Ontario, by Leonard Lee, a recipient of the Order of Canada.
57 cm or 22+1⁄2 in) such that there is no ballast between the ties; this wide tie increases lateral resistance and reduces ballast pressure.
The sheaves of blocks on sailing vessels were made of lignum vitae until the introduction of modern synthetics.
It is worn as a protective and decorative mask by women and girls in Madagascar, Comoros, and Mayotte.
They are valued in paleobotany because they retain original cells and tissues capable of being examined with the same techniques used with extant plants in dendrology.
The act of marking livestock with fire-heated marks to identify ownership begins in ancient times with the ancient Egyptians.
In cope and stick construction, the "stick" is the molded edge with a cut along the inside of the frame where it is to be joined to the panel.
The Centre for Timber Engineering (CTE) a research and education unit within the Forest Products Research Institute that is part of Edinburgh Napier University.
Bowtell is derived from the medieval term bottle; in architecture it refers to a round or corniced molding below the abacus in a Tuscan or Roman Doric capital; the word is a variant of boltel, which is probably the diminutive of bolt, the shaft of an arrow or javelin.
Another steam donkey is located on the Monarch Lake Loop in the Indian Peaks Wilderness near Grand Lake, Colorado on Arapaho Pass Trail #6.
In much of the literature on this timber the names of the trees that yield it are given as Chlorophora excelsa (syn.
Types of figure include: angel step bear scratches bird's eye blister burl curl ribbon curl dimple fiddleback flame wide flame ghost pin stripe quilted spalted tiger stripe == References ==
It is important to note that only very small, extremely flat objects can be framed using only an inverted fillet, as a fillet lacks the depth of a traditional picture frame, and due to its size, weight and construction, could not support a great amount of weight on its own.
Later suggestions for a dynamic equivalent of the word have included 'laminated wood' (to strengthen the Ark), or a now-lost type of tree, but there is no consensus.
The London Hammer (also known as the "London Artifact") is a hammer made of iron and wood that was found in London, Texas in 1936.
All organic materials are replaced with minerals while maintaining the original structure of the wood.
Green public procurement – governments such as the UK and the Netherlands have adopted green timber procurement policies, including recognition of FSC and PEFC endorsed programs.
Commonly used with screws in carpentry to quickly secure temporary framing or work aids such as a jig.
Other candidates followed Harrison's example, making the idea of a log cabin a recurring theme in U.S.
The wood also has seen widespread historical usage in mortars and pestles and for wood carvers' mallets.
With colonialism, many cattle branding traditions and techniques were spread via the Spanish Empire to South America and to countries of the British Empire including the Americas, Australasia & South Africa where distinct sets of traditions and techniques developed respectively.
Publications The Guild publishes a newsletter for members, a respected journal Timber Framing, and books on the specialized topics of traditional timber framing.
Alternatives to toenailing include the use of joist hangers, hurricane ties, and other engineered steel connectors designed to drive nails on a perpendicular to a wood surface.
After trimming they may be split and wedged with a small piece of oak on the large end to hold them tightly in place.
americana: genipic acid, genipinic acid, genipin (all three from the fruit) and geniposidic acid (leaves).
Used in place of end nailing when fastening locations are not easily accessible, like installing blocking between studs and joists.
Yoruba people believe that the tree possess an animating force/spirit (Olúwéré), and anybody who sees the 'Iroko-man' face to face becomes insane and speedily dies.
However, beads applied across the grain are usually cut into a separate piece, which is then fixed in position.
African blackwood is often cited as one of the most expensive woods in the world, along with sandalwood, pink ivory, agarwood and ebony.
National and regional floras record it from countries including Italy, France, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia and Slovenia.
These systems allow high vibration frequencies (up to 2 kHz) for small magnitude (about a few micrometers); they are particularly suitable for drilling small holes.
Cultural beliefs The tree is feared in some cultures where it originates and hence is shunned or revered with offerings.
Identity The Greek Septuagint (3rd–1st centuries BC) translates the phrase as ἐκ ξύλων τετραγώνων (ek xúlōn tetragṓnōn), 'out of squared timber', translating gofer as 'squared'.
It is a power-driven metal cutting machine which assists in managing the needed relative motion between cutting tool and the job that changes the size and shape of the job material.
weekly ethanol margins rise to above break even, Fri Feb 13, 2009 4:01pm EST wired.com, One Molecule Could Cure Our Addiction to Oil, 09.24.07 == Further reading ==
Rio de Janeiro's mayor-elect Eduardo Paes has ruled out building the racetrack in the Deodoro neighborhood, in the Camboatá forest, due to political agreements; he will evaluate another location for the racetrack's construction.
Anoeta Sports Complex (Spanish: Ciudad deportiva Anoeta; Basque: Anoetako kirolgunea) is a sports area located at the south of the city of Donostia (San Sebastián), Basque Country of Spain.
Estadio Los Manantiales is a stadium in the town of Alhaurín de la Torre, Málaga, Spain, owned and operated by Alhaurín de la Torre CF.
On 12 January 1930, Swiss Adolf Badrutt jumped 75 meters (246 ft) and set the only official world record on this hill.
Although generally oval in shape, there is a wide variety within this: perfect circles, elongated ovals, rounded rectangles, or irregular shapes with little or no symmetry – but they will have smooth boundaries without sharp corners, almost without exception.
Construction MUGAs are placed into the ground around a sports surface area including natural grass, artificial sports surfaces, sports tiles, tarmac or concrete.
Jack Espey was an American sports executive who served as general manager of the Washington Redskins, Miami Seahawks, and Baltimore Colts.
Its placement near the Pacific Ocean exposed players and fans to chilly temperatures, fog, dew, and particularly wind, all of which grew worse at night.
Gripe Sports Center (Croatian: Športski centar Gripe) is a sports complex located in the Gripe city district of Split, Croatia.
The grounds manager is responsible for the management of staff, money, materials and equipment utilized in maintaining and enhancing a landscaped site including turf, trees, woody ornamentals and flowers, outdoor structure and related facilities.
Even further to this, some professional wrestling matches will stipulate a time limit, within which a wrestler must win if they wish to avoid a time-limit draw.
The Laval University Sports and Physical Education Complex, Pavillon de l'éducation physique et des sports de l'Université Laval PEPS is a sports complex located in Quebec City, Quebec, on the Université Laval campus.
PGMS published guides Grounds Maintenance Estimating Guideline Grounds Maintenance Management Guideline Grounds Management Forms & Job Description Guide Other Key facts About PGMS It is the only membership organization for institutional grounds managers.
Hewitt arranged for the nets to be used in a local game between the Montreal Victorias and the Montreal Shamrocks, after taking inspiration from fellow journalist Francis Nelson, to resolve disputed goals.
These items are allowed to remain on the backside of the mound at the discretion of the umpire, thus reducing the probability that they will affect a live play.
In professional wrestling, the variations are much more numerous and so the announcer may have to explain significantly more to the audience.
When World War II created a lack of playing opportunities, Mulligan worked for the railroad full time, rising to the position of assistant yardmaster.
The grandstand is in essence like a single section of a stadium, but differs from a stadium in that it does not wrap all or most of the way around.
Management In 1962, Toledo surrendered its IHL franchise and Mulligan was appointed commissioner of the league.
Shockwave in August 2002, an event co-promoted by PRIDE and K-1 at the National Stadium, was attended by 91,107 spectators.
See also List of cricket grounds by capacity List of cricket grounds in Australia List of Men's Cricket Grounds in England and Wales List of One Day International cricket grounds List of Test cricket grounds List of Twenty20 International cricket grounds == References ==
History The sports enclave is being constructed in Motera, which is a neighborhood in the northwestern part of Ahmedabad.
If the kick at goal misses and goes dead, play is restarted with a drop out (at the 22-metre line in union and 20 metres in league).
Many other political dignitaries were present at the event including the home minister of India, Amit Shah, and sports minister of India, Kiren Rijiju.
In addition, there must be 1.00 m between courts, both lengthwise and widthwise, resulting in a total of 65.00 m in length (3.00 m between the four courts and 2.00 m at the edges) and 26.00 m in width.
SPICE Convention Centre Opened in 2017, the SPICE Convention Centre is an underground convention centre containing an event space of 78,959 m2 (849,910 sq ft), the largest of all convention centres in Penang.
List of notable ring announcers Fighting Bob Alexander (Boxing, MMA, Kickboxing) Charly Arnolt (UFC) - On April 27, 2024, she became the first female ring announcer in UFC history, temporarily replacing Joe Martínez, who was reportedly ill.
In 1989, the Colorado General Assembly created the Denver Metropolitan Major League Baseball Stadium District, which was empowered to levy a tax in seven metropolitan Denver counties for the construction of Coors Field.
Ultimately, a crowd announced by the University of Michigan as 113,411, at that time the largest in the stadium's history (including football), saw the homestanding Wolverines win 5–0.
Wrigley Field in Chicago, Illinois Shibe Park, also known as Connie Mack Stadium, in Philadelphia Crosley Field in Cincinnati Comiskey Park and New Comiskey Park in Chicago.
Impacts Positive results from United Kingdom local authorities can provide good evidence that placements of anti-vandal MUGAs can reduce anti-social behaviour and increase fitness within early-teen age groups in both cities and parish localities.
Early life and family William Abraham Hewitt was born on May 15, 1875, in Cobourg, Ontario, the son of a clothing merchant.
All of the games on this list were held in stadiums designed for field sports such as association football, gridiron football, and baseball.
Thus it is an important source of information for planners and practitioners from all areas of sports facility construction (municipalities, architects and engineers, universities, trade associations and industrial companies).
Its aims are the exchange of information and ideas regarding testing sports surfaces such as sports hall floors, synthetic surfaces of athletic tracks and artificial turf surfaces.
Ducey was an ice hockey reporter for the Hollywood News during that winter, then a sportswriter for the Edmonton Bulletin in 1931 and 1932.
Two wooden crosspieces, known as the bails, sit in grooves atop the stumps, linking each to its neighbour.
On March 19, 1925, Rickard was convicted of violating a federal law that prevented the interstate transportation of fight films.
Excluding the hotel, the GBI-certified Setia SPICE complex had a gross development value of RM400 million.
References External links Balatonring non-official homepage (in Hungarian, archived) German Blog about Balatonring
Some leisure centres, particularly in Australia, are called aquatic centres, if their main facilities are pools for swimming, diving, and other aquatic sports.
The São Paulo State Government confirmed a five-year partnership, and in December the contract was signed with the São Paulo City Hall and Liberty Media; the event would be called the São Paulo Grand Prix.
In December 2006, Steinar Johannessen stated that he and the federation had given up having a ski jumping hill at Rødkleiva.
After his father's death in 1939, Bolles began a partnership with New Zealand immigrant architect Joseph Francis (or Francisco) Ward (1898–1970) to form Ward & Bolles.
It includes a number of facilities, with the Anoeta Stadium standing out as its main sports ground, home to the Spanish football premier league's team Real Sociedad.
Elfstrom Stadium in Geneva, Illinois Roger Dean Stadium in Jupiter, Florida Sam Lynn Ballpark in Bakersfield, California Stanley Coveleski Regional Stadium in South Bend, Indiana Senator Thomas J.
Basketball, football, hockey, netball, and volleyball, are usually provided with appropriate floor line markings for each sport, which are lined in different coloured paints.
In the FIS snowboard world cup rules, the recommended width for 22 ft (6.7 m) walls is 64 ft (20 m).
Background The word derives from Latin harena, a particularly fine-grained sand that covered the floor of ancient arenas such as the Colosseum in Rome, Italy, to absorb blood.
The Narendra Modi Stadium which is the world's largest stadium, and the largest cricket stadium, will also be located within the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Sports Enclave.
Energy and electric power systems Energy supply in the high mountains remains an open question due to difficulties in connecting to the grid.
In the Constructors' Championship, two teams were mathematically in contention: Ferrari, and Lotus-Climax.
Gallery See also Amphitheatre Architectural structure Field house Ice hockey arena List of nonbuilding structure types List of indoor arenas by capacity List of stadiums by capacity References External links Media related to Indoor arenas at Wikimedia Commons
Rødkleiva was regarded as more favorable because of the ease of transport, high population concentration, and that an all-new hill would allow for better television pictures.
This was the first (and only) pole position for Wolfgang von Trips, and the first for a German driver.
As standing on the terraces was cheaper and provided a greater degree of freedom to move and congregate with fellow supporters, over the decades of the 20th century they became the most popular areas for younger working class men and teenage boys to watch the games.
PEPS opened in 1970 and includes an outdoor stadium (Telus Stadium), an indoor stadium, two indoor swimming pools (aquatic centre), basketball and tennis courts, a fitness centre, and two hockey arenas.
Overview For winter sports, the term superpipe is used to describe a halfpipe built of snow which has walls 22 ft (6.7 m) high from the flat bottom on both sides.
A Chapel-en-le-Frith MUGA, built in 2010 following community fundraising, was removed in October 2025 following ongoing noise complaints from some nearby residents, but lamented by other site users.
This was also the last Formula One race ever to be held on the full 10 kilometres (6.2 mi) Monza circuit, with the two banked corners and the straight between the bankings included.
The figures generally represent the licensed capacity of the venue, which is usually far higher than the number of seats in the stands.
Dunn booked a wide variety of events for the Garden, including an Aimee Semple McPherson revival, a welterweight championship bout between Young Jack Thompson and Lou Brouillard, New England's first rodeo event, and a Reinald Werrenrath concert.
However, only 147 ski jumping hills at 95 venues in 87 localities are homologated for international competitions.
Other features of a superpipe are that the width of the pipe is greater than the height of the walls, and the walls extend to near vertical.
but this work was never carried out, in its place it was built the National Sports Village: VIDENA in 2019.
Last modernization took place from August 2012 to end of 2013 because of the preparations for the 2015 FIS Nordic World Ski Championships.
The field hosted Noordwijk's 3-2 win over Sparta Rotterdam in the 2018–19 KNVB Cup first round, with an attendance of 5,900.
Lombardi wrote the song with Benjamin Klasmer and Espey added a strain from Maryland, My Maryland near the end.
Structure Two night clubs are incorporated into the center, as well as numerous shops, coffeehouses, and restaurants.
The ISSS organizes regular Technical Meetings with experts from the industry to discuss issues of common interest.
Spanish investment group Sedesa would have been the constructor at a cost of €.80 million and seating for 110,000 to 140,000 would have been provided.
However, poor weather (it rained during six of the Seahawks seven home games and the home opener was postponed due to a hurricane) and an uncompetitive team led the Seahawks to draw about 7,000 fans per game.
The SPICE Convention Centre is recognised as the first hybrid solar-powered meeting venue in the world, equipped with a roof adorned by 654 light-emitting diodes (LEDs) and daylighting features.
In the 1957 season, the Eskimos' roster included four USC Trojans alumni including future Major League player Ron Fairly.
Facing scrapping, the current disposal method for these discarded lead-acid batteries is to transport them down the mountain, otherwise there is no way to recycle them.
The long straightaway had allowed for one-turn 400 metres or 440 yard competitions; three-turn 800 metres or 880 yard competitions; straight 200 metres or 220 yard sprint or low hurdles competitions.
As the full circuit has never been used for a race, the only representation of the complete circuit is in the video game F1 2020, which retains the original 2020 season calendar; that rendition was featured as the second round of the 2020 Formula One Esports Series.
Bolles had included a boomerang-shaped concrete wind baffle in the original design, reportedly reduced in construction.
It is a street circuit designed to host the Vietnamese Grand Prix, a planned round of the Formula One World Championship.
For example, there are track and field stadiums, football stadiums, baseball stadiums, swimming pools, Olympic Parks, and indoor arenas.
Such examples of these would be terms such as "the arena of war", "the arena of love" or "the political arena".
Bernina-Val-Roseg-Schanze was a K75 ski jumping hill located in Val Roseg valley at Pontresina, Switzerland, opened in 1925.
The main arena seats 2,000 and was home to the reborn Quebec Remparts of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League from 1997 to 1999 when they moved back to their traditional home at the Colisée Pepsi.
The sports complex has been used as the home venues of the KK Split basketball team, and the MNK Split Tommy futsal team.
Sports journalist Frank Deford wrote that Rickard "first recognized the potential of the star system." Rickard also operated saloons, hotels, and casinos, all named Northern and located in Alaska, Nevada, and Canada.
For running tracks, many cinder surfaces have been replaced by all-weather synthetic surfaces, which provide greater durability and more consistent results, and are less stressful on runners.
From 2009 to 2012, it was home to the Quebec Kebs basketball franchise in the National Basketball League of Canada.
Naming rights are a form of advertising or memorialization where a corporation, person, or other entity purchases the right to name a facility, object, location, program, or event (most often sports venues), typically for an agreed time.
The 25th IAKS Congress for the Design, Construction, Modernization and Management of Sports and Leisure Facilities is taking place in Cologne/Germany from 7 to 10 November 2016.
The key feature of an arena is that the event space is the lowest point, allowing maximum visibility.
Early baseball games were often staged at fairgrounds, and the term "grandstand" came along when standalone baseball parks began to be built.
Attendance in the 30,000 range was once quite common for major international matches held outdoors in the 1940s and 50s in Moscow's Lenin Stadium.
A section of the facility is reserved for MLSE, another is for community use and the basketball courts are shared between MLSE and community use.
Guinness World Records, using a count of ticketed fans who actually entered the stadium instead of UM's figure of tickets sold, announced a final figure of 104,173.
The public (and some media outlets) continued to call it Candlestick Park, as it was known for over three decades.
A cinder track is a type of race track, generally purposed for track and field or horse racing, whose surface is composed of cinders.
With the closing of Midtstubakken, Oslo's normal hill, in the late 1980s, Rødkleiva was again launched as a jumping hill.
For the clinching Game 6 of the Finals, further space was designated to expand capacity to 65,000 fans; even then, crowds were turned back before halftime.
A primary reason for the sports enclave to be built, is to host major sporting events in India in the future, such as the 2030 Commonwealth Games.
A major expansion from 2010 to 2012 added an indoor Olympic size swimming pool, a 3,000-seat gymnasium, a covered soccer stadium, and other facilities.
The only jewelry was her large circular spiral-wrapped earrings of 24-carat gold, which along with the blouse indicated she was of higher class.
The British Alpine Hannibal Expedition was an experimental archeology event that took place in 1959.
Brophy argues that the Calendar Circle correlation with Orion's belt occurred between 6400 BC and 4900 BC, matching radio-carbon dates of some campfires in the area.
John Richard Steffy (May 1, 1924 Lancaster, Pennsylvania – November 29, 2007 Bryan, Texas) was an American nautical archaeologist.
White Sands trackway and peopling of North America The earliest compelling evidence for human habitation of the Americas comes from the Clovis complex, between 11,050 and 10,800 14C yr B.P.
Though many exceptions exist in most instances even the oldest dump-bottles are not as old as privy bottles can be.
For example, on the basis of genomic analysis, it has been found that 4000–5000 years ago a small band from the Indian sub-continent traveled to northern Australia and contributed to the genome of people living in the north.
Aunn Komano, introduced in the 16th installment, Hidden Star in Four Seasons, has her ears designed in the shape of magatama.
Location The building in which the bulla was found had been an administrative or royal building that the Babylonians destroyed when they conquered Jerusalem in 586 BCE.
See also References Further reading External links Museum of Stone Tools – Interactive 3D models of stone tool artifacts
If more than one tin is needed, they are arranged in offset and overlapping positions so the complete profile can be rebuilt, typically off-site in laboratory conditions.
Industrial nature is the regeneration of vegetation on industrial sites; the invasion of abandoned or disused industrial sites by colonising species; or new plantings on abandoned, disused or remediated industrial sites.
Archaeologist Ralf Schwarz suggests the structures at the site allowed coordinating an easily judged lunar calendar with the more demanding measurements of a solar calendar through calendar calculations.
Excavations at the site, a collaborative effort by the Israel Antiquities Authority and Hebrew University had unearthed some of the earliest artifacts ever found in Jerusalem dating as far back as the 12th and 11th centuries BCE.
The École itself was closed for a year, but was then re-opened by the new Pope Benedict XV and Lagrange was allowed to return to Jerusalem continue its work.
This method allows the identification of different crystalline phases within the material, which are the different stages in the process of the material while reaching a solid state.
Diving With a Purpose (DWP) is an American non-profit organization aimed at locating and documenting shipwrecks, predominantly those related to the Atlantic slave trade.
It was found in an archaeological excavation together with 33 other seals, figurines and ceramics, in an ancient refuse dump adjacent to the Temple Mount in Jerusalem by Israeli archaeologist Eilat Mazar.
We have quantitative data concerning past earthquakes only from the beginning of the 20th century (as the seismograph was invented only at the end of the 19th century), but humanity has had to deal with earthquakes throughout its existence.
There may also have been a correlation between star wars and solar eclipses; some star wars at Tikal seem to have taken place shortly after eclipses, in one case in July 743 only one day after a solar eclipse.
Most of the teachers of the École Biblique are Dominican friars, and all members of the Dominican priory are involved in the work of the École.
Since 2004, the World Monuments Fund has been working to conserve the temple in partnership with APSARA.
Magatama appear on all sorts of implements of the present-day temple, including amulets, roof tiles, and lanterns.
The obverse side has a polished mirror and the reverse has relief representations of legendary Chinese shén (神 "spirit; god"), xiān (仙 "transcendent; immortal"), and legendary creatures.
It chronicles tributary relations between Queen Himiko of Wa and the Wei court, and records that in 239, Emperor Cao Rui sent presents to Himiko, including "one hundred bronze mirrors".
Astronomical objects Hatotkeur (Spine of the Sky) – Milky Way Constellations: See also Cultural astronomy References External links San Diego Museum of Man Archived 2016-10-10 at the Wayback Machine
At the other extreme are the biblical maximalists who take the Bible at, or almost entirely at, face value.
References External links Wessex Archaeology Waterloo Uncovered The Guardian: Why I love Phil Harding Lectures by Phil Harding for Waterloo Uncovered Project Interview with Phil Harding during Salisbury 2020:Digital Big Weekend Salisbury Sites Blog and Salisbury Uncovered film
Articles and chapters References External links Personal Homepage Sasson's digital publication archive (DiscoverArchive) Vanderbilt Divinity School biography Archived 2010-05-23 at the Wayback Machine
This method of manufacture is believed to have been used to make some of the earliest stone tools ever found, some of which date from over 2 million years ago.
Such analyses reveal information about seismic events that was not historically recorded before the advent of seismometers in the late 19th century.
In 1843, at Corselitze on Falster in Denmark, a bog body unusually buried with ornaments (seven glass beads and a bronze pin) was unearthed and subsequently given a Christian burial.
Some researchers, including Christopher Ehret, have suggested a Nilo-Saharan linguistic affinity for the Nabta people.
In May 2020 the SfS project won the European Union Prize for Cultural Heritage of the Europa Nostra in the category research.
These include alignments of stones that may have indicated the rising of certain stars and a "calendar circle" that indicates the approximate direction of summer solstice sunrise.
"The proper choice of proxies for relevant strontium isotope baselines used for provenance and mobility studies in glaciated terranes – Important messages from Denmark".
The minerals in the material The research method which was based upon the application of mineralogical-petrographic analytical methods to archaeological material findings, mainly pottery, began its first steps in the first half of the twentieth century.
According to University of Chicago scholar Paul Wheatley, it is "an astronomical calendar in stone." Following Angkor's rediscovery by the outside world in the mid-19th century, decades passed before archeologists grasped Phnom Bakheng's historical significance.
The text is similar to, but different from, the Nebuchadnezzar cylinder C34, also known as the Middle Hill cylinder.
Other archaeological evidence, such as repairs, abandonment of an archaeological site or architectural changes, can help in identifying ancient earthquakes.
Likewise with the level above current sea surface of the lowest grooved outcrops on the island, that shows them to be no older than AD 1000 judging from post-glacial shoreline displacement.
The third segment contains Nebuchadnezzar's prayer to Marduk asking that Marduk might continue to extend his rule over the lands.
Virtually all modern scholars agree that the First Temple existed on the Temple Mount by the time of the Babylonian siege, but there is disagreement among contemporary scholars as to when it was built and who built it.
The "Men in a square" rupestric painting located at El Diablito area of El Vallecito depicted a square that aligns with sunlight on the Fall equinox.
He was commissioned into the British Army as a second lieutenant in the Grenadier Guards on 20 May 1899, and was promoted to lieutenant on 29 January 1900.
Elements rarely present on shallower shipwreck sites are beautifully preserved 200 m below the surface.
This corresponds to the transitional phase between the Neolithic Linear Pottery and Stroke-ornamented ware cultures.
See also Archaeology of the Arabian Peninsula Classical archaeology Middle Persian literature References Citations Sources Farahani, Alan (2014).
A recent counterproposal posits that the trackways were, in fact, created by the Clovis culture and the pre-existing proposed dates of first habitation should not be moved.
There is evidence that Clermont-Ganneau's theory and the LXX rendering of Zechariah 14:5 are correct.
Relative chronology See also Prehistoric Egypt List of archaeoastronomical sites by country Bir Kiseiba Notes External links Article in Scientific American Article in Nature Ancient Astronomy in Africa Megalithic Astronomy at the Ceremonial Center of Nabta Playa
It has been suggested that on one picture stone, part of the Late Iron Age decoration is carved into the bottom of a groove, meaning that this groove must be older than the picture.
What Archaeology Can Tell Us about the Reality of Ancient Israel is a 2001 book by biblical scholar and archaeologist William G.
Using their original measurements, complemented by satellite imagery and GPS measurements by Brophy and Rosen, they confirmed possible alignments with Sirius, Arcturus, Alpha Centauri, and the Belt of Orion.
The difficulty in establishing a date of arrival earlier than 50,000 years has been compounded by the widespread use of radiocarbon dating and the supposed "radiocarbon barrier" which establishes 40,000 years as a limit to which carbon-14 dates can be easily and reliably extracted.
Thus research in archaeological sites is needed to try to identify damage and destruction from ancient earthquakes.
Written in the paleo-Hebrew alphabet, it is part of a larger group of artifacts known as Canaanite and Aramaic seal inscriptions.
His published works in non-fiction reference books and photography have contributed to the field of underwater archaeology and the study of shipwreck exploration.
One hundred people excrete about 62 kg of phosphate annually, with about the same amount from their rubbish.
French Orientalist and archaeologist Charles Simon Clermont-Ganneau, who identified the site of the ancient Canaanite city of Gezer and preserved the Mesha Stele inscription, claimed that Schwarz was referring to al-Eizariya, the traditional Bethany of New Testament times.
Kenan Chair in Religious Studies where he remained until joining the faculty of Vanderbilt University in 1999.
Some scholars believe they are the original mirrors that Emperor Cao Rui presented to Queen Himiko, but others disagree.
He has been a member of the Institute of Field Archaeologists since 1985, and in 2006 was elected a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries of London.
Harman,German "On Behalf of Form." In Elements of Architecture: Assembling Archaeology, Atmosphere and the Performance of Building Spaces, edited by Mikkel Bille and Tim Flohr Sørensen, 30–46.
The shape of the internal chambers can vary from that of a rounded hut with conical or triangular ceiling.
Methodology Isolation Before the isotopes can be separated and a ratio can be determined, the desired component of the tissue must be isolated.
References External links The Stanford University course Hannibal by Patrick Hunt - Episode 7 features John Hoyte narrating the story in 2007.
(1993) studied fulgurite distributions along a north–south cross section in the south central Saharan Desert (Niger).
Another example can be found at the Deutsches Technikmuseum German Museum of Technology (Berlin), at the former locomotive workshops and goods yard (Anhalter Güterbahnhof) of Berlin-Anhalt Railway Company.
He worked initially for the Southampton City Council Archaeology Unit, combining this with five seasons of excavations (1972–1976) run by the British Museum at the Neolithic flint mines of Grimes Graves, Norfolk.
Paleolightning refers to the remnants of ancient lightning activity studied in fields such as historical geology, geoarchaeology, and fulminology.
Most of the documents which were made in the beginning of the second millennium BC were made of clay.
New Guinea and the Aru Islands have also been the focus of archaeological investigations by Australian researchers.
Eilat Mazar, was dated to the reign of Judean king Hezekiah between 716 and 686 BCE and bears an inscription in Paleo-Hebrew script: "Belonging to Hezekiah [son of] Ahaz king of Judah," and a two-winged sun, with wings turned downward, flanked by two ankh symbols symbolizing life.
Hoyte had an interest in both history and mountain climbing, and spent the summer of 1956 with friends hiking the Alps and comparing possible routes to the ancient descriptions.
The main pyramid El Castillo (the Temple of Kukulkan) displays the appearance of a snake "crawling" down the pyramid at the spring equinox (Unproven).
Israel Finkelstein and Neil Asher Silberman argue that the first Jewish temple in Jerusalem was not built until the end of the 7th century BCE, around three hundred years after Solomon.
Epigraphia 3D is a scientific project that consists in 3D models of ancient (mainly Roman) inscriptions.
Records of such finds go back as far as the 17th century, and in 1640 a bog body was discovered at Schalkholz Fen in Holstein, Germany.
The group has been involved with the discovery or documentation of numerous shipwrecks, including the São José Paquete Africa and the Clotilda.
With the spread of Chinese bronze casting technology, shinjūkyō were also produced in Japan and the Lelang Commandery and Daifang Commandery in the Korean peninsula.
The DFG funded edition of texts from Haft Tepe project is using MSII filtered renderings of tablets in the so-called fat-cross arrangement of side views.
His work encompassed a variety of shipwrecks, including Spanish galleons, pirate ships, Great Lakes freighters, modern luxury liners, Civil War blockade runners, and submarines.
Holtom stated that noro priestesses (Okinawan: nūru) of the Ryukyu Kingdom wore magatama necklaces early in the 20th century for ceremonial purposes, but provides no other details.
The annotations are made available together with the renderings with metadata as CSV and a knowledge graph (RDF).
Their teeth also indicate their age at death and what type of food they ate throughout their lifetime.
During the summer of 1975, Ballard participated in a joint French-American expedition called Phere searching for hydrothermal vents over the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, but the expedition did not find any active vents.
In parallel it was applied within the Austrian Corpus Vasorum Antiquorum of the Austrian Academy of Sciences for documentation of red-figure pottery.
Archaeologists and state officials have rebuilt the wooden palisade of the circle using 1,675 oak poles with a height of 2.5 meters.
The term “knap”(1500s) was originally onomatopoeic and meant “strike with a sharp sound” (with the k- pronounced) and later shifted to mean “to shape or work by sharp strikes”.
As of 2017 carbon-14 dating showed that she had died between 1382 and 1129 BCE during the Nordic Bronze Age; examination also revealed that she was around 18–19 years old at the time of death, and that she had been buried in the summertime.
Some authors have argued that the number of pin holes around the rim of the disc (approximately 38 to 40) has an astronomical significance.
Such reports continued into the 18th century: for instance, a body was reportedly found on the Danish island of Fyn in 1773, whilst the Kibbelgaarn body was discovered in the Netherlands in 1791.
Gallery See also Angkor Architecture of Cambodia List of archaeoastronomical sites by country Notes References Coedès, George (1968).
Lee Spence, (Sullivan's Island, SC : Shipwreck Press Inc., 1991) OCLC: 39977318 Shipwrecks: "the magazine" edited by E.
It was discovered that these neolithic murals are arguably the oldest known examples of egg tempera murals.
Sasanian archaeology is a branch of archaeology that focuses on the excavation and study of artifacts and material culture of the Sasanian Empire.
The many out of place bottles sometimes discovered in clusters near the top or bottom of a dipped out vault are referred to by diggers as “kick-backs”, or “throw-ins”, and were left intentionally by the workers who cleaned out the privy.
Certain late 1st-millennium picture stones on Gotland carry grooves that have been made after the relief of the stones was carved, which show the grooves to be late.
Built mostly between 3400 and 2700 BC, they date to the late Neolithic, Chalcolithic and early Bronze Age, including the Bell Beaker period.
