The first Shia theocracy in the 20th century was established in Iran following the Iranian Revolution in 1979, which led to the fall of the Shah of Iran.
He ordered the Iranian delegation to the UN to negotiate issues pending before the Security Council directly with the Soviet delegation.
The National Cartography Center of Iran (NCCC, Persian: سازمان نقشه برداری کشور) is the main organization for cartography in Iran.
He also announced plans to provide 14,000 houses to households with two disabled members through the foundation’s programs.
While their efforts went unanswered by both Iranian and international authorities and organizations, they searched for new ways to produce awareness of Iran's human rights violations and redefined legal boundaries to further the cause of justice.
Formation The establishment of the Imperial Inspectorate Organization was shaped by the context and factors primarily associated with the events and aftermath of the 1953 Iranian coup d'état.
The group itself also took part in insurgent activities, and is alleged to be involved in the killing of six British Royal Military Policemen in June 2003 by a mob in Majar al-Kabir, Maysan Governorate.
The Expediency Council is only meant to act on behalf of the legislative branch, although in reality it intercedes as a mediator between all bureaucratic branches, including the executive.
Yahya Ale Eshaq (Persian: یحیی آل‌اسحاق; born June 6, 1949 in Qom, origin from Zanjan) is an Iranian politician who served as minister of commerce in the cabinet of Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani from 1993 to 1997.
The Islamic Republican Party (IRP) which together with its Khomeinist allies had seized power and ousted all opponents, held an uncontested and single-party presidential election in October 1981 and got its candidate Ali Khamenei elected.
Abu'l-Fath al-Fadl ibn Ja'far ibn al-Furat (died 938), held several posts in the fiscal ministries of land revenue, vizier for a few months in 932 and in 937.
UAE has disputed Iran's sovereignty over Abu Musa, an island in the Persian Gulf that was agreed in a 1971 memorandum of understanding to be jointly administered with Iran for civil matters in the southern part of the island (called Jazirat-Abu-Musa in Arabic and Jazireh-ye-Abu-Musa in Persian).
The National Front was led by Majlis Member, Mohammed Mossadegh, whose leading ally in Parliament was the Assembly Speaker, Ayatollah Kashani.
After the revolution, it was dissolved in mid-1985 and the Youth and Adolescents Organization was formed.
He received his PhD from Imam Sadiq University in 2004 and now is a professor of communications at this university.
He involved in the discussions of a potential World Oil Bank involving Russia and Venezuela, and agreed on a cooperation protocol with the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
This card is intended to reduce the need for the more valuable Iranian identity booklet, which is issued at birth.
Sousan Keshavarz, Mohammad Aliabadi, and Fatemeh Ajorlou were not approved by Parliament for the Ministries of Education, Energy, and Welfare and Social Security respectively.
They find that the annual middle-class size would have been approximately 11 percentage points larger, on average, without the post-2012 sanctions.
The second attack took place on 6 December 2024, when another group of Australian arsonists firebombed the Adass Israel Synagogue in Melbourne, injuring one congregation member and dealing approximately A$45 million of property damage.
Key organizations of member states Member states are represented at the OPCW by their Permanent Representative.
September 2025 Visa Policy Update In September 2025, the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs revised its August 2025 visa policy, clarifying that the new restrictions apply only to citizens of European countries, Australia, New Zealand, the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada.
That same year, Iran hosted the historic Ramsar Convention on Wetlands of International Importance, positioning the DOE as a pioneer in international environmental governance in the Global South.
Most international sanctions on Iran were lifted in 2016, following the implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action nuclear deal.
The incident sparked tensions with Iran; the Iranian government denounced Erdoğan's remarks as an act of challenging Iran's sovereignty, and a number of Iranian citizens protested at Turkish diplomatic missions in their country.
4 In view of Article (15) of the Act on the Organization and Support of the Production and Supply of Housing, approved on May 14, 2008, a 12 percent tax shall be applied to the transactional value of the undeveloped lands with residential use.
He was president of Torr International, a nanotechnology company headquartered in New Windsor, New York.
I believe part of the blame lies with the satellite dish issue at Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting.
A survey may be carried out by a flag State, or by a Classification Society who have been authorised by a flag State.
Chitgar was presented amongst many others, such as Iran's former prime minister Shapour Bakhtiar who had also been assassinated during his French exile .
He returned to Iran in 2005, recanting his statements, then migrated to the United Arab Emirates in 2011.
After great public outcry and journalistic investigation in Iran and publicity internationally, prosecutors announced in mid-1999 that one Saeed Emami had led "rogue elements" in Iran's intelligence ministry in the killings, but that Emami was now dead, having committed suicide in prison.
With an average wait time of 2 minutes and 5 seconds, the hotline directly answered 17,866 calls while automatically processing an additional 12,224 through its IVR system.
They sought to resist Western intervention and regime change efforts in the country, which they believe, if successful, would challenge their own influence in the region and potentially lead to regime change in Iran.
Under its charter, EDBI acts as the administrative arm of the Government of Iran to contribute to the national economy, through promoting non-oil export of goods and other technical and engineering services of Iranian origin and also to enhance economic cooperation with other countries.
In June 2004, the Supreme Court substituted a charge of "insulting religious values" for the blasphemy charge, and imposed a jail term of three years among other penalties.
This includes: implementing commercial strategies and regulations, promoting exports, development programs, import and export regulations, pricing of domestic commodities, domestic and international trade fairs and exhibitions.
The goal was to quell regional uprisings and modernize the Persian army, but as a result of pressure from Russia and the United Kingdom, Sweden decided to call back most of their officers during World War I.
The Shia Crescent is the notionally crescent-shaped region of the West Asia where the majority population is Shia or where there is a strong Shia minority in the population.
Iran agreed covertly to issue the loan and also invited selected Sri Lankan officers to train in Iran for the war.
Six of Irsan's children who were still minors were put in the custody of child protective services (CPS).
The organization was governed by a five-member High Council composed of experts selected by the Minister of Health, Treatment and Medical Education.
Hasanvand acknowledged to be a member of Ministry of Intelligence and National Security (Iran) during his first election campaign.
In 1943, Radio Tehran added another section to the number of its previous sections, and its program was increased by three hours in the mornings.
After election of Hassan Rouhani as President, Management and Planning Organization was restored in November 2014 and Mohammad Bagher Nobakht was appointed as its head.
Meanwhile, conservative Iranian politicians have criticized him for publicizing his inability to solve the improve condition for Iranian citizens.
During a February 2025 meeting between Khamenei and the IRGC, commanders pressured Khamenei to rescind his ban on nuclear weapons.
Qajar dynasty Naser al-Din Shah Mozaffar ad-Din Shah Ahmad Shah Pahlavi dynasty Reza Shah Mohammad Reza Shah See also List of international trips made by presidents of Iran Foreign relations of Iran References == External links ==
The United States dismissed announced a "draft accord" among permanent Security Council members for additional sanctions on Iran, designed to pressure it to end its nuclear enrichment program.
1968 – 8 August 1998) was an Iranian reporter, working for IRNA, as the news agency's head of office in Mazar-i-Sharif, Afghanistan.
Armenian names Armenian compound personal names often contain the element "šah," meaning "king" in Middle Persian and New Persian.
The government provided transgender persons financial assistance in the form of grants of up to 45 million rials $1,240 and loans up to 55 million rials $1,500 to undergo gender reassignment surgery.
The mechanism thus neutralized the potential veto power of Russia or China (or, conversely, the U.S., UK or France) if Iran were in material breach.
After the Iranian Revolution of 1979, which formed the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Majles was succeeded by the Islamic Consultative Assembly, and the Senate of Iran was abolished, making it once again a unicameral legislature.
As prior deputy managing director of the Foundation for Freedom, Growth and Development of Iran (BARAN Foundation, outlawed in 2011), he was arrested in December 2009 following the Ashura protests and held in Solitary confinement in Evin Prison.
During final years of the 1970s he served as Foreign-Affairs Adviser to prime ministers Amir Abbas Hoveyda, Jamshid Amouzegar and Jafar Sharif-Emami.
Hassan Yousefi Eshkevari, a religious scholar and journalist with Neshat and Iran-é-Farda, was imprisoned upon his return in August and tried before a Special Court for the Clergy beginning in October.
History Tasnim was founded on 30 June 2012 by Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) commander Hamidreza Moghaddamfar, board chairman Jafar Darouneh, and CEO Majid Qolizadeh Zahmatkesh.
Though the Free Palestine Movement's activity is mostly concentrated in Damascus, the organization is known to have committed forces to fronts in other regions of Syria as well.
Iranians who have served in the running or overseeing of Setad include Mohammad Javad Iravani, who took over as head of Setad in 1997, and Mohammad Mokhber, who became the CEO in 2007.
Ḥasan-ʿAli Ḥekmat, "Moḵtaṣar-i dar šarḥ-e zendegi-e ostād ʿAli-Aṣḡar-e Ḥekmat", unpublished pamphlet, Tehran, 1981.
Shah Abbas therefore opened negotiations with the Portuguese on Ormuz, although he made it clear he had no intention of handing back any of the places he had seized.
List Legend Reformist (7) Principlist (4) Military (0) References The Governors General of Iran's provinces were elected in the government of Ebrahim Raisi.
As such the tribunal proceedings may be considered as finalized per the date of establishing the foundation.
The Supreme Leader of Iran has the power to dismiss cabinet members like ministers, vice presidents and presidents at any time, regardless of parliamentary decisions.
The legal code is now based on Islamic law or sharia, although many aspects of civil law have been retained, and it is integrated into a civil law legal system.
Ta'zir imprisonment is a type of imprisonment that is written and executed, differing from Hadd imprisonment (divine limits prescribed by Islamic law).
History Traditionally in Shia Islam, an ayatollah has an office (bayt), often run by his son, to communicate and advise his followers on religious issues and to organize matters such as the collecting and distributing of charity.
After a few years, the building was given to the Iranian Police Criminal Investigation Department of Tabriz.
Fatiha stated the Coastal Shield Brigade would take responsibility for any operations done against Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham in the Latakia Governorate.
Mothers of Khavaran were the first to call for the release of prisoners and warn of their possible massacre.
His desire to study religious sciences led him to the Shahid Morteza Motahhar High School in Tehran in 1360.
On June 29, 2004, IAEA Director General Mohammad ElBaradei announced that the Bushehr reactor was "not of international concern" since it was a bilateral Russian-Iranian project intended to produce nuclear energy.
According to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, at least 35 Iran-backed militiamen were killed in the strikes in Syria including 16 fighters of the Iraqi Popular Mobilization Forces and 4 fighters of the Afghan Fatemiyoun brigade and 1 of the Zainabiyoun brigade.
He holds a bachelor's degree in law, a master's degree and a doctorate in law from the Faculty of Law and Political Science, University of Tehran, and a master's degree in management from Indiana University.
Voters were required to give name, address and the number and place of issuance of his identity card.
Background Iranian opposition has divided been for decades, consisting of diverse ideological groups including republicans, monarchists, and various civic society movements.
Later, she established an elementary school for Afghan refugees in Iran while she was working as Officer in Charge in Refugees' Cultural Center.
Before the referendum, some political groups suggested various names consonant with the ideology of the revolution, such as a Republic or a Democratic Republic.
The Swedish Security Service (SÄPO) was severely criticised for having obstructed the criminal investigation carried out by the local Swedish police by withholding important information.
According to a report by Le Figaro, Western intelligence sources claimed in 2015 that Khamenei had prostate cancer with two years left to live.
Certain analysts believe the campaign failed to change Iran's regional activities or counter Iran's proxy influence in the region, force Iran to renegotiate the nuclear deal and hinder its nuclear and missile programs.
However, under article 235, if the active partner is non-Muslim and the passive partner is non-Muslim, the penalty is execution.
However, an increasing inclination of using the library by the researches and scholars, prompted a faster growth to the library.
It is a subdivision of the Ministry of Industry, Mine and Trade, which was established in 1962 in cooperation with United Nations.
HispanTV has foreign journalists from Argentina, Chile, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Russia, Spain, and Venezuela.
A doctor, Yaser Rahmani–Rad, stated to Sky News that his network of doctors had previously estimated 20 to 30 thousand protest-related deaths, and at the time of the interview, published on 29 January, judged that the true value "could be higher".
Socially, the group was heterogeneous, including: Arab tribal settlers from Basra and Kufa Mawālī (clients of Arab tribes) Iranian converts and local elites integrated into the Abbasid military structure This composition reflects the broader social coalition that underpinned the Abbasid Revolution.
Implementation The representatives of the interim agreement parties announced that implementation of the interim agreement would begin on 20 January 2014.
The other candidate for the post of deputy speaker was Mohammad-Hassan Aboutorabi Fard, a representative from Qazvin who became the second deputy speaker with 173 votes.
Architecture The building has an area of about 9,600 square meters and 6,500 square meters of infrastructure built on three floors.
Mousavi Faraz's father was Seyyed-Akbar Havaei, who was a draper who encouraged his son to go to a hawzah.
Due to political problems with North Korea, freight from South Korea must currently be shipped by sea to the port of Vladivostok to access the route.
Mothers Riahi, Qaedi, the Zakipour family, Mothers Okhovat, Vatankhah, Rezaie Jahromi, Nader, Bazargan, Zargar, Mother and Father Mir Arab, Mothers Abkenari, Bazargan, Sadeqi, Jasm, Tonkaboni, and Mother Sarhaddi and her extended family continue to frequent and preserve this historic site.
Russia Ahmadinejad has moved to strengthen relations with Iran's northern neighbor Russia, setting up an office expressly dedicated to the purpose in October 2005.
He studied at Gorgan in 371/981, then in Nishapur, but he eventually made his home in Baghdad, where he studied under prominent scholars of his time.
Personal life Elham's spouse, Fatemeh Rajabi, is a journalist known for her support for Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and also for her fierce criticism of former-presidents Akbar Rafsanjani and Mohammad Khatami.
Poetry Although Bahār was a 20th-century poet, his poems are quite traditional and decidedly patriotic.
In Lebanon, Hezbollah marks the occasion by organizing a substantive military parade for the last week of each Ramadan.
According to the head of the vaccine production team at the SETAD, the results show that this vaccine also neutralizes the British mutated COVID-19 virus.
Prominent attendees included far right political activist David Duke, revisionist historical scholar Robert Faurisson and Haredi Rabbi and anti-Zionist activist Yisroel Dovid Weiss among others.
He then served as one of the 12 members of the Guardian Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran for eight years.
The Financial Times reported that such action could cause oil prices to surge beyond the recent 7–14% increases, possibly exceeding $100 to $150 per barrel.
In 2008, the then chief of Iran's judiciary, Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi, ordered a fresh investigation and did not sanction her execution ruling that her initial conviction (based as it was on a confession she made under duress) was unacceptable.
Initially, the organization was known as SAVAMA, and intended to replace SAVAK, Iran's intelligence agency during the rule of the Shah, but it is unclear how much continuity there is between the two organizations—while their role is similar, their underlying ideology is radically different.
Functions The Islamic Consultative Assembly holds the authority to legislate laws on all matters within the boundaries defined by the Constitution.
Nonetheless, the relation between the two countries remain tense, with Iran seeing Jordan's alliance with the West as a threat, and there being little economic cooperation between the two countries.
Mousavi's removal from his post at the academy has provoked outrage from his colleagues, with 27 of 30 faculty members threatening to resign in solidarity.
The most notable members of the family were: Abu'l-Abbas Ahmad ibn Muhammad ibn Musa ibn al-Hasan ibn al-Furat (died 904), chief fiscal minister of the caliphs al-Mu'tadid and al-Muktafi until his death.
(Persian: فهرست نمایندگان دوره چهارم مجلس خبرگان رهبری, romanized: Fehreste nâmâyandegân dore chahârom majles-e khobregân-e rahbari) consists of names of the members during the fourth term of the Assembly of Experts from 2006 to 2016.
Other standards to consider include allowing for interoperability: Railway electrification – 25 kV AC the world standard for new long distance and heavy duty construction since the 1950s.
According to Article 131, when the presidency is vacant or the president is unable to perform his duties, the first vice president assumes the role, subject to the supreme leader's approval.
When Ruhollah Khomeini returned home from exile, the Mansouroun group was tasked with protecting the revolutionary leader.
A referendum on the dissolution of Parliament, the first referendum ever held in Iran, was held in August 1953.
Heads Mohammad-Ali Rahmani (1991-2007) Aboutorab Bahrami (2007-2018) Alireza Adyani (2018-2025) Ali Shirazi (2025-present) == References ==
History In 1964, the Medical Council was first legislated by the Iranian Parliament which has been amended eight times in the following years.
He also called on Iran to take the opportunity to "proceed to peace and harmony in the region", and said that he "will enthusiastically encourage Israel to do the same".
Ebrahim Rezaei Babadi (Persian: ابراهیم رضایی بابادی, born 1955 in Abadan) is an Iranian politician, and the president of Touring & Automobile Club of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
When the killing of Iranian military advisor Kioumars Pourhashemi by a Syrian Army officer became known in Aleppo, this resulted in the mutiny or defection of numerous militias and formations, including the Baqir Brigade.
Film The Iranian film When the Moon Was Full, written and directed by Narges Abyar in 2019, which won several awards at the Fajr International Film Festival, tells the story of AbdolHamid Rigi and his wife.
An advocate for the division of sciences based on epistemology, Mirbaqiri propses that sciences can be categorized as religious or non-religious.
In December 2015, at the 29th International Islamic Unity Conference in Tehran, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani called on Muslim countries to unite and strive to improve Islam's public image, adding that "There is neither a Shiite nor a Sunni crescent.
The first aircraft in service was the RT-33, followed by the more advanced F-5 and F-4 reconnaissance aircraft.
While not an ultimate aim per se, nationalism was seen as an instrument of anti-colonialist practices.
The amount of power the holder of the post had, fluctuated quite significantly throughout the centuries.
With the approval of the Direct Tax Law of 1966, it was decided to form the Association of Certified Public Accountants, effectively collapsing the legal basis of the Association of Certified Public Accountants.
It was further reported that the Government of Sri Lanka declined a request from the United States to permit the landing of two US military aircraft at Mattala Rajapaksa International Airport.
But the legitimacy of Sheikh Fazlollah Noori, after nearly a century, became the foundation for drafting the text of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Statute of the Islamic Consultative Assembly of Iran after the Islamic Revolution of Iran in February 1979.
now after the attack on Qatar by Israeli Forces Qatar is now approaching towards The Arab leaders Like MBS's Saudi Arabia to increase security corporation Russia Russia has been aligned with Iran and Syria for years.
Javanfekr is at present (27 February 2012) Presidential Advisor of Press Affairs and according to IRNA heads the official Islamic Republic News Agency and the Iran Press and Cultural Institute affiliated to IRNA.
According to the historian Martin Sprengling, Sulayman was well-versed in Arabic and Greek, as evidenced by the role he was assigned by Caliph Abd al-Malik as the katib (secretary) for official correspondence.
He was the first non-Christian diplomat at the General Assembly in New York and served as Iran ambassador to the United States until 1952, when he was removed and replaced by Allah-Yar Saleh under Prime Minister Mohammad Mosaddegh.
The funds and assets of the Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines (IRISL) were frozen and servicing of Iranian vessels inhibited.
'Possessors of Might'), previously known as the Southern Liberation Front (Arabic: جبهة تحرير الجنوب, romanized: Jabhat taḥrīr al-Janūb), is a militant organization established in response to the fall of the Assad regime and the ongoing Israeli invasion of Syria.
The Iraqi president, Saddam Hussein at the time, tore up the 1975 Algerian agreement by appearing in front of Iraqi television cameras, announcing the start of the Ba'athist regime's invasion of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Since 2011, AAH has assassinated Iraqi political opponents, killed civilian protesters, and continued attacks on U.S.
The National Post later retracted the original article and published an article, to the contrary ("Experts say report of badges for Jews in Iran is untrue").
There was extended debate about whether the bunker buster bombs would actually be able to destroy Fordow.
Biography Hedayat was born in Tehran on 8 June 1800 to a renowned family which was descended from the prominent 14th-century lyric-poet Kamal Khujandi.
The Islamic Republic of Iran Air Defense Force plays a crucial role in the nation's military framework, tasked with safeguarding Iran's airspace and essential infrastructure from aerial threats.
According to the report, a martial arts champion told an American diplomat that the Iranian government forces martial arts instructors to train the IRGC and Basij personnels and even participate in the suppression of opposition protests.
It is suspected that the new government was initially eager to purge SAVAK elements from the new organization, but that pragmatism eventually prevailed, with many experienced SAVAK personnel being retained in their roles.
The ideology of the Resistance Economy, with its core concepts of self-sufficiency, proclaims that the Islamic Republic can survive — and indeed flourish — despite the US-led sanctions.
On October 1, 2020, while meeting with the NAJA and the Intelligence Ministry of Iran, he believes that law enforcement should make, "the life of the unveiled unsafe".
Responding to negative reactions to Mostaan 110, IRGC spokesman Ramezan Sharif defended the IRGC's claims, saying the device had been tested for at least 10 days in at least 10 hospitals and treatment centers for coronary patients in the country more than 10 days before its official unveiling.
Due to the nature of its frequency, it can detect low-Radar cross-section targets such as stealth aircraft and cruise missiles with low accuracy at shorter ranges.
Transgender community Transgender people have formed non-governmental organizations and support groups in Iran.
He held this position until 1997 when he was replaced by Bijan Namdar Zanganeh after the election of the reformist president Mohammad Khatami.
However, Iranian president Muhammad Khatami had strongly opposed the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia in 1999 and condemned NATO harshly.
List of ministers See also Cabinet of Iran Government of Iran Industry of Iran Economy of Iran References External links Official Website
Azra Jafari (Dari: عذرا جعفری; born 1978 or 1979) is an Afghan politician and women's rights advocate who became the first female mayor in Afghanistan appointed by President Hamid Karzai in December 2008.
Professor Fereydoun Ala is the founder of the "Iranian Blood Transfusion Organization" and it can be said that he is the most experienced employee of the Blood Transfusion Organization.
It was the first time since Iraq's 1991 missile strikes that Israel was directly attacked by a state force.
Hoveyda was the minister of finance in the previous cabinet, and it was his first premiership which would last until 1977.
The Central Bank has developed the Real Time Gross Settlement System (SATNA) as the main center for settlement of Iranian banks' transactions in rial.
In such circumstances, it was natural to try to take into account both Islamic considerations and national interests.
The 1979 Constitution designated the supreme leader as the head of state and the president and prime minister as the heads of government.
The Ministry of Agriculture Jihad (Persian: وزارت جهاد کشاورزی Vezārat-e Jehād-e Kešâvarzi) is an Iranian government body established in 2001 responsible for the oversight of Agriculture in Iran.
In a video clip featuring the image of the former leader of the Lebanese Hezbollah group Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah, Abbas Shield Martyrdom Forces, Ya Ali Popular Formations and the Kataib Sarkhat al-Quds have threatened to take action in Syria and against the United States.
Cuba–Iran relations, which are characterized by economic and diplomatic cooperation, are quite friendly.
The pilot was shot in mid-air parachuting toward land by Syrian Turkmen rebels under Syrian Turkmen Brigades.
According to him, the strategy of Look to the East causes Iranian to pay a lot of financial ransom to the countries of the East for playing as broker in the world market.
Other historians, such as Hugh Kennedy, emphasize their role as a military aristocracy that evolved from the Abbasid revolutionary coalition into a hereditary elite.
The torch was passed from the old war heroes to younger educated technocrats to carry out the "White Revolution" and an explosive decade of growth.
Australian Security Intelligence Organisation (ASIO) director Mike Burgess said he believes Iran was also responsible for more antisemitic attacks in the country.
Under President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani in 1989, the two ministries were merged into one in order to cease parallel work and reduce interservice rivalry.
In Mashhad he became familiar with local clerics who were associated with the millenarian Shaykhí denomination of Shia Islam and was attracted to Shaykhí doctrine.
Stephanie Cronin of the University of Oxford describes corruption under the rule of Reza Shah as "large-scale".
It works mainly with Iranian corporations and government departments and Ministry of Defense, Ministry of Industry, and Iranian Armed Forces.
Behrooz Moazami also argues that it was one of the cabinets which did not follow the political agenda of the Shah in addition to the cabinets of Mohammad Mosaddegh and those of Ahmad Qavam in the Pahlavi rule.
After completing his preparatory studies at the same school, he studied the levels of rational and traditional sciences.
There was some debate about whether the aim of the boycott was to oppose segregation in sport or apartheid in general, with the latter view prevailing in later decades.
The organisers of the 1980 and 1984 Paralympics acceded to their governments' demands not to invite South Africa, but through to 1983 it continued to compete in the non-Paralympic ISMGs at Stoke Mandeville.
Irsan was given a warning and allowed to leave after he stated he was trying to get a drink to deal with a diabetic condition.
The National Front of Iran had announced in a statement on December 29, 1978 that if Bakhtiar accepted the post of Prime Minister of Iran, he would be expelled from the party.
These groups, all of them espousing Anti-Zionism, are known to attack Israeli civilians within Israeli territory and are known to use terrorism.
The premiership of Mohammad Mosaddegh began when his first government was formed on 28 April 1951 and ended on 19 August 1953, when his second government was overthrown by the American–British backed coup d'état.
Iranian social media was also united "in saying Erdoğan must refer to Iran's history, which spans thousands of years, before supporting separation." On 11 December, Iranian foreign minister Javad Zarif stated on Twitter: Pres.
Coastal Shield Brigade (Arabic: لواء درع الساحل, romanized: Liwāʼ Dirʻ al-Sāḥil) is a Syrian Assadist militant organization formed in January 2015.
See also Iranian Cultural Revolution Politics of Iran Iranian Revolution General Culture Council (Iran) Supreme Leader Representation in Universities (organization) External links Official website of Supreme Council of the Cultural Revolution == References ==
The legal profession According to Banakar and Ziaee, the history of the Iranian Bar Association (Kānūn-e Vūkalā-yeh Dādgūstarī) "can be traced back to the period after the 1906 Constitutional Revolution, when a modern legal system was established in Iran.
The National Front was led by Mohammed Mossadegh, who became prime minister within two months of Razmara's assassination.
This was "widely interpreted" (according to Radio Farda) as an invitation to his supporters to attack the non-hardline government of Hassan Rouhani.
In accordance with the instructions of the late Ruhollah Khomeini, one must not overrule the approved issues of this council.
Even though the battles were bloody and Swedish officers were at serious risk in Persia, many decided to join the gendarmes attracted by better pay and opportunities than in Sweden.
Following a second incident on June 17 in the Gulf of Oman in which two oil tankers caught fire after allegedly being attacked by limpet mines or by flying objects, the U.S.
Such reporting has allowed Al Alam to promote a pan-Muslim image in order to downplay the Shia-Sunni sectarian conflict during the height of Operation Iraqi Freedom.
The main functions of OPCP are: protecting and promoting domestic production; protecting consumers against unusual price fluctuations; monitoring, adjusting and controlling the price of products and services; The Government Trading Company (GTC) The GTC is affiliated to the Ministry of Commerce.
Some of the outstanding features of the complex are as follows: Affiliation of the complex to the shrine of Imam Reza Manuscripts of very long life, artifacts and museum objects, dating back 1000 years.
Recruitment of foreign militias The presence of state-sponsored foreign militias, namely the Iraqi Popular Mobilisation Forces, Arabic-speaking mercenaries, Lebanese Hezbollah, the Pakistani Liwa Zainabiyoun, and the Afghan Liwa Fatemiyoun, in suppressing protests was reported.
A few Persian love poems and texts from prominent medieval Persian poet Saadi Shirazi's Bustan and Gulistan have also been interpreted as homoerotic poems.
Mehr publishes all content on its website under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license.
The money would be used to aid "families of the martyrs, veterans, the missing, prisoners of war and the downtrodden." According to Reuters, one of the three co-founders of Setad, Mehdi Karoubi, wrote in 2009 that the organization was intended "to operate for no more than two years".
He deliberately returned just before the end of the 14th term, and expressed his regret for lack of time with "sardonic humor", in the last parliamentary session, when his ministers were approved.
The NOPO acronym had been claimed to be an acronym for "Wilayat Guardian Special Force" (Persian: نیروی ویژه پاسدار ولایت, romanized: Nīrū-yi Vizhe-yi Pāsdār-i Vilāyat) by reformist media in late 1990s; the association was denied.
He graduated as a doctor in 1915, the same year as the city's population was violently massacred by the Ottoman Empire during the Armenian genocide.
In February 2018, the brigade was involved in the Battle of Khasham along with Russian Wagner Group and Interbrigades against the US special forces and the US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces and lost many fighters.
The Qare'a (disposable) rocket launcher (Persian: راکت‌انداز یکبارمصرف قارعه) is an Iranian lightweight composite material disposable rocket launcher which has been designed in order to target fortifications.
As distinct from the UNESCO Convention, the UNIDROIT Convention focuses on the recovery of cultural property.
Many groups have later claimed to be the Baluchi Autonomist Movement's successors, including Jundallah (Iran), Hizbul Furqan, Jaish al-Adl, Ansar Al-Furqan.
18th of August 2016 PDKI and Iran clashed in the city of Shno On 7 September 2016, according to KDP-I statement, at least 2 KDP-I members were killed in an ambush by Iranian border guards near Sardasht.
In response, the UAE's Foreign Ministry summoned Iran's chargé d'affaires on 16 August and criticized Rouhani's speech as "unacceptable and inflammatory" which could impact the security scenario of the Gulf.
He claimed that his goal was to "improve conditions for ethnic Baluchis", and that his group was "fighting exclusively for the rights of Sunni Muslims in Iran".
However, one Georgian chronicle says he was a friend of equity, trustful in his language, a deep thinker, and profound in counsel.
Many were relocated to Iraq, particularly to the newly founded capital of Baghdad under Caliph al-Mansur, where they became known as the abnāʾ al-dawla.
It set a timetable starting in 2006 for negotiations to establish emission reduction commitments for a second commitment period.
He also ordered the crackdown on the revolt of Colonel Pessian which he crushed with the aid of Reza Pahlavi.
Sciences and arts and the most advanced results of human experience, together with the effort to advance them further; 3.Negation of all forms of oppression, both the infliction of and the submission to it, and of dominance, both its imposition and its acceptance.
List of controlled psychotropic substances Source: INCB Green List (28th Edition, 2017) Statistics All Schedules consist of 174 positions and common generalization clause for salts.
Tafazzoli was close to Ashraf Pahlavi and Abdolhossein Hazhir and was trusted by the Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi.
In Japan, the incident front-page news, reported as an unarmed private company picking a fight with the Royal Navy, which boasted the second largest naval force in the world at the time.
The Iran agreement has come despite determined hostility from conservatives within the United States, Israel, Saudi Arabia, the Gulf states, and Iran.
Market traders were influential during the 1979 Islamic Revolution, helping to mobilise public support that ultimately led to the overthrow of the monarchy.
History Islamic Republic of Iran Following the Iranian Revolution of 1979, the Senate of Iran was abolished and effectively succeeded by the Guardian Council, maintaining the bicameral structure of the Iranian legislature.
He held the governorship of Bushehr and Southern Ports and Ommanat in several periods until shortly after World War I.
This would be the first time that official armed units of sovereign states are included in a list of banned terrorist groups.
A large Mongol army led by Arghun Aqa invaded Georgia from the south, inflicted a heavy defeat on David and Sargis I Jaqeli in a battle near Akhaldaba, and then brutally plundered the country.
The Presidential Administration of Iran (Persian: نهاد ریاست‌جمهوری ایران), including the Office of the President of Iran, consists of the immediate staff of the President of Iran and multiple levels of support staff reporting to the President.
Cook writes that "according to a thirteenth-century geographer, a custom was observed each year in Gilan in the north of Iran, [whereby] scholars would seek permission from the ruler to command right.
Subordinate of General Staff of Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran, the university is dedicated to doctoral-level work on military doctrine, applied defense sciences and management.
The Shah's statement The amendment conclude with the following statements from the Shah: "In the Name of God, blessed and exalted is He." "The complementary provisions of the Fundamental Code of Laws have been perused and are correct.
He was also Minister of Interior in Hassan Rouhani's government and the president of the Supreme Audit Court from 2008 to 2013.
In 2011, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad made a speech at the United Nations General Assembly during which he said that the only correct name of the sea between Iran and the Arabian peninsula was the Persian Gulf, and he dismissed the use of any other names as "illegitimate and void".
In the resolution, Iran was banned from transferring, importing, and exporting arms, sensitive nuclear material and equipment, and missiles or missile systems for the duration specified.
In exchange, Iran imported 130 tonnes of uranium ore in 2015 and in late 2016 was approved to import 130 tonnes in 2017.
Mauritania: Mauritania expressed its "firm condemnation and denunciation of this aggression", claiming it undermines the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Qatar and expressing "full solidarity" with the State of Qatar, its leaders and its people.
The Asia and Pacific region's aggregate emissions were 7.9 billion tonnes, with per capita emissions of 2.6 tonnes.
Officials at the voting booth in favor of the motion reportedly did not check identity cards or stamp voter's hands to indicate having submitted a ballot, leading to accusations of voter fraud.
In 1967, the club evolved into the Game Council, and just four years later, in 1971, the modern Department of Environment was established.
Career In the post World War II era, Mansour started his political career by entering the foreign ministry and completed several internal and foreign assignments including tours of Germany and France.
Bahār became an active member of the Mashhad branch of Anjoman-e Sa'ādat (Society for Prosperity) that campaigned for establishment of Parliament of Iran (Majles).
The Coalition said: "there is no way for us to accept a non-balanced dialogue that lacks all guarantees, we see this dialogue as a media tool which the regime aims to reduce the severity of popular and international pressures".
Although the 1906 Constitution established a bicameral legislature, the Majles remained the only (unicameral) legislative chamber until the 1949 Constituent Assembly, in which the Senate of Iran was formed as the upper house, making the Majles the lower house.
Hamid Mowlana (Persian: حمید مولانا, Hamid Molana, born in Tabriz, East Azerbaijan, Iran) is an Iranian-American author and academic.
List of ministers The cabinet was consisted of the following sixteen members: Reshuffles and next cabinet Minister of Agriculture Hasan Arsanjani resigned from the office on 9 March 1963 and was replaced by Ismail Riahi.
Coordination of political activities, intelligence, social, cultural and economic fields relating to general policies of defense and national security.
Most recently, the form xšāyaθiya has been analyzed as a genuine, inherited Persian formation with the meaning 'pertaining to reigning, ruling'.
Between 1998 and 2002, Iran imported approximately 6 JY-14 surveillance radars from the China National Electronics Import-Export Corporation.
The Cooperative Foundation of the Revolutionary Guards) is a Bonyad in Iran, under control of Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
In early September 2017, large protests erupted in Kurdish cities in West Iran following the killing of two Kurdish men by Iranian security forces at the border.
That is why the castle was built on the highest point of the city of Khorramabad, so that the wind could penetrate the building and dry its foundations.
Al-Mustafa International University created a website with the letter and translation in various languages along with feedback and reactions from youth in different countries.
Parties to the convention have agreed to a process by which persistent toxic compounds can be reviewed and added to the convention, if they meet certain criteria for persistence and transboundary threat.
Involvement in governance and civil affairs Prior to the collapse of the Assad regime, the militia also took part in civil politics.
Education Ayatollah Ja'far Sobhani learned Arabic literature, Principles of Islamic jurisprudence in the Islamic Seminary.
Compiled by Ahad Gudarziani, the book was published by Sureh Mehr Publication, and the title comes from the opening sentence of a letter.
Iranian judiciary refuted the allegations, stating Soltani was charged with "colluding against national security" and "propaganda activities against the establishment," offenses which are not punishable by the death penalty in Iran.
He has also served as a visiting professor or guest scholar in Africa, Asia, Europe, and Latin America.
sanctions, especially after Iran's production of near-weapons-grade uranium and reduced cooperation with inspectors.
The activities of the GTC regarding the procurement of essential commodities are regulated by the statute "the Government Procurement Concerning the Supply of Basic Products and Foodstuffs Essential to the Public from Foreign Sources".
He also stated that the actions of the United States were "plung[ing] humanity into a crisis with irreversible consequences." See also Foreign relations of Cuba Foreign relations of Iran == References ==
Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama announced on 7 September 2022 that Albania would cut diplomatic relations with Iran in retaliation for a major cyber attack by Iran on the country.
The nature of this thinking - the export of the revolution - is the negation of oppression and tyranny and the denial of silence and passive attitude.
See also List of prime ministers of Iran Prime Minister of Iran Sepahsalar Mosque References The Cambridge History of Iran 7; Peter Avery; Cambridge University Press, 1991 The History of Iran (The Greenwood Histories of the Modern Nations); Elton L.
Assistance in providing the country's construction materials through production, supply, distribution.
External links Iran's 1906 Constitution and Its Supplement Constitution of Iran, 1906 (in Persian) Constitutional Revolution from Iran Chamber Society
On September 03, 2020, Iranian Defense Minister Brigadier General Amir Hatami said his country is capable of manufacturing more than 38,000 military equipment and hardware parts.
Khomeini demanded all armed groups to become part of one revolutionary organization and requested that Kurdish soldiers "return" their weapons.
Mohammad Ali Varasteh, Abdollah Entezam and Ala personally expressed their concerns about Shah's policies and their potential results which made all of them outsiders in the court of the Shah.
List of ministers The cabinet was consisted of the following ten members: Reshuffles The cabinet saw several reshuffles.
This is a list of foreign heads of state, heads of government who have visited the Iran, which is classified by the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs as either a state visit, official visit, or working visit.
In January 1922, he went to Moscow as a state representative to negotiate a friendship agreement, remaining there for one and a half years.
Certain western countries that unlawfully possess nuclear weapons want to keep the monopoly of nuclear fuel production for themselves.
The Kurds also had a three-man delegation: Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou, his aide Abdullah Ghaderi Azar (a member of the PDKI Central Committee) and Fadhil Rassoul, an Iraqi Kurdish university professor who had acted as a mediator.
On 6 May 2011, it was reported that Ahmadinejad had been given an ultimatum to accept the leader's intervention or resign, and on 8 May he "apparently bowed" to the reinstatement, welcoming back Moslehi to a cabinet meeting.
Mohammad Hossein's son, Mohammad Ibrahim Khan Nazir ol-Dowleh, married one of the Fath Ali Shah's daughters (Khadijeh Soltan Begom, "Esmat-ed-Dowleh) and Khan's daughter married Hossein Ali Mirza Farmanfarma, governor of Shiraz.
Staff testing body temperatures prior to the meeting requested Amirabadi and two other members of parliament to excuse themselves from the meeting and self-quarantine.
Javad Hajizadeh Koljahi (Persian: جواد حاجی زاده کلجاهی (born in 1958 in Kalahjah) is a Shiite cleric and Friday prayer leader of Maragheh who was elected as a representative of East Azerbaijan Province in the sixth session of the Assembly of Experts by winning 198,687 votes.
Following several years of development, the convention was adopted by the International Maritime Organization in 2004.
He was discharged in January 1907 after Mohammad Ali Shah Qajar came to power, but was reinstated in August 1907.
The IRGC is officially recognized as a component of the Iranian military under Article 150 of the Iranian Constitution.
The plan is designed to meet the requirements for compliance with the Convention and the G4 Guidelines produced by the IMO.
This included efforts to restrict Iran's oil export bringing it down to zero, as well as intensify sanctions, essentially reviving the hard line approach from his first administration.
While often characterized as a "pragmatic conservative" in foreign policy, his domestic record was marked by the oversight of significant crackdowns on civil unrest.
Mohammad Movahedi Azad, Iran's attorney general, warned that protesters are an "enemy of God", a crime punishable by death under Iranian law.
This regulatory organization has the power to issue a warning to doctors as well as certain allied health workers, suspend and even revoke their license to practice.
The original factory, built by the US Textron company, was to produce Bell 214s of different configurations in Iran with a deal that involved several hundred helicopters and technology transfers.
Then, at the same time as the US embassy in Tehran was captured, the US consulate in Tabriz was also occupied by the revolutionary invaders.
The cabinet led by Hossein Ala' was formed on 20 March 1951 two weeks after the assassination of Prime Minister Haj Ali Razmara.
Khorram was the Minister of Roads and Transportation under President Mohammad Khatami, until 3 October 2004, when he was impeached by the Majlis of Iran by 188 votes out of 258 present members of the parliament.
Many served as: Provincial governors Military commanders كبار court officials Prominent families of Khurasani origin became influential in Baghdad politics.
Benefits and services The organization administers statutory benefits including old-age pensions, disability and survivor pensions, unemployment insurance, workplace injury compensation, and health insurance coverage through affiliated medical facilities.
The institute was established in 1997 under the supervision of the Presidential Administration of Iran.
While awaiting execution, Barak was interviewed by several journalists about his crimes, during which he continued to proclaim that he had acted out of his own accord and gave accurate details of each crime scene.
It is a smoothbore and barrel-loading mortar with 360° field of firing and can be taken apart and carried by infantry.
Rawzat al-Montaha fi Mawled al-Imam al-Shafi'i References Bibliography Brown, Jonathan (30 September 2007).
Mahsa Amini protests Since September 2022, when the death of Mahsa Amini incited protests across the country, the prison has served both as a holding place for arrested protesters and as a site of protest against the execution of prisoners.
The constitution stipulated that all Prime Minister must be subject to a vote in parliament for both approval and removal.
A tablet was addressed by the Báb to each of the Letters of the Living, including Bastámí; no translation of this tablet into English exists at present.
With nine research groups in various fields of meteorology, this research institute conducts studies and researches related to pure meteorological science and recognizes, expands and presents their applications.
The missile is named after Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis, an Iraqi companion of Qasem Soleimani who was killed in an American airstrike in 2020.
According to Kurdish human rights activists in Iranian Kurdistan, Iranian security forces killed two civilians, who were working as porters, overnight on 27 June in Alan area of Sardasht city, West Azerbaijan province of Iran, on the border between Iran and Kurdistan Region.
Personal life In 1894, Iskandar married Maryam Davidkhanian, the daughter of another General, Martiros Khan Davidkhanian.
Anti-American activities According to the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, Vahidi's time at the IRGC is "replete with efforts to kill Americans" coinciding with threats from Tehran toward US personnel.
History After the 2003 Invasion of Iraq, ex-Badr commander Abu Mustafa al-Sheibani set up his own logistics, arms, and financing network using his connections with the Badr Organisation, which he also supplied.
May 2003: Three people killed and eighty-three injured in a suicide bombing at a shopping mall in Afula.
Organization According to available sources, the group's leader was Youssef Al-Hamdan, also known as Abu Issa Al-Masshadani.
Bournoutian mentions that this work "not only exposes multiple falsifications but also, based on a thorough research of Nizami's works, proves that Nizami was without doubt an Iranian poet".
The National Organization for Passive Defense (Persian: سازمان پدافند غیر عامل کشور) is an Iranian government bureau for civil defense in the country.
It was also seen as a way to improve the economies and accessibility of landlocked countries like Laos, Afghanistan, Mongolia, and the Central Asian republics.
Bill Data Corporations are required by law to safeguard Iranian users' private data; though it also requires National Information Network's "sanitation", prevention, countering and detection of cyber crime and obeying courts and Iranian judicial system orders'.
The ministry was finally founded on 18 August 1983, either abandoning, silently subsuming, or relegating to hidden existence many small intelligence agencies that had been formed in different governmental organizations.
It also caused significant opposition against him led by Atesh and its editor Mehdi Mir Ashrafi and Mard-i Imruz and its editor Mohammad Masud who publicly argued that Qavam should be killed due to the oil deal with the Soviets.
He has been described as a "chain smoker" and having a "gaunt face with a serious demeanor." Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini described him "Abu Dhar al-Ghifari in the time" in the message on the occasion of his death: "He was for Islam, Abuzar of the time.
He was secretary of the Expediency Discernment Council from 1997 to 2021 and Vice President of Iran for Economic Affairs between 2021 and 2023.
According to this theory, the Islamic world is a single nation and the criterion for the unity of the nation is its leadership.
The Convention set out the rights and obligations of the parties, including the waters, water bed, subsoil, natural resources, and airspace above the sea.
He received a vote of confidence from the 11th convocation of the Islamic Consultative Assembly (Iranian parliament) on June 23, 2021, with 187 votes in favor, 58 votes against, 8 abstentions and 2 invalid votes.
'Great Army Leader'), is the ultimate authority of all the Islamic Republic of Iran Armed Forces, and the highest possible military position within the Islamic Republic of Iran.
In 1995, after receiving a definite license for its first research institute called "Meteorological Research Institute", it officially started working.
Ahmadinejad has said he respects Jews and that "in Palestine there are Muslims, Christians and Jews who live together".
She campaigned for women's suffrage from within the Women's Organization, giving public lectures and writing on the subject.
the developing countries of Asia and South America) to suppress illicit supply, but also the duty of consumer countries (e.g.
shipping in the Persian Gulf will be Iran's first targets and they will be burned." In the last week of July, in Operation Brimstone, dozens of U.S., and naval ships from other countries, came to undertake joint exercises for possible military activity in the shallow waters off the coast of Iran.
On 21 August, the Islamic Consultative Assembly approved the nomination of Pezeshkian's entire cabinet, the first time it had done since 2001.
He was a hardliner administrator and banned some of the newspapers which had been published in the region.
It was decided that the Banknote and Coin Production Organization, in coordination with the Vision Document Preservation Commission at the council's secretariat, would use the Vision Document symbol for the coinage design.
Reza Marashi, research director of the National Iranian American Council, called Trump's statement "a vile response to grieving Iranians" and asked what would happen if Iranians claimed that the U.S.
The administrative divisions of Iran are arranged in four levels, the first level of which is the province (Persian: استان‌: ostān).
According to estimates published by the Statistical Center of Iran in the 1990s, more than 70 percent of the population was covered by at least one form of social insurance.
The PMF is led by Hadi al-Amiri and Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis, two Badr Organization leaders with ties το Iran since the 1980s.
These prohibited exports of key British commodities, including sugar and blocked Iran's access to its hard currency accounts in British banks.
The meeting During the related meeting, the Islamic Council's representatives reached a consensus with 211 votes in favor, 6 votes against, and one abstention, approving an immediate legal strategy to counter the adventurous and terrorist actions of the United States in the region.
Despite these efforts, relations during the 1990s were overshadowed by domestic politics and resulted in a period of distancing between the two countries.
"Chain" assassinations In late 1998, three dissident writers, a political leader and his wife were killed in Iran in the span of two months.
Qatar: The government welcomed the agreement as a "significant step" toward enhancing regional peace and stability.
The organization has been criticized for imposing extreme censorship and establishing online content monopoly.
Direct identity laundering refers to the creation of a new legitimate ship identity by registering an unclean vessel under a new clean identity.
1952–53: Reforms under Mossadegh When Mohammad Mossadegh took over the ministry on 21 July 1952, he initiated a series of reforms in the ministry.
Isfahan Central Prison, also called Dastgerd Prison, is a prison in south Isfahan, Isfahan province, Iran, on the Zobahan freeway.
The 5,750 miles (9,250 km) Trans-Siberian Railway covers much of this route and currently carries large amounts of freight from East Asia to Moscow and on to the rest of Europe.
Manucher Ghorbanifar (Persian: منوچهر قربانی‌فر, nicknamed Gorba; born May 9, 1945) is an expatriate Iranian arms dealer and former SAVAK agent.
The combat capabilities of the "Popular Resistance" remained unclear; the group's first video showed just a few masked men with guns.
According to a Quinnipiac poll taken 30 July – 4 August 43% of New York City voters oppose the agreement, while 36% support it; 42% said that the agreement would make the world less safe, while 40% said it will make the world more safe.
Career Ayat was a member of Zahmatkeshan Party before the Iranian Revolution but resigned from the party.
CASMII member Abbas Edalat was not satisfied with the apology, stating "We do not accept that because a story is at an 'early stage' misleading reports are therefore acceptable.
Iran has implemented the Additional Protocol and developed commercial nuclear power under strict International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards using a fuel leasing approach with fuel supplied by Russia and spent fuel returned to Russia." A 2009 U.S.
He took the position on 28 July, after the presidential election that was held in Iran in June–July 2024.
Yet, the working conditions, despite the legislation, were entirely at the whim of enterprise owners because the laws were not enforced, and the Labor Ministry was weak.
Dossa replied he did not know Holocaust deniers would be in attendance, that he has "never denied the Holocaust, only noted its propaganda power", and that the university should respect his academic freedom to participate.
See also Council for Spreading Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's Thoughts References External links Media related to Gholam-Hossein Elham at Wikimedia Commons Official website
Marzieh Vahid-Dastjerdi won approval as health minister, making her Iran's first woman minister since the Islamic revolution.
Alternatives to stoning Makarem's fatwa concerning stoning to death for adultery reads: "In certain circumstances, death by stoning can be replaced by other methods of punishment".
They are also said to be responsible for a roadside bombing which killed 3 British soldiers in July 2005 in al-Amarah and an attack in August 2005 against an embassy convoy in Basra which killed 3 British bodyguards.
secretary of state Mike Pompeo issued a statement accusing Iran of the attacks, Iran denied this calling it a false-flag attack.
The voting was held on 15 August and three of the eighteen nominees were not approved by the Majlis, those proposed to head the ministries of education, science, research and technology; and sports and youth.
According to the sixth five-year development plan (2016–2021), the subsidy reform plan is to continue until 2021.
Description Mostaan 110 is a series of smaller devices, though the main device appears to be a wired handheld device slightly resembling a power drill, featuring a long forward-facing metal antenna mounted to the top.
To this day there is a protected zone around the monastery administered by the Egyptian government, and there are very good relations between the 20 or so monks, mainly from Greece, and the local community there.
Jaleh's Basiji Identification Card was issued after his death with the help of his cousin, who works for the Ministry of Information.
People born in Iran of a father of foreign nationality who have resided at least one more year in Iran immediately after reaching the full age of 18; in other cases their naturalization as Iranian subjects will be subject to the stipulations for Iranian naturalization laid down by the law.
His presidential decree was signed on July 28, 2024, by the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Ali Khamenei, and his government formally started its work.
Zayanderud Drying - The river that once flowed through the heart of Isfahan is now dry most of the year.
Next, servants who are being paid by an employer to perform specific tasks, but do not have full control of their work, and act upon the employer's instructions and orders.
The revolutionary movement drew support from diverse groups, including Arab tribal factions, dehqāns (Iranian landed elites), and urban populations.
As Mokhber, the chief of Execution of Imam Khomeini's Order nominated, the activities which be performed by the Charity relies on people's help.
Progress of destruction On 7 July 2023, the OPCW announced that all 72,304.34 metric tonnes of declared chemical agent had been verifiably destroyed.
Already in 697, the transition from Persian to Arabic in the Iraqi bureaucracy had been carried out by Salih ibn Abd al-Rahman under Abd al-Malik's governor al-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf and possibly served as a model for Sulayman to emulate.
Masih Alinejad – Iranian agents have been accused of multiple plots to kidnap or assassinate Iranian-American journalist Masih Alinejad in New York.
Additional palaces were constructed in its vicinity for his siblings Shams (north, directly above), Ashraf (south, across the street) and Abdol Reza (east, across the street).
Background Premiership of Abdolhossein Hazhir was approved by 66 deputies out of 120 Parliament members on 13 June 1948.
As a matter of international law, no plants (natural material) containing psilocine and psilocybin are at present controlled under the Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971.
At present, the location of this consulate on "Shariati Street" in Tabriz has been turned into an "Reception Hall and Restaurant" owned by the Police Command of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
That is a clear majority of the 192 countries comprising the entire United Nations, which comprise 55% of the world population.
Atturaya was promoted to the head of a military hospital in Georgia during World War I and eventually attained the position of "Chief Medical Officer for the Northern and Southern Caucasian Railways".
Separate from the precursors, the convention defines toxic chemicals as "[a]ny chemical which through its chemical action on life processes can cause death, temporary incapacitation or permanent harm to humans or animals.
Here, he was able to take part in classes of teachers such as Ayatollah Muhsin al-Hakim, Ayatollah Abul-Qassim Khoei and Ayatollah Abdul Hadi ash-Shirazi.
Mostowfi had several children including a son, Mirza Yousof Mostowfi al-Mamalek II, who may have been named after his father.
The protestors delivered a memorandum calling the government to take solid measures against the occupation of Palestine to the Parliament.
One of the most vicious crimes has been committed and we didn't get the opportunity to hear a person of much interest for the investigation [...] When we see what they [SÄPO] have withhold from us, it feels very unsatisfactory".
Mohammad Khamenei was appointed as president of foundation by the decree of the then president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in July 2013.
It was signed in 1992 by 154 states at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED), informally known as the Earth Summit, held in Rio de Janeiro.
After World War II, the first meteorological observatories were established in Iran by the Allies in 1948.
He was arrested and sentenced to death by an Islamic revolutionary tribunal shortly after the Iranian Revolution for charges including corruption, contacts with Israel and Zionism, and "friendship with the enemies of God", and was executed by firing squad on 9 May 1979 in Tehran, Iran.
It is highly crowded prison, and there are plans to replace it with a new prison located outside the city.
On 17 January, another protester, 19-year-old Amirhossein Ghaderzadeh, was sentenced to death by hanging, with his execution scheduled for 21 January.
He also expressed appreciation for the Sri Lankan government’s hospitality and humanitarian assistance provided to the surviving crew and cadets.
The Mothers' campaign included public gatherings and written statements to authorities like including UN Secretary-General Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, and an unsuccessful attempt to meet with UN Special Rapporteur Galindo Pohl about the state of human rights in Iran.
He also criticizes the views of people – such as Abdolkarim Soroush – who say that while there is a society, or civilization, of Muslims, there is no such thing as an Islamic society or civilization and that Islam is a spiritual and individual way of life, not an ideology.
Economist Fariborz Raiis-Dana said that the decision dealt the coup de grâce to the structure of the national management organization.
In another, a Bahraini subsidiary of Vitol bought 2 million barrels of oil in a ship-to-ship transfer off the Malaysian port of Tanjung Pelepas.
During the Afghan civil war of the 1990s, Jafari fled to Iran as a refugee, where she completed high school and subsequently ran a school for refugee children.
Zahra Shojaie / Shojaei (Persian: زهرا شجاعی; 24 June 1956 – 26 March 2024) was an Iranian politician.
Circulated video footage showed a protester lying in the street in Qom with severe chest and arm injuries; the video was widely shared and described as showing a protester killed by a grenade.
During the Islamic Revolution he became chairman of the "secretive" Revolutionary Council, Iran's chief ruling body – a fact not revealed until his death.
Aircraft American aircraft types were acquired in the 1960s and 1970, with European made aircraft comprising the more modern part of the fleet.
In 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020, the Syndicate went on strike periodically, protesting unfulfilled promises made by officials.
Following these initial trips to London, Set Khan took several additional trips to England in an ambassadorial capacity.
He reiterated that the enrichment was performed for purely civil power purposes and not for weapons purposes.
In the meantime, Iran gave assurances that it would reinstall monitoring equipment at sensitive locations.
(Persian: سازمان پژوهش‌های نوین دفاعی, romanized: Sazman-e Pazhouheshhaye Novin-e Defa’i and abbreviated سازمان سپند) is a research and development agency of Iran's Ministry of Defence responsible for the development of emerging technologies for use by the military.
According to Bosworth, sarhangs were separate from ayyars, and were probably fighters with outstanding leadership or fighting qualities that were recruited from the latter.
Some scholars (Hasan al-Basri, Abdullah ibn Shubruma d.761) have argued that forbidding wrong is to be encouraged but not an obligation.
2007 January 15, 2007: Ardeshir Hosseinpour, an Iranian junior scientist involved in The Uranium Conversion Facility at Isfahan, dies, reportedly due to "gassing".
In an attempt to make its military industries more sustainable Iran has also sought to export its military products.
Idemitsu Kosan Kabushiki Kaisha, International Law Reports, 1 January 2021 Compensation for Expropriated Property in Recent International Law, Amir Rafat, Villanova Law Review, vol 4 no.
The experience of living in large cities shows that the interest of people from different social groups in keeping pets, including dogs, has increased, and many of the obvious things related to this interest are not observed by them.
Most sources suggest the airstrikes have been effective but not perfect in stopping the flow of sophisticated weapons to Hezbollah.
Other reforms in the 2013 code included strengthened provisions on the reduction of sentences of minors on the basis of their immaturity.
One of the most important issues related to foreign policy after the ninth government came to power was the Look to the East policy and expanding Iran's relations with Asian countries.
The meeting agreed on general principles of fisheries, protection of the Caspian Sea, and shipping from littoral countries.
He served his term as president prior to his death in a helicopter crash and, second to Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei, was leading the thirteenth government of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
They originally fought in the Iraqi Abu Fadl al-Abbas Brigade and later the Afghan Liwa Fatemiyoun brigade, and only became numerous enough to warrant a distinct brigade in either late 2014 or early 2015.
Article 107 of the constitution states: the task of appointing the Leader shall be vested with the experts elected by the people.
See also Commission of National-Security and Foreign-Policy (of Islamic Parliament of I.R.Iran) Foreign relations of Iran Politics of Iran References External links Media related to Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iran at Wikimedia Commons
At the funeral on 23 March, Ali Khamenei described Reyshahri as "a benevolent person who served the people" and "always a source of blessings".
It can be described as a broad based agreement as it settled just about every kind of German debt arising from the period before and after the Second World War.
On 21 November 2011, he was handcuffed in a raid on his office in Tehran, in which tear gas was used.
Ebrahim Hakimi (Persian: ابراهیم حکیمی; 1869 – 19 October 1959) was an Iranian politician and statesman who served as Prime Minister of Iran on three occasions.
In the early 1970s, he was appointed by the Shah of Iran to lead the newly formed Atomic Energy Organization of Iran (AEOI) in Tehran.
History There is no information about the exact date of the establishment of the library of Asta- Quds - Razvi.
The channel is one of the newer television channels in Iran and was launched on 17 September 2013 as a test airing only in Tehran, which officially established on 7 May 2014 and began airing nationally on 24 December 2014.
The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank was established in 2015 and has substituted the proposed role of the SCO Development Bank to fund infrastructure projects in the region.
Critics also complained that the judges were biased, unfair, too rigid, used the death sentence much too often, and applied the death penalty to undeserving people.
The event marked the beginning of the guerrilla era in Iran for most historians — an era which ended with the Islamic Revolution.
The owners of the property are then pressured "to buy the property back or pay huge fees to recover them".
Soleimani played a role in advising Hezbollah for its defense from Israel in the 2006 Lebanon War and at least once accompanied Imad Mughniyeh.
The Plan and Budget Organization (PBO), formerly known as the Management and Planning Organization (MPO), is one of the largest governmental establishments in Iran.
He first served in the cabinet led by Prime Minister Ali Amini and succeeded Ahmad Ali Bahrami in the post.
The purpose was the promotion of livestock development in general and national and international research and action with respect to animal health and husbandry problems in Asia, and Far East and the South-West Pacific.
Iranian military bands (Persian: گروههای نظامی ایران) refer to musical units that serve in ceremonial roles in the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and the Islamic Republic of Iran Army.
Sanctions The US Treasury Department put sanctions on Fattah in December 2010 due to his activities in the Bonyad Taavon Sepah that provides services to the IRGC.
Living quarters are disinfected daily, and any suspected cases of COVID-19 are quarantined in a recovery center.
He later assumed the posts of the permanent secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and deputy foreign minister.
In these courts, except for a number of rulings which are definitive by law, other decisions can be re-examined.
Early life According to Rashid al-Din, when he was young, his father sold his son Arghun to Qadan of the Jalayir, tutor of Ögedei who passed him to his son Ilüge, while according to Juvayni his father was a mingghan commander.
Still, Iran was at the time unable to construct a nationwide, integrated air defense network, and continued to rely on point defense of key locations with surface-to-air missile batteries.
Fallahzadeh was listed for his involvement in “hostile activity by an armed group backed by the Government of Iran,” including threats to other nations’ security.
During this period, Alexander also spent time at the Soviet embassy in Tehran since diplomatic relations had been restored in 1920, maintaining friendships with the Ambassador and other members of the Soviet diplomatic mission.
The total gold reserves of the two cities of Sush and Persepolis in Alexander's invasion of Iran are estimated at one billion and eight hundred million gold francs.
federal court against the Islamic Republic of Iran, and obtained a judgments against Iran for its role in the 1983 Beirut barracks bombings (in which 241 U.S.
At the second congress same as the first one, scholars of more than 80 countries received invitations and about one thousand people participated.
Sadiq Ardashir Larijani (born 12 March 1961) is an Iranian cleric and politician who currently serves as the chairman of Expediency Discernment Council since 2018.
Electoral history Personal life According to Iranian Diplomacy, Mirsalim is married to an Iranian woman.
Overview The term was coined in 2004 by King Abdullah II of Jordan at a time when Iran was reportedly interfering in Iraq in the run-up to the January 2005 parliamentary elections.
Both countries strengthened their land forces along the river bank, stationing artillery, tanks and anti-aircraft weapons.
To rectify this grievance and support his community, Martiros Khan Davidkhanian built a large bathhouse behind one of his mansions for the exclusive use of the Armenians of Iran.
From September 12, 2011, his ambassadorship to Egypt, Jordan, Syria, Iran, Iraq, Yemen, Oman and Lebanon ended and he was appointed a representative to Zimbabwe.
Iran later confirmed the reports, though it denied the drones were meant to be used in the Ukraine war, and added that China was on the list of countries looking to import Iranian drones.
Its members mostly consists of tribesmen from the al-Baggara tribe that traditionally supported the rule of the al-Assad family despite being mostly Sunni Muslim.
… Especially timely given recent events throughout the Middle East, this book is recommended for anyone wishing to better understand the workings of a police state." – Kirkus Reviews.
As well, the report highlighted a culture of gatekeeping in the healthcare system, often imposing extremely long waiting periods on patients out of a belief that it would lower regret rates.
In January 2019, the Israel Defense Forces confirmed that it had carried out strikes against Iranian military targets in Syria several hours after a rocket was intercepted over the Golan Heights.
Tax evaders typically are either involved in activities in the gray sector of economy or in the underground market which they do not divulge.
In September 2007 Ahmadinejad visited New York to address the General Assembly of the United Nations.
While Baghdad reported the issue to the UN Security Council, the Arvand Rud Crisis marked a significant triumph for Iran.
This doctrine was introduced in a situation where some officials, regardless of national interests, believed that Iran should interfere in the affairs of some certain countries and should take actions.
Some protests include: Iran student protests, July 1999: Protested the closure of the reformist newspaper (Salam), and violent attack on a student dormitory by riot police.
He is also a graduate of Isfahan University of Technology in economic systems design and of Manchester University in economics.
When the platform is moved away, the condemned dies of strangulation and loss of blood to the brain.
The pro-Israel Washington Institute had estimated at least 255 casualties between 19 January 2012, and 8 March 2016.
Animal Production and Health Commission for Asia and the Pacific (APHCA) was formed by International treaty in Rome, 22 June 1973 originally through an Agreement for the Establishment of a Regional Animal Production and Health Commission for Asia, the Far East and the South-West Pacific.
These included the August 1963 Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, the January 1967 Outer Space Treaty, and the July 1968 Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
During the Anglo-Persian Oil Company dispute in 1932-1933, Entezam served as secretary to the Iranian delegation and accompanied Ali-Akbar Davar and Hossein Ala' to Geneva to present Iran's case at the League of Nations.
And there are reports that Esmaeil Bakhshi,one of the company's workers' representatives, is still arrested and there are some news of him being beaten in prison.
On 21 November 2015, Iran reportedly carried out a test of the Ghadr-110, having a range variously reported between 1500 and 2000 km.
2010 parliamentary election In the 2010 parliamentary election, the Sadrist Movement ran as part of the National Iraqi Alliance.
Following Hassan Rouhani's election as President, Bahonar was appointed by Chairman Ali Larijani as the parliament's liaison to the newly elected executive branch in transition mandate.
She sailed through shoals and mines, outwitted the Royal Navy, and broke through the naval blockade, arriving at Kawasaki Port at 9am on May 9.
Hujjat al-Islam Seyyed Mohammad Vaez Mousavi (Persian: سید محمد واعظ موسوی, was born 1964 in Shabestar, East Azerbaijan) is an Iranian Shiite cleric and politician.
Ziad Abu-Tir: senior member of the military wing was killed in an Israeli airstrike in the Khan Younis area, 29 December 2008.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Persian: وزارت امور خارجه, romanized: Vezārat-e Omūr-e Khārejeh) is an Iranian government ministry headed by the minister of foreign affairs, who is a member of cabinet.
The original Mesbah project was later on replaced by indigenous Mesbah-2 which is to be built and launched by Iran alone.
The parliament currently consists of 290 representatives, an increase from the previous 270 seats since the 18 February 2000 election.
Arne Nilsson, a retired police officer who was working on the case, said in the film: "It's terrible.
Most of the cabinet members were nationalist veterans and sympathizers of the Freedom Movement of Iran, with a few from the National Front.
Effect of the bill Radio Farda reported that Instagram (at the time unblocked in Iran) may be affected by the act.
Iraq also launched a series of relatively large-scale air and missile strikes against Iranian cities.
He offered three portfolios (Health, culture, and trade and industry) to the communists and gave the ministries of finance and communications to two royalists; while maintained his own control over interior and foreign ministries.
Khatam al-Anbiya Construction Headquarters, the IRGC's major engineering arm & one of Iran's largest contractors employing about 25,000 engineers and staff on military (70%) and non-military (30%) projects worth over $7 billion in 2006.
Sanctions When the IAEA verifies Iran's implementation of its key nuclear commitments: The EU will terminate all nuclear-related economic sanctions.
Ministers See also ارشاد, ershad, 'guidance' at Wiktionary Media of Iran Hajj and Pilgrimage Organization Islamic Culture and Communication Organization Office of Literature and Art of Resistance References Further reading "Fashion police".
See also Constitutionalization attempts in Iran 1949 Iranian Constituent Assembly 1963 Iranian referendum Constitution of Islamic Republic of Iran References and notes Further reading Massie, Eric; Afary, Janet (2019).
Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou (Kurmanji Kurdish: عەبدورەحمان قاسملۆ, Ebdurehman Qasimlo; Sorani Kurdish: عەبدوڕەحمان قاسملوو, romanized: 'Ebdur̄eḧman Qasimlû; Persian: عبدالرحمان قاسملو; 22 December 1930 – 13 July 1989) was an Iranian Kurdish politician and leader.
Antonio de Gouvea returned to Iran to mend relations between countries, but the letter he delivered from King Philip of Spain offered no military support and no diplomatic advancements were made.
One of the most prevalent issues after the conference was the question of human rights violations in the Soviet Union.
companies are prohibited from trade with Iran under unilateral sanctions, but most foreign companies are free to trade with Tehran.
Hekmat was an Iranian ambassador to India and wrote multiple books about Indian history and culture.
The agreement would enter into force (and thus become fully effective) if 55 countries that produce at least 55% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions (according to a list produced in 2015) ratify or otherwise join the treaty.
According to Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, Khomeini chose Beheshti, Motahhari, Rafsanjani, Bahonar, Mir-Hossein Mousavi and Musavi Ardabili as members.
Aftermath In 2003, Sveriges Television showed a documentary film about the case by filmmaker Oscar Hedin.
Main members of Cultural Revolution Headquarters First core of Cultural Revolution Headquarters between 1984 and 1987: Current members All the 28 members of council are selected by the supreme leader of Iran.
The current president, Masoud Pezeshkian has been in office since 28 July 2024 after winning the 2024 presidential election.
See also List of Iranian news agencies Media of Iran References External links Media related to Mehr News Agency at Wikimedia Commons Official website
Decisions by the Party of import on whether or not to accept the import of LMOs-FFP are taken under its domestic regulatory framework that is consistent with the objective of the Protocol.
Following the Armenian genocide during World War I, thousands of Armenians fled to Iran, enjoying the bathhouse as a haven and luxury from anti-Armenian sentiment.
He resigned from this position on July 24, 2018 President of the World Assembly of Silk Road Cities WASRC President of the World Assembly of Islamic Cities WAIC Education: Ph.D.
Tabriz Municipality Palace has a four-page clock tower with a height of 30.5 meters with the rhythmic resonance of its bells, every hour, it brings the passage of time to the ears of the people of Tabriz.
Foreign Ministry spokesperson Majed al-Ansari said that Qatar reserved the right to "respond directly, proportionate to the nature and scale of this blatant aggression".
During the rule of Alam Iran witnessed the acceleration of demonstrations by the religious establishment which made Ruhollah Khomeini a leader of opposition and the increase of land distribution by the state.
Reflecting the office's origin in the military, the primary responsibility of the beylerbeys and their sanjakbeys was the maintenance of the sipahi cavalry, formed by holders of the military fiefs, whom they led in person on campaign.
The archive constitutes a unique and concrete answer to the scarcity of available information in this domain, addressing in a systematic and academic manner the controversial debate revolving around the Iranian electoral process.
The president has the authority to introduce members of his cabinet to the Iranian Parliament for confirmation under the Constitution of Iran.
Among the programs of this ceremony, a number of them have been prepared and compiled in the form of a compact disc (CD), which can be obtained through the program office.
According to the Iranian government, on 23 February 2010, Rigi was aboard a flight from Dubai, United Arab Emirates to Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, travelling with a forged Afghanistan passport.
In 2012, he became Governor of Ilam Province in the Ahmadi Nejad Government, as well as general manager of political Ministry of Interior.
The missile, which was unveiled in August 2011, has a range of 300 km and was described by Iranian officials as "the most powerful and precise missile of the Islamic Republic of Iran’s Navy".
Non-Persian versions Tasnim staff includes English speakers, who translate some of the agency's articles into English.
The rulings issued by this court are in the form of annulment and confirmation of lower courts' decisions.
While Mahsa was her Persian given name, her Kurdish name was Jina (also spelled Zhina), and this was the name her family used.
According to Parvaneh Vahidmanesh one of the opponents of the Iranian government, he has Jewish ancestors.
In theory, voluntary renunciation of Iranian citizenship is possible for persons over the age of 25, subject to approval by the Council of Ministers.
In popular media Increased international attention to the Iranian transgender community and their legal status may have been a result of 2002 award-winning film Juste une femme (Just a Woman) by Mitra Farahani.
The routes converge in the Iran's capital of Tehran and continue to the Iranian port of Bandar Abbas.
On February 27, 2025, the IRFS began forming military cells in Southern Syria, likely with Iranian backing.
He resigned from these posts in 2001, and Seyed Mohammad Shahcheraghi was chosen by Ali Khamenei to replace him.
In 2006, following international concerns regarding the government's nuclear program, a comprehensive, international sanctions regime was imposed on Iran.
Reportedly, the contract was so large that a new Textron division had to be founded to meet Iranian demands and handle the program with Delk M.
In April 2017, 30 men were arrested in a raid in Isfahan Province, "charged with sodomy, drinking alcohol and using psychedelic drugs".
At the same time, they have executive responsibility for law enforcement, prosecutions, setting priorities in the hearings of cases in their role as the head of the public prosecution for the state.
The Management and Planning Organization was revived under President Hassan Rouhani's government on November 10, 2014.
See also 1953 Iranian coup d'état Abadan Crisis References External links Media related to Gholam Hossein Sadighi at Wikimedia Commons
The conflict reignited once more in June 2015, accompanied by ongoing Turkish involvement in the Syrian Civil War and harassment of Kurdish parties in Turkey.
Following the 2011 attack on the British Embassy in Iran, the British government expelled all Iranian embassy staff and closed the embassy in protest, alleging government support for the attack.
Governor of Azerbaijan (1908-1909) Eyn-ed-Dowleh was sent to Azerbaijan (Iran) as governor to quell the Siege of Tabriz (1908–1909), which was started by Sattar Khan and Baqir Khan.
Today, the most important ranking criterion of countries and world powers is the extent of influence and diversity of media activities of these countries.
The first drawback of this passport is the personal photo in which Fashi looks at a point outside the camera frame, and such a photo will never be accepted for passport issuance.
While at Ferdowsi, during the ceremonial visits by the late Shah of Iran, Mojdehi refused to allow the military brass to lead the ceremonial processions.
After a CIA-backed coup d'etat overthrew Mossadegh, Sadighi was arrested and later testified in defense of Mossadegh at the latter's trial.
This missile's name have been applied based on the name of Mansour Sattari, who was the Commander-in-Chief of the Islamic Republic of Iran Air Force.
It was founded in 2007, because no other judicial committee would investigate allegations made against the government of Islamic Republic of Iran.
One night Bahari dreams of a song of Leonard Cohen and later called the song his secret weapon against his interrogators: "Oh the sisters of mercy, they are not departed or gone.
Battalion 056 Kheibar is composed of Companies 61, 62, 63, and 64, and its soldiers hold bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degrees.
Military Army and Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) veterans and their families received additional tax cuts and exemptions.
According to this, Ahmadinejad, while reforming the approaches and policies of the previous government (Khatami), which was based on establishing and deepening relations with the West and specifically Europe, made special efforts to establish relations with the Eastern world.
Among them he noted the impact that major Western powers had with their military operations in the Islamic world.
Such a claim may be brought in three years from the time when the claimant or the requesting State knew the location of the cultural property and the identity of the possessor and in 50 years since the time of the theft, the export or from the date on which the object should have been returned (Art.
'Alí Rizā Awsatí (عليرضا اوسطى), Iran in the Past Three Centuries (Irān dar Se Qarn-e Goz̲ashteh – ايران در سه قرن گذشته), Volumes 1 and 2 (Paktāb Publishing – انتشارات پاکتاب, Tehran, Iran, 2003).
In 2011, Iran signed a contract worth $10 billion with Baghdad and Damascus in order to export Iran's gas to Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, the Mediterranean region and eventually Europe.
In 2021, Mokhber was sanctioned by the United States over EIKO's role in violating “the rights of dissidents by confiscating land and property from opponents of the regime” and other human rights abuses.
In the Islamic Republic Transparency International defines corruption as the "abuse of entrusted power for personal gain".
Other countries Argentina: President Javier Milei expressed "solidarity and unwavering commitment" to Israel, and said he "emphatically support[s] the State of Israel in the defense of its sovereignty".
Under Mossadegh, some 15,000 personnel were transferred from the army to the gendarmerie and 136 officers, including 15 general officers, were purged.
Islamic Republic of Iran The outbreak of Iranian Revolution and subsequent establishment of an Islamic republic in Iran changed their relationship drastically from positive to negative.
2026 Iran war Following the assassination of Ali Khamenei during the 2026 Iran war, Badr Organization leader Hadi al-Amiri pledged allegiance to the new supreme leader of Iran, Mojtaba Khamenei.
After the group claimed responsibility for the attacks on Al-Asad Airbase, the group disappeared and has remained inactive since 2025.
Qavam who won the competition for office over Hossein Pirnia with 53 to 52 votes, was supported by the Tudeh fraction while deputies associated with the National Will Party voted against him, according to Jamil Hasanli.
Iran has argued these demands unfairly compel it to abandon its rights under the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty to peaceful nuclear technology for civilian energy purposes.
They were taken in across the country, including in Kermanshah, Kurdistan, and West Azarbaijan as well as within Tehran itself.
With profits made from the 1973 oil crisis, Pahlavi decided to increase Iran's civil nuclear program and dispatched Iranian students to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to learn nuclear engineering.
It requires all non-nuclear-weapon state parties to accept International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards to verify that their nuclear activities serve only peaceful purposes.
He is related to Markar Davidkhanian, the former Minister of Finance of Iran, and Martiros Khan Davidkhanian, the former Chief of Staff of the Persian Cossack Brigade, among others.
Article 5 The government is obliged to take the necessary measures to block the import of goods and to prevent the conclusion of contracts with companies whose main shareholders are Zionist enterprises.
Deputy commander of Quds Force In April 2021, following the death of his predecessor Mohammad Hejazi, Fallahzadeh was appointed Deputy Commander of the Quds Force, the IRGC’s elite overseas operations branch.
The council took its legitimacy from the 9 December 1984 decree of the founder of the Islamic Republic, Ayatollah Khomeini.
Demographic tensions Palestinian insurgency in Lebanon In the 1960s Lebanon was relatively calm, but this soon changed.
He was put on trial for heresy on the basis of a copy of the Qayyúmu'l-Asmáʼ in his possession on 13 January 1845 by a combined panel of Shiʻa and Sunni clerics.
On March 24th, the Iranian ambassador to Colombo reaffirmed Iran’s commitment to supporting Sri Lanka, stating that despite tensions in the Strait of Hormuz, it remains open to friendly countries like Sri Lanka and that Iran remains ready to supply essential resources, including oil, if needed.
As of 2014, twenty-five insurance companies are active in Iran and all, except one, are privately owned.
The Russian general Alexander Tormasov resolved to attack Hossein Qoli as soon as he realized Sherif Pasha had not mobilized his forces.
Owning Persepolis and Esteghlal The Ministry of Sport and Youth owns two major clubs of Iran, Persepolis and Esteghlal.
Meshkini chaired the commission that drafted the amendment of 1989 to the 1979 constitution of Iran.
For more than 30 years preceding the American strikes, the United States has been the foremost defender of Israel on the international stage, as well as the main provider of military aid to Israel with few pauses.
Iran's Tasnim news agency reported drone hits at the US Victory Base Complex, near Baghdad International Airport.
The council was formed on 3 August 1980 with the consent of Iran's Supreme Leader, Seyyed Ruhollah Khomeini.
Later, the brigades from Yazd province also established their own unit, the 18th Al-Ghadir Brigade, and split from the Najaf Division.
It was also selected as a member in the Governing Council of Statistical Institution for Asia and the Pacific (SIAP) affiliated to ESCAP during 2005-2010.
Australia had maintained, despite a strenuous relationship, a continuous diplomatic presence in Iran from 1968 to 2025.
In a speech at Harvard University in 2010, Pakistan's foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi argued that Iran had "no justification" to pursue nuclear weapons, citing the lack of any immediate threat to Iran, and urged Iran to "embrace overtures" from the United States.
There is no consensus on how many rockets Hezbollah has in total, and while estimates of around 150,000 are commonly repeated, Jane's calls this propaganda.
In an interview with Financial Times, Ramin stated that he has also initiated the "Holocaust commission" and he is the founder of the Conference on Holocaust in Tehran.
Nasrollah Entezam (Persian: نصرالله انتظام; also spelled Naṣr-Allāh Enteẓām; 16 February 1900 – 19 December 1980) was a diplomat, politician, and minister, as well as Iranian Ambassador to the United States and France.
These claims were repaid by means of Fundierungsschuldverschreibungen (funding debt securities) with a maturity of 20 years.
After finishing elementary and high school in Tabriz, Hakimi attended Dar ol-Fonoon in Tehran and finished advanced studies in medicine in Paris.
Several notable political prisoners have been incarcerated here, including Navid Afkari, Kasra Nouri, Vahid Afkari, Ali-Akbar Masoumi Beigi, and Ezzatollah Sahabi, from pre-1979 Revolution to the present.
HispanTV is an Iranian Spanish-language news channel operated by Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting, Iran's state-controlled broadcaster.
Foreign companies are therefore advised to adopt a medium- to long-term strategy for the Iranian market.
715–717) removed the deputy governors and commanders appointed or associated with al-Hajjaj, including the latter's successor in Iraq, Yazid ibn Abi Muslim.
People are increasingly inclined towards the Koran, towards Islam, towards the Islamic Revolution and the Imam [Khomeini].
He was an economic advisor to President Hassan Rouhani from 2013 to 2017, and was his economical aide from 2017 to 2018.
In late July 2013, on the 25th anniversary of the mass executions, Islamic Republic security forces once again began a process of summoning family members and threatening them with arrest should they attempt to gather or publicly mark the anniversary in any way.
The National Geoscience Database of Iran (Persian: پایگاه ملی داده‌های علوم زمین کشور) or in brief NGDIR is a scientific and research government agency in Iran which works in the field of Geology of Iran and centrally manages Geoscience data.
Timeline In October–September 2034, SATRA deleted all 100 terabytes of files from a data center after reported criminal content.
She was convinced that the key to solving gender discrimination was for men and women to get to know each other and each others' lives and thus be able to feel understanding and compassion for each other.
One reason for this success was the purported descent of the al-Baggara from Muhammad al-Baqir, the Shia Imam after whom the Baqir Brigade was named.
On 1 February, the Office of the President of Iran published a list of 2986 people killed in "recent incidents" out of the 3,117 that it had earlier stated as having been killed during the protests, stating that 131 identities were not yet determined.
He attended classes from many esteemed Shia scholars such as Hossein Borujerdi, Ruhollah Khomeini, and Mohaghegh.
Former Israeli military intelligence chiefs Amos Yadlin and Aharon Ze'evi-Farkash also criticized Netanyahu's reaction as damaging to U.S.
Ramin personally invited German psychologist Bendikt Frings, a member of the far-right National Democratic Party of Germany.
Furthermore, these textbooks are often exported for sale at cheaper prices in other countries, which do maintain copyright relations with the United States.
The commission examined allegations including reports that at least 20,000 political prisoners were killed in Iranian prisons.
The National Consultative Assembly (Persian: مجلس شورای ملی, romanized: Majles-e showrā-ye mellī), or simply Majles, was the national legislative body of Qajar and Pahlavi Iran from 1906 to 1979.
The Star of the Islamic Republic is larger, simpler and more stylised, comprising a golden eight-pointed star within a silver eight-pointed star; stylised inscriptions on the stars provide decoration and contrast.
Network for Public Policy Studies The Network for Public Policy Studies was established by the Center in 2015 to advance the study of public policies.
He witnessed the era of the Republic of Mahabad and became a co-founder member of the youth wing of KDP-I at the age of 15.
Anti-Armenian violence and activism In January 2004, the Grey Wolves prevented the screening of Ararat, a film about the Armenian genocide, in Turkey.
According to the Washington Institute in 2015: "...the pre-deal asset freeze did not have as much of an impact on the Iranian government as some statements from Washington suggested.
He seems to have learned of the assassination, but not of the presence of 'Ala' al-Din's large Khwarazmian army in the vicinity, and he was defeated and captured (sources are divided on whether he actually got into the city at all, or was stopped en route).
See also List of armed groups in the Syrian Civil War Shabiha Sabireen Movement Notes References Works cited AFPC (2017).
missiles, and bought Soviet-designed 9K11 Malyutka (NATO reporting name AT-3 Sagger) ATGMs and other weapons from North Korea, China, Syria and Libya.
The ministry is considered one of the three "sovereign" ministerial bodies of Iran due to nature of its work at home and abroad.
The 16th Armoured Division of Qazvin was formed by the Imperial Army of Iran with a number of units that were abstracted from the Isfahan Brigade, Maragheh Brigade and Kermanshah Brigade.
The assassination took place during the KDPI insurgency (1989–96), as part of the general Kurdish separatism in Iran.
Thus, in addition to national interests, the Iranian government must also address the interests of the Islamic world, and other Islamic countries are obliged to support and defend Iran as the core of nation of the Islamic world.
It underwent changes in the 2020s with government contracts for productions going through to Simafilm instead of IRIB network.
Visa requirements for Iranian citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of the Iran.
Early life Haj Mohammad Hassan Amin Al-Zarb was born in Isfahan to a family that had been engaged in trade for at least three generations.
As the founding director of the Department of Environment, Firouz played a central role in transitioning the Hunting Club into a national agency with legal authority to protect natural areas, regulate hunting, and oversee environmental planning.
Governmental authorities gave warnings on Telegram and Instagram forbidding the publication of information about Khodayarifard's killing.
Furthermore, the new SDF-backed civilian administration in areas such as Raqqa proved unable to fully alleviate the local humanitarian crisis.
The purpose is to adopt uniform international rules and procedures for determining questions of liability and providing adequate compensation.
Representatives Thomas Massie (R-KY) and Ro Khanna (D-CA) introduced a parallel resolution, the War Powers Resolution, in the House of Representatives.
Former Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesperson, Hamid Reza Asefi, said Saudi Arabia is seeking to exploit and misuse of what he termed "civil rallies and freedom of expression" and claimed that Saudi regime is trying to incite chaos in Iran for their own political ends.
Views on the flexibility mechanisms Another area which has been commented on is the role of the Kyoto flexibility mechanisms – carbon emission trading, Joint Implementation, and the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM).
2- An evaluation of the capabilities and expertise of American military and intelligence forces, as well as their activities in the region.
The fund is also required to "indemnify the shipowner or his insurer" in spills where a ship is in full compliance with international conventions, and no wilful misconduct caused the spill.
Employment of foreign nationals The Law forbids employment of foreign nationals without a proper work permit.
The Iranian Hostage Crisis is deemed to be the event that has worsened the political and diplomatic relations between the two states.
See also Pahlavi dynasty List of prime ministers of Iran References used The following reference was used for the above writing: 'Alí Rizā Awsatí.
The Armed Forces of Iran are organized into three major forces: Army (or Artesh), IRGC (Sepah) and Police (NAJA).
His paternal grandfather was Ambassador Set Khan Astvatsatourian, and his maternal grandfather was Hakob Hovnatanyan.
Other international responses United Nations In 2009, the United Nations built a seismic monitoring station in Turkmenistan near its border with Iran, to detect tremors from nuclear explosions.
Since then, nicotine products have become even more loosely controlled; Nicorette gum, for instance, is now an over-the-counter drug in the United States and in Finland, readily available in Finland from grocery stores and pharmacies.
History It was successfully tested by Iranian military on February 10, 2014, according to Janes and Reuters.
snapback would be met with the harsh responses described above, and by leveraging support from Russia and China to argue against it.
An anonymous source from the Saudi Royal Family said that Saudi Arabia had automatically intercepted "any suspicious entity" violating its airspace.
Death Meshkini died on 30 July 2007 at 16:30 local time, at Tehran Hospital, of respiratory and kidney failure.
According to the Constitution of Iran, the position is vested in the Supreme Leader of Iran and is held since 1981.
After 1989 the responsibilities of prime minister were divided between the president and first vice president.
At the 2025 SCO Tianjin summit, Xi Jinping announced that an additional ¥10 billion would be provided in loans to the SCO IBC between 2026 and 2029.
In 2017, the militia also coordinated the reconciliation of Nawaf al-Bashir, a prominent al-Baggara tribal leader and former supporter of the Syrian opposition, with the government.
Initially, all the expenses of this organization were provided from the budget of the whole country in the form of aid.
Noor-2 continues to provide the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps with low-resolution overhead imagery.
On 9 June 2009, the singer Mohsen Namjoo was sentenced in absentia to a five-year jail term for ridiculing the Quran in a song.
In 1608, the governor of Lar occupied the island of Qishm, which was the main water supplier of Ormuz.
History and role By 1987, the legislative process as well as the country's long-term policy formation had come to a standstill due to the doctrinal conflict between radical factions of the Islamic Consultative Assembly and the Guardian Council, which officials described as coercive at the time.
In 1970, due to the shortcomings of the existing auditing system, a bill amending some of the legal articles on direct taxes abolished the articles related to certified accountants.
At the same time, anti-government riots spread to Tehran for the first time, where students in Tehran University chanted anti-government slogans before getting dispersed by riot police.
It was first established in 1985 through legislation from the Majlis merging 11 research and cultural organizations.
By 1975, western oil companies complained of the agreement and demanded renegotiation marking the first time in history that oil companies rather than the oil producing nations sought to negotiate an oil contract.
Bahonar's Prime Ministership When Rajai became President on August 4, 1981, he chose Bahonar as his prime minister.
Ramin heads the Society for the Defence of Muslims in the West and the founder of a group called The Cells of the Martyrs of the Velayat (velayat: the conversion of the dogma within Shia Islam).
According to the Reuters, it is the third dimension in Khamenei's power, giving him financial independence from parliament and the national budget, and thus "insulating him from Iran's messy factional infighting".
He was soon afterwards appointed the governor of the Erivan Khanate, where he was given free rein due to Fath-Ali Shah's confidence in him.
During the reign of chief minister Amir Kabir, the Ministry of Finance was established and under his supervision, useful steps were taken to improve the country's economic situation, and new regulations were enacted for the receipt, storage and consumption of wealth in the treasury.
This is less than 0.1% of the world's total, while Iran has approximately 1% of the world's population.
See also Iranian labor law List of major economic laws in Iran Economy of Iran International Rankings of Iran in Economy Tax rates around the world Constitution of Iran Bonyad - Iran's foundations which control 20% of Iran's GDP.
Casualties According to initial reports the missile strike led to the death of 12 people and 50 others injured, party officials stated.
These measures, ostensibly aimed at combating corruption, were intended to appease the revolutionaries.
As culture minister he promoted freedom of the press, saying it helps to prevent the accumulation of "negative anxieties" in society.
Unlike many countries, the ministry is not involved with in-the-field military operational command of the armed forces.
From 1984 to 1989, in Prime Minister Mir Hossein Mousavi's cabinet, Reyshahri served as the inaugural Minister of Intelligence and Security.
Though most frequently remembered for his experiments in the field of industry, his principle activities were in banking and foreign trade.
In March 1995, a coup d'état attempt against President Heydar Aliyev was staged in Baku by paramilitary police chief Rovshan Javadov, Turkish far-right organizations (including the Grey Wolves), and the Azerbaijani opposition.
References See also Nuclear program of Iran Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty Iran and weapons of mass destruction Atomic Energy Organization of Iran
The Scuola Superiore Sant’Anna, an Italian public university, has been running the project since 2009.
See also List of members of Constitutional Amendment Council of Iran List of ayatollahs == References and notes ==
He spent his childhood and adolescence in the oil-rich city of Masjed Soleyman (Irsoleymān) in southwestern Iran.
The Supreme Court of Iran (Persian: دیوان عالی کشور, romanized: Divan-e 'Ali-ye Keshvar) is the highest juridical authority in Iran, established to supervise the correct implementation of laws by courts of justice and consisting of the most prominent judges of the country.
UNIDROIT Convention on Stolen or Illegally Exported Cultural Objects (Rome, 1995) is the international treaty on the subject of cultural property protection.
Hassan Rasouli (Persian: حسن رسولی) was an Iranian reformist politician who was a member of the City Council of Tehran.
Though Atturaya tried to align his efforts with the policies of the Soviet Union, the Soviets opposed his movements on account of his Assyrian nationalism and some of his other policies being opposed to what they viewed as the principles of communism.
Western media and human rights organisations have cited Soltani as an example of the Iranian authorities' handling of detainees during the January 2026 nationwide protests.
Guild unions operate locally in most areas but are limited largely to issuing credentials and licenses.
Afterward, Ibn Hubayra sought to snuff out Ibn al-Muhallab's associates in the province and override the system of tax management established by Salih.
Tehrani claimed that two of three members of the Islamic Republic's leadership, namely Ali Khamenei, Hashemi Rafsanjani, and Mohammad Hosseini Beheshti, had collaborated with Entezam.
Although formally appointed by the president of Iran, the position operates at the intersection of Iran's civilian government, military establishment, and clerical leadership.
It was written by Hassan Pirnia, Hossein Pirnia, Esmail Momtaz od-Dowleh, among others; and granted by Mozaffar ad-Din Shah Qajar as one of his final acts.
Therefore, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps fought against them at the Kamyaran border the previous week.
Later in 1917, the party established cells in various villages in Urmia and Salmas, as well as throughout the Transcaucasus (including Tbilisi and Yerevan) and reached more than two hundred full members.
The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Interbank Consortium (abbreviated as SCO IBC) is a platform for joint financing of development projects by members and other participants of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO).
In 1945, during Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi's reign, Bahār served for a short period as the Minister of Culture and Education in the Cabinet of the then Prime Minister Ahmad Qavam (also known as Qavam os-Saltaneh).
Cyberspace service regulation system act (طرح نظام تنظیم مقررات خدمات فضای مجازی or طرح صیانت از فضای مجازی; Cyberspace protection bill; lit.
Entry cards were issued for the rest of participants and the speeches were made without disruptions.
MOHME is in charge of provision of healthcare services through its network, medical insurance, medical education, supervision and regulation of the healthcare system in the country, policymaking, production and distribution of pharmaceuticals, and research and development.
It also engages a in wide range of humanitarian services in health and rehabilitation, training and research.
Sheikh Zaynolabideen Ghorbani Persian: شیخ زین‌العابدین قربانی, (born 1933) is an Iranian Ayatollah.
Mansur passed the Geneva Convention American Force Protection Act, also known as the highly controversial Capitulation Law.
The SLA began as a split from the Army of Free Lebanon, a Maronite Christian faction within the Lebanese Army.
A bowl at the site was also discovered depicting a bearded man wearing female clothing shown sitting on the floor, a position that was usually reserved for women in the local iconography.
The ministry follows a set of objectives and missions in the transport, urban development and housing sectors.
He was elected as a member of Assembly of Experts for Constitution in Constitutional Convention election.
264 (2023), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the court held that the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act's comprehensive scheme governing claims of sovereign immunity in civil actions against foreign states and their instrumentalities does not cover criminal cases.
Noureddin Alamouti, an ex-member of the Tudeh Party who later entered the inner circle of Ahmad Qavam was appointed as the justice minister while agriculture ministry went to Hassan Arsanjani who was a radical and another protege of Qavam.
He was the former head of the Bonyad-e Mostazafen va Janbazan (Foundation of the Oppressed and Disabled).
Two more Iranian footballers subsequently sought asylum in Australia, bringing the total number to seven.
Kazem Darabi, an Iranian intelligence service employee, was tried and sentenced to life imprisonment by the Berlin Supreme Court.
Members of the cabinet During the nomination process, there were serious tensions between Rajai and Banisadr due to the latter's objections over the candidates.
The Green Salt Project derives its name from uranium tetrafluoride, also known as green salt, an intermediate product in the conversion of uranium ore into uranium hexafluoride — a toxic gas that can undergo enrichment or purification into fuel for nuclear reactors or bombs.
In 1980, Mousavi became foreign minister and made Aghazadeh his deputy in charge of economic relations and finance.
Statistics The table below summarizes selected indicators reported by official and semi-official sources.
Core values include respect for human rights and a democratic state, in particular freedom of expression, freedom of press, an independent judiciary, equal rights for women, ethnic and religious minorities in Iran.
The new building which has survived up to now was mostly constructed in Mansur's time in Tabriz as governor.
The Mamluks of Egypt possibly used it as an alternative title for the atabak al-asakir, the commander-in-chief of the army.
His appointment reflected a deliberate choice by Mozaffar ad-Din Shah Qajar for a figure known for administrative firmness and long experience in provincial governance.
Iranian president Muhammad Khatami, during a visit to Sudan in October 2004, supported Khartoum's controversial handling of the Darfur crisis and signed bilateral cooperation agreements on economic, agricultural, and banking issues.
Hassan Ghafourifard (Persian: حسن غفوری‌فرد; 5 August 1943 – 9 March 2023) was an Iranian academic and conservative politician.
In addition to seminary studies, he did not neglect university education and succeeded in obtaining a doctorate in jurisprudence and Islamic law.
United Nations Security Council Resolution 457, adopted unanimously on 4 December 1979, addressed the ongoing Iran hostage crisis.
Born in Qom to a Shia clerical family, Mirbaqiri took part in the Iranian Revolution of 1979 against Mohammad Reza Pahlavi as a teenager.
National population censuses SCI is the national body in charge of planning, performing and publishing national statistics on population and housing.
Print and publication National Security and Nuclear Diplomacy was first published by the Expediency Council's Center for Strategic Research in 999 pages in fall of 2011, but was introduced and distributed in April 2012.
On 6 May 2022, the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen said on Friday it transported more than 100 freed inmates to Yemen in conjunction with the International Committee of the Red Cross.
Dehumidifier Falak ol-Aflak castle is made with different materials like stone and wood that are vulnerable to humidity.
He then attended Qom Seminary during his time in High School, where he would further his Islamic studies.
He also participated in several other subsequent wars as a soldier in the Iranian military, and played a critical and leading role in the overthrow of Sheikh Khazal.
The Banu'l-Furat (Arabic: بنو الفرات) were a Shia family of civil functionaries of the Abbasid Caliphate in the late 9th and early 10th centuries, several of whom held the office of vizier.
On 25 September 2022, there were angry protests outside the Embassy, mostly by the Iranian diaspora in the United Kingdom, following the death of Mahsa Amini in police custody on 16 September.
In 2010, Iran exported 0.4, 0.25, and 7.77 billion cubic metres of gas to Armenia, Azerbaijan and Turkey respectively.
In the 2021 election, Rezaee was the runner-up to the winner Ebrahim Raisi, who came victorious from the first round, garnering 3.4 million votes, slightly lower than his 2013 tally.
In response, Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Esmaeil Baghaei denied the Australian Government's accusations and vowed a reciprocal diplomatic retaliation.
Funding and legality Sex change surgery is not actually legal under Iranian civil law, although the operations are carried out.
Audio recordings, on media such as cassette tapes, phonograph records, compact discs, or other formats, are also regulated by the ministry.
In May 2021, the Kurdistan Human Rights Association reported that Hazratpour, along with six other prisoners in the Central Prison in Urmia, went on a hunger strike to protest conditions in the prison.
In August 2018, Iran's defense ministry unveiled two new missiles: the Fakour and the "Fateh Mobin" (Bright Conqueror), the latest addition to the Fateh-series of short-range tactical ballistic missiles with a range of about 1,300 kilometers (810 miles).
His tenure drew criticism for replacing civil officials with IRGC personnel and focusing on political advancement.
In July 2013, he was elected as a jurist member of the Guardian Council by the representatives of the Islamic Consultative Assembly for a term of six years, remaining in his position until July 2019.
After being extradited back to Karaj, he confessed to all of the murders in subsequent interrogations.
The following vessels were in commission, planned or under construction for Imperial Iranian Navy in 1979.
This legislative body has been changing and expanding from a 25-member House of Expediency to the present day, which operates under the name of the Islamic Consultative Assembly with 290 members.
Arrest In September, Hajati rose to nationwide prominence after he was arrested for speaking out against the arrests of two citizens of the Baháʼí Faith.
Significance The Iran Freedom Congress is described as one of the most significant efforts to unite the Iranian diaspora and opposition in attempt to create a mutual framework for political transition.
Gholamreza Rezvani (Persian: غلامرضا رضوانی; September 24, 1922 – April 19, 2013) was a member of the Council of Guardians in the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Fatwa Several Shia clerics in Saudi Arabia asked Khamenei to express his view on the incident amidst rising sectarian tensions between Shias and Sunnis.
Gallery See also References This article incorporates text from the Constitution of Iran, which is in the public domain.
Premier of Iran (1904-1906) Eyn-ed-Dowleh's time as Premier of Iran (1904-1906) unfolded during one of the most delicate phases of Qajar rule, when the monarchy faced mounting internal pressures and external financial constraints.
Articles 72-82 continue on to discuss the instructions for dealing with public disputes and inquiries as well as the legal aspects of carrying out justice in regards to law violations.
In 1999, Irsan killed Amjad Hussein Alidam (Arabic: أمجد حسین علي دام), the husband of Nasemah Rachelle Irsan (Arabic: نسيمة راشیل عرسان), Irsan's eldest daughter, at Irsan's residence.
By the royal proclamation of 5 August 1906, Mozaffar ad-Din Shah Qajar created this first constitution "for the peace and tranquility of all the people of Persia".
The number of full-time fighters and Iranian liaison officers apparently decreased in the early 2000s as Hezbollah wound down from the peak of the insurgency.
On 10 May 2022, Iranian Minister of Communication and Information Technology, Issa Zarepour published on his Instagram a low-resolution, true-color, overhead image of the U.S.
A Principlist, Jannati has strong conservative views, such as his anti-LGBTQ rhetoric and opposition to secularism.
Listed companies: 10% tax exemption, companies holding 20% free loat shares are provided 20% tax exemption.
Abdolreza Rahmani Fazli (Persian: عبدالرضا رحمانی فضلی; born 1959) is an Iranian conservative politician who has served as the ambassador of Iran to China in the Government of Masoud Pezeshkian since 21 May 2025.
Reyshahri was then appointed Prosecutor-General of Iran, serving from 1989 to 1991, and also became Chief Prosecutor of the Special Court for the Clergy in 1990.
This gave Germany's creditors a powerful incentive to import German goods, assisting reconstruction.
A loyal National Front member, he served as a member of parliament during the 17th term and ran for the 1954 election in Tehran.
His popularity in Iran has significantly increased following the fall of the Assad regime in Syria, and the perceived inability of his successor, Esmail Qaani, to maintain the same level of effectiveness.
Sufis have been linked to concepts "that downplay forbidding wrong in one way or another" (tolerance, mysticism, introspection), but there is "no mainstream Sufi doctrine rejecting the duty as such", and many Sufis practice it.
The UK’s Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office noted these designations on February 27, 2024, applying travel bans and asset freezes.
March 15, 2006: President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad reaffirms Iran's commitment to developing a domestic nuclear power industry.
Ranks being addressed by the title include: See also Rank insignia of the Iranian military == References ==
Overview On 24 May 1951, the US and UK Departments of Foreign Affairs respectively, informed the Allied Countries involved in the settlement, about a new arrangement regarding Germany's External Debts.
It is the pinnacle of the imperial honours system, limited to the sovereign and those who had performed outstanding acts of patriotism.
However, this information was passed to the local police investigators three years after the assassination and by this time Taslimi had already left Sweden after having been arrested by SÄPO one year earlier on unspecified grounds and secretly deported back to Iran.
Mirza Masoud Ansari Garmrudi (Persian: میرزا مسعود انصاری گرم‌رودی; died 1848) was an Iranian politician who served as the Minister of Foreign Affairs twice (1835–1838 and 1845–1848).
Ali Bahadori Jahromi (born 11 September 1985) is an Iranian jurist and politician who served as the former spokesperson of the Iranian Government and served as head of the Government Information Council from 14 November 2021 to 3 December 2022.
However, there had been no resumption of hostilities until July 7, 2025, when they attacked a Liberian-flagged cargo ship in the Red Sea.
Robert Eatinger, one of the former officials of the CIA, said in this regard about Michael D'Andrea, the head of Iran Mission Center, “He can run a very aggressive program, but very smartly”.
He reportedly was a freshman student of electrical engineering who worked as an electrician in the IRP.
These fighters were likely the last members of Hezbollah, Zanabiyoun, and Fatemiyoun, to have died in Syria before their withdrawal.
During the 2009 post-election protests, in a speech, Pezeshkian criticized the way the protesters were treated.
This Ministry was formed in 2011 by merging the Ministry of Cooperatives, Ministry of Labour and Ministry of Social Welfare.
Hesamoddin Ashna (Persian: حسام‌الدین آشنا; born 18 August 1964 in Tehran) is an Iranian politician.
Attempts by Bazargan to appeal to Khomeini to restrict the courts only led to the courts becoming "stronger and more firmly entrenched".
During the 2011 Libyan civil war, Western intelligence agencies reported Iran's Quds Force stole dozens of Russian-made surface-to-air missiles from Libya and smuggled them across the border into Sudan.
Textron ultimately sent five commercial helicopters to Iran in addition to providing spare parts and training in 1994 to settle the dispute.
The land of the consulate was formerly an abandoned garden called the "Armenian Desert" and was owned by a person named "Haj Ali Akbar Dabbagh".
Their release was purportedly in exchange for the release of $7 billion in frozen Iranian assets; however the United States refuted any connection between releasing the hostages and the frozen assets.
Using the Single Convention as a template, the Commission prepared a draft convention which was forwarded to all UN member states.
It was here he was to announce the Báb's mission to mujtahid Shaykh Muhammad Hasan al-Najafi, a senior member of the Shiʻa clergy.
In 1951, a committee was appointed by the Ministry of Labour to translate various countries' labour laws and the international ILO Conventions into Persian in order to do a comparative study and draft a labour law.
The foreword to the edition said, "Among the Azerbaijani poets Nizami's image gloriously stands out".
Unlike the then stereotypical image of Assyrians as mountain tribesmen, Atturaya's photographs showed him as a slender man with round wire-frame glasses, sometimes posing with his fist on his temple, the stereotypical pose of a "thinker".
During his political career of seventy years, Taqizadeh served as parliamentarian, governor-general of Khorasan province, minister of Roads and Transportation, minister of Finance, and ambassador to the United Kingdom and France.
They know the truth." Execution On 20 June 2010, Iranian and international media reported that Rigi had been hanged in Evin Prison in Tehran.
Early life and education Sadiq Ardashir Larijani was born on 12 March 1963 in Najaf, Iraq, to an Iranian family originating from Larijan, Iran.
Two other important companies, Iran Aviation Industries Organization of the Armed Forces, (also known as the Iranian Armed Forces Aviation Industries Organization (IAFAIO)), and Qods Aviation Industry Company Research Center were formed in the early 1980s.
Although, Möngke appointed him to his former position after his accession in 1252, the Emperor summoned Arghun to answer a charge of treason.
August 10, 2004: Several long-standing charges and questions regarding weapons-grade uranium samples found in Iran are clarified by the IAEA.
The attack, which he survived, is suspected to have connections to Iranian operatives, highlighting Iran's pattern of targeting dissidents abroad.
His university studies continued until he received a doctorate in Islamic mysticism from Azad University (Sciences and Research Branch).
As of May 2025, the group has reportedly joined a military council led by the Islamic Resistance Front in Syria, as an alliance of Assadists who are opposed to the transitional government.
Mohammad Jafar Sahraroudi received minor injuries and was taken to a hospital, questioned and allowed to go.
On 7 September 2022, Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama announced Albania would sever relations with the Islamic Republic of Iran in response to a cyberattack conducted by Iran against the Albanian state.
According to Tasnim, General Ali Koohestani, the head of "the Self-Sufficiency Jihad Organization" of the Islamic Revolution Guards Corps Ground Force, mentioned that Qare'a is an 8-kilogram launcher, applied by technology of soft launching ...
He completed his primary education there and was sent to the fronts with the start of the Iran-Iraq War and participated in the operations of Fath al-Mubin, Muharram and Khyber, where he eventually suffered a leg injury in the Talaiyeh region after the Khyber operation.
January 2007: Both the al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades and the PIJ claim responsibility for a suicide bombing at an Eilat bakery that killed three.
His family has a military history as one brother was killed in the Iran–Iraq War in 1987 and the another still serves in the Quds Force.
On January 4, 2016, Sudan cut off all diplomatic relations with Iran due to tensions between Saudi Arabia and Iran.
The belief that a serial killer was operating in the area was cemented with the discovery of a fourth victim in May, with an autopsy determining that she had suffocated to death.
The Intergovernmental Organisation for International Carriage by Rail (OTIF , from French: Organisation intergouvernementale pour les Transports Internationaux Ferroviaires; OTIF), is an intergovernmental organisation that governs international rail transport.
Instead it is responsible for planning, logistics and funding of the Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran while the General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran, a separate institution under command of the supreme leader of Iran, has control over the forces.
He represented the Iranian government at the World Economic Conference in London in 1933 and was Iran's chargé d'affaires in Bern and deputy head of the Iranian delegation between 1934 and 1938.
While in Syria he was promoted to become the Quds Force’s second-in-command, notably active in the Battle of Aleppo.
Abdullah Ghaderi Azar and Abdul Rahman Ghassemlou were buried on 20 July in Paris at Père Lachaise Cemetery.
Fazel is a full professor at the medical school of National University of Iran (then Shahid Beheshti University).
Among the more important were: Article 1: A warship belonging to peacekeeping forces must have the insignia of one of the five states and be under the command of an officer formally appointed by that government.
Following the targeting of Al Dhafra Air Base and civilian infrastructure by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), the UAE Ministry of Interior began a widespread crackdown on IRGC-linked espionage networks within the country.
Following his alleged involvement in the bombing, in 2007 Razaee was subject to an Interpol Red Notice, marking him internationally wanted for "aggravated murder and damages".
After Mohammad Reza Pahlavi ordered foreign schools to be run by Iranians, she became head of the American Noorbakhsh High School.
International arena To date, the organization has held 18 national skill competitions with the presence of more than 10,000 competitors from all over Iran.
Albuquerque supported the idea of an Iran-Europe alliance against the Ottomans and urged Ismail to send envoys to Lisbon.
The application of hudud crimes differ significantly in Iran from what is prescribed by classical Sharia.
The parliament can force the dismissal of cabinet ministers through no-confidence votes and can impeach the president for misconduct in office.
During the Gulf War, Saddam Hussein attempted to persuade him to work for Iraq but he refused saying "'as long as you are fighting my people I wouldn't come to Iraq.
Mirbaqiri is an expert on Shia jurisprudence and has issued several fatwas (religious verdicts) on various topics.
On 30 December the protests escalated, as three were killed and others wounded in shooting by Revolutionary Guards during night protests in central Iran.
By the early 1970s, South African national teams were excluded from most Olympic sports, although South Africans competed in individual events in some, mainly professional, sports through the 1980s.
Personal life A member of the Davidkhanian family, Mkrtich's father was General Sarkis Khan Davidkhanian.
Goods commonly exported and imported include raw materials such as oil and iron, luxury goods, weapons and defense technologies, etc.
On 23 November 2014, and after months of preparations, he finally managed to gather in over 600 religious scholars from around the world in a conference titled The International Congress on Extremist and Takfiri Movements in the Islamic Scholars' View.
To date, the heads of this institution have been "Gholam-Hossein Haqqani" (who served until 1982) and Ahmad Jannati (currently serving).
He was sentenced to an undisclosed prison sentence on November 22, 2015, but released in prisoner exchange on January 16, 2016.
Iran Air's refueling hub in Belgrade In 2011, Iran Air made scheduled landings in Belgrade for fueling aircraft which had been denied kerosene in airports in the European Union.
These targets include the Zarringhalam brothers, accused of laundering billions via shell companies tied to the IRGC and the Central Bank of Iran.
Under their command Iran's military industry was dramatically expanded, and with the Ministry of Defence pouring capital into the missile industry, Iran soon had an arsenal of missiles.
The council has the authority to veto the bill if it finds it incompatible with sharia or the constitution.
On 20 May 2016, Kurdish groups reported an Iranian military build-up along the Iraqi border, constructing new military forts along its borders with the Kurdistan Region and deploying extra troops to the area.
Therefore, this approach does not mean negation and indifference to the West; emphasis on the East in this case is not the negation of the West.
It would involve improvements to energy efficiency to decrease the energy intensity of the global economy.
From March 1925, according to the law, obtaining identity booklet was required for all Iranian citizens in the areas where the Civil Registry Office was established.
It took place in the aftermath of the Iranian Revolution, which led to the overthrow of the Pahlavi dynasty on 11 February 1979 and the rise of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini as Iran's de facto leader.
Views and alliances Fazli is a conservative politician and long-term associate of Ali Larijani, former parliament speaker.
Candace Strang, a professor at Lone Star who taught the women, stated that, as paraphrased by Malislow in a Houston Press article, Nadia and Nesreen "fought hard to convince their father to let them enroll".
Concurring with the United States' accusations that the same development would contribute to Iran's offensive ballistic missile program, the Foreign Ministry said "The Iranian ballistics program is a major concern for regional and international security.
Shortly thereafter Ala was appointed as Iran's lead diplomat in Washington where he attempted to interest American oil companies to agree to invest in Iran, to undercut the monopoly of the Anglo-Persian Oil Company.
A joint statement by UN experts "strongly condemned the death of 22-year-old Mahsa Amini, who died in police custody".
In May 2025, British authorities arrested five Iranian nationals suspected of plotting an attack on the Israeli embassy in London.
Furthermore, the Tondar is outfitted with anti-ship cruise missiles, providing it with considerable offensive strength.
Leader of the opposition Isaac Herzog criticized Netanyahu's reaction as bad for Israel's relations with the United States, although Herzog also said that Obama was partly to blame for not communicating more closely with Israel.
Heads of State of Iran Timeline See also List of monarchs of Persia List of premiers of Iran (1699–1907) List of prime ministers of Iran List of presidents of Iran Notes References Bibliography External links World Statesmen – Iran
The letter signed by Mozaffar ad-Din Shah Qajar in acceptance of the Constitutional Revolution was written by Qavam, who had the title of Dabir-e Hozoor (Private Secretary) at the time.
It was at this point, according to Sebeos, that Heraclius had agreed to stand down and was about ready to become a client of the Sasanian emperor Khosrow II, allowing the Byzantine Empire to become a client state of the Sasanid Empire, as well as even allow Khosrow II to choose the emperor.
According to the Los Angeles Times Amirli was the first city to successfully resist an ISIS offensive and was secured thanks to an unusual cooperation between Iraqi and Kurdish troops, Iranian-backed Shia militias and US warplanes.
People's Mujahedin of Iran Albania's decision to welcome People's Mujahedin of Iran (MEK) taking refuge in the country led to increased tensions between Albania and Iran.
Employing more than 300 reporters and photographers dispatched in 30 provinces of the country, MNA provides the widest news coverage in Iran.
They returned with training from paramedics Jim Patterson and Max, and established a six-month training course for emergency technicians.
He is professor emeritus of international relations in the School of International Services at American University in Washington, D.C.
History In 1928, the meteorological office was included in the Barzegaran school curriculum, taught by French teachers.
It was not until the second reading in 1996 where the racial denotations were brought to light as crimes against humanity.
The following is a list of grand viziers of Persia (Iran) until 1906, when the office of Prime Minister of Iran was created as a result of the Iranian Constitutional Revolution.
National Library of Iran MS 5229 Ahmad ibn Fadlan References External links Official website (in English and Persian) Online Library
The old "Order of Art" In the Pahlavi period (1925 to 1935), Order of Art was a star-shaped symbol with eight feathers around it and a lion and sun sitting in the center of a circle.
This rule requires all vessels to use all available means to determine if a risk of collision exists.
In the televised address from the city of Mashhad he said, "I am officially announcing that Iran has joined the group of those countries which have nuclear technology".
The group announced their formation on their official Telegram channel where they claimed that their formation is a response against "Israeli occupation’s advance into our lands in southern Syria—specifically in the governorates of Quneitra, Daraa, and the western countryside of Damascus".
Habib (Habibollah) Elghanian (Persian: حبیب (حبیب‌الله) القانیان; 5 April 1912 – 9 May 1979) was a prominent Iranian Jewish businessman and philanthropist who served as the president of the Tehran Jewish Society and acted as the symbolic head of the Iranian Jewish community in the 1970s.
When an Irish parliamentary delegation –including Catherine Connolly– visited Yarmouk Camp in late July 2018 to evaluate the damage caused by the years-long combat, it was accompanied by Saed Abd Al-Aal.
Earlier he participated in the implementation and management of Karkheh and Karun 3 power plant projects, executive management of Iran Water and Power Resources Development Company and served as deputy minister of power in electricity and energy affairs.
A list of recognised universities and institutes of higher education and private institutions is available on the website of the Ministry of Science, Research and Technology.
Grounds for dismissal include an employee's neglect in carrying out his/her duties or violation of disciplinary by-laws of the employer.
Qavam arranged a deal with the Soviets, granting an oil concession in the North contingent on the approval of the Majlis after the elections.
He seems also to have been influenced by at least two reformist thinkers: Fatali Akhundov, whom he got to know well in Tiflis, and Mirza Malkam Khan, whom he met in Istanbul.
After the removal of the Taliban in late 2001 and the establishment of the new western-backed Karzai administration, she returned and participated in the 2002 loya jirga in Kabul.
Post-invasion Iraq Returning to Iraq following the 2003 US-led invasion, the group changed its name from brigade to organization in response to the attempted voluntary disarming of Iraqi militias by the Coalition Provisional Authority.
Cases exist where Iran was supplied with equipment before it was even made standard in the country that developed it (for example the US F-14 Tomcat jet, and the British Chieftain tank).
It administers compulsory and voluntary insurance schemes for employees, wage earners, and segments of the self-employed population.
Hazratpour had external relations with the mayors of Erzurum, Turkey and consul general of Turkey in Urmia.
Construction and commissioning Gardouneh was built by French Constructions Mécaniques de Normandie at Cherbourg, as one of the first six contracted on 19 February 1974.
Majles representatives, including Mehrangiz Dowlatshahi, presented the bill which would later become law.
In February 2010, there was some speculation that Brazil could have been involved in direct bilateral talks to provide Iran with weapons-grade uranium, which was denied by Brazilian Foreign Minister Celso Amorim.
Supreme National Defense University (Persian: دانشگاه و پژوهشگاه عالی دفاع ملی و تحقیقات راهبردی, romanized: Daneshgah-e 'ali-ye Defa'-e Melli va Tahqiqat-e Rahbordi, lit.
In 2016 he published a book entitled The Shah’s Iran - Rise and Fall Conversations with an Insider of which English edition was printed by I.B.
The industry was later expanded in the 1970s in the reign of Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, benefiting from the boosted oil revenues.
A significant number of victims are assumed to be buried in mass graves in Khavaran Cemetery, referred to by state authorities as 'doomed land' southeast of Tehran.
At his insistence, University professors were promoted to the head of the receiving line in procession with the Shah, which sent a message that, while under his leadership, the University and its personnel decisions would not be either influenced or controlled by the government.
Ministerial activities As a minister, Mehrabian traveled the world promoting Iran's commercial interests in friendly countries such as Qatar, Belarus, Egypt and Venezuela.
Its purpose is to cover a variety of political, social, economic, and international subjects along with other fields There are twenty journalists working in this news agency.
It was described to be a means of establishing a new global order aimed towards economic and security-related issues, particularly in developing nations, or the "Global South" according to Xi.
This assessment aims to shed light on the implications of such support and its impact on regional stability.
To avoid becoming part of the Arabs' round-up by the Revolutionary Guards, Nejad went to the Iraqi border and asked the police for asylum.
First offering its news and analysis via the internet, HispanTV is scheduled to expand its satellite broadcasts in early 2012.
In chapter ten, which is titled Distrust and Doubt focuses on international consequences of Iran's decision to launch the Uranium Conversion Facility (UCF).
See also Foreign relations of Iran Foreign relations of Serbia Iran–Yugoslavia relations Yugoslavia and the Non-Aligned Movement == References ==
In the first Summit Declaration (Istanbul, 1997), the main objective of D-8 is stated to be socio-economic development in accordance with the following principles: Peace instead of conflict.
Nasir Subhani (Kurdish: ناسر سوبحانی, Persian: ناصر سبحانی; 14 October 1951 – 17 April 1990 or 19 March 1990) was a Kurdish Sunni scholar from Iranian Kurdistan.
From 1940 to 1946, he attended the Tehran University of Medical Sciences, where he distinguished himself and joined the faculty.
However, he is most notable as the governor-general of Azerbaijan during the Minor Tyranny, where he led the royalist forces against the constitutionalists in the Siege of Tabriz (1908–1909), deliberately causing a widespread famine.
The congress has highlighted the importance of open participation and active public involvement in shaping Iran's future, while aiming to avoid both internal dictatorship and solutions imposed from outside.
He had a foreign policy team independent of the president's, "which include[d] two former foreign ministers", and he could "at any time of his choosing inject himself into the process and 'correct' a flawed policy or decision".
Mohammad Mahdi Mirbaqiri Shahroudi (born 1961) is an Iranian politician and Shia cleric who serves as the head of Qom Academy of Islamic Sciences and is a member of the Assembly of Experts as a representative of Semnan province.
For many Iranians, development had been slow despite the president's promise to restore the economy.
If the condemned struggles after being released, the prison guards will typically pull down on the rope to speed up the death.
Ali Akbar Mehrabian (Persian: علی‌اكبر محرابيان; born 1969) is an Iranian politician who was the former Minister of Energy from 2021 to 2024.
In an interview in November 2019, he referred to the civilian protesters, saying: "We shot them in both the head and the legs, not just the head.
Following the Iraq war against Iran and the adoption of United Nations Security Council Resolution 598, new domestic and foreign policy needs were overshadowed by Iran.
Views In 1988, Rezaee sent a letter to Ayatollah Khomeini, arguing that the Iran–Iraq War could not be won.
This is a list of municipalities in Iran which have standing links to local communities in other countries known as "town twinning" (usually in Europe) or "sister cities" (usually in the rest of the world).
However, Zarif resigned shortly afterwards due to disagreements over the composition of Pezeshkian's cabinet, saying that the latter had failed to fulfill his promises to include more women, young people and ethnic groups.
Khomeini's original fatwa was reconfirmed by the second supreme leader of Iran, Ali Khamenei, and is also supported by many other Iranian clerics.
Outcomes According to a report from the International Monetary Fund, Iran's Gross Official Reserves fell from an average of $70 billion in 2017 to $4 billion in 2020.
However Larijani was critical of too much state involvement in the economy and supported a gradual economic and cultural opening alongside diplomatic engagement.
The claim of his membership in the Basij was made in a statement about his death by the president of the Arts University, though in an earlier report of Jaleh's death the head of public relations for the Student Basij was quoted and made no mention of Jaleh's alleged Basij membership.
According to a former hostage , Rigi never slept in one place for two consecutive nights and did not shake hands with other people without wearing gloves.
Planning to produce documentaries on the industrial, artistic, cultural and civilizational aspects of Iran's historical, artistic and architectural works.
Starting in 2014, foreign investors, who establish production lines in Iran and export 30 percent of their products, will be entitled to tax exemptions (up to 50%).
Mahsa Amini's family planned to perform ceremonies of her death anniversary at her house and also at her grave in Aychi cemetery of Saqqez, but they and people from her birth town were still under pressure from the Iranian government to not perform these ceremonies.
This attention, coupled with the accumulating negative history, caused The Commission on Human Rights to focus increasingly on apartheid, making it a primary concern.
It is manufactured by the Ammunition & Metallurgy Industries Group, part of Iran's Defense Industries Organization.
The site was struck again on 25 February 2021 by the United States military in retaliation for multiple rocket attacks against U.S.
Some members served in the previous cabinet led by Asadollah Alam, and most of them were part of the Iran Novin Party.
According to the same article, a council consisting of the first vice president (or anyone serving as acting president), the speaker of the Parliament and the head of the judiciary must ensure that a new president is elected within fifty days.
It collected witness statements from around 75 people, many of them surviving detainees of Iranian prisons in the 1980s.
The Special Clerical Court can defrock and disbar Islamic jurists, give sentences of imprisonment, corporal punishment, execution, etc.
On 24–28 January 2007, Mohammad Khatami attended the Annual Meeting of the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.
Five years before the deal, in 24's season 8, the negotiations between the United States leaders and "President Hassan" of Islamic republic of Kamistan to abandon his nuclear technology programme was shown, which drew comparison to the US-Iran dispute.
A key figure in the institutionalization of environmental governance in Iran was Eskandar Firouz, who is widely regarded as the architect of the country’s modern environmental system.
In 2010, Iran's exports and imports of natural gas were 8.42 and 6.85 billion cubic metres respectively.
In the same interview, Rigi described himself as "an Iranian" and denied that his goal was to form a separate Baluch state.
The predecessor of OTIF was the Central Office for International Carriage by Rail (OCTI), which was organised in 1893.
Terminated Employee – An employer is under legal obligation to provide thirty (30) days salary for every year of service for employees made redundant or retired; 3.
United Kingdom: On 20 February 2023, the British Foreign Office added the names of three judges, three members of the Revolutionary Guard Corps, and two governors, including Mohammad Karami, to the sanctions list.
Following the assassination of Ali Khamenei, Mirbaqiri's name had been raised as a potential candidate for the position of supreme leader prior to the 2026 election.
Then, in 1619, Portuguese admiral Rui Freire de Andrada was sent to Ormuz with a fleet of five galleons and orders to prevent any other European power trading with Iran and to build a fort on the island of Qishm.
According to Fereshteh Ghazi, the photoshopped passport shown on the Iranian TV is the image of the passport that is easily available on the Wikipedia site, and the photoshoppers did not even bother to change the place of the stamps.
From the twelve original towers, only two remain and these are situated northwest and southwest of the existing fortress.
International Affairs Department (IAD): Oversees cooperation with AEOI counterparts abroad and drafts documents on AEOI policies; maintains a delegation at the IAEA in Vienna, Austria and one in Moscow, Russia.
The President appoints the Secretary of the Supreme National Security Council through an official decree.
troops to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates following the attack on Saudi oil facilities that the United States blamed on Iran.
He then became the executive director of Bonyad Taavon Sepah, which is the IRGC's cooperative foundation.
United Kingdom America's European allies expressed concern that Iran had free access to dangerous weapons.
He held this position until December 1974 when he was replaced by Mohammad Reza Amir Teymour in the post.
The protests, along with the Iran nuclear deal, strained Bahrain's relationship with the United States.
Of course, its details were reviewed by the representatives the day before, Tuesday, December 30, 2008.
He was also a member of the financial committee of Olympic Council of Asia and deputy Head of Physical Education Organization.
Early life and education Elghanian was born in 1912 in Iran and had six brothers, Aghadjan, Davoud, Nourollah (father of Henry Elghanayan), Sion, Ataollah and Nedjatollah.
Until May 2010, NIGEC was under the control of the NIOC, but the Petroleum Ministry transferred NIGEC, incorporating it under NIGC in an attempt to broaden responsibility for new natural gas projects.
After the resignation of Mohammad Rahmati from office as minister of transportation on 18 June 2008, Ahmadinejad assigned Behbahani as his candidate for the ministry to the Parliament.
In February 2025, amidst the Iranian energy and economic crises, Trump signed a national security directive to restore the maximum pressure policy against the Iranian regime.
Those who are actual practicing adherents are much lower, which has led to them generally being excluded from the crescent.
Then in 1951 he migrated back to Qom where he mastered his levels of Islamic Knowledge and eventually reaching the level of Ijtihad to become a Faqīh.
There were debates about which branch of the state should oversee the new institution, and the other options apart from the presidency were the Judiciary system, the Supreme Leader, and Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
Aktau, 2018 - The meeting in 2018 in Aktau, Kazakhstan reached an agreement on the forms of exploitation of the Caspian Sea, and the water and coastal boundaries between the five states.
In the conference, Aliabadi referred to the United States as “Big Satan” and said that American totalitarianism and unilaterism threatens global security.
This procedure is in contrast with the elective nature of a society chairman as suggested by the IFRC.
The musical groups that usually participate in the festival annually are the bands of SCO member states as well as SCO observer states.
IRGC is accused of spreading its ideology in neighboring regions by training and funding "terrorist organizations".
A Turkish security official later claimed Verdanjani's suspected killer had confessed to acting under the orders of two Iranian intelligence officers at the Iranian consulate in Turkey.
In terms of imports, Iran has received 0.35 and 6.5 billion cubic metres from Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan respectively.
Ideology spreading It was alleged that the group was used to convert Syrians to Shia Islam and exploit sectarian division in Syria.
Zarif welcomed the first visit by a foreign leader to Iran since Rouhani assumed the presidency ten days after his approval as Foreign Minister with the arrival of Oman's sultan, Qaboos bin Said Al Said.
The range of the radar is 480 kilometres (300 mi) and it uses two separate channels for detection and is installed on the back of heavy trucks to enhance mobility.
In cases when the shipowner is deemed guilty of fault for an instance of oil pollution, the convention does not cap liability.
Shahriari, the university professor who was assassinated, the officials came to us and reported." In addition, Mesdaghi considers the question and answer related to Shahriari's assassination in the court as another reason for faking the television confession after Shahriari's assassination.
Career He is the former dean of the Management and Economics Faculty of Sharif University of Technology from 2000 until 2011.
In September 2014, he underwent prostate surgery, which state media described as a routine medical procedure.
As Iranians began pouring out into the streets in celebration, the internet blackout was renewed and special forces were deployed in the streets to prevent an uprising.
In 1957, Prime Minister Manouchehr Eghbal appointed him as chairman of the economics council and vice prime minister.
He became a member of scientific staffs of Qom University and taught many courses in theology and comparative philosophy.
Iran has not seen itself obliged to impose the Islamic Revolution through the use of force and influence in the structure of other societies.
The AEOI stated in a social media post that the radiation system data and field surveys do not show any signs of contamination or dangers to the residents near the sites of Fordow, Isfahan and Natanz.
Fashi claimed he had received the training required for this assassination during a trip to Israel and courses under the supervision of Mossad agents.
The Brigade of Abu al-Fadl al-Abbas (Arabic: لواء أبو الفضل العباس, romanized: Liwa Abu al-Fadl al-Abbas), also known as the Kata'ib al-Abbas (Arabic: كتائب العباس, lit.
Fast forward to the Court Order of December 1979, the Court granted interim relief as requested by the United States, however not entirely coincided with the measures requested in the United States' final submission.
Prior to the Vilnius Protocol, the principal objective of OTIF was to develop uniform systems of law which could apply to the carriage of passengers and freight in international rail traffic.
Around the same period, Mirza Masoud married Zia ol-Saltaneh, the seventh daughter of Fath-Ali Shah Qajar (r.
As of 2015 Boroujerdi is in the ninth year of an 11-year prison sentence and despite "multiple health complications, including heart and respiratory problems and kidney stone complications and vision loss from cataracts", is being denied medical care.
Iran transferred these to a Hezbollah subsidiary in Lebanon, but they were defective, so they were likely returned to seller.
Human rights, protests, and Islamic law During his life, Khamenei had stated that human rights were a fundamental principle of Islamic teachings and that this preceded the importance other countries' placed on human rights by centuries.
The documentary Plan Andinia: A New Jewish State ?, by Asela Villar, based on a conspiracy theory, suggests Israel is slowly planning to invade Patagonia.
March 2002: A bomb killed seven people and injured approximately thirty aboard a bus travelling from Tel Aviv to Nazareth.
Draft Convention First resolution on the draft convention The first meeting on the suppression and punishment of the crime of apartheid took place in the 26th session of the General Assembly, 2001st plenary meeting on 6 December 1971.
See also Central Bank of Iran Banking and insurance in Iran Economy of Iran Iran Banking Institute References External links Official website
Etemad wrote a letter to the New Statesman which appeared in the print edition of the 1 December 2008 issue of the magazine, in which he vociferously denied the claim attributed to him by Maziar Bahari: The title "The Shah's plan was to build bombs" is misleading.
During the past four years, the Iranian authorities have reportedly been considering legislation to ban the death penalty for child offenders.
He is also secretary general of Islamic Society of Engineers and the Front of Followers of the Line of the Imam and the Leader.
Since then, he organized the Free Palestine Movement as community organization which provided social services for Palestinians in Syria and rallied support for the Baa'athist government.
his memory of his father) urging him to be courageous and offered advice on outsmarting the interrogator.
As of 2019 it broadcasts via satellite on Galaxy 19 97°W (for North America), Hot Bird 13°E (for Europe), Badr 5 26°E (for Iran & Central/South/West Asia).
This military escalation during the 2026 Iran war effectively terminated the "cautious de-escalation" policy previously pursued by Abu Dhabi.
After the death of Sadeq Ehsanbakhsh, Ghorbani was appointed by Ali Khamenei to br the Imam of Friday Prayer in Rasht.
In April 2021, a sabotage attack struck the Natanz enrichment plant, causing an electrical blackout and damaging centrifuges.
Sudan and Iran severed diplomatic ties in the 2010s due to their opposing sides in the Iran–Saudi Arabia proxy conflict, but restored them as Iran supported Sudanese armed forces in the civil war.
Later, during the same week, the US military launched a missile strike against Kata'ib Hezbollah in Iraq, which led to the killing of militiamen, a civilian present at the base, along with five Iraqi servicemen.
The 15 Khordad Foundation has implemented various measures to enhance health and increase access to healthcare services.
In February 2020 a letter was published on social media about his resignation which was declined, subsequently.
Mirza Yousef Ashtiani supported artists and politicians in addition to assassinating and suppressing many of his opponents.
In 2004, an independent film, Circumstances (2011) was released, directed by Maryam Keshavarz, that examined the changing mores of Iranian youth when it comes to sex and dating.
They estimated that 120,000 Toman worth of jewelry, luxurious clothing, gold, silver, and other precious items were provided.
Many of Makan's elite units were shortly killed, while he himself was shot in the head by an arrow, and then beheaded by the victorious Samanid soldiers, who sent his head, along with many captured high-ranking Daylamite officers, to the Samanid court in Bukhara.
It also says Arghun conducted the empire-wide census in Russia, Arctic, Alania, Pontic steppe, Georgia, Armenia, and Anatolia.
Despite the cabinet's stated purpose, only six of the appointed ministers were military officers, and this number was further reduced in the following weeks.
After spending time in studying elementary and secondary schools in Najafabad, He moved to Tehran for higher education and was graduated from University of Tehran.
Abbas Aliabadi (Persian: عباس علی‌آبادی; born 1962) is a military officer, university professor and a politician who holds the position of Minister of Energy since 2024.
Halfway around the pond, Iskandar stopped walking, and Reza Khan put his arm around the older general's shoulder, and continued to walk.
The Islamic Republic of Iran Armed Forces, also known as the Iranian Armed Forces, include the regular armed forces (Artesh), the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (Sepah) and the Police Command (Faraja).
The ASMERC research institute started with the aim of conducting studies and researches related to meteorological science in 1989 and is headquartered in Tehran, Iran.
Since then, the National Geoscience Database of Iran's structure became more independent and thematic development of its databases in the fields of Geology, Geography, Mining, Risk, etc.
On the other hand, Khomeini repeatedly argued that the only way to eliminate corruption was through a revolution.
Mohsen Haji-Mirzaei has been Head of President's Office since 2024 under President Masoud Pezeshkian.
In 1990, a Kurdish refugee woman in Sweden named Efat Ghazi was killed in a similar attack through letter bombing in her apartment in Västerås.
The foreign ministers or deputy foreign ministers of Pakistan, China, Iran, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan attended the meeting.
Iradj Fazel (Persian: ایرج فاضل, romanized: Īraj Fāżel; born 24 April 1939) is a prominent Iranian surgeon and academic.
An analysis in Iran International argued that the fact that students conducted a walkout from high schools throughout the country in mid-February shows that members of Gen Z have not given up despite the attempts to suppress the protests with extensive force.
Being too late, Hossein Qoli instead marched towards Shirvan, where he attempted to thwart the attempt of its khan Mostafa Khan to cooperate with the Russians.
On 1 May 2018 the IAEA reiterated its 2015 report, saying it had found no credible evidence of nuclear weapons activity in Iran after 2009.
At the time of Sulayman's appointment, the head of the tax administration in Syria was Sarjun ibn Mansur al-Rumi, a native Melkite Christian who served under caliphs Mu'awiya I (r.
In August 2018, IAIO unveiled the Kowsar (or Kosar) jet trainer and strike aircraft ahead of its maiden flight.
Estimates Sources There are multiple sources estimating the military expenditure of Iran, however differences exist between the numbers.
He served as chief of staff of the Revolutionary Guard from late 1987 to 1989 and later as Minister of Defence and Armed Forces Logistics of Iran.
From there, he preached against the Islamic Republic and its rulers, in broadcasts by Baghdad's Farsi-speaking radio and television.
Again, the burden of proof is on the possessor to demonstrate that he/she "neither knew nor ought reasonably to have known at the time of acquisition that the object had been illegally exported" (Art.
Administered by the Ministry of Health and Medical Education and the Medical Council of Iran, CME programs are routinely running in all IRIMC branches across the country.
Upon the completion of his education, Reza-Qoli Khan entered the service of Hossein Ali Mirza son of Fath Ali Shah and governor of Shiraz.
The minimum age for workers in Iran is 15 years, but large sectors of the economy (including small businesses, agricultural concerns, and family-owned enterprises) are exempted.
The Iran-Pakistan Barrier, presently being constructed consists of a three-foot thick concrete wall (approximately 0.91 meters) that stands ten feet high (around 3.05 meters).
Omid Barak (1986 – 7 February 2011), known as The Highway Killer (Persian: قاتل بزرگراه), was an Iranian serial killer who strangled ten women from 2006 to 2008.
After obtaining his diploma in school in his hometown, he went to Mashhad to attend the Hawza there.
Khalil Rostamkhani, a journalist with the Daily News and Iran Echo and director of a translation company, was sentenced to nine years in prison.
The series consists of: Zelzal-1, with an estimated range of 150 km (93 mi) Zelzal-2, with an estimated range of 210 km (130 mi) Zelzal-3, with an estimated range of 200 km (120 mi) These rockets were developed by Hassan Tehrani Moghaddam following development the Shahab-1 and Shahab-2.
Also on June 2, Lieutenant General Morteza Yazdanpanah [who had also headed the original Shah's Inspection from 1958 to 1962] was appointed head of the new Inspection Organization.
Among those who received this award is Sorena Sattari, the son of Mansour Sattari, former commander of the Islamic Republic of Iran Air Force, for designing the HESA Azarakhsh jet fighter aircraft.
If ratification of the Consultative Assembly is not confirmed by the Guardian Council (and deputies insist on implementing the ratification), the EDC can intervene to make a decision.
In April 2024, Argentina's criminal court (Court of Cassation) ruled that the attack had been planned by Iran, and carried out by the Iran-backed organization Hezbollah.
Due to concerns regarding public safety and urban planning, Shiraz City Council has proposed relocating Adelabad Prison outside the city.
Iran's Press TV quoted Hajizadeh as saying the Revolutionary Guards will "continue missile tests ...
Works Iran's Economy (1996) Underdevelopment dilemma in Economy of Iran (1998) Industrial development experience in the world (2012) == References ==
History In early 20th century, a series of protests forced Mozaffar ed-Din Shah Qajar to agree to the limiting of his powers which were previously absolute and adopt a more constitutional form of governance.
As the rest of the clergy governed affairs on a daily basis, the supreme leader is capable of mandating a new decision as per the concept of Vilayat-e Faqih.
Sanctions United States of America: In 2020 on charges of human rights violations and responsibility for shooting at protesters during the November 2019 protests.
Furthermore, in several parts of the country, subsidies have been suspended on the pretext of insufficient government funds.
Following the Iranian Revolution, elaborating on the revolution's stances and the ideals of the Islamic Republic system were put high on the radio's agenda.
One of the suspects was Mohamed Magaby, whom the Kurdish protesters in Vienna requested to be arrested and be put under travel ban.
In 1921, during the coup d'état of Tehran against the Qajar government, Tabatabaee ordered Colonel Pessian to arrest many of the opposition, among them Ahmad Qavam.
Finally, the government got the approval of Ayatollah Khomeini to make it a ministry, but a restriction was added to the requirements of the minister: that he must be a doctor of Islam.
Mohammad Hazratpour (Persian: محمد حضرت‌ پور, born 1982 in Urmia, West Azerbaijan province, Iran) is an Iranian politician and the forty-first mayor of Urmia.
We need you"), but not worried about running afoul of the Islamic regime as (he thinks) he has all the necessary accreditations and has taken all the recommended precautions to avoid trouble.
In January 2020, following the death of Qasem Soleimani, the Iranian government lashed out at Albania for hosting MEK members, and Iran has increased cyberattacks and agent hunting on Iranian dissidents against Albania.
The UN General Assembly adopted the International Convention against Apartheid in Sports on 10 December 1985.
In 2023, the federal government in Australia issued Magnitsky-style financial sanctions and travel bans against 14 individuals and 14 Iranian entities, including four members of the Basij morality police, who were "responsible for egregious human rights abuses and violations in Iran".
Given the success of cooperation with the countries of the Eastern sphere, the policy as a special strategy used by Iranian presidents Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, Mohammad Khatami, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and Hassan Rouhani.
The air defense base is due to be built at the cost of $300 million and will have 6,000 personnel available for a large array of duties, including educational ones.
Abu'l-Hasan Ali ibn Muhammad ibn Musa ibn al-Hasan ibn al-Furat (855–924), originally deputy of his brother Ahmad, vizier in 908–912, 917–918 and 923–924.
Mohammad Hossein Ghorbani is also his nephew, who is a representative of Astaneh-ye Ashrafiyeh in the Islamic Consultative Assembly.
Amanollah Alimoradi (born 1963) is a Shia mujtahid, professor of seminary and university, president of the Rafsanjan Islamic Azad University, and a member of the Assembly of Experts from Kerman Province.
It administrates Iranian skilled labor recruitment out of the country in other states such as Qatar, Oman, Armenia, and Iraq.
He is described close to the Executives of Construction Party and the Moderation and Development Party, in terms of political bent.
After expressing concern at the level of tensions between Iran and the United States as a potential threat to international security, the Council called on Iran to immediately release hostages held at the American embassy in Tehran and allow them to leave the country.
Ahmad Moballeghi is professor of Qom Seminary at Kharij level, member of Assembly of Experts and the president of the Majlis Islamic Studies Center in Qom.
Activities Militant activities The Palestinian Islamic Jihad pledges that armed resistance will continue as long as Israel maintains the occupation and conducts military operations against Palestinians.
The AEOI did not have to report its expenditure to the government instead a single report was submitted to the treasury at the end of every year.
1973 Sale and Purchase Agreement In the early 1970s, the shah said that if the Consortium refused to overhaul the terms of the 1954 Agreement, it would not be extended at the end of the twenty-five-year period by 1979.
(Published in Arabic) The Fiqh and Fundamental Views of Sheikh Bahai (Published in Arabic) An Introduction to the Book, "Sarr al-Sa'ada" (The Secret of Happiness) (Published in Arabic) Death Ayatollah Mahdi Rohani died on Thursday, 23 November 2000 in Qom.
Muhammad Derekhshesh who was as a leader of teacher's trade union drew support from both the Tudeh and the National Front, became the education minister.
Irsan's lawyers stated that he had no connection to either murder and the circumstances of the murders were not known.
Ayatollah Mohammad Feyz Sarabi (Persian: محمد فیض سرابی; 23 August 1928 – 11 April 2022) was an Iranian Shiite cleric and politician.
The center has the responsibility to gather all the personnel and analysts related to operations about Iran from other parts of the CIA organization.
The post-revolution sanctions and the Iran–Iraq War had a dramatic effect on Iran's inventory of Western equipment.
The Ministry of Health and Medical Education quickly issued a statement following the unveiling, clarifying that the ministry had not issued a license for the device.
The government's response to the protests has largely been condemned, and the United States Department of the Treasury has sanctioned the Guidance Patrol and several high-ranking Iranian officials.
The steering committee started having regular meetings in October 2007 and was led by John Cooper QC, Sir Geoffrey Nice, Kader Asmal and Richard Falk.
Iran and Serbia maintain diplomatic relations established between Iran and Kingdom of Yugoslavia in 1937.
Mirbaqiri is considered a high-ranking Ayatollah and part of the clerical establishment within the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Iraq During the rule of Saddam Hussein, Jordan maintained a "special status" with Iraq as it relied on Iraqi oil.
Initially, it was not a training unit but a combat unit, and it was later converted into a training center.
From 1972 the men's event was part of the Grand Prix circuit (since 1990 the ATP Tour) awarding world ranking points.
If a person commits serious crimes "against the state", such as espionage, treason, activism, "terrorism", and such, they could receive the death penalty for "moharebeh" and "mofsede-fel-arz".
He has a BSc degree of agriculture from Urmia University, MSc of Physiology-Biochemistry from University of Nebraska–Lincoln, and PhD in agricultural physiology from Iowa State University.
Set Khan's involvement with this foundational phase of the modernization of the Persian army would initiate a century of his own and his descendants’ leading role in the process.
Germany continued to pay the fixed amount, a smaller and smaller relative burden on the treasury with each year, until the last payment was settled in 1983.
Larijani's resignation from the secretary position was accepted on 20 October 2007 after President Ahmadinejad turned down his previous resignations.
2019-2021 Military tensions between Iran and the United States escalated in 2019 amid a series of confrontations involving the US, Iran, and Saudi Arabia.
Allegations by the Australian government On 26 August 2025, Prime Minister Anthony Albanese held a joint press conference with Foreign Minister Penny Wong, ASIO director Mike Burgess, and Home Affairs Minister Tony Burke.
Saudi Arabia together with the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Egypt and Bahrain, restored bilateral relations with Qatar on 5 January 2021.
State parties While the convention has been widely adopted, notable exceptions include Bolivia and Honduras — which are generally flag of convenience states—have not ratified the treaty.
The MODAFL is also the major player in the defence industry of Iran, with multiple conglomerates and subordinates active in research and development, maintenance and manufacturing of military equipment.
During the Safavid dynasty, foreign trade and customs revenue were added to taxes and expanded further during the Afsharid dynasty period.
Unbalanced theories In total, three theories about The policy of exporting the Islamic Revolution have been proposed by Iranian thinkers and officials after the presentation of this theory by Khomeini.
A street protest was held in Abdanan on 16 February, while during the 17 February protests in Abdanan, security forces reportedly fired on mourners.
Tunisia was one of few Arab countries to express condolences over the 2017 Tehran attacks, and both two countries expressed that there would be no limit on increased cooperation between the two nations.
He also represented the people in Gilan for the Iranian Parliament from 1984 to 1988, as well as representing them in the Assembly of Experts from 1990 to 2024.
Ground Forces Air Force Navy Air Defense Force Other organizations of the Army IRGC (Sepah) Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps has five major branches: Ground Force, Aerospace Force, Navy, Quds Force and Basij.
9th round 11 November 2014 Muscat The round of talks took place on 11 November in the Omani capital Muscat and lasted one hour.
Currently, the second Brigadier General Ali Karimi is in command of the 16th Armoured Division of Qazvin.
Analysis The Intercept reported that American forces "did most of the heavy lifting responding to Iran’s retaliation for the attack on its embassy in Damascus", shooting down more drones and missiles than Israel.
Makarem described the current Iranian inclination toward dogs as "blindly imitating the West"; something that he believes will result in "evil outcomes." Iran's Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance reacted to this fatwa by banning all advertisements for keeping, buying, and selling pets.
At a public demonstration the following day attended by more than 8,000 Tudeh Party members and National Front supporters, Fadayan-e Islam distributed leaflets carrying a threat to assassinate the Shah and other government officials if the assassin, Tahmasebi, was not set free immediately.
The council condemned the Nobel Prize Committee for awarding the Nobel Peace Prize to Narges Mohamamadi in 2023, alleging that she is a criminal.
Background Ebrahimiyan's career includes roles such as a judiciary judge, the head of branches in the Public Court, and advisory positions.
Mechanism of Operation The water mafia comprises government officials, military commanders, construction contractors, and consulting companies who work together to push private interests through state-funded projects.
On 29 January 2017, Iran tested the medium-range Khorramshahr ballistic missile that flew 600 miles before exploding, in a failed test of a reentry vehicle.
Unlike the executive in other countries, the president of Iran does not have full control over the government, which is ultimately under the direct control of the supreme leader.
Muslim and Palestinian militias retaliated with force, increasing the total death count to between 200 and 600 civilians and militiamen.
Inability The supreme leader has the power to dismiss the elected president if he has either been impeached by Parliament or found guilty of a constitutional violation by the Supreme Court.
Under this procedure, A Party must inform other Parties through the Biosafety Clearing-House, within 15 days, of its decision regarding domestic use of LMOs that may be subject to transboundary movement.
The 1973 United Nations International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid was the first binding international treaty which declared the crime of apartheid and racial segregation under international law.
The Shah later tried to subdue and eliminate the Majles with military and political support from Russia and Britain.
Executive Responsibilities Tabriz Air Defense Friday prayer leader of Ahar County See also List of members in the Fifth Term of the Council of Experts == References ==
It is also known as the Shiraz Regional Library of Sciences and Technology (SRLST) Before the Internet was established in Iran, RICeST fulfilled its objectives by setting up a Bulletin Board Service to allow electronic access to the information sources it was collating.
Termination of employment contract The Law allows for termination of the employment contract only under the following instances: 1.
The Swedes also conducted several expeditions throughout Persia, such as the Boroudjerd expedition and the Shiraz expedition.
Abdolhossein Behnia, ?-1948 Abbasqoli Golshayan, 1948–1950 Abdolhossein Behnia, 1950 Mohammad Ali Varasteh, 1950 Taghi Nasr, 1950-?
All male and female citizens from the age of 18 on up may vote for candidates approved by the Council of Guardians which had veto power over who can run for parliament (the Islamic Consultative Assembly) and whether its bills can become law.
Biography Tarbiat was born in 1906 in Constantinople, where her father Hossein Gholi Tarbiat worked in the Persian embassy.
In 2011, it was announced that Ministry of Industries and Mines would be merged with the Ministry of Commerce, and Mehrabian would leave the cabinet afterward.
Recently, Bahman Group planned further exports of motor vehicles to Afghanistan, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Syria, Yemen, Cuba, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Venezuela, post-Soviet countries, Africa.
The foundation, which was one of his main wealth sources alongside estates left by Reza Shah and Iran's oil revenue, was a tax haven for his holdings.
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin asked Israel to give the United States advance notice if they planned to attack Iran.
Infantry gear Infantry weapons Firearms Explosives Vehicles Combat vehicles Non-combat vehicles Artillery Missiles This refers to ballistic missiles and not battlefield systems.
As a result, the highly debated shift to a military government was, in practice, more cosmetic than substantive.
The group also maintained offices in the cities of Damascus and Aleppo as well as the countrysides of Damascus Governorate and Aleppo Governorate.
In reality, all banks are charging their borrowers a fixed pre-set amount at a rate of interest that is approved by the Central Bank at least once a year.
The 41st Tharallah Division (also spelled Sarallah) (Persian: لشکر 41 ثارالله) was a division of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps from 1980 until it was merged into the Sarallah Corps of Kerman Province in 2008.
Satellite imagery taken by ImageSat International in late 2019 suggests a tunnel system is being built, which Western intelligence sources believe will hold missiles.
The Agreement covered loans arising from external investments due to the Dawes Plan, and loans from economic aid to Germany.
Latvia: The Minister of Foreign Affairs of Latvia, Edgars Rinkēvičs, on behalf of Latvia, offered deepest condolences to Iran in relation to the attacks on the Iranian parliament and the Mausoleum of Ayatollah Khomeini in Tehran on 7 June 2017.
See also National mapping agency National Geographical Organization of Iran References External links Media related to National Cartographic Center of Iran at Wikimedia Commons
The council had 30 members and 12 committees each with 5 members, with each member able to chair up to two.
Composition Though Amini was considered a "maverick aristocrat" and "too independent of the personal control of the monarch", appointment of ministers of foreign affairs, war, the interior was made at the behest of the Shah.
Despite substantial government investment, SADRA largely failed to fulfill its maritime contracts, serving instead as a conduit for absorbing state subsidies and securing lucrative no-bid military contracts.
See also Bavar 2 SR.N6 British Hovercraft Corporation BH.7 References Farsnews Iran Unveils Home Made Missile Launching Hovercraft Iran's Missile Equipped Hovercraft
Mohammad Shah Qajar instructed him to remain at the court and in 1841 selected him as tutor to his son Prince Abbas Mirza Molk Ara.
Inspired by March Intifada, an uprising that broke out in Bahrain in March 1965, there was an idea for electing a leadership for the Coalition with specified seats for Shias, Sunnis, men and women.
In the ninth chapter, New Hopes, criticizes Europeans during negotiations and also explains Iran's initiative for offering a four-stage plan for industrial-level enrichment.
The purpose of this procedure is to ensure that importing countries have both the opportunity and the capacity to assess risks that may be associated with the LMO before agreeing to its import.
Mojdehi assumed the role of Chancellor at University of Mashhad (Persian: دانشگاه فردوسی مشهد), the largest research university in Eastern Iran.
Some of Ruhollah Khomeini's statements have been cited as evidence of the validity of the theory of "Umm al-Qura".
This alarmed the United States Congress, which strengthened a 1968 law on arms exports in 1976 and renamed it the Arms Export Control Act.
They are of the opinion that Taqizadeh was a supporter of the Iranian constitution and that during World War I, he allied with Germany to oppose the Anglo-Russian influence which was aimed at undermining Iran's independence.
Maurice, and in the last meeting, presented the Shah with a treaty containing the terms and conditions, which is known as the St.
Fox News reported on 4 September 2019 that a "classified Iranian project", the Imam Ali military base, was being constructed near Abu Kamal, which was confirmed by satellite images.
This ragtag coalition has often been referred to as left-wing, but many participants were actually very conservative and had religious elements that did not share any broader ideological agenda.
According to The Times of Israel, Israel's capability of taking direct and comprehensive strategic action solely on its own initiative was henceforth constrained, and furthermore the calculus of deterrence throughout the region has been changed.
Burns and Jake Sullivan, national security adviser to Vice President Joe Biden, were present for the Geneva talks but were not announced.
Design The Nasr is a locally produced variant of the Russian OSV-96 anti-materiel rifle, also chambered in 12.7x108mm.
In return, the Iranian foreign ministry received a Sudanese ambassador in the capital city of Tehran.
He returned to Tabriz in October 1905, and moved to Tehran in September 1906, where he published articles in Neda-ye Vatan (Voice of Nation).
Arghun had many political enemies at the headquarters, so he had to visit the ordo of the Qaghan in Mongolia often to prove his loyalty.
It eliminated the need for the Supreme Leader (rahbar) of the country to be a marja or chosen by popular acclaim, it eliminated the post of prime minister, and it created a Supreme National Security Council.
After a successful career in the Iranian foreign service, serving in Tiflis, Hosein Khan was made ambassador to Constantinople during the great Ottoman reform period after 1856.
According to Strabo's Geography, he settled them at Charax, a fort between Ray (Rhagae) and the Caspian Gates pass, the main communication route with the east.
Sanctions Related to Iranian Nuclear-Related Research with Potential Military Applications Organization of Defensive Innovation and Research - IFMAT Iran Organisation of Defensive Innovation and Research IDF: Headquarters of Iran
The Mehr News Agency (MNA; Persian: خبرگزاری مهر, romanized: Xabâr-gozâri Mehr) is a semi-official news agency sponsored by the government of Iran.
See also Shah (surname) Ikhshid Mirmiran References External links Last name: Shah at surnamedb.com WorldStatesmen – here Iran; see each present country Shah – Etymology OnLine
Career Fattah was appointed energy minister in 2005 and approved by the Majlis with 194 votes in favor.
Arab troops from Basra and Kufa were settled in garrison towns such as Merv, Nishapur, and Balkh, forming a semi-permanent military population.
This practice of identifying transgender individuals put them at risk of physical abuse and discrimination.
Earlier in 1996, he issued a fatwa stating, "The promotion of music [both traditional and Western] in schools is contrary to the goals and teachings of Islam, regardless of age and level of study".
According to Iran Wire, Arafi is a "prominent hardline cleric" and is widely considered a "staunch loyalist to the core ideology of the Islamic Republic." Arafi is the clerical representative of the council, unlike the other members of the Interim Leadership Council.
In November 2008 when Sadr created the Promised Day Brigade to succeed the Mahdi Army, he asked AAH (and other Special Groups) to join, but they declined.
The division has participated in various operations of Iran–Iraq War, including Operation Beit ol-Moqaddas.
5- An evaluation is required to analyze the extent of America's financial, weapons, and intelligence support towards violent and terrorist groups in the Middle East, such as ISIS, Jabhat al-Nusra, and the group of hypocrites.
1911–1914 The gendarmes were put in charge of patrolling around 1,700 kilometers of road and steadily grew in number.
Book Five of the Islamic Penal Code ("the only part of the Penal Code that has been adopted permanently and is not subject to experimental periods") passed on 22 May 1996.
Additional information is available at the article Air Force of the Army of the Guardians of the Islamic Revolution, which force operates Iran's long-range missiles.
Resurgence: Post-massacre After the purge and persecution of medical staff during the 2025–2026 Iranian protests and the 2026 Iran massacres, a new network of Iranian doctors, nurses, paramedics and volunteers was formed to provide safe medical relief.
The commander of IRFS claimed that the group's formation was spurred by the "ongoing attempts at division, starvation, displacement, arrests, and systematic killings" during the Israeli invasion of Syria.
Large Shia minorities exist in Lebanon, Kuwait, Yemen, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Afghanistan, Pakistan, India and to a lesser extent, UAE.
Although Iran and Saudi Arabia agreed in 2015 to participate in peace talks in Vienna in participation with United States Secretary of State John Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, the talks ultimately failed.
Ashna was a key figure in Rouhani presidential campaign (2013) and was appointed by Rouhani as his "cultural adviser" in October 2013 and as his "advisor" in August 2017.
(Organization for Collection and Sale of State-owned Properties of Iran) is to regulate properties, some of the duties includes the collection, storage, management, and sale of properties that as per the law are under the ownership, possession, custody or management of the government of Iran.
See also Pahlavi dynasty List of prime ministers of Iran References The following reference was used for the above writing: 'Alí Rizā Awsatí, Iran in the Past Three Centuries (Irān dar Se Qarn-e Goz̲ashteh), Volumes 1 and 2 (Paktāb Publishing, Tehran, Iran, 2003).
His tenure as head of the foundation began on December 3, 2004, and was renewed for another five years on December 2, 2009.
By 2021, the hashtag #freepalestine became increasingly popular in social media; the hashtag along with the slogan "Free Palestine" were used by activists as a "standalone phrase, not connected to any one movement or institution".
With the exceptions of the Russian and British militaries, the Qajar army of the time was unquestionably the most powerful in the region.
Shabestari's blasphemy was to say in a speech: "If in a society the three concepts of God, power, and authority are mixed up, a political-religious despotism will find strong roots ...
Israel Entry and transit is refused for citizens of Israel, even if not leaving the aircraft and proceeding by the same flight.
The Tondar can depart from any location briefly to launch its diverse arsenal, including anti-ship cruise missiles, before reverting to stealth mode.
For the first several months of his residence there, he decided to attempt to live a normal life for the sake of his wife, but eventually returned to his old habits because killing made him "feel calm".
According to extant information, Tabrizi worked as a civil servant in 1846 in the Khorasan Province in the northeastern part of the country, and in 1853-58 he functioned as an interpreter and instructor in French at the Dar ul-Funun School.
As with the CLC, the United States of America was a driver behind the BUNKER convention, and had legislation in place similar to BUNKER provisions, the Oil Pollution Act of 1990, hence it claimed, the treaty did not need to be signed.
He had been arrested 84 days prior, during the 2025–2026 Iranian protests for allegedly setting a Basij base on fire.
'Flag') is a Sina-class fast attack craft serving in the Northern Fleet of the Islamic Republic of Iran Navy.
For the first time, project financing schemes such as buy back agreements and BOT projects (only under an operator status) are specifically covered under the foreign investment law.
He noted, "this agreement was one of the most technically informed diplomatic negotiations I have seen," with both sides advised by "world-class nuclear scientists": U.S.
A video and photo of an unidentified protester went viral, who defiantly sat in the middle of the Jomhuri Eslami Street at Tehran and refused to move for motorbike security forces, but later was beaten and forced to leave.
It replaced the first government of Alam which ended on 18 February when he submitted his resignation to the Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi.
In early 1975, a delegation of Iranian physicians visited Texas, USA, to study American EMS systems.
He attended Clausthal University of Technology and Karlsruhe Institute of Technology in Germany, studying Mechanical Engineering and Process Engineering.
Hazratpour was arrested in January 2019, and officially resigned from the position of mayor on January 31 of that year.
Grand Ayatollah Jafar Sobhani (Persian: جعفر سبحانی; born 9 April 1929) is an Iranian Twelver Shia marja, influential theologian and writer.
It is a clandestine military nuclear programme." In January 2007, former French President Jacques Chirac, speaking "off the record" to reporters from The New York Times, indicated that if Iran possessed a nuclear weapon, the weapon could not be used.
US National Security Council spokeswoman Bernadette Meehan said that this is because the EU is not making the document public." The White House released a summary of technical understandings related to the implementation of the agreement on 16 January.
Many ultra- or neo-Principlists are laymen representing the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) collectively.
The book "Bemo" and recent memoirs of commanders and notables of the war, such as "Chezabeh", "Battle of Draluk", "Bordering on Fire", "Moonless Nights" and "The Man Who Didn't Dream", and more recently the books "Category One", "The Lonely Roads of War" and "I Wrote to Last" are among them.
CIA announces new China Mission Center, folds Iran and North Korea centers Have You Heard of the CIA’s Iran Mission Center?
The Draft Code of Crimes against the Peace and Security of Mankind recognizes apartheid as a crime on the basis of institutionalized racial discrimination as a species of crimes against humanity.
After the Iranian Revolution of 1979 and the confiscation of companies owned by some capitalists, laws were passed in the Revolutionary Council, based on which many profitable and non-profit companies and institutions were nationalized and placed under government management.
As part of his activity he is the executive director of the Iran Freedom Congress - a civic initiative established in early 2026.
Influence Zanjani was influenced by Mir Asadollah Madani, Imam Khomeini, Seyyed Hossein Borujerdi, and Mohaghegh Damad.
Prior to the revolution, observant Shia Muslims selected their own leading faqih to emulate (known as a Marja'-i taqlid) according to their own decision making.
Proposed Ministry of Commerce Disbanded Ministry of Industries and Mines Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Ministry of Revolutionary Guards Ministry of Welfare and Social Security == References ==
The elders of Baghdad participated in his funeral ceremony and his body was buried in the western side of Baghdad near the tomb of Ahmad ibn Hanbal.
Mehdi Bamdad (Persian: مهدی بامداد; died 1973) was an Iranian civil servant who is principally known as the author of the Sharh-e hal-e rejal-e Iran dar qorun-e 12 va 13 va 14 hejri ("Biographies of [notable] personages of Iran in the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries").
Mohammad Jahromi (born 1958) is a former Iranian governor and politician who served as minister of labor and social affairs from 2005 to 2009.
Department of the Treasury, Zahedi served as a liaison to Hizballah and Syrian intelligence services as well as taking part in weapon deals involving Hizballah.
The speaker of the parliament is in charge of running the parliament, and if he is not present at the meeting, the first and second vice-chairmen are in charge of this position, respectively.
Palestinian cause in the legal documents of the Islamic Council The Research Center of the Islamic Council has issued a statement declaring that the "imminent downfall of the Zionist regime" necessitates our attention towards formulating a development plan for Palestine.
As such, he was an influential force in changing the leadership of the judiciary from a triumvirate, the Supreme Judicial Council, to an individual in 1989.
intelligence officer, on the other hand, Rigi was captured by Pakistani officials and delivered to Iran with U.S.
The group of 7 (in 1980–83, and then 17 in 1984, and expanded to 36 in 1999) was expected to compile all the cultural policies of the country.
On 14 January 1981, Nejad appeared at the Old Bailey in London charged with murder, conspiracy to murder, false imprisonment and possessing firearms with intent.
On Reza Khan's orders, he and Alexander were left alone to discuss matters of the future in private.
In addition, the post was occasionally held by the Sultan's chief minister, the Grand Vizier himself.
On 15 January 2026, British newspaper The Guardian reported that Erfan Soltani's execution "had been postponed", citing a member of his family abroad as a source.
At some point in early 2019, the Free Palestine Movement sent detachments to take part in counter-insurgency operations in Deir ez-Zor Governorate, and contributed troops to the Northwestern Syria offensive (April–August 2019).
As Deputy Minister, he had announced that due to the lack of participation of the private sector in the construction of power plants, the government will be active in the construction of the power plant.
The original FUND convention in 1969 was drawn up as an enhancement to CLC meant on one hand to relieve shipowners from unfair liabilities due to unforeseeable circumstances and on the other hand remove liability caps that some member states thought were too low.
It has also led Canada to withdraw from the Kyoto Protocol in 2011 out of a wish not to make its citizens pay penalties that would result in wealth transfers out of Canada.
Despite pressure by state authorities to remain silent, the Mothers of Khavaran have worked for over thirty years to seek justice and accountability for their loved ones.
Iran's deployment of heavy tanks, aircraft, and artillery deterred the Baath leadership from obstructing the waterway, delivering a significant setback to Baghdad.
He moved therefore to remove any possible grievances and hence any need for a foreign "protector." He exempted the priests of all denominations from taxation, and gave material support to Christian schools in Azerbaijan and Isfahan.
2020 On 5 May 2020, an IRGC commander was killed along with two other IRGC soldiers in Kurdistan Province by "anti-revolutionary elements".
observed the movements and activities of the Red Army in Tabriz and transmitted all the secret operations of the Soviet Union forces in Azerbaijan to the United States moment by moment.
It was also reported that they blocked roads, and using heavy machine guns, fired live ammunition at the assembled crowds at random.
On the eve of the invasion of Iran, the SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) illness broke out, but disappeared after the invasion".
The post itself was mainly known as ataabak or ataabak-e a'zam (grand ataabak), or sometimes sadr-e a'zam (premier) at the beginning, but became ra'is ol-vozaraa (head of ministers) at the end.
Many analysts praise his handling of Iran's economy, his civil and economic leadership during the Iran–Iraq War, and his efforts to end Iran's international isolation.
1921 coup d'état Following a long career in the Iranian military, Alexander Khan Setkhanian retired to the Davidkhanian mansion, relinquishing his responsibilities leading the Persian Cossack Brigade.
The organization operates under the Social Security Law adopted in 1975, which consolidated earlier pension and insurance arrangements into a single national framework.
In 2018, a top military commander of the Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Brigadier General Ahmad Reza Pourdastan, revealed that Iran had intelligence data about military activity in a number of Arab countries in the Middle East, including Jordan, and threatened to attack if provoked.
He has a background as the president of Malek-Ashtar University of Technology and was the CEO of MAPNA Group from December 2008 to July 2023.
While on a diplomatic mission to Russia, Tsatur Khan had promised Grand Duke Michael Nikolaevich that he would send his son to be educated in the Russian Empire.
The Shanghai Cooperation Organization Military Tattoo (Chinese: 上海合作组织军乐节; Russian: Парад военного оркестра Шанхайской организации сотрудничества) also known as the SCO Military Tattoo is an annual military music event and military tattoo organized by the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.
Reception Al-Khatib al-Baghdadi said: “Our Sheikh Abu al-Tayyib was pious, sane, knowledgeable of the principles and branches, of good character, and of sound doctrine.
Due to the ongoing protests Hazhir demanded a second parliamentarian vote of confidence which was granted on 23 August.
First vice president of Iran (Persian: معاون اول رئیس‌جمهور ایران) is defined by article 124 of the Constitution of Iran as anyone appointed by the President of Iran to lead an organization related to presidential affairs in Iran.
Global Jihadist Terrorism: Terrorist Groups, Zones of Armed Conflict and National Counter-Terrorism Strategies.
External links Media related to Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance of Iran at Wikimedia Commons
The Foundation gives home loans to disabled veterans and to the families of soldiers killed in action, who in Iran are considered martyrs (shaheedan).
Tasnim News Agency (Persian: خبرگزاری تسنیم) is a semi-official news agency in Iran associated with the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC).
This company is located near the historical city of Susa and Choghaznabil Temple and at a distance of 45 km from Andimeshk road to Ahvaz in Khuzestan province.
Financial position Government arrears to the Social Security Organization have been reported by domestic and international media outlets to amount to several thousand trillion rials by the early 2020s.
'Revolutionary group') was a small pro-Iranian militant organization which active in Iraq and Syria.
The council has challenged laws against Holocaust denial, spread of Islamophobia, forced unveiling in schools, specifically in France as being against human rights.
In 2013, President Ahmedinejad said that he obtained a recording between Larijani's brother and the former prosecutor general of Tehran, Saeed Mortazavi, which allegedly proved that the Larijani family took advantage of their positions for personal gain.
The first Meeting of Parties of the Kyoto Protocol (CMP) was held in 2005 in conjunction with COP 11.
There were many reports of polling officers tearing off the green‐colored "yes" portions of the ballots and stuffing them in the boxes on behalf of the voters...A number of young voters told reporters that they were afraid to openly vote no in the presence of so many others who felt otherwise".
The squadron was formed in 1958 during the reign of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi at the 1st Tactical Air Base in Mehrabad, and over time it was expanded and equipped with more advanced aircraft.
In a televised confession on the Islamic Republic of Iran Television, Fashi explained in detail how he cooperated with the Mossad and how he had received training in Israel, but there were many contradictions in his confessions.
See also Byzantine–Sasanian War of 602–628 References Sources Dodgeon, Michael H.; Greatrex, Geoffrey; Lieu, Samuel N.
We will not hesitate to use them, if we have to, at any point in time in the course of aggression against our country to protect our people.
Background In March 2025, US director of national intelligence Tulsi Gabbard testified that the US Intelligence Community "continues to assess Iran is not building a nuclear weapon and Supreme Leader Khamenei has not authorized a nuclear weapons program".
In 614 they captured Melitene and Shahin divided his armies in two, one army marching to sack Sardis and Miletus and his army move towards Chalcedon.
VOA reported that before the 2024 Islamic Consultative Assembly elections, authorities had encouraged non-hijab-wearing individuals to vote, but later adopted a "factory reset" approach after the elections.
In July 1997, the Grey Wolves clashed with Kurdish university students in Northern Cyprus who protested against Turkey's invasion of northern Iraq in search of Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) members.
On 3 March 2025, Zarif announced his resignation following a prolonged legal dispute concerning his appointment.
He was the first Jewish citizen and one of the first Iranian civilians to be executed by the new Islamist regime.
Many non-Annex I Parties are making efforts to amend and update their environmental legislation to include global concerns such as climate change.
The spouse of a lawyer, a minister, an engineer, a university lecturer, a physician, etc., knows little about her husband's life.
In 1993, Iran enacted a comprehensive law on maritime areas, provisions of which conflict with UNCLOS provisions, including a requirement that warships, submarines, and nuclear-powered ships obtain permission before exercising innocent passage through Iran's territorial waters.
The Badr Brigades' militiamen and supply lines became known collectively as the “Sheibani Network,” which maintained links to Asa'ib Ahl al-Haq (AAH) and to Kata'ib Hezbollah.
While filming his neighbour Lee James drinking beer and playing with his young daughter, James noticed Ebrahimi filming them, and accused Ebrahimi of filming his daughter for his sexual gratification.
The Tofangchi-aghasi, also spelled Tufangchi-aqasi, and otherwise known as the Tofangchi-bashi, was the commander of the Safavid Empire's musketeer corps, the tofangchis.
Iraq's oil is in this corridor between Basra and Baghdad; Kuwait, and [Saudi] Arabia, which 80 percent of its oil is located in the Shia-populated places like Damam [and] Qatif, and it is also clear for Iran.
See also Mourning Mothers Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo Saturday Mothers Women in Black Black Sash Tiananmen Mothers Ladies in White StopExecutionsinIran Effat Moridi (Mother Moeini) == Notes ==
Operation Claw-Tiger On 17 June, Turkish Land Forces launched a ground operation in the Haftanin region of Iraqi Kurdistan.
Esteghlal fans among Iranian football teams have always been exposed to injustices such as budget cuts.
Also, preparing a video report of veterans staying home and broadcasting their memories at the ceremony is another program prepared by the experts of this unit.
The strike was seen as a spillover of the Gaza war and marked Iran's first direct attack on Israel since the start of their proxy conflict.
In course of the Syrian civil war, Saed Abd Al-Aal served as the commander of the organization's paramilitary wing.
Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting The Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting (IRIB) according to Constitution is the only radio and television services in Iran.
History The Iranian Scout Organization was established in 1925, considering the activities in this field.
Khatami also announced that he is about to launch a television program to promote intercultural dialogue.
He was secretary-general of National Olympic Committee of the Islamic Republic of Iran and President of the Football Federation Islamic Republic of Iran in the 1980s and 1990s.
Supranational European Union: High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Josep Borrell "strongly condemned" Iran's attack and called it "an unprecedented escalation and a grave threat to regional security".
In March 2026, the government of Ontario, Canada applied to Superior Court for an emergency injunction barring a Quds Day march in Toronto.
Preparation of a database of information related to Iranian and non-Iranian Iranologists and Islamologists (name, list of researches, books and articles, etc.) in order to mutually use their scientific experiences in the field of Iranology and to coordinate activities to information exchange.
Mojdehi's well-known reputation for excellence in internal medicine and singular ability to diagnose difficult cases served as a means of his release.
Human Rights Watch identified and published images of the tombstones of Fatemiyoun soldiers killed in the Syrian war and buried in Iran in 2017.
Do Ab Training Camp (Persian: پادگان اموزش دواب – Pādegān-e Amūzesh Do Āb; also known as Padegān-e Do Āb) is a village and military installation in Rastupey Rural District, in the Central District of Savadkuh County, Mazandaran Province, Iran.
In December 2006, in a speech at Shiraz University, Bahonar criticised faction of students of Amirkabir University who protested against Mahmoud Ahmadinejad earlier that month.
Composition External links Media related to Cabinet of Jafar Sharif-Emami (1978) at Wikimedia Commons == References ==
It can be said that China had played a unique and constructive role and thus is highly praised and affirmed by all parties.
Arrest and execution Behmardi was one of the members of the third National Spiritual Assembly in Iran.
The seventh meeting of the Persistent Organic Pollutants Review Committee (POPRC-7) of the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants (POPs) took place from 10 to 14 October 2011 in Geneva.
Reactions Iran After a video of Erdoğan's speech in Baku circulated online, Iranian social media was awash with angry posts that demanded a resolute response from the Iranian government.
Their poor working relationship bled into their professional relationship, and policy clashes would increasingly occur.
Iran's two existing separate militaries, the Islamic Republic of Iran Army (Arteš) and the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (Sepāh) are subordinate to the general staff, as well as Iran's sole national police force, the Police Command.
According to the constitution, all supreme leaders, following Ayatollah Khomeini, are to be elected by the Assembly of Experts, who are elected by Iranian voters to eight-year terms.
Some Iranian journalists and analysts asked the Iranian government to file a case in international court against the National Post, as BBC Persian reported.
parity of 1,000,000 tomans for a barrel of oil), such as with Venezuela's newly minted "Petro" crypto-currency.
Structure Adelabad Prison consists of two main sections: the central detention center and the main prison facility.
Along with government funding, UNICEF has funded several Iranian volunteer based groups that seek to promote greater education about the pandemic and to combat the prejudice that often follows Iranians who have it.
The Iranians added to the EU sanctions list were two Revolutionary Guard commanders, Soleimani, Mohammad Ali Jafari, and the Guard's deputy commander for intelligence, Hossein Taeb.
Ministry of Guards (Persian: وزارت سپاه, romanized: Vezārat-e Sepāh) was a government ministry in Iran between 1982 and 1989, which mainly acted as a ministry of defence dedicated to logistically supply the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
Ayatollah Ahmad Jannati (born 23 February 1927) is an Iranian politician and cleric who has served as the secretary of the Guardian Council since 1992.
The same day it was reported that 5 Iraqi Kurdistan civilians in the Soran district were wounded following Iranian shelling of the area.
Derelict at Arak Airport Dassault Falcon (Mystere) 20E: Flight Calibration Service, registration mark EP-FIC (since 09 Sep 1975).
The conference was less notable for its proceedings than for its disruption by anti-regime Iranian exiles, and for the long prison sentences given to several participants upon their return to Iran.
attempt to extend UN sanctions against Iran under a JCPoA "snapback" provision was opposed by 13 Security Council members, who argued that the U.S.
Zarif speaks at Princeton University (August 2006) Article about Zarif's exit from the United Nations in the Washington Post (15 April 2007) French article about Zarif and his diplomat life (October 2013)
He is a diplomate of the American Board of Surgery and professor of surgery at Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences in Tehran, Iran.
Although Anglo-Iranian filed an appeal on the same day, it was withdrawn on October 29, resulting in a victory for Idemitsu.
Historical background The Monetary and Banking Research Institute (MBRI) was established in 1990 out of necessity for a central repository of the monetary and banking research in the country.
In 1957, he chaired the Iranian delegation to the Congress of Orientalists in Munich and taught at Columbia University in the United States.
See also Shia topics Iran–Saudi Arabia proxy conflict Axis of Resistance Shia–Sunni relations Shia Islam: Demographics (for current estimates of Shia proportion of population) Geography topics Fertile Crescent Mesopotamia References Bibliography Chomsky, Noam (2012).
The operation, described as one of the most significant counterterrorism actions in recent years, is believed to have been orchestrated by Iran's IRGC Unit 840.
Firman of Mehmed IV (1648–1687) In this firman, the monks of Mount Athos report that the administrative officials charged with the collection of taxes come at a later date than they are supposed to and demand more money than the value assessed.
Secretary general of The World Forum for Proximity of Islamic Schools of Thought See also Islamic Development Organization Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance Islamic Development Coordination Council Office of Literature and Art of Resistance == References ==
Allegations of corruption in the contract award process resulted in two international lawsuits filed in following years, detailed below.
Appointment to Iranian Cabinet President Khatami appointed Zahra Shojaie as his advisor on women's affairs (a position formerly held by Shahla Habibi) and the head of the Center for Women's Participation.
Alireza Rajaei (2000, Tehran), certain ballots were voided in order to declare the conservative incumbent as the winner.
The bill has two amendments: According to Articles 77 and 125 of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran, results of negotiations must be submitted to Majlis.
In 1973, during the Third Congress of the PDKI, he was elected the secretary general of the party, a position to which he was reelected several times until his assassination.
Leadership According to the approval of the Supreme National Security Council, new members were added to this council in the winter of 2023.
History Mohammad Ali Shah Qajar, who had ascended the throne on 3 January 1907, opposed the constitution of 1906 that had been ratified during the reign of his father, Mozaffar ad-Din Shah Qajar.
Biography Mosahab was born in Tehran in 1913, the third child of the politician Mohammed Ali Mosahab.
In 433 H (1041–2 CE) Ibrahim arrived at Ray, and began driving away the Oghuz who were already there, by now known as the "Iraqi Turkmen".
The D1 standard requires ships to carry out a ballast water exchange, and specifies the volume of water that must be replaced.
The Brazilian Foreign Minister, Antonio Patriota expressed his disgust and dismay at the situation by calling it "unacceptable" and "very disturbing".
History Persian dynasties Shāh, also known by its full-length term Shāhanshāh (King of Kings), was the title of the Persian emperors.
In 2016 then-President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad vouched to fight "economic/oil Mafia" at all echelons of government.
Relations in Late Antiquity In the 2nd century CE, the balance of power shifted emphatically in favour of the Romans.
He has served as the head of the branches of the Supreme Court in Tehran Province, the Director-General of Parliamentary Affairs at the Ministry of Justice, the Deputy Prosecutor for Judicial Affairs, and a faculty member at the university.
He is widely considered to be "Iran's first reformer", a moderniser who was "unjustly struck down" as he attempted to bring "gradual reform" to Iran.
The office was originally created in late 1984 General Provost of IRGC was a subdivision to the Joint Staff.
In 2026, it was estimated that 4000 people were working at its headquarters and another 40,000 affiliated with the office throughout the Iranian government.
Backgrounds and origins of the theory of exporting the Islamic Revolution according to the writings of Khomeini are: The universality of Islam: According to the Quran and Muhammad, Islam is a universal and general religion.
Notable participants Festival titles by year Gallery Videos SCO Military Tattoo Parade held in Beijing on YouTube Live: First military tattoo commences at China’s Great Wall 2018“和平号角”上海合作组织军乐节开幕 on YouTube == References ==
He represented Tehran, Rey, Shemiranat, and Eslamshahr twice in the Parliament of Iran, as well as serving a brief spell from Mashhad and Kalat electoral district.
If carried on parade by colour guards, they are placed beside the Flag of Iran, which serves as the national color.
Although this consultative assembly, as its name suggests, was more ceremonial, after several centuries it can be considered a spark of reform in Iran's political structure.
The Paris Agreement superseded the UNFCCC's Kyoto Protocol which had been signed in 1997 and ran from 2005 to 2020.
National Migration Organization (Persian: سازمان ملی مهاجرت), also known as Immigrants National Organization (سازمان ملی مهاجرین) is an Iranian government agency responsible for immigration.
In this view, the use of all means to achieve revolutionary goals was considered legitimate and acceptable.
During the 2019 Iran floods, in order to help to flood-stricken people, EIKO prepared essential equipment for flood-stricken people and furnished facilities (fridges, washing machines, carpets, and other necessary elements) for 15,000 families.
After the Islamic revolution and the start of the Iran–Iraq War, economic sanctions and an international arms embargo led by the United States coupled with a high demand for military hardware forced Iran to rely on its domestic arms industry for repair and spare parts.
Official visits See also Foreign relations of Burkina Faso Foreign relations of Iran == References ==
According to Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, this was due to the illness of Ayatollah Khomeini and his concerns about the future of the revolution (in his absence).
Saremi's date of death (17 Mordad in the Iranian calendar) is named National Journalists' Day in Iran.
In its 10 April 1997 ruling, the court issued an international arrest warrant for Iranian intelligence minister Ali Fallahian after declaring that the assassination had been ordered by him with knowledge of Khamenei and Rafsanjani.
Madrasa Nezam or Madrese-ye Nezām (Persian: مدرسه نظام) was a military academy located in Shah's Garden (now Hor Square), Tehran.
Hoveida approved the proposal and Etemad was made the head of Iran's Institute for Planning and Research in Science.
For many decades this seemed unlikely to transpire, but in 1990, DM 239.4 million in deferred interest became due.
Reza-Qoli Khan Hedayat (Persian: رضاقلی‌خان هدایت; 8 June 1800 – 29 June 1871) was a Qajar era Iranian literary historian, administrator, and poet.
Kuwait: Foreign ministry issued a statement on Thursday to voice solidarity with the Iranian nation and government and strongly condemned terrorist attacks.
For this reason, the UNFCCC has been criticized as being unsuccessful in reducing greenhouse gas emission since its adoption.
Shortly after the accession of Yazid II, Ibn al-Muhallab raised a mass revolt against the Umayyads in Iraq, which was stamped out by the governor Umar ibn Hubayra al-Fazari and the caliph's brother Maslama ibn Abd al-Malik.
Resolving conflicts between the three branches of the government Issuing decrees for national referendums.
The raid has reignited outrage among civil society groups and human rights organizations, who view the attack as part of a wider pattern of systematic repression and ethnically motivated violence carried out by the Iranian regime.
Iran has approximately 29.6 trillion cubic meters of proven gas reserves which accounts for 16% of the world's total reserves.
Jaleh's brother was arrested after his interview with Voice of America, Persian, and is currently in prison in the town of Paveh, in Kermanshah, Iran.
Despite his old age and poor health, he became a candidate for re-election in 2006 Assembly of Experts elections.
Shortly thereafter, Mansouri became the target of a potential assassination attempt during a visit to her country home, when she discovered a heating pipe in the home had been sealed with new insulation, which could have resulted in fatal carbon monoxide poisoning.
The Council, consisting of the speaker of the Islamic Consultative Assembly, Chief Justice, and the first deputy of the president, is obliged to arrange for a new president to be elected within a maximum period of fifty days.
Criticism In 2006, Mehr News Agency was described by the Anti-Defamation League as a "megaphone for notorious Holocaust deniers" because it had published interviews with Arthur Butz, Michael A.
November 11, 2013: Iran and the IAEA signed a Joint Statement on a Framework for Cooperation committing both parties to cooperate and resolve all present and past issues.
According to the listing, it is "illegal to direct the activities of, be a member of, associate with members of, recruit for, train with, get funds to, from or for, or provide support to, the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corp", with a penalty of 25 years of imprisonment.
The beglerbegi, who was also an emir, was also known as the emir al-omara of the province that he oversaw.
He furthermore stated that "there is no justification whatsoever for deliberately attacking civilians" and that "we continue to coordinate with our partners for an appropriate response".
The United States of America is not a signatory to CLC, despite considerable involvement in its formulation.
Namazi's image is featured in a 15-foot mural in Georgetown (Washington, D.C.) along with other Americans wrongfully detained abroad.
Planned replacement The new prison will be in the east and will be 80,000 hectares, making it three times larger than the current prison.
Mehdi Hajati (Persian: مهدی حاجتی) is an Iranian Political activist who was a member of the Islamic City Council of Shiraz.
Neither nation had made any real gains in the war, which left one million dead and had a dramatic effect on the country's foreign policy.
In addition, there are flags on logos that are based on the IRGC used by various Arab armed militia groups supported by Iran such as Hezbollah (Lebanon), Popular Mobilization Forces (Iraq), Sabireen Movement (Gaza Strip) and so on.
He also reorganized the existing Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs, Ministry of Energy and Ministry of Information and Tourism.
In 2007, following events in Iran's Nuclear Program, the United Nations Security Council placed sanctions on Iran forbidding it from exporting any form of weapons.
In addition, they routinely remove and destroy any plantation, photos or signs that identify or mark the graves in any way.
The fatwa was issued "without any fanfare" responding to a request from an official "for his religious opinion on nuclear weapons".
Note 2: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is obliged to submit a report on the activities of the mentioned committee to the National Security and Foreign Policy Commission, annually or as well as when appropriate.
Women were granted the right to vote in 1963, and in the parliamentary elections that year, Tarbiat was one of six women elected to the National Consultative Assembly.
The Commission's key role was to determine the types of debts that would be addressed by the London Agreement.
Chairmen See also Parallel Intelligence Agency Intelligence Protection Organization of Islamic Republic of Iran Army, similar agency Notes == References ==
After the death of Set Khan and Abbas Mirza, military reforms in Qajar Iran were virtually halted for the next half-century.
Several ministerial meetings are held during the year, for example, between foreign ministers, finance ministers, central bank governors, trade ministers, and energy ministers.
He graduated from the University of Tehran and Utah State University, receiving degrees in agricultural engineering.
One of the presenters and organizers of the ceremony was Pegah Ahangarani, a popular young Iranian actress.
The channel is one of the newer television channels in Iran and was established on 26 November 1995.
The United Nations Commission on Human Rights drew even greater attention to the apartheid issue when the Special Committee Against Apartheid raised awareness to the inhumane treatment of some political captives in South Africa.
Overview There are a number of cultural and commercial artefacts that the Ministry of CIG regulates by licensing their entry into the country, or by exporting from Iran.
The warhead of the Tondar missile is lighter than that of the AT-11 Sniper missile which may indicate design changes or poor data reporting.
According to human rights organizations and other media outlets, 2 women were killed, 10 were injured and more than 50 arrested.
Operation Claw-Eagle Turkish Armed Forces bombed Sinjar and destroyed multiple PKK camps near Yezedi villages.
Both countries are members of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, Group of 77 and Non-Aligned Movement.
With the outbreak of the Iran–Iraq War, many of the successful aerial and ground operations of the Islamic Republic of Iran Air Force were based on reconnaissance flights conducted by this squadron.
On 9 September 2019, reports emerged that "Iranian" or "Iranian-backed militias" had been targeted in airstrikes, which appeared to be similar to a June 2018 airstrike that targeted a Kata'ib Hezbollah base at a similar location.
He was later elected to the parliament five times, representing Tabriz, Osku and Azarshahr electoral district, from 2008 to 2024.
The Iranian National Tax Administration or in brief INTA is one of the organizations affiliated to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance in Iran which is responsible for handling the country's tax affairs.
In 2011, Iran ranked 7th in exporting crude oil to Europe and a Eurostat report stated that 27 European states imported 11.4 billion Euros of goods from Iran in the first nine months of 2011.
Given his reputation as a reformer and agent of positive change, in 1978, when controversy swirled around the existing cabinet appointee in the Ministry of Health, Dr.
As a consequence, existence of the council is a precondition for the efficiency of the legislative power as all bills passed by the Parliament have to be submitted to the council in order to enact.
The Swedish officers decided to help the Persians and engaged in numerous battles with the Allies, including the Kermanshah operation, Battle of Qom, British occupation of Bushehr, and Battle of Robat Karim.
This can involve increasing resilience by substituting local inputs for imported inputs, the smuggling of goods and an increase in barter trade.
Mosahab was an advocate for women's rights and became member of the Women's Organization of Iran in the 1950s, campaigning women's suffrage and opposing veiling.
Cabinet Members of Amini's cabinet were as follows: References External links Media related to Cabinet of Ali Amini at Wikimedia Commons
In accordance with the constitution, a Provisional Presidential Council formed the same day and proposed Mohammad-Reza Mahdavi Kani as prime minister to the Majlis.
To better understand these subdivisions, the following table for Sepidan County in Fars province (as it existed in 2006) is an example showing the hierarchy of a county's divisions: See also -stan -abad Notes == References and notes ==
Research Council is composed of the head, and five academists and experts among MPs elected by the board of trustees and five expert researches are at least assistant professors and introduced by the head of the center and board of trustees' approval.
The same day, Hoveyda established the Ministry of Industry and Mines, Ministry of Commerce and Ministry of Social Welfare.
However, as former UN drug official Cindy Fazey notes, the convention has no termination clause, and therefore would remain in effect even if only one signatory remained.
In 1935 she established the Women's Centre in Tehran, supporting the Kashf-e hijab reform against compulsory hijab (veiling).
According to statistics published by a state news agency last year, one in ten Iranians currently owns a pet.
Bahār's Official Website has made a selection of Bahār's poetry available to the general public, which the interested reader may wish to consult.
Fallahzadeh served as the IRGC Quds Force's deputy for coordination affairs before taking the new job.
Seyyed Ali Khamenei was the Leader of Iran during this term, until his assassination on 28 February 2026.
He made rapid progress and finished studying the introductory and intermediate Islamic studies levels in approximately four years.
On 13 June 2022, during the 2021–2022 Iraqi political crisis, 74 MPs from Muqtada al-Sadr's bloc resigned from parliament.
In 1980 Ghorbanifar was the liaison between the Shah's last Prime Minister, Shahpour Bakhtiar, in exile in Paris, and conspirators in the Iranian armed forces organising what is sometimes known as the Nojeh Coup.
District Court for the District of Columbia) brought by Iran against Textron earlier, Iran had sought damages against unfulfilled contracts dating back before revolution.
Holidays and leave Employees are entitled to leave on all official state holidays (approximately 22 days a year) and Fridays.
Therefore, the constitutionalists hastily drafted the text of the constitution so that they could present it to the dying shah before his departure.
The United States soon after declared that they will take "further action" in response to the attack on a NATO ally.
In his decree, Khomeini made it clear that Iranians were religiously obliged to obey Bazargan and the new government: As a man who, through the guardianship that I have from the holy lawgiver, I hereby pronounce Bazargan as the ruler, and since I have appointed him, he must be obeyed.
During the Iran–Iraq War (1980–1988), Pezeshkian frequently visited the front lines, where he was responsible for sending medical teams and working as a fighter and doctor.
She subsequently attended Laval University in Canada and the University of Florida and University of Indiana in the United States, studying for a second doctorate.
Determining research priorities at the foundation and preparing a list of important research topics that may be the subject of master's and doctoral dissertations.
Launched in 2012, its purpose is to cover a variety of political, social, economic and international subjects along with many other fields.
In September 1979, a modified version of the Family Protection Law's divorce provisions were introduced and adopted on the 23rd of that month.
On 3 September 2013, Masjed-Jamei was elected as chairman by 16 out of 31 votes and succeeded Mehdi Chamran in the post.
He is one of the international figures of Hawza as well as one of the most eminent theoreticians in Fiqh (Jurisprudence) concerning proximity of various religious schools and religions.
Once again, a Provisional Presidential Council filled the office until October 13, 1981 when Ali Khamenei was elected president.
Tafazzoli was appointed minister without portfolio and the head of press and broadcasting department in the cabinet led by Prime Minister Asadollah Alam in 1962.
On January 23, 2025, the SDF destroyed a cell linked to the remnants of the Ba'athist regime in the Deir ez-Zor countryside and captured four Assad loyalists.
In May 2024, Larijani submitted his application for his candidacy for the president in the 2024 Iranian presidential election, but was again rejected by the Guardian Council.
He later became a specialist in heart surgery, leading him to become president of Tabriz University of Medical Sciences from 1994 to 1999.
This is a list of frigates of Iran, which have served in the Imperial Iranian Navy and the Islamic Republic of Iran Navy.
Human rights organizations reported Soltani was denied a lawyer and was not given a trial before his sentence.
One day prior to the execution, Amnesty International made a last-minute appeal for the execution to be halted, saying Jahed had not received a fair trial.
Biography Amanollah Alimoradi Bardsiri was born on 1 Farvardin in 1342 AH in the village of Barkanan, a part of Baft County, to a religious and knowledge-loving family.
Panarin notes that this was not in any way related to the true national renaissance of the Azerbaijani nation but was a mere ideological initiative.
One of its most effective missions was identifying the location of Iraq’s floating bridge across the Shatt al-Arab, which was subsequently destroyed by IRIAF Phantoms on 24 May 1982, paving the way for the Liberation of Khorramshahr.
Published works I Feared Nothing: The Autobiography of Qasem Soleimani, 1957- 1979, Lantern Publications, 2023.
Article XIX declares that the present Convention, of which the Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited in the archives of the United Nations.
The current version of this card is called the national smart card (Persian: کارت هوشمند ملّی) and is the successor of the national card (Persian: کارت ملّی).
Although the exact amount of taxes collected during the Medes period is not known, it is certain that the extinction of the Medes was related to the amount of taxes collected by them.
A trustee to oversee the princes' wedding expenses In 1834, Fath-Ali Shah's 39th son, Prince Seifo-Dowleh, was getting married; and his wedding ceremony was one of the largest in the country.
Around this time, the Baqir Brigade reportedly operated under the leadership of the Iraqi Harakat Hezbollah al-Nujaba, which also equipped its members.
As of 15 July 2021, 86 countries were contracting States to the BWM Convention (representing 91.12% of the gross tonnage of the global merchant fleet).
This resolution concluded with a request to the Commission on Human Rights at its 29th session to consider the draft convention a priority item and submit the results of its consideration at the 28th session of the General Assembly.
The International Atomic Energy Agency is restricted to conventional inspections of Nuclear facilities in Iran and barred from seeing military bases, security sensitive sites, documents and scientists, and must comply with Supreme National Security Council policies.
For what the IAEA judged to be continued non-compliance, the UN Security Council has voted four times since 2006 to impose limited economic sanctions against Iran.
Following the revolution, the Khurasani supporters of the Abbasids were rewarded with privileged status.
Barakat Foundation On 11 December 2007, based on the sentence of the second Supreme Leader, Ali Khamenei, "I'm concerned about solving problems of the deprived classes of the society.
Today, after more than four decades of the Islamic Republic of Iran, what is left of the United States cultural diplomacy in Iran is like a kind of cultural aggression.
In late July 2013, the Mehr news agency reported that Fazli was the only candidate for interior minister at the cabinet of President Hassan Rouhani.
After completing the introductory studies, he studied jurisprudence (fiqh) and its principles (usool al-fiqh).
A number of traditional Muslim historians name him as the son of "Sa'id, mawla of al-Husayn", but this is an error, likely originating from a typographical mistake in an earlier source.
Arrest and defection He returned in Iran and was politically active during and after the revolution.
She is well known as a pro-active activist, leading to her having an active role in most of the national and international conferences and events on Afghanistan like Bonn II, London Conference and others where she gave very critical speeches about the situation in Afghanistan.
And you have a mother who has lost two children and her husband in the past four years.' Beatings and interrogation alternate with stretches of solitary confinement in a windowless cell during which Bahri fears he is going crazy.
Formation When Khomeini returned to a revolutionary Iran after his 15-year exile, he sought a transitional government to govern until a new constitution could be ratified.
The first step of this department was the acceptance and preliminary implementation of the plan to compile "Front Culture".
Under a multibillion-dollar industrialisation programme, the Shah commissioned US arms firms to build weapons factories in Iran.
After the evaluation and documentation of the process of carrying out the project, the Barakat Foundation will be removed from the implementation process.
"Faraz va forud-e sazman-e bazresi-ye shahanshahy az Yazdanpanah ta Fardoust [The Rise and Fall of the Imperial Inspectorate Organization from Yazdanpanah to Fardoust]".
Television confessions On 11 December 2010, the Ministry of Intelligence of the Islamic Republic of Iran announced that it had succeeded in arresting the perpetrator of the bombing and assassination of Iranian nuclear scientist Massoud Ali-Mohammadi.
Development The missile called "Qader" (Able) is an upgraded version of Noor (a copy of Chinese C-802 missile).
Additionally, the chief justice nominates several candidates for the position of Minister of Justice, from whom the president of Iran selects one.
In Operation Beit-ol-Moqaddas, the Najaf Ashraf Division was the unit which first broke into Khorramshahr, capturing thousands of Iraqi soldiers.
On 28 October 1980, Gardouneh and her sister ships Paykan and Joshan were deployed to attack Iraqi oil facilities at al-Faw, supported by a Sikorsky SH-3 Sea King.
He stated that Tehran was 'ready to engage' with Western powers regarding its nuclear program, provided they acted in good faith.
He studied Hadith under al-Daraqutni, he studied Fiqh under Abu Hamid al-Isfarayini, and he studied Kalam and Hadith under Abu Ishaq al-Isfarayini.
Early life and education Mohammad Mokhber was born in Dezful, Iran, on 26 June 1955 to a clerical family.
After Iranian Revolution of 1979 During the riot of the people of Tabriz against Mohammad Reza Pahlavi on February 18, 1978, the "John F.
Hamid Behbahani (Persian: حمید بهبهانی, 14 January 1941 – 9 March 2024) was an Iranian academic and politician who served as minister of roads and transportation from 5 August 2008 to 1 February 2011 when he was impeached by the Parliament of Iran.
More than 48,000 candidates registered, but leaving about 15,000 candidates to run for the 290 seats representing the 31 provinces.
Primary suppliers included the United States, Britain, France, West Germany, Italy, Israel, and the Soviet Union.
'insightful') is an Iranian laser-guided dual-capability surface-to-surface and air-to-surface missile.
In one article, Ahmadinejad's former media adviser, Mehdi Kalhor, "criticised the black colour of Iranian chadors, saying they did not originate from the Persian culture but were rather imported from the west." He has a "few weeks" to appeal the sentence and is expected to do so.
Operation of prostitution rings is also punishable by death, as well as "making large-scale pornographic websites".
The INC met five times between June 1998 and December 2000 to elaborate the convention, and delegates adopted the Stockholm Convention on POPs at the Conference of the Plenipotentiaries convened from 22 to 23 May 2001 in Stockholm, Sweden.
Nuclear Power Plant Division (NPPD): Responsible for planning, construction, commissioning, decommissioning and nuclear safety of nuclear power plants in Iran.
Activities During his leadership of the Mostazafan Foundation, Parviz Fattah oversaw several infrastructure projects, notably the opening of Lot 2 of the Tehran–Shomal Freeway—a 15.5 km section—in July 2023, which reduced the travel distance between Tehran and the northern regions.
However, the Khan Shaykhun chemical attack in April 2017 indicated that undeclared stockpiles probably remained in the country.
The social security makes it possible to ensure the employees against unemployment, the disease, old age (retirement pension), the occupational accidents.
On 20 March 2026, it was reported that the UAE State Security Department had uncovered a terror network linking Hezbollah and Iran.
According to Sebeos, when they reached Chalcedon in 615, Heraclius had agreed to stand down and allow the Byzantine Empire to become a client state, as well as even allow Khosrow II to choose the emperor.
AAH has claimed responsibility for over 6,000 attacks on U.S.-led Coalition forces between 2006 and 2011, seeking to drive U.S.
History and Mission The Iranian Department of Environment (DOE) traces its roots to the Hunting Club of Iran, founded in 1956 to regulate hunting practices and protect wildlife.
See also Pahlavi dynasty List of prime ministers of Iran References 'Alí Rizā Awsatí (عليرضا اوسطى), Iran in the Past Three Centuries (Irān dar Se Qarn-e Goz̲ashteh – ايران در سه قرن گذشته), Volumes 1 and 2 (Paktāb Publishing – انتشارات پاکتاب, Tehran, Iran, 2003).
Arghun Agha was in control of the four districts of eastern and central Persia, as decreed by the great khan Möngke Khan.
It is one of the few air elements in any Persian Gulf navy, and has both fixed-wing aircraft and armed helicopters.
Such "distorted news" is then repeated by the Russia's RT and Cuba's Prensa Latina, and Venezuela's state media, including SIBCI, AVN, TeleSUR, Venezolana de Televisión (VTV), Alba TV, La Radio del Sur, Radio Nacional de Venezuela (RNV), YVKE Mundial, Correo del Orinoco and Ciudad CCS.
The worm is believed to cause centrifuges to spin out of control damaging themselves, while a pre-recorded version of safety displays is played, showing what normal operations looked like to plant operators, while the centrifuges were being destroyed.
By May 1, 2015, Nadia remained in federal incarceration while her father and stepmother were moved to the Harris County jail.
1979 – 20 June 2010) was an Iranian Baloch militant who was the leader of Jundallah, a Sunni Islamist militant group based in the Sistan and Balochistan province in southeastern Iran.
Mohammad Bagher Nobakht is the other vice president in the cabinet and he is in charge of planning and strategic supervision.
According to Al-Monitor, it may be the first time that young people in the West have been directly addressed by a senior Muslim cleric about his religion.
These two events were merely two events in a series of developments that worsened the relation between the two states.
The electoral and fundamental laws of 1906 The electoral and fundamental laws of 1906 established the electoral system and the internal frameworks of the Majlis (Parliament) and the Senate.
They were a family involved in agriculture, and Ghorbani would help his family with farm work as well as attending school.
International Institutions and organizations Amnesty International requested a criminal investigation into the suspicious death.
The second day started with more interruptions, when WCP protested that they have not given a voice in the conference.
The Court did not yet submit a decision regarding the Iran's liability and its obligations regarding the caused harm to the United States, embassy and the hostages.
Service history Derafsh, along with the frigate Damavand, left home for a visit to Makhachkala, Russia in March 2017.
Third phase (1982–1984) 1982 Israeli invasion Pretext On 3 June 1982, the Abu Nidal Organization, a splinter group of Fatah, attempted to assassinate Israeli ambassador Shlomo Argov in London.
A few days later, France said it would back the designation, marking a reversal of its earlier position.
Detention Rigi was arrested by Pakistani forces and transferred to Iranian officials in 2008 with 13 other militants.
He said that one of the reasons the protesters called for Khamenei to step down was frustration over his control of a financial organisation called "Setad" that was worth at least $95 billion in 2013 (according to a report from Reuters).
Rather, we do not want these things for the sake of ourselves and our religion and because reason is telling us not to do so.
The total membership of Hezbollah and closely affiliated groups grew from "several hundred" in 1983 to 2,000–3,000 in 1984 and to a few thousand in 1985.
The UNIDROIT Convention establishes conditions for claims of restitution/return of stolen or illegally exported cultural objects respectively.
The letter argued that the deal put too many limitations on IAEA access to Iranian sites, would provide Iran with $150 billion in sanctions relief much of which would surely go funding Iranian proxy groups in the Middle East, and offered too few concessions from Iran.
Obama stated that the agreement "meets every single one of the bottom lines we established when we achieved a framework earlier this spring.
Users Iran Sudan Syria Ukraine — HM 15, HM 16 and HM 19 seized from the Houthis by the United States and donated to Ukraine during the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine.
Some have more specialized training (reconnaissance, snipers) which is allegedly delivered by Hezbollah instructors.
It also undertakes scientometrics based on its databases of scientific products of Iran and Islamic countries.
The Habshan – Fujairah route secures the UAE's energy security and has the advantage of being a ground oil pipeline transportation which is considered the cheapest form of oil transportation and reduces insurance costs as oil tankers would no longer enter the Persian Gulf.
Some Iranian officials have accused the American, Israeli, and Saudi governments of being behind the attacks.
"This is the final battle, Pahlavi will return" (Persian: این آخرین نبرده، پهلوی برمی‌گرده, romanised: In âkharin nabarde, Pahlavi barmigarde) — a phrase conveying determination for regime change and the return of the Pahlavi family, chanted in Arak, Rasht, Khorramabad, Isfahan, Nahavand, and Dorud.
The Battle of Iskhabad (Persian: نبرد اسحاق‌آباد), was a major engagement fought in 940 at Iskhabad, near Ray, between the Samanids, led by Abu 'Ali Chaghani, and the combined forces of the Ziyarids and Firuzanids under the Emir Vushmgir and Makan ibn Kaki.
Provinces are divided into counties (شهرستان: shahrestān); counties are divided into districts (بخش: bakhsh); and districts are divided into rural districts (دهستان: dehestān) and cities (شهر: shahr).
Iraq undertook retaliatory measures by mistreating and evicting Iranian residents within its borders; it expelled thousands of Iranian residents and pilgrims from its territory.
Contents In about two thousand words, Khamenei discussed the reasons for the worldwide wave of terrorism, calling it "our common worry".
Many of the 110,000 policemen and police commandos under the ministry's control are suspected of being former members of the Badr Brigade.
Established in the Constitution of Iran, it has the responsibility of coordinating between the judicial branch and other branches of the government.
See also Quds Force Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Syrian civil war Qassem Soleimani Esmail Qaani Hezbollah == References ==
There were also many separate buildings on the property for family members, as well as a lily pond, four tennis courts, stables for the horses, and a rose garden.
Background The 1988 Convention was introduced following the political and sociological developments in the 1970s and 1980s.
History The National Geographical Organization of Iran was officially founded in 1951 to prepare maps and survey geographical activities.
Set Khan travelled to London to contract experts to work on the excavations, and returned with two English mining experts and twenty Greek miners.
Foreign policy Pezeshkian has supported restarting discussions with the United States over the nuclear program of Iran, vowing to revive the agreement Iran reached with the U.S.
New Development Bank In June 2012, the BRICS nations pledged $75 billion to boost the lending power of the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
Fighting briefly lulled after the 1996 conflict as Hezbollah recovered from the fighting, but Hezbollah's logistics were "resilient," and Hezbollah dramatically escalated the level of violence thereafter.
The Islamic Consultative Assembly News Agency (ICANA) is a government news agency in Iran opened in 2009.
Notes ^a Shahrdari in Persian means Municipality References Sources عملکرد شهردار اورمیه ازنگاه یک شهروند با عینک طبی
Therefore, his comprehensive approach to the Islamic political system during the absence of the Infallible Imam is extroverted and cosmopolitan.
The Official World Golf Ranking included South African Tour events in its calculations from its instigation in 1986.
The Commission served the purpose of granting amnesty to those who had violated human rights regulations during the time of apartheid as well as aim to achieve reconciliation.
The New York Times said the reports contain evidence of many abuses, including civilian deaths committed by contractors.
In order to achieve the latest science and technology news and to comply with international standards, the organization always tried to expand international relations, including with the International Labour Organization and the International Organization for Vocational Training in other countries.
In the Old Yishuv Court Museum is held a firman for the 1890 opening of the printing business of Eliezer Menahem Goldberg, Jerusalem resident.
The Iranian media are forbidden on the orders of Tehran's prosecutor from publishing pictures of Khatami, or quoting his words, on account of his support for the defeated reformist candidates in the disputed 2009 re-election of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
After the 1979 Revolution, he was arrested and taken to Evin Prison by the Islamic Republic of Iran along with seven other members of the third National Spiritual Assembly, including Jahangir Hedayati, Shapour Markazi, Farhad Asdaghi, Ardeshir Akhtari, and Amir Hassan Naderi.
Because of that in many years later, the third day of Dey (month) (23 or 24 December) has been named as National Organization for Civil Registration Day.
Australia, like most Western countries, has expressed concerns about Iran's human-rights record and its nuclear-weapons program, and has issued sanctions against Iran for abuse and violations of human rights as well as for supplying drones to assist Russia in its war against Ukraine.
On 13 June, the Commander of Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), Major General Mohammad Ali Jafari, stated that the terrorist attacks were carried out at the demand of Riyadh.
and other Western governments have raised concerns about Iran’s space program being a cover for ballistic missile development, leading to various sanctions on Iranian aerospace officials and institutions.
In addition to the Twelver Shia, the term also included Ismaili, Zaydi in Yemen, Alawi groups in Syria and Alevi groups in Turkey.
It is located at the intersection of three plates (Arab, African and Eurasian) and experts have argued that an earthquake could cause such damage to the building at Bushehr (and equipment within) that there would be an accident on a similar scale to Chernobyl.
The channel was also referred to as Tehran Channel by the citizens of Tehran, as it was only available in Tehran.
Inflation exploded, and hence we have seen the Iranian people out on the street." Iran is experiencing a mismanaged water crisis.
They are using the money to buy loyalty and create power bases." Among the questionable activities the Corps has engaged in is the operation of an "illegal airport" near Karaj City—discovered in 2005—where it imported and exported goods "without any oversight".
Like his brother, he was a member of the militant Sunni Islamist organization, which is widely recognized as a terrorist group.
Upon Raisi's death, and with the approval of the Supreme Leader of Iran, Mokhber assumed "the powers and functions of the President" as the then-incumbent first vice president.
Under Hulagu He mainted his administrative tasks under Hulagu and even punished underpaying vassals who owed them taxes, including Gvantsa Kakhaberidze, Hasan Jalal of Khachen, Zakare III Zakarian, Akhsitan II and others in 1261.
Following two bloody confrontation between Kurdish people and forces loyal to Khomeini, the Kurdish struggle turned into a war.
Twitter Twitter accounts that tweeted the letter were reported to have been temporarily suspended for sending spam messages.
Witherby Publishing Group (2023), COLREGS, Livingston, ISBN 978-1-914993-20-6{{citation}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) External links International Regulations for Preventing Collisions at Sea.
Most important, the children understand that the conflict with the Jews is not over land, but rather over religion.
collected by a variety of reputable institutions, including the World Bank and the World Economic Forum".
Social media footage documented scenes of women shouting in protest, throwing stones, and standing their ground as security forces responded with live ammunition and crowd-control weapons.
These nomads received special rights (such as reduced taxes, privileges, pasture liberties, grants of land, and salaries) in exchange for staying clear of the villages and restraining their members from bothering the settled population.
Mohammad Baquer Namazi (Persian: محمدباقر نمازی; born 3 December 1936) is an Iranian-American former civil servant who served as Governor of Khuzestan province under Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi.
Reports also stated imprisoned protesters were being tortured and raped, while women's bodies were being returned to their families with missing wombs in order to hide the crimes.
Iran has developed the capacity to reverse engineer existing foreign hardware, adapt it to its own requirements and then manufacture the finished product.
The ship proceeded without lowering the Iranian flag through the river into the Persian Gulf, completing an 80-mile journey in approximately six hours.
Eventually he moved to Karbala in the Ottoman Empire, and studied under Siyyid Kazim Rashti, then the leader of Shaykhism, for at least seven years.
Critique and review of published researches and works in the field of Iranology as well as Islamology, especially the section related to Iran.
Militaristic movements that require decision-making and action without will and want of the nations are completely rejected in this policy.
Kocharlinski brings Nizami as an example of a Tatar (later known as Azerbaijani) poet who wrote in Persian language in the light of a general trend of borrowing religion, language and literature from Persians by the Tatars (i.e.
However, when in 2017 the CIA secret files of the episode were released by the US Department of State, several documents bore out Bayandor's contentions, notably regarding Boroujerdi's active role.
Another person opened the case, triggering a bomb that set the room ablaze and killed Rajai, Bahonar, and three others.
Shams ol-Moluk Mosahab (Persian: شمس‌الملوک مصاحب, 1913–1997) was an Iranian educator and politician.
Other unstated reasons were probably more significant: Iran and Iraq had a history of interference in each other's affairs by supporting separatist movements, although this interference had ceased since the Algiers Agreement.
He was appointed secretary and deputy head of the Supreme National Security Council in October 2005.
This term has gained prominence in Iranian public and media discourse over the past two decades and is used to describe the unjust and destructive structures governing the country's water sector.
Nuclear energy Brazil supports Iran's program to develop nuclear technology for peaceful purposes, though both countries have agreed to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons.
When Ahmadinejad took the presidency in 2005, he renamed it Center for Women and Family Affairs (Markaz-e Omor-e Zanan va Khanevadeh Riasat-e Jomhuri).
He served as the deputy head of the Management and Planning Organization for three years in the government of Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani.
The government expelled the Iranian ambassador, ceased operations at the Embassy of Australia in Iran, and moved all consular staff to another country.
The New York Times also states this may be due to efforts rumoured to have started under the George W.
Iran Railways, and Iran's Ports and Maritime Organization (PMO) function under the supervision of the Ministry of Roads and Urban Development.
Mahsa Amini controversy On 13 September 2022, the Guidance Patrol arrested Mahsa Amini, a 22-year-old woman, for allegedly wearing her headscarf improperly, in a manner that allowed some of her hair to be visible.
In 2019, the Iranian Cultural Heritage, Handicrafts and Tourism Organization (ICHHTO) was converted into the Ministry.
Early life and education Alireza Arafi was born in 1959 in Maybod, Yazd, to a family of Lak-Kurdish origin.
Following his ideas and suggestions about the Holocaust, President Ahmadinejad appointed him as an advisor.
List of Tofangchi-aghasis Reign of Ismail I Mirza Shah Hossein (1516) Reign of Tahmasp I Kur Hasan (1529) ?
It was later reported that the Albanese government was aware of the Iranian involvement for months prior to the announcement.
Meetings First meeting The first meeting of foreign ministers of neighboring countries of Afghanistan was held in Pakistan on September 8, 2021 via video conference.
The "auction" was widely criticized as a formality, it was conducted behind closed doors in a single day without competitive bidding.
For Japan the incident was a morale-boosting episode in a country still emerging from postwar occupation.
Between 1950s and 1970s, he has contributed articles on international affairs to a number of American media organizations including The Miami Herald (Knight Newspapers), The Sacramento Bee (McClatchy Newspapers), and has collaborated with ABC, NBC, and CBS on a number of public affairs programs.
And the purpose of its creation is to solve the economic problems of the families of the killed people (known as "martyrs") of Iran's Islamic Revolution and the war, and the deprived.
Background When the Syrian Civil War broke out, various rebel factions took control of much of eastern Syria.
Second resolution on the draft convention The second resolution on the draft convention on the suppression and punishment of the crime of apartheid took place in the 27th session of the General Assembly, 2085th plenary meeting, 15 November 1972.
He subsequently assumed additional roles within Iran’s religious and political institutions, including, in 2015, his appointment as Friday prayer leader of Qom.
Membership in the Guardian Council On July 14, 2013, Najatollah Ebrahimiyan, along with Sam Savadkouhi-Far (with 147 votes) and Mohsen Esmaeili (with 237 votes), was elected as a jurist member of the Guardian Council by the Parliament, securing 130 votes.
As an Istifta'at the policy is included on Khamenei's official website, and was referred to in remarks by both U.S.
On August 27, 2013, Mohammad Khamenei appointed Fathollah Mojtabaei, Reza Davari Ardakani, Gholamreza Aavani, Mohammad-Hassan Nami, Hekmatullah Mulla Salehi, and Mohammad Reza Mokhber Dezfouli as members of the Board of Trustees of the Iranology Foundation.
This is a list of Iranian provincial general-governors External links List of provincial governors on official website of Iranian Ministry of Interior (In Persian), updated with newer information
Trust-building The group was also used as a way for Iran to build trust among the tribal communities of Bedouins in Eastern Syria.
2024 Tuba program In August 2024, Minister of Islamic Culture and guidance ordered 1,500 missionary personnel for hijab and chastity to be employed and trained by government called Mujahideen Fatimi.
He had served three terms in the parliament and was expected to have the lead in the parliament election in early 2012.
Construction and commissioning Khadang was built by French Constructions Mécaniques de Normandie at Cherbourg, as one of the first six contracted on 19 February 1974.
The International Convention on the Control of Harmful Anti-fouling Systems in Ships (AFS Convention) is a 2001 International Maritime Organization (IMO) treaty whereby states agree to prohibit the use of harmful anti-fouling paints and other anti-fouling systems that contain harmful substances.
On 27 August, Home Affairs Minister Tony Burke rejected the Iranian government's claims that Israeli interference had prompted the Australian government to expel Iran's ambassador.
Army and later Air Force officers of the Army Mission Iran and later Military Assistance Advisory Group Iran (ARMISH-MAAG) were closely involved in providing a range of advice, support, and reorganizational assistance.
Quds Force The elite Quds Force (or Jerusalem Force), sometimes described as the successor to the Shah's Imperial Guards, is estimated to be 2,000–5,000 in number.
During the 2019 protests in Iran over rising gasoline prices, the NOPO unit reportedly fired automatic weapons at unarmed protesters, including women and children.
The president is elected for a four-year term in a national election by universal adult suffrage by Iranians of at least 18 years of age, and can only be reelected once if in a consecutive manner.
The cabinet of Mokhber was inherited from the cabinet of Ebrahim Raisi; their main responsibility was then to hold a new presidential election; the first round was held on 28 June 2024 and the second round on 5 July 2024.
On April 10, 1974, he was appointed Deputy Prime Minister of Iran and the first president of its atomic energy organization.
He was born as the oldest son of the former prime minister Hajji Mohammad Hossein Isfahani (1758–1823).
Then he joined the Ministry of National Economy and served as the deputy director of Iran-American Joint Fund for Economic Development and as the deputy minister of state for foreign assistance.
A key difference is that the SDM will be available to all parties as opposed to only Annex-I parties, making it much wider in scope.
On 23 April, five more fighters were killed.An estimated 70 fighters were killed between November 2014 and March 2016.
Etymology Farmān is the modern Persian form of the word and descends from Middle Persian (Pahlavi) framān, ultimately from Old Persian framānā (fra = "fore").
To this end, the operator must submit a dossier demonstrating how the facility will operate, minimizing the impact on man and the environment, and controlling the associated risks.
In addition, they believe that in 1942 Taqizadeh attempted to bring about a close relationship between Iran and the United States in order to guarantee a balance of powers conducive to Iran's independence.
Its implementation was suspended following 10 days of widespread demonstrations across Iran in October 2008.
Also targeted were the "Iranian Cyber Police" and the "Communications Regulatory Authority" which the Treasury Department describes as authorities created three years ago to filter Web sites and monitor Internet behavior while blocking Web sites deemed objectionable by the Iranian government.
External links The Myth of the Shia Crescent, Project Syndicate (May 2008) When the Shia Rise, Foreign Affairs (July/August 2006) Shia Crescent on Facebook (Research from Shia point of view 2014)
Analysts have drawn parallels to the 2022 "Bloody Friday" incident in Zahedan, during which Iranian security forces fatally shot dozens of Balochi protesters.
Islamic Republic of Iran and Communist Albania Following the establishment of Islamic theocracy in Iran at 1979, Albania, being a communist state, aligned with the Soviets against Iran in the Iran–Iraq War.
Origins and background The abnāʾ emerged from the Arab military colonies established in Khorasan during the early Islamic conquests in the 7th century.
Following the assassination of supreme leader Ali Khamenei on 28 February 2026, during the 2026 Israeli–United States strikes on Iran, Arafi was named to a three-member Interim Leadership Council, which acted as the country's paramount leadership until the next supreme leader was elected.
Taqizadeh was also a prominent scholar; his studies on Iranian calendars remain reference work up until now.
Analysts have termed Iran's aggressive courting of Sri Lanka's military capacity as a geostragetic implication of Iran's "Look east" strategy.
Around 8,000 Iranian traders and trading firms are registered in the UAE, according to the local Iranian Business Council.
He maintained close coordination with Russian representatives, seeing their support as a necessary counterweight to British influence and a means of preserving central authority amid growing provincial unrest.
In addition, large numbers of Shia Pakistani fighters have fought on the pro-government side as part of the Zeinabiyoun Brigade, which had up to 1,000 fighters in Syria.
The top graduates of the class were selected by Reza Shah to go straight to the Imperial Guard, an honour given only to the top five graduates.
The Central Bank of Russia highlighted the main benefits as backup and redundancy in case there were disruptions to the SWIFT system.
Ethnic views and women affairs Pezeshkian emphasizes the rights of ethnic groups such as Azeris, Kurds, and Baluchis and states that the rights of these groups should be protected.
She escaped through a window and went to join Beavers at his residence, then at his mother's house in Spring.
In April 2025, the Dutch government summoned Iran's ambassador following the exposure of two assassination attempts linked to Tehran.
On 15 August 2022, Secretary-General António Guterres appointed former Grenadian climate minister Simon Stiell as Executive Secretary, replacing Espinosa.
Husbands would have to apply to a court for a non-reconciliation certificate first, and then the court would negotiate between the two parties.
There are 88 embassies in Tehran, and many countries maintain consulates in other Iranian cities (not including honorary consulates).
Established in 1976, it belongs to the Iran Aviation Industries Organization (IAIO) and is located at Shahin Shahr, Isfahan province.
pharmaceutical agents and many common pesticides), and triethanolamine, used in the manufacture of nitrogen mustard but also commonly used in toiletries and detergents.
The "thought" behind this slogan is considered by some to be the continuation of the policy of "exporting" the Iranian revolution by Khomeini to other countries in the region.
In the twentieth century, the Shah of Persia, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, officially adopted the title شاهنشاه Šâhanšâh and, in western languages, the rendering Emperor.
The organization added that "while the population faces mass casualties from bombardment, the authorities continue to weaponize the death penalty to silence dissent." == References ==
Death sentence Rigi was supposed to have been executed in 2009 with others, but was only executed on May 24, 2010, by hanging in Zahedan's jail in front of his victims' relatives.
Relations between Iran and Khwarazm were at this time strained by mutual distrust, the Khan of Khiva having been accused of supporting the Salar Revolt and conducting raids on Northern Khorasan some years prior.
The section concludes with the idea that the institution and organization of the Financial Commission must be in accordance with the Law.
After the United States withdrawal from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action during the Trump presidency and US sanctions against Iran, the shortage halted the program halfway, causing the replacement national scheme to be a failure.
In the assessment of the historian Martin Sprengling, "Salih ibn Abdalrahman remains a sad, lonely figure, outstanding, of most extraordinary ability, rising for his moment to heights far above the average, then melting completely out of sight".
Dealing with the power and reach of the modern state there has been a tendency of scholars to choose between two directions: either "giving ground" to the state and limiting the performance of forbidding; or confronting the state "in the name of Islam".
Order of Nasr (Persian: نشان نصر, meaning Divine Support) is a military award of Iranian armed forces which is awarded by Commander-in-chief, Supreme Leader of Iran to recognize distinguished logistics contribution and support of the troops.
The day after the Prime Minister was received, his dismissal was voted on at a meeting of the Central Council, and his dismissal was decided by an overwhelming majority.
Therefore, with the approval of the Islamic Consultative Assembly on 23 May 1984, the "Iranian Blood Transfusion Organization" was announced as the sole custodian of blood supply and blood products in Iran.
United Nations' involvement Backed openly from 1967 onwards by the United Nations, government and grassroots movements attempted to form a united front with the oppressed peoples of South Africa against its tyrannical government.
Drug manufacture and distribution Much of the treaty is devoted to fighting organized crime by mandating cooperation in tracing and seizing drug-related assets.
He implemented policies pressuring companies alleged to have links with businesses who trade with Israel, such as Coca-Cola, Nestle and Benetton.
Later years, personal life and death Ansari left Iran after the regime change in 1979 and settled in Paris, France.
The Gunich Village raid in Khash was a coordinated raid by Iranian Security Forces on the village of Gunich in the Khash city on 1 July 2025, which resulted in the deaths of 2 women, namely "Khan Bibi Bamri" and "Lal Bibi Bamri" along with the injury of 10 others.
Russia After the break-up of the Soviet Union some encyclopaedias in Russian language continue to refer to Nizami as an Azerbaijani poet.
Iran International reported that on 2 January 2026, Iraqi militias affiliated with the Iranian government recruited forces to assist Iranian security forces in suppressing protests in Iran.
Since the Islamic Revolution in Iran in 1979, various groups and factions, both pro and anti with the revolution, have formed and disintegrated.
Then the Ministry of Post, Telegraph, and Telephone was formed after the government purchased the stocks of the only Telephone Company.
The main parts of the original building were destroyed in a fire in 1933, which was followed by a major flood.
In Georgia, he mastered Russian and French as well, and learned military sciences and Cossack Cavalry tactics.
While in Lebanon, the group received training, support and other backing from Hezbollah and its backers in Iran, and developed a close relationship with the organization.
He is noted for being the author of four comedies, which, for a long period of time had erroneously been attributed to the diplomat and advocate of modernization Mirza Malkam Khan (died 1908).
He was acting mayor of Tehran, deputy head of the judiciary in charge of the real estate and documents registration organization from 1989 to 1997.
Born in Bandar-e Deyr, Bushehr province, Bushehri is the representative of Bushehr province in the Assembly of Experts; he is also the Temporary Imam of Friday Prayer in Qom.
The death penalty is legal for those above 18, and if a murder was committed, legal at the age of 15.
Shortly thereafter, Iran launched Operation Martyr Soleimani targeting the Al Asad Airbase and Erbil airbase in Iraq with ballistic missiles as a direct retaliation for Soleimani's killing.
During the 2026 Iran war, by 2 March, according to the wife of Mostafa Mohammadhasan, a political prisoner in Evin Prison, NOPO had taken over control of the prison from the usual prison staff.
Taleghani continued his studies in Qom, studying the same subject at the Razaviya and Feyziyeh schools.
In recognition of this achievement, Sulayman was appointed as the head of Syria's fiscal administration, replacing the Melkite Christian veteran Sarjun ibn Mansur.
A Revolutionary Court had found him guilty of enmity against God and of wounding a member of a paramilitary force with a machete.
See also The history of the parliament in Iran National Democratic Front (Iran) Comrades Party List of grand viziers of Persia Women in the Parliament of Iran == References ==
On 25 December 2015, he announced he will retiring from his seat in Iranian Parliament after he declined to run in the 2016 election.
The ministry manages exportation of motion pictures produced in Iran and the importation of films produced outside Iran, including cinematographic and television films.
Accordingly, Symth and ex-Herat Province governor Abdul Qayoum Rahim claimed in 2020 that Liwa Fatemiyoun had begun deployment to other localities around the Middle East without providing firm evidence.
He was head of the Imam Khomeini Relief Foundation from 2015 to 2019 and head of the Mostazafan Foundation from 2019 to 2023.
He retained the post when a military government led by Gholam Reza Azhari was formed on 6 November 1978.
By the 1990s, the end of the Cold War and normalisation of relations between some countries improved the prospects for creating a rail network across the Asian continent.
She started her career as a social activist by helping Afghan children and women in refugee camps back in Pakistan.
The Armenian noble, Sempad Orpelian, justified Arghun completely and charged his enemy, a Khorazmi lieutenant, with being the real offender.
On the same day, at least five police personnel were killed and several others injured in multiple attacks at various different locations in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
Prominent courtiers prepared the throne and preserved the treasures and governing system until the arrival of the new king in the capital, Tehran.
Summary National Security and Nuclear Diplomacy consists of 12 chapters and 7 appendices on 1,209 pages and is the first comprehensive book so far published on Iran's nuclear energy program, and is considered an oral history book.
On May 31, the National Consultative Assembly (Parliament) approved the bill for the establishment of the inspection organization.
Thus, reaffirming that apartheid constitutes a total negation of the principles of the UN, and recognizes the continual need for efforts to suppress and punish the apartheid.
Traditional conservatives are a political faction that helped form the Revolutionary government and can point to personal ties with Ruhollah Khomeini.
Meanwhile, the Syrian transitional government began prosecuting individuals who it alleged had committed crimes during the Syrian civil war.
The Islamic Republic of Iran Navy is equipped with two variants of this craft, one for combat and one for transport missions, of which the Tondar is the combat type.
This new center was established with the mission of collecting and analyzing information related to the country of Iran.
The leadership in Tehran believed that they would launch a massive Shiite uprising across the Middle East and after Iraq's defeat, march on Israel and destroy it.
He is sanctioned by Canada, the United States and the European Union for alleged involvement in terrorism and nuclear proliferation.
In 2002, Iran founded the "Koran Foundation of Kosovo" with aim to drive Albanians in both Albania and Kosovo to abandon its secularism and support a Shi'a theocracy, but it was unsuccessful; Albanian police even launched crackdowns on the foundation.
He was appointed foreign minister to the cabinet led by Jafar Sharif-Emami on 27 August 1978, replacing Abbas Ali Khalatbari in the post.
He took classes in Islamic jurisprudence and Principles of Islamic jurisprudence with Hossein Borujerdi and Ruhollah Khomeini, as well as Islamic philosophy with Muhammad Husayn Tabatabai.
Ekhtesassi Palace The Ekhtesassi Palace was designed in 1938 by two Jewish Hungarian architects from the British Mandate of Palestine (present-day Israel), Laszlo Fischer and Ferenc Bodanzky, who also designed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs building in the National Garden.
Sanctioning and obtaining national or international loans or grants by the government requires ratification from the Islamic Consultative Assembly.
RICeST allocated about one million and 600 thousand dollars each year to purchase journals in languages other than Persian.
In the late 2010s, the countries made minor agreements in the fields of mining, rural development, trade policy, and agriculture.
The Popular Resistance of the Eastern Region uses Facebook to post content and has posted pictures and videos of supporters expressing their approval of the movement in ways such as raising Syrian flags, pictures of leaflets with pro-group writings and video statements.
Retirement The retirement age was increased from approximately 30 to around 40 years of service in an effort to address the imbalance in the pension fund.
At the same time, he together with the writer and poet Saeed Nafisi, the poet and historian Gholam-Reza Rashid Yasemi the historian Abbas Eqbāl Ashtiāni, and his talented friend Abdolhossein Teymourtash founded The Literary Association of the academy (Anjoman-e Adabi-ye Dāneshkadeh).
Other uses The term "firman" was used by the archeologist/novelist Elizabeth Peters for official permission from the Egyptian Department of Antiquities to carry on an excavation.
Many reformist or opposition candidates are excluded from running, limiting voter choice to candidates who support the existing power structure.
Entezam was given the title Ambassador Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary by the United States in 1950 for serving as a diplomat at the Embassy in the USA.
After gaining Sulayman's approval for the construction, Salih had a taller, less expensive palace built, the first in the city to consist of baked brick and gypsum.
The recruits are given just a few weeks of training, armed, and flown to Syria via the Iran–Iraq–Syria air bridge.
Meugertitch Khan Davidkhanian served as the governor of Khorramshahr in 1927, and was appointed the military governor of Dezful during the Iran-Iraq War, by Ruhollah Khomeini, serving as the local commander during Operation Nasr until his death in 1983.
"Tens of thousands" attended his funeral in what was reportedly "Iran's biggest anti-government protest for years".
According to the Iranian semi-official Fars News agency, Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman Bahram Qassemi said on Monday (4 December 2017) that an Iranian border guard was killed and four others were injured in Maku, Iran, near the border with Turkey.
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was the sixth President of Iran which governed during his second term within the tenth Government of Islamic Republic of Iran.
He was one of two students shot dead during the February 14, 2011 demonstrations in support of Egyptians and Tunisians for ousting Presidents Hosni Mubarak and Ben Ali, in Tehran, Iran.
The United States Air Forces Central Command announced that F-15C Eagle fighter jets were repositioned within the region to "defend U.S.
In 2022, Iran-backed Houthis fired multiple missiles and drones at Abu Dhabi targeting oil tankers and an under-construction airport infrastructure in response to territorial losses to Emirati-trained Giants Brigade in Yemen.
If they enter, they will be sentenced to the fifth-degree of imprisonment and deportation from the country.
Since the International Atomic Energy Agency began investigating Iranian nuclear activities in 2002, the IAEA has discovered a series of clandestine nuclear activities, some of which violated Iran's safeguards agreement with the agency.
According to Tabari, the scale of the battle was said to have rivalled the battle of Nahavand, As according to G.
In March 1959, a law came into effect requiring periodic censuses of the income and property of all civil servants and military personnel.
The United Nations Human Rights Council has reported that "lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender children are subjected to electric shocks and the administration of hormones and strong psychoactive medications".
In a statement to IRNA Javanfekr complained "They arrested some of our reporters and took them away and hit one of my colleagues with an electric baton.
This attack injured one member of the synagogue's congregation, and dealt $45 million in property damages, with repairs later partially funded by the government.
Trade Promotion Organization The Trade Promotion Organization is affiliated to the Ministry of Commerce.
A later lawsuit filed in 2021 by the United States linked MTN Irancell to the funding and arming of terrorist groups, directly contributing to American casualties between 2011 and 2016.
On March 3, 2025, the Islamic Resistance Front in Syria warned Israeli forces to withdraw from the demilitarized zone in the Golan Heights and Southern Syria threatening action.
In its first statement, the group framed its actions as struggle against the "tyrannical American enemy" and pro-American "terrorists from all corners of the earth" [i.e.
At that time the tunnel was isolated from rail network but finally got connected with the completion of Marmaray project in 2019.
Shortly after Elghanian's execution, the United States Senate passed a resolution authored by New York Senator Jacob Javits to condemn his execution as well as that of other civilians as a violation of human rights in Iran.
Its duty is "protection, conservation, reclamation, development and utilization of forests, rangelands, forested lands, natural woods and coastal lands, as well as watershed management and soil conservation throughout the country." It is the authority responsible for combating against deforestation.
The Islamic Republic of Iran Air Defense Force (Persian: نیروی پدافند هوایی ارتش جمهوری اسلامی ایران, romanized: Niruye Pədâfənde Həvâyiye Ərteše Jomhuriye Eslâmiye Irân) is the anti-aircraft warfare branch of Iran's regular military, the Islamic Republic of Iran Army (Artesh).
official said "the United States has not recognized a right to enrich for the Iranian government, nor do we intend to.
Order of Art (Persian: نشان هنر) is one of the most honorable and customary badges in the Islamic Republic of Iran Armed Forces, which is awarded to encourage activists of the Armed Forces in cultural and artistic affairs.
In 1997, ECOSOC called on nations to help enforce international law by cooperating "with relevant international organizations, such as Interpol and the World Customs Organization .
Currently, none of these vessels, identified by their IMO numbers, are registered under their previous flags.
Iran–Contra affair In the 1980s, Ghorbanifar's initial American contacts were National Security Council agents Oliver North and Michael Ledeen.
An ethnic Armenian and member of the Davidkhanian family in Iran, he was a prominent military figure in Pahlavi-era Iran, serving as governor of Khorramshahr and Dezful under the rule of Reza Shah and Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, respectively.
Role and responsibilities The secretary of the Supreme National Security Council functions as the executive head and administrative coordinator of the council.
On 21 November 2017, Iran declared victory over IS, and subsequently started to downsize Liwa Fatemiyoun.
Iranian journalist Mohammad Mosaed, who "reported extensively on government corruption, embezzlement, economic sanctions, labour and popular protests", was sentenced to four years and nine months in prison in 2021.
Under the former leadership of Ramadan Shalah, the group would receive approximately US$70 million per year from the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps of Iran.
August 25, 2014: Iran had implemented three of the five specific steps agreed with the IAEA in May 2014 but failed to meet the deadline of 25 August on the other steps.
As the new judicial structure of the Islamic Republic was devised and formalized, the SCC were not conceived as part of it.
[Saudi] Arabia is first, Iran and Iraq are second and third, and that approximately 70 percent of the worlds oil is located where the Shia live or about 80 percent is where the Shia live.
All embassy staff, including diplomatic and security personnel, were ordered to leave Albania within 24 hours, in note delivered to the Iranian embassy in Tirana.
An editorial published by The New York Times on 4 August characterized the exercise as "More fantastic and farcical than any ever held under Hitler or Stalin", and an effort by Mosaddegh "to make himself unchallenged dictator of the country".
After that, he served as the CEO of the Social Security Organization from June 2019 to September 2021.
This center has access to the classified information of the Foreign Ministry, Intelligence Ministry and Defense Ministry of Iran.
From about 1737 AD, a special place was allocated to the library but a serious attention was paid to it in the early period of 20th century.
In 2003, the president of Kazakhstan proposed building a standard gauge link from Dostyk (on the Chinese border) to Gorgan in Iran; it has not yet been built.
One of them was the Ministry of Information which had replaced the Department of Publications and Broadcasting.
Ayatollah Mohammad Reza Tavassoli (Persian: محمدرضا توسلی; 1931 – 16 February 2008) was an influential Iranian theologian, reformist politician, and a close associate of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.Tavassoli was a member of the Expediency Discernment Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
In May 2024 the Argentine Foreign Ministry officially announced that Interpol had issued a red notice for the arrest of Vahidi in connection with the AMIA bombing.
In 2018, Ghorbani resigned as representative of the Supreme Leader, as well the Friday Prayer leader in Rasht, after the controversy surrounding the Adineh Rasht Complex.
These contributions are shared between insured individuals, employers, and the state, in proportions defined by statute.
This has led some modern scholars to question whether the abnāʾ existed as a clearly defined group before the 9th century.
Programming is not restricted to politics and news, but scientific and social documentaries, clips, and game shows also.
National Communication reports are often several hundred pages long and cover a country's measures to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions as well as a description of its vulnerabilities and impacts from climate change.
From a developing country perspective, a lack of data and information about the sources, releases, and environmental levels of POPs hampers negotiations on specific compounds, and indicates a strong need for research.
The closure was done after a professor, Davoud Hermidas-Bavand, described eye-for-an-eye punishment as "inhumane." Aseman was aligned with the country's then-President Hassan Rouhani.
They toned down their behaviour and received visits from more-senior DRFLA members for training and support.
On 11 September 2007 the Non-Aligned Movement rejected any "interference" in Iran's nuclear transparency deal with U.N.
The shooting occurred in front of the London Pub, a popular gay bar and nightclub, the bar Per på hjørnet, and a takeaway restaurant in-between both bars.
As a result, four resolutions (N° 1696, 1737, 1747 and 1803) were put in place by the United Nations Security Council: they demanded to suspend all Uranium-235 enrichment and heavy water activities and restricted acquisition of nuclear and ballistic materials by Iran.
Increase cooperation between diverse opposition factions Create a framework for a potential transitional political system.
He was described as "the single most powerful operative in the Middle East" and a "genius of asymmetric warfare".
In regions like southern Tehran, subsidence has reached up to 31 cm per year—damaging infrastructure and buildings.
Another subsidiary style of the Ottoman and Mughal rulers was Shah-i Alam Panah (Persian: شاه عالم پناه), meaning "the king that is the refuge of the world." The Shah-Armens ("Kings of Armenia", sometimes known as Ahlahshahs), used the title Shāh-i Arman (lit.
According to the BBC, while the original idea behind Quds Day was to gather all Muslims in opposition to the existence of Israel, the event has not developed beyond an Iranian experience.
On 27 October, 2025, the group claimed to have carried out a drone and rocket attack against US forces in the Al Tanf garrison.
The announcement of sanctions met very harsh criticism among Serbian media and political writers and reflected a divide between the actions of the Serbian government and the opinions of Serbian citizens.
Mechanisms include hard power, soft power, and smart power to achieve hard security, soft security, and smart security.
Sodomy Few consenting participants of sodomy (lavāt) are sentenced to death, but prior to 2012, both partners could receive the death penalty.
Eshkevari, (who was defrocked and served several years in prison after being convicted by the Court of "spreading lies and insulting Islamic sanctities" among other charges) states the SCC "contradicts the modern law system" and "is clearly" guilty of "discrimination against the justice".
After the approval of this plan in the parliament with the favourable vote of all representatives, the Guardian Council approved it on 20 May 2020 and notified the completion of the law's drafting to the president for official implementation.
Forgery of Israeli passport on TV After the hanging of Fashi, the image of an Israeli passport affixed with his photo was shown on the 20:30 news program of the Islamic Republic of Iran TV.
In case that the Parliament and the Council dispute over a blocked bill and refuse to accept positions by each other, the bill is submitted to the Expediency Discernment Council of the System, set up to resolve the conflicts.
Reports compare the Gunich raid evoked memories of the 2022 "Bloody Friday" massacre in Zahedan, where dozens of Baluch protesters were killed by Iranian security forces.
His lectures left indelible impressions on legions of medical students many of whom today live and practice outside of Iran.
Entezam died shortly after on 19 December 1980, though sources cannot seem to agree where he passed beyond it being in Tehran: at his house, at his sister's house, in prison, or at the hospital.
Economic activity The Foundations economic activity includes participation in a joint venture with the Industrial Development and Renovation Organization and Iran Electronics Industries' Defense Ministry subsidiary, the Iran Electronic Development Company.
Claims The IRGC claimed that the device can be used to detect moments of the coronavirus within a 100 m (330 ft) radius using electromagnetic radiation, with an accuracy rate of 80%.
Resolving the problems, which cannot be solved by conventional methods, through the Nation's Expediency Discernment Council.
Coalition Youth of 14 Feb Revolution (Arabic: إئتلاف شباب ثورة 14 فبراير), sometimes called The Coalition (Arabic: الإئتلاف) is a Bahraini youth group, named after the date of the beginning of Bahrain's uprising, and led by anonymous individuals who organize protests chiefly via new-media sites.
The assembly has gone down into the Iranian history as the country's first parliament 26 years before the Constitutional Revolution led to the formation of a parliament where people sent their representatives.
Founding According to reports, the group was founded in 2021 by Shia Syrians in Abu Kamal, Eastern Syria, with backing from Iran.
So such power, once considered Divine Grace, has now been reduced to an earthly power that can be criticized and evaluated by earthly beings.
Masoud Nosrati (Persian: مسعود نصرتی قزوینی‌نژاد) is an Iranian politician and the Deputy Resources and Support of Organization of municipalities and government agencies Development.
Iraq also relied on Jordan during this time for use of its ports, as the UN had placed sanctions on Iraq for the invasion of Kuwait.
He lived in Najaf for forty-five years and he was also considered as a professor at Najaf's Seminary." Migration from Najaf to Lar In the late Naser al-Din Shah Qajar era, intense conflicts and insecurity arising from its local rulers and politicians as well as tax abuses.
It was established as Regional Library of Science and Technology (RLST) in 1991 by agreement between Iran's Ministry of Culture and Higher Education and the Third-World Academy of Sciences, with professor Jafar Mehrad as the director.
The heads of the judiciary, state radio and television networks, the commanders of the police and military forces, and six of the twelve members of the Council of Guardians are appointed by the Supreme Leader.
The siege of Edessa took place in 163 when the Parthian Empire, under Vologases IV, besieged the city of Edessa, held by the Roman Empire.
Russo-Persian War (1804) In 1804, a few months after the Russian invasion of Persia, the Russian army under the command of Pavel Tsitsianov approached Persian Armenia, while running short of necessities such as food and equipment.
In 2016, 166 candidates were approved by the Guardians, out of 801 who applied to run for the office.
E-commerce Neither the Electronic Commerce Law of 2004 nor any other Iranian legislation deals specifically with taxation arising from e-commerce.
Karim Fayzi, Safire Sedaghat: Zendegie, Afkar va Andishehaie Hamid Mowlana (Envoy of Truth), Daftare Nashre Farhang Islami Publications, Tehran, 1381 (2002).
Career Davidkhanian first fought in the Turkish-Armenian War as a volunteer for the First Republic of Armenia.
The council suffered from the weakness of democratic accountability, lack of administrational and financial autonomy and limited scope of authority.
Examples of Ottoman firmans Firman of Murad (26 October – 23 November 1386) In this firman, Sultan Murad I recognises a decree created by his father Sultan Orhan (c.
Rank insignia chart Officers Enlisted See also Military insignia Military ranks of Iran == References ==
In addition to its rocket capabilities, the Tondar possesses advanced reconnaissance features, as it can independently launch drones for both reconnaissance and attack missions.
In total 450 members of AAH have been handed over from US to Iraqi custody since the kidnapping of Peter Moore, over 250 of which have been released by the Iraqi authorities.
Many scholars have strongly emphasised and documented that Bahār's style of writing and the beauty of his poetry, in addition to his deep passion for Iran and his persistent opposition to fanaticism, have indeed made him one of the greatest cultural icons of modern Iran.
As Iranian ambassador to China Rahmani Fazli was appointed Iran's new ambassador to China in May 2025.
Many Iranians quoted Sattar Khan, who was an Azerbaijani and an important figure in the Iranian Constitutional Revolution, and is thus considered to be a national hero in Iran.
Judge Khalkhali stated "The revolutionary courts were born out of the anger of the Iranian people and these people will not accept any principles outside Islamic principles".
A member of the High Judiciary Council, Bojnourdi, spoke to the crowd and stated that visitations would resume at Gohardasht prison, but that those at Evin were banned until stated otherwise.
Although Iraq placed its army on high alert in nearby Basra, it was unable to threaten the Iranian vessel.
He pioneered a bond-based economy, which many believe was responsible for a fair distribution of goods among the people throughout the Iran–Iraq War.
2011–12 Iranian protests: Protest against alleged electoral fraud during 2009 elections, violation of human rights, lack of freedom of speech, corruption.
During his time, contracts were signed in the field of oil and gas and the country's railway industries, and he put the entry into the manufacturing of medical devices for health and electric cars on the agenda.
Bush Deportation of Iranian students at US airports Correspondence between Barack Obama and Ali Khamenei United States Cultural Diplomacy in Iran Cyberwarfare and Iran United States sanctions against Iran References External links Is shutdown of CIA Iran Mission Center meant to signal ‘goodwill’?
In reaction to the recent anti-government protests, Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei said "rioters must be put in their place".
A similar authority was cited by Austen Henry Layard for excavations at Nimrud which he mistakenly believed was Nineveh.
Both Sina Bank and MTN Irancell were involved in international scandals concerning activities that took place during Mokhber's tenure, which contributed to sanctions of Mokhber, Sina Bank and Mostazafan (see Corruption and Abuse of Power, and Sanctions).
He was a presidential candidate at the 2017 election which placed third with receiving 1.16% of the votes.
See also History of Iran References Sources Aḥmad Eqtedāri, Kārvān-e ʿomr: ḵāṭerāt-e siāsi-farhangi-e haftād sāl ʿomr, Tehran, 1993, pp.
These include Mohammad Rostami Cheshmeh Gachi, chief of Iran's Morality Police, Haj Ahmad Mirzaei, head of the Tehran division of the Morality Police, and other Iranian security officials.
Najatollah Ebrahimiyan (Persian: نجات‌الله ابراهیمیان; born September 1964) holds a doctorate in law from France.
A report by CIA dated February 1976 stated that in mid-1974 Khosravani was secretly assigned by the Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi to analyse the status of the Iran Novin Party to reorganize it.
In a 2014 interview, former commander Colonel Saeed Askari responded to these views: "Keep in mind, a center known for strictness for 30 to 40 years can't change its reputation overnight.
On 8 June, the government released photographs of five deceased assailants and disclosed their first names; additional information such as their surnames were held back for security purposes.
At this stage, the input data is evaluated and analyzed and then stored in a standard format in databases.
United States Department of State, Foreign Relations of the United States, 1958–60, Washington, D.C., 1993.
This disposable rocket launcher is in an 80mm caliber version and the effective range of this disposable rocket-launcher is approximately 250 meters.
Trade According to the above-mentioned January 2006 document, Iran and Cuba expanded cooperation in several commercial, banking, agriculture, health and cultural fields.
The mission of the DOE is to protect and improve the environment of Iran for present and future generations.
has sent signals to Iran that its posturing against Israel's right to exist is unacceptable in their opinion, leading to increased speculation of a U.S.
The Iranian territory was inherited by his son Qutlugh Inanj, but the office of atabeg went by seniority to his brother Qizil Arslan, who treated the young adult Sultan Toghril as a puppet, while favouring another of Pahlawan's sons, Abu Bakr.
They established the Coastal Brigade near the Latakia Mountains in the Latakia Governorate to fight against Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham (HTS) in their original stronghold.
One with either a single or a double Toophan anti-tank missile launcher, with six reload missiles in storage baskets.
2003 plane crash On 22 February 2003 an IRGC aircraft crashed near Kerman, killing all 302 people on board, all of whom were personnel of the 41st Division.
There, he read parts of a controversial poem, which, tapping into themes of Azerbaijani irredentism and pan-Turkism, subtly suggested a territorial affinity between Iranian Azerbaijan and the Republic of Azerbaijan.
Chapter eight, Beginning of Negotiations and a Chance to Create Opportunity, discusses the performance of three working groups which were established following Paris agreement.
Unlike the CLC, the BUNKER Convention is not limited to persistent fuel oils and will apply to any hydrocarbon used to operate the ship.
Accounts on social media have claimed that the group is affiliated with the Popular Mobilization Forces.
The Psychology of Genocide and Violent Oppression: A Study of Mass Cruelty from Nazi Germany to Rwanda.
See also List of members in the First Term of the Council of Experts List of members in the Second Term of the Council of Experts List of members in the Third Term of the Council of Experts List of ayatollahs Karamatollah Malek-Hosseini == References ==
In the work, Khomeini argued that government must be run in accordance with traditional Islamic sharia, and for this to happen a leading Islamic jurist (faqih) must provide political "guardianship" (wilayat or velayat) over the people.
Aliabadi's most important action in Mapna was trying to develop this company from power plant projects to other projects.
According to the Austrian police, the apartment had been rented by an individual with a Turkish passport for three months.
Accordingly, from the very beginning of the Iranian revolution of 1979, the export of the revolution was considered as one of the main goals of it.
Marines along with French and Italian units that would ensure the departure of the PLO and protect defenseless civilians.
During this period Tafazzoli was a member of the Majlis in the 18th term representing Birjand for the People's Party led by Asadollah Alam.
In 1971, the organization changed its name to its current one, and notably has hosted the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands of International Importance in the city of Ramsar on the same year.
Also, professional offices are supported by "Professional Advisors Council" of offices in various study fields with technical and scientific evaluation of their studies done.
Article 74 Government bills are submitted to the Majlis after being approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, and Majlis member bills may be submitted to the Majlis for consideration at the request of at least 15 MMs.
Compared to the 1991 code, the 2013 code has been described as containing improved provisions for the rehabilitation of offenders, although still falling short in this area.
If a murderer was working on the orders of another and he/she can prove it, they will receive a tazir punishment (imprisonment, fines and/or whipping, sometimes even death), while the person(s) who ordered the killing will suffer qisas/diyyeh.
The Organization for the Protection of Consumers and Producers The Organization for the Protection of Consumers and Producers (OPCP) is affiliated to the Ministry of Commerce.
Mohammad Khatami received a BA in Western philosophy at Isfahan University, but left academia while studying for a master's degree in educational sciences at Tehran University and went to Qom to complete his previous studies in Islamic sciences.
A senior Sadrist official and former member of Parliament, said that convoys of buses from Najaf, under the cover story of pilgrims, were carrying weapons and fighters to Damascus.
Abu al-Tayyib's place in the century's intellectual heritage has been amply demonstrated by al-Maqrizi: Abu Hamid was the first Shafiʿite leader, followed by Abu al-Tayyib.
The site has been struck multiple times by the Israeli Air Force after which the construction of tunnels was noticed to have accelerated, and would soon be operational, as of November 2019.
Less than a year later, Ivan Mrkić traveled to Tehran to represent Serbia at the 16th Summit of the Non-Aligned Movement.
Later reporting indicated the death toll had risen to 18, six of whom were members of the central committee of HDK.
Notable people Former and first Minister of Ministry of Cooperatives, Labor and Social Welfare (Ministry of C.L.S.) Reza Sheykoleslam was a governor of Hormozgan Province.
Erdogan was not informed that what he ill-recited in Baku refers to the forcible separation of areas north of Aras from Iranian motherland.
It requires alterations to be consistent with the concept of good seamanship, as well as be sufficient to be observed by the other vessel, i.e., a large and bold angle of course alteration.
Britain wanted to maintain Iran politically and economically stable so that India could use it as a defensive stronghold.
It has a maximum capacity of around 2 million barrels (320,000 m3) per day, over three-quarters of the UAE's 2012 production rate.
Appointed wazir-e a'zam in January 1904 and confirmed as full premier by September, he stepped into the role after having already served as minister of the interior from 1903.
Mehdi Karroubi and Mir Hossein Mousavi organized the office to support the victims of torture in Iranian prisons.
Sa'at Tower also known as Tabriz Municipality Palace (Persian: کاخ شهرداری تبریز, also Romanized as Sā'at Tower) is a building in Tabriz which is used as the city hall and main office of the municipal government of Tabriz, East Azarbaijan Province, Iran.
See also Barakat Pharmaceutical Group Telecommunication Company of Iran Execution of Imam Khomeini's Order Ministry of Health and Medical Education COVIran Barakat References External links COVID-19 suspects screened via 4030 call system
Battalion 052 Fath is composed of Companies 21, 22, 23, and 24, and includes soldiers holding below high school diploma, high school diploma, and associate degree.
Khosravani was appointed secretary-general of Iran Novin Party 1965 when Prime Minister Hassan Ali Mansur who had been serving as secretary general of the party was assassinated.
"Assembly of experts (of the Leadership)", or the "Council of Experts" is the deliberative body empowered to appoint and dismiss the Supreme Leader of Iran; and Seyyed Ali Khamenei is the current supreme leader of Iran.
The amount that is allocated to the educational institutions, 50% of it is given to secondary education institutions and 21% of the annual state education budget is allocated to the post-secondary educational institutions (tertiary educational institutions).
The deceased victims were a 60-year-old man, killed at the London Pub, and a 54-year-old man, killed at the Per på hjørnet bar.
International reactions UN-member countries In June 2020, the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom accused Turkey that it threatened Yazidis families who attempted to return to their homes in the Sinjar.
It thus reports to the President of Iran, not to the Commander-in-Chief of the Iranian Armed Forces.
Maximum pressure campaign refers to the intensified sanctions against Iran by the Trump administration after the United States exited the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) in 2018.
Reception Jon Stewart of The Daily Show commented on the book, "Your ability to connect the story to your family, and the nuances you pick up, even from your captor, is incredible." "Mr.
He was closely linked with developing the so-called "Grand Bargain," a plan to resolve outstanding issues between the U.S.
The attacks led to temporary airspace closures and widespread flight disruptions across the Gulf region.
Center for Women's Participation In 1997, Khatami created the Center for Women's Participation, which then became the main institution responsible for handling women's affairs in the country, affiliated with the presidency.
The Fifth Battalion is likewise made up of personnel with educational levels below high school diploma, high school diploma, and associate degree.
Former SAVAK staff are believed to have been important in the ministry's infiltration of left-wing dissident groups and of the Iraqi Ba'ath Party.
The name Southern Liberation Front was changed to the Islamic Resistance Front in Syria on January 11, 2025.
Her name, Aisha Shazadi Kausar, was confirmed by other media in March 2024; since 2019 (and before the shooting), she has been detained at al-Roj (camp in Syria).
Throughout the first two decades of the 20th century, the relations between the two countries intensified, several bilateral agreements were signed, and a number of official visits by officials from both countries occurred.
These plots involved the use of criminal networks in Europe to silence critics of the Iranian regime.
The ECO Secretariat comprises six directorates under the supervision of the Secretary-General and deputies.
As of 2008, the Ministry of Science, Research and Technology provides RICeST annually with about one million dollars to purchase scientific journals.
After attending primary school, Garakani pursued his Islamic education by travelling to Qom in 1946 to attend the Qom Seminary.
The raid on Gonich has been interpreted as part of a broader pattern of state violence to suppress protests in the name of counterinsurgency in Iran.
In March 2021 state TV in Iran showed footage of a "missile city" armed with ballistic and cruise weapons described as "a new Revolutionary Guard base" along the Gulf coast.
Before police raid on Pearl Roundabout on March 16 there were many groups which fused together after the attack to form The Coalition Youth of 14 Feb Revolution .
It was alleged during the trial by the doorman, Abbas Fellahi, that Nejad had been one of four gunmen who panicked and opened fire on the hostages when the SAS arrived.
According to the officials, the anti-ship Fateh-110 Mod 3 flew over 100 miles on a flight path over the strait to a test range in the Iranian desert.
In 1989, it was dissolved and reintegrated into the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces Logistics (MODAFL), in order to centralize military logistics among the Iranian Armed Forces.
Soltani's hanging would be the first execution related to the recent anti-government protests in Iran.
Controversy A clash and the disagreement over strategy to be adopted in the Iran–Iraq War emerged between Ali Sayed Shirazi, commander of land forces, and Rezaee in July 1986.
These appointments placed him in control of multiple facets of the Iranian economy, such as the development of a strategic industrial plan and the promotion of domestic production, and at least one large privatization effort.
Some commentators noted the device's strong resemblance and similarity to the ADE 651, a British device that was marketed as an effective explosive detection tool, but was actually a dowsing rod with no scanning capabilities whatsoever.
I was also fairly close to the Turkish border, about an hour and a half to two hours, and not that distant from the Iraqi border.
It displayed maps of the telegram offices, post offices, pony post roads and postal network in the 19th-century Iran.
The "Order of Art" in the Islamic Republic The Order of Art is awarded to activists of the Armed Forces in cultural and artistic affairs in the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Some items have a central role in the book, namely the "rulings of the International Court of Justice"; resolutions of the United Nations Commission on International Law; and the rules governing the formation of custom in international law.
Following the impeachment of Banisadr in June 1981, the title of Commander-in-Chief was not transferred to the next president Mohammad-Ali Rajai, and is kept to this day by the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Contemporary era Cultural and diplomatic ties under Omar al-Bashir During the last week of April 2006, Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir met with a number of Iranian public figures in Tehran, including the Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
The United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances of 1988 is one of three major drug control treaties currently in force.
real estate, trading companies) and hold significant portfolio investments in various companies throughout Europe, China and the United States.
The sixth Hoveyda government was a cabinet of Iran led by Prime Minister Amir-Abbas Hoveyda that was formed on 27 May 1974 and presented to Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi on 29 May.
In addition, a Contracting State may declare that a claim warrants an extended time limit of 75 years or longer if so stated in its national law (Art.
In total, 125 aircraft were involved, including refueling and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance aircraft.
Furthermore, the shipment of LMOs subject to transboundary movement must be accompanied by appropriate documentation specifying, among other things, identity of LMOs and contact point for further information.
Shiites from Iraq, in Babil Governorate and Diyala Governorate, have traveled to Damascus from Baghdad, or from the Shiite holy city of Najaf, Iraq, claiming to protect Sayyida Zeinab, an important Shiite shrine in Damascus.
In 2014, Qods Force Chief Qassem Suleimani outlined Ali Khamenei's strategy of toppling the Arab governments, through military insurgencies waged by Iran-backed Khomeinist militants.
Honors Afshar was the recipient of Honorary Knight Commander of the Most Distinguished Order of St Michael and St George and a Grand Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau.
In 2003, a bill of duties and responsibilities in the parliament of Iran decided to rename the ministry from "Ministry of P.T.T" to "Ministry of I.C.T".
Iraq also banned the import of Iranian goods, stating it was to "support the goals of the Arab nation." Additionally, it began supporting separatist movements in Khuzestan and Balochistan.
His mission was successful, and as a result, he earned the favor of Fath-Ali Shah, who issued two farmans as his reward.
Others oppose the Guidance Patrol's existence on the grounds that the authorities should respect citizens' freedom and dignity, and enforce Iranian law but not enforce Islam.
Since 2010, China has sought to expand financial cooperation under the auspices of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation by setting up the bank.
The withdrawal aims to reduce tensions along the Israel–Lebanon border and facilitate the return of displaced civilians.
Throughout the 1990s, Hezbollah waged a cat-and-mouse of IEDs with the IDF, with Hezbollah developing increasingly sophisticated IEDs and the IDF countermeasures.
In addition, non-binary genders are not recognized in Iran and the quality of trans healthcare in the country, including hormone therapy and reconstruction surgeries, is often very low.
Of the 43 child offenders recorded as having been executed since 1990, 11 were still under the age of 18 at the time of their execution, while the others were either kept on death row until they had reached 18, or were convicted and sentenced after reaching that age.
Aerospace Industries Organization Aerospace Industries Organization (AIO, Persian: سازمان صنایع هوافضا) is a subordinate of the Iranian defence ministry and a leading high-tech complex headquartered in Tehran.
In 2006, Hezbollah ambushed an Israeli border patrol inside Israel, killing eight Israeli soldiers and taking prisoner two Israeli soldiers in an unsuccessful attempt to bargain for the release of incarcerated Hezbollah hostages.
Gholamreza Shafeei (Persian: غلامرضا شافعی, born 1951) is an Iranian politician, vice president of strategic monitoring and president of management and planning in the cabinet of Hassan Rouhani and former Ambassador of Iran to Russia.
After his ascension, the Anglo-Russian Convention in August 1907 divided Iran into a Russian sphere of influence in the North, a British sphere of influence in the South, and a neutral zone in the center.
Twitter open-source commentators suggested that the published image was a "recolored Maxar image from Google Earth".
She contributed to The Making of the New Constitution of Afghanistan, which is about the political system and processes in Afghanistan and was published in 2003.
History During the Pahlavi era, after being used as a prison until 1968, it was transformed into a museum complex.
The council served as the undisputed government of Iran from the resignation of Bazargan and the rest of the Interim Government until the formation of first parliament (6 November 1979 - 12 August 1980).
This convention was the first to name apartheid a crime under international law, while also being the first to name apartheid a crime against humanity.
During the ongoing Sudanese Civil War, Iran has emphasized its support for Sudan’s territorial integrity and the country’s internationally recognized government.
The rule also effectively requires all navigators to exercise good seamanship in applying the rules.
In 2006, Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad threatened any country that supports Israel, and said the U.S.
Iran said the attack was an "act of self-defence [that] had nothing to do with our friendly neighbour Qatar, as we enjoy excellent and deeply rooted relationships".
US research learned that automation of the Iranian air defense conceptually consisted of: 2 hardened command posts (a primary one and its backup) buried in the northern and southern Iran mountains, and a radar network spread out over the country.
He was reappointed minister of state on 19 February 1963 when Alam formed his second cabinet and remained in office until the end of the cabinet term in March 1964.
In order of Ayatollah Khomeini, he was the first Imam for Friday prayer in Tehran after the fall of Iran's interim government, In the late July 1979.
Gholam-Hossein Sadighi (Persian: غلامحسین صدیقی; 3 December 1905 – 28 April 1991) was an Iranian politician and Minister of Interior in the government of Prime Minister Mohammad Mosaddegh in 1953.
The United Nations called for boycotting of public events, as well as economic embargoes, something it had never done previously.
His other renowned students include the hadith scholar and historian, al-Khatib al-Baghdadi and the Maliki jurist, hadith scholar and theologian, Abu al-Walid al-Baji.
It concludes that the Kyoto protocol's relatively small impact on global carbon dioxide emissions reflects a number of factors, including "deliberate political strategy, unequal power, and the absence of leadership" among and within nations.
Shamseddin Amir-Alai (Persian: شمس‌الدین امیرعلائی; 1900–August 1994) was an Iranian politician who served as both interior minister and justice minister in the first cabinet of Mohammad Mosaddegh.
The number of civilians killed is unclear due to the internet and phone blackout the government implemented as part of their suppression.
According to article 93 of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran, the Parliament generally has no legal status without the simultaneous existence of the council.
Sharh Mukhtasar al-Muzani ("Explanation of Abridgement by al-Muzani"), is an early major jurisprudential work in 25 volumes.
In July 2024, de facto ruler of Sudan Abdel Fattah al-Burhan received an Iranian ambassador in Port Sudan, the de facto capital of Sudan at the time due to fighting in the capital city Khartoum, in the Sudanese civil war.
Studying in Caconda, Ambriz, Huambo, Benguela and Luanda, he participated in various political seminars in Switzerland, Zambia and the United States before dedicating his life to the liberation of Angola in 1959, living in the woods to escape persecution.
According to Hooshangt Amirahmadi, director of the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at Rutgers University, "A lot of ministers and governors are from the Revolutionary Guard...
Description Located on the oldest street in Iran, Sepah Street, the main building on the grounds of the estate had fifty rooms.
Iran Tribunal Foundation After presenting its ruling, on 23 June 2013 the general assembly of the Iran Tribunal decided to proceed with its work in the form of a new foundation, and named it the Iran Tribunal Foundation.
Aliabadi was the nominated as Minister of Industry, Mine and Trade in the Government of Ebrahim Raisi.
In 2006, for the Journal of Middle Eastern and African Intellectual and Cultural Studies, he wrote "Hafez: A Face-Off With Virtue" about the 14th century Iranian lyric poet, Hafez.
Iranian experts have applied the capabilities of the Tosan (missile) in the manufacturing process of Tondar-missile, that means: this anti-tank missile can target both fixed/moving targets on land and sea.
Personal experiences in this area also show that people's protests against each other in this regard often lead to the discomfort of the animal owner.
The original Star of the Order comprised an enameled five-pointed star, with an inscription representing Imam Ali on a red boss in the center, mounted over two crossed curved Zolfaghar swords and a sunburst of rays, as seen in the traditional Lion and Sun symbol.
Article 6 The Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance and the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting are obliged to make propaganda support for the Palestinian Islamic Revolution a priority in their foreign activities.
Historical relations Antiquity While there had been historical contacts between the two nations, for most of Jordanian history, the country fell under various Persian rule which started from the Achaemenid Empire to the Sasanian Empire.
In August 2021, hacks of governmental surveillance cameras revealed constant beatings and draggings of prisoners by staff.
Tehrani supported Abolhassan Banisadr, while Ali Khamenei, Mohammad Hosseini Beheshti, and Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani favored Jalaleddin Farsi who was the candidate for Islamic Republic party at the time.
Ahmadinejad has sought reconciliation with the Arab states by encouraging bilateral trade and posturing for Iranian entry into the Gulf Cooperation Council.
Several years later, following the Islamic Revolution, he returned to Iran from asthma treatment in Switzerland despite his family's pleas to stay abroad.
"God ordered the prophet Muhammad to brutally slay hypocrites and ill-intentioned people who stuck to their convictions.
He began his career at the Ministry of Education and later worked at the Ministry of Oil, including a position at the Special Economic Energy Zone of Pars in 2002.
The efforts of his wife and family proved fruitless until the neighbors of the apartment, where Chitgar was murdered, complained about the odor and police discovered his body on 17 July, two months after the murder.
Ministers See also Economic activities of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Pasdar (IRGC) == References ==
Sanction According to the Israeli officials, later backed up by American intelligence officials, it was tasked with the research and development of nuclear weapons, and took over some of the activities of the Iranian nuclear weapon development AMAD Project.
After some time, the Ministry of Finance's location was transferred to Atabek Park, the current location of the Embassy of Russia in Tehran.
The minister Mohammad Javad Zarif announced that Iran has no intentions to increase the capacity of the Arak site, "but construction will continue there".
On 24 November, Ukrainian officials said the military had killed ten Iranians and would target any further Iranian military presence in Ukraine.
Department of the Treasury's report, four IRGC senior officials, Hushang Alladad, Hossein Musavi, Hasan Mortezavi, and Mohammad Reza Zahedi, were specifically named for providing support to terrorist organizations.
Vahidi also served as the Minister of Interior from 2021 to 2024, and is currently a member of the Expediency Discernment Council.
North Korea Context The emergence of North Korea's 'shadow fleets' are a direct response to the multilateral comprehensive sanctions imposed against the regime following nuclear ballistic missile tests since 2016.
Contrary to the goals of regional adversaries, Khatami hoped that a path of peace, progress, and regional security would be pursued.
Vahidi highlighted that the technology for hovercraft production has been localized within the country, asserting that the Islamic Republic of Iran possesses the capability to manufacture all varieties of hovercraft.
Alexander Khan Setkhanian, residing at the Davidkhanian mansion, was visited by his colleagues in the Iranian military and urged to consider opposing Reza Khan as Reza Khan's troops gathered just outside of Tehran.
During his tenure, Setad implemented housing and welfare programs, including contributions to the National Housing Movement and assistance for low-income households.
Two investigatory commissions were formed, one for examining previous promotions and the other for materiel procurement.
History The history of sugarcane cultivation and exploitation in this region goes back to the distant past, but officially this company started its work in 1966.
Batmanghelidj's term was very brief and ended in 1959 when Rahmat Allah Atabaki replaced him in the post.
This led to a small skirmish between Portugal and Iran, but Portuguese diplomat Antonio de Gouvea managed to defuse the situation.
A roughly equivalent title is Pādishāh (پادشاه, pādišāh, pādšāh, 'master king'), which was most widespread during the Muslim period in the Indian subcontinent.
The negotiations took place and the accords were signed at the Algiers home of the American ambassador, the Villa Montfeld.
Among the projects which will be ended by the termination of relations will be an agreement, worth US$2 billion (£1.2 billion), whereby Iran would have supplied lorries and commercial vehicles to the Gambia.
Reception Mostaan 110's unveiling and the IRGC's claims were met with widespread criticism from both Iranian and international experts, who described it as pseudoscientific.
Promoting coordination between military and political institutions in response to existing and emerging threats.
A State Party can request the competent Court of another Contracting State to order the return of a cultural object illegally exported from its territory if the removal of the object caused detriment in one of the ways listed under Article 5.3.
The report of the celebration was published on his website and aired on Fadak Satellite Channel in the United Kingdom.
Backgrounds in Iran The plan of "Umm al-Qura" theory is a turning point in the process of reforming the attitude in the field of foreign policy of the Islamic Republic of Iran from idealism to realism and change its emphasis on the solving the internal needs, problems and difficulties of the system.
The meeting issued a joint statement calling on the relevant parties in Afghanistan to stabilize the situation in Afghanistan and maintain communication with all parties.
James had falsely accused Ebrahimi of being a paedophile (when in fact he had merely been recording evidence of threats and antisocial behaviour, since the police had dismissed them) and then beat Ebrahimi to death, later dragging Ebrahimi's body to his home's front yard and setting fire to it.
As the legal successor of the tribunal, among its main tasks will be safeguarding the results of the tribunal, passing on its organizational and legal experiences and continue documenting crimes in Iran committed against political prisoners, focusing on the nineteen eighties.
Mohammad Forouzandeh Behbahani (Persian: محمد فروزنده بهبهانی; born in 1960) is an Iranian politician and security figure.
In reward for his accomplishment, Abd al-Malik appointed Sulayman the head of Syria's fiscal administration, a post he held through the reigns of the caliph's sons and successors al-Walid I and Sulayman.
CIA and Iraqi connections During his exile in Paris after 1979, Oveissi continued his dialog with both the CIA as well as Saddam Hussein.
Resolutions by the Iran Novin Party and the Congress on Administrative Revolution recommended the creation of an organization to handle citizens' complaints against officials and the administration.
The fall of the Assad regime, however, marked a serious setback for Iran's ambitions in the Middle East.
In March 2004, this company was part of a consortium that won a mobile-phone license from the Iranian government, but the deal fell through because of political objections.
Under the leadership of Abu Muslim Khorasani, they mobilized a broad coalition of Arab settlers, Iranian converts, and local elites against the Umayyads.
However, such a policy was not unprecedented in Iran and during the second term of Hashemi Rafsanjani's presidency, moves were made to strengthen existing ties with important Asian countries such as China, India and Russia within the framework of a strategic alliance.
Masoud Nili (Persian: مسعود نیلی, born 14 February 1955 in Hamedan) is an Iranian academic and economist.
He is believed to be one of the first victims of the "chain murders", a series of murders and disappearances of Iranian dissident intellectuals in the 1990s.
History The operational history of the Anti-Terror Special Forces includes deployments against internal security threats, and is often called upon to suppress protests.
From the time of the Muslim conquest of the region from the Byzantine Empire in the 630s, Greek had remained the language of the bureaucracy in Syria and the change in 700 formed part of the wider centralization efforts undertaken by Abd al-Malik.
2018 April 30, 2018: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu gave a speech on where he spoke of "new and conclusive proof of the secret nuclear weapons program that Iran has been hiding for years from the international community in its secret atomic archive." May 8, 2018: U.S.
On 7 March 2026, during the 2026 Iran war, its chief of staff, Abolghasem Babaeian, who also was the military secretary of Iran's supreme leader was assassinated by Israel.
Reza Shah personally selected the two to design the residence adjacent to his Marble Palace as a gift to the then-Crown Prince.
During his tenure as Dean of the Tehran University of Medical Sciences, he instigated significant reforms to ensure that promotions were based upon merit rather than political connections, leading to the forced retirement of several ineffective, but politically influential professors.
The monument architecture is Persian Achaemenid architecture, with Persian columns and other features from Persepolis and other remains from the Achaemenids.
On 23 September 2017, Iran tested another ballistic missile after showing it off at a military parade in Tehran.
He said the fatwa had been published at the right time and could help to control sectarian tensions.
The group's activities were said to be increasing in mid-2010 and it was said to be closely cooperating with Asa'ib Ahl al-Haq.
Hamas said that the Iranian military operation against Israel was a "natural right and a deserved response" to the Israeli bombing of the Iranian consulate in Damascus and assassination of IRGC leaders there.
The Interior Ministry was controlled by SCIRI, and many Badr members became part of the Interior Ministry-run Wolf Brigade.
Following his announcement, some members of the Guardian Council stated that the Council's Secretary, Ahmad Jannati, opposed his resignation.
She was also active as a translator, notably translating Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice to Persian.
Reuters argued this development to be a "direct challenge to the United States," reinforced through China's announcement of its Global Governance Initiative (GGI), aimed to circumvent US and Euro-centric global order.
The change in Iranian leadership, from the reformist Mohammad Khatami to the ultraconservative Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, did not change the Brazilian perspective.
She worked for the Ministry of Culture, for the ministry's Office for Rural Culture, and was appointed Deputy Minister of Education, focusing on literacy.
The delegation's journey to Saint Petersburg was recorded by Mirza Masoud's secretary Mirza Mostafa Afshar.
New ships will be required to install and comply with the D2 standard from 8 September 2017, once the convention has entered into force.
The council gradually fell into disuse following the end of the war and was formally dissolved as part of the 1989 constitutional revision.
After finishing his engineering studies in Tehran, he pursued his master's in Strasbourg, France in the mid 1970s.
In 1997, the World Drug Report warned: Since the mid-1980s the world has faced a wave of synthetic stimulant abuse, with approximately nine times the quantity seized in 1993 than in 1978, equivalent to an average annual increase of 16 per cent.
On 2 August, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Romania Bogdan Aurescu said that it was clear after investigations that Iran had committed the attack and condemned the country for it.
This Shia cleric has been a member of the Assembly of Experts (from Hamedan province) since February 2016.
Passive Defence and Cyberwarfare The National Organization for Passive Defense also reports to the Armed Forces General Staff.
As Alexander had been fond of Reza while Reza was a soldier under his command, and had developed a close relationship with him, he chose not to oppose the takeover.
In 2017, the group has been designated as a terrorist organization by Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and Egypt.
The argument of this doctrine is that if the influence and power of the "Umm al-Qura" increase, other Islamic nations will also move behind its current, and the Islamic uprising and spirit will cause serious problems to all the colonial and oppressive powers of the present world.
References Further reading 'Alí Rizā Awsatí (عليرضا اوسطى), Iran in the past three centuries (Irān dar Se Qarn-e Goz̲ashteh – ايران در سه قرن گذشته), Volumes 1 and 2 (Paktāb Publishing – انتشارات پاکتاب, Tehran, Iran, 2003).
After the Ṭabarsi conflict, mere adherence to the Báb could be sufficient to lead to a death sentence.
Iranian Islamic Republic Day (Persian: روز جمهوری اسلامی ایران, romanized: ruz Jomhuri Eslām Iran) is the national day and a public holiday in Iran.
He attended his primary school in his hometown, where he learnt the basics of the Quran, as well as learning Persian.
The Persian Constitution of 1906 (Persian: قانون اساسی مشروطه, romanized: Qānun-e Asāsi-ye Mashrute), was the first constitution of the Sublime State of Iran (Persia) and a result of the Persian Constitutional Revolution.
The purpose is to create a unified platform for all segments to properly dialogue and coordinate actions during a time of political instability and uncertainty.
The People's Mojahedin Organization, the Tudeh Party, the Freedom Movement, the National Front, and the Muslim People's Republican Party, while approving the referendum, "objected to the imposition of Khomeini's choice".
Affiliated institutions The Social Security Organization controls a network of affiliated entities, primarily through the Social Security Investment Company (Shasta).
Iran's negotiator, Araghchi disclosed in an interview that certain elements of the interim agreement are fleshed out in a secret 30-page "side agreement" or "nonpaper." He said it included information about the operation of a joint commission to oversee the interim agreement's implementation.
A memorandum of understanding on security and military cooperation aimed at fighting terrorism and extremism was also negotiated.
Just like this movement destroyed the monarchical regime here, it will definitely destroy the arrogant rule of the hegemony of America, Israel, and their allies.
(2015), "Iran", IHS Jane's Fighting Ships 2015–2016, Jane's Fighting Ships (116th Revised ed.), Coulsdon: IHS Jane's, pp.
He was the 14th Governor-general of Kermanshah Province, Iran from November 2013 to September 2015 in the Cabinet of Hassan Rouhani and first Governor-general of South Khorasan Province in 2nd Cabinet Mohammad Khatami.
The proposal reflected the Saudi government's preoccupation with preventing potential uprisings by disenfranchised minorities in the Persian Gulf monarchies as well as its regional rivalry with Iran.
Its main contractors include Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces Logistics Iran, Imam Hossein University, Hezbollah IT & Cyber Security Wing, Hamas Communication Brigade.
He responded on this threat to restrict the Persian sovereignty by politely pointing out that despite the alleged insecurity of trade routes, the volume of imports into Persia had increased by ten percent in the previous year.
TCI's Infrastructure Telecom Company will be detached from it and would continue its activities as a part of the ICT Ministry.
He also said that the terrorist designation did not grant any additional authorities to the Department of Defense and that they were not asking for any.
In its resolutions, the Council required Iran to fully cooperate with the IAEA and to suspend all uranium enrichment-related activities.
The IRGC and its affiliated economic networks, sometimes referred to as the "water mafia," have profited immensely from this system.
The 1978 ISA World Championship and 1982 World Surf League held in South Africa were boycotted by Australia, though individual Australians competed in the latter event.
Products Jet-propelled aircraft HESA Kowsar – a domestic "4th generation" version of reverse-engineered F-5 Tiger.
For years, Iranian forces were involved on the ground, with soldiers in the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps facing heavy casualties.
The Iran Electoral Archive (IEAr) is an online source of information about elections in Iran, comprising laws, official documents, academic articles and commentaries, both in English and in Persian.
Recent period In 2016, the Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic paid a state visit to Iran, meeting different Islamic Republic officials including President Hassan Rouhani and vice president for science and technology Sorena Sattari.
He is married to the daughter of Ghorbanali Dorri-Najafabadi and was his deputy in Ministry of Intelligence.
His parents, Mohammadali Pezeshkian and Mahboubeh Soudbakhsh, were both from Urmia and had moved to Mahabad for employment before his birth.
Biography Aliabadi has a bachelor's and master's degree in mechanical engineering with a focus on energy conversion from Sharif University of Technology and Tehran University, and a doctorate in mechanical engineering from K.
Mostowfi ol-Mamalek was a powerful official during this period, and at the end of Soltan Hoseyn's reign they had the right to participate in the Supreme State Council.
However, a strong homosexual tradition in Iran is attested to by Greek historians from the 5th century onward, and so the prohibition apparently had little effect on Iranian attitudes or sexual behavior outside the ranks of devout Zoroastrians in rural eastern Iran.
The formation of the Defence Council, as provided for under the law establishing the Supreme National Security Council (Article 176 of the Constitution), was undertaken approximately 36 years after the constitutional revision.
These claims were met with wide skepticism from experts both inside Iran and internationally, and the device's capabilities have not been independently proven.
In addition, seven executive agencies are actually responsible for carrying out the special responsibility of the Housing Foundation in relation to housing development in cities and villages and low-income groups and the reconstruction of disaster-affected areas.
Leadership Members of Parliament elect their speaker and deputy speakers during the first session of Parliament for a one-year term.
During that year, Khorasan saw factional conflict once more, with small Afshar clans notably opposing the shah.
At the beginning of this research, in addition to defining and performing its independent tasks, it was within the framework of three research groups.
Executive President In the Islamic Republic of Iran, the president is the second person of government and the head of government.
Surrounding structures Archaeological studies have identified the existence of a two layered rampart with twelve towers around the present day construction.
Alā was appointed prime minister for the second time in 1955, and in November 1955 survived an assassination attempt at the funeral of a son of Abol-Ghasem Kashani.
According to Article 124, the first vice president chairs the board of ministers and coordinates the other vice presidencies, if approved by the president.
Opinion about 2011 by-elections A parliamentary by-election was held in Bahrain on September 24, 2011, following the withdrawal of 18 members of the largest political party in parliament, al Wefaq, in protest at governmental actions during the Bahraini uprising (2011–present).
Mahsa Amini Graduate Fellowship at University of California Santa Barbara This Fund support qualified graduate students in a UC Santa Barbara doctoral program who have matriculated from an Iranian institution where they received a bachelor’s degree in something other than a STEM discipline.
This type of imprisonment is applied for crimes rooted in Islamic principles and considered Haram (forbidden acts) but without a specific punishment prescribed in Islamic law.
This measure increased his unpopularity with many influential figures and thus contributed to his ultimate disgrace and death.
He took part in political activities against Mohammad Reza Pahlavi's rule around this time and participated in the Iranian Revolution under Ruhollah Khomeini.
The Imperial Inspectorate Organization (Persian: سازمان بازرسی شاهنشاهی, also known as the Shah's Inspection) was the supreme investigative body of Iran.
It was reported that enforcement of the mandatory hijab and the guidance patrol had intensified, particularly in religious cities.
In return, international sanctions would be lifted; whether in phases or all at once still needed to be worked out.
He was considered the most important presidential candidate of the conservative alliance for the 2005 presidential elections.
He and his successor at the ministry of intelligence, Ali Fallahian, were alumni of the Haqqani School in Qom.
In parallel with institutional initiatives, a proposal has been put forward for a supranational currency known as UNIT, designed by the International Reserve and Investment Asset System (IRIAS).
References http://www.unccd.int/ActionProgrammes/iran-eng2004.pdf https://web.archive.org/web/20130326114724/http://www.frw.org.ir/AboutFRWO/History/pageid/74/language/en-US/Default.aspx External links Official website
Technical level meetings focus on project implementation and technical exchanges, such as the meeting of BRICS heads of national statistics offices.
On 7 September 2009, Iranian police, with permission from the judiciary system and Tehran General Court, entered the office to support political prisoners and seized all the documents and computers, among others.
It consisted of several thousand Iraqi exiles, refugees, and Iraqi Army defectors who fought alongside Iranian troops in the Iran–Iraq War.
Mourners chanted anti-government slogans such as “the political prisoners must be freed,” and, “Mousavi and Karroubi must be freed,” calling Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei a dictator.
The injustices perceived by the fishermen evoked sympathy from many Lebanese, and reinforced the resentment and antipathy that were widely felt against the state and the economic monopolies.
The 15 Khordad Foundation, in reality, was a supplementary office to the Foundation of Martyrs and Veterans Affairs.
In the film, titled I nationens intresse ("In the Interest of the Nation"), an Iranian intelligence officer named Reza Taslimi was identified as the probable assassin.
In the same year, the main groups of products exported to Portugal by Iran were Minerals and Ores, Agricultural Products and Chemical Products.
The nuclear deal received a mixed international reaction, with many countries expressing praise or hope it could achieve the denuclearization of Iran.
Its importance stand out more due to the ongoing instability in Iran as the 2026 Iran war continues.
Background Persia was rather unstable in the early 1900s, making the roads difficult to traverse due to frequent raiding by insurgents.
Hulegu tolerated the rebel because since 1261, the Il-kan was at war with the Berke of Golden Horde, which was on a larger scale.
The government led by Prime Minister Abdolhossein Hazhir was formed on 15 June 1948 and replaced the cabinet of Ebrahim Hakimi.
There were several subsidiary company and centers which went through many evolutions and were able to spread communication solutions inside Iran.
"I saw children who had no shoes and not enough food to eat and I saw women who were repeatedly subjected to domestic and sexual violence.
Subsequently, the "Statute of National Petrochemical Company" and "Statute of National Iranian Gas Company" were approved on 21 November, and 25 November 1977, respectively.
In late 2025 and early 2026, there was a growing unrest within Iran as nationwide protests started, that were violently suppressed by the Iranian regime.
His tenure as minister of labor ended in 1968, and the same year he was named as the interior minister to the cabinet led by Prime Minister Amir Abbas Hoveyda.
Rights of the Persian Throne In the Rights of the Persian Throne, the section begins with several articles outlining the duties of the Shah and the logistics of the throne.
The United States specifically requested the release of the hostages and their safe departure from Iran, reparations to the United States and its affected nationals, and the prosecution of those responsible for the embassy seizure.
A 7 October coroner's report stated that Amini's death was "not caused by blows to the head and limbs" and instead linked her death to pre-existing medical conditions, ruling that she had died from multiple organ failure caused by cerebral hypoxia.
On 8 March 2026, around 200 demonstrators gathered outside the embassy in central London during protests to express support for United States and Israeli military strikes on Iran, while officers from the Metropolitan Police supervised the protest.
In the field of manufacturing technical devices and tools, the Radiosonde has been manufactured by the ASMERC in Iran.
Iran's Municipalities and Village Administrations Organization (IMO) is a governmental organization in Iran, under the Ministry of Interior (Iran) and responsible for affairs of all municipalities around the country.
Jahangir Tafazzoli (1914–1990) was an Iranian journalist and government official during the Pahlavi period.
In 1829, following the murder of the Russian diplomat Alexander Griboyedov by the people of Tehran, a delegation led by prince Khosrow Mirza was sent to the Russian capital Saint Petersburg to apologize.
In response to the airstrike that killed Qasem Soleimani in January 2020, he stated that he wrote down a list of Trump properties to target.
Shortly after the Islamic revolution in 1979, Elghanian was arrested on 16 March after returning to Iran, and accused of spying.
When fully set up, the height of the system reaches eight meters and it uses 12 "Yagi" antennas installed in two rows.
In her TV debates, she reveals the devilish policy of occupiers and their Afghan minions, revealing the crimes of the government and other local warlords on Afghan people, defending the rights of women and ill-fated people, and inviting people for unity and solidarity.
Human rights groups say Iran is the world's second-largest user of capital punishment after China, with at least 1,500 hangings recorded last year, according to Iran Human Rights.
PJAK later confirmed the report on armed incident, in which it said several members of the East Kurdistan Defense Forces of PJAK were killed near the Salasbajani town in Kermanshah.
The Foundation is also involved in numerous economic endeavors, much like the Mostazafen Foundation of Islamic Revolution.
Measuring the performance and evaluating the results of the completed researches and the achievements of important national and international conferences on Iranology and how to use them.
Health demographics A 2022 study in the Archives of Sexual Behavior estimated that there were around 1.46 trans individuals per 100 000 Iranians, with 839 individuals being deemed eligible for reassignment by the Iranian Legal Medicine Organization between 2012 and 2017.
He was also a candidate for the presidential elections in July 1981 and in 1989, finishing second in both of them.
The Austrian authorities noted that investigation in the case of Chitgar's assassination was difficult because the agent of the Islamic Republic had a Turkish passport and did not need a visa to come to Austria.
The convention was concluded in London on 5 October 2001 and entered into force on 17 September 2008.
Tasnim's stated goal is to "[defend] the Islamic Republic against negative media propaganda campaigns and provide our readers with realities on the ground about Iran and Islam." Tasnim is headquartered in Iran's capital Tehran, with reporters across the country and the Middle East.
Arrest and detention Erfan Soltani, a 26-year-old resident of Fardis, Karaj, was arrested in his home on 8 January 2026, during ongoing anti-government protests in Iran.
Unpublished works, however, are copyrighted regardless of their origin or of the nationality of the works' authors, as long as they remain unpublished.
In 1973, the Iran Electronics Industries (IEI) was founded to organize efforts to assemble and repair foreign-delivered weapons.
A similar propaganda initiative was held on 30 April 2011 when it was instituted the "National Day of The Persian Gulf" in memory of the Portuguese defeat and remotion from the Strait of Hormoz.
Participating nations Transportation and railway ministers from forty one nations participated in the week-long conference held in Busan, South Korea, where the agreement was formulated.
According to the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran, a Wednesday 16 February funeral procession and memorial service planned for Sane Jaleh by his classmates at the Arts University campus was taken over by the Basij with "about 40 to 50" of Jaleh's classmates being "pushed ...
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the President of Iran, was a guest of honor at the 2006 African Union summit in The Gambia's capital city, Banjul, and he and Jammeh maintained "close ties".
Iran's flag carrier Iran Air offered a direct service between the two capitals twice weekly, and the other Iranian airline Qeshm Air also expressed its interest for flying to Belgrade.
The last amendment was in 2004 when IRIMC legislation was approved by the country's Guardian Council of the Constitution.
The majority of the victims belonged to Iran's Communist Party, Mojahedin-e Khalq, Fadaiean-e Khalq (Majority and Minority), Rah-e Kargar, the Iran Tudeh Party or Komoleh.
Because of this, Sadighi left the scene and the Shah instead appointed Shapour Bakhtiar (one of the other leaders of the National Front) as Prime Minister.
The Iranology Foundation is a scientific and research institute in Iran and Iranian studies is the main field of its activities.
Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei discussed it on several occasions including the Islamic Unity Conference.
Arrest, trial and execution After examining the latest victim's phone calls, police traced a call to a young man named Omid, eventually identifying Omid Barak as the prime suspect in the killings.
Ghorbanifar's contribution to the Libyan story contributed to the CIA's 1984 decision to issue a "burn notice" against Ghorbanifar.
History In 1933, representatives from the Engineering Department of the Imperialism Iranian Army Ground Forces were sent to Kerman to establish a military garrison.
See also Mohammad Mokhtari (protester) Neda Agha-Soltan Zahra Kazemi Zahra Bani Yaghoub Sohrab Arabi == References ==
He was a member of Assembly of Experts, from February 2021 to October 2022 in the fifth term of the Assembly of Experts, after the death of Nasrallah Shah-Abadi.
Starting from June 30, 2011, the Coalition has called for 10 gatherings for the right of Self-determination.
Conversion to Bábism Shaykhís expected the imminent arrival of the Qa'im or Mahdi, and after the death of Siyyid Kazim in January 1844, Bastámí led a group of Shaykhís who, along with a group led by Mullá Husayn, sought out the expected Mahdi.
His scientific background and global perspective helped shape Iran’s early environmental policies, including the drafting of laws that placed Iran among the first countries in the region to adopt modern conservation frameworks.
Liwa Zainabiyoun's fighters also were limitedly involved in War in Iraq (2013–2017) and Yemeni civil war under the support of IRGC’s Quds Force as the Brigade is the part of Iran's Axis of Resistance.
It is headquartered in Tehran, and is owned by the Iranian government's Islamic Development Organization (IIDO).
Guinnane, "Financial Vergangenheitsbewältigung: The 1953 London Debt Agreement" (Economic Growth Center, Yale University, 2004) online External links Text of the treaty Éric Toussaint, The Marshall Plan and the Debt Agreement on German debt Timothy W.
After he was accused of mismanagement and embezzlement in October 1978, he resigned from the post of the president of the Atomic Energy Organization.
Personal life Razmara married Anvar ol Molouk Hedayat who was a sister of Sadegh Hedayat, an Iranian author.
Many of Iran's contemporary landmarks, such as the University of Tehran campus, Museum of Ancient Iran (later known as the Iran National Museum), and the tombs of Ferdowsi, Hafez, and Saadi, were constructed under his leadership.
Mehdi Walāʾi, "Fehrest-e nosaḵ-e vaqfi-e ʿAli-Aṣḡar Ḥekmat be Āstān-e Qods-e Rażavi", Nosḵa-hā-ye ḵaṭṭi V, 1967, pp.
After becoming the president he ensured that all decision-making powers were given to him, right from the budget to the selection of staff.
Nesreen testified against her father, as did Cory Beavers, who lost his twin brother and girlfriend, and McCormick, who lost her son.
Through his literary magazine, The Magazine of the academy (Majaleh-ye Dāneshkadeh), Bahār had a significant impact on the development of modern Persian poetry and literature.
Within 10 days of the complaint, the Council President is required to table a draft resolution to continue the lifting of sanctions.
Ali Amini was appointed to rule by decree as the Prime Minister of Iran on 5 May 1961, succeeding Jafar Sharif-Emami.
Note 4: According to the list provided by the specialized committee subject to Note (1), the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting is obliged to refrain from advertising any kind of goods of Zionist companies.
2021 parliamentary elections The Sadrist Movement ended as the largest political party in the 10 October 2021 Iraqi parliamentary elections, with 10% of the votes and 73 seats in Parliament.
General Culture Council of Iran (Persian: شورای فرهنگ عمومی), is a conservative-dominated body based in Qom and part of Supreme Council of the Cultural Revolution, was set up at the time of Ayatollah Khomeini.
Zarif and Kerry conferred, ahead of a fresh round of negotiations between Iran and six world powers in Geneva, on settling their 12-year standoff over Tehran's nuclear ambitions.
National Iranian Petrochemical Company's output capacity will increase to over 100 million tpa by 2015 from an estimated 50 million tpa in 2010 thus becoming the world' second largest chemical producer globally after Dow Chemical with Iran housing some of the world's largest chemical complexes.
European Union: On 24 January 2023, the European Union issued new sanctions against the Islamic Republic of Iran, which included 18 natural and 19 legal entities of the Islamic Republic Iran, including Mohammad Karami.
At the time shipping and air travel were not as well developed, and the project promised to significantly reduce shipping times and costs between Europe and Asia.
However, due to the acquiescence of the United States, which was not happy about Britain's oil monopoly, and the backing of public opinion that expressed its approval, no administrative sanctions were taken.
the former Assad regime of Syria) continued to regularly manufacture and implement such chemicals in combat munitions.
Following its foundation, the group recruited locals opposed to the SDF's policies in Raqqa such as forced conscription, and the new administration's perceived lack of care for the interests and needs of the local people.
The group claimed a few days later that it was monitoring and preparing to attack the IDF in southern Syria.
In 1981, it was renamed to current name Technical and Vocational Training Organization of the country.
During her career with HAWCA, she managed to provide free education and health care for numbers of children and women in many provinces, legal aid and protection to female victims of violence, she educated young girls in leadership tools, and she worked at different levels for women's human rights.
Its role is to enforce Sharia law as defined by Iranian legislation, with a particular focus on ensuring compliance with Islamic dress codes, such as mandating that women wear a hijab.
The anthem's music was composed by Mohammad Biglaripur, and its lyrics were written by Abolghasem Halat.
Ahmad Qavam (Persian: احمد قوام; 2 January 1873 – 23 July 1955), also known as Qavam os-Saltaneh (Persian: قوام السلطنه), was an Iranian politician who served as Prime Minister of Iran five times.
The radio network started to work in 1956 with the aim of familiarizing different world nations with Iran's history and culture as well as its different regions and historical sites.
President Putin quoted Prime Minister Narendra Modi in saying that BRICS is not anti-western but non-western.
It will also pave the way for closer political and economic contact with Iran." Philippines: The Department of Foreign Affairs welcomed the agreement, saying that it was an important measure to promote both regional and global security.
Though HEU enriched to levels exceeding 20% is considered technically usable in a nuclear explosive device, this route is much less desirable because far more material is required to achieve a sustained nuclear chain reaction.
See also Atomic Energy Organization of Iran References Bibliography Patrikarakos, David (13 November 2012).
He died in 1058 at the age of 102, still productive and said to be in full possession of his mental and physical powers.
In July of that year, the members of the Gulf Cooperation Council, alongside Jordan, Egypt, Iraq, and the United States participated in the Jeddah Security and Development Summit (JSDS).
Charges being dropped, in regard to two other persons As of September 2025, the government is not pursuing a (judicial) case against: A 38-year-old Norwegian-Pakistani (norsk-pakistaner); he had been charged with having taken part in terrorism.
Division between trans men and trans women portrays trans men as more "real" or valid than trans women.
He sat on the Interim Leadership Council, alongside President Masoud Pezeshkian and Chief Justice Gholam-Hossein Mohseni-Eje'i, following the assassination of Ali Khamenei until the election of Mojtaba Khamenei as the new Supreme Leader of Iran.
The caliph appointed Sulayman to the department of official correspondence and maintained closer relations with Sulayman, whom he had handpicked at a young age, than the elderly Sarjun, whom he inherited from previous administrations.
Fulfillment of requirements In September 2021, the Climate Action Tracker estimated that, with current policies, global emissions will double above the 2030 target level.
According to the Statistical Center of Iran, the figures are as follows, as of March 2016 (end of Iranian calendar 1394): Guide The total population of a province is the total of its counties.
In the fields of social welfare and housing, Fattah directed resources toward the National Housing Movement, including allocating land for housing projects.
It features a set of procedures including one for LMOs that are to be intentionally introduced into the environment called the advance informed agreement procedure, and one for LMOs that are intended to be used directly as food or feed or for processing.
The Khutbah (Friday Sermon) is when the different block leaders come together and explain the political narrative of their block using figurative language.
The Convention further states that a party may not decline to act on this provision on the ground of bank secrecy.
Iran eventually agreed to reopen the strait following a two-week provisional ceasefire announced on 8 April 2026.
Qutrib pointed out that these six governorates contained 46% of Syria's total population at the end of 2011— 9.8 million people out of a Syrian population of almost 21.4 million people at the time.
2024 Nour program In April 2024, two years after the beginning of the Women, Life, Freedom movement, the Iranian government ordered more violent morality patrols.
President Donald Trump referred to Iranian leaders as a "corrupt water mafia" who divert water to themselves, turning fertile lands into deserts, and named the IRGC as a central actor in unchecked dam building that has dried up rivers and lakes.
A Clinical Study of the Use of Pyrvinium Pamoate with Piperazine (Vanpar ®) in the Treatment of Oxyuriasis and Ascariasis.
Features The construction of the present building was completed in 1995, with a constructed area of 28,800 square meters and was opened to the public in 1995.
He wrote regularly for Kayhan daily, one of the main leading newspapers in Iran during the 1990s and 2000s.
While Iranian corporate records are not available to substantiate MTN Irancell's true ownership, a lawsuit filed by Turkcell in 2004 alleges 51% of the company is owned by Mostazafan.
Anglo-Iranian relations have improved since the election of President Hassan Rouhani and the countries made plans to re-open the embassy.
According to Ali Akbar Moinfar, Council of the Islamic Revolution chaired by Mohammad Beheshti as First Secretary until Abolhassan Banisadr elected as President of Iran.
History and profile Developed on 17 October 1936 (before the current constitution of Iran (1979)), the ministry was established to provide electricity to the city of Tehran.
He designed the first Iranian Navy uniform and later became the Lord Admiral (Maritime Frontier-Keeper) of the Persian Gulf.
According to Human Rights Watch, the current economic sanctions are causing “unnecessary suffering to Iranian citizens afflicted with a range of diseases and medical conditions," despite exemptions for the humanitarian goods.
Rotman, director of the Peace and Security Policy Department at the Global Public Policy Institute in Berlin, believes that this meeting foreshadows China's gradual replacement of Russia's position in Russia's traditional sphere of influence in Central Asia.
He argued that Hitler's actions stemmed from a conflicted identity, simultaneous solidarity with and hatred for Jews.
Meshkini was the chair of the Society of Seminary Teachers of Qom and also served as Friday prayer leader in Qom.
Iran's health system is highly centralized, and almost all decisions regarding general goals, policies and allocation of resources are made at the central level by MOHME.
That very evening, Reza Shah sent a gunboat of fifty troops, led by Davidkhanian, to board the yacht.
The number of Iranians eligible to vote on 30 and 31 March 1979, was exactly "22,800,000" people, and the people participated in the referendum were "20,288,021", so 20,147,055 people voted "yes" and only 140,966 voted "no".
The Ministry of Sport and Youth (Persian: وزارت ورزش و جوانان جمهوری اسلامی ایران, Vezârat-è Varzeš-o javânân-è Jomhuri-è Eslâmi-ye Irân) is the government ministry of youth affairs and sports in the Islamic Republic of Iran.
"While Bahari's vivid descriptions make for a good read, perhaps the most compelling aspect of Then They Came for Me is Bahari's ability to capture the frustration that many Iranians, at home and abroad, feel toward Iran's current government.
In July 2006, Asa'ib Ahl al-Haq was founded and became one of the Special Groups which operated more independently from the rest of the Mahdi Army.
Ahmad Masjed-Jamei (Persian: احمد مسجدجامعی) is an Iranian reformist politician and academic who was chairman of City Council of Tehran from 3 September 2013 until 3 September 2014.
As the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant made significant gains in Iraq in mid-2014, many its Iraqi members returned home to defend the faltering government in Baghdad.
History An annual anti-Zionist day of protest was first suggested by Ebrahim Yazdi, the first foreign minister of the Islamic Republic of Iran, to Ruhollah Khomeini, the leader of the Iranian Revolution.
The 3rd generation of the Ya Zahra system, Ya Zahra-3, has electo-optical equipment that reportedly helps to detect and track targets when the battlefield is affected by heavy jamming.
Article 5: The expenses of organization should be provided from the revenues of Ministry of Industries and Mines, National Iranian Oil Company and Plan and Budget Organization of the Islamic Republic of Iran, as well as from the revenues from the sale of publications and services.
Farivar was a graduate of political science from University of Tehran, and for some time worked as an attaché at the Iranian embassy in Paris.
At its 45th meeting, on 29 April 1991, the Commission on Narcotic Drugs approved the transfer of dronabinol and its stereochemical variants from Schedule I to Schedule II of the Convention, while leaving other tetrahydrocannabinols and their stereochemical variants in Schedule I.
In the aftermath of the 2009 Iranian presidential election, he wrote a public letter, protesting the way Iranian youth were being treated.
These outlets have stated that the council's objectives include accelerating decision-making in response to security threats and centralising command structures.
Razmara began trimming the government payrolls, eliminating a large number of officials out of a total of 187,000 civil servants.
Iranian network intelligence in Jordan Iranian intelligence networks in Jordan became more active after the establishment of an Islamic regime in Iran.
The Sheibani Network was an Iraqi smuggling network and Shi'a Insurgent group led by Abu Mustafa al-Sheibani, an ex-commander of the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq's Badr Brigades.
Local elections were held in Iran on 15 October 1976 to elect the members of 435 municipal councils, 162 city and town councils, and 238 regional educational councils.
Raymond as "a tumbling webcam in space; unlikely providing intel." Then President Donald Trump said that the satellite launch is not an advancement on the Iran's missile program and the showcasing "was only for television," while the US is watching Iran very closely.
Jordan's ties with Israel and Saudi Arabia Another key reason for tensions between Jordan and Iran is Jordan's relationship with Saudi Arabia and Israel.
Sattar Vafaei, adviser for fairness and service Mohammad Javad Haj Ali Akbari, adviser for the youth Mehdi Chamran, adviser for city councils Brig.
Later he held the title of deputy prime minister for executive affairs in charge of Iran's oil barter deals with foreign states and companies under a countertrade system started in 1982.
According to the IMF, Islamic banking forbids pure monetary speculation and stresses that deals should be based on real economic activity and therefore poses less risk than conventional banking to the stability of financial systems.
Iranian freighter Arya Far passed through the river escorted by four gunboats three days later, with no disturbance.
Thus Iran, the Muslim world and eventually the whole world, must be ruled according to sharia, and the person who should rule according to sharia, is an expert in that form of law.
C) Record and compile the cultural and epic foundations of the Iran–Iraq War (sacred defense) in order to transmit them to future generations and other nations.
However, Hossein Qoli did not believe him, and thus waited for Sherif Pasha to arrive with his 17,000 soldiers.
After the Iran–Iraq War, the BAM members fled to neighboring Arab Persian Gulf nations, which led to the dissolution of the group.
It was originally adopted for the purpose of being able to prosecute criminals who were not citizens of the state but still committed acts which violated the laws of that territory of jurisdiction.
It should not be confused with the California-based Jaam-e-Jam channel which was created by Iranians who left after the revolution.
After completing his primary education, he graduated from Ferdowsi High School in Mashhad and received a bachelor's degree in literature from the University of Tehran.
Mohammad Hossein's fate underwent a great change when he began to work with Panayotti, an agent of a Greek firm in Tehran.
The 11th Reconnaissance Squadron (Iran) was a unit of the Imperial Iranian Air Force and later the Islamic Republic of Iran Air Force, consisting of highly professional pilots trained for deep penetration and aerial photography missions inside enemy territory.
The Shahid Ashraf Ganjouei Training Center 05 Kerman (Persian: مرکز آموزشی ۰۵ شهید اشرف گنجویی کرمان) known as Training Center 05 Kerman or 05 Kerman is one of the most important military training centers of the Islamic Republic of Iran Army Ground Forces.
In a joint press conference with German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas in December 2019, Zarif defended the Islamic Republic's repressive human rights record.
The huge reserves of natural gas put Iran in the second place, in terms of the natural gas reserve quantity, among other countries, only next to the Russian Federation, with an estimate of proven reserve quantity close to 23 bcm.
History On 16 December 1997, Sahar Universal Network began broadcasting English programs for one hour a day.
The group has been reported to engage in attacks against Syrians residing in Iraq, particularly those suspected of supporting Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham (HTS), a Sunni Islamist militant and political organization in Syria.
Criteria Based on 2014 Fars News Agency's interview with Soorena Sattari -the INEF president- among more than 77 million population of Iran only 13,000 people have the membership of INEF.
Functions The organization reported directly to the Shah, and was initially headed by General Hossein Fardoust, a childhood friend of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi.
Hossein Ala' (Persian: حسین علاء; 13 December 1881 – 13 July 1964) was an Iranian politician and statesman who served as Prime Minister of Iran in two terms.
They purchased a suitable location in the village area of Saraasiab Farsangi, which included a large garden called "Shatergaloo" and vast surrounding lands.
The rifle is said to have significantly improved capabilities over other Iranian marksman weapons and has been adopted by the Iranian Armed Forces.
History The Atmospheric Science and Meteorological Research Center (ASMERC) was founded in 1989 with the approval of the Ministry of Science, Research and Technology (Iran).
No one can deprive humans of this divine right or subordinate it to the interests of a particular individual or group.
Kazem Najafi Elmi and Hamid Mirzadeh were responsible for the Iran's 20-year vision plan expert group in the Expediency Discernment Council Secretariat.
The plan in consideration would establish a "Middle East Strategic Alliance" with six GCC states in addition to Jordan and Egypt.
When this rivalry became public, Ayatollah Khomeini met them in his residence on 19 July 1986 and urged them to "seek unity", telling them "You must endeavor, not to think in terms of being members of the Armed Forces or those of the Guards Corps or of the Basij forces.
Reaffirm commitment to enhance co-operation in the field of energy to develop alternative and renewable energy resources.
Objectives The Iran Freedom Congress, has set several main objectives, it wants to achieve: Encourage discussions about Iran's future after the Islamic Republic.
Iran is also pursuing a policy of stabilization and cooperation with the countries of the Caucasus and Central Asia, whereby it is seeking to capitalise on its central location to establish itself as the political and economic hub of the region.
Javanfekr had been put on trial after the publication of a series of articles about the chador, a traditional hijab garment that covers Iranian women from head to toe.
Bahram Parsaei (Persian: بهرام پارسایی, born 1971) is a reformist politician who was a member of the Parliament of Iran representing Shiraz electoral district.
Noor-1 carried a photo of former Quds Force Commander Qassem Soleimani and a Quranic verse about overcoming adversaries.
He was able to escape and lived underground for 6 months before fleeing to France in 1983 where he obtained political asylum.
On 10 February 2013, the head of Iran Aviation Industries Organization announced that an air-launched version of Qader and Nasr-1 would be tested soon.
Further investigations Iranian-born Dutch film maker Reza Allamehzadeh made a documentary on state terrorism of the Islamic government of Iran in European countries, Holy Crime, where the case of Mr.
These tribunals ruled on "Islamic law", but were in practice unfair, biased, and the judges were inexperienced and often incompetent.
Its fighters include Shia Damascenes, Damascus-based Shia Iraqi refugees, and foreign Shia volunteers, mostly from Iraq.
In the aftermath of the Umayyad dynasty's downfall in 750, Sulayman's family disappears from the historical record.
The brigade was also formed to fight alongside other Iran-backed militias (such as Zainabiyoun, Fatemiyoun, Hussainiyoun, Hezbollah) and to alleviate pressure on Shia foreign fighters and Shia militias who were already fighting in Eastern Syria.
Her other book, I am a Working Woman, talks about employment law and the rights of Afghan women in the labour market, and was published in 2008.
Disputes with Islamic Republic's leadership Ali Tehrani's estrangement from the leadership of the Islamic Republic began soon after the Islamic Revolution, when he advocated for a more liberal political system.
Likewise, the GCC provincial subsidiaries work closely with the Culture and Islamic Guidance Office to organize annual event like the Razavi Weeks of Culture and Lifestyle, a religious feast held in honour of the Ahl al-Bayt with the purpose to spread its values nationwide.
He prepared the proposal to establish a bank in 1879, and one of his important doings was the proposal to build the first iron foundry in Iran in 1887–8.
In December 2008, she was appointed mayor of the town of Nili, becoming the first and till then the only female mayor in Afghanistan.
In 1997, the Iranian Air Defense forces declared the Almaz S-200 Angara (SA-5 'Gammon') low-to high-altitude surface-to-air missile (SAM) operational.
IAEA inspectors also have the ability to request physical access to sites if specific concerns of non-compliance arise.
Travellers arriving in Iran must hold passports that are valid for at least 6 months beyond the intended period of stay.
Together with the mobile deployable Falaq, an Iranian version of the Russian 67N6E Gamma D radar the entire Iranian airspace has been covered As of 1996, Iranian Air Defense forces included about 18,000 military personnel.
Generally, the focus is to establish, design, and amend regional and international rules about the world system and the littoral states.
Later, Afrasiab Khan left the court life and started his own business as an importer-exporter and merchant based in Saraye Hajeb-o-Dowleh in Tehran Grand Bazaar.
Fluid Mechanics & Thermodynamics from Attestation d`Eludes Approfondies, Universite de Poitiers both in 1971 and M.Sc.
State-owned Mashregh News reported that Matla-ul-fajr 2 is a solid state 3D radar operating in VHF band.
Israeli sources call the group's reservists "relatively unskilled," while Hezbollah describes them as just as combat effective as full-time fighters.
Service flags Army Iranian Army has four major branches: Ground Forces, Air Force, Navy and Air Defense Force.
Following the passage of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1737 in 2006, UN financial sanctions required France to freeze dividend payments to the AEOI.
He was elected as the representative of Semnan province in the Assembly of Experts in the elections of March 2024.
United States – President Barack Obama said a "historic understanding" had been reached with Iran, and pointed out that the deal with Iran is a good deal if the deal could meet core objectives of the United States.
Mirbaqiri was elected as the representative of Alborz province in the Assembly of Experts in the elections of March 2016.
Following the fall of the Assad regime, the Free Palestine Movement attempted to distance itself from its former fighters, disavowing formerly prominent members such as Saed Abd Al-Aal and Abdul Qader Haifawi.
Assassination plot on Mike Pompeo In June 2025, The Washington Post, citing intelligence sources, reported that Iranian operatives came close to assassinating former US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo during his 2022 visit to Paris.
The Warsaw Mechanism, established two years earlier during COP19 and set to expire in 2016, categorizes loss and damage as a subset of adaptation, which was unpopular with many countries.
On 27 November, the government listed the IRGC as a "state sponsor of terrorism" with the Criminal Code Amendment (State Sponsors of Terrorism) Act 2025.
In 1951, he returned to Qom, since he did not have the means to survive and continue his studies in Najaf.
International Police of NAJA (Persian: پلیس بین‌الملل ناجا) is part of Law Enforcement Command of Islamic Republic of Iran in charge of extradition and tasked to cooperate with INTERPOL.
Russia has alternatively suggested to China to buy a stake in the Russian led Eurasian Development Bank.
The military had previously been asked to withdraw from the economy, by selling its businesses, by both Supreme Leader Ali Khamenehi and President Hassan Rohani.
After assuming office, Trump administration National Security Adviser Michael Flynn placed Iran "officially on notice" during a February 1 press conference.
Though the Red Lion and Sun has now fallen into disuse, Iran has, in the past, reserved the right to readopt it at any time; the Geneva Conventions continue to recognize it as an official emblem, and that status was confirmed by Protocol III in 2005, even as it added the neutral Red Crystal.
References External links Iran says it owns more uranium than needed Iran Denies Halt to 20 Percent Uranium Enrichment Final nuclear agreement seems impossible before deadline, Iran says
Fiscal pressures on the pension system were cited during the drafting of Iran’s Seventh Development Plan, which introduced statutory adjustments to retirement age thresholds and contribution periods.
The Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces Logistics (MODAFL; Persian: وزارت دفاع و پشتیبانی نیروهای مسلح, romanized: vezârat-e defa' va poštibâni-ye niruhâ-ye mosallah) is the defence ministry of Iran and part of the country's executive branch.
Kalameh website has stated that Jaleh was a member of Mir-Hossein Mousavi's election campaign team; Saham News Website has published a picture with Ayatollah Montazeri and claims that one of the men in the picture is Sane Jaleh.
Duties The most important goals and duties of the MBRI are as follows: Performing economic researches for individuals and organizations, domestically and internationally.
External links Media related to Ali-Asghar Hekmat at Wikimedia Commons Iran and India relations span centuries marked by meaningful interactions, according to renowned Iranian Scholar, Dr.
He is a former minister of health and medical education and president of the Iranian Society of Surgeons.
On the United Nations Human Development scale, Iran ranked 90th out of 162 countries, only slightly better than its previous position at 97 out of 175 countries four years earlier.
2011 merges and dismissals On 9 May, Ahmedinejad announced Ministries of Petroleum and Energy would merge, as would Industries and Mines with Commerce, and Welfare with Labour.
The military budget of Iran is the portion of the country's overall budget that is allocated for the funding of the Iranian Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defense and Armed Forces Logistics.
Losses Losses sustained by all taxpayers engaged in trading and other activities, who are required to keep proper books of account, provided they are accepted by the tax authorities; will be carried forward and written off against future profits for a period of three years.
All contracting work performed by foreign contractors, whether or not the company is registered in Iran, is taxed.
Some came from North Korean military stocks and were replaced by the originating country, while others were merely transshipped, still in the original factory crate.
This renewal initiates a new chapter in their relations, highlighted by Sudan's recent visit to Iran to acquire drones.
The agency split from the Intelligence Organization of the IRGC in 1984, and was mainly a military intelligence unit.
It is different from the first clause, and it has subtle differences with the second clause, as the policy is based on trying to communicate with the East and the West bilaterally, albeit prioritizing the East for geopolitical, cultural and economic needs.
External links The Fundamentals of Iran’s Islamic Revolution Institute for Global Change The Export of Islamic Revolution in Iran and Its Threat for the US, the Soviet Union, and Arab Countries Khamenei’s Aide Calls for Exporting Iran’s Revolution abroad Iran: Concept of Export of Revolution
Unwilling to bend to the influence of Azmoun, Mojdehi unilaterally resigned as Minister of Health, without seeking the permission of the Shah.
In October 2018, an IRGC unit in charge of the body's economic operations announced in a statement it has left Iran's telecommunications industry, after selling its share in a consortium controlling Iran's top telecoms companies and biggest mobile phone operator.
The Intelligence Protection Organization has three subsidiary units: the Supreme Leader’s Protection Corps (Sazman-e Sepah-e Vali-e Amr); the Ansar-al-Mahdi Protection Unit; and the Aviation Protection Organization (or Airlines' Protection Unit) (Sepah-e Hefazat-e Havapeimaei).
In his resignation letter to Khomeini, Bazargan lamented that "repeated interferences, inconveniences, objections and disputes have made [The Interim Government] unable to continue [meeting its] duties." Power then passed into the hands of the Council of the Islamic Revolution.
According to Business Monitor International, unless and until economic policies in Iran change radically, the reality of the insurance sector will fall a long way short of its potential.
The Serbian president was one of several European heads of state and government who traveled to Iran once international sanctions over Tehran's nuclear program were lifted.
He himself joined the IRGC in 1980, around the onset of the Iran–Iraq War, although reports suggest he saw limited combat during the conflict.
Imam Khamenei University of Marine University and Technology Officers' University is affiliated with the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps, located in the city Rasht, Iran.
On 24 August 2005, he became the minister of labor and social affairs in the first cabinet of Mahmoud Ahmedinejad.
Mokhber's cousin, Mohammad Reza Mokhber, is an Iranian politician and a lecturer at the University of Tehran.
From 1938 to 1939 he was chosen to command the Military Section of the 7th and 13th regiments positioned in Fars province and replaced the commander of the 6th regiment from 1940 to 1941.
Background The Islamic Consultative Assembly met on 18 May 2020 to discuss the drafting of the law—representatives were given 24 hours to review presented details.
Trial in Baghdad The Báb gave Bastámí the very specific mission of leaving Persia and travelling to the holy Shiʻa shrine cities of Najaf and Karbala in modern-day Iraq about the summer of 1844.
He then became a member of the Parliament, and served as cabinet minister 17 times, as prime minister for three terms, and as speaker of the Senate of Iran.
D-8 Summits Member countries Secretaries-General The Secretary General of the D-8 Organization for Economic Cooperation serves as the chief executive of the Secretariat.
However, this was rejected by a vote at the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs on 2 December 2020.
McMaster has called the Iran deal "fundamentally flawed", and added the "incompleteness" of the deal "could give the regime cover to advance a nuclear program." In October 2017, McMaster invited a group of Democratic senators to the White House for a policy discussion on the deal.
However, during the reign of Nero, Vologases I invaded Armenia and installed his own brother on the throne, disrupting the balance of influence which had hitherto existed there.
It is fully owned and operated by the Iranian government through the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting.
Hafte Tir bombing allegations On 28 June 1981, two bombs were detonated at the IRP headquarters in Tehran, killing Chief Justice Mohammad Beheshti and some seventy Iranian officials.
The Order of Zolfaghar consists of three classes: 1st Class: worn with a badge and a sash 2nd Class: worn with a collar, as a neck-order 3rd Class: worn as a medal.
An independent review concluded that Bristol City Council and the police were guilty of institutional racism in dealings with Bijan Ebrahimi.
On 20 December 2014, the channel changed from a provincial to a national channel, adding programs focusing on the economy.
Additional protections apply in cases such as maternity, loss of a household breadwinner, and legally defined social vulnerability, subject to eligibility criteria established in law.
This commission has incurred allegations of corruption, and generated widespread alarm due to Iran's history of opaque privatization efforts which benefit the security establishment and powerful elites (see Corruption and Abuse of Power).
Another controversy would be certain POPs (which are continually active, specifically in the Arctic Biota) that were mentioned in the Stockholm Convention, but were not part of the Dirty Dozen such as perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS).
Finally, it is identified as the National Geographical Organization of Iran or National Geographical Organization of the Armed Forces of Iran.
The Battle of Waj Rudh (Waay Rudha) was fought in 642/643 between the Rashidun Caliphate under Nu'man, and the Sasanian Empire under the Dailamite Muta, the Parthian Farrukhzad and Isfandiyar, and the Armenian Varaztirots.
During the 2024 Syrian opposition offensives, it was reported that 25 pro-Assad/Iran-backed militiamen were killed during the clashes with at least 15 of them being non-Syrian militiamen.
The same day, the Asian Football Confederation banned Iran from hosting international football matches, adding to the country's growing isolation.
On 17 July 1985, Soleimani opposed the IRGC leadership's plan to deploy forces to two islands in western Arvand Rud, on the Shatt al-Arab River.
The liquefied natural gas (LNG) storage facility built in 2014 and named "Shourijeh" can supply 4.8 billion cubic metres of natural gas and aims to reduce gas imports from Turkmenistan.
Nejad claimed in his testimony that the original plan was to begin shooting hostages if their demands were not met within a day; he said there had been a split amongst the gunmen after the leader, Towfigh, would not relate the conversation he had with the police outside.
Nuclear energy Cuba supports Iran's program to develop nuclear technology for peaceful purposes, though the countries agreed to stop the proliferation of nuclear weapons.
Zarif attended Drew College Preparatory School, a private college-preparatory high school located in San Francisco, California.
Ashna is described to be in Rouhani's inner circle and associated with the Moderation and Development Party.
The Imam Ali military base was an Iranian military base located near the eastern Syrian town of Abu Kamal, near the border with Iraq.
Between 1899 and 1900, he studied English at the American Memorial School in Tabriz, a Presbyterian mission institution.
The division was organized and nicknamed "Najaf Ashraf" by Ahmad Kazemi, which was appointed as its commander by Gholam Ali Rashid.
Sobhani was a former member of the Society of Seminary Teachers of Qom and founder of Imam Sadiq Institute in Qom.
The Baqir Brigade has also been noted for its strong connections to the Lebanese Hezbollah, Iran, and various Shiite Iraqi militias, and was thus generally considered to be a Shia or "Shi'ified" fighting force.
4030 hotline in the 2025 Israel-Iran crisis During the 12-day conflict between Israel and Iran, the Red Crescent's 4030 hotline, operated in collaboration with the Iranian Red Crescent Society, managed 90,174 calls with the assistance of 1,377 volunteer counselors (465 of whom were online).
Programs As of January 2025, the combined number of users across Iranian messaging apps exceeded 100 million due to their connection to the Message Exchange Bus (MXB), which links all the messaging apps together.
The Combatant Clergy Association and the Society of Seminary Teachers of Qom, as clerical organizations, exist indefinitely, while all other classic parties, are created for specific elections and disbanded before the next one, to continue their work under a different name.
One of them was a satirical magazine entitled Tawfiq which was closed by the government due to its frequent cartoons mocking Prime Minister Hazhir.
They also visited the residences of Ayatollah Khomeini, the father of the Republic, as well as those of Ayatollahs Montazeri and Marashi Najafi.
This was not the first time the Sasanians drew up their armies at the walls of Constantinople, but this time the invasion was more widespread.
As a spokesperson of Solidarity Party of Afghanistan till August 2021, she was known for being outspoken against US-NATO occupation and warlords.
Early life and education Born into a privileged family, Mojdehi's father was a career civil servant and was Commander of Langarood and Ghazvin regions, among others.
Meguertitch and his men arrested Khazal and took him by motorboat down the river to Mohammerah, where a car was waiting to take him to the military base in Ahvaz.
He was also one of the founding members of the IRGC in the provinces of Gilan and Mazandaran in 1979.
Jordan was also alleged to have been working with Saudi Arabia, Russia, and Israel in an attempt to curb Iranian involvement in Syria.
Although he worked for some period of time as a clergyman and preacher, his first and foremost passion had always been writing, especially of poetry, as well as carrying out historical researches and teaching.
During the Sasanian Empire era, taxation became more complete and three types of taxes were received: land, census and per capita.
Tondar Missile (Persian: تندر) is an Iranian Anti-tank guided missile fired from the barrels of T-72 tanks.
According to the New York Times, "shops in Mahabad and Sanandaj were closed" after Kurds called for a general strike in response to the death of Jaleh.
He was described as the "linchpin" bringing together Kurdish and Shia forces to fight ISIS, overseeing joint operations conducted by the two groups.
The cultural revolution involved violence in taking over the university campuses since higher education in Iran at the time was dominated by leftists forces opposed to Ayatollah Khomeini's vision of theocracy, and they (unsuccessfully) resisted Khomeiniist control at many universities.
In his view, the news coverage diminished the value of Iran's protests, limiting it to the economic sphere, while the slogans suggested that the political dimension of the demonstrations was also significant.
Rouhani led Iran's nuclear case under President Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani and President Mohammad Khatami as tensions began to escalate over Iran's nuclear program.
The new Islamic Penal Code was adopted in January 2012 and incorporates the bulk of penal laws in the IRI, replacing Books One through Four of the old code.
Ghaznavids and Oghuz, mid 11th century CE Previously, the various military actions in the vicinity had meant relatively little to the people of Ray, because each successive ruler had an interest in keeping the city's commercial life running as smoothly as possible, and levying taxes.
These included an individual's income tax (Arabic khums, “one-fifth”); an alms-tax (zakat), which has a variable rate and benefits charitable causes; and a land tax (kharaj), the rate of which is based on the principle of one-tenth (ushr) of the value of crops, unless the land is tax-exempt.
Iran reiterated that all national nuclear projects are conducted by the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran (AEOI), that the allegations were baseless and that it would provide further clarifications later.
During the Anglo-Soviet occupation of Iran during World War II, Entezam served in a number of positions, including Minister of Public Health, Minister of Post and Telegraph, Minister of Roads, and, in 1944-1945, Minister of Foreign Affairs under Prime Minister Bayat.
On 21 April, the Institute for the Study of War reported a major disagreement between Vahidi and Iranian parliament speaker Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, with Ghalibaf favoring participating in negotiations and Vahidi opposing participation.
According to the scheme, foreign government associates are obligated to declare their political lobbying and communication activities, or face penalties of one to five years of imprisonment.
The international federations (IFs) governing various sports began to sanction South Africa, both in response to the new restrictions and in reflection of the broader anti-racism of national federations in newly independent postcolonial states.
Reception National Security and Nuclear Diplomacy was presented in bookstores without any unveiling ceremony and simply after limited introduction on a few websites.
These inspections target destruction facilities (where constant monitoring takes place during destruction), chemical weapons production facilities which have been dismantled or converted for civil use, as well as inspections of the chemical industry.
To facilitate this, the agreement established the Global Stocktake, which assesses progress, with the first evaluation in 2023.
This organization is primarily responsible for regulating aviation, overseeing flight safety, issuing licenses, and evaluating the performance of airlines and airports.
Larijani condemned protesters and those who expressed doubts in the 2009 presidential election results, calling the protests "illegal" and any doubts "baseless".
Some have alleged Saudi Arabian and Israeli involvement in the failed April 2021 coup attempt in Jordan, which has been related to Jordanian unofficial opposition to the 'deal of the century' proposed by the United States as a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict.
The firman was translated into Hebrew from Turkish by Advocate Yosef Hai Fenizil, and shows that the business was located in Rehov Hayehudim and had permission to undertake printing in Turkish, Arabic, Hebrew, English, German, French and Italian.
On June 16, Iranian facilities interfered with ship position reporting, causing a nuisance to shipping in the Strait of Hormuz.
The assumed minimum monthly salaries in 2004 range from US$2,500 for unskilled European workers to US$7,000 for European managing directors.
Education and academic career Mowlana was founding director of the International Communication Program in the School of International Service at American University from 1968 to 2005.
These procedures and requirements are designed to provide importing Parties with the necessary information needed for making informed decisions about whether or not to accept LMO imports and for handling them in a safe manner.
Sulayman charged Salih with the arrest, torture and execution of several member of the Abu Aqil clan to which al-Hajjaj belonged.
Broadcasting of Radio Tehran programs is 24 hours, which started on 13 August 1996, corresponding to 17 Rabi al-Awwal.
Activities The Islamic Development Coordination Council facilitates and aligns development efforts among various development agencies and centers.
So, he continued to work in the same manner as before, and by his order, the current building of Radio Tehran, which was the location of Customs Office, was assigned to the Ministry of Finance.
Formation In 1980, a battalion was established consisting of forces from Sistan and Baluchestan province, Hormozgan province and Kerman province to fight in the Iran–Iraq War.
Iranian officials have said that transgender people have "a special physical and psychological condition", and they most usually classify this as "gender identity disorder", which is considered to be outdated by the ICD-11's most recent versions.
The taxpayer or the tax administration can choose to appoint an official accountant or a designated firm of official accountants to examine his records and report to the tax authorities.
Narration of Foresight and Hope Excerpts from National Security and Nuclear Diplomacy were published in March 2013, entitled Narration of Foresight and Hope, along with photos of nuclear negotiations in 552 pages.
There was jubilation on the streets of Abadan at her arrival, and the ship was greeted with flowers sweets and festive music.
urbanization - the tendency of Geography and Urban Planning Master of Public Administration (Graduate Institute of Research Management and Planning, 2003) Civil engineer Islamic Azad University of Maragheh Mayor of Qazvin Mayor of Rasht == References ==
The Ministry of Interior of the Islamic Republic of Iran is in charge of performing, supervising and reporting elections, policing, and other responsibilities related to an interior ministry.
From August 2009 to February 2013, nine ministers in the cabinet were dismissed by the Majlis, the last of who was labor minister, Reza Sheykholeslam at the beginning of February 2013.
The images, paintings, sculpture, tableaux, and related objects that may constitute visual art, must also undergo vetting.
The 4030 Call System (Persian: سامانه تلفنی ۴۰۳۰) briefly "4030-system" is the Iranian telephone system that was created during the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic in Iran for expert consulting and corona-screening (of coronavirus suspects).
After returning to Iran, she began lecturing at the University of Tehran, later becoming a headteacher at the Parvin, Shahdokht, and Nurbaksh girls high schools, as well as serving as director of the Higher Education and Teacher Training department in the Ministry of Education.
The IRGC was the first entity to be designated as such, after the Minister of Home Affairs determined that it met the criteria specified in Division 110 of the code, thereby following the recommendations of Australian Government intelligence, security and policy agencies.
On 12 June, the last day of Trump's two-month deadline, the IAEA found Iran non-compliant with its nuclear obligations for the first time in 20 years.
Trade activity He built up his wealth as a money changer, a trader in textiles, precious stones, opium, carpets, agricultural products, and staple foodstuffs amongst other goods, and judicious transactions in land.
Value-added tax (VAT) and personal income taxes were raised, with a 10% increase for minimum wage earners and up to 50% for higher-income groups.
Reacting to the confirmation of his death by Iran, Iran's supreme leader Mojtaba Khamenei released a public statement expressing regret and vows for vengeance.
The government was dissolved in August 1977 and replaced by that of new Prime Minister Jamshid Amouzegar.
Zavareʾi was also prosecutor of the Islamic Revolution Court in Tehran and a deputy to interior minister after the 1979 revolution.
In January 2008, Roland Dumas declared: "It was I who negotiated the repayment of Iran's debt in Eurodif.
The Tribunal The Tribunal sat in the Peace Palace in The Hague between the 25th and 27 October 2012.
The cash tax collected by the central government at this time was reported to be 12,480 Babylonian Talent (measurement) (about $ 24 million today).
Prime Minister Mosaddegh justified it as "the will of the people is above law" to legitimize the dissolution of Parliament.
Fars News Agency reported that he was killed by a U.S.–Israeli strike as he was visiting his daughter in the outskirts of eastern Tehran.
It has also stringers and correspondents in Europe, South America, Turkey, East Asia, and some Persian Gulf littoral states and Commonwealth of Independent States for the time–being and is extending them across the world.
Following this warning, representatives of the Consortium member companies, fully aware of the stance of the National Iranian Oil Company on the terms and conditions to be revised, visited the Shah several times in the winter of 1972 in St.
Development of nuclear technology began in the Pahlavi era and continued after the 1979 Iranian Revolution.
However, after an interview with Hassan Rouhani by Mehrnameh magazine in May 2012, the book hit the headlines not only in domestic print media, but also in their counterparts outside the country, including the BBC Persian TV, and many critiques were written about it.
Iranian foreign ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh tweeted: "The Turkish ambassador was told that basing foreign policy on illusions is not wise," advising Turkish officials to read history.
He was also a contributing editor of the Journal of Communication as well as the mass media editor of Intellect of the Society for Advancement of Education.
Two of Abu al-Tayyib's prominent students, Abu Ishaq al-Shirazi and Ibn al-Sabbagh, who were rivals during the founding of the Nizamiyya of Baghdad in 459/1066–67, perpetuated the Shafiʿite leadership.
Other than weapons, the group also smuggled money, designated for special groups, from Iran to Iraq and transported militiamen from other groups from Iraq to Iran and Lebanon to receive training.
He further added that the regime did not hand over his brother's body to the family and that he is being buried by his murderers.
On 26 October 2022, women foreign ministers from a dozen nations led by Canada's Melanie Joly jointly condemned Iran's violent crackdown on women's rights.
The bulk of Iran's Air Force Air Defense holdings by the mid-1990s revolved around 30 Improved HAWK fire units (12 battalions/150+ launchers), 45-60 SA-2 and HQ-2J/23 (CSA-1 Chinese equivalents of the SA-2) launchers.
A Central Intelligence Agency assessment of 7 November 1979 said that Iranian military capabilities '..had not recovered significantly since the collapse of the armed forces in the February revolution.
It is responsible for defending the Iranian infrastructure from biologic, cyber, nuclear, electronic, chemical warfare and the CBRNE threat.
Music diplomacy Music diplomacy is one aspect of cultural diplomacy that seeks to engage foreign publics through musical performances.
Hajati was released ten days after detention with a bail of US$47,500, he was banned from sitting on the Shiraz City Council and was placed under judicial supervision for six months.
Assuming the viewpoint of the American government, is it rational to launch a classic war through widespread deployment of troops that led to the death of hundreds of thousands of people to counter a terrorist group?
Also in this year Iran, Syria and Libya say that they should all develop nuclear weapons to counter the Israeli nuclear threat.
Ahmadinejad met foreign minister Elmar Mammadyarov of Azerbaijan to discuss increased cooperation between the two nations.
Article 27 discussed the three categories that the power of the realm is divided into as: First, the legislative power which is specially concerned with the making or amelioration of laws.
Throughout the war most or all militias operated with little regard for human rights, and the sectarian character of some battles, made non-combatant civilians a frequent target.
Thirteen men were convicted and executed for the incident, including two who were in prison at the time.
Other prisons in Shiraz include Pirbanoo Prison (for drug-related offenses) and the Shiraz Military Prison.
ISBN 0-19-506822-X John Foran, The Strengths and Weaknesses of Iran’s Populist Alliance: A Class Analysis of the Constitutional Revolution of 1905 - 1911, Theory and Society, Vol.
See also Foreign relations of Iran Foreign relations of Romania Iranians in Romania References External links Bilateral relations on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Romania (Romanian)
According to an unnamed former employee of Setad who spoke to Reuters, Khamenei appoints the board of directors but delegates management of Setad to others, having himself just one primary interest—Setad's "annual profits, which he uses to fund his bureaucracy".
However this idea was excluded due to fears of creating sectarian quotas like in Iraq and Lebanon, it was replaced by elections without specifying seats for sects.
In 1971, he exiled to Zabol, a city in Sistan and Baluchestan Province and then to Baft, a city of Kerman Province.
Larijani, however, was neither an experienced jurist nor a highly ranked cleric and carried the title of Hojjat-ol Eslam up to a few months before his appointment to the post.
The Bolivian, North Korean, Honduran, Lebanese, and, Mongolian flags of convenience have not ratified the treaty.
It has been sanctioned by the United States Department of State and United States Department of the Treasury.
On his mother's side he was the grandson of Hossein Ali Mirza, the eldest son of Mohammad Ali Shah Qajar.
There are 2000 phone lines and 2,200 doctors and paramedics throughout Iran who are working at this call system, and answer questions related to COVID-19.
He was appointed Presidential economic advisor and minister of state for economic affairs by Rouhani on 4 September 2013.
The Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety to the Convention on Biological Diversity is an international agreement on biosafety as a supplement to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) effective since 2003.
Moreover, following his victory in the Second Muslim Civil War in 692, he embarked on a major centralization drive, which came with measures to unify the caliphate's widely varied tax systems.
See also List of military equipment manufactured in Iran Islamic Republic of Iran Air Force == References ==
International organizations The Arab League condemned the operation based on violation of Iraq's sovereign space.
On 5 November 1978, Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi appointed General Gholam Reza Azhari as prime minister of Iran to lead a military government amid deepening unrest across the country.
A ratifying state agrees to enforce the prohibitions of the convention on all ships flying its flag and on any ship that enters a port, shipyard, or offshore terminal of the state.
Most controversially, Amini gave three ministries to "middle-class reformers who had in the past criticized the political influence of the shah as well as the corrupt practices of the landed families".
According to the secretary of this council, after the issue was raised with Seyyed Ali Khamenei, he interpreted this issue as a "missing strategic link" and instructed the Expediency Discernment Council to draw up a twenty-year vision for the country's future.
Much of the railway network already exists as part of the Eurasian Land Bridge, although significant gaps remain.
Articles Article I declares apartheid a violation of the charter of the UN and a crime against humanity in its racial segregation and discrimination.
This article lists the heads of state of Iran since the establishment of the modern Iranian nation-state in 1501.
Career Prior to the 1979 Iranian Revolution Ghorbanifar was an agent of Iran's SAVAK intelligence service, and a partner in an Israeli-Iranian shipping company, Starline Iran, which shipped oil from Iran to Israel.
Following the treaty's entry into force, it was closed for signature and the only method for non-signatory states to become a party was through accession.
During his funeral another leading opposition figure, Dariush Forouhar, was abducted by the Iranian intelligence personnel.
The Shah's Inspection was not subordinate to the Majlis, the Rastakhiz Party, the government, the police, or the armed forces—it was accountable only to the Shah.
On 31 January, he was released on bail of two billion tomans, the equivalent of roughly 18 US Dollars at exchange rates at that time.
== History == Background Before 1989, the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran provided that head of government was the Prime Minister, nominated by the President and approved by the Parliament.
Following is a list of Iranian senators (in alphabetical order by last name) who are notable for their work.
He served as the minister of Higher Education in 1985 and the minister of Health and Medical Education in 1989.
The company has thousands of square meters of available grounds, and 250,000 square metres of shops and hangars are allocated to A/C part manufacturing, assembling, laboratories, flight test facilities and shops of preparation for production.
In the 1960s Afshar was among the Iranian statesmen who favoured Iran's close relations with the U.S.
(Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance), the Iranian National Tax Administration is also incharge of collection of taxes from the public and supervises the implementation of tax laws and regulations in Iran.
The Government of Iran claims that UAE and Saudi Arabia collaborate with each other in attempt to destabilize Iran.
Rather, it is understood as bringing the body closer to the soul." Two studies have contested the belief that social pressure made cisgender homosexuals undergo sex change surgery.
Seyed Javad Sadatinejad (Persian: سید جواد ساداتی‌نژاد, born 1972, Kashan) is an Iranian politician and representative of the tenth and eleventh terms of the Islamic Parliament of Iran and former Minister of Agriculture in the government of Ebrahim Raisi.
Also, Islam is seen in his sermons and writings as a religion that set up progressive rules in societal and individual life.
While at college, before the Iranian Revolution, Shamkhani was member of a clandestine Islamist guerilla group named Mansouroun (lit.
Rajai remained in office for less than one month, with both he and his prime minister being assassinated on August 30, 1981.
It had also actively participated in two international summits – the 2009 World Media Summit in Beijing, China, and the 2010 OANA Summit Congress in Seoul, South Korea.
In 1968, the IOC was prepared to readmit South Africa after assurances that its team would be multi-racial; but a threatened boycott by African nations and others forestalled this.
Another study has shown that the London Agreement can be associated with a "rise in real per capita social expenditure in health, education, housing, and economic development".
On 20 April 2022, according to a statement by the semi-official Fars news agency, Iran's intelligence ministry claimed it had captured three Mossad spies.
Department of State titled Parameters for a Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action Regarding the Islamic Republic of Iran's Nuclear Program.
This center works primarily and directly for members of the Majlis, their committees and staff on a confidential, nonpartisan basis.
Their search resulted in the discovery of mass graves in Khavaran Cemetery between July 10 and August 6, 1988.
April 1994: A PIJ member attacked a group of Israelis waiting for a bus at the city of Ashdod, killing one and injuring others.
In the agreement the members promised to reduce their carbon output "as soon as possible" and to do their best to keep global warming "to well below 2 degrees C" (3.6 °F).
In 1965, the unit was renamed Training Center 305 Kerman, and in 1968, it became known as Training Center 05 Kerman.
The Council then called on both countries to settle the disputes between them and exercise utmost restraint in the prevailing situation.
After his father's death, he became known as Mostowfi ol-Mamalek and took over the presidency of Mostowfis.
Article 6 The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is obliged to submit a report on the implementation of the Act to the National Security and Foreign Policy Commission of the Islamic Consultative Assembly once every two weeks.
See also References External links Organization of Defensive Innovation and Research Organisation of Defensive Innovation and Research (SPND) SPND Legal and Budget Analysis U.S.
Gallery See also Iran–United States relations Embassy of the United States, Tehran Embassy of Iran, Washington, D.C.
See also Bonyad Economy of Iran Iranian Economic Reform Plan IRGC Banking in Iran Foundation for the Preservation and Publication of Sacred Defense Works and Values == References ==
The Constitutional Council is uniquely involved in the legislative process, with equal oversight with regards to economic law and social policy, including such controversial topics as abortion.
On 12 Farvadin, the referendum results were announced, with 98.2 percent of the Iranians reportedly voting for an Islamic Republic.
In Persian Mahsa means "similar to the moon" and in Kurdish, Jina means "life" or "a life-giving person".
(See also: Clericalism in Iran) Deviant current are a political faction led by Mahmoud Ahmadinejad that espouses Islamic populism and Iranian nationalism.
Diplomatic relations between the Portuguese Republic and the Islamic Republic of Iran date back to the 16th century, following the establishment of the Portuguese State of India.
Still, the United States continued to sell large amounts of weapons to Iran until the 1979 Islamic Revolution.
Prior to 1979, the Bands of the Imperial Immortal Guard provided musical accompaniment for official events of state.
Hence, unlike most other countries where hosting these websites might potentially lead to prosecution, it is very efficient to do so in Iran.
References External links Official website of Municipalities and Village Administrations Organization
Failure to broadcast or malfunctioning AIS can also have serious consequences and decreases safety at the seas.
Even prior to the election of Ahmadinejad and his subsequent reelection in 2009, bilateral relations had increased significantly.
The prison's official name is Shiraz Central Prison, but it is widely known as Adelabad Prison due to its location in the Adelabad district.
The 1973 Sale and Purchase Agreement was a 20-year agreement pressured by the Shah of Iran on the oil consortium that nullified The Consortium Agreement of 1954 and provided the National Iranian Oil Company with complete control of Iranian petroleum, nationalizing the nation's oil reserves.
It is claimed these efforts were accelerated under President Barack Obama's administration, with the facilities facing trouble with poor designs and difficulty obtaining parts, due to sanctions imposed by the United Nations.
The Japanese government feared any possible conflict with Britain so Idemitsu secretly dispatched Managing Director Keisuke Idemitsu to Iran as a negotiator.
Reports indicate that on 1 September, the first anniversary of the executions, security and intelligence forces attacked the families and proceeded to arrest a number of them.
Owners General Martiros Khan Davidkhanian, a prominent member of the Davidkhanian family, owned the house for much of the 19th century while serving as a General and Chief of Staff of the Persian Cossack Brigade as well as teaching French and Russian at Dar ul-Funun as a professor.
The lands ceded by the treaty, which set the boundaries between Iran and Russia at the Aras River, now constitute large parts of the Republic of Azerbaijan, Armenia, and Turkey.
Noor-2, the second satellite of the Noor class, was launched on 8 March 2022 (during the Sha'baniyah holiday) to a 500 kilometer orbit.
Seyyed Jalaleddin Taheri Esfahani (Persian: سید جلال‌الدین طاهری اصفهانی, sometimes spelled Jalaluddin Taheri or Jalaleddin Taheri, 1 January 1926 – 2 June 2013) was an Iranian scholar, theologian and Islamic philosopher.
1, 2018, the Khorramshahr medium-range ballistic missile was tested at its facility near Shahrud, in northeast Iran.
The East-Azerbaijan Provincial Palace (Persian: کاخ استانداری آذربایجان شرقی) is the main office for Iran's East-Azerbaijan provincial governor in downtown Tabriz.
At a press conference on 6 March, ahead of the election]], Muqtada al-Sadr called on all Iraqis to participate in the election and support those seeking the withdrawal of U.S.
Relations with the US remained marred by mutual suspicion and distrust, but during Khatami's two terms, Tehran increasingly made efforts to play a greater role in the Persian Gulf region and beyond.
Israel's defensive operation Israel used the high-altitude Arrow 3 and the medium-range David's Sling systems to shoot down the incoming weapons, and jammed electronic guidance systems to disrupt missile navigation.
Apart from the allegation that Iran was in defiance of its obligations under the before mentioned international treaties, the application also alleged that Iran supported and was continuing to support the actions against the embassy and its personnel.
Military career After completing his military education in Moscow, Iskandar returned to Tabriz in 1887 where he immediately entered the Iranian military with the rank of Sarhang.
'chief of the regiment') is a title and military rank of Iranian origin, a compound of sar ("head, chief") and hang ("regiment").
Ali Ardashir Larijani (3 June 1958 – 17 March 2026) was an Iranian politician, military officer, and philosopher who served as the secretary of the Supreme National Security Council from 2025 until his assassination.
Awards Azra Jafari has been awarded the Meeto Memorial Award at the Pakistan National Council of the Arts for her work and commitment to social development.
Tayseer Jabari: military leader who succeeded Baha Abu al-Ata, killed on 5 August 2022 during Operation Breaking Dawn.
If I am not mistaken he is of those whose genius is capable of inspiring great enthusiasm, great sacrifices, and whose influence leaves a lasting impression of the history of nations." (Edward Granville Browne) "In which position was Taqizadeh true and sincere?
According to Iran International, the Iranian government was forging fake medical records for Amini, showing that she had a history of heart disease.
It had operated primarily in Damascus, Aleppo and other regions of Syria defending holy sites from ISIL until 2024.
Between January 1980 and the overthrow of President Abolhassan Banisadr in June 1981, at least 906 government opponents were executed.
Sobhani's important teachers were Seyyed Hossein Borujerdi, Khomeini, and Mirza Sayyed Mohammad Tabatabai near 15 years.
He argues that some kind of militia led by Khalid and Abu al-Abbas indeed originated in 2012, but that this earlier formation was reorganized or consolidated into the present-day Baqir Brigade only as part of the Local Defence Forces with strong Iranian and Hezbollah support around 2014.
Following his death, a vast crowd of mourners crowded Tehran’s Armenian church to pay respects to him.
Overview IAIO acts as a policy maker and coordinator to promote an indigenous Iranian aeronautical industry by providing and assisting the Iranian aircraft industries with technologies, knowledge and parts.
The Urmia Manifesto was notably secular in its content, advocating for Assyria led by intellectual and political leaders rather than the clergy.
He is a lecturer of various mechanical engineering courses and topics related to internal combustion engines (gas turbines) in different universities of the country.
While in Qom he was taught by the likes of Ruhollah Khomeini, Seyyed Mohammad Hojjat Kooh Kamari, Hossein Borujerdi, Seyed Mohammad Mohaghegh Damad, Ahmad Khonsari and Muhammad Husayn Tabatabai.
As a result, Reza Khan led a detachment of over 3,000 soldiers from the Brigade that March, and seized the capital, forcing the dissolution of the Qajar dynasty.
Rouhani, in his first comments after days of anti-government demonstrations said people have the right to protest but stressed violence, vandalism and inflammatory political slogans must be avoided as these only worsen the conditions of the people.
Khamenei further wrote an open letter to American students in 2024, which garnered a harsh reaction from the United States.
The Council of the Islamic Revolution formed the Interim Government on Ruhollah Khomeini's request after the resignation of Mehdi Bazargan because of the Iran hostage crisis happening at the time.
Finnish President Sauli Niinistö and Prime Minister Sanna Marin gave their condolences on Twitter and condemned all forms of terrorism.
You said the Zionist Regime that is a usurper and illegitimate regime and a cancerous tumor should be wiped off the map.
Argentina's highest court formally charged Vahidi for the 1994 attack on the AMIA Jewish Community center in Buenos Aires.
Overview As of 1978–1979, Iranian Navy had the following equipment according to The Statesman's Yearbook: Commissioned vessels Planned vessels References "IRAN: Keshvaré Shahanshahiyé Irân", The Statesman's Year-Book 1978–79, Springer, 2016, pp.
The tenure of the Alam cabinet ended on 18 February 1963 when Prime Minister Alalm submitted his resignation to the Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi.
He also founded Assyrian libraries in both Tbilisi and Moscow and as a poet wrote numerous poems dedicated to the Assyrian cause and Assyrian culture.
deployed 1,500 additional troops to the Gulf, and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo declared an "emergency" over Iran, allowing the administration to bypass congressional review and authorize $8 billion in arms sales to ally Saudi Arabia, citing the national security interest of the United States.
After Mahmoud Ahmadinejad became President of Iran, Sri Lanka was the first country he visited on his inaugural Asian tour.
It was established by order of the Supreme Leader of Iran at the end of Iran-Iraq war in October 1990.
However, UNCLOS doesn't apply to straits in which long-standing treaties apply and the Danish Government asserts that the 1857 Copenhagen Convention qualifies as such a treaty under Article 35, meaning that UNCLOS part III, section 2, does not apply in the Danish Straits.
Aspects of US cultural diplomacy The soft power created by the United States through the media and cultural diplomacy has played an important role in creating the demands of the people who want democracy, human rights, and economic and social justice.
List of missile tests On 10 October 2015, Iran tested precised Emad missile that has a declared range of 1700 km and a new precision guidance system.
passing off used goods as new, concealing defects in goods), transactions that violate Islamic law (e.g.
The US chief negotiator was Deputy Secretary of State Warren Christopher, while the chief Algerian mediator was the Algerian Foreign Affairs Minister Mohammed Benyahia accompanied with a team of Algerian intelligence including Prime Minister Mohammed ben Ahmed Abdelghan and Mr Rashid Hassaine.
the Paris Convention), 1959 Iran is a signatory to the International Convention for Protection of Industrial Property (also known as the Paris Convention).
There were 192 parties (Canada withdrew from the protocol, effective December 2012) to the Protocol in 2020.
When the shipowner is not at fault, the convention caps liability at between 3 million special drawing rights (SDR) for a ship of 5,000 GT to 59.7 million SDR for ships over 140,000 GT.
His wife was also arrested as an accomplice and was accused of aiding and abetting in at least six of the cases.
List See also Women's fraction List of female members of the Cabinet of Iran References Fereshteh Ghazi (4 February 2016).
I also said that during a long discussion, the Shah told me that Iran did not need nuclear weapons, because our strong conventional forces would guarantee our security and national interests.
Chapter four, Eliminating National Security Threats (October 2003 – November 2003), tells the memories of the author as he started off as head of the nuclear team within the Supreme National Security Council, including an account of Saadabad negotiations and declaration (in Tehran).
Early life and education Hamid Reza Chitgar was born in the town of Babol in the Mazandaran province of Iran in 1949.
The British Anglo-Iranian Oil company (AIOC) filed a lawsuit requesting a provisional injunction for the seizure of oil products carried by the Nissho Maru, but the Tokyo District Court and the Tokyo High Court refused to grant one, and the British were unsuccessful following years of litigation.
In 1967, as resistance to aggressive apartheid policies grew, and the South African government doubled down on aims of segregated living and racially discriminatory policies, the international campaign against apartheid grew stronger, and the United Nations stepped in.
The airstrikes also struck near Makhmour refugee camp, which hosts thousands of Turkish Kurd refugees who fled the conflict in the 1990s, as well as Yezidi villages in Sinjar.
It happened by the order of the President and with the approval of the Supreme Administrative Council, and by merger of the two Vice-Presidencies for Strategic Planning and Supervision, and Management and Human Capital Development.
It served as Mohammad Reza Shah's primary residence from 1938 until 1969, when the Imperial Court moved into the Niavaran Palace complex in northern Tehran.
Two years later, as Mousavi became prime minister, Aghazadeh was made state minister for executive affairs, a post attached to the prime minister's office.
The residents of Tabriz were exhausted from the siege, which brought them suffering without delivering the promised results.
The 16th Armoured Division of Qazvin is an armoured division of the Iranian Army, the Artesh, first formed during the reign of the Shah.
The Commission on Narcotic Drugs has power to decide whether to control a precursor substance, and which Table to place it in.
See also List of airlines of Iran Iran Aviation Industries Organization Islamic Republic of Iran Armed Forces Islamic Republic of Iran Air Force List of aircraft of the Iranian Air Force Defense industry of Iran List of equipment of the Iranian Army References External links Official Website
Later life and death Following the dismissal of Banisadr from the presidency and the armed rebellion of the Mojahedin-e-Khalq against the government, Tehrani was detained for a period in 1981.
A founding member of the Freedom Movement of Iran, he has been described as a representative of the tendency of many "Shia clerics to blend Shia with Marxist ideals in order to compete with leftist movements for youthful supporters" during the 1960s and 1970s.
On February 3, 2013, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad played a videotape in the Iranian parliament that tied the heads of two branches of the government, the legislative and judiciary, to a documented financial corruption case related to the Larijani brothers.
As part of the Iranian Economic Reform Plan, the government proposed income tax increases on traders in gold, steel, fabrics and other sectors, prompting work stoppages by merchants.
However, the Iranian government is widely believed to have ordered the assassination, as it had many similarities with other assassinations and assassination attempts on eastern Kurdish dissidents around the world at this time.
Personal life Sadighi was married to Farahangiz Meftah with whom he had two daughters (Afarin and Nikou Sadighi) and a son (Hossein Sadighi).
Mesdaghi asks, "If the matter goes back to before this date, the security authorities should answer the question why Shahriari was not protected.
Many of the office's works have been met with public acclaim and have been republished over the years.
He was also involved in the construction and operation of the Alborz Tunnel and other return routes within the same freeway section.
He has contracted to manufacture 84 guns to be delivered in six months to the royal court." It was thought that the imperial powers of the West—Russia in the North and the British to the South—could be held at bay by the adoption of European education and military technology.
After the revolution, he was chosen by Ruhollah Khomeini to represent him in Semnan province, as well as leading the prayers in Semnan.
The next stage is to provide information in which the data stored in the databases is presented as standard.
Rasouli formerly served as Mohammad-Reza Aref spokesman and senior adviser in 2013 and is a member of the 'Reformists' Supreme Council for Policymaking'.
When Khomeini appointed Khamenei as the Tehran's Friday prayer Imam, Tehrani condemned this decision.
Holocaust In September 2010, he was quoted by the Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA) as saying, "The Holocaust is nothing but superstition, but Zionists say that people of the world should be forced to accept this.
He has been credited with pioneering the policy of "negative equilibrium," (giving concessions to neither Britain nor Russia) that was to later prove influential in Iranian foreign affairs.
Isa Kalantari (Persian: عیسی کلانتری, born 1952 in Marand, East Azerbaijan) is an Iranian politician and former vice president, former head of Urmia Lake Restoration Program, and the former head of Department of Environment, serving from 2017 to 2021.
"A Soviet View on the Assassination of the Iranian Prime Minister, Haj ʻAli Razmara, in the Context of the Early Years of the Cold War".
Colonel Liakhov and his forces served the Shah until July 1909, when the Shah abdicated and fled to Russia, resulting in the surrender of Liakhov and the Persian Cossack Brigade.
Mahmud Badr, ?-1945 Abdolhossein Hazhir, 1945 Morteza-Qoli Bayat, 1945–1946 Abolqasem Najm, 1945–1946 Abdolhossein Hazhir, 1946 Morteza-Qoli Bayat, 1946-?
He served as the minister of health in the Iran's interim government, making him Iran's first minister of health after the Iranian Revolution of 1979.
The foreign participating countries in 2005 included Germany, Australia, France, United Kingdom, Italy, The Netherlands, Russia, Ukraine, Switzerland, Sweden, Belgium, Malaysia, and United Arab Emirates.
Cultural objects that form an integral part of an identified monument or archaeological site, or which belong to a public collection are not subject to time limitation other than a period of three years (Art.
In the Davis Cup, the South Africa team was ejected from the 1970 edition, in part thanks to campaigning by Ashe, and was banned indefinitely.
With the establishment of the 44th Qamar-e Bani-Hashem Brigade, forces from Kohgiluyeh and Boyer-Ahmad province and Isfahan province also left the Najaf Division.
IRIB Nasim (Persian: شبكۀ نسیم, romanized: Shæbækeh-ye Næsîm), is an Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting television channel, broadcast worldwide.
He is the second minister to be impeached by the Parliament after Ali Kordan who was impeached in 2008.
General Provost of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (Persian: دژبان کل سپاه پاسداران انقلاب اسلامی) is the provost and military police with an authority within all military branches of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and Basij militia.
On May 4, 1940, the first radio transmitter in Iran was opened at the wireless location on the old road of Shemiran (now the Ministry of Communications).
In Islamic jurisprudence (fiqh) and under the Islamic Penal Code of Iran, musaheqeh refers to a situation in which an adult, mentally competent, and consenting woman brings her genitalia into contact with the genitalia of another woman.
Further sanctions were issued against 13 Iranian individuals and one entity for the manufacture and supply of drones to Russia in its war against Ukraine.
The war ended with the Treaty of Golestan in 1813, in which the Iranians agreed to cede all of their Caucasian territory with the exception of Erivan and Nakhichevan.
Ruhollah Khomeini's letter to Mikhail Gorbachev Seyyed Ali Khamenei bibliography Ayatollah Khamenei's letter to students at U.S.
Tasnim publishes all content on its website under the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International license.
See also Awards and decorations of the Islamic Republic of Iran Armed Forces Order of Zolfaghar Order of Fath Order of Nasr == References ==
In unintentional cases, the blood money can be paid over a period of 1–3 years, it the person fails to generate the money, they will go to debtor's prison until it is paid.
In modern times, the original text written by Mirza Naqi used to be in the possession of Hajj Hoseyn Agha Nakhjevani, who, in view of its contents and with the original title unknown, gave it the name Alqāb va Mavājeb-e Dowreh-ye Salātin-e Safaviyeh, and later donated it to the library of Tabriz.
Within the injured women, one woman suffered a miscarriage due to the injuries she suffered from the attack.
Impeachment On 1 February 2011, 147 out of 234 Members of Parliament gave a vote of no confidence to Behbahani and impeached him for falsely claiming to hold a doctoral degree.
Created by Alibeman Eghbali Zarch, former Iranian Ambassador to Albania, the Iran Friendship Association has strong ties to the Albania Institute of Islamic Thought and Culture.
Parviz Fattah Gharabaghi (Persian: پرویز فتاح قره‌باغی) is an Iranian conservative politician and former member of the Revolutionary Guard.
In 2016, the KCHQ was separated from the General Staff as a standing independent command responsible for operational command and control (C2); previously, the KCHQ would only be stood up in wartime.
As a result, the site was designed so that it is possible to enter, edit and even manage information on the site without specifying the time and place on the Internet.
According to the law enacted by the Iranian Parliament, the society is run by a chairman appointed by the President of Iran.
Members of AAH, as part of PMF, receive Iraqi government salaries after the PMF units were officially integrated into Iraqi security forces in 2018.
Background In the months preceding the attack, some attacks were carried out by Iraqi Kurdish rebels on the borders of the Islamic Republic of Iran in order to carry out acts of sabotage in the provinces such as West Azerbaijan province, Kermanshah and Kurdistan.
The clergyman, the member of the Central Council, in addition to his duties as a member of the council, will be responsible for complying with the foundation's activities in accordance with Islamic law.
General Oveissi married Sharareh Oveissi with whom he had two children, Hossein and Shahryar Oveissi.
Vigilantes/plainclothesmen are often members of Iranian "pressure groups" (guruh-i fishar) such as the Ansar-e Hezbollah (the "semi-official quasi-clandestine organization of a paramilitary character that performs vigilante duties").
See also Iranian Airports Holding Company Islamic Republic of Iran Air Force List of airlines of Iran List of airports in Iran List of the busiest airports in Iran Ministry of Roads & Urban Development References External links Official website (in English) Official website (in Persian)
When security forces learned of the statement, they issued "heavy and blatant" threats to the leaders of the alliance as well as warnings of widespread arrests, and the statement was withdrawn.
Assist in conducting Iranian studies and prepare a research plan on issues related to Iranian-Islamic civilization and publish it for use by researchers and scientific institutes inside and outside the country.
The Mykonos verdict of 1 April 1997 put the responsibility on the Iranian government of the time for the murders in Berlin and in Vienna.
Mohammad Sa'ed Maraghei (Persian: محمد ساعد مراغه‌ای; 28 April 1881 – 1 November 1973) was the 23rd Prime Minister of Iran, serving from April to November 1944 and again from 1948 to 1950.
The center was renamed Center for Women and Family Affairs, as opposed to Center for Women's Participation as it was called under Khatami.
He was a founding editor of the Journal of International Communication and Journal of Intercultural Communication & Interactions Research.
He retained his post in the next cabinet led by Hassan Ali Mansur from 7 March 1964 and also, in the cabinet of Amir Abbas Hoveida from January 1965.
Early life and education Behbahani held a BS in civil engineering from Iran University of Science and Technology and a M.S.
The Iran Freedom Congress, previously known as the Dialogue for Iran, is a political and civic initiative uniting Iranian opposition key, activists, professional and political figures to discuss the future governance and political transition of Iran.
On 10 December 2020, Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan was attending the Baku Victory Parade in the Republic of Azerbaijan.
He is a founding member of Iranian Association of Surgeons and its current president, and president of the Iranian Society for Organ Transplantation.
New Development Bank The New Development Bank (NDB), formally referred to as the BRICS Development Bank, is a multilateral development bank operated by the five BRICS states.
The Chief Justice of Iran can delegate financial and management of the judiciary as well as the hiring of non-Judges to the Minister of Justice.
Irsan was held without bail in the Joe Corley Detention Facility/Joe Corley Processing Center, a private correctional facility in Conroe, Texas, operated by the GEO Group which, in addition to housing immigration prisoners, acts as a detention center for the U.S.
On 17 January, The Sunday Times reported that a network of Iranian doctors estimated between 16,500 and 18,000 deaths and hundreds of thousands of injuries; one doctor quoted in the report described the killings as genocide.
Mohammadkhani was in Germany when the killing happened, but it emerged later that he was "temporarily married" to Jahed, a practice allowed under Shia Islam.
Despite Iran being the second largest producer of natural gas, a deal was signed between the two state companies to import Azeri gas to Iran.
1970s procurement 1982–89: Two ministries The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps had between 1982 and 1989 its own dedicated defence ministry, mirroring the existing ministry of defence which solely supplied the Islamic Republic of Iran Army during this period.
Ertebatat Ejtemai Dar Iran: As Mashroteh Ta Enghelabe Islami (Social Communication in Iran: From the Constitutional Movement to the Islamic Revolution).
On February 3, 2025, IDF opened fire on an armed group of men in Golan Heights, no injuries from IDF were reported.
The Sejil is a two-stage, solid-propellant, surface-to-surface missile (SSM) produced by Iran with a reported 1,930 km (1,200 mi) range.
Sheikh Abbas Ali Akhtari (Persian: شیخ عباسعلی اختری; 7 December 1939 – 31 October 2022) was an Iranian Ayatollah.
Persian politicians continued insisting, but when the Ottomans finally agreed, 4 December 1846, it was found he had died a few days before, and was accounted to be the first Bábi martyr by Bábis and Baháʼís.
The journal quotes an Iranian college student as saying, "most of the girls arrested are raped in jail.
In Tehran, under his direction, the governor Ala al-Dowleh applied rigorous enforcement against market irregularities, including public punishments for alleged profiteering, to stabilize prices and supply chains during a time of scarcity.
Since the Iranian Constitutional Revolution, the palace has been used as the provincial governorship office (Persian: کاخ استانداری).
A review of the prosecutor's orders in various provinces shows that the ban will apply to public roads, parks and vehicles.
Kay (meaning "king") was a ruling title used in Iranian mythology by the Kayanians of the Avesta, later to be adopted by the Kushano-Sasanians, followed by the Sasanian monarchs of Iran.
He is also the cousin of Mohammad Sadeq Rouhani and Seyed Mohammad Hosseini Rohani, both of whom are Marja', otherwise known as Grand Ayatollah.
A military spokesman reportedly apologized to the family for the small number of officials in attendance, explaining that the current political turmoil in the wake of the CIA-engineered coup d’état made their attendance difficult.
To make plans for reaching the goals of the 2025 Vision plan and the country's Comprehensive Plan for Scientific Development.
the treasurer, was among the Georgians who were brought to Iran during the Russo-Persian wars at the time of Fath-Ali Shah, converted to Islam, and settled in Tehran.
These agreements have the potential to significantly boost trade, potentially reaching an estimated trade value of around $5 billion per year.
He also served in the cabinet of Prime Minister Asadollah Alam between February 1963 and March 1964.
In drug cases, a record of the amount of drugs a person is caught with is kept, so that the information is available in the event of a later arrest.
Units of the Hakkari Mountain and Commando Brigade and 1st Commando Brigade were airlifted across the Iraq–Turkey border.
The Sheibani Network, via old Badr smuggling routes trafficked explosively formed penetrators (EFPs), improvised explosive devices (IEDs), 107mm rockets, 122mm rockets, Katyusha rockets, and a variety of mortars into Iraq.
The organisation has received arms from Iran via Sudan that acted as "transshipment point" for their circulation, and Eritrea that allowed Iranian navy use of its ports.
IRIB World Service, also known as Voice of Islamic Republic of Iran, is the official international broadcasting radio network of Iran.
See also Economy of Iran Cabinet of Iran Government of Iran Iran and WTO References External links Official Website Iran Code portal (e-commerce and tax collection; affiliated to the MoC)
The gendarmes also persecuted and captured all clan members of Abba Khan (who was shot by Boris Möller).
Ramin praised Ahmadinejad for having voiced his doubts over the Holocaust and the need for relocating the Jews to Europe if Europeans really did the massacre during the Second World War.
1806); an importer-exporter and merchant based in Saraye Hajeb-o-Dowleh in Tehran Grand Bazaar; grandfather and great-grandfather of the Persian poets, Tehranian and Bahar, respectively; Second wife, Princess Pasha Khanum (born: c.
When the Soviets violated the terms of the Tripartite Pact which called for all foreign military forces to be withdrawn from Iranian territory by 2 March 1946, it drew a strong rebuke from the Parliamentary Whip, Mohammed Mossadegh.
Hamid Fazeli (also known as Mohsen Kafi) is the current head of Unit 340 of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) Quds Force and was the fifth president of the Iranian Space Agency (ISA) to have been appointed since its establishment.
International concern has also grown after reports that foreign partners and additional defensive systems were deployed to help protect U.S.
International Commission of Jurists (ICJ) condemned the killings and called for an independent investigation into the events.
Iran, in turn, designated the militaries of all European Union member states as terrorist organisations.
Career Administration of Iraq under al-Hajjaj During the governorship of al-Hajjaj ibn Yusuf over Iraq, Salih entered the dīwān (bureaucratic administration) of Basra under the mentorship of the Persian Zoroastrian administrator Zadhanfarrukh.
Sales began with a delivery of Soviet artillery ammunition in October 1980 after the Iran–Iraq War had begun in September.
Turkey officially denies the accusation that it supported the Azerbaijani military during the conflict.
Some weblog reports of the evening described the general atmosphere of the event as similar to a concert, and some reported that Khatami was treated like a pop star among the youth and teenagers in attendance during the ceremony.
On June 23, 2007, he was arrested for accusations of acting against national security, insulting the president and collecting information with the intention of delivering it to foreign hands.
The law shall specify the body responsible for determining such deviation and how the councils (shuras) shall be dissolved and reconstituted.
The order called for the implementation of Article 49 of Constitution of Iran under which the government had the right to confiscate all wealth accumulated through illegal means, restore it to its "legitimate owners"; and if those owners could not be identified, entrust it "to the public treasury".
He was led away by another soldier but Horsfall, aware of the change of situation, told his colleague to "put him down", i.e.
On 10 January 2026, a demonstrator part of a solidarity protest associated with the 2025–2026 Iranian uprising tore down the embassy's flag of the Islamic republic and replaced it with the Lion and Sun flag.
Morteza Bank (Persian: مرتضی بانک; born 1955) is an Iranian politician who currently serves as deputy to Chief of Staff of the President of Iran.
Life Meshkini was an Iranian Azerbaijani born in a village near Meshkin Shahr and the Sabalan mountain.
See also Education in Iran Student Organization of Iran Farhangian University Ali Asghar Fani Adib Astronomy Teaching Centre Mohammad Bathaei Yousef Nouri References External links Webpage of the Ministry of Education
The TAR was seen as a way to accommodate the huge increases in international trade between Eurasian nations and facilitate the increased movements of goods between countries.
In response, the Free Palestine Movement declared that these people would have to account for their actions, and that it would try to prevent further burnings.
their revenue was sent to the imperial treasury, and the officials and soldiers were paid salaries from it.
Firouz’s efforts were supported by Prince Abdolreza Pahlavi, the brother of Mohammad Reza Shah and head of the Hunting Club, whose political influence and interest in wildlife conservation were instrumental in securing royal support for the creation of the Department.
Prior to the 2024 presidential election, he enrolled himself in two previous elections, the 2013 election, in which he withdrew, and the 2021 election, in which he was rejected from running.
Following the regime change in Iran in 1979, Amir-Alai was appointed ambassador of Iran to France, but he resigned from the post in 1980 due to his conflict with the foreign minister, Sadegh Ghotbzadeh.
In addition, the Convention requires the parties to provide mutual legal assistance to one another upon request, for purposes of searches, seizures, service of judicial documents, and so on.
Technology At the beginning of its establishment, Radio Tehran had two transmitters, one for medium wave and the other for short wave.
The document does not say anything about recognizing a right to enrich uranium." More generally, a senior U.S.
He was assassinated by 26-year-old Khalil Tahmassebi of the Fadayan-e Islam organization outside the Shah Mosque in Tehran at the age of 49.
His tenure was characterized by a strongly conservative Islamist direction, aiming to stave off the "cultural onslaught" of Western culture and promote pious Islamic culture in its place, including through the use of repressive measures.
In 1959 he was appointed minister of labor to the cabinet of Prime Minister Manouchehr Eghbal, replacing Agha Khan Bakhtiar in the post.
A journalist from the Norwegian public broadcaster NRK who was present stated he witnessed a man arrive with a bag, then pick up a weapon and start shooting.
LMOs intended for food or feed, or for processing LMOs intended for direct use as food or feed, or processing (LMOs-FFP) represent a large category of agricultural commodities.
During the reign of Naser al-Din Shah Qajar, he became the first Iranian captain of the Persepolis Battleship in Bushehr that Iran had recently purchased from Germany.
Demonstrations spread to additional cities, including Kermanshah, Shiraz, Yazd, and parts of Tehran such as Shadabad and Shush.
In December 1996, the Grey Wolves attacked left-wing students and teachers at Istanbul University, with the alleged approval of the police.
1362–1389) gave the title to Lala Shahin Pasha as a reward for his capture of Adrianople (modern Edirne) in the 1360s.
Finally, in 1974, law of establishing the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance was approved by the National Consultative Assembly with 6 articles.
Morteza Gholi Bayat (Persian: مرتضی‌قلی بیات; Mortezā Qoli Bayāt, aka Sahām al-Soltān, 1890–10 May 1958) was a Prime Minister of Iran.
Although Iran was economically quite significant to Brazil during the presidency of Jair Bolsonaro, since 2019 ties with Iran have diminished.
These individuals received military training in Iran under the guise of religious education and a list of officials against whom attacks were to be targeted.
In 2016, Mullah Taha an Iranian Shia gay cleric was forced to flee Iran by the Iranian authorities after conducting same-sex marriages.
Early life and military career Fallahzadeh was born in 1962 or 1963 in Abarkuh, in Yazd Province, Iran.
In recent years, the DOE has emphasized climate change adaptation, dust storm mitigation, water resource protection, and community participation in conservation.
World stockpile of chemical weapons A total of 72,304 metric tonnes of chemical agent, and 97 production facilities have been declared to OPCW.
Amnesty International called on international organizations to demand that Iran's authorities stop the executions, including Soltani's case.
The coalition supported one another in many battles in the Syrian civil war, such as in Hama Governorate, Palmyra, Aleppo and Idlib Governorate.
Critics further cited accusations of corruption and sanctions-evasion networks linked to his family.
It is waging a guerrilla campaign against the Syrian Democratic Forces, the armed forces of the multi-ethnic, Kurdish-led polity known as the Autonomous Administration of North and East Syria, as well as the United States.
He was taken to the Evin prison and soon taken back to his printing house in order to lure other political activists.
On 4 September, Parliament of Iran approved 18 of the 21 candidates and rejected three of them, including two women.
The Iran Meteorological Organization, also called the Met Department, is an agency of the Ministry of Roads and Urban Development of the Government of Iran.
Khamenei was described as having a close relationship with him, calling Soleimani a "living martyr" and helping him financially.
It contains around 3 million digital information sources, including manuscripts, lithographic prints, movable type prints, historic documents, image sources, maps, and treatises.
However Pakistani Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Tasnim Aslam denied any link between the fence and the bomb blast, saying that Iran was not blaming these incidents on Pakistan.
The Portuguese had already attempted to kill English ambassador Robert Sherley, by blowing up his house in 1612.
Bastámí accepted the Báb as the Mahdi on their first meeting and was appointed by him to the position of one of eighteen Letters of the Living and identified as the allegorical return of the Shia Imam 'Ali.
He was sometimes described as taking a hardline approach regarding relations to the West, but as a pragmatist regarding internal affairs.
It is however widely believed the organization was still active as a militia within the security forces and it had been accused of running a secret prison and sectarian killings during the Iraqi Civil War.
It has been reported that Iran is one of the five countries that has a cyber-army capable of conducting cyber-warfare operations.
The first Iranian presidential election was held on January 25, 1980 and resulted in the election of Abolhassan Banisadr with 76% of the votes.
Treasury Department sanctioned Jannati for "preventing free and fair elections in Iran." Personal life Jannati's wife was Sediqeh Mazaheri, with whom he had four sons.
State-run (non-medical) universities of Iran are under the direct supervision of Iran's Ministry of Science, Research and Technology.
After distancing himself from the revolutionary government, Dr Sami remained one of the few active opposition leaders in Iran, openly criticizing the Islamic Republic government.
During the 2022-2023 Mahsa Amini protests NOPO similarly used "excessive violence and lethal force against unarmed protestors, including women and children", again by firing automatic weapons at them.
The main objective of its establishment is to ensure food security in the country through procuring the basic commodities such as wheat, rice, raw sugar, raw oil, milk in powder, fertilizer, required by the public such as essential foodstuffs from domestic and foreign sources.
Other memoirs have been also published on Iran's nuclear case including by Mohamed ElBaradei (former Director-General of IAEA), Joschka Fischer (former German foreign minister), Jack Straw (former British foreign secretary), and Hossein Mousavian (a former member of Iran's nuclear negotiating team).
On the day the Congress resolution was approved (February 7), the Shah promised to restore the "Imperial Inspectorate Organization" in the near future and grant it broader powers for investigation and even "providing prompt solutions" to public complaints and problems.
Around 4000 prisoners were brought before a three-member body known as the 'Death Commission', which included the current Minister of Justice under President Hassan Rouhani and the former Minister of the Interior under President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, Mostafa Pourmohammadi.
The Noor satellite program is a unique development for Iran as it was the first satellite to be developed and launched by the IRGC instead of the Iranian Space Agency.
On Thursday, November 29, 2018, on the twenty-fifth day of the strike, security agents arrested Ali Nejati, a member of the Haft Tappeh Sugarcane Workers' Union, at his home without a warrant for his arrest.
After the election of Ahmadinejad, Meshkini spoke at a Friday prayer in Ardebil saying: "As the Supreme Leader of The Assembly of Experts of the Islamic Republic of Iran, it gives me great pleasure to announce that Dr.
History As the crime of apartheid grew more visible, a need to address South Africa's apartheid issues rose in the 1950s-60's.
The structure and body of this hovercraft are constructed using both metal and non-metallic composite materials.
He assumed office after the resignation of Mahmoud Goudarzi and holds it until approval of the new minister.
Article 6: Government and non-governmental companies and institutions should be in contact with the Geological Survey and Mineral Exploration of Iran (GSI) to provide and coordinate similar tasks such as preparing maps or geological reports of areas from all over the country.
He was then secured safe passage to England where he worked with Edward Granville Browne to lobby the parliament for support of the constitutionalist movement.
However, the birth year indicated there (1858) does not agree with his WorldCat entry and with his VIAF entry, both of which give 1857.
He used Iran's development to establish himself as a strongman across the Middle East and the Persian Gulf and create an oil oligarchy controlling the price of oil.
The fund is obliged to pay victims of pollution when damages exceed the shipowner's liability, when there is no liable shipowner, or when the shipowner is unable to pay its liability.
The organic drug-making states that had suffered economically from the Single Convention's restrictions on cannabis, coca, and opium fought for tough regulations on synthetic drugs.
Manufactured with more than 14,000 parts, it is capable of flight at 50,000 feet and can be mounted on planes with a maximum takeoff weight of ten tons.
In 2025, after the fall of the Assad regime, the group published a video showing its establishment against the Military Operations Command and the Syrian Transitional Government which was spread by the Syrian Popular Resistance.
TCI has utilized equipment and services such as digital switching centers, optical fiber cables, mobile phones, data networks, satellite services, and telephone special services.
Accompanied by the politicised jubilee campaign and to a great extent thanks to this campaign a massive translation, scientific-research and publishing works of political and cultural importance were launched and enhanced in scale.
On January 9, the group started calling themselves Tahrir al-Janoub (JTJ), or the Southern Liberation Front (SLF).
See also Mohammad Khatami Mohsen Kadivar List of ayatollahs List of members in the First Term of the Council of Experts == References ==
He was once arrested by the Revolutionary Guards in March 1981 for the publications of his publishing house (which published political and non-political materials).
In October 2025, the Mossad named Sardar Amar as the man in the IRGC causing antisemitic attacks across the world, including Australia.
After the controversial election of Mahmoud Ahmedinejad in 2009, NOPO played a major role in the post-election forceful crackdown of the resulting nation-wide protests.
Location The Office of the Supreme Leader was built on the grounds of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi's Ekhtesassi Palace, which served as Ali Khamenei's residence and office during his tenure as President of the Islamic Republic from 1981 to 1989.
References External links Ministry of Foreign Affairs latest news Iran defames Holocaust suffering, from the Jewish Telegraphic Agency
On 15 January, the Iranian judiciary dismissed foreign media reports of Soltani's impending execution as a "fabrication".
To this end, he was more emphatically known as the Shāhanshāh (شاهنشاه, šāhanšāh, 'king of kings' [ˌʃaːhanˈʃaːɦ]) since the Achaemenid dynasty.
Export Development Bank of Iran (EDBI; Persian: بانک توسعه صادرات ايران, Bank Tuse'h-e Sadârat-e Iran) is Iran's export-import bank.
The book focuses on Iran's nuclear program and challenges to it by Western countries, especially the United States and three European countries of France, Germany and the United Kingdom.
On 6 January 2026, it was reported that approximately 800 members of Iraqi militia groups, including Kata'ib Hezbollah, Harakat al-Nujaba, Sayyid al-Shuhada, and the Badr Organisation had been sent to Iran.
As of the 2020s, there has also been a growing focus on environmental justice, the role of local communities, and integrating traditional ecological knowledge into national environmental strategies.
Results By city Reactions Domestic Ayatollah Kashani said taking part in such a referendum is haraam (religiously prohibited).
In the same restaurant a meeting was scheduled of Ingvar Carlsson, a two-term Prime Minister of Sweden and leader of the Swedish Social Democratic Party, Mona Sahlin, the secretary of the Swedish Social Democratic Party and Pierre Schori, the former Swedish State Secretary for Foreign Affairs.
International Many leaders of other countries were shocked, and gave condolences; some, such as French President Emmanuel Macron, encouraged people to stand together.
Houshang Montazeralzohour (Persian: هوشنگ منتظرالظهور, 22 May 1951 – 3 October 1981) was an Iranian Greco-Roman wrestler who competed in the 1976 Summer Olympics.
Reshuffles In Summer 1983 two pro-market ministers, Asgaroladi and Tavakoli, left the cabinet following months of disagreements behind the scenes.
He served as minister of Health and Medical Education from 3 January 2019 to 25 August 2021, where he replaced Hassan Ghazizadeh Hashemi.
References and notes See also Iranian Criminal Code List of ayatollahs List of members in the First Term of the Council of Experts List of members in the Second Term of the Council of Experts List of members in the Third Term of the Council of Experts
At other times the Iranian government has advocated a "resistance economy" in response to sanctions, such as using more oil internally as export markets dry up and import substitution industrialization of Iran.
Rio de Janeiro Mayor, Eduardo Paes, also canceled the inauguration of a replica of the famed Persepolis columns offered by Iran.
It was elected by universal suffrage, excluding the armed forces and convicted criminals but after 1963 including women, who could both vote and be elected.
He was also named deputy commander of the IRGC's construction body, Khatam al-Anbiya Construction Headquarters.
In 1882, Mirza Yusuf noticed the rise to power of Hossein Gholi Khan Ilkhani, a Bakhtiari khan who had recently entered into an alliance with Mass'oud Mirza Zell-e Soltan, and on his orders he was poisoned with Qajar coffee.
To cover the expenses of the transition, Sulayman requested and received a year's worth of the revenues of Jund al-Urdunn, totaling some 180,000 gold dinars.
During the protests in the aftermath of her death hundreds were killed, thousands were arrested, four young men were hanged and more the a dozen others were sentenced to death.
2021 Political Prisoners' Hunger Strike On 19 March 2021, political prisoners at Adelabad, along with inmates in Evin Prison and Greater Tehran Central Prison, staged a three-day hunger strike in protest against injustice and in solidarity with impoverished Iranians.
The proposal is rejected by Iran as a violation of the Paris Agreement and Iran's Non-Proliferation Treaty rights.
Following this, the Intergovernmental Forum on Chemical Safety (IFCS) and the International Programme on Chemical Safety (IPCS) prepared an assessment of the 12 worst offenders, known as the dirty dozen.
Mohammad-Reza Bahonar (Persian: محمدرضا باهنر, born 2 February 1952) is an Iranian principlist politician who was member of the Parliament of Iran for 28 years.
The council named Ali Khamenei as Khomeini's successor as Supreme Leader of Iran and drew up several amendments to the original constitution.
Hussein Kuli Khan Nawab (Persian: حسینقلی خان نواب) (1864 – February 1946), also known as Sadr es-Saltaneh, was a Persian foreign minister and ambassador.
The following individuals from the members of the Diagnostic Assembly were part of the commission for compiling the vision document: Mohsen Rezaei, Zanganeh, Habibollah Asgar Oladi, Nabavi, Iravani, Mohammad Hashemi, Ali Akbar Velayati, Majid Ansari and Hossein Mozaffar.
Fereidon Hasanvand" فریدون حسنوند" is a former Iranian MP from Andimeshk, Khuzestan Province and the former governor of Bushehr Province.
Justice minister's selection According to Article 130 of the Constitution, the chief justice nominates some candidates for serving as Justice Minister and then the president selects one of them.
Promoting a better understanding of the legal, political and technical issues revolving around elections, globally and at country level, is the project’s ultimate goal.
The squadron’s reconnaissance operations deep into Iraqi territory correctly predicted the impending Iraqi invasion of Iran and reported it to the authorities of the Islamic Republic, although the warning was ignored.
Early life Set was born to a family that was among the well-known Armenian and Georgian families brought to Iran during the reign of Agha Muhammad Khan Qajar, and dispersed throughout Iran for political reasons.
Implementation The key objectives of the accords surrounded the return of hostages to the US and the return of assets to Iran, restoring order to pre-Tehran crisis status.
To meet this benchmark, global emissions must peak by 2025, and although emissions have peaked in some countries, global emissions have not.
Abdolhossein Hazhir (Persian: عبدالحسین هژیر‎; 4 June 1902 – 5 November 1949) was an Iranian politician who served as the Prime Minister of Iran under Mohammad Reza Pahlavi in 1948, having been a minister 10 times.
Initial developments in military technology were carried out with the support of China, North Korea and Russia to lay the foundations for future industries.
There were 91 votes in favor, four against (Portugal, South Africa, the United Kingdom, and the United States), and 26 abstentions.
Positions The council rejects and condemns appointment of Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Iran by United Nations and strongly opposes the western countries' positions about current human rights situation in Iran.
Iran v proshlom i nastoyashchem: puti i formy revolyutsionnogo protsessa [Iran in the Past and Present: Paths and Forms of the Revolutionary Process] (in Russian).
Dossa was criticized in Canadian media, by university president Sean Riley, and by 105 professors at his university for his attendance at Tehran's Holocaust conference.
History Albania and Iran are both Indo-European countries with various cultural similarities, whose cultural relations date back to the ancient Illyrian and Iranian peoples.
In August 2020, the Russian International Affairs Council, a government think tank, classified the Grey Wolves as an extremist organization.
The Abu Mahdi missile can be launched by diverse types of platforms, including sea, land and air launchers.
The resolution reminded all Member States to respect the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, which urged countries to respect the inviolability of diplomatic personnel and the premises of their diplomatic missions.
In this capacity, the secretary plays a significant role in Iran's national security doctrine and implementing decisions approved by the council and the Supreme Leader.
Later, after the announcement of the election results in March 2016, he explained the reasons for his resignation, stating, "Unfortunately, the qualification review process is not a pleasant memory for me.
The Monetary and Banking Research Institute (MBRI) (formerly known as Monetary and Banking Research Academy (MBRA)) is the research arm of the Central Bank of Iran.
I think we have to give this comprehensive plan a chance." Canada: Foreign Minister Rob Nicholson stated at the time of the announcement: "We appreciate the efforts of the P5+1 to reach an agreement.
Career As a teenager, Mokhber helped lay the groundwork for the Iranian Revolution in his home city of Dezful by joining the Mansurun Group, a guerrilla organization which worked to combat the Pahlavi regime.
Since 1989, Ali Khamenei has ruled Iran as Supreme Leader, making him the second-longest serving head of state in the Middle East (after Oman's Sultan Qaboos), as well as the second-longest serving Iranian leader of the last century, after Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi.
In the same year, a project to enhance the capabilities of radar was started by SAIRAN and Isfahan University of Technology.
Five or more of them, in accordance with the requirements of the time, are appointed by the members of the National Assembly unanimously or by sortition.
Following the election of South Africa's National Party in 1948 came a swell of prejudicial and racially charged policies.
See also Jamaran Hussainiya – Ruhollah Khomeini's residency in Jamaran – similar compound of the previous supreme leader References Sources External links Official website
In autumn the Anthology of Azerbaijani Poetry was published, the plans for the release of which had been announced earlier.
Merge The division was merged with the Basij of Kerman Province to form the Sarallah Corps of Kerman Province during the rearrangement of the IRGC units in 2008.
Iran's missile forces are under the command of the Revolutionary Guards, under the army's authority.
However, in this operation Iranian vessels were engaged with three Iraqi Osa-class missile boats, that fired Styx missiles at them and drew back with maximum speed.
According to Reuters, a "senior Iranian official" responded affirmatively, noting that the offer was made by the US and mediated by Qatar.
According to the group, they changed their name “due to the existence of multiple fronts with the same name”.
His father, Ayatollah Mohammad Ibrahim al-Arafi, was said to be a close friend of Ruhollah Khomeini; however, some analysts say that this might be an exaggeration.
Following the Iranian Revolution, he left Iran to work for the United Nations in the 1980s and 1990s before retiring to Switzerland where he writes and consults.
The convention covers leakage of that oil, and requires signatories to the convention to have their ships appropriately insured against such leakages.
In 1980, Oveissi foresaw weaknesses in the defence strategy of Iran, a fact that was warmly welcomed by Saddam.
He was quoted as saying of the 2009 Iranian election protests that the "demonstrators were treading the path of the world's arrogance" and that "The regime must confront them".
Leaders such as Ali ibn Isa ibn Mahan and members of the Harbiyya faction played key roles in administration and military affairs.
The Government of Mohammad-Javad Bahonar was the second government of Iran after the Iranian Revolution.
Mohammad Reza Fallahzadeh (Persian: محمدرضا فلاح‌زاده) is an Iranian senior military officer and politician who is deputy commander of Quds Force of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) since April 2021.
The lack of adequately trained or trainable Iranian manpower, combined with competition for technical talent from the civilian sector, created a bottleneck for effective use and maintenance of the advanced systems.
A doctor at the Legal Medicine Organization stated that less than half of those who had applied between 1987 and 2004 had been given authorisation for GRS.
The Secretariat may furthermore conduct "investigations of alleged use" of chemical weapons and give assistance after use of chemical weapons.
In 2026, a lower court handed down a verdict, in regard to the trial against an alleged facilitator, Arfan Bhatti; he will be imprisoned for at least 30 years; however, he has appealed the case.
The ministry resulted from the merger of the Ministry of Industries and Mines and Ministry of Commerce.
Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini ordered an election for the Assembly of Experts, the body tasked with writing the constitution.
The vessels involved were the Front Eagle, carrying crude oil from Iraq to China, and the Adalynn, which was unladen and en route to the Suez Canal.
The organizers gave Mina Ahadi of the WCP fifteen minutes to talk at the rostrum, but it soon became evident that they were interested only in disrupting the meeting.
17 January ISW recorded zero protests in the streets on 17 January amidst the ongoing enforced curfew.
This is a list of the presidents of the Islamic Republic of Iran since the establishment of that office in 1980.
His wife did not receive any news from him and after a few days, began to look for him and alerted the Austrian police.
Decline and fall of the Sasanian empire: the Sasanian-Parthian confederacy and the Arab conquest of Iran.
Currently, the average of 20% of government spending and 5% of GDP is allocated to the education sector, a rate that is subjectively higher than most other countries that are in the similar age bracket of Iran (around the age of 50 years).
Ali Razmara, also known as Haj Ali Razmara (Persian: حاجعلی رزم‌آرا, romanized: Hāj'ali Razm-ārā; 30 March 1901 – 7 March 1951), was an Iranian military officer and politician who served as the prime minister of Iran from 1950 to 1951.
According to the IRGC, the device detects COVID-19 using electromagnetic radiation emitted by the antenna.
Haj Mohammad Hassan Amin al-Zarb (1838–1898), titled Amin Dar-oz-zarb, custodian of the state mint under Naser al-Din Shah Qajar, was an Iranian self-made man who went on to become Iran's first major entrepreneur and the richest man in Iran.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Supreme National Security Council must report implementation of the agreement every six months to Majlis.
Its main purpose is to focus all matters relating to the collection, storage, management and sale of properties that by law are under the ownership, possession, custody or management of the government of Iran.
History In the US Central Intelligence Agency, there used to be a room called the Pars Room, where analysts and operations personnel related to Iran gathered in this room, which later became a wider regional department.
Most recently, the State of Palestine deposited its instrument of accession to the CWC on 17 May 2018.
The whole system, containing the antennas, setup instruments, processing, controlling and displaying units, communication devices and power generator are all installed on a trailer to achieve a very good mobility.
It was reported that he was killed by a hotel servant, but the Dubai Police stated that he had died after taking a large quantity of antidepressants.
The energy ministers of Iran after the 1979 Iranian revolution: See also Energy in Iran List of reservoirs and dams in Iran Water supply and sanitation in Iran List of power stations in Iran References External links Ministry of Energy News Agency
After serving one-third of the sentence, the convict can request suspension of imprisonment through the prosecutor or judge if the conditions for suspension are met.
According to an American think tank, Hezbollah used its ATGMs with "tactical skill" and few technical errors.
She is a founding member of the Union of Islamic Iran People Party and the party's secretary-general.
Born in Mahabad, West Azerbaijan, to an Iranian Azerbaijani and Iranian Kurdish family, Pezeshkian graduated from the Tabriz University of Medical Sciences with a degree in medicine and served as a doctor for Iranian soldiers in the Iran–Iraq War (1980–1988).
The Atomic Energy Organization of Iran (AEOI) is the main Iranian government agency responsible for operating nuclear energy and nuclear fuel cycle installations in Iran.
During the Pahlavi era in 1925, Reza Shah made it an exclusively military order and renamed it the Order of Zolfaghar after Zulfiqar, the two-pointed sword of Ali, the son-in-law of prophet Muhammad.
List of confirmed victories List of pilots References Notes Citations Sources Cooper, Tom; Bishop, Farzad (2004), Holmes, Tony; Hales-Dutton, Bruce (eds.), Iranian F-14 Tomcat Units in Combat, Osprey Combat Aircraft, vol.
The cabinet significantly decreased the annual financial aid given to mosques and religious organizations which had very negative effects on the relations between the state and religious establishment.
Jurgen Grassmann, the chief organizer of Berlin's Al-Quds Day March asked the demonstrators not to shout "Allahu Akbar".
Controversies According to Mohammad Ali Shabani of the Middle Eastern newspaper Amwaj, Vahidi is a known hardliner as the commander-in-chief of the IRGC compared to his predecessors, Mohammad Pakpour and Hossein Salami.
He continued in foreign affairs following the war by representing Iran at the San Francisco Conference in 1945, the gathering that established the United Nations, and at the first session of the General Assembly in 1946.
The Swedish government complied and started steadily calling their deployed officers back until none remained in 1916.
In 1954 Navab Safavi, founder of the Fadayan-e Islam, in a speech to the Muslim Brotherhood meeting in Egypt, declared that he himself had killed Razmara.
Death Oveissi was shot dead, along with his brother, Gholam Hossein, on 7 February 1984 in Paris, Rue de Passy.
List of controlled drug precursors Source: INCB Red List (14th Edition, January 2015) The list of 23 substances is identical to list of EU-controlled drug precursors, except for the different categorization and inclusion of stereoisomers in EU Category 1.
Foreign Minister Adel al-Jubeir asserted that the missile was supplied by Iran and launched by Hezbollah militants from territory held by Houthi rebels in Yemen.
On 2 April 2026, 18-year-old Iranian teenager Amirhossein Hatami (امیرحسین حاتمی; born 2007) was executed by hanging by the Islamic Republic of Iran.
A firman (Persian: فرمان, romanized: farmān; Turkish: ferman), at the constitutional level, was a royal mandate or decree issued by a sovereign in an Islamic state.
In addition, the Kennedy administration established a task force, the Iran Task Force, to support the cabinet of Amini which was regarded by the Shah as a move to reduce his power and authority.
IRGC Commander-in-Chief Hossein Salami stated that the device could be used for mass screening of people and scanning contaminated areas, claiming that its ability to specify which area is contaminated could minimize the amount of disinfectants being used in areas that are not contaminated.
"Modified jejunoileal bypass surgery with biliary diversion for morbid obesity and changes in liver histology during follow-up".
Russia has managed to receive 98% of its components through third countries, and the strategy has been to use intermediaries who hide transactions through shell companies and use neutral third-country ports to receive and ship goods.
This hovercraft carrier was produced at the Iranian Aircraft Industries (HESA) located in Isfahan and was delivered to the Islamic Republic of Iran Navy on November 28, 2012, for use in amphibious operations.
The order had been kept secret from Sarjun and in less than a year Sulayman completed the transition in 700.
The Nasr is an Iranian 12.7×108mm anti-materiel rifle, designed and built by domestic Iranian defense industries.
The policy focused on securance of the country's equipment needs from countries such as China, Russia, and North Korea.
Organizational structure The administration of the Iranology Foundation is the responsibility of its board of trustees.
Khomeini considered it his duty to issuance Islam to Islamic lands as much as possible and to respond to the call of the oppressed and Muslims, and he considered the export of the revolution as an offensive tactic against the enemies of the revolution to prevent their danger.
He continued to serve in the same post in the second cabinet of Ahmadinejad after he was elected as president in 2009.
In 2007, Iranian Revolutionary Guard forces also took prisoner Royal Navy personnel prisoner when a boarding party from HMS Cornwall was seized in the waters between Iran and Iraq, in the Persian Gulf.
It was a meeting for discussing controversial issues effecting the Muslim world, especially Takfiri movements.
When Badri Khamenei requested permission from her brother, Ali Khamenei, to join her husband, he refused.
The group was dissolved after the 2024 Syrian opposition offensives and the Fall of the Assad regime.
Holocaust On 5 September 2013, in an exchange prompted by his Rosh Hashanah greeting on Twitter as a Foreign Minister, Zarif said that Iran does not deny the Holocaust, distancing the government from the often belligerent stances by former President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
The main purpose of the foundation is to recognize, organize and support Iran's elite national talents.
Letter actions and advertisements In an action initiated by Physicians for Social Responsibility in February 2007, CASMII co-sponsored a full page advertisement in a Washington, D.C.
He ran in the first Iranian presidential elections, but lost to Abolhassan Banisadr, coming sixth out of the seven presidential candidates.
There has been speculation that he resigned following shutdowns and failures in Iran's nuclear program caused by the Stuxnet virus.
2018, Beijing It was the first festival to include India and Pakistan since they became full members.
Today, the western and northern sides of the hill are bordered by the residential districts of Khorramabad.
According to Nader Habibi, a professor of economics at Brandeis University, JCPOA will lead to the release of only about $30 billion worth of assets; a similar figure of about $32 billion was estimated by Valiollah Seif, the chief of Iran's central bank.
According to this account, the Afghans generally operated in units of 450 men (roughly the equivalent of a battalion), which seems plausible given what was seen among other actors on the Syrian regime side.
See also List of members in the Fourth Term of the Council of Experts List of members in the Fifth Term of the Council of Experts List of ayatollahs == References ==
The bill was introduced after 5 of the 15 members of Majlis special commission for examining the JCPOA issued a joint statement criticizing the commission report and lawmakers voted against fast-tracking the bill to the extent recommended by the report.
On 26 August 2025, Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said that the IRGC was responsible for the attacks.
Iranian authorities claimed that Rigi had murdered an Iranian general and carried out terrorist attacks in Iran.
The workers chanted: "Haft Tappeh prisoner must be released", "Steel, Haft Tappeh, Ittihad Ittihad", "Leave Syria, think about us", "A nation has never seen so much injustice", "We ironworkers are rooting out oppression", "Seven workers The hill must be liberated.
In 2020, the United States placed sanctions on Isfahan Central Prison, alongside Zahedan Prison, due to alleged human rights abuses of "responsible for extrajudicial killings and arbitrary detention", and that Isfahan held more prisoners than it had the capacity to.
The assembly presented the constitution on October 24, 1979, and Supreme Leader Ruhollah Khomeini and Prime Minister Mehdi Bazargan approved it.
Immediately following his retirement, Reza Khan, only a Sarhang (colonel) at the time, was promoted to Sartip, and began to rapidly rise through the ranks of the Brigade until becoming the leader of a regiment in Tehran.
Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad visited Khartoum in February 2007, when he voiced strong support for Sudan and signed seven agreements.
Aliabadi participated in the 2022 Moscow conference on international security as deputy chief of the general staff of the Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic.
Leadership History Since its transformation into the Department of Environment in 1971, the DOE has been led by a series of individuals with varying backgrounds.
Since 1993, it also has produced its own tanks, armoured personnel carriers, missiles, a submarine and a fighter plane.
He was an active member of the opposition, and in 1979 he became a director of the ultra-populist IRP newspaper Jomhouri-e Eslami, run by Mir-Hossein Mousavi.
Initiatives at the Social Security Organization Upon his appointment as CEO, Salari initiated several measures, including the adjustment of retirement pensions and the implementation of electronic prescriptions and online services.
Participation in the social insurance system is mandatory for employees under Iranian labor law, while certain self-employed groups may participate on a voluntary basis.
Yet, Iran says it is prepared to order passenger planes from Boeing and Airbus if the United States lifts sanctions against Iran.
Background On 27 May 1974, Hoveyda appointed Hushang Ansary as minister of finance, replacing Jamshid Amouzegar.
Before him, the Shah and the Prime Minister (Grand Vizier) were two important poles and had the equal power, but with the reforms he made in the Qajar bureaucracy, the power of the Prime Minister increased sharply, and this increase grew even greater with the Constitutional Revolution.
In this regard, the organization, regardless of the interpretation of the overall organizational structure, carries out its activities only in the field of education, with the support of the research field.
Contents The logs led to news reports of previously unknown or unconfirmed events that took place during the war.
On 2016 the Director of TCI announced the merger of its provincial subsidiaries and the MCI into a single business unit that allow to utilize the powerful synergies and maintain leading positions on the national telecoms market.
Before the Constitutional Revolution, the head of government was called the Grand Vizier (Sadr-e A'zam or Vazir-e A'zam).
Two of Fath-Ali Shah's sons, Prince Hossein-Ali Mirza Farmanfarma and Prince Ali-Naqi Mirza, together with Sohrab Khan Gorji, the treasurer of Fath-Ali Shah, were sent to Shiraz to prepare for the arrival of the king.
His father Al-Saltanah Entezam and older brother Abdullah Entezam were also diplomats and politicians and his grandfather was the Minister of Order under Naser al-Din Shah Qajar.
In the early 1970s, sixteen RF-4 tactical reconnaissance aircraft, also known as Photo Phantoms, were purchased, completing the squadron.
He succeeded Ayatollah Montazeri as chairman of the Iranian Assembly of Experts after the latter was ousted.
The primary requirement is that for all overtaking vessels, they must keep clear of the vessels they are overtaking.
Avoiding political and partisan tendencies One of Khomeini's most explicit instructions to the armed forces of Iran, including the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), was to avoid factionalism and refrain from membership in or activity within political parties.
Protest of sentences The German foreign minister Joschka Fischer expressed his "profound concern" over the sentences to the Iranian ambassador.
During the 20th century, the relations between the two countries were renewed, with the first Portuguese consulate in Tehran opening in December 1932, followed by a Portuguese Legation in the same city on 11 May 1956, which would eventually become an embassy.
2nd Marine Hazrat Rasul-i-Akram Brigade (Persian: تیپ دوم تفنگداران دریایی حضرت رسول اکرم) is a marines special operations capable forces brigade with armoured cavalry capabilities of Islamic Republic of Iran Navy Marine Command based in Jask, Hormozgan province.
Gasimov adds: "An important by-product of this literary genre was strongly articulated anti-Iranian rhetoric.
In Iran, the Gozinesh Law (passed in 1985) has the effect of prohibiting a number of religious and ethnic minorities from fully participating in civil life.
External links Stockholm Convention Secretariat Text of the Convention Ratifications Earth Negotiation Bulletin coverage of Stockholm Convention Meetings Introduction to the POPs Convention
(1953), "Persia", Jane's Fighting Ships 1953–1954, Jane's Fighting Ships, London: Sampson Low, Martson & Co, ISBN 9780710631435, OCLC 919022075 {{citation}}: ISBN / Date incompatibility (help) Gardiner, Robert; Chumbley, Stephen; Budzbon, Przemysaw, eds.
Vizier of the Ikhshidids of Egypt, he headed the administration during the last years before the Fatimid conquest of the country.
Background After the Iranian Revolution of 1979 and referendum to create the Islamic Republic on March 29 and 30, the new government needed to craft a new constitution.
Iran's Head of 4030 call system, Reza Mazhari, stated the telephone line receives diverse calls daily, and with both medical and psychological inquiries.
Military role The abnāʾ formed the core of the early Abbasid army and served as the mainstay of the caliphal military during the 8th and early 9th centuries.
In these videos, the bodies of hundreds of men in black bags are seen in several sheds and buildings of the Kahrizak morgue, as well as on the ground in the outdoor area.
Some changes to the constitution introduced by the Reform Council include: changing the name of the Majlis-e Melli to the Majlis-e Islami.
A shortage of spare parts for Iran's U.S.-made and British-made equipment began to cripple Iran's military forces.
CNN reported in 2000 that the Grey Wolves with most pro-Chechen stance were those affiliated with the Islamist Great Union Party (BBP), which had split from MHP in 1993.
Twice he played a significant role in preventing the Soviet Union from annexing Iran's northern provinces.
Soviet troops occupying the Northern regions refused to allow Iranian troops to enter the region to put down the uprising.
The joint Claw-Eagle and Claw-Tiger operations (Turkish: Pençe-Kartal Operasyonu and Pençe-Kaplan Operasyonu) was a Turkish Armed Forces external operation in northern Iraq.
Among his plans during his tenure as the Deputy Minister of Electrical Affairs of the Ministry of Energy were the use of renewable power plants, realizing the price of electricity and completing half-finished power plants.
The constitutional name of Iran was established as the Islamic Republic of Iran (Persian: جمهوری اسلامی ايران transliteration: Jomhuri-ye Eslāmi-ye Irān).
The Embassy of Iran in London is the diplomatic mission of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the United Kingdom.
The council put Bazargan forward as the Prime Minister of the Interim Government of Iran, which Khomeini accepted.
[he was] also considered to be a capable official." Final years and death Entezam retired in the late 1960s/early 1970s but continued to serve the Shah in some capacity.
Sudan's Prime Minister Sadiq al Mahdi made an official visit to Tehran in the late 1980s thus establishing ties with the Islamic Republic.
Ayatollah Seyyed Abol-Ghasem Kashani ended his support for the Fadayan-e Islam after the assassination.
Later, he also attended seminary courses, learned Arabic and English, and studied mathematics and philosophy.
In December 2010 it was reported that notorious Shi'a militia commanders such as Abu Deraa and Mustafa al-Sheibani were returning from Iran to work with AAH.
However, the tenure of the cabinet was very short and lasted only until 27 April when Hossein Ala' resigned from office due to threats of the Fada'iyan-e Islam members who had murdered Haj Ali Razmara.
Chief Michael D'Andrea was appointed as the head of the Iran Mission Center by the time Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, Mike Pompeo.
Further recommendations were made by a SOLAS Conference in London in 1960 which became effective in 1965.
Scientific structure The Atmospheric Science and Meteorological Research Center (ASMERC) soon expanded to nine research groups.
Table tennis The South African Table Tennis Board (SATTB), a body founded in contravention to the white South African table tennis board, was substituted for the latter by the International Table Tennis Federation.
Syrian Civil War AAH's Syrian branch was called the Haidar al-Karar Brigades, and led by Akram al-Kaabi, AAH's military leader was stationed in Aleppo.
Resolution 2231 calls for Iran to refrain from activity related to nuclear-capable missiles, but according to diplomats the language is not legally binding and cannot be enforced with punitive measures.
The General Assembly established the conviction that the apartheid is a crime against humanity, and recognized further measures from the UN to suppress and punish the apartheid.
Early life Abd-Al Majid Mirza Eyn-ed-Dowleh was born in 1845 in Tehran to Prince Soltan-Ahmad Mirza Azod od-Dowleh, the 49th son of Fath-Ali Shah Qajar(r.
to contain the rising tensions with Iran, ambassador to the United Nations Kelly Craft informed the U.N.
Using this new tanker, Idemitsu imported high-octane gasoline from California and sold it in the Japanese domestic market.
When the deposed governor of Isfahan, Majd's cousin Muhammad ibn Rustam Dushmanziyar ('Ala' al-Daula; also familiarly known as pesar-e kaku or ibn Kakuya) heard that Mas'ud had left the area, he moved rapidly to recapture, not just Isfahan, but other towns including Ray during 421–22 H (1030–31 CE).
Burundi–Iran relations refers to the bilateral relations between the Republic of Burundi and the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization is determined to facilitate an effective collaboration between Iranian and International Research Institutes on agriculture and well recognized research programs in the field.
Career Larijani served as one of the 12 members of the Guardian Council of the Islamic Republic of Iran for eight years.
The DOE has been led by a diverse range of directors, including scientists, technocrats, and former military officers, indicating shifts in political priorities and approaches to environmental governance.
The department also oversees the designation and management of Iran’s protected areas, including national parks, wildlife refuges, and natural monuments, and works to ensure sustainable development in harmony with ecological principles.
With the victory of the Iranian Islamic Revolution in 1979, young and revolutionary forces paved the way for the establishment of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) to preserve and advance the movement and its achievements.
Heads of the Imperial Inspectorate Organization Lieutenant General Morteza Yazdanpanah (1958–1962; 1968–1970); General Hossein Fardoust (1970–1979).
Islamic Republic of Iran After the Iranian Revolution of 1979, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini installed Mehdi Bazargan as the Prime Minister of an interim government, which served until November 1979.
Though the tofangchi-aghasi was considered to be a high-ranking office on paper, de facto, it was one of the lowest on the "military totem-pole" compared to the other commanding offices.
Among his professors during his studies were Abdullah Javadi Amoli, Seyyed Ahmad Khatami, Ahmad Abedi and Muhandisi.
Purposes and objectives The main areas of co-operation include finance, banking, rural development, science and technology, humanitarian development, agriculture, energy, environment, and health.
However, with the fall of Tabatabaee's government and the refusal by Mostowfi ol-Mamalek and others to accept the position of Prime Minister due to the unstable political situation, Qavam, just released from the Ishratabad prison of Tehran, was offered the position.
Nationality law of the Islamic Republic of Iran contains principles of both jus sanguinis and jus soli.
One of the alleged groups funded by the Quds force directly is the Righteous League, which emerged in 2006 and has stayed largely in the shadows as a proxy of the Quds Force.
The charges against him were dropped, but to this day he faces a charge of "disturbing public order".
He was an Iranian Armenian and the son of the son of Sarkis Khan Davidkhanian, a senior Iranian military officer in Qajar-era Iran.
Cooperation with national and international universities and research institutions through workshops, seminars and conferences.
According to the IRGC, the target of the missile strike was described as intending to bring an end to "terrorist and aggressive actions against Iran".
Mojdehi graduated from high school and received his diploma with distinction from Shahpour High School in Rasht, Iran, in 1940.
On April 2, 2026, during the spillover of the 2026 Iran war, the IRFS conducted an ambush on Israeli forces in Quneitra, reportedly managing to take down a drone.
Abdullah Burgu, Vizier Ibn al-Furât and His Family During the Collapse of Abbasids (PhD thesis under preparation, Selcuk University)
The United States, which was leading efforts to isolate Iran over its nuclear plans, has said Iran's gasoline imports are a point of "leverage." Washington accuses Iran of seeking to build nuclear weapons, a charge Tehran denied.
Nasrollah Sajjadi (Persian: نصرالله سجادی, born 1951) is an Iranian politician and sports administrator who served as Vice and Acting Minister of Sports.
In Houston, Texas, at least three protesters at an Al Quds day demonstration were arrested and a further demonstration took place outside of Harris County Jail.
While the IRGC's primary responsibility is to establish security and defend the Islamic Revolution and the country of Iran, fulfilling this mission requires the IRGC to be equipped not only with military knowledge and awareness but also with spiritual strength.
History Prior to World War II and the occupation of Tabriz by Allied leaders of World War I, the US consulate was located in an unsuitable location, and a new consulate was established in 1943 in this place.
He was imam Jumu'ah for Zanjan and Representative of the Supreme Leader in Zanjan Province in the period after Iranian Revolution until his death.
Under article 234, the receptive partner receives the death penalty; the insertive partner receives the death penalty if they used force or coercion, are married, or if they are non-Muslim and the receptive partner is Muslim; otherwise, the penalty for the insertive partner is one hundred lashes.
The Shah also sought to terminate the 1954 Consortium Agreement an effort which was finalized with the 1973 Sale and Purchase Agreement.
According to article 110 of the constitution, the Supreme Leader delineates the general policies of the Islamic Republic.
President Ebrahim Raisi said that Iran had taught a "lesson" to Israel through the attack as the Supreme Leader promised.
The secretary manages the day-to-day affairs of the SNSC, oversees policy planning, and serves as the principal intermediary between the council and key institutions, including the Iranian Armed Forces, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), and the Office of the Supreme Leader.
The agency was also a special guest of the III News Agencies’ World Congress (NAWC) in Argentina from 19 to 23 October 2010.
Now, in addition to the independent expertise of individuals, the following units pursue the office's major specialized activities: Research Unit In parallel with the establishment of the office, the research department also began its activities.
The Iranian Navy's Factories (Persian: کارخانجات نداجا) is the shipyard of the Islamic Republic of Iran Navy located in Bandar Abbas, Hormozgan Province.
Fighters of the Free Palestine Movement have also fought in other areas of Damascus, including at Harasta in August 2017 and at al-Shaghour during the Rif Dimashq offensive of early 2018.
New Islamic Civilization (Persian: تمدن سازی نوین اسلامی) is a proposed concept for establishing a new civilization, called the ultimate purpose of Iranian Government related with the Second Phase of the Revolution introduced by the Office of the Supreme Leader of Iran.
On the Persian tradition honoring noted scholars he was named as an honorary advisor to the former Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
256 votes were polled for Fazli and 19 against, while 9 members of the Parliament did not attend the session.
The hallmark of these letters is their departure from the traditional and mournful approaches by victims and is itself a sign of the exemplary power of this group and the manner in which they redefine the role of survivors.
3 - For Chinese citizens with People's Republic of China passports, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region passports or Macao Special Administrative Region passports only.
49, Oxford: Osprey Publishing, ISBN 1-84176-787-5 Bishop, Farzad; Cooper, Tom (2003), Holmes, Tony; Hales-Dutton, Bruce (eds.), Iranian F-4 Phantom II Units in Combat, Osprey Combat Aircraft, vol.
In these circumstances the dispute between the UK and Iran offered a unique opportunity to Idemitsu - he needed a reliable and affordable supply of oil while Iran needed a partner who would defy the British to trade with her.
Byproducts Besides production of sugar from sugarcane stalks, other active industries in the region include Pars Paper Factory (paper production using sugarcane pulp called "Bagasse"), Khuzestan Harir Company (production of toilet paper or tissue), livestock and poultry food and molasses production.
Side activities in this ceremony include preparing and broadcasting movies, documentaries, and visual narratives among the programs, performing hymns, plays, and music concerts, and preparing competitions, etc.
The agency was the host agency of the OANA 31st Executive Board Meeting (EBM) and the 25th Editorial-Technical Experts Group (ETEG) Meeting in 2009.
G) Proper utilization of the capabilities of all organizations, institutions of veterans, armed forces and cultural institutions in order to disseminate the values of Iran–Iraq War (sacred defense) and reflect its achievements in all fields.
Response to accusations Ahmadinejad has denied accusations of Holocaust denial, and has stated that he is simply highlighting the issue of free speech and the right to research.
Growing Iranian influence brought Jordan and Saudi Arabia closer, with both denouncing Iran together in spite of the rise of Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman.
On 7 August 2013 an activist among Khavaran survivors, Mansoureh Behkish, issued a letter to President Hassan Rouhani summarizing the plight of the Mothers and families of Khavaran.
Decline and Fall of the Sasanian Empire: The Sasanian-Parthian Confederacy and the Arab Conquest of Iran.
Fatiha likely used resources and human networks developed under the Assad regime to establish the Coastal Shield Brigade.
Structure The Badr Corps consists of infantry, armor, artillery, anti-aircraft, and commando units with an estimated strength of between 10,000 and 50,000 men (according to the Badr Organization).
Under the pressures of war, supplies were quickly exhausted and replacements became difficult to come by.
Headquartered in Tehran, it is the principal agency responsible for meteorological observations, weather forecasting and seismology, operating hundreds of observation stations across Iran.
Wa'el would rule Edessa/Osroene as a Parthian subject from 163 to 165, when the Romans regained possession of the city and reinstalled Ma'nu VIII on the throne.
The political leadership of Shiism exponentially adds to Iran's ethnic power." In 2024, the collapse of the Assad family-led Syrian regime has plunged Iran’s strategy, established since the 1979 Islamic Revolution to consolidate regional influence, into a deep crisis.
This plan, first discussed in 2007, aims to improve mental health and security in the metropolitan area and create better conditions for prisoner rehabilitation.
It broadcasts to Europe, Central Asia and the Caucasus, some parts of Northern Africa, Oceania, and all the countries in the subcontinent of India and Eastern Asia.
One of his most important activities was in the development strategy of industrial development when Eshaq Jahangiri was the minister of industries.
When in 1260 Hulegu Khan requested the presence of Georgians and Armenians for the Mongol invasions of the Levant, David Ulu, king of the Eastern Kingdom of Georgia rebelled, remembering the losses of his troops in the 1258 Siege of Baghdad.
The road of Jerusalem passes through Karbala "The road of Jerusalem passes through Karbala" was a common political slogan among some political-religious parties and groups in Iran since the victory of the Iranian Revolution.
Specifically, Qutrib defined "Useful Syria" similar to how Syrian President Bashar al-Assad defined this term in early 2016—as in, including the Syrian governorates of Damascus, Rif Dimashq, Homs, Hama, Latakia, and Tartus.
The current Speaker of Parliament is Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, with First Deputy Speaker Hamid-Reza Haji Babaee and Second Deputy Speaker Ali Nikzad.
Deputy Foreign Minister Tzipi Hotovely called the deal an "historic surrender" and said that Israel would "act with all means to try and stop the agreement being ratified"—indicating that it would try to use its influence to block the agreement in the U.S.
Life Houshang Montazeralzohour was the national champion of Iran in 82kg weight class for several years.
After the Cold War, Saudi policy shifted from fighting the spread of communism to containing Iranian influence in South and Central Asia.
Sometimes, Ta'zir imprisonment is contrasted with suspended imprisonment, which is not enforced on the accused.
Hajji Mohammad Hossein Isfahani (Persian: محمدحسین صدر اصفهانی; 1758–1823) was an architect and political leader in Isfahan during the rule of Fath-Ali Shah Qajar, the second shah of Qajar Iran.
Kayvani, in addition to teaching jurisprudence (Makasib) and principles (Kifayah), philosophy (Nihayyah al-Hikmah) and Tafsir al-Mizan at the Qom Seminary, has been teaching undergraduate courses in philosophy and Quranic sciences at the university since 2011.
Amnesty International documented more than 1,200 executions in the first five months of 1979 alone, noting that many victims were civilian officials and Artesh military officers and commanders of the former state with no demonstrated involvement in repression.
Moreover, he included Gholam-Ali Farivar as the industry minister in his cabinet, who was a former leader of the Iran Party (a party affiliated with the National Front).
In the fifth chapter, New Crisis and Enhanced Efforts, the author explains they managed a crisis resulting from Atomic Energy Organization of Iran's first incomplete report to the IAEA, especially its omission to refer to the blueprints of the second-generation (P2) centrifuges.
The complexity of these operations is underscored by the involvement of five companies across multiple countries: Jambanyani Safaris in Zimbabwe, D'Agostino & Company, Ltd in Venezuela, Catalina Holdings Corp and 82 Elm Realty LLC in New York City, and Element Capital Advisors Ltd in Panama.
After the revolution After the removal of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, Ghorbani was appointed by Ruhollah Khomeini to represent the Supreme Leader of Iran in Gilan Province, as well as being the Imam of Friday Prayer in Lahijan.
See also To the Youth in Europe and North America, Khamenei's first letter addressed to the Western youth.
(Seyyed) Yousef Tabatabai Nejad (sometimes spelled as Tabatabaei-Nejad) is an Iranian Shia cleric and Friday leading prayer that represents the Isfahan Province in Iran's Assembly of Experts.
These were Kazem Darabi, an Iranian who worked as a grocer in Berlin, Abdolraham Banihashemi, an Iranian intelligence officer, and Lebanese Abbas Hossein Rhayel.
On the same day, Syrian media claimed that the armed groups fired at IDF soldiers near the village of Turnejeh, Quneitra.
IRIS Jamaran (76) frigate IRIS Sahand (74) frigate Sina-class fast attack craft (under construction) Khalije Fars-class destroyer (under construction) See also == References ==
The end of the Iran-Iraq war marked the start of economic liberation, as well as a gain for the reformists in Parliament.
Biography and education Taleghani was born to a religious family in the village of Geliyard of Taleqan County in Alborz Province on 5 March 1911.
At the end of his investigation Khosravani co-authored a report which partly led to the closure of the Party in 1975.
Initially tasked with defending the Sayyidah Zaynab Mosque, it entered frontlines since then across Syria, until 2024.
Its head is appointed as a vice president and member of the Cabinet, reflecting the department’s elevated position in national decision-making.
Other sources estimating military budget of Iran include the International Institute for Strategic Studies (IISS) and the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI).
On election protests In a Friday prayer sermon on 29 January 2010 in Tehran, Jannati praised Iranian judicial authorities for executing two political dissidents the day before and urged officials to continue executing dissidents until opposition protests end.
One of the most important of these measures was the creation of such an institution to remain informed of events and the internal situation in the shortest possible time and without additional administrative actions.
The embassy building, along with the Ethiopian Embassy and the Polish Institute and Sikorski Museum, is one of a group of Grade II listed stucco buildings.
Some groups remain outside these broad groupings, such as faith groups or national parliamentarians.
During the protests against the headscarf requirements and the Iranian government in general in late 2022, enforcement of compulsory headscarf was relaxed, and there was even an erroneous report that it would be disbanded.
Jewish center bombing Vahidi has been wanted by Interpol since 2007 for his alleged participation in the bombing of the Jewish community center in Buenos Aires, Argentina, on 18 July 1994, in which 85 people were killed.
The NPPS publishes articles in Persian and English, covering topics including environmental policy, economic policy, foreign policy, science policy, technology policy, health policy, social policy and cultural policy.
According to CNN, the attack by Iran was "planned to minimize casualties while maximizing spectacle", and noted that Iranian drones and missiles went past Jordan and Iraq, both with U.S.
Herodotus, an ancient Greek historian, pointed out that Darius I had divided Iran into twenty tax districts and, along with each governor, sent a tax officer to each Satrap.
See also Guidance Patrol, Iran's morality police Commanding Right and Forbidding Wrong in Islamic Thought References Explanatory notes Citations Sources Rahim, Husein A.; Sheriff, Ali Mohamedjaffer (1993).
After the departure of Mohammad Beheshti to Germany in 1965, Ghorbani was re-arrested after engaging in activities related to Behehsti.
By 1978, Iran was gripped by mass turmoil and there was a significant danger that Mohammad Reza Pahlavi would be toppled by a mass rebellion led by Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.
During protests in Iraq in 2019, Asa'ib Ahl al-Haq (AAH) combatants reportedly opened fire on demonstrators attempting to set fire to the group's office in Nasiriyah, killing at least nine individuals.
Although Belarus and Turkey are listed in the convention's Annex I, they do not have emissions targets as they were not Annex I Parties when the Protocol was adopted.
His earlier mentioned posts at Baghdad and Constantinople were reportedly in conjunction with the appointment of Mirza Hosein Khan Moshir od-Dowleh as the new ambassador to the Ottoman Empire.
Timeline 12 July: PM Mohammad Mosaddegh openly announced his intention to hold the referendum, asking people to either choose between his government or the 17th Parliament.
The AIOC did, however, offer a few improvements: it guaranteed that its annual royalty payments would not drop below 4 million pounds; it would reduce the area where it would be allowed to drill; and it promised to train more Iranians for administrative jobs.
The Ministry also plays a major role in the preservation of natural resources in Iran, environmental science, public health promotion, welfare, and self-sufficiency for sustainable development of the country.
Background In Islam, Tasnim (تسنیم) is the name of a spring in Paradise from which those nearest to God are said to be able to drink.
Overview The Office of the Supreme Leader was used by the supreme leader to communicate and administer orders to various other military, cultural, economic, and political organizations.
Mohammad Hashem Mohaimeni (or Mohaymeni) (born 1955 in Gorgan, Iran) was appointed the third governor general of Golestan province, Iran in May 2002.
In 1987 amendments were made to several rules, including rule 1(e) for vessels of special construction; rule 3(h), vessels constrained by her draught and Rule 10(c), crossing traffic lanes.
In 1992, at the age of 33, he was named Friday prayer leader of his hometown, Meybod, an appointment considered relatively early in his career.
The Khatam al-Anbiya Central Headquarters (KCHQ; Persian: قرارگاه مرکزی خاتم‌ الانبیا (ص)) is the operational headquarters of the Islamic Republic of Iran Armed Forces.
After 18 June 2011, Belgrade Nikola Tesla Airport revoked landing rights for Iran Air, citing pressure from the United States.
Contributing factors Research shows that oil revenue has been a major economic factor on military spending of Iran and in the 1970s led to "petrodollar recycling".
Global Governance of Hazardous Chemicals: Challenges of Multilevel Management, Cambridge: The MIT Press.
Weapons Hezbollah has long been considered one of the best-armed non-state actors in the region or in the world, and its arsenal of weapons has grown in quality and quantity for over three decades.
After the Shah's return to Iran, negotiations between the National Oil Company and representatives of the consortium to prepare a new contract began in early 1973.
It is not surprising that he frequently clashed with Dolgorukiy and Sheil, the representatives of Russia and Britain in Tehran.
He represented the Supreme Leader of Iran in Semnan province, while also serving as the Imam of Friday Prayer in Semnan.
Ahmad Shojaei, head of Iran's Medical jurisprudence, initially announced the incident death toll at 17, with three of the victims women.
The Order of Zolfaghar (Persian: نشان ذوالفقار, Neshan-e Zolfaghar) is the highest military honour of Iran.
Before the Majlis elections in 1996, he established the Society for the Defence of the Values of the Islamic Revolution.
As of 2024, Iran's cyber activities have become more sophisticated, engaging in a persistent cyber struggle with Israel that focuses on espionage, information warfare, and attempts to target critical infrastructure, although Israel maintains a technological edge.
In August and September 1980, Banisadr survived two helicopter crashes near the Iranian border with Iraq.
Morteza Moghtadai (Persian: مرتضی مقتدایی; born 12 October 1935 in Esfahan) is an Iranian Twelver Shi'a scholar, and deputy chairman of Society of Seminary Teachers of Qom.
He has worked with Vladimir Putin on the nuclear issue, and both Putin and Ahmadinejad have expressed a desire for more mutual cooperation on issues involving the Caspian Sea.
It was notified to the government on Thursday, July 21, 2005 with the signature of the then speaker of the parliament, Gholam-Ali Haddad-Adel.
It has built 1,030 schools, with 8,000 classrooms (setting up a contract to construct 1,357 schools) in the deprived regions has turned Setad as an organization to prepare the educational facility for the poor student.
Baqir Brigade leader Khalid al-Hassan initially ordered his militia to remain neutral, and even advised the commander of another pro-government unit, the Martyr Ali Zayn al-'Abidin Berri Brigade, to also stand down during the fighting for Aleppo.
During the Safavid era, Mostowfi ol-Mamalek was in charge of the finances of the whole country and all the financial and tax affairs of the country and the dismissal and installation of the Mostowfis were done by him.
The Quran was the foundation of the constitution while the Belgian constitution served as a partial model, which guaranteed each citizen equality before the law, and a safeguarding of personal honour, property and speech.
In addition, he served as the governor of different provinces, including Zanjan (1982–1984), Lorestan (1984–1989) and Semnan (1984–1999).
In 1954, following a coup the reforms of the White Revolution helped to modernize the Pars Agency, leading to expanded news coverage, improved professional services and a better-educated staff.
Ayatollah Seyed Esmaeil Mousavi Zanjani (Persian: سیداسماعیل موسوی زنجانی, 1928 – 18 December 2002) was an Iranian Shiite cleric and politician.
Background The Shah had ambitions for a "Great Civilization" in which Iran would one day become the largest oil producer in the world.
Kay Kawād, king of Kayanian dynasty, was the first king that collect taxes legally and in a certain amount (10% of income).
Ground Force Aerospace Force Navy Quds Force Basij Police Police Deputies Old entities (obsolete) Military Academies NAJA Ministry of Defense See also Flag of Iran List of Iranian flags == References ==
According to his website, his father was Ali Mohammad, his grandfather was Mohammad Karim, his forefather was Mohammad Baqer, and his progenitor was Mohammad Sadeq.
On 19 May 2014, fighters from the Nour al-Din al-Zanki Brigade claimed to have taken over the al-Abbas Brigade's regional headquarters in Aleppo.
Iran publicly denied responsibility of the attacks, framing the attacks as "anti-Iranian" and alleging that "third parties" had maligned Iran through creating allegations of Iranian hacking.
The organization also played a role in Iran’s COVID-19 response by funding medical supplies and supporting vaccination campaigns.
In his autobiographical work, Hedayat sometimes referred to himself as "Hedayat Mazan-darani", "Tabari", or "Tabarestani" due to his father Mohammad-Hadi Khan having served the Qajar tribal leaders in Mazandaran.
With the intervention of Chief Rabbi Yedidia Shofet and other prominent members of the Tehran Jewish community, his body was finally released and initially buried in an unmarked grave in Tehran's Beheshtieh Jewish Cemetery.
The cabinet program was approved by the Majlis on 14 April receiving 110 favor votes to 0 against votes with 4 abstentions.
Since then, the Syndicate has gone on strike to improve their members’ working conditions, increase their pay and guarantee their pensions.
On 30 January 2023, the European Union imposed additional sanctions on HESA for providing Russia with UAVs used in the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine.
National Security and Nuclear Diplomacy (Persian: امنیت ملی و دیپلماسی هسته‌ای) is the memoir of Hassan Rouhani, the former President of Iran and the first secretary of Iran's Supreme National Security Council.
By 1900, Iskandar-Khan had risen to the rank of General of the Brigade and, in 1915, he became Chief of Staff.
R&D's share in the GNP is at 0.06% (where it should be 2.5% of GDP) and industry-driven R&D is almost non‑existent.
Jahed was arrested and charged for the 9 October 2002 murder of Laleh Saharkhizan, Mohammadkhani's wife.
See also Demographics of Iran International rankings of Iran Economy of Iran National Organization for Civil Registration of Iran == References ==
Crashed while performing navigational aide calibration at Kish International Airport on 3 March 2014.
After his arrest, Iranian TV showed Rigi, with hands tied, being escorted by four masked Iranian commandos.
Until the early election on July 24, 1981, the duties of the president were undertaken by the Provisional Presidential Council.
Minors who commit murder when aged 15–18 can still receive the death penalty in rare cases if the judge is confident that the perpetrator had reached full adult mental development at the time of the crime and that it was committed intentionally with a well thought-out plan.
Last days of the Seljuqs, late 12th century The rivalry after the death of Malik-Shah I had split the Sultanate, effectively creating buffer states on all sides of Ray.
The convention is monitored by Port State Control, who must assess the ballast water management plan and its operation on the ship.
When Yasser first became politically active in the Palestinian Yarmouk Camp of Damascus in 2003, he presented himself as supporting the Second Intifada.
These free psychological support services, particularly aimed at vulnerable groups, played a crucial role in alleviating mental stress and reducing unnecessary visits to medical centers during the crisis.
It enjoyed nearly full confirmation at the Majlis, including the members of the opposition party, People's Party.
Nizami's works were translated into Azerbaijani language (all were published in Azerbaijani translations between 1941 and 1947).
According to one independent study in 2022, Iran could see a windfall of one trillion US dollars over 10 years if a new agreement is signed with the P5+1.
Not only counterinsurgency units such as the Wolf Brigade, the Scorpions, and the Tigers, but the commandos and even the highway patrol police were accused of acting as death squads during this period over a decade ago.
'Tehran Channel'), is a flagship television station in Tehran, Iran, owned and operated by the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting.
Chitgar who never traveled alone and did not trust his interlocutor tried to find friends to travel with him.
In response to interview questions about "the recent power struggle, Javanfekr said the president has come 'to serve the people' and 'will stay till the end, till martyrdom'".
He later refused to run for the post of speaker possibly because of a deal made inside the conservative alliance, deciding to run instead for the post of deputy speaker.
They were Khan-Bibi Bameri, who was shot during the incursion and Lal-Bibi Bameri, who was injured critically by gun fire, and later died from her wounds.
Political activities Before the Iranian Revolution In 1938, he went to Tehran to preach and lecture on Islam and was arrested and imprisoned the next year for opposing the regime of Reza Shah.
(Persian: فهرست نمایندگان دوره نخست مجلس خبرگان رهبری, romanized: Fehreste nâmâyandegân dore nakhost majles-e khobregân-e rahbari) consists of names of the members during the first term of the Assembly of Experts from 1982 to 1990.
This law and other gozinesh provisions make access to employment, education, and a range of other areas conditional upon a rigorous ideological screening, the principal prerequisite for which is devotion to the tenets of Islam.
Those who knew that he was going to be assassinated and the accused had also confessed about the training he had received about the assassination." In the following, Mesdaghi also shows other cases of contradiction in the television confession.
Through Mansurun, he collaborated with prominent figures in the IRGC and current conservative politicians including Ali and Mohammad Jahanara, Ali Shamkhani, Mohsen Rezaei, Mohammad Forouzandeh, Mohammad Baqer Zulqader and Seyed Ahmed Avai.
Hashemabad Air Force Base (Persian: پايگاه پدافندهوائي هاشم اباد – Pāygāh Padāfand Havā’ī-ye Hāshemābād) is a village and military installation in Tudeshk Rural District, Kuhpayeh District, Isfahan County, Isfahan Province, Iran.
In November 2015, Radio Iran started broadcasting together with Ava, Qur'an, Javan and Ma'arif radio stations in the form of Radio Nama (video radio).
Passports of the above-mentioned citizens will also be stamped with a sticker visa and entry/exit stamps.
It is headquartered in the Lavizan suburb of Tehran and employs more than 10,000 people across 13 major factories.
After receiving an education and learning the Armenian language, Set was sent at the age of thirteen to be educated in English at a school in Bombay, where he also learned Hindi.
After state criminal charges had been announced, an anonymous person claiming to be one of Irsan's children created a petition stating that "racial prejudice and discrimination" had victimized the family.
The position is required to be an "honorable man" according to Article 157 [Head of Judiciary] of the Constitution of Iran.
(1979–1980), Jane's Fighting Ships, Jane's Yearbooks, ISBN 978-0531039137 Gardiner, Robert; Chumbley, Stephen; Budzbon, Przemysaw, eds.
Elham Aminzadeh is another Vice President, who was appointed by Rouhani as his vice president for legal affairs on 11 August.
The Khorramabad River runs past the eastern and south-western side of the Falak-ol-Aflak hill providing the fortress some natural protection on those sides.
Also in 1921, Atturaya visited Georgy Chicherin, the Soviet People's Commissar for Foreign Affairs, to advocate for resettling Assyrian refugees in Urmia and elsewhere in Iran, but the meeting had little effect.
The fatwa is binding only upon those who tie themselves by taqlid (conforming entirely to a scholar's opinion) to Khamenei.
But no evidence of the attack was provided, and the group later denied that the incident had taken place in a post on Telegram.
Telecommunication Company of Iran, or TCI (Persian: شرکت مخابرات ایران, romanized: Sherkat-e Moxāberāt-e Irān), is the fixed-line incumbent operator in Iran offering services in fixed telephony, DSL and data services for both residential and business customers, all throughout the country.
He was formerly administrative and financial deputy to minister of foreign affairs and governor of Kerman Province.
Resolving differences between the three wings of the armed forces and regulation of their relations.
According to the constitution (Article 111), the Assembly of Experts is tasked with electing (following Ayatollah Khomeini), supervising, and dismissing the supreme leader.
From 1954 to 1960 Tafazzoli was the Iranian official responsible for the Iranian university students in Europe.
And going forward, the post-deal relaxation of restrictions will not have as great an impact as some critics of the deal suggest." The US government also has seized a Manhattan skyscraper belonging to the Iranian government worth over a billion US dollars.
The Baluchi Autonomist Movement (BAM) was an ethnic Baluchi guerrilla movement in Iranian Balochistan during the 1980s.
In Iran, for the most part, convictions are made either by confession or "judge's knowledge", rather than witnesses.
They should also report on steps for returning individually or jointly to their 1990 greenhouse gas emission levels.
Generality Press freedom, civil society, women's rights, religious tolerance, dialogue and political development were concepts that constituted the core of Khatami's ideology, who as a cleric faced immeasurable pressure on behalf of the orthodox seminarians over the changes he was advocating.
Inheritance tax Inheritance taxes are levied at progressive rates depending on the relationship between the deceased and the heir.
They also peacefully gathered for three days in front of the Central Court in Tehran on August 21, 1988 to try to restore family visitation rights.
He also served as the Foreign Minister of Iran from 1943 to 1945, and as the Iranian Ambassador to the United States from 1945 to 1950.
Early life and education Born in Urmia in 1961, he has the license of civil engineering from Sharif University of Technology, a master's degree in systems engineering from Amirkabir University of Technology in Tehran and PhD from Imam Hossein University in Tehran.
Aghazadeh served as the Vice President for Atomic Energy of the Islamic Republic of Iran and the president of the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran from September 1997 until his resignation in July 2009.
Emphasizing these points of agreement, Jonathon Steele from the Guardian concludes that "experts confirm that Iran's president did not call for Israel to be 'wiped off the map'".
On 9 March 2018, four people from Khoddam Al-Mahdi were arrested after climbing onto the first-floor balcony of the Embassy and taking down the Iranian flag in an apparent protest against the government in Tehran due to the arrest of the Islamic scholar Hussein al-Shirazi in Qom three days earlier.
Currently, the "Iranian Blood Transfusion Organization" is the highest and only decision-making authority in the field of supply and distribution of blood and healthy blood products in Iran, and all decisions related to blood products are directly related to this organization.
The attack On 1 July 2025, Basij and state security forces coordinated a deadly attack on civilians in Gunich, a small village in Khash country, located in Iran’s Sistan and Baluchestan province.
In 1963 he was persecuted by the PIDE and joined the National Liberation Front of Angola in the north of Angola and moved to the Democratic Republic of Congo, where he attended the Institut National D'Etudes Politiques.
Initially, Radio Iran was called Radio Tehran, but in 1957 its name changed to Radio Iran while a second transmitter started working parallel to the first one.
It provides additional legal mechanisms for enforcing the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs and the 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances.
In 2025, an X account claiming to be associated with the Mossad announced that Abdollahi is the new commander of the Khatam al-Anbiya Central Headquarters, after commanders Gholam Ali Rashid and Ali Shadmani were assassinated in the Twelve-Day War.
On 22 June 2025, the United States Air Force and Navy attacked three nuclear sites in Iran: the Fordow Uranium Enrichment Plant, the Natanz Nuclear Facility, and the Isfahan Nuclear Technology Center.
Majid Zamani, is an Iranian political activist and entrepreneur, known for taking part in many international discussions concerning Iran's political future and governance.
The Badr Brigade, formed in 1982 and led by Iranian officers, served as the military arm of the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq (SCIRI), a Shia Islamic party based in Iran.
Voters at the booth against the motion were presented with intimidating signs such as “Only Traitors Vote for Non-Dissolution.” Rural areas were also excluded from the ballot, under the argument it would take too long to count the votes from remote areas.
Troops of the Free Palestine Movement also operated in Hama in late 2017, and fought in the Battle of Deir ez-Zor (September–November 2017).
Auto liability Third-part auto liability accounted for 37.6% of insurance firms’ total generated premiums during the year ended in March 2016, with insurers selling about 19.18 million auto policies in the period.
Mohammad-Ali Ramin (Persian: محمدعلی رامین, born 1954) is an Iranian politician, political analyst and writer who served as the Vice Minister of Culture and a presidential advisor under President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
Among the actions of the Americans in this consulate, can mention the display of an example of the "moonstone" that American astronauts brought to Earth from the Moon, in the big hall of the consulate, and the invitation of the people of Tabriz to watch this stone.
The prison has carried out capital punishment against prisoners since at least 2009, including the execution of minors.
Derailment attempts The New York Times has reported that the Stuxnet computer worm appears to have wiped out roughly a fifth of Iran's nuclear centrifuges, and has delayed the Iranian's nuclear weapons capability.
According to official sources, Qased (قاصد) is a "three-stage, solid-propellant launcher" and the Noor ( نور) satellite was placed in a 425-km orbit.
Career As a result of the rarity of multilingual individuals in Bushire, Set became the translator for the Ambassador of Great Britain, who was traveling to Iran to meet with Fath-Ali Shah and his court in Tehran.
Salih followed the order and charged Ibn al-Muhallab's brother, Abd al-Malik, with supervising the torture.
He also added, "In the field of defense, we can use the satellite system for intelligence elites, command and control, and for guiding guided equipment".
Earlier, police arrested Zaniar Matapour, a Norwegian citizen from Sanandaj, Kurdistan Province of Iran, who had lived in Bergen, Norway, since 1991.
'Trustee of the Realm'), was the chief revenue accountant or minister of finance (mostowfi ol-mamalek) and later prime minister under the Qajar shah Fath-Ali Shah (r.
Views on the Holocaust in December 2006, Ramin organised the International Conference to Review the Global Vision of the Holocaust which took place in Tehran.
In theory, it could still be used as a punishment because the penal code allows judges to impose sentencing according to "valid Islamic sources" and Sharia punishments.
In November 2009, the consortium paid 1564 billion tomans for the 50 percent of the shares in the Telecommunication Company priced over 7000 billion tomans with rest of the amount to be paid within next eight years.
Iran Tribunal is an international People's Tribunal and a non-binding legal tribunal residing in The Hague, the Netherlands, aiming to investigate serious allegations of Human Rights violations and Crimes against humanity in the Islamic Republic of Iran during the 1980s.
Suspicion rose this was done by or with an Iranian involvement, at the moment Iran has denied its involvement in this murder.
The campaign in the streets of major cities is the toughest such crackdown since the Islamic revolution.
He was the first Iranian Ambassador to the United Nations from 1947 to 1950 and President of the UN General Assembly during its fifth session in 1950.
Description On the Iranian Solar Hijri calendar, this day is registered as the anniversary of the 1979 establishment of the Islamic Republic.
Iranian response Iran's state media agency, IRNA, quoting an Iranian official, reported that there was no radioactive material at the three sites which were targeted.
The Islamic Republic News Agency stated that the execution was carried out following a decision of the Tehran revolutionary tribunal.
The Economic Cooperation Organization Secretariat is located in the Kamranieh neighborhood of Tehran, the capital city of Iran.
January 31, 2006: The IAEA reports that "Iran has continued to facilitate access under its Safeguards Agreement as requested by the Agency ...
(Khamenei had not achieved the rank of ayatollah at the time of his installation as supreme leader, and the third supreme leader has not either.) Sanctions On 24 June 2019, U.S.
In addition, the Ministry of CIG is one of the bodies of the Iranian government responsible for informing Iranians about the alignment of religion with law in the UN Member State of Iran.
Reporters asked Khamenei about Tehrani's stance and he responded, "Now that you insist, I must say that Ali Tehrani has unfortunately fallen victim to a conspiracy.
In 252 H (866 CE), we learn of Ahmad recapturing Ray from the Tahirid governor 'Abd Allah ibn 'Aziz with the help of the Daylamite prince Justan ibn Wahsudan, so presumably he was expelled at some point.
The loyalty of the Cossack Brigade was fully guaranteed, not only by the previous purge carried out by commander Vladimir Liakhov, but also by the Shah's distribution of a special bonus in 1908.
It attempts to strengthen the main weaknesses of the 1970 UNESCO Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property.
The legislature of Islamic republic of Iran (Persian: قوه مقننه جمهوری اسلامی ایران) consists of two components, a unicameral parliamentary chamber called Islamic Consultative Assembly and a reviewing power, the Guardian Council of the Constitution which is more powerful.
Said Hadi, Sheik of Shalamcheh introduced himself as the chief of the political movement of Ahwazi Arabs (the largest Arab community of Khūzestān).
The referendum was approved by more than 99% of voters, with the result being described as fraudulent.
She was the director of Humanitarian Assistance for the Women and Children of Afghanistan (HAWCA) that was established in 1999 back in Pakistan.
The day exists partly in opposition to Israel's Jerusalem Day, which has been celebrated by Israelis since May 1968 and was declared a national holiday by the Knesset in 1998.
Moreover, the military cabinet members had little experience in their respective areas of responsibility.
This led to a fiery attack by Ayatollah Khomeini from Qom, and resulted in his historical exile to Turkey, and many subsequent riots.
Leadership is the criterion of the unity of the nation and the guidance of this single nation should be done by the guardian and the Imam.
His most extensive work was a volume series titled The Political Relations of Iran and Britain in the 19th Century.
The General Board of the Supreme Court has the right to issue a "vote of judicial precedent", which enjoys the status of law.
In October 2018, an IRGC unit in charge of the body's economic operations announced it has left Iran's telecommunications industry, after selling its share in a consortium controlling Iran's top telecoms companies and biggest mobile phone operator.
In a speech in Tehran marking the end of Ramadan two days later, Khamenei said, "Our policies toward the arrogant government of the United States will not be changed at all," adding, "the Americans say they stopped Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon ...
The rescued personnel were subsequently transported to the Galle National Hospital, where they received medical treatment for exhaustion and blast-related injuries.
During the time, the two cabinets of Mosaddegh took control except for a brief period between 16 and 21 July 1952, in which Ahmad Qavam was the Prime Minister, taking office due to resignation of Mosaddegh from premiership and deposed by Shah after five days of mass demonstrations.
Hujatal Islam Kariminia asserts that society is largely unaware of the clear distinction between homosexuality and transsexuality, comparing the gap between the two to the "Great Wall of China" (Najmabadi, 2014, p.
When he is arrested on June 21 at his mother's house, Bahari first believes it must be a mistake and he will soon be released.
In May 1955, Amir-Alai and four other political figures, including Bagher Kazemi, who were all close to Mosaddegh were arrested on the orders of the military governor of Tehran, Teymur Bakhtiar.
Mohammad Hejazi was commander who oversaw the suppression of the civil unrest in the 2009 Iranian presidential election protests.
See also Martiros Khan Davidkhanian Alexander Khan Setkhanian Edmund Ironside Reza Shah == References ==
Ali Akbar Feiz Aleni (Persian: علی‌اکبر فیض آلنی; 2 December 1921 – 30 July 2007), better known as Ali Meshkini (علی مشکینی), was an Iranian Islamic cleric and politician.
History In February 2026, a forum of dozens of notable Iranian opposition figures had preliminary meeting in London.
Three Noor satellites have been launched from the Shahroud Space Center in Shahrud Desert in Iran into low Earth orbit aboard three-stage Qased (lit.
Their male offspring received the title of Şehzade, or prince (literally, "offspring of the Shah", from Persian shahzadeh).
With his new team, Set Khan successfully located and mined sites that produced silver, copper, and coal.
Ghassemlou was the Secretary-General of the Democratic Party of Iranian Kurdistan (KDPI) from 1971 until his assassination in 1989 by individuals suspected of being agents of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
On September 2, 2024, the UK government imposed sanctions on Fazeli for his involvement in supporting armed groups == References ==
On 12 September 1954, he became a full colonel and served with that rank until 1960 when he was promoted to general in the Imperial Iranian Army.
Witnesses later stated that a trusted aide brought a briefcase into the conference room, setting it between the two leaders, then left.
Bokharaei was later executed, along with three others implicated in the assassination – Reza Saffar Harandi, Haaj Sadegh Amani, and Morteza Niknejad.
As of July 2020, the Protocol had 173 parties, which includes 170 United Nations member states, the State of Palestine, Niue, and the European Union.
It was established in 1856 as the Decoration of the Commander of the Faithful, by Naser al-Din Shah Qajar.
Connection with Ahmadinejad Behbahani was the supervisor of Ahmadinejad during his PhD studies at Iran University of Science and Technology where he was involved in a plagiarism scandal.
During his governorship of Erivan, he oversaw both the civil administration and military of the province.
The issue is relevant to situations scholars examined (and disagree on) where an enforcers saw what could be a "bottle of liquor or lute" hidden under a robe, or a man and woman that looked like they might be unmarried, or heard music coming from a home.
The only caveat being that if the employer terminates the relationship, he must pay the employee for the entire duration of the probation period.
Through selection of applicants who wished to enter universities and by the formation of institutions inside universities, the council took control of the affairs of all university students.
On 28 June 2021, another airstrike targeted the base, which left at least nine Iran-backed Iraqi militia fighters dead and many others injured, according to SOHR.
Ministers and officials The first minister of foreign affairs of Iran was Mirza Abdulvahab Khan, who served from 1821 to 1823.
The organization determined that large diversified conglomerates, such as the South Korean Chaebol, helped developing economies such as Iran's growing faster.
He was a former member of Shiraz's city council, being elected in 2013 local election, but resigned on 15 June 2015 in favor of standing at the parliamentary election.
The inaugural ceremonies were held at the hospital where Khomeini was recovering from a heart ailment.
"This is a situation where unless you have the detail, you do not know that you have the agreement," explained the official.
No legislation exists to address discrimination or bias motivated violence on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity.
As of 2005, most of the Internet connections are dial-up, but faster ADSL connections are becoming more popular.
The Board of Directors of the Islamic Consultative Assembly consists of a chairman, two vice-chairmen, six secretaries and three observers.
The United States argued against this, possibly worried that classifying the issue as separate from adaptation would create yet another climate finance provision.
Diplomatic career Born in Iran, Bayandor served as a senior diplomat of the Iranian government in New York City and Tehran in the 1960s and 1970s.
He is known amongst Kurds by some 1000 cassettes which are recorded using lectures given in various places.
The group is allegedly supported by Iran, and was trained by the Baqir Brigade, which was a Local Defence Militia in Syria.
Iranian cooperation On 16 June, the Iranian military shelled the Choman area of the Qandil Mountains, an attack that is believed to have been coordinated with the simultaneous Turkish airstrikes.
He had been in trouble with SAVAK before the Iranian revolution, he was arrested for making anti-Shah speeches.
He was also the chairman of the Institute for Research in Planning and Development and has been professor at the Institute.
He was a governor in the Mongol-controlled area of Persia from 1243 to 1255, before the Ilkhanate was created by Hulagu.
He was the deputy of Ali Larijani in charge of the cultural, social and media affairs during the first presidential term of Mahmoud Ahmedinejad.
Officials called it a "blatant Turkish drone attack" in the autonomous Kurdish region in northern Iraq.
As Iran's top nuclear envoy, Larijani said on 25 April 2007 that he expected "new ideas" from senior EU official Javier Solana at talks on resolving the deadlock between Tehran's refusal to freeze its nuclear programme and United Nations Security Council demands that it do so.
would unilaterally "snapback" sanctions against Iran that had been lifted as part of the JCPOA—an argument based on the stance that the U.S.
Following the Iranian protests, caused by a national unrest over economic crisis, political repression, calls for government change, answered by a harsh government reaction, Iranian diaspora decided to establish the Iran Freedom Congress.
Abdolkarim Hosseinzadeh (Persian: عبدالکریم حسین زاده; born 1980) is an Iranian engineer, politician and Vice President of Iran for Rural Development Affairs and disadvantaged Regions since 2024.
On 16 June 2016, 6 IRGC security members including their commander were reportedly killed by Kurdish insurgents of the PDKI in Shno area according to statement of Rostam Jahangiri - head of the PDKI political and military commission.
Iran has called the snapback sanctions "procedurally flawed" because they rely on terms of the 2015 agreement long abandoned by the U.S.
Canada's Prime Minister Stephen Harper reacted to the report during a news conference with Australian Prime Minister John Howard.
However, there is no consensus among experts as to which countries are among the goals of this policy, and from which point of view this policy should be viewed.
One of the cities of the county is appointed as the capital (مرکز: markaz, or center) of the county.
The ministry was established in 2000 when the ministry of culture and higher education was renamed as the ministry of science, research and technology.
264 (2023) is available from: Justia Oyez (oral argument audio) Supreme Court (slip opinion) Supreme Court (preliminary print)
According to Der Spiegel, in 1987, as the head of Iran's nuclear energy commission, Naraghi was part of a secret delegation that met with associates of A.Q.
In the 1960s, the Shah initiated the formation and organization of large oil-exporting countries which would become known as the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
In 1999 he submitted an editorial opinion piece to the International Herald Tribune about war refugees in Africa.
In 1625, there was an attempt to reclaim Ormuz by Portugal-Spain, which culminated in a great naval battle off Hormuz between eight Portuguese galleons and an Anglo-Dutch fleet of similar strength.
For example, masculine names include Šah-amir and Amir-šah, Šah-paron and Paron-šah, and Vahram-šah; feminine names include Šah-xat‘un and Xat‘un-šah, and Šah-tikin.
In the preface of the book, the author has noted that in line with the old saying, “fewer words can make the point,” he had decided to print excerpts from the main book as an independent volume to be used by those readers who lack enough time to go through the original volume.
This is implemented as a 30-year centered average of the annual global temperature anomaly, referenced to the 1850-1900 average temperature.
After the war, he went to a seminary and continued his non-secular studies simultaneously with his seminary studies.
The office of Prime Minister of Iran was established in 1907 during the Persian Constitutional Revolution and existed until 1989 when the office was abolished after a constitutional referendum.
He also had a grandson in Hossein Khezri Azizi-far, again a different surname for political purposes as Koorush (his father) was assassinated.
Czech Republic: Foreign Ministry condemned Tehran terrorist attacks and expressed its deep concern over the new wave of violence in the fasting month of Ramadan in its Twitter account.
See also List of armed groups in the Syrian Civil War Quwat Abu al-Fadhal al-Abbas Holy Shrine Defender List of military units named after people == References ==
Professors Mohammad Taqi Sotoudeh Ansari Shirazi Javad Tabrizi Javadi Amoli Hassanzadeh Amoli Authors Dozens of articles, versions of Javad Tabrizi's jurisprudence and principles courses, as well as the book Marriage in Islam have been published by him.
However, on 22 October 2012, during a Q and A meeting with the students of Iran University of Science and Technology, Larijani denied the allegations that he had congratulated Mousavi.
In addition, the Associated Press reported in November 2013 that officials in the Obama administration had been in contact secretly with Iranian officials throughout 2013 about the feasibility of an agreement over the Iranian atomic program.
The paper was banned again for six months by an Iranian court due to its alleged false report in June 2013.
Apart from the 25 per cent corporation tax and the 0.3 per cent Chamber of Commerce tax no more taxes will be payable by the corporate entity or the shareholders.
About the Signed Treaty International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid The treaty became effective during the 28th session of the General Assembly in 1974.
During the initial period of the Shah's Inspection, the government began taking more active steps to combat corruption.
Under the reign of Reza Shah Pahlavi (1925–1941), Taqizadeh contributed to the formation of the modern Iranian nation-state.
The ministry is one of the three "sovereign" ministerial bodies of Iran due to nature of its work at home and abroad.
This monument was designed by Alireza Nazem Alroaya and constructed by Sadeh Architecture City Construction.
See also Order of Aftab Neshan-e Aqdas Order of the Lion and the Sun References External links Online Gallery of Orders & Decorations of Pahlavi dynasty Archived 2021-01-26 at the Wayback Machine
Al-Sadr, who had thousands of staunch followers across Iraq, had been consistently opposing the presence of foreign forces and repeatedly called for an immediate end to the Iraq War.
His tafsir, or Quranic commentary, was innovative in language and clearly designed to appeal to a wide audience, with the use of narrations and juridical reports.
'bey of beys', meaning the 'commander of commanders' or 'lord of lords’, sometimes rendered governor-general) was a high rank in the western Islamic world in the late Middle Ages and early modern period, from the Anatolian Seljuks and the Ilkhanids to Safavid Iran and the Ottoman Empire.
The group reportedly recruited Shia tribesmen from Bedouin tribes in Eastern Syria, who were a part of the Iranian-affiliated Euphrates Valley Tribes and Clans Council.
Ya Zahra (Persian: یا زهراء, O Zahra) is an Iranian unlicensed copy of the Chinese HQ-7 missile, itself an unlicensed copy of the French Crotale missile short-range air defense system.
Demographics According to a poll conducted by the Iranian Students Polling Agency (ISPA) in April 2017, 15% of Iranians identify as leaning Principlist.
The organization was reportedly established and led by Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, until his assassination outside Tehran on November 26, 2020.
The primary objective of this movement was to implement the Ja'fari school’s interpretation of Islamic Shariʿa (also referred to as Shariʿa law or Islamic law).
Conflicting EU interest Serbia put sanctions on Iran as a part of EU accession procedure, according to local media reports from 2012.
Therefore, in order to regulate relations and status, duties, and the dress of aristocracy and subjects, the Sultan created firmans.
The assembly consists of 88 members who are directly elected by the public to serve eight-year terms, and all candidates must be vetted by the Guardian Council.
On Saturday, December 1, 2018, Haft Tappeh and Ahwaz Steelworkers in the cities of Shush and Ahwaz protested against the non-fulfillment of their demands.
Political Involvement Salari coordinated the election headquarters in southern regions during the 2013 presidential election.
Others, however, warned that the convention was wide enough to cover other States that practiced racial discrimination.
An example being where a senior member will confirm that someone is a member of Ansar-e Hezbollah and also has a travel agency selling plane tickets.
Ten days after his arrest, on 18 January 2026, state media broadcast confessions by five of the defendants.
Another such incident happened on 15 March 2019 as well, but no casualties from this incident have been reported yet.
2025 plot to target Jews and Israelis In July 2025, the German and Danish authorities have disrupted a plot by the IRGC-QD to target Jewish individuals and institutions in Berlin.
Abdolreza Ansari (1925–2020) was an Iranian engineer, bureaucrat and politician who held various government posts.
He has been a key player in the 2024 Iran–Israel conflict and vowed revenge against Israel and the United States of America following the June 2025 Israeli strikes on Iran.
Esmail Bakhshi, a representative of the Haft Tappeh Sugarcane workers, and two others were arrested on Sunday, October 23, 2018.
In 1993, Tehran Radio was established as a provincial group and from 12 November 1994, as an independent radio station and as Tehran Radio Network for the capital of Iran, which continues to work until now.
Responses In the aftermath of the attack, Maryam Rajavi, President-elect of the National Council of Resistance of Iran (NCRI), issued a statement condemning the raid and paying tribute to the women of Gunich.
Multiple protests have occurred near or outside the prison to express disapproval of death sentences and prisoner mistreatment.
The Chief of the Supreme Court The chief of the Supreme Court is nominated by the head of the judiciary for a period of five years in consultation with the judges of the Supreme Court.
He was the Imam of Friday Prayer in Tuyserkan and the Chief of the Supreme Court of Iran, as well as representing the people of Markazi province in the Assembly of Experts from 1998 to 2024.
Unfortunately, the Zionist regime is blackmailing the Europeans with the Holocaust." Speaking about Baghdad bridge stampede that occurred on 31 August 2005 when up to 1,000 people died he said: "[Iran offers its] condolences and sympathy with the Iraqi people and government.
The company provides services through cooperation between science-based institutions and scientists based on medicine around the world.
In 1972, Spain and Sweden were admitted to the group, but in 1973 Great Britain and the Netherlands decided to withdraw from the group.
He returned to Iran in 1995 and was sentenced to 20 years in prison but was released ten years later in 2005.
The Apartheid Convention of 1973 is a reaction to these items, building on arguments and agreements made in the International Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Racial Discrimination or ICERD which took place four years prior.
The Imams of Friday Prayer of each provincial capital (with the advice of all the Marja') for life Iran's regional policy is directly controlled by the Office of the Supreme Leader of Iran with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' task limited to protocol and ceremonial occasions.
In 1980, ahead of the Iranian presidential elections, tensions escalated between Tehrani and the Islamic Republic leadership over their preferred candidates for the presidency.
The Ministry of Education of the Islamic Republic of Iran (Persian: وزارت آموزش و پرورش جمهوری اسلامی ایران, romanized: Vezârat-e Âmôzesh vâ Parvâresh-e Jomhuri-ye Eslâmi-ye Iran, lit.
Guardian Council The Guardian Council is a part of the legislature that acts in many ways as an upper house to the Consultative Assembly.
Works Ayatollah Sadiq Larijani wrote works in a variety of different fields such as Islamic jurisprudence (fiqh), principles of Islamic jurisprudence (Uṣūl al-fiqh), analytic philosophy, philosophy of language, and moral philosophy.
The elite members of INEF are selected based on a different regulation called Allameh Tabatabaei grant; and will be granted the Allameh Tabatabaei award of INEF.
It makes recommendations on policy and implementation issues to the COP and, if requested, to other bodies.
Branches of the Supreme Court The Supreme Court is headquartered in Tehran and by May–June 2014 (Khordad 1393 SH), it has had 42 branches, of which 5 are in Qom, 3 in Mashhad and the rest are in Tehran.
The Tehran delegation was as before, namely Mohammed Jafar Sahraroudi and Hadji Moustafawi, except that this time there was also a third member: Amir Mansur Bozorgian who was a bodyguard.
Azarakhsh fighter jet (based on Northrop F-5) Saeqeh fighter jet (based on Northrop F-5) Simorgh: The Simorgh (هواپيماي سيمرغ) is a HESA-built two-seat Northrop F-5A to F-5B conversion.
Stakeholders IMIDRO (%12) Contractors Heavy Equipment Production Company (HEPCO) Mining locations Shahr-e Babak Sungun copper mine == References ==
Khamenei issued decrees and made the final decisions on the economy, environment, foreign policy and everything else in Iran.
Ezzatollah Sahabi, was managing editor of the now-banned journal Iran-e Farda (The Iran of Tomorrow.
Four of them have remained distant from politics, in contrast to their father, while one of his daughters, Farideh Moradkhani, is known for her opposition to the Islamic Republic.
Despite suffering life-threatening injuries, medical clerk Dadgar said he had forgiven him and signed a release petition with other hostages, commenting, "He has been punished.
Treaty deadlines The treaty set up several steps with deadlines toward complete destruction of chemical weapons, with a procedure for requesting deadline extensions.
In 1894 when his daughter Maryam Davidkhanian married Alexander Khan Setkhanian, another high ranking and highly decorated General in the Iranian army, Martiros added this mansion-compound to her dowry.
According to reports, this act of resistance was not merely spontaneous but represented a legacy of generational defiance by a community long subjected to systemic neglect, discrimination, and violence.
AAH has claimed responsibility for over 6,000 attacks in Iraq including the October 10, 2006 attack on Camp Falcon, the assassination of the American military commander in Najaf, the May 6, 2006 downing of a British Lynx helicopter and the October 3, 2007 attack on the Polish ambassador.
Regime change The Leaders Of The Sedition Iran Experts Initiative Caliphate World communism References Khomeini, Ruhollah (1979).
On 2 April 2018, another pro-government faction with a similar background emerged in the al-Hasakah Governorate.
The Guardian Council has the power to disqualify candidates, often leaving only those who align with the ruling establishment.
Hosseinzadeh studied and received a master's degree in municipal or urban engineering from Iran University of Science and Technology.
Functions and Services The EMS of Iran is responsible for policy making, planning, organizing, coordinating, and managing emergency medical responses.
His father was Colonel Mohammad Hossein Khan who was killed at age 26 in a battle against rebels before his birth.
of Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) on 11 May 2018, EDBI is on the SDN list, subject to Secondary Sanctions.
Halfway around the pond, Alexander stopped walking and Reza Khan put his arm around the older general's shoulder, and continued to walk.
Votes International reactions European Union: Foreign Policy Chief Federica Mogherini welcomed approving the bill.
In September 2012, Hasanvand was assigned as the governor of Bushehr, a province in south coast of the country.
There are shopping centers in Tehran and other cities in Iran that specialize in the distribution of often highly specialized software.
Centre for Strategic Studies of NAJA (Persian: مرکز مطالعات راهبردی ناجا) is a think tank and strategic studies research institute affiliated with the Law Enforcement Force of Islamic Republic of Iran.
Role during the uprising Political demands Before the uprising started, the Coalition called for political reform to establish a real Constitutional Monarchy which the National Action Charter stated.
Yet another protester, Hamed Nour-Mohammadi, was killed on February 20 when "thousands took to the streets of Iran's largest cities", according to Human Rights Watch "to commemorate the deaths of Saneh Jaleh", and Mohammad Mokhtar.
Abu'l-Khattab Ja'far ibn Muhammad ibn Musa ibn al-Hasan ibn al-Furat (died 909/10), head of the land department of East and West from 908 to his death.
Based on the latest announcement by the National Organization for Civil Registration of Iran, the validity of all Iranian identity cards that have expired will be extended until 20 March 2027 (end of 1405 based on Iraninan Calendar), and there is no need to replace them.
Bayandor dismissed as prevarication the claim by the CIA operative in Tehran Kermit Roosevelt to the effect that he had planned events of August 19 two nights earlier in a "Council of War" held at the American Embassy in Tehran.
officials emphasized that snapback gave Washington and its allies a unilateral remedy if Iran violated the accord, often explaining that sanctions could be restored “in a snap” if required.
On 24 January 2011, Soleimani was promoted to the rank of major general (Sarlashkar) by Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei.
H) Utilizing the achievements of liberation movements, the culture of resistance and the literature of stability of other nations to develop the culture of self-sacrifice and martyrdom and endurance against global arrogance.
Controversies Strictness Although this center is known as one of the toughest places to undergo military training, some conscripts describe it as a nightmare.
The SSO is classified as a non-governmental public institution and is primarily financed through insurance contributions.
On 3 January 2024, an explosion occurred near a cemetery in Kerman, on the 4th anniversary of Soleimani's death.
The seventh chapter, titled Paris Agreement, concentrates on domestic and international conditions and the Paris agreement.
Career Elham was a member of the Guardian Council from 2003 to 2008 and also held the post of spokesperson of the council.
The main mandate of the Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization is to develop and manage all research activities of agriculture and natural resources in the Ministry of Agriculture Jihad.
Iran's supreme leader, Ali Khamenei, also sent a senior envoy to Moscow to meet President Vladimir Putin.
At the 2018 SCO summit in Qingdao, China's paramount leader Xi Jinping pledged to set up a 30 billion yuan ($4.69 billion) for a special lending facility within the framework of the SCO Interbank Consortium.
Optional The President may or may not choose vice presidents for specific issues, but their existence is not obligatory.
These were the Auditing Institute of the National Industries Organization, the Auditing Institute of the Mostazafan Foundation (1970), and the Shahed Auditing Institute (1983).
Down with the reactionaries!" Khomeini summoned Taleghani to Qom where he was given a severe dressing-down after which the press was called.
ملک‌الشعرا بهار; his biography his biography Further reading A Brief History of Persian Literature, Iran Chamber Society.
"Assembly of experts (of the Leadership)", or the "Council of Experts" is the deliberative body empowered to appoint and dismiss the Supreme Leader of Iran; there has been a vacancy in the position since Seyyed Ali Khamenei's death on 28 February 2026.
Robert Malley, the representative of the US in Iranian affairs, called Amini's death "horrific" and wrote: "Mahsa Amini’s death after injuries sustained in custody for an "improper" hijab is appalling.
In London a Kurdish protester forced a car transporting Boris Johnson to stop in order to raise awareness to the situation of the Kurds in Iraqi Kurdistan.
announced new executive orders and designations to punish any arms transfers to Iran and to blacklist Iranian entities involved in nuclear or missile activities.
As she was born into an intellectual family, she grew up with high motivation to always fight and struggle for the rights of devastated people.
The Bureau of Museums of Astan Quds Affiliated with the library are eleven different museums which are located in different buildings near each other.
Bahar describes Damavand as a beast, and asks it to rise and wipe out injustice, and let the real Iran flourish.
Disenfranchised Article 3 of this chapter stated that (1) women, (2) foreigners, (3) those under 25, (4) "persons notorious for mischievous opinions," (5) those with a criminal record, (6) active military personnel, and a few other groups are not permitted to vote.
With the formation of the Achaemenid Empire and the expansion of Iran's geographical borders from Egypt to India, regular offices and organizations were formed to receive the country's taxes and finances.
History The group was officially founded on 1 January 2015, in Latakia province as a local militia for Republican Guard.
The channel is similar to Press TV, an English language news channel and Al-Alam, an Arabic satellite TV station also owned by the Iranian state.
Ibn Fuladh disappears from the historical record after this, so it is likely that the incumbent governor of Isfahan made an effective objection after the fashion of the time.
Based on this, the POPRC decides to recommend that the COP list the substance under one or more of the annexes to the convention.
The demographic transformations in Rif Dimashq and Homs governorate between 2011 and 2016 were especially notable: Rif Dimashq went from 87% Sunni in 2011 to 54% Sunni in 2016.
Eyn-ed-Dowleh accompanied the shah on his European journey that summer, leaving day-to-day management to the crown prince, whose handling of Tehran affairs added further.
Its subject is "Determining the legal status and dimensions of the Supreme Leader's nuclear-fatwa" through international law".
On August 30, 1981, President Rajai held a meeting of Iran's Supreme Defense Council, along with Prime Minister Mohammad Javad Bahonar.
Our people in Azerbaijan will follow him alongside the Persians in the same spirit of brotherhood that we have kept for decades ...
Salami hailed it as an "amazing invention" by Basiji scientists and a remarkable achievement for the IRGC.
The morality police in Iran are responsible for ensuring compliance with the country's compulsory dress code laws.
Numerous narrations in Islamic sources emphasize the importance and value of guarding Islamic lands and borders.
In 2023, the European Union adopted an eighth package of sanctions on Iran, thereby significantly expanding the scope of sanctions against Tehran.
Irreligious people are also not recognized and do not have basic rights such as education, becoming member of parliament etc.
Senior officials in the administration of Ebrahim Raisi, the president of Iran who took office after the Maximum Pressure Campaign's termination, claimed that oil sales in the initial months of Raisi's presidency had jumped by 40 percent despite being under "stringent US sanctions".
Setad), an executive at the Mostazafan Foundation, chairman of the board of Sina Bank, deputy governor of Khuzestan Province and CEO of Dezful Telecommunications.
Turkey: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs welcomed the agreement in a statement saying that its implementation would contribute to regional peace, security and stability.
He lived in Baghdad, where he lectured, issued fatwas, and was later appointed as Judge of Judges (Arabic: قاضي القضاة, romanized: Qāḍi al-Quḍāt) in 436/1044–1045 and kept the position until his death.
"Is Iran legally permitted to close Strait of Hormuz to countries that impose sanctions against Iran's oil?".
Among its major investors were IRGC Co-op Foundation, Mostazafan Foundation, and Execution of Imam's Order company.
If the Council does not adopt a resolution to continue sanctions relief within 30 days (for instance, due to a veto by any permanent member), all prior U.N.
Verdens Gang reported that Matapour had been stopped by police in April when he was in the same car as Bhatti.
The list of major laws and legal acts affecting trade in goods and services in Iran as of 2009: The Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran; The Twenty-Year Vision of the I.R.
By providing transparent and accurate statistics, it is considered the main reference for national and regional strategic planning.
August 9, 2005: The Iranian Head of State, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, issued a fatwa forbidding the production, stockpiling and use of nuclear weapons.
He was replaced in April 1957 after an upsetting international incident involving the murder of three Americans by outlaw Ahmad Shah and his gang.
Whereas Chapter II of the Convention deals with stolen cultural objects, Chapter III contemplates the export of cultural property in violation of national export restrictions.
From 2024, all ships are required to have approved Ballast Water Management Treatment System, according to the D2 standard (see below).
Career Following his return to Iran Khosravani established a magazine entitled Afkar Iran with his brother.
The commander, General Fazlollah Zahedi, accompanied by several government officials, met with Khazal and spent an evening with him on board his yacht, anchored in the Shatt al-Arab river by his palace in the village of Fallahiyah near the city of Mohammerah.
In 2001, Doctrines of Shi'i Islam: A Compendium of Imami Beliefs and Practices book (ISBN 1860647804) was translated into English and published by I.
In 2005, the capacity of the Council to act as a government supervisory body was supplemented to its powers.
Instead, in April, he was transferred to Istanbul where he was further sentenced to hard labour in Istanbul's docks.
Its Articles of Association in 23 paragraphs and notes were adopted by the then National Consultative Assembly of Iran.
Abu Mohamed, with the Sadrist trend, said he recently received an invitation from the Sadrists' leadership to discuss the shrine in Damascus.
The 7.4 Mw Manjil–Rudbar earthquake struck northern Iran with a maximum Mercalli intensity of X (Extreme), killing 35,000–50,000, and injuring 60,000–105,000.
Career and activities Following his return to Iran Amir-Alai worked at the Ministry of Post and then, at the Ministry of Justice.
As the main national regulatory body for healthcare professionals, IRIMC oversees doctors and other licensed health workers to ensure that they fulfil their legal duty to maintain professional competence.
Also Shahid Rajaee Teacher Training University and Farhangian University are the university of teacher education and human resource development in the Ministry of Education.
Amrica Shenasi: Farazo Froodeh Yek Empratori (Understanding America: The Rise and Decline of an Empire).
Bahman Group (Persian: گروه بهمن, Goruh-e Bahman) is an Iranian car manufacturer founded on February 5, 1953, by Iranian industrialist Amanollah Sarbaz.
The Ministry under his direction was particularly known for closing a number of reformist newspapers.
War on terrorism In December 2001 Michael Ledeen organized a three-day meeting in Rome, Italy between Manucher Ghorbanifar and US Defense Intelligence Agency officials Larry Franklin and Harold Rhode.
The Audit Organization of Iran (Persian: سازمان حسابرسی کشور) is one of the organizations affiliated with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance of Iran, which was established in 1987 by the Law on the Establishment of the Audit Organization.
This collaboration between Firouz’s expertise and Abdolreza’s political backing laid the foundation for the DOE’s formal establishment in 1971.
On 12 February 2006, he stated that "I believe the crimes committed by the Zionist regime are greater than the Holocaust.
Arrest and execution Elghanian was arrested in 1975 as part of Mohammad Reza Shah's attempts to eliminate corruption among major businesspeople.
Other data suggests one division was being organised in Sistan Baluchestan, presumably the 88th Armoured Division.
In 1996, Hojjateslam Mohammad Khatami was appointed as a member of High Council for Cultural Revolution by the supreme leader of Iran.
By 1978, sports in which South Africa remained a member of the IF while being excluded from the world championships included fencing, field hockey, rowing, and water-skiing.
In the Islamic Seminary, he took part in famous teachers' classes of Fiqh, Usool, Tafsir, and philosophy.
Government bills are submitted to the Islamic Consultative Assembly only after obtaining the approval of the Council of Ministers.
Of course, origin of this mapping organization and formation of surveying and cartography branches, was laid in 1921, and in the course of its evolution, it performed responsibilities in accordance with the needs, missions and organizational duties.
The Prophet and the Age of the Caliphates: The Islamic Near East from the 6th to the 11th Century (Second ed.).
According to Massoud Ali-Mohammadi's wife, Fashi's family was not present at the execution ceremony.
He had avoided events organised by his wife's family for fear of images of his face emerging on social media.
See also Iranian Women's Movement One Million Signatures campaign References External links Full Text of the Family Protection Law (1975) Archived 2010-06-12 at the Wayback Machine
He was elected as Sixty-Fifth mayor of Rasht by the Islamic City Council of Rasht on September 4, 2017.
Tehran City Council (Persian: انجمن شهر تهران, romanized: anjoman-e šahr-e teḥrān) was the directly elected city council of Tehran and the first such institution to convene in Iran, serving as a model for other city councils in the country.
International media outlets reported damage to civilian infrastructure, including Dubai International Airport and other prominent sites.
Battalion 054 Zafar consists of Companies 41 and 42, and its soldiers hold bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degrees.
On the third day, the organizers did not allow members of the WCP and BEWIAF into the building of the conference.
Non-state actors PDKI – In September 2016, PDKI released a statement that their return to militancy was motivated by Iran's nuclear deal.
History According to Ruben Safrastyan, because the Grey Wolves are subtle and often formally operate as cultural and sports organizations, information about them is scarce.
The trial spun into a political event pitting Ottoman/Sunni interests against Shiʻa/Persian interests – the Sunni clergy wanted Bastamí to be immediately executed, while the Shiʻa clergy insisted only on banishment, and Persian politicians requested his removal to Persia.
Units As the volume of the office's activities grew, the specialized and thematic units gradually took on a more tangible form, and various sub-branches such as "Women" and "Veterans" were added to them, or their activities were stopped after a period of time.
The full title of the Achaemenid rulers was Xšāyaθiya Xšāyaθiyānām, literally "King of Kings" in Old Persian, corresponding to Middle Persian Šâhân Šâh, and Modern Persian شاهنشاه (Šâhanšâh).
His brutal interrogator Rosewater is a colonel in the revolutionary guards from a traditional religious Isfahani family whose organizational name is "Javadi".
According to the organizers, 20% is a tipping point, after which the whole sector begins to irreversibly change.
However, the Iranian government is widely believed to have ordered the assassination as it had many similarities with other assassinations and assassination attempts on eastern Kurdish dissidents around the world at this time.
Career Behbahani was the head of the civil engineering department at Iran University of Science and Technology.
He began his primary education in his hometown and then completed his diploma in experimental sciences with the highest average in the county.
Assassination On 5 August 1981, five days after Hafte Tir bombing, Ayat was assassinated by People's Mujahedin of Iran in front of his house by two men who then escaped on motorcycles.
Recently, with the cooperation of the Iranian Broadcasting Corporation, some of these programs will be presented for television broadcast.
He noted that the CIA prevented him from releasing the names of the outside reviewers of the 2011 Iran estimate.
A GfK poll of American Jews conducted for the American Jewish Committee between 7 and 22 August found that American Jews narrowly favored the agreement with 50.6% approving and 47.2% disapproving.
He organised the International Conference to Review the Global Vision of the Holocaust, a conference involving Holocaust deniers, which took place in Tehran in 2006.
Dubbed a "perennial candidate", Rezaee ran as a conservative presidential candidate in the 2009 elections, coming third with 1.7 percent of the vote, behind winner Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and reformist runner-up Mir-Hossein Mousavi.
He was also the chairman of the Citizens' Rights Commission and the vice chairman of the Budget and Planning Commission.
Educational and Recreational Facilities Authorities claim the prison offers vocational training in 15 fields.
The amendment only says that the laws must not be against Islam, but not that the laws have to be Islamic.
The AEOI's headquarters are in the northern Amir Abad district in Tehran, but it has facilities throughout Iran.
According to reports, Iran had supplied drones to the SAF during the civil war, which were seen as helping shift the balance of power against the Rapid Support Forces (RSF).
Nonetheless, he did not inform al-Hajjaj of his colleagues' attempts to void his assignment, which would have led to their dismissals and possible executions.
Still, afraid to alienate possible allies, the Abbas didn't further escalate the situation and continued his attempts to re-enlist Portugal-Spain and other European powers in his fight against the Ottomans, but to no avail.
Both the UAE and Iran have maintained that they are trying to find a solution to this issue according to the rules of international law.
The Election Office (Persian: ستاد انتخابات کشور) is the body charged for implementation of election procedures in Iran and is subordinate to the Ministry of Interior.
See also List of members in the First Term of the Council of Experts List of members in the Second Term of the Council of Experts List of members in the Third Term of the Council of Experts == References ==
The total under negotiation was 16 billion DM of debt resulting from the Treaty of Versailles after World War I which had not been paid in the 1930s, but which Germany decided to repay to restore its reputation.
However, goods and services entering Iran's customs territory from FTZs will be subject to payment of VAT according to the law.
The transition of West Germany from a debtor to a creditor by the middle of the 1950s had an impact on Germany's economic growth as well.
The bank was incorporated as a policy bank, owned by the Iranian government, and provides financial and other conventional banking services to Iranian exporters and importers.
Canada The Canadian version of the COLREGs is provided by Transport Canada, which regulates Canadian vessels.
He is noted for being the author of an important treatise, which he completed in the summer of 1731, during the reign of king Tahmasp II, about the empire's organization, functions, titles and remuneration.
Hassan Rouhani Hassan Rouhani was elected as President of Iran in 2013 presidential election and took office on 3 August 2013.
During his time as premier, the Constitutional Revolution gradually intensified, driven by a combination of economic grievances, resentment toward foreign advisors, and broader calls for institutional change.
She then became one of the first group of women to be admitted to the University of Tehran, after its inauguration in 1936, becoming the first woman to complete a Ph.D.
His last assignment before retirement in 2000 was the Regional Representative for Central Africa and the UN Humanitarian Coordinator based in Democratic Republic of Congo during the wartime in late 1990s.
Career In 1959, Elghanian established Plasco, a plastics manufacturing factory in Tehran which later became the largest and most technologically advanced plastics manufacturer in Iran.
bare-headed) women in violation of compulsory hijab that, "if the state didn’t act, 'we will fire at will'".
On August 5, 2024, the group launched attacks on Al-Asad Airbase, Iraqi Forces subsequently arrested 5 people related to the attack, injuring 5 people.
Hasan Ali Mansur (Persian: حسن علی منصور‎; 13 April 1923 – 26 January 1965) was an Iranian politician who served as Prime Minister from 1964 to 1965.
As of November 2018, the convention had been ratified by 115 states representing 95 per cent of the gross tonnage of the world's merchant fleet.
Sharif-Emami entered into negotiations with Shariatmadari and National Front leader Karim Sanjabi to help organize future elections.
Architectural layout The foundations of the actual castle measure approximately 300 by 400 metres (980 ft × 1,310 ft).
The person is found in possession of more than five kilograms of prescription or industrial drugs for illegal use, or is a repeat offender possessing 5-20 kilograms of such drugs.
It is also responsible for censoring most of the internet in Iran, as serves as a bottleneck for the monitoring of all communications.
History Diplomatic relations between Iran (then known as Pahlavi Iran) and Sri Lanka (then known as Ceylon) began in 1961 via the Ceylonese embassy in Islamabad, which was the closest Ceylon had to a presence on Iranian soil until the opening of the Tehran embassy office in 1990.
He named General Ahmad Vossough as his deputy and renamed the ministry from 'War' to 'National Defence', cut the military budget by 15%, and vowed to only purchase defensive military equipment.
On the 1 February 2024, Albania suffered another round of cyberattacks from Iran, with the latest round of cyberattacks targeting INSTAT, Albania's statistical gathering apparatus.
Compounding Bahari's suffering was the guilt he felt not only over his pregnant fiancée alone in London, but also over the suffering of his 80+ year old widowed mother who lived alone and whose daughter had died five months earlier.
These groups include: BRICS Business Council, BRICS Think Tanks Council, BRICS Women's Business Alliance, BRICS Business Forum, and the BRICS Academic Forum.
See also Barakat Foundation Foundation for the Preservation and Publication of Sacred Defense Works and Values == References ==
Emergency Number and Calls In Tehran, 2019 data showed an average of 13,000 calls per day, with about 5,500 dispatches.
On 13 January 2001, the Islamic Revolutionary Court of Tehran sentenced him to four and a half years’ imprisonment.
According to Turkish media, Fatiha was notorious for his alleged involvement in drug trafficking, bribery, kidnapping and extrajudicial killings during the Assad regime.
The page includes weapons used by both the Islamic Republic of Iran Ground Forces and the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Ground Forces.
Regionally, Iran's foreign policy hardened in some areas; for instance, Tehran continued incremental breaches of the nuclear deal while also showcasing that U.S.
However, the Iranian attack was mainly intercepted either outside Israeli airspace or over the country itself.
Following the formation of the SCCR, it declared itself the highest body for making policies and decisions in connection with cultural, educational and research activities within the framework of the general policies of the system and considered its approvals indispensable.
Burns was reported to be "in the driver's seat" of the American negotiating team, even though it was officially being led by Kerry and Wendy Sherman.
Meanwhile, this missile has the capability of destroying low-speed flying targets; and that's due to the kind of Tondar guidance.
For example, it was alleged that Taslimi had been identified by a taxi driver, who had driven him from Nynäshamn to Stockholm the day after the murder.
The Technical Secretariat of the organization conducts inspections to ensure compliance of member states.
During the crisis, the Shah quickly appointed Mansur's friend, Amir-Abbas Hoveyda as the acting prime minister, in which role he continued for the next thirteen years.
During his youth, he fought the Pahlavi dynasty and was arrested, put in jail and sent to exile by the regime.
To this end, he first met with Ahmad Bani Ahmad and Karim Sanjabi and asked them to accept the Prime Minister of the government.
Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld characterized the meetings as insignificant, saying, "There wasn't anything there that was of substance or of value that needed to be pursued further." News reports also indicated that Ghorbanifar sought to be paid for the middleman role.
In 1806, he was appointed mostowfi ol-mamalek, given the title Amin ol-Dowleh, and his son, Abd ol-Hossein Khan Isfahani succeeded him as beglarbegi.
Mirza Bozorg died in 1237/1822 and was succeeded in the post of minister to the crown prince by his son, Mirza Bozorg.
In February 2023, Iran reported that had tripled its military products exports in 2022 while its self-sufficiency in military needs had reached 93%.
The device was unveiled in April 2020 by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), who claimed it was capable of remotely detecting COVID-19.
He was president of the Iran Aerospace Research Institute (ARI) since February 2009 before his appointment as the president of ISA.
The Iran Atmospheric Science and Meteorological Research Center or in brief ASMERC as a member of the World Meteorological Organization (WMO) is a research center is affiliated with the Iran Meteorological Organization and is a subset of the Ministry of Roads & Urban Development of Iran.
Air shows Iranian market In 2010, Iran's Defense Ministry said it will begin the production phase of a domestically manufactured medium-size passenger plane designed to carry up to 150 passengers.
The last elections to the council took place in 1976 and it was abolished in 1979 when the Iranian Revolution took place.
However, on 8 May 2019, Iran announced it would suspend implementation of some parts of the JCPOA, threatening further action in 60 days unless it received protection from US sanctions.
Subsequently, the city council elected his deputy mayor, Gholamreza Adaldoost, to the position of mayor.
1914–1916 The United Kingdom and Russia decided to invade Persia in 1914 at the outbreak of World War I.
Although the main function of English TV is to propagate the Islamic educations, the structure of the topics and genres of programs in English TV are varied.
In 615, during the Byzantine–Sasanian War of 602–628 with the Sasanian army under spahbod Shahin invaded Asia Minor and reached Chalcedon, across the Bosporus from Constantinople.
In 2017, SWP wrote that the Badr organization is one of "the most important actors in Iraqi politics".
The Red Lion and Sun Society (Persian: جمعیت شیر و خورشید سرخ ایران Jam'iyat Šir o Xoršid Sorx Irân) of Iran was established in 1922 and admitted to the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement in 1923.
Defense Secretary Leon Panetta stated that Iran was pursuing a nuclear weapons capability, but was not attempting to produce nuclear weapons.
Namazi's family is a part of the Bring Our Families Home campaign which advocates to bring home wrongful detainees and hostages.
The Research Center of Islamic legislative Assembly (Persian: مرکز پژوهش‌های مجلس شورای اسلامی) is the research arm of the Iranian parliament (Majlis).
Criticisms Some have criticized this theory as equivalent to complete pragmatism in political action.
Also the Muslim nation is obliged to support the "Umm al-Qura" in the face of a serious danger and try to save it.
See also Operation Claw-Eagle 2 Operations Claw-Lightning and Thunderbolt Operation Claw-Lock == References ==
Diplomatic and trade ties were severed and a land, sea and air blocked on Qatar were imposed in June 2017.
Ghorbanifar had owned a shipping company and headed the logistics branch of the Niqab network which organised the civilian part of the plot.
He was unsuccessful in the 2016 Iranian Assembly of Experts election, however, was elected in the midterm elections in 2020 replacing Nasrallah Shah-Abadi.
Job finding search engine In July 2023 it created a job search website for job seekers and employers it has classified ad, and a resume making, and sending system.
Tucker, in the period of 1980 to 1985, between 25,000 and 40,000 Iranians were arrested, 15,000 Iranians were tried and 8,000 to 9,500 Iranians were executed.
The bloodiest battles occurred in Kazerun in 1914 when several gendarmes died fighting under Josef Pousette (who had been injured fighting against insurgents in Tehran).
Additionally, it was permitted to form special groups of inspectors to investigate financial irregularities and was granted the right to temporarily suspend government officials from their positions.
Analysts noted that the episode “deepen[ed] the rift between the United States and Europe” and “undermine[d] the credibility of both the U.S.
While the president of Iran formally chairs the SNSC, the secretary is responsible for organizing its work, preparing policy proposals, and ensuring that decisions are implemented across the state apparatus.
He stayed there for around 20 years, before leaving to Qom to attend advanced classes in Islamic studies in Qom Seminary, as well as teach there.
He spent three weeks bargaining with the Shah over the composition of his cabinet, and presented his ministers to the parliament on 17 February, before his scheduled trip to Moscow, asking for postponement of the debates for vote of confidence until his return.
Sometime in 1385–87 Çandarlı Kara Halil Hayreddin Pasha succeeded him in the position of commander-in-chief in Rumelia.
The announcement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Gambia included no reason for the decision, but "sources close to the ministry" pointed to the seizure, in October, by Nigerian security forces of an Iranian weapons shipment headed to The Gambia.
A US Defense Department official said that its air defenses in Qatar intercepted 13 Iranian missiles, while another was allowed to crash harmlessly off-target.
The United Nations has repeatedly expressed concern over this practice in the reports of UN Secretary-General, in the reports of ILO, and so on.
United States Senators Bernie Sanders and Dianne Feinstein called on the Senate to delay a vote on imposing sanctions on Iran.
It became a completely independent organisation after the Mahdi Army's disbanding after the 2008 Shi'a uprising.
Perry–Castañeda Library collection DS 271 F34 1995 Mohammad Taghi Bahar, Taarikh-e Mokhtasar-e Ahzaab-e Siaasi-e Iraan (A Short History of Political Parties of Iran), Amirkabir, 1978.
The organization uncovered the involvement of a number of high-ranking officials in scams related to contract work and the trading of land plots for urban development.
Academic life He had a BS Bachelor of Science in construction engineering from Islamic Azad University Najaf Abad Branch and Artificial Intelligence and robotics from Tehran University.
During Hazhir's premiership in 1948 his policies were harshly criticized by Ayatollah Kashani who was one of the clerics close to the Fada'iyan-e Islam's leader Navvab Safavi.
This provision, which calls for temporarily placing a drug under federal drug control in the event the Convention requires it, was invoked in 1984 with Rohypnol (flunitrazepam).
Tehran, 2007 - The next summit was held in Tehran and ended with the signing of the Caspian Environment Convention.
This rank, like most imperial administration, was mostly patrimonial, and was passed down through a single family for generations.
Nuclear Fatwa Under International Law (Persian: فتوای هسته‌ای از منظر حقوق بین‌الملل) is a juridical book by Jaber Seyvanizad, published by Supreme Century in 2017.
Interests Section of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the United States United States Cultural Diplomacy in Iran References External links Old pictures of US Embassy in Tabriz
Finally, the Soviet forces evacuated Azerbaijan in June 1946, and on December 12, 1946, the government of the Azerbaijani Democratic Party was defeated and disintegrated in front of the Iranian army.
In his first act as president, Pezeshkian appointed Mohammad Reza Aref as the First Vice President and Mohsen Haji Mirzaei as Chief of Staff.
Legacy Among his Iranian contemporaries Amir Kabir received praise from several poets of the age, notably Sorush and Qaʾani, but his services to Iran remained generally unappreciated during the Qajar era.
But given the reality of the contemporary world, this theory can not explain the reality of the world of politics in the context of Islamic interests.
Also in the fossil vertebrate section, there are significant fossils from all Cambrian geological periods up to the present time.
For seven years, the 44-year-old disabled man had reported death threats and racial abuse from his neighbours.
The minister of foreign affairs of Iran (Persian: وزیر امور خارجه ایران, romanized: Vazir Amor Kharjeh Iran) is the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Iran and a member of the Cabinet.
He also represented the people in Khorasan province in the early 80's for the first term of the Islamic Consultative Assembly (Iranian Parliament).
MNA also participated in the Istanbul OANA General Assembly in November 2010 and the OANA 26th ETEG - 32nd EBM meetings in Ulaanbaatar in June 2011.
Following the end of the Pahlavi rule in Iran in 1979, he settled in Paris where he died in September 2005.
He was killed by the Taliban when they occupied the Iranian consulate in Mazar-i-Sharif, together with eight Iranian diplomats (see 1998 Iranian diplomats assassination in Afghanistan).
They were able to capture Tehran, depose the Shah in favour of his son, Ahmad Shah Qajar, and re-establish the constitution.
I guarantee that in future the government in Iran will be based on the Constitution, social justice, and the will of the people, and will be free from despotism, injustice, and corruption.
Life Seyyed Hashem Hosseini Bushehri was born in Bordkhun, locating around Bandar-e Deyr in Bushehr province.
As a result of the attack, the Iranian ambassador to Romania was urgently summoned at the Romanian ministry of foreign affairs at Bucharest.
Ahmed Shaheed, emphasized recent reports of the "on going harassment of those who continue to seek information about those who have disappeared or who seek justice or mourn for those who were executed".
The reason for his resignation was the increased demonstrations of religious establishment and the fire occurred in Cinema Rex in Abadan on 19 August.
Many government loyalists regarded the SDF which was supported by foreigners such as the United States Armed Forces as just another illegitimate occupier.
However, unlike the Pakistani Baloch militants/insurgents the Baluchi Autonomist Movement didn't have any military success of any sort.
At this point, Tabrizi was apparently still inexperienced about European travel; according to Hasan Javadi and Farrokh Gaffary, he would have otherwise "had some understanding of the structure and functioning of a theater, something clearly lacking in his plays".
General John Hyten, vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, stressed on the Qased satellite carrier technology, saying that "when you have a missile capable of going a very long way...
Controversies Although some critics have alleged that the treaty is responsible for the continuing death toll from malaria, in reality the treaty specifically permits the public health use of DDT for the control of mosquitoes (the malaria vector).
News that the Royal Navy was intercepting tankers carrying Iranian oil scared off other tankers and effectively shut down oil exports from Iran.
Ramin lived in Germany from 1971 to 1994, until he was deported, allegedly for having close ties and links with the far-right National Democratic Party of Germany.
While there is no prescribed punishment for Musahaqah, many authorities interpret it as both a sin and a criminal offence.
Islamic Republic of Iran After the 1979 Iranian Revolution and 15 days after the inauguration of the first president Abolhassan Banisadr in February 1980, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini delegated him as the Commander-in-Chief.
Killing According to Iran wire citing TRT journalist, Azari Jahromi, Iranian telecommunications minister had threatened him before he was killed.
The NDFI aims to turn some of the country's petrodollars to durable wealth, productivity, economic incentive and capital and to preserve the share of oil and gas resources and products for future generations.
As per WIPO's report titled "World Intellectual Property Indicators 2013", Iran ranked 90th for patents generated by Iranian nationals all over the world, 100th in industrial design and 82nd in trademarks, positioning Iran below Jordan and Venezuela in this regard but above Yemen and Jamaica.
Over a hundred Palestinians were killed or injured in the ensuing violence, but no Hamas targets were killed.
Among them were Ibn al-Muqaffa', who wrote of him fondly, the mawlā Abd al-Hamid ibn Yahya who considered Salih the greatest benefactor of the Umayyad-era scribes, and Qahdam, the Persian progenitor of several generations of scribes who were active during the early Abbasid Caliphate.
This process interrupted the education and professional livelihood of many, and led to the emigration of many teachers and students.
Since the first week of April 2020, the operation combines the Dutch frigate Ruyter, the French frigate Forbin, and one French airplane ATLANTIC2 (ATL2).
At the beginning of the Qajar era, with the expansion of the Qajar bureaucracy, Mostowfi ol-Mamalek became the second prime minister after the Shah.
Ghafourifard ran for Iranian presidential elections twice, and was defeated in both October 1981 and 2001 elections.
Meanwhile, the Persian army under the command of Abbas Mirza and his general of cavalry Mohammad Khan Khamsavi Afshar was expecting the Russian forces.
The United States, the second largest emitter, withdrew from the agreement in 2020, rejoined in 2021, and withdrew again in 2026.
The term of the cabinet ended in September 1960 following the general elections held in late August 1960.
Iraqi authorities stated that they had implemented all provisions of the deal; however, according to The New Arab, reports that Kurdish forces had been disarmed were inaccurate.
Senator Penny Wong stressed that Australia will continue to advocate for de-escalation, discussion, and diplomacy.
July 31, 2004: Iran states that it has resumed building nuclear centrifuges to enrich uranium, reversing a voluntary October 2003 pledge to Britain, France, and Germany to suspend all uranium enrichment-related activities.
He appointed Sepahbod Ahmad Amir-Ahmadi to restore order and end the riots, which he did forcefully.
Mostafa Salari (born 1976, Shabankareh) is an Iranian politician and jurist who currently serving CEO of the Social Security Organization since 2024 for second time.
It replaces the standard 30mm warhead with a high-explosive 40mm warhead with prefragmented steel warhead body.
The report said that Iran informed the agency that eight clusters of advanced IR-6 centrifuges had been installed at the site but not brought online.
He obtained his Ijtihad Certification from his teachers, Abu l-Hasan al-Isfahani and Abdul-Karim Ha'eri Yazdi, there.
2026 February 28: United States and Israel started a war with surprise airstrikes on sites and cities across Iran, assassinating Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and several other Iranian officials and inflicting thousands of civilian casualties.
Development cooperation In March 2023, Iran donated 200,000 doses of COVID-19 vaccines to Burkina Faso.
He was arrested again in 1971 for 6 months for continuously making anti-Shah speeches, he was banned from leaving the country or engaging in Islamic affairs.
The position of Commander-in-Chief (Persian: فرمانده کل قوا, romanized: Farmândeh-ye Kol-e Qova), formerly known as Bozorg Arteshtârân (Persian: بزرگ ارتشتاران, lit.
The term BRIC, as compared to the alternate term CRIB, was originally developed in the context of foreign investment strategies.
The retaliatory strikes were, according to an IRGC statement, sending a message to the terrorists and their networks of supporters after the bloodshed in Tehran.
This method and military invasion of the Islamic countries of the Third World is reminiscent of exploitative methods.
Similarly, the EU price of natural gas dropped 14 percent on June 24, as some of its LNG also comes through the Strait of Hormuz.
In 1991, the agency was restructured as an independent organization reporting to the Supreme Leader of Iran, mainly tasked with IRGC personnel surveillance and combating espionage inside the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
Budget accounts 2024–25 Iranian national budget 2022–23 Iranian national budget 2021–22 Iranian national budget History SCI was established in 1948.
History Foundation and early operations There are conflicting accounts on when and how the Baqir Brigade was founded.
In the non-governmental sector, they include telecommunications companies such as Omran Kish, Isfahan, Rafsanjan Complex and Irancell.
It has impacted international law, and the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, among others.
Most of Iran's gas is consumed domestically and has been increasing at an average annual rate of 12% for the past 15 years.
Speaking at a Tehran news conference, Zarif said the purpose of the talks with Kerry "is to see if we can speed up and push the negotiations forward".
Adaptations in media The events surrounding the Mykonos restaurant assassinations and subsequent trial were adapted into a non-fiction story by Roya Hakakian in her book Assassins of the Turquoise Palace in 2011.
Mansouri was a campaigner for the One Million Signatures and considered is among the pioneers of Iranian NGOs working for women's rights.
The electoral law of 9 September 1906 The electoral law of 9 September 1906 defined the regulations for the Elections to the Majlis.
Under the Elders Larestan County area of Mirza Mohammed Hassan Husseini Shirazi, requested they send a Mojtahed to take control of the Muslim community in Larestan County.
The first dent in the labour law came about with the introduction of temporary employment contracts that allowed employers to hire employees under a one-year contract with the ability to be reissued year after year after a settlement of the annual "end of services" benefit.
Following the service, government officials and military officers gathered outside to praise the virtues of a man who had served his country under four Qajar Shahs, and whose family had served the country for more than a century.
Publication of a specialized quarterly on Iranology, as well as compiling an annual or biennial national and international report on Iranian studies.
Ancient Iran Herodotus, the Greek historian said that after Cyrus and his sons, the Iranians formed a small assembly to determine the status of the government in their country, which Dariush succeeded in persuading to abandon democratic systems and continue the imperial system.
Following the US threat, in a letter to United Nations chief António Guterres, Mohammad Javad Zarif warned against "America's movements in deploying its navy to the Caribbean in order to intervene and create disruption in [the] transfer of Iran's fuel to Venezuela".
These organizations have different and complementary roles in Iranian Aerospace and Iranian civil aviation.
The sanctions included an asset freeze and were part of broader measures targeting Iran's human rights abuses and treatment of dual and foreign nationals.
The Ministry of Commerce of Iran was the main organ of the Government in charge of the regulation and implementation of policies applicable to domestic and foreign trade.
2 April 1297) — married to Baba Khatun (daughter of Hulagu) Terjughan Khatun — married to Öljaitü Hajji Tarkhan Hajji A daughter — married Fakhr al-Din ibn Rukn al-Din of Kartids (1295–1308) Yol Qutlugh Bulquq Oiratai Ertai Ghazan (d.
Its operations have included suicide bombings, attacks on Israeli civilians, as well as the firing of rockets into Israel, targeting civilians.
At Fordo, no enrichment will be permitted for 15 years, and the underground facility will be converted into a nuclear, physics and technology centre.
Hamid Reza Chitgar (7 July 1949 – 19 May 1987, also known as Hamid Bahmani) was an exiled Iranian communist politician who lived in France after the Iranian Revolution and was assassinated in Austria by the Iranian government.
He is considered a key member of the conservative alliance, and was considered a possible candidate for the post of the speaker or the leader of the conservative faction in the parliament.
About a month later, the body of another woman was found in similar circumstances, followed by a third victim in April, who was found strangled with her own headscarf near Qezel Hesar.
General branches Naval force branches Aerospace force branches See also Iranian Army Branch Insignia Iranian Police Branch Insignia Badges of honor in Iran == References ==
Depending on the state, musahaqah may be punished by fines, imprisonment (ranging from a term not exceeding three months to several years), whipping not exceeding six strokes, or some combination thereof.
Internet constellation The government has announced that there will be an internet satellite to combat Starlink.
This air-to-ground missile consists of 4 types, namely: Sattar-1, Sattar-2 Sattar-3, and Sattar-4 (as the project of Asr-67).
Iranian courts halted the execution of Shahla Jahed when the case of Sakineh Mohammadi Ashtiani became public.
In 2019, the government said that it had allocated $2.4 billion from NDFI towards small and medium enterprises.
External links "Biographies of personages of Iran in the 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries" (in Persian)
Liakhov led the force in shelling the Majles and executing several leaders of the Constitutional Movement on 23 June 1908.
The dispute finally ended following intervention by the Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Khomeini, who advised the president to accept Mousavi.
Rezaee founded the news website Tabnak, originally Baztab, in 2002 as a reaction to the proliferation of reformist websites.
Emami was chosen due to his family ties to the clergy, although he had a reputation of corruption during his previous premiership.
In 1975, it was officially registered in the name of the company to carry out agricultural operations to produce sugarcane and create related industries and products.
Nearby, in rural Khvar-i Ray, Toghril won a battle against Khwarazmian raiders, capturing five of their leaders, then he returned to Hamadan.
Personal life His tenure ended in 1921 shortly after the coup d'état of February 1921 and after Ahmad Shah Qajar’s return from Europe.
Energy Department officials said that if the Iranians attempted to conduct centrifuge test, uranium conversion, or other activities, contamination would be generated that is very difficult to conceal.
Emails revealed that €130,000 was offered for the murder of Motamed, though the identity of whoever offered the money has never been established.
For Iran's assistance in the Sri Lankan Civil War, Sri Lankan minister Wimal Weerawansa said that: "Iran has never let us down, even when many other countries in the world refused to back us.
These courts are responsible for adjudicating the crimes committed within the jurisdiction of each province.
The International Crisis Group called the deal "a triumph of nuclear diplomacy" and urged both the United States Congress and Iranian Majlis to approve it.
Protests Protests condemning the airstrikes were held in Duhok province but also in several countries in Europe.
He was one among several convicts to be executed across the country on this date, including a trio of child rapists in Evin.
Haft Tappeh sugarcane workers went on strike over three months for non-payment of workers' wages, non-renewal of social security and medical records, and uncertainty over their employment status.
Gallery See also Firman of Karamanoğlu Mehmet Bey Firman of Mahbub Ali Khan Waqf Decree of Muharram References Further reading Ashraf, Assef (2019).
Iran-Israel war On 13 April 2024, Iran for the first time fired missiles directly at Israel, Jordan's neighbour.
The case drew widespread condemnation from international human rights organizations despite his crime.
As an example of this, in April 2000 it removed from parliamentary capacity the faculty to investigate institutions under the control of the supreme leader, such as the Pasdaran and the Council of the Guardians.
The Chahartaq pavilion form runs through Iranian architecture from pre-Islamic times to the present.
History The squadron was initially formed in 1958 under the organizational chart of the Imperial Iranian Air Force at the Mehrabad 1st Tactical Air Base with RF-5A Freedom Fighter aircraft.
Prior to founding Jundallah, while a teenager, Rigi was convicted of assault with a knife, for which he served time in prison.
At the time of his death he was in his third year of studies in the field of dramatic arts at the Department of Cinema and Theater at the University of Arts, Tehran.
Demographic transformations and Shiization In 2016, Hussain Ibrahim Qutrib, an associate professor of geomorphology at the King Faisal Center for Research and Islamic Studies, wrote an article about the demographic changes that have occurred in "Useful Syria" as a result of the Syrian Civil War.
WikiLeaks explained that in the published document, there is no mention of Israel and participation in the assassination of Iranian scientists.
However, days prior to his execution, he suddenly changed his stance and said that he had only moved the bodies, pinning all of the killings on his wife with the excuse that he was only trying to protect her.
Hassan Rouhani was the seventh President of Iran which governed during his second term within the twelfth government of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
The Iranian authorities initially advertised this card as a means of secure participation in elections that guarantees voting integrity.
By using shadow vessels, that are old and poorly maintained, it would be difficult to determine if an accident were intentional, a hallmark of hybrid warfare.
On the other hand, many countries viewed the episode as a victory for multilateralism and the rule of law, since the council's majority will prevailed over unilateralism.
James subsequently attacked Ebrahimi, and told his neighbours that he believed Ebrahimi to be a paedophile.
Qutrib points out that, at the end of 2011, the demographics of "Useful Syria" were 69% Sunni, 21% Alawite (which is an offshoot of Shi'a Islam), 1% Shi'a, 1% Druze, 2% Ismaili, and 6% Christian.
The nations conducted little diplomacy with one another, though Burundi imported crude oil in the private sector in the following decades.
The difference between the modern Persian and Old Persian forms stems from "dropping the ending ā and insertion of a vowel owing to the initial double consonant".
Privatization and IPO Privatization Organization has forecast that shares of Telecommunication Company of Iran (TCI) will be floated in the stock market by late September 2007.
(Persian: فهرست نمایندگان دوره ششم مجلس خبرگان رهبری, romanized: Fehreste nâmâyandegân dore shishom majles-e khobregân-e rahbari) consists of names of the members during the sixth term of the Assembly of Experts from 21 May 2024 until 2032.
Iran Aircraft Manufacturing Industrial Company (HESA), (Persian: شرکت صنایع هواپیماسازی ایران – هسا) or Iran Aircraft Manufacturing Industries Corporation, is an Iranian aircraft production company.
Juan Cole, a professor of modern Middle Eastern and South Asian history at the University of Michigan, has argued that Ahmadinejad was not calling for the destruction of Israel, "Ahmadinejad did not say he was going to wipe Israel off the map because no such idiom exists in Persian".
Zahra Shojaie, along with Masoumeh Ebtekar, participated in the first cabinet since the Islamic Revolution to include women.
In the aftermath of the video leak, a Clubhouse discussion of political commentators and veterans of the Iran-Iraq War demanded his full resignation and a public apology.
The Swedish volunteers in Persia were a small group of military officers active in Persia between 1911 and 1916.
Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei claimed that the virus was genetically targeted at Iranians by the US, and this is why it is seriously affecting Iran.
Preparing and presenting the necessary plans for the reconstruction and renovation of rural residential areas damaged by war, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters and their implementation with the participation of the people and coordination with relevant organizations and agencies.
The June 2009 election was reported as a victory for Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, the incumbent candidate, although this is greatly disputed by supporters of rival candidates, who noted the statistical anomalies in voting reports and large-scale overvoting in the officially announced tallies.
Their identity was maintained through family lineage, shared origins in Khorasan, and continued service to the Abbasid state.
International reactions Iran – Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi denied that his government of having any involvement in the attacks while labelling Albanese as a "weak politician".
The Iraq Body Count reviewed the war logs data in three reports in October 2010 and concluded that the total recorded death toll, civilian and combatant, would be more than 150,000.
As time went by Germany's exports increased significantly, making fulfilment of payments a lot easier and reducing their negative effects on the economy.
The geographic proximity of the two coastlines, separated by approximately 50 km (31 mi) at the strait's narrowest points, allows for the rapid transit of small, high-powered speedboats operated by smugglers.
Michael Creed, another brother of Coty Beavers, said "You don't have to be Muslim to be a victim of an honor crime.
On 13 May, he dismissed Masoud Mir-Kazemi (Minister of Petroleum), Ali Akbar Mehrabian (Minister Industry and Mines) and Sadegh Mahsouli (Minister of Welfare).
After the Islamic Revolution and continuing his political career, he was sent to prison in Mashhad and was eventually released after months.
IRIB removed the poll and replaced it with one asking about Iranians' opinions on the Iranian parliament's proposal to close the Strait of Hormuz in response to the European Union oil embargo.
By September 2005 the group was alleged to be responsible for the death of at least 11 British soldiers.
In 1985, the head of military intelligence informed the press that the bombing had been the work of royalist army officers.
It has failed to ratify the two basic onventions of the International Labour Organization on freedom of association and collective bargaining, and on the abolition of child labour.
Countries that had supported differentiation of targets had different ideas as to how it should be calculated, and many different indicators were proposed.
He is fond of swimming and usually wears shenandoah beard, collarless tuxedos and dark calottes that serve as his signature look.
According to a letter he wrote in 1871 to the well-known Mirza Fath-Ali Akhundzadeh (died 1878)—who was the source of inspiration for his comedies—Tabrizi states that he was born in Tabriz in northwestern Qajar Iran to a certain Mirza Agha Mehdi Monshi-Bashi.
Alleged dissolution The Prosecutor-General of Iran, Mohammad Jafar Montazeri, stated in Qom on 3 December 2022 that the police Guidance Patrol is not under the supervision of the judiciary system and was in the process of being disbanded.
This plenary meeting requested the secretary general to transmit the draft convention to the Commission on Human Rights.
In January 1994, Hedayati was seriously wounded after opening a letter bomb in his apartment in Bagarmossen, Stockholm, Sweden.
Cabinet members References Further reading "IAEA's Grossi congratulates Pezeshkian on victory in Iran's election".
In recent years, the National Geographical Organization of Iran has been able to change the aerial photography system to take the first digital aerial photography with new systems (ULTRA CAM D digital cameras) and done digital aerial photography projects for many cities of Iran.
On 16 April, Israel, the United States, the Netherlands and other countries called on the international community to impose sanctions on Iran's missile program.
Over the following decades both empires became entangled in each other's civil wars, perhaps beginning with Crassus’s disastrous invasion of Parthia.
Beginning in 1973, the Shah faced increasing tensions with Western nations after announcing he would not renew the consortium agreement upon its expiration and planned to nationalize Iranian oil in 1979.
List of chiefs Timeline List of deputy chiefs Timeline See also Joint Staff of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Joint Staff of the Islamic Republic of Iran Army == References ==
The Iranian Department of Environment (Persian: سازمان حفاظت محیط زیست) is a governmental organization under the supervision of the president.
However, by the end of the 1930s the solution of this question was beyond the competence of politicians on the Republican level.
Party policies Statistics Results by province See also Iranian Islamic Republic Day 1979 Iranian constitutional referendum References External links "Sadeq Tabatabaei shows voters how to cast their ballot in Islamic Republic referendum" (YouTube Video)
He was later linked to the attempted assassination of former EU lawmaker Alejo Vidal-Quadras in Madrid in November 2023.
Zarif further requested that the Trump administration "prove its seriousness" before any negotiations.
It was established in 1995, and its main responsibility is in the field of cultural activities (outside of Iran).
In 1937, Oveissi married Sharafat Baniadam, the daughter of Sharif Doleh Baniadam, and granddaughter of Sharif Doleh Bozorg.
Liwa Assad Allah al-Ghalib fi al-Iraq wa al-Sham was part of Liwa Abu al-Fadhal al-Abbas until 2017, when it became a part of Liwa'a Zulfiqar.
The Act was published in the official newspapers of Iran on Saturday, January 17, 2009 and was implemented by the relevant agencies on Monday, February 2, 2009.
It was formed by the merger of the Ministry of Culture and Art and the Ministry of Information and Tourism.
The American Israel Public Affairs Committee reacted skeptically to the agreement and urged preparation of sanctions legislation in Congress in case it failed, but fell short of calling for new sanctions immediately.
Later, with Tash Farrash busy at Isfahan, and Mas'ud dealing with a rebellion in India, the survivors of these Oghuz headed for Ray.
The Minister of Culture and Islamic Guidance is "the real member of the General Culture Council and the managing director and editor of some of the country's scientific and cultural publications", also controlling the IRNA news agency.
He was appointed the temporary chief of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps following the death of former commander-in-chief Hossein Salami during the June 2025 Israeli strikes on Iran.
Other messages Since becoming the supreme leader of Iran in 1989, Khamenei issued annual messages on the occasion of Hajj for all Muslims (pilgrims).
The continuation and determination of the hostage takers, but also of the long wait for the rescue of the hostages left many Americans wondering and shocked.
The committee must report to the Islamic Consultative Assembly every six months on the progress made.
Iran denies that it was involved, while Argentine prosecutors accuse him of involvement in planning and executing the attack.
He "had no jurisdiction to hear cases—only to settle disputes and breaches of the law where the facts were admitted or there was a confession of guilt." General term Hisbah as a "general term for 'forbidding wrong'" has a later origin, and the difference in the terms has caused some confusion.
Issues included the division of the Caspian Sea into national sections, construction of pipelines across the seabed, and the navigational situation.
Ships that comply with the convention will receive and are duly required to carry an international ballast water management certificate.
The beylerbey of Rumelia, however, retained his pre-eminence, ranking first among the other provincial governors-general, and being accorded a seat in the Imperial Council (divan) after 1536.
The footage depicted three masked militia members beating and threatening Syrians, accusing them of supporting HTS.
Reception Criticism of processes The overall umbrella and processes of the UNFCCC and the adopted Kyoto Protocol have been criticized by some as not having achieved their stated goals of reducing the emission of greenhouse gases.
Additionally, this hovercraft is designed to traverse challenging terrains such as marshy areas, sand, reed beds, and shallow flooded surfaces, as well as to navigate through shallow mined zones without requiring coastal equipment.
The height of the entire structure, including the hill, reaches up to 40 meters above the surrounding area.
The International Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage (BUNKER) is an International treaty listed and administered by the International Maritime Organization, signed in London on 23 March 2001 and in force generally on 21 November 2008.
Career As chief executive of the official Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA), Javanfekr was reportedly "one of the most powerful figures in publicizing Iran's government policies and messages to the outside world".
He believed in literal interpretation of Quran, hadith, and sunnah and has argued that there is "no substitute" for stoning adulterers.
Canada's foreign ministry condemned the killing of protesters and the use of violence after a video emerged showing a car running over protesters.
However, later in 2017 following the Khan Shaykhun chemical attack in Syria, Muqtada al-Sadr called for Syria's president Bashar al-Assad to step down from power.
The Sayyad AFV is an Iranian light, multi-purpose, tracked armored vehicle, sometimes described as a "quick reaction tank".
This is an article introducing the board of directors of the Iranian parliament and legislative system of the Islamic Republic of Iran called the Islamic Consultative Assembly.
She was disqualified for the 2008 Iranian legislative election and arrested following the post-election protests in 2009.
Fair enough." He added that if returned to Iran they would "shoot him as soon as he got off the plane." Nejad lives in south London with a new identity.
While the economic boycotts and material restriction are still in place, a step-by-step reduction of these embargoes by the EU will likely be implemented.
He married Zohreh Sadeghi, the daughter of a professor of religious law, and niece of Musa al-Sadr, in 1974 (at the age of 31).
The visit came amidst concern from the United States, Israel, and a section of the March 14 alliance such as Samir Geagea.
"The Consequences of a Strike on Iran: The Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps Navy" Global Bearings, 15 December 2011.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement had arrested 130 and detained 670 Iranian nationals throughout the country amid heightened security concerns over Iranian sleeper cell activity and potential retaliatory terror attacks in response to the strikes.
Gholam-Hossein Elham (Persian: غلامحسین الهام, born 1959) is an Iranian conservative and principlist politician who held several posts during the term of the former President Mahmoud Ahmedinejad.
His death was considered by many as the blow that dealt the most setback to opposition groups poised to overthrow the revolutionary regime in Tehran.
After the formation of General Bureau of Roads in 1922, it was renamed as Ministry of Ways by a Parliamentary law in 1929.
For example, in September 2023, the United States granted Iran access to nearly $6 billion of frozen assets in South Korea as part of a prisoner exchange.
During the era of Taliban, she was part of the group to establish literacy and science courses for girls and women in provinces such as Nangarhar, Laghman, Farah and Herat.
However, it is not known whether Larijani supported Mothhari's "neither right nor left" Islamic socialism.
Both Rashid Rida and Ali ibn Hajj quote approvingly Al-Ghazali's view that Muslims do not need a ruler's approval to form armed bands to combat wrongdoing, Rashid maintaining Al-Ghazali's doctrine "should be written in letters of gold" and memorized by da‘wāt preachers.
On January 26, 2025, The Islamic Resistance Front in Syria claimed responsibility for taking down a drone belonging to the Israel Defense Force in Southern Syria in their first official operation against them.
One member of the board of trustees is elected by the President as the President of the Foundation for a term of four years.
Public courts consist of Civil (205), Special Civil (99), First class criminal (86) and Second Class Criminal (156).
Reports indicate that at least one pregnant woman suffered a miscarriage due to injuries sustained during the raid, underlining the indiscriminate and violent nature of the operation.
Nejad said that he'd refused to shoot a hostage when directed and was told by Towfigh that he would be shot as a result.
Multiple medical officials and detainees who witnessed her arrest claim that Guidance Patrol officials tortured her in the back of a van before arriving at the station.
Although the location of the library has been changed many times over years, it has always remained in the vicinity of the Holy Shrine.
For example, conferences organized by Imam Hossein University have addressed themes such as the "decline of the United States", combining academic references with ideological perspectives.
His father was Mohammad Kazem Sabouri, the Poet Laureate of the shrine in Mashhad who held the honorific title of Malek o-Sho'arā ("King of Poets"), while his mother was a devout woman named Hajjiyeh Sakineh Khanum.
Ghafourifard held government portfolios in the 1980s, before being appointed to the Physical Education Organization under president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani.
The Shah's offer to the Prime Minister to Siddiqui and Baqaei failed because they both made the acceptance of the Shah's offer conditional on Mohammad Reza Pahlavi remaining in Iran but not in Tehran.
In 2019, he made municipality of Isfahan to deny women access to bicycles legally shutting down two city bicycle stations.
In November 2024, SATRA shutdown the interview talk show Aknoon produced by TV celebrity Soroush Sehhat.
On May 22, 1844, Mullá Husayn became the first Shaykhí to accept a Shirazi merchant named Siyyid ʿAli Muhammad as the Mahdi predicted in Islamic eschatology; Bastámí reportedly converted rapidly after hearing some verses of the Qayyúmu'l-Asmáʼ written by Ali Muhammad.
The prison has 14 wards, with those convicted of serious crimes such as murder, armed robbery, and first-degree kidnapping typically held in Wards 10 and 11, officially named "Hemat Ward" and "Neshat Ward," considered among the most notorious within the facility.
Amid the post-revolution chaos, the government with its many rival factions initially refused to release Elghanian's body to his family for burial.
No restrictions on Iran's acquisition of peaceful nuclear technology and know-how or research and development, and must be in compliance with Supreme National Security Council policies.
According to a historical article by the Brookings Institution, "both sides engaged in conspiracies and plots to subvert the other".
While Lula opposed additional international economic sanctions against Iran, of the 85% of Brazilians who opposed Iran acquiring nuclear weapons, two-thirds approved of tighter international sanctions on Iran to try to prevent it from developing nuclear weapons.
The term hardliners that some Western sources use in the Iranian political context usually refers to the faction.
On 31 March 2026, Hatami and four other prisoners were transferred to the solitary confinement ward of Qezelhesar Prison.
In 2024, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), at the direction of the Iranian government, allegedly organised and carried out at least two terrorist attacks within Australia.
Vahidi is subject to sanctions imposed by the United States and the European Union on allegations of involvement in terrorism and nuclear proliferation activities.
He was the representative of the Labor Party in the National Resistance Council and was a member of the council before his assassination.
The Mykonos restaurant assassinations (alongside the 1994 AMIA bombing) are attributed to Majid Javadi in the first episode of the third season of the 2011 American TV show Homeland.
Ideology Arafi presents Islam, specifically Shi'a Islam, as possessing a comprehensive intellectual and civilizational framework capable of responding to modern Western philosophical, cultural, and political thought.
See also Islamic Republic of Iran Armed Forces Defense industry of Iran List of equipment of the Iranian Army == References ==
Formal language of these offices were changed to Persian again in the Seljuq dynasty period by the order of Amid al-Mulk Kunduri, Minister of Tughril.
Area The group primarily operated in, and recruited from, Eastern Syria primarily around the Euphrates river.
2026 Iran war During the Sinking of IRIS Dena, a total of thirty-two survivors were rescued by the Sri Lanka Navy.
·Iranian officials later admitted that they approved live fire against civilian protesters, at the order of Fazli.
It was first established after the decision of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad for terminating the Plan and Budget Organization (PBO) in 2007.
One of the most influential political-noble families of Iran in the Qajar era named Mostowfian Ashtiani family took their name from this title.
Stoning was temporarily blocked as legal punishment by Supreme Leader Ruhollah Khomeini's order in 1981.
Mohammad Hossein was not universally praised, Rostam al-Hokama considered him an "uneducated parvenu" and claimed that Mohammad Hossein and his brothers had stolen the possessions and royal insignia of Jafar Khan Zand when Zand fled to Shiraz in 1785.
Ebrahimi called the police who arrived to find a homicidally enraged James, but decided to instead arrest Ebrahimi because they found him difficult.
He served as government spokesperson during the first term of the former President Mahmoud Ahmedinejad.
2, 2019, Tehran announced the successful test of the Hoveizeh cruise missile with a range of more than 1,350 kilometers (838 miles) during celebrations marking the 40th anniversary of the 1979 Revolution.
They did not need to do these kind of actions." His arrest "appears" to be as a result of the court ruling, but according to The New York Times, may be in retaliation for an interview given by Javanfekr to the reformist newspaper Etemad, on 19 November, "in which he disparaged" some of Pres.
While many in Brazil were infuriated by these actions, the Iranian Embassy in Brazil stated that "the accusation leveled against the Iranian diplomat is only a misunderstanding arising from differences in cultural attitudes”.
Case and sentencing Jahed had been living with Nasser Mohammadkhani, an Iranian footballer becoming his mistress in a temporary marriage.
In 1991 Reyshahri was appointed "Representative on Hajj and Pilgrimage Affairs" by Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei placing him in charge of the new "Organization for Hajj and Pilgrimage".
Also, the unit's recent book series, such as "Last Sunday," "Gol Simin," and "Da," are notable for their different methods and content.
'National Defense University and Institute for Strategic Research'), acronymed DĀʿĀ (Persian: داعا), is an Iranian university located in Tehran.
Additionally, Norway entered its highest terror alert level, although the Norwegian Police Security Service had "no indication" further attacks were likely to happen.
It also leaves room for possible future development of standards for handling, packaging, transport and identification of LMOs by the meeting of the Parties to the Protocol.
Imam Khomeini Naval University of Noshahr is the military academy of Islamic Republic of Iran Navy located in Noshahr, Mazandaran Province.
Some Iranian sources later accused Ghorbanifar of leaking information to the Iranian government which helped thwart the coup plot.
This independent entity was thereafter separate from the office responsible for endowments and charity, with Iranian law stating that "all of the Hajj's cultural, political, and outreach issues are under the exclusive authority of the Supreme Leader's Representative".
The Network for Public Policy Studies (NPPS) or Shams is an academic peer-reviewed website, under the supervision of Center for Strategic Studies, dedicated to the study of public policies with an emphasis on Iranian Government's policies.
Ali Dashti Mahmoud Hessabi Mohsen Sadr Jafar Sharif-Emami Hassan Taqizadeh References Eurobuch website, visiter 2017 Tarikh Irani website, visited 2017 website of the Institute of Contemporary History of Iran Studies, visited 2017
Duties Functions of Minister have largely been moved to Supreme Leader's Supreme Strategic Council for foreign relations.
In Malaysia, musahaqah is considered a criminal offence by 12 states and the Federal Territory (Pahang is the only state which does not prosecute musahaqah).
Reports revealed that senior IRGC officials ordered the transfer of many of these Adfghan workers from Chabahar to Negur, after such practices were exposed.
On October 17, 2016, Iranian authorities sentenced Baquer and Siamak to ten years in prison for "collusion with an enemy state," in reference to the United States.
On 16 September, journalist Niloofar Hamedi (later arrested) broke the story of her coma, posting to Twitter a photo of Amini's father and grandmother crying and embracing in the hospital hallway.
Eshkevari states that the court acts very much like an inquisitional court of medieval times,—meeting in secret, doing without juries, wielding arbitrary powers, dealing severely with opponents of the ruler who may be too powerful for ordinary laws.
an obligation of all believers described above), or collective duty (an obligation where once a sufficient number of Muslims undertake it, others cease to be obligated).
Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization Agricultural Research, Education and Extension Organization (AREEO) was established by the Act of National Consultative Assembly on June 30, 1974.
A 2018 study of burial sites at Teppe Hasanlu found that around 20% of the tombs did not conform to a binary gender-divided distribution of artifacts or showed signs of the buried having performed masculine roles while wearing feminine dressing (or vice-versa).
As defence minister, Vahidi prioritized strengthening Lebanon's army as one of Iran's strategic objectives.
Career Fazli served in different positions, including as the head of the planning department, member of parliament, deputy chairman of Iranian National TV and Radio, and deputy head of economic and international affairs at the Ministry of Interior.
Sanctions In May 2020, the United States Department of State sanctioned Fazli due to his alleged role in the 2019 Iranian protests and for committing human rights abuses against the Iranian people.
The cabinet headed by Mahmoud Ahmadinejad from 2005 to 2009 included the following members: Cabinet == References ==
The Coalition welcomed Al Wefaq and other opposition societies decision to boycott the parliamentary by-election to fill their seats and called them to stick to the basics of the revolution.
Truth Commission The Truth Commission constituted the investigative part of the Tribunal and was held in Amnesty International headquarters in London between 18 and 22 June 2012.
Assassination According to a close source, a man named Ali Amiztab corresponded with Chitgar from Iran a couple of years before his murder and established a regular contact with him.
He expressed deep concern over the non-adherence of industrial states to their commitments to control the emission of greenhouse gases.
See also List of current ships of the Islamic Republic of Iran Navy List of military equipment manufactured in Iran == References ==
Regardless of the United States efforts to resolve the conflict through these judicial and political means, the judgement and findings of the Court were not met nor enforceable.
Kazemi asked Mehdi Bakeri to become his deputy, after which units from Azarbaijan Province and Zanjan province also joined the unit.
This ministry was formed on 27 June 2011, when the two ministries of Housing and Urban Development and Roads and Transportation were merged.
The two countries also stated they will expand cooperation in areas of the sugar industry, fishery, biotechnology, sports, transportation, development projects, investment, tourism, information technology and communications and water resources.
List of commanders-in-chief Timeline See also Islamic Republic of Iran Army List of commanders of the Islamic Republic of Iran Army Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps List of commanders of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Notes == References ==
Former President of Cuba Fidel Castro spoke admiringly of Iran, "increasing its ability to fight big powers by the day." In June 2025, the United States bombed three nuclear sites in Iran.
Reyshahri executed Hashemi two days ahead of schedule on 28 September 1987, so that Reyshahri would not need to follow a letter written by Ayatollah Khomeini on 28 September in which he informed Reyshahri that the sentence had been commuted to internal exile.
At the same time, all agricultural properties in the country were audited and court offices were set up to register taxes.
They were offered up to Rs.120,000 ($1200) as a monthly salary with 15 days of holidays after three months.
About two days later, authorities found the body of a 24-year-old woman in Kamal Shahr, who had recently been declared missing after failing to return home from shopping.
The referendum was in direct contravention of the then Constitution of Iran which normally reserved the power to dissolve parliament to the Shah.
It appears to be an AGM-65 Maverick air-to-ground missile with a semi-active laser (SAL) seeker fitted to its nose.
The Student Organization of Iran (Persian: سازمان دانش آموزی) is a non-governmental organization affiliated to the Ministry of Education of Iran.
According to later interviews, Barak claimed that his parents fought so often that they rarely paid attention to either him or his siblings.
Events Sharafkandi, Abdoli, Ardalan and Dehkordi were murdered in a mafia-style attack at the Mykonos Greek restaurant located on Prager Straße in Berlin at about 11 pm on 17 September 1992.
Estimates of Hezbollah's overall number of rockets vary, but high end estimates are around 150,000 thousand rockets.
Fazli resigned from the post in November 2007 one month after the appointment of Saeed Jalili as the head of the council.
In particular, the use of the organotin tributyltin is prohibited, since leaching of that chemical from the hulls of ships has been shown to cause deformations in oysters and sex changes in whelks.
It was eventually expanded to a division on 7 February 1983, with three infantry brigades and one armored battalion.
The perpetrator was found to be Seyyed Hossein Emami Esfahani, a member of Fada'iyan-e Islam, an Islamist militant organization led by Navvab Safavi.
Article 15 The financial burden caused by the implementation of the provisions of this law is provided from the savings of the bodies subject to this law.
Taqizadeh, The Persian 'Mar Nameh': The Zoroasterian 'Book of the Snake', Omens and Calendar and The Old Iranian Calendar (Twin Serpents, Oxford, 2006).
Within the Iranian military, various flags fly on various occasions, and on various ships, bases, camps, and military academies.
Mohammad Jorjandi, has published multiple evidence regarding details of Molavi's fraud, forgery, and malicious activities, on his Telegram Channel and website called "Webamooz"; which conducts investigative journalism on fraud & cybercriminals.
He witnessed the massacre of protesting Khūzestān Arabs on 30 May 1979 (known locally as "Black Wednesday") by the Iranian Revolutionary Guards.
Historical composition Qajar Iran Pahlavi Iran Reza Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi Notes and references Afary, Janet.
Seeking to find a cause to have him arrested, Ibn Hubayra charged a bureaucrat from Anbar with scouring the budget records to find any violations that Salih may have committed.
The tradition of aircraft-based air defense, derived from the US-trained Air Force from before the 1979 Iranian revolution, was giving way to an expanding arsenal of ground-based air defense missile systems.
Initially no leads were announced, and Crime Stoppers stated that there was a $250,000 reward for information that could solve the case.
Fath-Ali Shah arrived in Shiraz on December 29 and was greeted with a large number of ordinary people, thunder-like gun salutes, scientists, dignitaries, noblemen, elites, and seniors.
The non-governmental sector includes companies such as Iraphone, Novin, Zahi Kish, Kouh-e Nour, Montazeran Adlgostar and Pouya Ertebat with each having hundreds of thousands of subscribers.
Ali Tehrani (born Ali Moradkhani Arangeh, Persian: علی مرادخانی ارنگه; 25 April 1926 – 19 October 2022) was an Iranian Shia Islamic theologian and writer.
Role in Syria Combat support The Hashemiyoun Brigade was formed with Iranian support to primarily combat the influence of the Islamic State and the Syrian Democratic Forces in Eastern Syria, using Shia tribal fighters from the local region.
Following discussions with Iranian authorities through the Embassy of Iran in Colombo, and in consideration of the potential risk of a further United States attack, the Government of Sri Lanka authorized the Sri Lanka Navy to intern the vessel along with its crew, numbering 208 personnel.
On the other hand, scholars have been critical of the focus on maritime enforcement rather than the more extensive use of financial tools targeted at individuals and companies supporting the North Korean regime.
In February 1968 a trade pact between two countries was signed in Tehran of which signatories were Gheorghe Cioară, Romanian minister of foreign trade, and Alinaghi Alikhani, Iranian minister of economy.
According to Mazhari, 40 percent of these questions related to people's anxiety about COVID-19, and 40 percent were for increasing the awareness regarding the novel virus.
Security Council, was "in violation of resolution 2231" because the missiles were all category I systems under the Missile Technology Control and not capable of carrying nuclear warheads.
These included exploration, development, investment, production, refining, and the transport of crude oil, gas, and petroleum products.
Specifically, Naraghi led the research and procurement efforts centered at the Tehran Nuclear Research Center.
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad nominated Namjoo as minister of energy in August 2009 and he was approved by the Majlis as the minister with 210 out of 290 votes.
See also Titles & Emoluments in Safavid Iran: A Third Manual of Safavid Administration Sources Floor, Willem M.
a Heraclius sent a separate letter to Shahin, stating his willingness to accept whoever was appointed by the Sasanians as the ruler of Byzantium.
Toloo 3 satellite is Iran's first miniature satellite, capable of taking black-and-white photos with a 5-meter spatial resolution and colored photos with a 10-meter resolution.
Mohsen Kouhkan The list of Iran's parliament representatives (8th term) (Persian: فهرست نمایندگان دوره هشتم مجلس شورای اسلامی) is a list of all members of the 8th Islamic Consultative Assembly of Iran plus the names of their constituencies, provinces, and political factions.
Extrajudicial killings In the 1990s there were a number of unsolved murders and disappearances of intellectuals and political activists who had been critical of the Islamic Republic system in some way.
Background As part of the 2013–2015 peace talks, the Kurdistan Workers' Party agreed to move most of its fighters to the mountains in Iraqi Kurdistan.
He was member of Parliament of Iran in first assembly after the Iranian Revolution and also member of Assembly of Experts for Constitution.
See also Al Wefaq National Islamic Society April 6 Youth Movement List of political parties in Bahrain == References ==
and the Security Council Should Be Closed The English Are the Father of the Great Satan Excerpts from a Friday sermon at Tehran University, Feb.
Prime Minister Ahmad Qavam formed a short-lived coalition government on 1 August 1946 with his Democrat Party of Iran and the left-wing Tudeh Party and Iran Party.
The pattern of revolutionary foundations mimics the style of informal and extralegal economic networks from the time of the Shah.
In December 1985 Adnan Khashoggi said in an interview that Ghorbanifar was head of European intelligence under Mir-Hossein Mousavi (Prime Minister from 1981).
He continued to take courses in ijtihad outside jurisprudence and principles, first with his professors in Tehran and then in Qom.
Career Namjoo was a member of Kerman city Council from 2001 to 2008 and became deputy minister of energy in February 2008.
The capture of Baghdad by the Ottoman Empire in 1534 gave Turkey access to the Indian Ocean via the port of Basra at the head of the Persian Gulf.
Canada: In 2021, one month after the start of the Mahsa Amini protests in Iran, the Canadian government sanctioned Mohammad Karami on charges of "gross human rights violations." Previously, the United States of America had placed him on its sanctions list.
The book provided a detailed examination of the question of Nizami's identity and the process of his politicization which received a positive criticism from a number of famous Orientalists.
The campaign was aimed at pressuring Iran to renegotiate the JCPOA, adding more restrictions on Iran's nuclear program and expanding the scope of the agreement to cover Iran's ballistic missiles as well as other regional activities.
Reactions Amnesty International expressed outrage at what it described as "the arbitrary execution of a teenage protester" calling his trial "grossly unfair".
State media reported that one member of the government security forces was shot and killed during protests on 1 January.
According to a former Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) commander, the IRGC sent 400 of its fighters to Bosnia during the war to train Bosnian mujahideen fighters.
As such, Shia Muslims following other maraji (highest Shia clerical rank) who disagree with the ruling are not obliged to treat it as binding and may even act against it.
Army's General Stanley McChrystal describes the Quds Force as an organization analogous to a combination of the CIA and the Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC) in the United States.
He also wrote a famous open letter to Ayatollah Khomeini, criticizing him for the continuation of the Iran-Iraq war after Iran had recovered her occupied territories, notably the liberation of Khorramshahr.
Access to the Sovereign Wealth Fund The Export Development Bank of Iran has access to the Government Fund (Sovereign Wealth Fund) administered by the National Development Fund of Iran [NDFI] which was founded in 2011.
Already vice-Speaker of Iraqi parliament Homam Hamoudi, Head of National Coalition Ammar al-Hakim and Iraq Foreign Ministry have condemned Tehran terrorist attacks.
In his letter he writes that he does not insist that young people accept his or any particular reading of Islam, but that he wants young people not to "allow this dynamic and effective reality in today's world to be introduced to [them] through resentments and prejudices".
In his speeches, he reportedly emphasizes what he describes as the moral and spiritual shortcomings of Western modernity, including secularism, liberalism, and materialism.
These were later dropped, and he was sentenced to 74 lashes for taking drugs after the court heard he had smoked opium with Jahed.
Since 2014, Jafari has lived in Maryland, United States, having fled Afghanistan following threats from the Taliban.
Specifications The Tondar hovercraft weighs 11 tons, measures 17 meters in length, 8 meters in width, and 6 meters in height.
Hashemi Rafsanjani was also elected as the fourth president of Iran on 28 July 1989 and became the president on 3 August 1989.
The ideal of exporting the revolution is not limited to the Islamic Revolution of Iran, but even in the universities of Europe and the Americas in the last two centuries is considered as part of the mission abroad of all revolutions.
Also, an important part of the activities of this research institute is educational cooperation with higher education centers in fields related to meteorological sciences.
History Founded during the Qajar era in 1856, the Decoration of the Commander of the Faithful was created by Naser al-Din Shah Qajar to commemorate the recapture of Herat.
Rafsanjani government (1989–97) After the Iran–Iraq War in 1988, the Iranian government under Rafsanjani, declared its intention to privatize most state industries in an effort to stimulate the ailing economy.
Services Among the services of the 4030 Call System are: For expert consulting and corona-screening (of coronavirus suspects) Answering questions and advising "pregnant and postpartum mothers".
Early life and education Born in Tabriz in 1869, Ḥakimi was part of "an old and prominent family of court physicians", who traced their status as far back as the 17th century, "starting with the eponym of the family, Moḥammad-Dāvud Khan Ḥakim" who served at the courts of the Safavid shahs Safi (r.
Oveissi sought permission from Reza Shah to be stationed at Khuzestan instead where the government was involved in battle with rebel groups.
He was also Minister of Agriculture from 1979 to 1980 and President of University of Tehran from 1983 to 1984.
However, his title is most likely related to his later victory against Sadeq Khan Shaqaqi near Qazvin and his later post there.
What distinguished the 11th Tactical Reconnaissance Squadron from other units of the Iranian Air Force was the nature of its missions: while operating as single aircraft deep inside enemy territory, their planes carried no offensive weapons.
List of ministers Qajar Iran Pahlavi Iran Islamic Republic of Iran Timeline since 1979 See also Ministry of Foreign Affairs Cabinet of Iran References External links Media related to Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Iran at Wikimedia Commons
Department of Justice has charged Iranian national Shahram Poursafi with plotting to assassinate former National Security Adviser John Bolton.
Biography He was born in the Iranian province of Khūzestān, home to most of Iran's Arab population which had suffered marginalisation and persecution under the regime of the Shah and subsequently that of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
However his efforts were undermined by the judiciary which was controlled by the Supreme Leader, Ali Khamenei, which ordered the closure of over 100 newspapers during Jamei's tenure as culture minister Jamei protested against the closure of newspapers and arrest of journalists without effect.
Later life Reyshahri wrote more than 75 books on Islamic teachings, and one of them, entitled The Wisdom of Christ, was translated and published in English in South Africa to mark the New Year in 2022.
Although they do not allege that Iran has attempted to weaponise them, Iran possesses sufficient biological facilities to potentially do so.
Other non-partisan pro-Israel groups, including the Anti-Defamation League and the American Jewish Committee, were cautiously welcoming of the agreement after being briefed by White House officials.
A self-made multi-millionaire, Elghanian was known for his entrepreneurial accomplishments in Iran and Israel.
government agencies; while the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency (ACDA) estimated Iranian 1993 expenditure to be $4.9 billion, U.S.
Powers of the Tribunal of Justice This section begins by stating the purpose for the Ministry of Justice with article 71: *ART.
Also cooperation with United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and Japan International Cooperation Agency, Korea International Cooperation Agency, UNESCO, United Nations Industrial Development Organization, UNEVOC and BIBB is another international initiative.
See also Islamic Republic of Iran Armed Forces Defense industry of Iran List of equipment of the Iranian Army Iran Electronics Industries References External links Picture Picture Picture
Controversy Sanctions In July 2013, HispanTV and other Iranian channels were removed from several European and American satellites.
The clash between IRGC and PJAK came after many months of cessation of hostilities between the sides and without explicit announcement of PJAK concerning the Kurdish militant movements' activity since April 2016.
Life Karim Mohammedzadeh was born in Iranian Kurdistan and came to Sweden as a political refugee in 1988 and immediately gained the right to asylum.
His name is on the list of Baháʼís from Iran in a report published by the Bahaʼi International Community.
List of Chiefs See also General Staff of the Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran Joint Staff of the Islamic Republic of Iran Army == References ==
It was developed to extend the utility of the RPG-7 portable rocket-propelled grenade (RPG) in service with the Iranian forces.
Along with Al-Hamdan, Musa Al-Mahmoud, who was appointed by Iran as a dignitary in Abu Kamal, was also a known leader in the group.
Afghanistan was suspended on 24 March 2026 for not paying contributions, losing its voting rights in the organization.
Biography Sohrab Khan had fought in the Russo-Iranian Wars and held several titles and positions, amongst which was tahvildar vojooh khaseh ("the treasurer") during the reign of Fath-Ali Shah Qajar (r.
Locations Select list of notable museums and palaces overseen by ICHTO, listed in alphabetical order.
Hearing in courts-martial is carried out according to the criminal procedure and the accused ones can enjoy having lawyers during the entire trial procedure.
Sarkis Khan Davidkhanian, Soleiman Khan Davidkhanian, and Eskandar Khan Davidkhanian were also known to frequent its grounds.
It has become clear that they are both blood-sucking Hitlers." References External links Quotations related to Ali Meshkini at Wikiquote BBC on Assembly of Experts Friday Sermon at Qom: Pray that God Ends the Lives of Bush, Blair and Sharon Soon.
On 24 August 2013, President Rouhani additionally appointed Fazli as Secretary General of Drug Control Headquarters.
In 1921, Edmund Ironside, the Commander of occupying British forces in Iran, promoted Reza Khan to Commander.
The Imperial Inspectorate Organization was established in October 1958, and shortly thereafter, the charter and powers of the organization were regulated in eight articles and approved on December 23, 1958.
President Dwight Eisenhower, speaking to a gathering of state governors in Seattle, criticized Mosaddegh for the decision and specified, that it had been supported by the communist party.
2000s From 2000 to 2006, Hezbollah made a strategic choice to build a massive amount of military infrastructure in southern Lebanon, south of the Litani river.
Severing of official ties (2010-2024) On 23 November 2010, The Gambia severed diplomatic and economic relations with Iran and ordered the expulsion from the country within 48 hours of all Iranian officials.
(Persian: فهرست نمایندگان دوره پنجم مجلس خبرگان رهبری, romanized: Fehreste nâmâyandegân dore panjom majles-e khobregân-e rahbari) consists of names of the members during the fifth and current term of the Assembly of Experts from 2016 to 2024.
In 1982, in response to military coup threats, a separate "Military Revolutionary Court" was formed, handling military cases.
The society built a state museum, a state library and several mausoleums, which incorporated motifs from ancient Iranian architecture.
president Donald Trump signed Executive Order 13876, in which the assets of the Office of the Supreme Leader of Iran, along with Ali Khamenei, were frozen following the incident near the Gulf of Oman in the days prior.
In 2005, Iran negotiated with Russia to build and launch the first Zohreh satellite under an agreement worth $132 million with the satellite launch date stipulated as 2007–2008.
Child and Adolescent Unit Since its establishment, the office has paid special attention to children and adolescents as the future builders of Iran.
The Minister of Finance was usually called "Mustowfi al-Mamalik" (means Responsible for the finances of the whole country).
These ad hoc entities are described as plainclothes police who operated at the behest of political conservatives opposed to the reformist ideas of President Mohammad Khatami.
In the following 33 years he headed the Quds Force Logistical Division "Unit 2250", responsible for coordinating Iranian logistical support for Syria's Assad government.
In December 2010, he led a delegation to Pakistan to discuss the use of media in reducing extremism.
Following the discussions a formal announcement was made of the establishment of the Iran Freedom Congress, a platform to expand participation among all political, social, ethnic and professional fractions.
History Nasrollah Khadem, graduate of Mining engineering in Mines ParisTech, founded the Geological Survey and Mineral Exploration of Iran (GSI) in 1962 and was the head of this organization until 1974.
The main function of this body is to review the implementation of the Protocol and make decisions necessary to promote its effective operation.
Recent work – on the basis of the first single calendar year in 2024 with an average temperature above 1.5 degrees Celsius – indicates that most probably Earth has already entered the 20-year period that will reach an average warming of 1.5 degrees Celsius.
Iran did not legislate in favour of a universal social protection, but in 1996, the Center of the statistics of Iran estimates that more than 73% of the Iranian population is covered by a Social Security.
However, it has not yet been approved by the Council of Guardians, which supervises Iran's legislation to ensure conformity with Islamic principles.
Firman of Mehmed the Conqueror (30 August 1473) Following the defeat of Uzun Hasan, Mehmed the Conqueror took over Şebinkarahisar and consolidated his rule over the area.
Larijani was the secretary of the Supreme National Security Council from 15 August 2005 to 20 October 2007, appointed to the position by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, replacing Hassan Rouhani.
They have separated us forcibly." In Iran, the poem brought to memory the legacy of the Treaty of Turkmenchay, which Qajar Iran was forced to sign with the Russian Empire in 1828, resulting in the former's cessation of swaths of lands in the South Caucasus to the latter.
He was also the president of economy council from 2002 to 2004 and then the head of the privatization committee from 2004 to 2005.
Secularists Although several Lebanese militias claimed to be secular, most were little more than vehicles for sectarian interests.
The United Nations Security Council held an emergency meeting on the airstrikes at the request of Iran.
Cabinet members The cabinet was consisted of the following members: Reshuffles Interior Minister Fatollah Jalali was succeeded by an army general Nader Batmanghelidj in 1958.
He was minister of education in 1852 and principal of the newly founded Dar-ol-fonoon College at Tehran.
Eventually, the cabinet was confirmed by the Majlis on 4 July 1950 receiving 97 votes in favor against 7 votes.
After Islamic Revolution of Iran, the editing and approval of new laws were also on the agenda of Islamic Consultative Assembly with the necessity of following some principles and with regard to departure of foreign experts.
President Barack Obama, were launched in March 2013 in Muscat, while Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was in power.
The importance and major role of this organization in managing the economic, financial and commercial affairs of Iran and prosperity of the private sector and direction of economic and commercial activities is undeniable.
The Illyrians were largely involved in the military defense of Greece against the Achaemenid Empire, while maintaining cultural exchanges among the Greeks.
A major escalation followed a December 2019 rocket attack on the K-1 Air Basein Iraq, which led to American airstrikes on Iranian-backed militias and a retaliatory attack on the U.S.
Farhad Dejpasand (Persian: فرهاد دژپسند; born 1962 in Rostamkola, is a politician, economist and former Minister of Economy of Iran.
"History of Persian or Parsi Language" — Iran Chamber Society soas.ac.uk Archived 23 September 2009 at the Wayback Machine First steps of Hekmat: the diary of Mirza Ali-Asghar Khan Hekmat-e Shirazi Catalogue of Persian manuscripts in the library of the India office, Volume 1 (1903)
On 7 August 1977, he was named is Minister of Interior in Jamshid Amouzegar cabinet Nasr Esfahani was introduced by Jamshid Amouzegar in 1977 as a member of the political bureau of the Rastakhiz Party.
Through social media, others were raising awareness and attempting to revoke his sentence and save his life.
Following the revolution, due to his prior public service in the pre-revolutionary government, Mojdehi was imprisoned at Ghasre prison from May until August 1979.
This evaluation is in accordance with the law that mandates the government to pursue compensation for damages caused by the actions and crimes of the United States against Iran and Iranian nationals.
History OTIF was organised on 1 May 1985 pursuant to the Convention concerning International Carriage by Rail (COTIF), which was concluded in 1980.
In response to the creation of OPEC, Maurice Bridgman of British Petroleum warned the National Iranian Oil Company about "unhappy events that would harm Iran's interests and the oil industry and damage the mutual confidence that surely ought to prevail." According to Dr.
History The embassy was the site of the 1980 Iranian Embassy siege in which members of the Iranian-Arab nationalist group, the Democratic Revolutionary Front for the Liberation of Arabistan, seized the building for several days before being overrun by the SAS.
Politics Ideology and Shia proselytization The Baqir Brigade portrayed itself as Syrian nationalist force, "the first auxiliary [/reserve]" of the Syrian Army, and as part of the wider "Islamic Resistance" against Salafism and Zionism.
It also participates in asymmetric defense operations, facilitates the transportation of personnel and equipment for logistical support to islands and coasts, and functions as a sea ambulance for search and rescue missions.
Trump then called for an end to Iran's nuclear ambitions while US military build-up near Iran continued throughout January-February 2026, including another aircraft carrier, warships, and air assets.
Now, more than twenty years after the end of the Iran-Iraq War, the obvious and hidden aspects of this presence have not yet been properly identified and narrated.
Then in 1954, it was renamed again to the 11th Kerman Infantry Division and continued under that title until 1962, when the 11th Division was relocated to Khorasan.
His four bodyguards were killed, but Moore himself was released when AAH's leader Qais al-Khazali was released in January 2010.
It passed by 91 votes in favor, four against (Portugal, South Africa, the United Kingdom and the United States) and 26 abstentions.
The Wall Street Journal, citing anonymous French officials, reported that France deployed naval assets to assist Israel.
He won 217,000 votes in the elections, to represent Chaharmahal and Bakhtiari Province in the Assembly of Experts of the Supreme Leader.
The Economist, while pointing to the polemical character of the new narrative, considered the author's skepticism, "A useful antidote to Roosevelt's self-aggrandizing, which some later writers have mimicked uncritically".
Career Culture Minister Jamei became culture minister when Khatami's first minister, Ata'ollah Mohajerani, was forced to resign following criticism by conservatives for "eroding moral standards".
It is an international center for Islamic research, containing numerous manuscripts and rare works of antiquity of Islamic history.
MAHSA Act 2024 In the United States, the Mahsa Amini Human rights and Security Accountability Act (MAHSA Act) is a bill that was first introduced to the 117th Congress in the wake of the Woman, Life, Freedom protests.
Khatami expressed sympathy with the families of the victims and wishing a speedy recovery for the injured, and he called for the release of those arrested solely for protesting and social helplessness.
The first platform for the measurement of meteorological data, air temperature, relative humidity and rainfall was built and completed in 1929 in the Barzegaran school.
See also Aide to the President of Iran Chief of Staff of the President of Iran Vice President of Iran == References ==
Article 5: The Caspian Sea water area is divided into inland waters, territorial waters, fishing areas, and common sea areas.
Around 70 high-ranking officials, including Chief Justice Mohammad Beheshti (who was the second most powerful figure in the revolution after Ayatollah Khomeini at the time), cabinet members, and members of parliament, were killed.
Majid Namjoo (Persian: مجيد نامجو) is an Iranian politician who was the minister of energy in second cabinet of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.
It rose in prominence in reaction to the desecration of various shrines, heritage sites, and places of worship by Syrian rebels during the Syrian civil war, and subsequently collaborated with the Syrian Army.
On 17 September 2018, 10 members of the anarchist group Rouvikonas riding motorbikes hurled bottles of paint at the outer walls of the Iranian Embassy in Athens.
Background The National Development Fund of Iran (NDFI) aims to turn some of the country's revenue earned by selling oil, gas, gas condensate and oil products to durable wealth, productivity, economic incentive and capital.
Sporting career Fashi also won the bronze medal of the 2009 Pankration World Cup as a freestyle martial artist and was the 3rd level trainer of the kickboxing style of the Iran Martial Sports Federation.
As a consequence of Paragraphs 2, 4, or 5 of article 976, some Iranian minors may have multiple citizenship.
The first CEO and Director General was Parviz Esmaeili, and its current CEO and Director General is Mohammad Mahdi Rahmati.
Before that could happen, however, the Interim Government resigned en masse on 6 November, just two days after the takeover of the American embassy.
This includes establishing educational institutions aimed at promoting Shiite ideology and strengthening ties with local communities.
Political and civic involvement Mazid Zamani is known for his activity among the Iranian diaspora and civic rights actors regarding political transition in Iran.
Behrad Nakhai, an Iranian nuclear engineer who worked as a research scientist at Oak Ridge National Laboratory and is currently conducting Nuclear Safety Analysis, and Kaveh L.
In the 1950s, this thirty-year-old was twice appointed chief of prime minister's office, first for a brief period because of change in government, and second lasted for 2 years.
The parliament also drafts legislation, ratifies international treaties, and approves the national budget.
Death and funeral Amir-Alai died in a car accident outside his home in August 1994 which is considered by the Iranian opposition as mysterious.
The Office of Literature and Art of Resistance (Persian: دفتر ادبیات و هنر مقاومت) also known as Resistance's Office of Literature and Art of the Artistic Sect is a governmental institution in Iran.
He was appointed minister of interior in 1966 to the cabinet led by Prime Minister Amir-Abbas Hoveyda.
At the same time it aims to ensure there are no threats to food production from climate change or measures to address it.
After the overthrow of Mohammad Mosaddegh, the Shah concentrated real power in his hands and utilized various means to maximize control over society and the government.
Early life and education Born in 1979, Abdolmalek Rigi was from the Rigi tribe who are ethnic Baloch.
Biography Mohammad-Taqí Bahār was born on 10 December 1886 in the Sarshoor District of Mashhad, the capital city of Khorasan province in north-eastern Iran.
The administrative structure of each general administration is almost similar to the structure of the headquarter.
The geodesic dome contains equipment utilized by the Americans for secure communications, housing an Modernization Enterprise Terminal (MET) using a large a satellite dish.
During this period, the IRIB aired forced confessions of political activists, a practice that human rights organizations identified as a hallmark of the regime's efforts to delegitimize domestic opposition.
History In the late 1950s the (then) Imperial (Shah) Iranian Air Force was an important US allied force and a buffer to counter any possible Soviet attack in the unstable middle east region.
He represented the people in Gilan for both the Assembly of Experts (from 1990 to 2024), and Islamic Consultative Assembly (from 1984 to 1988).
The Civil Aviation Authority of Islamic Republic of Iran (CAA.IRI), (Persian: سازمان هواپیمایی کشوری جمهوری اسلامی ایران ) is Iran's civil aviation agency.
This flexibility, especially regarding the types of actions to be undertaken, allowed for developing countries to tailor their plans to their specific adaptation and mitigation needs, as well as towards other needs.
Since then, attacks against the Bábís by prominent clerics and their followers became more common and some Bábís started to carry arms.
Iranian president Hassan Rouhani, who in many ways paved the way for the deal, said the alternative to the deal was an "economic Stone Age" brought on by sanctions and economic isolation.
Agha Khan Bakhtiar, labor minister, was replaced by Abdolreza Ansari who was in office until September 1960.
Rex Smith, this means Waj al-Rudh was the greatest calamity of Sassanid after Nahavand and battle of al-Qadisiyyah.
During the Iran-Iraq war, the division was considered one of the army's operating units and participated in the operations of Nasr, Samen al-Aimah, Al-Quds, Jerusalem and Fatah al-Mubin, Ramadan, Valfajr Preparatory, Valfajr 1 and Khyber.
The Government Ministry retained the remaining 40%, TCI employees held 5% and the last 5% shares worth of 344 billion Rials were sold on the Tehran Stock Exchange in just 8 minutes.
The cabinet lasted only for one year until 27 August 1978 when Jamshid Amouzegar resigned from office.
In a written message to the ceremony, Ayatollah Khamenei stressed that the attacks "will not damage our nation's determination to fight terrorism".
'the sky of the skies') or Shapur Khast Castle (Persian: دژ شاپورخواست) is a castle situated on the top of a large hill with the same name within the city of Khorramabad, the regional capital of Lorestan province, Iran.
The guerrillas attacked a gendarmerie post at Siahkal, killing three policemen and freeing two previously arrested guerrillas.
However, during the later years of his presidency, Reagan and Soviet General Secretary Gorbachev pursued a policy that was considered to be détente.
The organization noted that although the blame should partially be placed on relevant executive bodies, the main responsibility lies with the erstwhile management and planning organization.
Mostaan 110 or Musta'an 110 (Persian: مستعان ۱۱۰) is an Iranian counterfeit device designed by the Basij militia.
On 7 March 1983, water management, and fair distribution of water resources were made part of the ministry of energy.
In the results of the Assembly of Experts elections (2015), Amanollah Alimoradi entered the fifth term of the Assembly of Experts in the Kerman Province constituency with a conservative stance on the Jameetain list.
The activation opened a 30-day window, intended to reengage Iran, "whose refusal to cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency's (IAEA) inspectors started the crisis", in diplomatic negotiations before full restoration of sanctions.
The current Shi`ite-led government in Iraq has been criticized for lacking a separation of religion and state and for being influenced by the Shi`ite clergy, most notably Grand Ayatollah Ali Sistani.
When Mahmud's general 'Ali approached the city in Rabi II 420 H (May 1029 CE), Majd came out in person to greet him, with a small honour guard of some 100 soldiers.
Iranian viewpoint Iran only uses the term "Persian Gulf" and does not usually recognize the naming when it is referred to as "Arabian Gulf" or just the "Gulf" or by any other alternative.
Deputies Branches The Housing Foundation of Islamic Revolution has its headquarters in Tehran, and 31 branches in the provincial capitals and more than 278 sub-branches in the cities of the country.
The new Convention was the first to explicitly define apartheid, and then attempt to effectively criminalize what the ICERD had previously only prohibited.
Other estimates put the value of smuggled goods into Iran alone at $5.5 billion-$6 billion annually.
In 2018, the AK Party formed an alliance with the MHP which succeeded in re-electing President Erdoğan.
With a total of 2,440 kilometres (1,520 mi) coastline, it has maritime borders with 6 other countries: Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, and Oman.
During the Parthian Empire period, the regular Achaemenid system for collecting taxes was abolished and taxes were collected on a lump sum basis from each province.
Jordan, while still maintaining its diplomatic presence within the country, had limited ties with Qatar, as Jordan is dependent on Gulf economically, especially after the 2018 Jordanian protests.
He prohibited bribery, torture of defendants and prisoners, and structured Iranian tax and financial system.
According to him, Iran should avoid dependence on Russia and China, because they are not reliable and stable allies and will no doubt not provide the necessary support to Iran in sensitive areas.
Members According to Mehdi Bazargan, members of the council were as follows: Chairmen (Head of Council of the Islamic Revolution) See also Interim Government of Iran (1979-80) Organizations of the Iranian Revolution Regency Council References Bibliography Bakhash, Shaul (1984).
In 1922, a year after the establishment of the new Iranian Army, the General Directorate of Music began to function at the same time.
See also Order of the Red Lion and the Sun Emblems of the International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement Lion and Sun References External links Media related to Red Lion and Sun Society at Wikimedia Commons Red Cross and Red Crescent Club
The armed forces, judiciary, state radio and television, and other key government organizations such as the Guardian Council and Expediency Discernment Council are subject to the supreme leader.
Because of this threat, the Shah tried to appoint Sadighi as the prime minister in order to rally the moderates behind the government and neutralize the religious opposition.
Content The main requirements for the government include: All Sanctions against Iran must be lifted on the day that Iran begins to implement its obligations.
However, the plan collapsed over Sadighi's insistence that the Shah remains in the country and that full executive powers be entrusted in the premier's cabinet, two things that the Shah refused to grant.
The shootings were the first terrorist attacks in Tehran in more than a decade, and the first major terror attack in the country since the 2010 Zahedan bombings.
Slate wrote the "bigger finding" was that "most Iraqi civilian deaths were caused by other Iraqis" and that "while some American guards behaved horrendously toward Iraqi detainees at the Abu Ghraib prison, Iraqi police and soldiers have behaved much worse".
Simafilm (Persian: سیمافیلم) is the Iranian government state IRIB network film production corporation.
They were the first local elections to be held during rule of the one-party state under the Resurgence Party.
Career After his return to Iran in 1966, he rejoined the faculty of Tehran University of Medical Sciences (Persian: دانشگاه علوم پزشکی تهران) as Professor of Internal Medicine with a specialty in Infectious Disease.
He was educated at Westminster School and studied law at the University of London after which he was admitted to the bar at Inner Temple.
In 1963, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini wrote a book in which he stated that there was no religious restriction on corrective surgery for intersex individuals, though this did not apply to those without physical ambiguity in sex organs.
Iran has the largest gas network in the Middle East with 22,000 kilometres (14,000 mi) of high-pressure pipelines.
When Iranian troops regained control of Tabriz in 1947, the building was again used as the Tabriz municipal central office.
which include in addition: suppression of normal anxiety, toxic emotions, toxic relationships, toxic behavior, negative thinkings, reduction in motivation and non-purposive or inappropriate behaviour, illegal offense or immoral act necessary.
Ministers of Finance During the Imperial State of Iran Ministers responsible for finance under Pahlavi dynasty.
Abd al-Malik had grown increasingly resentful of Sarjun's significant influence and perceived sense of indispensability and sought to dismiss him.
The NDFI has signed agency contracts with different Iranian banks including Exports Development Bank of Iran (EDBI) to allocate US$9 billion for supporting investments in the private Sector.
Situation According to Ahmed Al-Abidi, the group is a facade for the Kata'ib Hezbollah, such as Ashab al-Kahf and Liwa Thar al-Muhandis.
Liakhov was subsequently made Military Governor of Tehran by the Shah, transforming the city into a military garrison.
Several major developments occurring in November 2017 drew concerns that that proxy conflict might escalate into a direct military confrontation between Iran and Saudi Arabia.
On 1 September 2008, it was reported that Russia may proceed with plans to sell advanced S-300 air defense systems to Iran under a secret contract believed to have been signed in 2005.
Hamid Mowlana and Chenjun Wang, "An Intergenerational Conversation on International Communication," Journal of International Communication, 24(2), 165–195.
Career Taheri was a member of Assembly of Experts and representative of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini in Isfahan province.
Ketamine The Expert Committee on Drug Dependence cautiously began investigating ketamine at its thirty-third meeting, noting, "Its use in veterinary medicine must also be considered in relation to its control".
Qare'a rocket launcher, made by IRGC, was unveiled on June, 28, 2020 besides 2 other domestically-manufactured military equipment samples.
During his tenure, Mojdehi also developed a professor exchange program between Georgetown University and Ferdowsi University.
Their most known attack, however, is the January 20, 2007 Karbala provincial headquarters raid where they infiltrated the U.S.
Mohamad-Hadi Khan oversaw the finances and employees of the Qajar household under Agha Mohammad Khan Qajar.
The militia took part in a government offensive south of the city in late 2015, and helped lifting the Siege of Nubl and al-Zahraa during the Northern Aleppo offensive of February 2016.
Filtering is the separation of homosexuals, who are deemed "deviant", from transsexuals, who are deemed "curable" by undergoing surgery.
Loss and damage It is not possible to adapt to all effects of climate change: even in the case of optimal adaptation, severe damage may still occur.
He then became a member of parliament and was among the opposition to the fall of the Qajar dynasty.
The ship was not hit during the failed strikes, and the pictures posted by Iranian propaganda accounts on social media were of the USS Bonhomme Richard fire in 2020.
From 1979–1989 the Revolutionary Court sent "more than 16,000 people" to their deaths, according to the Iran Tribunal campaign group.
As of June 2013, the convention has been ratified by 155 states representing 98.7% of the tonnage of the world's merchant fleets.
Protests Following the privatization of the Haft Tappeh Sugarcane Agro-industrial Complex and the changing of hands in 2015, the conditions for workers have become increasingly bad.
Russia – Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov stated that the mass unrest in Iran was an internal affair of the nation and hoped that the crisis would evolve without any bloodshed and violence.
The Islamic Republic of Iran Navy Aviation (IRINA) (Persian: هواپیمایی نیروی دریایی آجا) or Havadarya (هوادریا) is the air component of the Islamic Republic of Iran Navy.
After his retirement, Reza Khan, who served under him at the time, was promoted to Sartip and placed in charge of a regiment in Tehran.
Later on, the latter's consort, Toregene Khatun, appointed him as then governor of Transoxiana - Korguz's basqaq and ultimately overall civil governor after Korguz's execution in c.
He banned the Tudeh Party during his premiership, and Arthur Millspaugh was also re-appointed finance minister under his administration.
After serving two years, he quit and moved to Astaneh-ye Ashrafiyeh, where he found a job as a labourer.
This sanction is due to his role in the brutal suppression of protests after the killing of Mahsa Amini by the Islamic Republic.
This is our number one slogan." On hijab Jannati takes a strong stand in favor of compulsory hijab, or covering for women.
During World War I, he was recruited as a medical doctor into the Imperial Russian Army and he held various positions and offices, both medical and political, before returning to Urmia in 1916 as a political officer and the head of an army hospital.
Esmail Farivar (Persian: اسماعیل فریور) was an Iranian pan-Iranist politician who served as a member of parliament from 1967 to 1971, representing Rezaiyeh.
Post-Assad activity After the fall of the Assad regime in late 2024, the Syrian transitional government demanded that all Palestinian armed groups in Syria disarm themselves, dissolve their military formations, and instead focus on political and charitable work.
A major advocate of women's rights in Iran, she was the advisor on women's affairs under President Khatami, and as such a member of his cabinet from 1997 to 2005.
A police unit was quickly dispatched to the crime scene, with one of the investigators determining that she had been strangled with a cloth, likely at another location, before being dumped at the crime scene.
A similar process is followed in deleting a drug from the Schedules or transferring a drug between Schedules.
On 16 July 2009, the semi-official Iranian Students News Agency reported that Gholam Reza Aghazadeh had resigned as Iran's Nuclear Chief for unspecified reasons, a resignation of intense interest in such a difficult time.
Travel freedom In 2016, Iranian citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 37 countries and territories, ranking the Iranian passport 98th in the world according to the Henley Passport Index.
After the 1979 Iranian Revolution, he left Iran and established office in Paris and worked there as a nuclear energy consultant.
Recruitment of former Afghan soldiers It has also been reported that the group had recruited former and dissented Shia Afghan and Hazara soldiers from the Afghan National Security Forces such as the Afghan National Army and the Afghan National Police.
These holdings operate across sectors including telecommunications, pharmaceuticals, energy, healthcare, manufacturing, finance, hospitality, and real estate.
Sanction Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) designated him as a Specially Designated National (SDN) under these programs: IFSR, IRGC, and SDGT, linking him to the IRGC‐Qods Force.
Prior to the Iraq War, Ghorbanifar had passed allegations to the Bush administration that "enriched uranium was smuggled from Iraq into Iran and some may remain hidden in Iraq" which the CIA later discovered to be a fabrication created by Ghorbanifar.
ILO Director-General Guy Ryder has positively received joint declarations and statements of the Labour and Employment Ministers of the BRICS over the years.
And even though I was only 13, it was then that my “career” in humanitarian work really began." Selay Ghaffar, being a political and women's rights activist, served to work for many national and international human rights organizations.
Through his paper Tafazzoli laid basis of his political career, but also he was arrested and detained during World War II due to his activities in the paper based on the allegations that he and others related to the paper were collaborating with the Nazis.
The former Consulate-General of the United States, Tabriz was a diplomatic and political venue in Tabriz that operated under the auspices of the US Embassy in Tehran.
In an interview with Voice of America, Persian, Sane Jaleh's brother stated that the government's allegations are false and without merit.
Tunisia's neutrality has given them a good image on their relations, and somewhat annoyed Saudi Arabia.
If those who have attained citizenship under Clause 4 wish to retain the non-Iranian nationality after age 18, they have to inform Iran's Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
2026 Interim Leadership Council After the Assassination of Ali Khamenei, following Article 111 of the Islamic Republic constitution, a Provisional Leadership Council took over Khamenei's role, pending election of a new supreme leader.
Iran states it has a legal right to enrich uranium for peaceful purposes under the NPT, and further says that it "has constantly complied with its obligations under the NPT and the Statute of the International Atomic Energy Agency".
When the latter moved to convert the Persian tax records of Iraq's central dīwān to Arabic in 697, he entrusted Salih with the task.
History In the past, birth and marriage registration in Iran was traditionally done mostly by referring to clerics, neighborhood elders, or tribal elders.
The Siahkal incident (Persian: رویداد سیاهکل) or Siahkal movement (Persian: جنبش سیاهکل) refers to a guerrilla operation against the Pahlavi government organized by Iranian People's Fadai Guerrillas that happened near Siahkal town in Gilan on February 8, 1971.
For a full list of Viziers of Iran in the last 2000 years, see: "Iranian Viziers: From Bozorgmehr to Amir Kabir" (وزیران ایرانی از بزرگمهر تا امیر کبیر) by Abdolrafi' Haqiqat (عبدالرفیع حقیقت).
The new fund is to extend 50% of its financial facilities to private, cooperative and non-governmental sectors and 20% to promote foreign investment (inward and outward).
Time Restrictions to Claims for Repatriation The Convention regulates the time period that an affected party may bring a claim for the restitution of stolen cultural property or the return of those illegally exported.
By 2006, the organization "had amassed billions of dollars" in property seized from Iranian citizens, and sanctions against the Islamic Republic by the US and UN were intensifying.
See also Iran–Italy relations Greece–Iran relations Parthia Romans in Persia Roman Empire Byzantine Empire Roman–Persian Wars Roman–Parthian Wars Sasanian dynasty Acacius of Amida Mithraic mysteries Notes References Börm, Henning: A Threat or a Blessing?
In fact, Arsanjani was forced to resign from the office and was appointed ambassador to Italy immediately after his resignation.
Islamic Culture and relations Organization (Persian: سازمان فرهنگ و ارتباطات اسلامی) is one of the Iranian organizations affiliated with the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance.
See also Sasanian architecture Iranian architecture List of castles in Iran References External links Lorestan Province Cultural Heritage Organization
Second Trump presidency On February 4, 2025, Trump reinstated his 2018 Maximum Pressure Campaign against Iran.
Hundreds of thousands of gasoline-powered vehicles are also being converted to use a bi-fuel system allowing CNG as an alternative fuel.
Suspicious hands are involved in conspiracies to incite violence and bloodshed among the different Iraqi groups and tribes so that they disturb the security and calm of the Iraqi people" He was Iran's ambassador to the United Arab Emirates.
A poll following the Kazan summit revealed that 39% of 1,500 respondents had never heard about BRICS.
According to Al Jazeera, amid the COVID-19 pandemic in Iran, it developed Iran's first COVID-19 testing kits and also FAKHRAVAC, a COVID-19 vaccine that reached clinical trials.
He has seven books and many articles that were published in various fields of macroeconomics and political economy.
Taheri's resignation letter complained of "generalized corruption of religious power in Iran." On 30 June 2009, Taheri wrote an open letter in which he called Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's presidency illegitimate.
Additionally all ships over 400GT must also carry a ballast water record book that details such requirements as the filling and discharge of each tank, according to time, date, location and the treatment applied to the water.
If a substance is deemed to fulfill these requirements, the Committee then drafts a risk profile according to Annex E to evaluate whether the substance is likely, as a result of its LRET, to lead to significant adverse human health and/or environmental effects and therefore warrants global action.
Recent developments Since late 2023, he has been repeatedly linked by Israeli media as the target of airstrikes in Lebanon and Damascus.
In August 2025, the relationship severely deteriorated after the Australian prime minister announced that the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation had concluded that Iran had ordered several clandestine terrorist attacks inside Australia during 2024.
Cabinet members See also 1979 Iranian Interim Government Iran transition government in waiting == References ==
The Iran–Turkey border has a 376 kilometres (234 mi) moat, along with a 4 metres (13 ft) high concrete wall.
Unlike Zadhanfarrukh, Salih was fluent in Arabic as well as Persian, due to his Muslim upbringing in Basra.
So far, 177 "Night of Memory" programs have been held over the years, which have been an oral form of storytelling and a platform for establishing direct communication with the audience and the general public.
The Excellent Order of the Islamic Republic (Persian: نشان عالی جمهوری اسلامی, romanized: Nešān-e Āli-ye Jomhuri-ye Eslāmi) is Iran's state decoration of honour, established by "Council of Iran Ministers" on November 21, 1990.
After being arrested, the officers treated Ebrahimi's concerns for his own safety with open contempt before housing him a few miles from his previous home.
Russia however has shown skepticism to the bank and in general has prioritized security cooperation within the SCO rather than economic projects.
This led to a diplomatic crisis between the government of Iran and those of several European countries lasting until November 1997.
1847) Death In April 1862, Sohrab Khan died, and his son, Vali Khan (Irakli Khan), was appointed to Sohrab's position, i.e.
"That a very powerful and complex terrorist group, able to successfully cross all layers of the American intelligence and security, carried out the attack." (which he said was advocated by mainstream American statesmen) "That some segments within the U.S.
One of his poems, "Oh Eagle of Tkhuma" (Ya Nishra Di Tkhumi), has become almost akin to a national anthem for many Assyrians.
Emergency Police Centre of NAJA (Persian: مرکز فوریت‌های پلیسی ناجا) commonly known with its emergency telephone number as Police-110 (Persian: پلیس ۱۱۰) is a dispatcher center of Law Enforcement Command of Islamic Republic of Iran which sends emergency responder units.
As of April 17, 2026, Iranian security forces continue to withhold Hatami's body four days after his execution, reportedly to pressure his grieving family.
In March 2026, the Middle East Eye reported that the Iran Freedom Congress was promoted by members of AIPAC.
With the rising size of the illicit drug trade, international drug trafficking became a multibillion-dollar business dominated by criminal groups, providing grounds for the creation of the 1988 Convention and the consequential escalation of the war on drugs.
His mysterious death and lifetime achievements were the occasion of huge crowds and much emotion before and during his funeral, and was said to be "a blow to moderation and progressive thought" in the revolution.
He graduated with an associate degree in Electronics, then received a master's degree in political science.
Execution International human rights groups had campaigned for her release as she had already been jailed for more than eight years.
Organization for Collection and Sale of State-owned Properties of Iran (OCSSPI) (Persian: سازمان جمع آوری و فروش اموال تملیکی), founded in 2001, is affiliated to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance of Iran.
(Persian: فهرست نمایندگان دوره سوم مجلس خبرگان رهبری, romanized: Fehreste nâmâyandegân dore sevom majles-e khobregân-e rahbari) consists of names of the members during the third term of the Assembly of Experts from 1998 to 2006.
To achieve these goals, the US Embassy in Iran must show that Iran, with US assistance, is taking rapid steps toward modernization.
As a young man he gained a reputation for his interest in religion, and studied as a Mullah in the shrine city of Mashhad.
Pursuing your rights and striving to clarify the truth is the human duty of all of us." During the protests, the Reformists Front had reportedly attempted to publish a letter, commissioned by Mansouri, calling on the resignation of Ali Khamenei and for a transitional council to govern Iran.
His final duties were as chairman of the United States Bicentennial celebration and co-chair of the Rastakhiz Party.
See also Coordination Council of Islamic Revolution Forces Islamic Development Organization Islamic Culture and Communication Organization Office of Literature and Art of Resistance == References ==
Career Reyshahri began to involve himself in political activities in June 1963 during the religious revolts after Khomeini's famous speech in Qom.
See also 1988 executions of Iranian political prisoners References External links Iran Tribunal at the Wayback Machine (archived December 15, 2019)
Despite the successful retreat back to Syria, the Sasanians did keep Caesarea (modern Kayseri) and the key Armenian fortresses of Theodosiopolis (modern Erzurum) and Martyropolis.
In 2024 April, Despite the tension in the Middle East, President of Iran Ebrahim Raisi visited to Sri Lanka for the inauguration of Uma Oya Hydropower Complex.
It is annually organized by Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting to honor its top TV programs and films.
The sanctions were issued under Executive Order 13224, with risks of secondary sanctions under EO 13886.
Although modern historians frequently use the term broadly for the Khurasani supporters of the Abbasids, contemporary sources more often refer to them as ahl Khurāsān ("people of Khorasan") or abnāʾ ahl Khurāsān ("sons of the people of Khorasan").
LGBT history in Iran Around 250 BC, during the Parthian Empire, the Zoroastrian text Vendidad was written.
Members The Islamic Culture and Communication Organization has two pillars, consisting of the head of the organization and "the Supreme Council".
In recent years the term has been used in Western political discourse to identify areas under Iranian influence or control and soft power, as Iran has sought to unite all Shia Muslims under one banner.
Qais al-Khazali and his brother Laith al-Khazali were designated Specially Designated Global Terrorists.
Goals The declared goal of the Supreme Council of the Cultural Revolution is to ensure that the education and culture of Iran remains "100% Islamic" as Ayatollah Khomeini directed.
He served as minister of agriculture in last year of Khamenei's presidency, in both terms of Rafsanjani's presidency and also in first term of President Khatami.
These systems of law have been in existence for decades and are known as the Uniform Rules Concerning the Contract of International Carriage of Goods by Rail (CIM) for freight/goods and the Uniform Rules concerning the Contract of International Carriage of Passengers by Rail (CIV) for passengers.
The UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Iran expressed concern over the killing of eight protesters during recent demonstrations.
Sanctions of 1979 The United States sanctions against Iran were imposed in November 1979 after radical students seized the American Embassy in Tehran and took hostages.
The crisis was comprised between two events, namely the holding of the 53 hostages for 444 days and the take-over of the US embassy in Tehran.
To name a few, he wrote Panegyric (Setāyeshi or Madiheh), Epic (Hamāsi), Patriotic (Mihaní), Heraldic and Mystic (Ramzi or Sufi'āneh), Romantic (Āasheghāneh), Ethical (Akhlāghi), Didactic (Āmuzeshi or Pandi), Colloquial (Goft-o-gu'í), and Satirical (Tanzi or Hajvi).
Initially designating a commander-in-chief, it eventually came to be held by senior provincial governors.
In May and June 2013, Reuters reported a split had developed within the brigade over finances and leadership which led to violence.
Transition With the election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in 2005, Nasrin Soltankhah was appointed to Shojaei's post.
The International Convention on the Establishment of an International Fund for Compensation for Oil Pollution Damage, 1992, often referred to as FUND92 or FUND, is an international maritime treaty, administered by the International Maritime Organization.
He holds a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in public administration which he obtained in 1993 and 1997, respectively.
In this case, Sharia and fatwas take up the slack until it does, and it is under the religious law and Khomeini's fatwa during the interlude that surgery can be carried out.
Islamic Development Coordination Council (Persian: شورای هماهنگی تبلیغات اسلامی) is one of the revolutionary institutions of the Islamic Republic of Iran, which coordinates and coheres for the development activities between the "development-agencies/centers".
References External links Media related to Islamic Republic News Agency at Wikimedia Commons Official website official instagram official telegram official twitter official youtube official jahan Irna instagram official irna images
Unsubstantiated reports during the Kosovo War stated that Iran sent up to four arms shipments to the KLA.
Bertels tried to defend his stance declaring about the methodological absurdity of classifying writers according to their ethnic or territorial affiliation.
After the 2007 blockade of the Gaza Strip by Israel and Egypt, Soleimani's Quds Force was alleged to have been active in supporting the construction of tunnels under Gaza and the smuggling of weapons through the tunnels to the armed wings of Hamas and the Palestinian Islamic Jihad.
Moreover, with the Iranian Government in Tehran having recently negotiated the Anglo-Iranian Agreement it was decided that Ansari and Ala would be banished to foreign legations to ensure they would not act as lightning rods against the agreement.
It was controlled by the main Shia party, the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq (SCIRI); the Interior Minister, Baqir Jabr al-Zubeidi, is a former leader of SCIRI's Badr Brigade militia, which was one of the main groups accused of carrying out sectarian killings.
As the Shah's last general, he supplied Iraq with essential information on Iranian tactics under the new leadership of Iranian clerics.
End and next cabinet The prime minister was assassinated by a member of the Fada'iyan-e Islam, Khalil Tahmasebi, in Tehran on 7 March 1951.
The ensuing war was ended by a compromise which allowed the Parthian prince Tiridates and his descendants to reign in Armenia on condition that he and his successors received their crown from the Roman emperor and ruled as his clients.
"The history of Azerbaijani literature" (The Institute of Literature after Nizami at Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences 2007) repeats the Soviet scheme which derives the Azerbaijani literature from Avesta.
Current state of the issue Scholarly perspectives In the contemporary literary studies the predominant view is that the 12th-century poet Nizami Ganjavi wrote in Persian and lived in Ganja, which in those times were predominantly populated by Persians, and was under the influence of Persian culture.
E) Establishing coordination in preserving the relics of sacred defense and protecting them with the best scientific methods and preventing dispersion and depreciation.
The CBI limits fintechs' role in Iran's financial sector by allowing them to operate as long as they are not involved in money creation, currency exchange, offering payment tools (like cards) and attracting deposits.
The 1999 Iranian Student Protests were sparked by an attack by an estimated 400 paramilitary Hezbollah vigilantes on a student dormitory in retaliation for a small, peaceful student demonstration against the closure of the reformist newspaper, Salam earlier that day.
His sister Touran was briefly engaged to Fereydoon Hoveyda, Amir Abbas Hoveyda's younger brother, but she subsequently married Manouchehr Teymourtash.
Based on the fatwa (Islamic ruling) of the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran Seyyed Ali Khamenei, the use of nuclear weapons is forbidden.
2019 SCO Bishkek summit Despite the delays, there still remains support among member states for creating the bank.
He was one of the activists of Iranian Revolution; and, in the process of his political activities, he was arrested and imprisoned.
Hamid Vaezi, Setad's head of public relations, said the information "was far from realities and is not correct".
The attacks, conducted by the Israel Defense Forces and Mossad, occurred at nuclear sites, military sites, and officials' residential buildings.
I told Mr Bahari that I had to know what the Shah had in mind regarding the nature of the nuclear programme.
The Albanian government advised the purpose of the attack was in a bid to "destroy it, paralyse public services and hack data and electronic communications from the government systems", but ultimately the attack failed.
Russia's attitude toward Iran is also becoming more negative due to Iranian desire to control the Middle East, resulting in growing cooperation with Saudi Arabia.
Other Apostasy (murrtaad) is not codified in the penal code, but is nevertheless subject to prosecution by Iranian courts, due to the primary role of Sharia in the legal system.
President Ahmadinejad, however, established a new budget planning body directly under his control, a move that may give him a freer hand to implement populist policies blamed for driving up prices.
To solve the problems of the Islamic world, he proposed the "Conference of Religious Leaders and Thinkers, Scholars and Intellectuals of the Islamic World in Mecca as the Ummah of Islam".
The assassination was widely reported in the local press and caused a wave of protests by Iranian and European political groups.
Set learned the Armenian and Persian languages in the private school of the Armenian Church in Bushire.
2009 governorate elections In the 2009 governorate elections, the Sadrist Movement took part as the Independent Free Movement List, receiving 9.8% of the vote and winning 43 out of 440 seats, in third place behind the State of Law Coalition and the Islamic Supreme Council of Iraq.
The SCCR blocked the way to the emergence of the student movement in 1983-1989 period by banning many books and purging thousands of students and lecturers.
Law of Registration of Marks and Patents, 1931 The Iranian Law of Registration of Marks and Patents of 1931 stipulates that a trademark is any type of logo, design, picture, number, letter, word, seal, wrapper, etc.
Hakimi submitted the issue to the UN Security Council and resigned from office in protest of Soviet actions in January 1946.
Controversies and Misuse During the 2022–2023 protests following the death of Mahsa Amini, security forces were accused of using ambulances inappropriately to transport detainees, arrest protesters, and even fire weapons resulting in damage to EMS vehicles and eroding public trust.
Sane Jaleh (Persian: صانع ژاله, Sāne jāle) also Sanea Jaleh, Saneh Jaleh, or Sani Zhaleh (May 22, 1985 – February 14, 2011) was an Iranian student at the University of Arts.
History The Supreme Council of the Cultural Revolution was formed in December 1984, and substituted the Cultural Revolution Headquarters.
In early Islamic period, the title appears together with ayyār, and a related title, sarhang-shumārān, seems to belong to the leaders of the hierarchy of ayyārān.
Other allegations Iranian government officials later stated that they thwarted a third attack, with a terrorist team arrested by security forces.
It can also be assumed from some extant documents concerning the endowments that the library was open to the public and used by them in 1457 AD.
In 2016, he became the chairman of the Assembly of Experts, the body in charge of appointing the Supreme Leader.
As at February 2008 Iran had yet to accede to The Hague Agreement for the Protection of Industrial Designs.
He was the minister of interior in the first cabinet of Mosaddegh and the minister of justice in his second cabinet.
When a reporter from the German tabloid Bild questioned why citizens were being executed in Iran because of their sexual orientation, Zarif responded by saying, "Our society has moral principles.
Iran is known to have established branches of Hezbollah in Afghanistan and Pakistan, with several pro-Iranian groups operating in both countries during the Soviet–Afghanistan War.
Then They Came for Me: A Family's Story of Love, Captivity, and Survival is a memoir by Iranian Canadian journalist Maziar Bahari with Aimee Molloy, chronicling Bahari's family history, and his arrest and 118-day imprisonment following the controversial 2009 Iran presidential election.
Aftermath After Sweden decided to call back their soldiers, five Swedes decided to stay serving as volunteers under German leadership, and the leadership of the Persian Gendarmerie continued to be Swedish until 1921.
the Constitution provides the necessary basis for ensuring the continuation of the Revolution at home and abroad.
Part of the problem with this case was that the man had entered the country illegally and was later convicted of killing his boyfriend, after he discovered that he had been unfaithful.
It is a key player in development and production of space assets of Iran, and has some research center and factory under its control.
The introduction of French musicians brought about the westernization of the military bands in the country.
In 1881 and 1887, Persia opened an honorary vice-consulate in Galați, respectively an honorary consulate in Brăila.
Structure and participation The Iran Freedom Congress is more of a forum rather than a governing body.
Although the UNIDROIT Convention follows key terminology of the 1970 UNESCO Convention, cultural goods do not need to be defined as such by the State.
Enforcing emission cuts If the enforcement branch determines that an Annex I country is not in compliance with its emissions limitation, then that country is required to make up the difference during the second commitment period plus an additional 30%.
Débat public sur la construction de l'usine Georges Besse II – Dossier du maître d'ouvrage (in French).
If a woman is killed carrying an unborn child after the first trimester, it is considered the murder of two people.
Table II acetone anthranilic acid diethyl ether hydrochloric acid (hydrogen chloride) methyl ethyl ketone piperidine sulphuric acid toluene The salts of the substances listed in this Table whenever the existence of such salts is possible.
Afghanistan shares ties with Iran through the Persian language, but is strategically important to Saudi Arabia.
On 2 November 2012, Iran's Brigadier General Hassan Seifi said that the Iranian Army had achieved self-suffiency in producing military equipment, and that the abilities of Iranian scientists have enabled the country to make significant progress in this field.
Iran warned Qatar and the US hours before the attack, as it had before its response to the assassination of Qasem Soleimani.
His daughter, Irān, is married to Eskandar Firouz, the noted authority on Iranian fauna and environmental topics.
Events Bristol resident, and physically disabled Iranian refugee, Bijan Ebrahimi, complained that he was being frequently harassed by some of his neighbours.
Having an effective and significant role in solving an issue or an Applied research with national importance approved based on INEF regulations.
Despite the efforts of the constitutionalists to ration essential goods, including bread, and repeated attempts to break the siege during February and March, the scarcity of supplies worsened and trade collapsed.
Composed of prosecutor offices and courts-martial, it is the only specialized judicial authority anticipated in the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Three years later, in July 2019, Khamenei appointed him to the 12-member Guardian Council, a constitutional body responsible for reviewing legislation and supervising elections, including the approval of candidates for public office.
The name change has been viewed as a revival of the Persian Gulf naming dispute with Iran accusing the United Arab Emirates of racism, and the Football Federation of the Islamic Republic of Iran barring the transfer of Javad Nekounam to a UAE club.
By 1864 the regulations (or Articles) had been adopted by more than thirty maritime countries, including Germany and the United States (passed by the United States Congress as Rules to prevent Collisions at Sea.
In 2016, he claimed that the act of women taking pictures of themselves in the Zayanderud river contributed to drought in said river.
All of the three portfolios, plus agriculture ministry were left unchanged in the next administration under Asadollah Alam.
During World War II, the United States deployed more than 30,000 troops in Iran from December 1942 to early 1944.
Abu’l-Ṭayyib Ṭāher Bin ʿAbdallāh Bin Ṭāher al-Ṭabarī al-Āmolī al-S̲h̲āfiʿī commonly known as Abū al-Ṭayyib al-Ṭabarī (Arabic: أبو الطيب الطبري) was an Iranian jurisconsult, professor of legal sciences and was the chief judge in Baghdad.
Due to the technology conditions that were used at that time, the preparation of the map lasted until 1971 and about 2550 sheets of topographic maps were prepared and produced at a scale of 1: 50,000.
president Donald Trump withdrew from the nuclear deal with Iran and imposed several new non-nuclear sanctions against Iran, some of which were condemned by Iran as a violation of the deal.
Some examples of these compound names include masculine Šah-aziz and feminine Aziz-šah, masculine Sult‘an-šah and feminine Šah-sult‘an, and masculine Melik‘-šah and feminine Šah-melē/ik‘.
History and profile Established on 22 June 2003, MNA is the most multilingual (transmitting news and photos in six languages) news agency in the Islamic Republic of Iran.
The Political slogans of the Islamic Republic of Iran is a list of government and anti-government slogans from the beginning of the 1979 revolution until now.
On 17 January 2023, Abdol Hossein Khosrow Panah was elected as Secretary of Council by members of Council for four years.
Military spending: Increased oil revenues often lead to higher military expenditures, a sector typically associated with less transparency and greater susceptibility to corruption.
In Iran, dog walking is banned in at least 11 cities, largely due to interpretations of the country's official religion, Shia Islam.
This resolution aimed to prevent the transfer, importation, and export of sensitive nuclear material and equipment by Iran and vice versa.
Amir Mansur Bozorgian was released after 24 hours in police custody and took refuge in the Iranian Embassy.
For the heir to a "Persian-style" shah's royal throne, more specific titles were used, containing the key element Wali al-Ahd, usually in addition to shahzada, where his junior siblings enjoyed this style.
References External links IMO Brochure on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage Archived 29 August 2017 at the Wayback Machine
Its organs are the General Assembly, the Administrative Committee as the financial and administrative supervisory body, the Revision Committee, the Committee of Experts on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, the Committee of Technical Experts and the Rail Facilitation Committee.
Another notable example was the pan-Syrian Syrian Social Nationalist Party (SSNP), which promoted the concept of Greater Syria, in contrast to Pan-Arab or Lebanese nationalism.
The report said all the members were arrested for illegal activities like funding terrorism and money laundering.
By so doing, Razmarra earned the wrath of the powerful land-owning and merchant families and most conservatives without gaining the confidence of the radical Tudeh Party.
Early life Oveissi's family from his father's lineage goes back to Shah Qara Yusuf Muhammad, the ruler of the Ghara Ghoyonlu dynasty (Black Sheep Turkomans) and descends through Uzun Hassan.
For examples even though every student can apply to be considered for the 10th category but only a few of them will be considered for this category.
Article 6 Any intelligence cooperation or espionage in the interest of the Zionist regime is equal to betrayal and corruption, and the perpetrator will be punished with severe punishment.
Deprivation of citizenship, dual nationality Iran does not recognize dual nationality, and considers dual citizens as Iranian citizens only.
He implemented policies to encourage the production of cars powered by compressed natural gas (CNG).
Alexander invited him to the Davidkhanian family mansion on Sepah Street to meet where he was guarded by members of the Brigade.
The Central Insurance of Iran is the financial regulatory agency in charge of regulating the Iranian insurance industry.
Hakimi's uncle was Mirza Mahmud Khan Hakim ol-Molk, a politician and personal physician of Mozaffar ad-Din Shah Qajar (r.
Usually, longer sentences are given, and if other crimes were committed along with the murder, the person will serve a longer prison sentence, possibly even up to life imprisonment.
The Foundation of Martyrs and Veterans Affairs (Persian: بنیاد شهید و امور ایثارگران Bonyad Shahid va Omur-e Ithargaran) is an Iranian foundation that receives its funding directly from the national budget.
Palestinians The Palestinian movement relocated most of its fighting strength to Lebanon at the end of 1970 after being expelled from Jordan in the events known as Black September.
On 6 November 2006, the United Kingdom branch of CASMII joined with Action Iran and Iran Solidarity, forming a new organisation in the UK called Campaign Iran, which remains part of CASMII international.
It annually exports military equipment manufactured in Iran to forces of countries such as Syria, Iraq, Venezuela, and Sudan (the latter ceased in 2019), as well as non-state actors like Hezbollah in Lebanon.
This project is a technical cooperation project between the Islamic Republic of Iran Customs Administration (IRICA), United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and UNDP.
Ali Larijani, the speaker of the parliament, dismissed the attacks, saying they were a "trivial matter" and that security forces were dealing with them.
He is best known for his "integrated theory of communication and international relations", his "five dimensional model of human communication", and his "monistic-emancipatory framework" of socio-economic development.
Tsitsianov sent a division of his army including some brave Georgian Tavadi nobles, who were serving in the supply train unit (logistic support unit), together with some soldiers from the battlefield to Tbilisi to provide the necessities and bring them back to the battlefield.
During this time, 30 IRGC officers, including "three generals, battalion commanders, captains and lieutenants" and "one pilot" were killed in fighting in Syria, as were several Afghan and Pakistani auxiliaries.
According to Iran's Press Law "spreading rumors and lies and distorts the words of others" is not allowed.
The group was believed to be used by Iran's Revolutionary Guards' Quds Force to supply Iraqi Special Groups.
Products It develops and manufactures ground penetrating radar, communications system, weaponry, combat vehicles, electronic cyber warfare equipment.
The group has stated it will take action on perpetrators of violence against Syrian Alawites, citing government inaction as justification.
Content General Dispositions Article 1 and 2 of the laws, established Islam as the official religion of Persia/Iran, and specified that all laws of the nation must be approved by a committee of Shi'a clerics.
In September 2007, the Ministry of ICT announced that 51% of TCI would be privatized before the end of the Iranian calendar year on 20 March 2008.
Foreign affairs On 29 April 2015, while appearing on The Charlie Rose Show, Zarif was asked about the detention of Jason Rezaian, the Washington Post reporter held in Iran for the past nine months.
" On October 7, 2019, a number of employees of the complex went to Tehran to meet with the Parliamentary Judiciary Commission and were arrested.
Geopolitically, it has the potential to be a game changer." France In a Bastille Day speech, President Francois Hollande praised the deal and called upon Iran to "show that it is ready to help us end" the Syrian civil war.
After Israel's Twelve-Day War with Iran in June 2025 and the assassination of senior Iranian military and scientific officials by Israel, Brigadier general Pasdar Reza Mozaffari Nia was appointed as the new head of the organization.
He introduced many young new faces, such as Amir Abbas Hoveyda, Jamshid Amuzegar, Ataollah Khosravani, Nahavandi, Alinaghi Alikhani, Manouchehr Rohani, and many other Iran Novin members.
The other attacks have not been confirmed by the IRGC, nor have they been reported on in the Iranian press.
Summits Diplomatic processes include repeated summits over the centuries: Treaty of Turkmenchay, 1828 - The first diplomatic effort, the treaty barred Iran from deploying military ships in the Caspian Sea.
Sweden was considered suitable for the task and the first military officers were deployed under General Harald Hjalmarson in 1911.
Two months later, Syrian news site Jorf News claimed that members of the Baqir Brigade were training naval combat in Latakia Governorate.
See also Pasdar (IRGC) Unit 18000 Unit 340 Imam Ali Central Security Headquarters Unit 700 Alborz Corps Vali-ye Amr special forces unit == References ==
He was proposed by then president Abulhassan Banisadr in July 1980 as a candidate for the prime minister as a compromise candidate acceptable to both Banisadr and the Majlis dominated by the Islamic Republican Party.
United States President Donald Trump warned Iran over Soltani's execution with "very strong action".
The organization is also active in Northern Cyprus, and has affiliated branches in Western European nations with a significant Turkish diaspora such as Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands.
Recents report show that Fazeli directs the oversight of rocket launches by Harakat Al-Nujaba (HaN), a strategic arm of the Quds Force.
Two of his brothers are also clerics; his younger brother, Hadi Khamenei, is a newspaper editor and cleric.
It involves keeping the lookout by all available means, including audible means, visual means and by the use of marine radar.
The missile can be directed by a radar system located on top of the hovercraft, enhancing its operational range.
In addition, Ala' and Entezam were dismissed from the Iranian Senate to which they had just appointed.
Subsequently, he was removed as the president of the Iranian Academy of Medical Sciences by President Ahmadinejad.
This was the beginning of what Anoushiravan Ehteshami calls the "reorientation phase" of Iranian foreign policy.
Aftermath The agreement, which was heavily pressured by President Eisenhower, gave American oil companies significant influence over how much petroleum Iran pumped and the price it could sell for.
According to Article 4 of the Articles of Association, the main roles of the Iranology Foundation are: High presidency (President of Iran), Board of Trustees, Head of the Foundation, and Research Council.
In 1969 and 1970 a Dutch consortium of Stork Sugar and Wescon International has extended the production facilities to a capacity 9,000 tons cane sugar per day.
In 1900, he established “Madreseye Sa'adat”, the first modern school through the South and Persian Gulf.
Armaments increased again after Israel bombed a suspected Syrian nuclear reactor in 2007, with Assad transferring guided M-600 missiles to Hezbollah in response.
The Amnesty International delivered a statement on the prosecution: "In April 2000 around 20 newspapers were closed by the Press Court.
In most of her TV debates, she provided facts and figures about the crimes which happened or are happening in the Jihadist party (link of HRW and AI about mujahedeen) who are part of the government system getting threaten.
Compulsion of individuals to testify, confess, or take an oath is not permissible; and any testimony, confession, or oath obtained under duress is devoid of value and credence.
district courts may exercise subject-matter jurisdiction over criminal prosecutions against foreign sovereigns and their instrumentalities under 18 U.S.C.
About 99% of the fixed-line telephone subscribers and 61% of the mobile subscribers in Iran belong to TCI's affiliates.
One report analysed by the Bureau of Investigative Journalism seemed to show a US military Apache helicopter gunship open fire on Iraqi insurgents who were trying to surrender.
The first modern concept of martial music and a uniformed military band came to Iran in the mid to late-1800s following the tour of the European continent by Shah Naser al-Din Shah Qajar of Persia.
Argbed (Middle Persian: hlgwpt; in Parthian: hrkpty Hargbed; etymology uncertain; in Roman sources: archapetēs) were a class of military commanders in charge of castles and fortresses of the Parthian and Sasanian Empires of Persia (Iran) between the 2nd and 7th centuries CE.
He became an Iranian Army soldier aged 18 for two years' national service before employment as a labourer in the city of Khorramshahr's docks.
The Secretary of the Guardian Council initially did not agree much with the new members elected to the Guardian Council by the Parliament, and they did not show much approval for these members who were chosen by the Parliament.
Ottoman use The Ottomans used the title beylerbey from the late 14th until the mid-19th century, with varying meanings and degrees of importance.
Some chemicals which have been used extensively in warfare but have numerous large-scale industrial uses (such as phosgene) are highly regulated; however, certain notable exceptions exist.
Karzai described Iran as "a helper and a solution," and "a supporter of Afghanistan", both in "the fight against terror, and the fight against narcotics".
Madrid Agreement Concerning the International Registration of Marks, 2003 The Council of Ministers passed Decree H24305T/6921 in December 2003, ratifying Iran’s accession to the Madrid Agreement Concerning the International Registration of Marks and its protocol.
Iranian troops were positioned in the vicinity of Khorramshahr and Abadan, while Iraq put its forces in Basra on alert.
See also Economy of Iran Science and technology in Iran Environment of Iran Government of Iran Plan and Budget Organization (PBO) Notes External links Management and Planning Organization of Iran - Official Website (Archived)
When this turns out not to be the case and he is allowed to call his wife, Rosewater listens in and mocks Bahari's declarations of love to his wife.
Seyed Mahdi Hosseini Rohani (Persian: سید مهدی حسینی روحانی; 15 July 1925 – 23 November 2000) was an Iranian Ayatollah born in Qom.
It includes a robust concrete wall measuring three feet in thickness and ten feet in height, extending over 700 kilometers through inhospitable desert regions.
However, some sources report that the symbol was introduced at Geneva in 1864 as a countermeasure to the Red Crescent and the Red Cross used by two of Iran's rivals: the Ottoman Empire and the Russian Empire, respectively.
About a month later General Ironside encouraged Reza Khan to stage a coup against the Qajar government.
Al-Ahrar won 7% of the vote and 34 seats, making it the second largest group in the Iraqi parliament, after the State of Law Coalition, which won 24% and 92 seats.
The Caspian Sea borders between Azerbaijan, Iran, and Turkmenistan are not yet determined, although this problem is set to be resolved peacefully in the coming years through slow negotiations.
Iran also intends to manufacture at least 50 Ka-32 helicopters in Iran under license of Kamov and negotiations are underway to manufacture 50 An-148 under licence, probably with similar arrangements as Iran-140 to be named Iran-148.
During the World War II era, he entered Law School at the University of Tehran and graduated with a degree in political science.
Larijani was succeeded by Mohammad Bagher Zolghadr, the secretary of the Expediency Discernment Council, on March 24, 2026.
During the office of Mirza Yusuf, Naser al-Din Shah gradually disregarded the duties of the monarchy and increasingly sought refuge in isolation and his own interests within the Qajar harem.
The attempt to arrest him was met with resistance from some of Iran newspaper's employees, and Mosayeb Naeimi, the editor-in-chief of Al-Wefaq newspaper, and 39 journalists and employees of Iran newspaper were arrested.
Former Vice Minister of Ministry of Cooperatives Bahman Salehi is now the minister of the renewable energy corporation SUNIR.
Fighter jets In the 1990s, Iran's aviation sector faced significant challenges due to the aftermath of the war and the imposition of sanctions.
When specifically questioned about the potential use of nuclear weapons against Iran, President Bush claimed that "All options were on the table." According to the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, "the president of the United States directly threatened Iran with a preemptive nuclear strike.
Two chemicals, hexachlorobenzene and polychlorinated biphenyls, were listed in both categories A and C.
Dozens demonstrated in front of the Turkish consulate in Tabriz (one of the largest cities populated by Iranian Azerbaijanis) to protest against Erdoğan's supposed questioning of Iran's territorial integrity.
It is located in a terrace overlooking Hyde Park in Knightsbridge, Westminster, London, next to the Embassy of Ethiopia.
In addition to teaching at the university and in the field of cultural propaganda and activities nationwide, he has written various articles on the subject of philosophy, mysticism, and theology that have been published in specialized magazines.
In November 2012, Australia confirmed it would participate in a second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol and New Zealand confirmed that it would not.
According to Ali Motahari, a former member of parliament from Tehran, the influence of the Office of the Supreme Leader in the country's affairs was so great that "the parliament is effectively a branch of the Office of the Supreme Leader".
Amir Taheri made a statement on May 22, 2006, saying the National Post story he authored was used by "a number of reports that somehow jumped the gun" and that he stands by the article.
On 8 August 2013, three international organizations, namely Reporters Without Borders, the International Campaign for Human Rights in Iran, and Human Rights Watch, requested the withdrawal of Mostafa Pourmohammadi's nomination for the post of justice minister due to his controversial past tenure.
The head of the DOE is at the same time, vice president in environmental affairs, a member of the cabinet and is directly reporting to the President.
Aftermath of the Uprising It was said that it became into a paramilitary organization following the Uprising and Shia insurgency, morphing with the Popular Resistance Brigades.
Abbas Sheibani (Persian: عباس شیبانی; 12 November 1931 – 22 December 2022) was an Iranian physician, university professor and conservative and principlist politician.
References http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/world/iran/ships.htm https://web.archive.org/web/20161022141734/http://www.63rdvfs.com/INoob.html
Iran has also invested in Sri Lankan Oil refineries and its investments have helped to double Sri Lankan Oil production capacity.
<...> The Committee also notes that EI has expressed concern regarding the religious-based discrimination against the Baháʼí in terms of access to education, universities, and to particular occupations in the public sector.
This Iranian missile which has been manufactured by Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces Logistics (Iran), is launched from a 125 mm cannon barrel.
On Monday, November 26, 2018, the sugarcane workers of Hafte Tappeh continued their strike and protests and demanded the release of Esmail Bakhshi and Sepideh Qolian.
These efforts were failed but the Byzantine capital was not attacked, because the Sasanians preferred to focus on Egypt, which was of higher economic value than the war-torn Anatolia.
Administrative and Recruitment Affairs Organization of Iran (ARAO) or Department of State for Administration and Employment Affairs was revived on 2 August 2016 on an order by Iran's President Hassan Rouhani.
The government owes an estimated 550,000 billion tomans in debt to the Social Security Organization.
However, for the fourth term it was 10 years because the elections that took place for the fifth term was planned for 2014 but was postponed to 2016 in order to be held alongside the 2016 Iranian legislative election.
Representative publications Malakoutian, T; Hakemi, MS; Nassiri, AA; Rambod, M; Haghighi, AN; Broumand, B; Fazel, I (2007).
Tavassoli died on 16 February 2008, from a heart attack, while delivering a speech to the Expediency Council.
See also Management and Planning Organization of Iran (MPO) Statistical Center of Iran Economy of Iran Government of Iran == References ==
Its members deny its political nature and claim it to be a cultural and educational foundation, citing its full official name: Idealist Hearths Educational and Cultural Foundation (Turkish: Ülkü Ocakları Eğitim ve Kültür Vakfı).
The Azerbaijani authors explained the lack of any research on Nizami in Azerbaijan by "the plots of sneaky agents of fascism, bourgeois nationalists and great-power chauvinists" who "did all they could to hide from the Azerbaijani nation the heritage of her great son – poet Nizami".
Consequences Elghanian's death was considered one of the reasons for the departure of 75% of the 80,000 Jews who lived in the country before the revolution.
International cooperation The news agency was accepted as the 40th member of the Organization of Asia-Pacific News Agencies (OANA) at the 13th General Assembly held in Jakarta, Indonesia, in 2007.
All Iranian military bases in Syria have been abandoned as IRGC withdrew its fighters from Syria in December 2024 amid the fall of the Assad regime.
It is administered and funded by the Government of Iran, as part of the Plan and Budget Organization.
Alaeddin Boroujerdi, Chairman of the National Security and Foreign Policy Committee of the Iranian parliament, the Islamic Consultative Assembly, attributed the action to pressure from the United States.
Immediately after his removal from office, Jahromi was appointed deputy of the judiciary chief, Sadeq Larijani, in August 2009.
According to Mohsen Rezaei, the secretary of the Expediency Discernment Council, the original vision document was immediately proposed in the Expediency Discernment Council after initial expert reviews and was approved with minimal changes.
It further discusses the budget of the military which is determined by the National Consultative Assembly each year, and rights regarding military personnel.
Charges against a female detainee in Syria In November 2023, media named a third person that has been charged.
''al-Abbas Brigade''), was a Syrian Twelver Shia Muslim militia that fought for Ba'athist Syria prior to the collapse of the Assad regime.
Some say Jannati has become a target of ageist stereotyping in Iran, as he is 99 years old and many question whether he should have retired by now.
Battalion 053 Nasr includes Companies 31, 32, 33, and 34, and its soldiers also hold below high school diploma, high school diploma, and associate degree.
According to educationalist Kemal Bozay, their influence on third generation Turkish youth—who are "looking for an identity"—has "increased significantly".
This includes the conservation of biodiversity, management of natural resources, environmental education, pollution control, and coordinating with international environmental agreements.
Iran was also unable to import military equipment such as S-300 from Russia and went on to build its own substitute dubbed as Bavar 373.
Israeli Ambassador to the United States Sallai Meridor said that the window for diplomatic action was rapidly closing, and that "Israel will not tolerate a nuclear Iran." In 2010, a joint air exercise between Israel and Greece took place on Crete.
It was revived in 2019 when Major General Qasem Soleimani received the decoration, the first time it had been awarded since 1979 Iranian revolution.
References External links List of Assassinated Iranians abroad Archived 2012-03-09 at the Wayback Machine Article published in 2010 Holy Crime website Watch the entire documentary on YouTube
All candidates running for election, and proposed legislation from the assembly must be approved by the Guardian Council.
The response has emphasized reliance on domestic capacities, reducing dependence on oil exports and developing barter trade and an import substitution industrialization.
Mausoleum attack The attack on the Mausoleum of Ayatollah Khomeini took place at 10:30 am on 7 June 2017, and the fact that it occurred around the same time as the strike against the Iranian parliament immediately aroused suspicion that the two were coordinated as "twin attacks".
Along with their rivals, the Banu'l-Jarrah, they controlled the Caliphate's central government in the early decades of the 10th century.
'Ministry of Teaching and Growing of the Islamic Republic of Iran') established in 1964, is an Iranian government body (department) responsible for the oversight of K-12 education in Iran.
The Badr Organization (Arabic: منظمة بدر Munaẓẓama Badr), previously known as the Badr Brigades or Badr Corps, is an Iraqi Shia Islamist and Khomeinist political party and paramilitary organization headed by Hadi al-Amiri.
In 2012, it was announced that Iran's Quds Force is operating inside Syria providing the government of Bashar al-Assad with intelligence and direction against rebel opposition.
Albright said that activities on "a small scale", such as experiments with high explosives or a small plant to make centrifuges operation could possibly be cleared out in 24 days.
The first meeting of the Parties adopted decisions outlining identification requirements for different categories of LMOs (Decision BS-I/6, SCBD 2004).
After returning to Iran, Ayatollah Naser Makarem Shirazi began teaching the intermediate and higher level of studies in usul al-fiqh and fiqh.
Implementation Day After the IAEA certified that Iran had met the relevant JCPOA requirements, all nuclear sanctions were lifted by the UN, the E.U.
The process culminated with the vilayet reform of 1864, after which wali became the only official designation for the governor-general of a province, while the title of beylerbey survived only in the honorary rank of Rumeli beylerbeysi, which continued in use alongside its Perso-Arabic equivalents.
He publicly warned Iranian women that security forces would punish those “breaking the rules” with respect to hijab compliance.
Trial In the trial that began in October 1993, the German court found four suspects guilty of murder.
The Ministry of Science, Research and Technology (MSRT) is the government ministry of science, research and technology in Iran.
High Council for Human Rights (Persian: ستاد حقوق بشر, Sitad-e Heqâvâq-e Beshir) is the governmental national human rights institution of Iran, subdivision to the Judiciary of Iran.
Banisadr was not an Islamic cleric; Khomeini had insisted that clerics should not run for positions in the government.
The book covers a period of 678 days (from October 6, 2003, to August 15, 2005) when Rouhani and his team were handling Iran's nuclear case.
Iranian artillery fire was reported in the area in the aftermath of the clash and Iranian reinforcements were dispatched into the area.
A Letter from the premier From 1848 to 1851, Naser-ed-din Shah's celebrated premier, Amir Kabir, sent numerous letters to the king.
On 5 August 1984, Mousavi got a vote of confidence again and proposes a list of ministers to the parliament.
Death Taheri died on 2 June 2013 at near 5 A.M after 35 days of hospitalization due to Respiratory arrest in one of the Isfahan's hospitals.
Following the referendum, there were talks about another referendum to abolish the Pahlavi dynasty and make Iran a republic, however the government was overthrown by a coup d'état shortly after.
Early life and education Reyshahri was born into a religious Persian family in Rey on 29 October 1946.
Although the foreign ministers had sufficient authority to coordinate some parts of the Caspian Sea Convention, disagreement on some key issues led to adjournment to the following year.
The Assembly of Merchants was the foundation of today's Tehran Chamber of Commerce, Industries, Mines, and Agriculture.
In their 2003 article, "The Mechanics and Dynamics of the UN System for International Drug Control," David Bewley-Taylor and Cindy Fazey explain that "[t]he 1988 Convention was an attempt to reach a political balance between consumer and producer countries.
Erdoğan had been in Baku to commemorate Azerbaijan's victory over Armenia in the Second Nagorno-Karabakh War, which ended when a Russia-brokered ceasefire agreement came into effect on 10 November 2020.
Iran (Persian: ایران) is a Persian-language and the official daily newspaper of the government of Iran.
While being led away under arrest, an angry crowd which had gathered outside Ebrahimi's house cheered the policemen because they believed that Ebrahimi had been arrested for paedophilia.
This is reflected in the squadron’s motto: "Alone, Fearless, Unarmed." Pilots of this Iranian squadron, unlike typical air operations, carried out their missions alone and without any offensive armament in enemy territory.
The explanation and interpretation of the laws are, moreover, amongst the special functions of the above-mentioned assembly.
Among Atturaya's other cultural efforts beyond his participation in Assyrian political organizations was the publication of his own Assyrian nationalist magazine, Nakusha, and the establishment of Assyrian libraries in both Tbilisi and Moscow.
Ali Abdollahi Aliabadi (Persian: علی عبداللهی علی‌آبادی; born 1959) is an Iranian senior military officer and former politician who is currently commander of the Khatam al-Anbiya Central Headquarters.
Groups of impoverished women publicly cursed Sattar Khan and Baqir Khan, instead of blaming the famine on Eyn-ed-Dowleh.
{{cite web}}: Missing or empty |url= (help) (2.36 MB), US State Department, September 2005–presentation of US position.
Qavam served in the court of Naser al-Din Shah Qajar early in his career and obtained the title os-Saltaneh during the Constitutional Revolution of Iran in 1909.
Foucault and the Iranian Revolution: Gender and the Seductions of Islamism, University of Chicago Press, 2010, ISBN 0226007871 Mohammad Gholi Majd.
The people called the bathhouse 'the Emir's bathhouse.' In his retirement, Alexander Khan Setkhanian, husband of Maryam Davidkhanian, maintained the bathhouse that Martiros Khan Davidkhanian had erected behind the estate.
Meanwhile, the number of Iranians making use of TOR has increased significantly during the protests.
This is a list of ministers of Second Cabinet of Mousavi (1985–89): See also Confirmations of Mir-Hossein Mousavi's Cabinet == References ==
Then he was elected to the Iranian parliament in five terms, from 2008 to 2024, representing Tabriz, Osku and Azarshahr.
Mohammad Khatami (Persian: محمد خاتمی, romanized: Mohammad Xâtami; born 14 October 1943) is an Iranian politician and Shia cleric who served as the fifth president of Iran from 3 August 1997 to 3 August 2005.
List of ministers On 15 June 1948 when the cabinet was announced, it was reported that appointments to the ministry of roads and to the ministry of agriculture would be declared later.
Publishing affairs such as researching, compiling, translating and publishing books, magazines and thematic bibliography and catalogs etc.
The first chapter, titled Islamic Revolution and Nuclear Technology (1979-2003), focuses on the outset of nuclear technology following the Islamic Revolution and Iran's need for nuclear energy.
On the other hand, ships propelled by machinery can manoeuvre in all 360 degrees of direction and therefore can be manoeuvred irrespective of the wind conditions.
In December 2005, Iran entered into a contract to purchase 29 TOR-M1 (SA-15 Gauntlet) mobile surface-to-air missile defense systems from Russia worth more than US$700 million (EUR 600 million).
Iran has been testing and producing missiles to increase its military capabilities, and as such, has performed a series of tests on increasingly advanced types of missiles, including ballistic missiles.
The official cause of death was heart failure; however, bruises on her legs and face suggested to many that she had been beaten, despite police denials.
Iran in the Past Three Centuries (Irān dar Se Qarn-e Goz̲ashteh, Volumes 1 and 2 (Paktāb Publishing, Tehran).
Human rights observers have stated that the broadcasting of these confessions on state or affiliated media has taken place while many detainees were denied access to legal counsel or fair judicial proceedings, raising concerns that the confessions were obtained under coercion or threat.
Amir-Khosrow Afshar Qasemlou (1919–1999; Persian: امیرخسرو افشار قاسملو) was an Iranian diplomat who served as the minister of foreign affairs of the Imperial State of Iran during the Pahlavi era from 1978 to 1979.
The details of these requirements vary according to the intended use of the LMOs, and, in the case of LMOs for food, feed or for processing, they should be further addressed by the governing body of the Protocol.
Etchmiadzin surrendered in April, while Abbasabad and Ordubad, two fortresses in Nakhichevan, came under siege in July.
Iran-Russia relations fell to low levels during his government after Sa'ed refused to entertain a Soviet demand for an oil concession in Soviet-occupied Northern Iran.
They do not act as police, which is the responsibility of the Interior Minister of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
Trump just wanted to make up an excuse for his crime." Iran's Foreign Minister Javad Zarif said in a leaked tape that "Soleimani's death caused more damage to the country than if the U.S.
He had once asked the Shah if he wanted to build a nuclear bomb, to which the Shah replied that doing so would only isolate Iran from the rest of the world.
The attack, codenamed Operation Glad Tidings of Victory, followed a 16 June drone attack by Iran on the US consulate in Erbil, Iraq.
Elham served as Ahmedinejad's representative to the Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting's supervisory council.
Dassault Falcon 2000EX: Flight Calibration Service, registration mark EP-FSC Rockwell 500S Shrike Commander: Registration mark EP-MAA, scrapped at Tehran-Ghaleh Morghi Airport in 2011.
In June 2010, he spoke out against Iranian President Ahmadinejad for his alleged laxness on compulsory hijab in Iran.
See also Sanctions against Iran Cryptocurrency in Iran Protectionism Mercantilism Autarky == References ==
Abdollah Khan (Persian: عبدالله خان; 1779–1847), also known by his honorific Amin ol-Dowleh (Persian: امین‌الدوله, lit.
The chairman is elected by an absolute majority of the votes of the representatives and the other members of the board are elected separately and by a relative majority.
On 29 September 1978, Sharif Emami was elected Prime Minister and introduced his cabinet to the Shah on the same date and to the Islamic Consultative Assembly on 25 September 1978.
Two specialized agencies and six regional institutes are acting under the supervision of the General Secretariat.
As the central prison of Shiraz, Adelabad was initially constructed in an uninhabited area south of the city.
HispanTV is no longer aired in Spain as Spain is a member of the EU and HispanTV now exclusively broadcasts in Hispanic America.
On 20 February 2014, the Embassy was restored and the two countries agreed to restart diplomatic relations.
External links International Convention on the Control of Harmful Anti-fouling Systems in Ships, IMO information page Text, gov.uk
Following his arrest, Hatami didn’t have enough money for a lawyer of his own choosing and was instead assigned "court appointed counsel".
It resulted in three agreements: Protection and optimal use of water resources Weather Prevention and response to emergencies.
After negotiations with Byzantine Emperor Heraclius, an ambassador was sent to Sasanian Shahanshah Khosrow II, and Shahin withdrew again to Syria.
These developments prompted the government to undertake a more comprehensive review of the country's security governance structure.
military and political leaders fearful of Iran's capability of creating ballistic-carrying spacecraft.
After the Iranian Revolution in 1979, some of the duties and bylaws of this organization were reviewed by the Islamic Consultative Assembly in 1984.
Countries were given freedom and flexibility to ensure that these climate change mitigation and adaptation plans were nationally appropriate.
Air Force until 2040.) The 1979 Revolution and the Iran-Iraq war With the 1979 Revolution, the Islamic Republic of Iran inherited an advanced air fleet because it had a large number of advanced imported Western aircraft.
Sanctions Jahromi was sanctioned by the European Union on 1 December 2011 due to his presidency at the Saderat Bank, which was also sanctioned by the Union.
The group's fighters are said to have received training from the Quds Force and Lebanese Shi'a militia Hezbollah.
Following the 1979 Iranian revolution, his books and works were ignored and he was labelled as a Freemason, but one of his books, Persian Inscriptions on Indian Monuments, was reprinted and introduced to Iranians.
List of Heads See also Elections in Iran Guardian Council References External links Official website
Iran is seeking to reach a capacity of one million bpd of GTL-derived gasoline within the next decade.
List of ministers Most of the ministers who had served in the previous cabinet led by Amir-Abbas Hoveyda retained their posts.
In Urmia, Atturaya organized the Assyrian National Committee of Urmia, which sent young Assyrians to study in Russia.
Mkrtich Khan Davidkhanian (Persian: مگردیچ خان داویدخانیان, Armenian: Մկրտիչ խան Դավիթխանյան, 1902–1983) was an Iranian military officer and politician.
Statues of Iranian medieval scholars, Omar Khayyam, Al-Biruni, Rhazes and Avicenna (Ibn-e-Sina or Pour Sina) are inside the pavilion.
"[T]he 'bozkurt' ('Grey Wolves') sign, which is a symbol of a legal political party in Turkey and the 'rabia' sign that is widely used by Muslims in many countries as well as in Turkey.
References External links The Official page of Student Organization on Instagram The Official website
It marks the first budget under the Seventh Five-Year Development Plan, with total expenditures estimated at 2,462,000 billion tomans.
According to the OANA Secretary's report to the Istanbul Assembly, MNA, which has become OANA member since 2007, ranked second among the OANA member agencies in number of news and photos published on the organization's website.
The Fourth Term Mostowfi's fourth term of office as prime minister was marked by severe drought and famine that devastated the country.
Kazem Sami Kermani (Persian: کاظم سامی کرمانی; 1935 – 23 November 1988) was Iran's minister of health in the transitional government of Mehdi Bazargan and leader of The Liberation Movement of People of Iran (JAMA).
Measuring economic activity in nations under sanctions requires different techniques than those used for other countries.
Existing ships, who are subject to the phased implementation schedule, have potentially (depending on the renewal of their ship certificates) until 8 September 2024, by which time all ships will comply with the D2 standard.
The AEOI is the primary organization responsible for nuclear technology research and development activities in Iran.
In 2008, Iran granted Cuba a 200-million-Euro credit line to undertake several different projects; a large part of that money was dedicated to financing Cuban imports of railroad wagons, both for cargo and passengers.
The original radar sites are still standing; their technical and operational status after 40+ years however is unknown.
Selected incidents On 9 July 1999 students of Tehran University staged a peaceful demonstration against the closure of the reformist newspaper, Salam, by the Iranian press court.
The Sadrist Movement ended as largest political party in the October 2021 Iraqi parliamentary election, with 73 seats in Parliament, but in June 2022, during the 2021–2022 Iraqi political crisis, Muqtada al-Sadr’s bloc resigned from parliament.
It was adopted during the establishment of the Islamic Republic after the overthrow of the Pahlavi dynasty.
September 21, 2004: Iran announces that it will continue its nuclear program converting 37 tonnes of yellowcake uranium for processing in centrifuges.
The Institute for the Study of War assessed that these are likely Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps or IRGC-affiliated personnel, as this formation is the primary operator of Iranian drones.
Bahār began his primary education when he was three, with his father, Mohammad Kāzem Sabouri, as his tutor.
Beginning in February 2013, reports from Iraqi newspapers Al Masalah and Kitabat claimed splits had emerged within Kata'ib Hezbollah, leading to the expulsion of al-Sheibani as its leader.
He relocated to Istanbul in October 1910, residing there for nearly two years, and departed for Europe in 1911.
The MOHME comprises five departments headed by deputy ministers: Health, Research & Technology, Education‌, Logistics, Food & Drugs.
Although over 85 percent of the population use an insurance system to reimburse their drug expenses, the government heavily subsidises pharmaceutical production/importation.
On the north coast lies Iran, and on the south coast lies the Musandam Peninsula under the Musandam Governorate of Oman, with a portion of the southwest of the peninsula under the United Arab Emirates.
References External links Darioush Bayandor's books on Amazon Books by Darioush Bayandor Articles by Darioush Bayandor
The crisis began from the takeover of the American embassy in Tehran on November 4, 1979, where Iranian students took hostage of present American embassy staff.
The number of manuscripts held by the library in 2003 was 30,250 volumes, 25,000 of earlier lithographic books, 17,240 other handwritten materials; 72,490 volumes in total.
Despite international and domestic protests, Darabi and Rhayel were released from prison on 10 December 2007 and deported back to their home countries.
It maintained a presence of fighters in the town of Mayadin in Deir ez-Zor, other parts of the Deir Ez-Zor governorate's countryside, as well as a presence the Raqqa Governorate.
After being released from prison on bail in 2002, he publicly apologized "to the Iranian people" for confessing to a "lie about his plot to overthrow the IRI and other allegations," and for not being unable to withstand torture he said was used to force his confession.
In January 2005 he was recruited by the Quds Force to supply the Muqtada al-Sadr's Jaish al-Mahdi (JAM) as well as a splinter group led by Qais al-Khazali: the Khazali Network, which would later become AAH.
In 2016, Bahman Group entered into partnerships with foreign automakers such as Mazda, Isuzu, FAW, ZX Auto, and Great Wall Motor.
However, the 20:30 news program of the Islamic Republic of Iran Television, broadcast new confessions of Majid Jamali Fashi and claimed that he made these confessions moments before his execution.
The Basij and Pasdaran were instrumental in crushing the Green Movement, and this gave them political supremacy in Iran.
Alleged activities Starting in 2007, there has been considerable controversy over their support and international ties.
Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei and the Supreme National Security Council (SNSC) are at the top of the foreign policy decisions process.
Fatwas (rulings) and statements Women's attendance in stadia In the aftermath of an attempt by President Ahmadinejad to allow women to attend soccer matches in stadiums, Makarem issued a fatwa objecting to this.
Because it was the first attempt to compile a national biography of Iran, Bamdad's work is considered significant, particularly for the images it includes.
According to Alexa data, the website's URL, inn.ir, ranked 674th among the most visited Iranian websites.
According to Article 132, during the time an acting president is serving (usually a first vice president), the Majlis cannot impeach ministers, it cannot disapprove newly introduced ministers, the Constitution may not be reviewed and national referendums may not be held.
Adolf Lande, under the direction of the United Nations Office of Legal Affairs, prepared the Commentary on the Convention on Psychotropic Substances.
Iranian MP Esmaeil Gramimoqaddam said that the president's directive is illegal and the parliament opposes his decision.
The 81 ratifying states represent approximately 94 per cent of the gross tonnage of the world's merchant fleets.
Career In 1918, following World War I, Entezam joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs before serving as the Secretary to the Iranian Legations in Paris, Warsaw, Bern, and London between 1926 and 1929.
In 2006, 55 pharmaceutical companies in Iran produced more than 96 percent (quantitatively) of medicines on the market, worth $1.2 billion annually in a total market worth $1.87 billion (2008) and $3.65bn by 2013 (projected).
Those provisions obligate non-nuclear states not to acquire (or seek or receive assistance to manufacture) nuclear weapons, and to place all their nuclear material under IAEA safeguards.
History At least 230 confirmed executions occurred at the prison during the 1988 executions of Iranian political prisoners.
Personal life While living in Paris during his studies, Khosravani married a French woman and had a son.
Ali Khamenei, Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, Mohammad Khatami, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad and Hassan Rouhani were each elected president for two terms.
As of November 2018, it has been ratified by 81 states, which includes 79 United Nations member states plus the Cook Islands and Niue.
Pakistani Prime Minister Khan at the 2019 SCO Summit called for the bank and an SCO development fund to be expeditiously created.
Most of Iran's weapons before the Islamic revolution were imported from the United States and Europe.
Each year, a certain portion of the yearly budget gets allocated to public educational institutions (government-run schools & universities).
Despite Abbas Mirza's soldiers appearing to be unprepared for a large fight, Iran's entry into the war in the summer of 1826 started out successfully.
Election as City Council chairman After 2013 local election, he was nominated as chairman of City Council of Tehran by Reformists.
Foreign policy decisions are made in the Supreme National Security Council and according to Ali Khamenei's high courts.
MBS emphasized that Saudi Arabia would not allow its territory or airspace to be used for military actions against Iran.
Parallel Intelligence Organization) is an intelligence agency within the Islamic Republic of Iran made up of personnel from multiple security organizations aggregated into ad hoc security bodies, with strong ties to Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) and the judiciary.
Basing these companies in Great Britain, and BP's initial wish for a 50% share, were considered too offensive to the Iranians.
Phone nutrition consultation Providing psychological emergency services for suicide prevention Providing counseling services to prevent abortion and referring individuals in need to the Barakat Foundation.
Biography Early life He was born near the small city of Bastam in northwestern Persia during the reign of the Qajar dynasty.
Amir-Alai joined the National Front established by Mohammad Mosaddegh and was one of the individuals who signed the Charter of the Front in February 1949.
Rowling, author of the Harry Potter novels, posted on Twitter, "Then the rest of the world needs to keep saying her name.
However, after police deadly pre-dawn raid on protesters in Pearl Roundabout on February 17 which resulted in four deaths and hundreds of injuries, the demand went to call for downfall of the regime.
In the first phase, three markets will be opened in the border points of Kuhak-Chadgi, Rimdan-Gabd and Pishin-Mand areas.
Though only a small number of his writings have survived owing to the destruction of both the archives of the Assyrian Socialist Party and his own personal archive, some of his surviving poems have been turned into popular songs.
The agreement sets a six-month time frame for a more comprehensive follow-up agreement between Iran and the P5+1 negotiators to formalize Iran's nuclear relationship with the world.
Several articles talk specifically about how Ministers are appointed as well as how they are held accountable for their delinquencies.
"Assembly of experts (of the Leadership)", or the "Council of Experts" is the deliberative body empowered to appoint and dismiss the Supreme Leader of Iran; and Mojtaba Khamenei is the current recent supreme leader of Iran.
The organization was established in July 1946 and its headquartered at Mehrabad International Airport in Tehran.
Relations Yugoslav Wars Iran's relations with Serbia (then part of Yugoslavia) were strained during the Yugoslav Wars in which Iran supported the government of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina against opposing rebel Bosnian Serb forces.
Overview Pursuant to the approval made by the Extraordinary General Assembly Meeting of the Banks, the Export Development Bank of Iran was founded on 10 July 1991, and subsequently became operational on 24 November 1991, as a state-owned bank.
In practice, the Assembly has never been known to challenge or otherwise publicly oversee any of the supreme leader's decisions (all of its meetings and notes are strictly confidential).
After arriving in Vienna on 20 November 2014 John Kerry met for more than two hours with Mohammad Zarif and Catherine Ashton.
After a few weeks, other residents complained about their raucous behaviour and they were asked to leave.
With the help of his teachers, he perfected his knowledge in Fiqh (Jurisprudence), Usool Fiqh (Principles of Islamic Jurisprudence), Islamic philosophy, Kalam (Islamic Theology) and Tafsir (Interpretation of Quran).
Legislative means to a solution prior to the Algiers Accords The Iranian hostage crisis has highlighted US foreign policy and how it dealt with the crisis.
(More info: Employment of Foreign Nationals in Iran) Exemption A new law provides that workshops with less than five employees will not be subject to the labour laws.
The documentary explores issues of gender and sexual identity while following the personal stories of some of the patients at a gender reassignment clinic in Tehran.
Background The nuclear program of Iran has been a matter of contention with the international community since 2002, when an Iranian dissident group revealed the existence of two undeclared nuclear facilities.
Members of the council This is a list of members of Constitutional Amendment Council of Iran, appointed by Ayatollah Khomeini, who reviewed and amended the Constitution of Iran in 1989: Results == References ==
On 29 July 2021, the oil tanker MT Mercer Street was attacked on the Gulf of Oman, killing one Romanian citizen, the captain of the ship, and one British citizen.
Voting process Voters were given a three-part ballot, two of which (the "Yes" and "No" sections) contained the following statement: In order to include Iranian youth who participated in the revolution, the voting age was lowered from 18 to 16.
Projections indicated that by 2020, non-Annex I emissions in several regions (Latin America, the Middle East, East Asia, and centrally planned Asia) would need to be substantially reduced below "business-as-usual".
However, an escalation in conflicts between the two led to Mousavi's resignation shortly after the end of the Iran–Iraq War in 1988.
Criticism Khomeini rejected this view by explicitly declaring that the export of the revolution was certain.
Injury On April 12, 2021 hours after an incident took place at the electricity distribution network of Shahid Mostafa Ahmadi Roshan nuclear facility in Natanz, Kamalvandi visited the site along with the head of the AEOI Ali Akbar Salehi and sustained an injury while doing an inspection.
Since the senior mujtahid or Marja of Iran had given only lukewarm support to Khomeini's principle of the Guardianship of the Islamic Jurist, and Khamenei was not a marja, the original prerequisite that the rahbar (leader) be "a paramount faqih" (i.e.
Criticism Fereydoon Majlesi, former Iranian diplomat, believes that the Look to the East policy not only does not lead to Iran's progress and exit from the current situation, but also traps the country in a non-competitive market and causes uneconomic and harmful trade interactions.
In April 2022, Ambassador of Burundi Gérard Ntahorwaroye Bikebako met with former Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi.
The case concerned the exposure of Turkish state-owned bank Halkbank to prosecution by the Department of Justice.
Pasdari is not merely a job; it is a voluntary action carried out in an organized manner on behalf of the Iranian nation.
Upon approval of first "Oil Act", the "Law on Statute of National Iranian Oil Company" was ratified in five seasons on 17 May 1977.
First cabinet Second cabinet See also Nationalization of the Iranian oil industry References External links Media related to Cabinet of Mohammad Mosaddegh at Wikimedia Commons
Criminal courts of first instance try serious crimes, hadd crimes, and qesas crimes, such as murder, rape, and theft.
In the 1980s, up to 80 English players spent the English winter playing South African domestic cricket.
2025 SCO Tianjin summit During the 2025 SCO Tianjin summit, held between 1 August and 1 September, General Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party Xi Jinping announced China's plans to accelerate the development of the SCO Development Bank.
See also Al-Awda (guerrilla organization) Military Council for the Liberation of Syria Syrian Popular Resistance == References ==
A 1992 law amended regulations on divorce, extending a wife's access to divorce and granting women more grounds for requesting a divorce.
Tunisia, along with their neighbor Algeria, have been accused of praising Iran, which both states have denied.
Then he served as governor of Isfahan, and was succeeded in this post by Mohammad Ali Keshavarz Sadr.
The Sasanians were defeated under heavy casualties, which included the death of Muta and Varaztirots.
With a population of 82 million, Iran needs to have at least 400-500 new airplanes in the next 10 years to replace their outdated fleet.
The Mongol campaign continued during the winter, and the following year king David Ulu was forced to flee to Imereti, which the Mongols failed to conquer.
He helped to create the Second National Front in 1960 and, along with other pro-Mossadegh politicians, advocated a democratic system and a Shah that reigns but does not rule.
Competition between remaining elites would bring about a temporary government, as a result of compromise.
Next, he was appointed ambassador of Iran to the Court of St James's on 6 November 1969, succeeding Abbas Aram in the post.
Target countries Countries such as Japan, South Korea, China, Malaysia, Russia, India and Pakistan have been targeted in this policy.
In 2023, Russia proposed that the other BRICS members could build a joint research station on its space station.
Common LMOs include agricultural crops that have been genetically modified for greater productivity or for resistance to pests or diseases.
Since 2003, Brazilian state-run oil company Petrobras has been permitted to explore oil reserves in Iran.
When she was 3-months old, her family fled Afghanistan to live as a refugee in neighboring Iran (then Pakistan).
Prison Facilities Medical Services Reports indicate that medical care in Adelabad Prison is inadequate, with inmates sometimes waiting 10 to 15 days to see a doctor.
The methods used by his team had never before been employed in the region, and were as a result particularly profitable.
Khadijeh Shahla Jahed (10 May 1969 – 1 December 2010) was an Iranian nurse who was sentenced to death for her involvement in the murder of her boyfriend's wife.
Thus, in practice, it limits the possibilities and powers of the Islamic government to the borders of its own country, but in fact, all Muslims are a single nation whose interests are intertwined.
It also implied greater regulation and supervision over the Corps by placing its acquisitions and purchases under and the audit and purview of the government.
Scholars Pavilion or Scholars Chartagi is a monument donated by the nation of Iran to the United Nations Office at Vienna.
Facilities must include safe disposal arrangements, storage and treatment equipment, safe and suitable mooring and emergency arrangements and the necessary reducers for connections to ships.
Beglerbegi (Persian: بیگلربیگی) was a title generally held by governors of provinces of higher importance in Safavid Iran.
Sanctions On 23 May 2012, Larijani was put on the sanction list of the European Union, which was published in the Official Journal of the Union.
Political career Qavam was appointed governor of Khorasan province in 1918, during which time he responded to the ongoing famine and the Spanish flu pandemic.
Ghorbanifar's suspected duplicity during the Iran–Contra deal led CIA Director William Casey to order three separate lie-detector tests, all of which he failed.
Abu Mahdi (Persian: موشک ابومهدی), complete name: "Shahid (Martyr) Abu-Mahdi al-Muhandis missile" (Persian: موشک شهید ابومهدی المهندس), is an Iranian naval cruise missile.
Some consider the endowment date (974 AD) of the oldest Quran to the Holy Shrine of Imam Reza (AS) by a person called Ali Ibn Simjour, as the year of establishment date of the library of Asta- Quds - Razvi (or recitation place of Quran).
The Shah had set the target of producing 23,000 Megawatts of electrical energy from nuclear sources within the next twenty years.
The efforts of the family's lawyer to encourage the investigation and obtain more information were not successful.
Background The Iranian missile program began during the so-called War of the Cities during which Iraq began deliberately attacking civilian targets in Iran.
He was also Ambassador of Iran to France during the 1998 World Cup where he gave the Iranian fans flags and posters of the Iranian national football team.
On 29 March 2016, the US, Britain, France, and Germany wrote a joint letter to UN chief Ban Ki-moon accusing Iran of "defying" Security Council Resolution 2231 that endorsed the July 2015 deal.
Badr Brigade forces, and their Iranian commanders, have come to prominence in 2014 fighting the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) in Iraq.
Ayatollah Seyyed Mostafa Mousavi Faraz (Persian: سید مصطفی موسوی فراز) (also known as Seyyed Mostafa Mousavi Esfahani), is an Iranian Twelver Shia ayatollah who was born in 1944 in Isfahan to a religious family.
Khazen reveals, based on the Sidon academic's work, that Saad was not in dispute with the fishing consortium made up of Yugoslav nationals.
The cabinet led by Prime Minister Amir Abbas Hoveyda was inaugurated on 26 January 1965 to succeed the cabinet of Hassan Ali Mansur due to the assassination of Mansur on 21 January.
During a visit to Tasnim's offices in 2023, then-IRGC commander-in-chief Mohammad Ali Jafari stated, "The faithful and revolutionary media have today a very heavy duty in confronting anti-Islamic and anti-human plots of the oppressors".
On 26 September 2022, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau stated that the Government of Canada would impose sanctions on the Guidance Patrol, its leadership, and the officials responsible for the death of Mahsa Amini and the crackdown on protesters.
See also Military of Iran Islamic Republic of Iran Air Force List of Iranian Air Force aircraft Iranian military industry == References ==
These invited others to serve: Bazargan, Taleqani, Khamenei, Banisadr, Mahdavi Kani, Sahabi, Katirayee, Javadi, Qarani and Masoodi, Moinfar, Minachi (until 1979) and Ghotbzadeh.
Manucher Ghorbanifar has emerged as the probable origin of the information cited by Congressman Curt Weldon's book, Countdown to Terror: The Top-Secret Information that Could Prevent the Next Terrorist Attack on America...
Sanctions and international scrutiny Due to his contributions to Iran’s missile and space programs, Fazeli has been mentioned in reports on Iran’s military-industrial complex.
The Trump White House announced that it was putting Iran "on notice" following its ballistic missile tests on January 29, 2017, just days after taking office.
While there he had the benefit of being taught Faraid al-Usool by Mirza Hassan Yazdi, al-Makasib by Yahya Modaressi Yazdi, and Kefayat al-Usool by Mirza Baqer Zanjani.
They arrested a number of Iran Newspaper journalists and took them away, and they shocked one of my colleagues with an electric shock, and now he is not in a good condition.
Another reason for his dismissal was his failure to respond to the perceived threat of attack from the US.
Naoufal Fassih was also convicted of one charge of murder and one of attempted murder in relation to the case based on evidence seized from Ennetcom.
Southern Line The Eurasia Marmaray Tunnel connecting European Turkey and Asian Turkey, opened in 2013.
Foreign ministers from Iran, Turkmenistan, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and other countries, as well as Yue Xiaoyong, the special envoy of the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Afghan affairs, participated in the meeting in Tehran.
Ghorbanifar's anger at being labelled a liar may have led him to urge Iranian contacts to leak the Iran-Contra story.
He also called for Alawites and previous supporters of Bashar al-Assad to "take arms" against HTS leader Ahmed al-Sharaa.
In November 2023, former European Parliament Vice-President Alejo Vidal-Quadras was shot in the face in Madrid.
Ebrahim Raisi was the eighth president, serving from his election in 2021 until his death on May 19, 2024 leaving the office occupied in an acting capacity by First Vice President Mohammad Mokhber.
The Albanian government has responded by announcing that they were working with Microsoft and the FBI in an investigation into the cyberattack.
Mohammad Hossein was close to Scottish diplomat John Macdonald Kinneir, whose reports play an important role in our understanding of Mohammad Hossein's career and building.
Same-sex sexual activity Article 233 of the 2013 version of the Islamic Penal Code of Iran defines sodomy (lavāt) as the "penetration of genital organ up to foreskin of a man into anus of a male human".
Muhammad Abu Sakhil: Head of military operation in Gaza Strip replacing Iyad Al Husni who was killed in May 2023, killed with his journalists children on 11 November 2024.
Iranian new year, at the beginning of every new Iranian Year (20 March), a big Haft-sin is made behind Sa'at.
According to Tehran Bureau, Tasnim plays an active role in the Iranian government's state-led disinformation campaigns against protestors.
Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei has stated that although there "are cases of corruption; it is not systematic" in Iran.
The Ministry of Energy (Persian: وزارت نیرو Vezârat-e Niru) regulates and manages the implementation of policies applicable to energy, electricity, water, and wastewater services in Iran.
On May 24, 2006, the National Post issued an apology for the reports that the Iranian law would "require Jews and other religious minorities in Iran to wear badges...
The Judiciary Organization of the Armed Forces currently has prosecutors office and courts-martial in all the provinces' capitals.
He spent several years as a judge in the Supreme Court, before being elected as Chief of Supreme Court by Sadeq Larijani in September 2009.
Reflecting on his own role in Salih's appointment, Ibn al-Muhallab expressed his frustration: "This is what I have done to myself".
The failure of key industrialized countries to move in this direction was a principal reason why Kyoto moved to binding commitments.
Hossein Qoli was given a commission by Fath-Ali Shah in 1807 to defend the Caucasus from Russian encroachment and was given the title of sardar (commander-in-chief).
The prosecutor-general of Iran (or attorney-general), in the judicial system of Iran, is a "just mujtahid" appointed by the head of the judiciary in consultation with the judges of the Supreme Court to serve for a period of five years.
From 1925 to the Iranian Revolution in 1979, Iran was primarily equipped with Western hardware and equipment.
See also Hassan Rouhani Mohammad Mousavi Khoeiniha Saeed Hajjarian References External links Center for Strategic Studies Archived 2008-11-02 at the Wayback Machine
After four years of serving at this rank, Mozaffar al-Din Shah Qajar promoted him to the rank of Sarhang Adjutant in 1892.
He was the seventh son of Mirza Aqa Khan Nuri, Prime Minister from 1851 to 1857 under Naser al-Din Shah Qajar.
They can also track the AIS switch offs with satellite imagery or artificial intelligence to track suspicious ships.
Sanctions Namjoo was put by the European Union into the sanction list due to his connection to Iran's nuclear program on 16 October 2012.
Also among the topics were articles about the rights of the people and articles describing the flag of Iran and setting Tehran as the capital of the country.
But Sayyid Hassan Khomeini was an exception, and the Council emphasized that he was not approved due to not participating in the qualification exam.
The group was formed in late 2012 to defend the Sayyidah Zaynab Mosque and other Shia holy sites in Syria.
See also 2007 Gasoline Rationing Plan in Iran Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions Act of 2009 == References ==
It mirrored the existing parallel Ministry of National Defence (the word "National" was dropped in 1984) which solely supported and addressed the administrative affairs of the Iranian Army (Artesh) during these years.
American countries also committed $12.329 million in the country; while investments by African states registered close to $4 million.
They consist only of a frame and a stool, with some stools able to hold up to seven people at a time and having wheels.
Notable Events 2020 Riot On 29 March 2020, a riot erupted in Adelabad Prison due to inmates protesting their conditions amid the COVID-19 pandemic and their exclusion from furlough programs.
IRCS is an example of strong national societies that play an important role domestically and is held in high esteem by the Iranian general public.
Akbar Etemad (Persian: اکبر اعتماد; 3 February 1930 – 11 April 2025) was the president of the Atomic Energy Organisation of Iran from 1974 to 1978.
He was one of the potential candidates for the 2013 presidential election but was declined his candidacy on 11 May 2013.
This was later refuted by Tony Burke, who stated it was solely his government's decision and called the claims that it was due to Israeli pressure "complete nonsense".
Ahmad spoke against the policies of the Iranian Islamic government, and accused his father and others of supporting terrorist acts.
As of 2012, OutRight Action International develops an online resource for LGBTIQ Iranians in Persian.
Mirza Hassan Khan Esfandiary (Persian: میرزا حسن‌خان اسفندیاری; 1867–1945), commonly known as Hassan Esfandiari, was an Iranian politician, and 12th chairman of the Iranian parliament during the Pahlavi era.
The Secret World of Iran's Gay and Lesbian community "LGBT Activists Gather For Rare Show Of Public Pride In Iran (PHOTOS)".
Peace with the Mongols was achieved in 1262, when David Ulu returned to Tbilisi to reclaim his crown as a Mongol vassal, pledging allegiance to Hulegu, while David Narin nominally recognized Mongol rule in Imereti.
An FBI investigation indicates Iranian state cyber actors acquired initial access to the Albanian network approximately 14 months before launching the attack.
Fareed Zakaria believed the strikes undermined the rules-based international order and that US attacks will not prevent Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons in the long term.
On becoming Grand vizier, Hosein Khan persuaded the Shah to grant a concession for railroad construction—the Reuter concession—and other commercial development projects to Baron de Reuter.
On 29 June, the commander of Iran's Revolutionary Guard, Mohammad Ali Jafari, said that if either Israel or the U.S.
Bianco, and Amalya Kearse of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, the Supreme Court granted certiorari, asking "[w]hether U.S.
The Chief Justice of Iran nominates six lawyers for confirmation by the Islamic Consultative Assembly.
Reaction Iran IRGC Commander-in-Chief General Hossein Salami remarked "Today, the world’s powerful armies do not have a comprehensive defense plan without being in space.
In 2007, the Canadian CBC TV produced a documentary that interviewed several LGBTQ Iranians who talked about their struggles.
During the Iran–Iraq War, fighters of the Abuzar Brigade were stationed in the mountainous areas of Northwestern Iran, as they had experience in mountain and irregular warfare from their war with the Soviets.
Governorship of Erivan First war with Russia It would be greatly difficult for the Russians to proceed into northern Iran if the Iranians were able to hold the region of Erivan, an important invasion route.
'Roulette') is a Kaman-class fast attack craft in the Southern Fleet of the Islamic Republic of Iran Navy.
Janati said in 2012 that "young revolutionaries" should occupy key posts in the country - a quote that brought him criticism and mockery given his own age.
Ramin suggested that former Iranian president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad establish a committee for clarifying the "real extent" of the Holocaust.
Kelly Craft accused the Security Council and its members of having "lost their way" and standing by the terrorists.
Radio Tehran (Persian: رادیو تهران) is a radio station in Tehran, Iran, broadcasting content directed mainly at Tehran and Tehran province.
Therefore, museums and other public institutions must carry out checks over the origin of donated objects.
Center for Strategic Studies (Persian: مرکز بررسی‌های استراتژیک) is an Iranian think tank on strategy issues.
The National Shiite Movement (Arabic: التيار الوطني الشيعي), also known as the Sadrist Movement (Arabic: التيار الصدري, romanized: al-Tayyār al-Sadrī), is an Iraqi Shia Islamic national movement and political party, led by Muqtada al-Sadr.
Freely distributed software Microsoft products can be copied and distributed freely in Iran, whether by government offices, universities, or personal users.
It has reportedly loaned 120 million rials to urban families and 150 million rials to rural families.
Bolivia, North Korea, Honduras, and Lebanon—which are generally flag of convenience states—have not ratified the treaty.
However, areas such as the southeastern province of Sistan and Baluchistan have had persistent conflicts with Sunni extremist cells, including assassination attempts by the militants.
Also Minister of Tax debts was in charge of collecting and calculating the debts of all provinces, and Minister of Treasury had role of Central Bank.
However, beginning around fall 2011, Irsan began to harass Nesreen, Coty Beavers, and Bagherzadeh, and the group experienced acts of vandalism against their property.
This list finished as the largest party in the election on 12 May, with 14.38% of the votes and 54 seats in Parliament.
Relations progressed following Yahya Jammeh's ascension to the Gambian presidency in a coup d'état in 1994, with Iran offering economic assistance to The Gambia regarding agriculture and fisheries in 1996.
The United States' sanction and tariff efforts are believed to have kindled China's acceleration of the bank.
The role played by Carter administration has been examined in several chapters based on Department of State archives including new batches released by Wikileaks in 2017.
Setad officials state that their assets have been acquired legitimately, and part of the profits from acquisition go to charity.
The Convention aims to prevent the spread of harmful aquatic organisms from one region to another and halt damage to the marine environment from ballast water discharge, by minimising the uptake and subsequent discharge of sediments and organisms.
In general this was because rebellion was often foolhardy and dangerous to the rebel, not because it was disrespectful to the ruler.
The order was never implemented, but parliament considered legislation that would require Internet providers to block access to websites such as adult sites.
China Development Bank, one of the two main policy banks supporting the Belt and Road Initiative, had by the end of 2017 loaned $7.69 billion and 3.34 billion yuan to member banks of the SCO Interbank Consortium.
See also Aerospace Force of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Armed Forces of the Islamic Republic of Iran Defense industry of Iran Equipment of the Iranian Army Fateh-110 == References ==
Early life and education Mahdi Mirbaqiri was born in 1961 in Qom, Iran to a Shia Muslim clerical family with roots in the Shahrud region of northern Iran.
On 8 September 2018, Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) launched seven Fateh-110 missiles at the headquarters of two Iranian Kurdish opposition parties in Koy Sanjaq, located in Iraq's semi-autonomous Kurdish region.
Pezeshkian is a teacher of the Quran, and a reciter of the Nahj al-balagha, a key text for Shia Muslims.
The Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran is considered to be one of the most discriminatory towards homosexuals in the world.
He had previously served as the vice-president in Plan and Budget Organization of the Islamic Republic of Iran (PBO).
1999 - Look Away From Kosovo to See the Crisis in Central Africa, International Herald Tribune Personal life Bayandor was born in Iran to Mahmoud Bayandor, a General in the Imperial Iranian Army.
The Green Salt Project (also known as the "Project 1-11") is an alleged secretive Iranian entity focusing on uranium processing, high explosives and a missile warhead design.
Data Communications of Iran (DCI) - DCI maintains the network infrastructure, providing Internet access via the IRANPAK X.25 packet-switching network, which covers most major cities.
Critics have pointed out that some elements of the Shi`ite-controlled government, such as the Iraqi Interior Ministry, have actively persecuted Iraqi Sunnis, mirroring the tactics used by Saddam Hussein's security forces against Shi`ites.
Involvement in the 2026 Iran war In February 2026, the United Arab Emirates was directly affected by Iranian missile and drone attacks during a broader regional escalation following 2026 Israeli–United States strikes on Iran.
Motivations for policy North Korea's relations with the rest of the world, even with ostensibly close allies such as China and the Soviet Union, vary over time.
Mirza (Ali)-Naqi Nasiri (died 1731) was an official in the late Safavid era, from the Ordubadi family, who served as the secretary of the royal council (majles-nevis or vaqāye'-nevis) for several years.
Aftermath Prison sentences for participants Among those sentenced were: Saeed Sadr, a translator at the German embassy, was originally accused of 'waging war on God' (Moharebeh), a capital crime in Iran by the prosecution.
The Court was established in the early 1980s on an ad hoc basis, subsequently phased out, and then re-established in 1987.
Article 6 of the Convention provides a legal basis for extradition in drug-related cases among countries having no other extradition treaties.
Third, the executive power, which appertains to the King, that is to say, the laws and ordinances are carried out by the Ministers and State officials in the august name of His Imperial Majesty in such manner as the Law Defines.
The President of Iran is ex officio member of the Council and Minister of Culture and Islamic Guidance is its co-president.
Brazil and Turkey agreed to a fuel-swap deal with Tehran during the G-15 Summit in May 2010 in a failed attempt to avoid further international sanctions against Iran.
Reuters had reported that Iranian diplomatic officers of Iranian consulate in Turkey helped assassinate him.
The 8th Najaf Ashraf Division of the IRGC Ground Force is currently headquartered in Najafabad, Isfahan, with Mustafa Mohammadi appointed as its new commander.
Look to the East (Persian: نگاه به شرق, Negâh be sharq) is a foreign policy strategy in the Islamic Republic of Iran that has been proposed since Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's presidency in 2005.
During the constitutional revolution, the Shah confined himself to his residence at the Bagh-e Shah fort in the west of Tehran.
In 18 June 2019, Persepolis supporters protests against Iraj Arab, managing board and the Ministry of Sport and Youth, because of the possibility of ending the cooperation with their coach.
Death On 1 April 1990 he was assassinated in his apartment in the town of Nynäshamn south of Stockholm.
Imprisonment Bahari is taken to Tehran's notorious Evin Prison, given a small, bare cell which he leaves only for short exercise periods and much longer interrogation sessions.
Career He was appointed to oversee vast lands from Oxus to Anatolia with Sharaf al-Din Khwarazmi as his secretary, whom he had a distaste in.
On Wednesday his funeral was held with a funeral process starting at Tehran University where the state-run IRIB reported clashes by marchers with "the sedition movement," i.e.
Similarly, the International Institute of Strategic Studies (IISS) praised it as, "An important and honest appraisal that adds to our understanding of how a formidable monarchy came crumbling down in 1979".
He promptly lifted the spirit of the Ferdowsi University community by again instituting reforms to ensure that faculty members were recognized based on merit rather than political connections and taking other affirmative steps to improve the faculty's morale.
Following deadly crashes of imported aircraft, he also hoped to develop domestic production of aircraft.
Mohammad Karami (Persian: محمد کرمی; born 1966) is a Brigadier General of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps who has served as the Commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Ground Forces since June 2025.
In an attempt to prevent the violent attack, the women blocked the entrance of their village and burnt tires to prevent armed forces from entering.
He completed his studies under the supervision of great scholars such as Mirza Mohammed Hassan Husseini Shirazi, Sheikh Mohammad Hossein Kazemi, and Mullah Lotfollah Mazandarani.
New legislation passed by the Iranian Parliament in 2012 grants permanent residency to children born to Iranian mothers and foreign fathers.
This resulted in the Treaty of Erzurum whereby the Ottoman Empire acknowledged the existing border between the two empires.
In August 2007 the IAEA announced that Iran has agreed to a plan to resolve key questions regarding its past nuclear activities.
The attack took place after ignoring serious warnings by officials of the Kurdistan Regional Government about Iran's determination to dismantle their bases.
Mostowfi approached the Russian authorities and asked that they withdraw their troops from Azerbaijan as their presence gave the Turks a reason to invade.
The network seeks to promote unity among Muslims, strengthening Iran's position within the Islamic community.
The History of al-Ṭabarī, Volume XXVI: The Waning of the Umayyad Caliphate: Prelude to Revolution, A.D.
The third local elections in Iran were held on 3 October 1972 to elect the members of city and town municipal councils.
While serving as the deputy to Ardeshir Zahedi, Iranian foreign minister, Afshar was named as the chief Iranian negotiator on the Bahrain question in 1968.
Based on international regulations, we will continue our path until we achieve production of industrial-scale enrichment".
Vice President and Head of Cultural Heritage, Handcrafts and Tourism Organization Organization became Ministry of Cultural Heritage, Tourism and Handicrafts.
Education At an early age, Mahdi Rohani was being taught how to read and write Arabic by his father, as well as learning the Quran.
In one case, it "transformed" the formerly liberal, privately owned Parsian Bank—Iran's largest non-state bank in 2006—with new managers, a new strict dress code, etc.
Matapour's lawyer John Christian Elden said they suspended police interrogations because Matapour is afraid that the police are manipulating them.
A report provided to the National Security and Foreign Policy Committee of the Iranian Parliament gave a count of 27,500.
Treasury Department imposed sanctions on 10 individuals and 27 entities, including Iranian nationals and firms based in the UAE and Hong Kong.
Another reason for the resignation of the cabinet was the ratification of the oil nationalization bill.
The relationship between the two countries is politically much more remote than before the Bolsonaro era.
He promoted a plan for decentralization of government together with decentralization of the seven-year plan for infrastructure development and improvement.
Shortly after the beginning of the armed Kurdish rebellion, Ayatollah Khomeini and his prominent representative in West Azerbaijan province of Iran Gholamreza Hassani declared a "holy war" against the PDKI and Kurdish separatists.
Structure The Summit, which is convened every two years, has the highest level of authority, and is composed of the leaders of each member state.
Contrary to expectations, he lost the 2012 election to a military general and war veteran, Seid Eisa Daraei.
Advisor to the President of Iran (Persian: مشاور رئیس‌جمهور ایران) is an official appointed by the President of Iran with the responsibility to aid him as a consultant.
See also List of prime ministers of Iran References External links Media related to Abdolhossein Hazhir at Wikimedia Commons
The Supreme National Security Council (SNSC; Persian: شورای عالی امنیت ملی, romanized: Showrā-ye Āli-ye Amniyat-e Mellī), also known as the Supreme Council for National Security, is the national security council of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
The Government states that the Law recognizes not only Islam, but also the religions officially recognized in the Constitution.
Career In his early political life Ala served as the chef de cabinet of the Iranian foreign ministry from 1905 to 1916.
According to the Islamic Republic of Iran, Kolahi was suspected of planting the bombs as he left the building to "buy ice creams" ten minutes before the detonations.
The stated goal of HispanTV is to offer an opportunity for cultural exchange through television and web broadcasts between Latin-American citizens of Iranian descent, Hispanics of the United States, Muslim minorities of the Hispanophone world, and Spanish-speaking foreign residents in Iran.
Shifting to historic Persian poetry, In 2006 he published an essay about Iran's iconic fourteenth century poet Hafez, under the title, "Hafez: A Face-Off with Virtue".
It consists of a high commission council and is financed by both the government and private corporations.
He later fought in the Iran–Iraq War (1980–1988) as a member of the 17th Ali ibn Abi Talib Division.
As of 2026, Iranian citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 40 countries and territories, ranking the Iranian passport 90th in the world according to the Henley Passport Index.
The Badr Brigade was created by Iranian intelligence and Shia cleric Mohammad Baqir al-Hakim with the aim of fighting the Ba'athist regime of Saddam Hussein during the Iran–Iraq War.
Amidst the growing crisis, Sharif-Emami resigned on 5 November 1978, and was succeeded by General Gholam Reza Azhari, who formed a military government in an attempt to restore order.
Article 161 The Supreme Court shall be established to supervise the proper implementation of the laws in the courts, to ensure the uniformity of judicial proceedings and to perform other duties assigned to it by law, in accordance with the regulations issued by the Judiciary Chief.
Democrats, including top 2020 presidential candidates, condemned the killing of Soleimani, arguing that it escalated the conflict with Iran, and risked retaliation or war.
Historical and modern relations Tunisia is one of few Arab countries to develop good relations with Iran since the Iranian Revolution of 1979 and the establishment of the Islamic Republic.
Ukraine: President Volodymyr Zelenskyy condemned the strikes on social media, saying "Iran's actions threaten the entire region and the world, just as Russia's actions threaten a larger conflict".
The Sacred Defence Week (Persian: هفته دفاع مقدس Hafte Defâ Moqaddas, also translated Holy Defence Week) is an Iranian annual commemoration of the 1980–1988 Iran–Iraq War (often called "the Sacred Defence" in Iran).
My colleagues were traumatised, some of them were hurt … I'm a representative of the government and the president's adviser … If they had summoned me, I would have gone to them.
He also announced that Australia would list the IRGC as a terrorist organisation, pending enabling legislation.
Teachers His teachers included: Abdul-Ali Arab Mostafa Beheshti Morteza Haeri Makarem Shirazi Mohammad-Reza Golpaygani Jawad Tabrizi See also List of members of Experts Assembly List of ayatollahs == References ==
According to reports, protesters cited the rising dollar exchange rate and market instability, warning that continued conditions would lead to the bankruptcy of many small and medium-sized businesses.
In November 1949, while serving as minister of royal court, Hazhir was assassinated at the Sepahsalar Mosque, Tehran.
Emissions per-capita in non-Annex I countries are still, for the most part, much lower than in industrialized countries.
Rebellion Regarding rebellion as a means of overturning state/ruler wrong, Cook finds the opinions of Islamic scholars "heavily stacked" against this approach.
The document asks for Iran and Cuba to provide more facilities in banking cooperation with an aim of promoting economic and trade ties and making use of mutual scientific, research and industrial capabilities.
The headquarters coordinates and monitors the implementation of activities, prepares for and services meetings, and serves as a channel of communication between the Association and its Member States and other regional organizations.
Minorities Amir Kabir took a largely benevolent interest in the non-Muslim minorities of Iran, though in order to further his desire of strengthening the state.
Suspended The membership of Iraq, Lebanon and Syria have been suspended until international railway traffic with these countries is restored.
'followers of principles, fundamentalists'), also interchangeably known as the Iranian Conservatives and formerly referred to as the Right or Right-wing, are one of two main political camps in post-revolutionary Iran; the Reformists are the other camp.
An official letter from Egyptian president Gamal Abdel Nasser to a Bahraini government official dated 30 August 1951; (that is, before the initiation of Nasser's pan-Arabist policies) uses the name "Persian Gulf" (الخليج الفارسي).
One of his most enduring achievements was the institution of the Point IV program via agreement with US President Harry Truman.
Rajai's prime ministership After the Iranian Revolution in 1979, he became Minister of Education in the Interim Government of Mehdi Bazargan.
However, Hezbollah said it would not retaliate, stating Iran is a "strong country capable of defending itself", and adding that the group remained committed to its previous ceasefire agreement with Israel.
He became the secretary and translator of the crown prince Abbas Mirza since he was the first Iranian official to become fluent in French.
Noor-1, the first Iranian military satellite, was launched on 22 April 2020 to a 425 kilometer orbit and decayed from orbit on 13 April 2022 marking a lifespan of one year, eleven months, and nine days, just past its expected one year service life.
The project was approved by the top leadership in Tehran and is being completed by the Iranian Quds Force.
He played a major role in defining and expanding the Ministry's role and remit, collaborating especially with the intelligence services of North Korea, Syria, Libya and South Yemen, which supported Iran during its war with Iraq.
In the same month, French Foreign Minister Bernard Kouchner, while discussing penalties that Europe might impose on Iran, said that they could be "economic sanctions regarding financial movements...
The Supreme Council of the Cultural Revolution (SCCR; Persian: شورای عالی انقلاب فرهنگی, romanized: Shora-ye A'ali-ye Enqelab-e Farhangi) is a conservative-dominated body based in Qom, set up at the time of Ayatollah Khomeini.
Providing the preparations and equipment and facilities and developing the necessary research programs at different levels in order to implement the goals of the foundation mentioned in article 1.
In addition, it confirmed that the Uruguayan embassies in the region were following the development of events.
In total, 80 percent of Germany's external obligations were owed to the United States, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and Switzerland.
The trial was held on 7 February 2026 in Branch 15 of the Revolutionary Court in Tehran, presided over by Judge Abolqasem Salavati ("Judge of Death") who has been subject to United States sanctions since 2019 for his alleged frequent imposition of death sentences.
Other allegations Along with the above allegations, Iran is also accused of other acts of terrorism.
Australia's Minister for Foreign Affairs Julie Bishop visited Iran in April 2015, at the invitation of Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif.
Has increased the influence that the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (an ideological fighting force separate from the Iranian army) has on the economic and cultural life of the country.
The project is of the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (UNESCAP).
Mirza Hosein Khan Moshir od-Dowleh Sepahsalar (Persian: میرزا حسین‌خان مشیرالدوله سپهسالار) or simply Mirza Hosein Sepahsalar (Persian: میرزا حسین سپهسالار) (1828–1881) was the Grand Vizier (prime minister) of Iran (Persia) during the Qajar era under Naser al-Din Shah Qajar between 1871 and 1873.
Introduction Established in 1906, the Minister of Justice is responsible for prosecuting government cases, acting as the attorney-general of the country.
However, Ebrahimiyan reiterated that he was no longer the spokesperson and that his resignation did not require the Secretary's approval.
After the Iranian Revolution of 1979 and the severance of relations with the US government, its building was given to the Islamic Revolution Committees of Tabriz.
In February 1946, he was named as the minister of agriculture after serving as acting minister in the cabinet led by Prime Minister Ahmad Qavam.
Languages The IRIB World Service currently broadcasts in 32 languages: English Radio English Radio is the English language output of the IRIB World Service, aimed to the listeners in the English-speaking world.
Twenty years later, ramparts were constructed around Tehran, and Ray finally ceased to be a military objective.
In March 2025, Khamenei's advisor Ali Larijani said Iran would have no choice but to develop nuclear weapons if attacked by the United States or its allies.
Following the outbreak of the 2026 Iran conflict, the Albanese government expressed support for US and Israeli strikes, also stating Australia stood with "the brave people of Iran in their struggle against oppression".
People's Party won only 1.5% of total votes in Tehran, while in the provinces New Iran Party had more than 90% of the popular vote.
All five initial member states are members of the G20, with a combined nominal GDP of US$28 trillion (about 27% of the gross world product), a total GDP (PPP) of around US$65 trillion (35% of global GDP PPP), and an estimated US$5.2 trillion in combined foreign reserves (as of 2024).
While it was characterized as the MHP's paramilitary or militant wing during the 1976-1980 political violence in Turkey, under Devlet Bahçeli, who assumed the leadership of the MHP and Grey Wolves after Türkeş's death in 1997, the organization claims to have reformed.
Qaher313 Yasin Dorna/Tondar/Tazarve training aircraft Shafaq Light Trainer/Light Attack/Light Fighter (based on M-ATF) Propeller aircraft IrAn-140 passenger plane with Ukrainian cooperation and based on Antonov An-140.
Iranian reliance on these countries has rapidly decreased since the 2010s in most sectors whereby Iran has gained almost total independence.
These are determined and enforced by law for committing religiously forbidden acts or violating governmental regulations.
Bahari is anxious to get back to London to be with his pregnant fiancée, Paola (who tells him "Come home, Mazi.
Current status The castle is managed by the Iran Cultural Heritage Organisation and is a protected site.
Subordinates Iranian military industry, under the command of the Ministry of Defence, is composed of the following main components: In August 2018, the Iranian Ministry of Defence declared it had offloaded its shares in Wagon Pars and Iran Airtour.
Tehran's provincial channel started broadcasting on 25 January 2016, in its own right but merged again with IRIB Tehran on 10 August 2016 and the Tehran Channel became provincial again.
Mohammad Khamenei was appointed to this position by the decree of the then president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in July 2013.
Titles and Emoluments in Safavid Iran: A Third Manual of Safavid Administration, by Mirza Naqi Nasiri.
More recently, the knight Keun of the Dutch legacy of Tehran was delegated to Persia on 16 December 1880 by the Government of Romania.
The Ideological−Political organizations of Iranian armed forces are taught to indoctrinate the personnel with Islamic and political training aligned with the Supreme Leader's guidelines.
The establishment of the Iran Mission Center was proposed by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) in June 2017.
The organization opposes the existence of Israel, and was mostly known for political activism and social services in favor of Palestinians in Syria and the Gaza Strip before 2012.
Although the executive proposes most new laws, individual deputies of the parliament also may introduce legislation.
With the arrival of a new detachment of 400 Cossacks, six cannons, and regular tribal cavalry, the camp of Eyn-ed-Dowleh regained vitality.
The prefix "tara" serves as an equivalent for "trans" in English, and when combined with the adjective "jinsi" (meaning "sexual"), it translates to "transsexual." Participants in this study generally understand "tarajinsi" as someone who is willing to undergo sex change surgery.
Opposition from bureaucratic factions and clerical leaders, however, forced the Shah to dismiss his Grand Vizier and cancel the concession.
We will not allow the blood of these loved ones to be forgotten or the truth to be lost in the dust.
The challenging and heterodox nature of the Báb's claims provoked opposition on the part of the Shiʿite establishment, which then led the civil authorities of Qajar Iran to intervene on the side of the clerics.
Employers could do virtually as they wished with no consequences, and they barred the formation of labour unions.
Salaries (tax rate for public sector employees: 10%; other sectors: 10-35%); Income from professions, trades, and miscellaneous sources; (More info here) According to the Iranian direct tax rolls article no 84.
In 1998, the Constitutional Council rejected his candidacy for a seat in the Assembly of Experts for "insufficient theological qualifications".
He neither accepted nor rejected the framework deal and stated that: "nothing has happened yet." About sanctions, he proclaimed all sanctions must be completely lifted on the day of the nuclear deal is signed.
At the time, Robert Sherley was in Madrid trying to convince Spain-Portugal to rejoin an anti-Ottoman alliance with Iran, but all his efforts foundered on Spain's condition that Ormuz had to be returned.
It has a total of 5,894 kilometres (3,662 mi) land borders with Iraq, Turkey, the Republic of Azerbaijan, Armenia, Turkmenistan, Afghanistan, and Pakistan.
On 11 April 2019 famous actor Leonardo DiCaprio sounded the alarm for the fate of Iranian ecologists currently imprisoned by the Iranian government, some may face execution.
The cabinet lasted for nearly thirteen months until 7 March 1964 when Asadollah Alam resigned from the office.
NIGC does not play a role in awarding upstream gas projects; that task remains in the hands of the National Iranian Oil Company.
The overall design is similar to that of the British FV102 Striker, and it is often mistaken for the Tosan tank.
In most of continental Europe, the Code Européen des Voies de la Navigation Intérieure (CEVNI, or the European Code for Navigation on Inland Waters) apply.
The remote sensing satellite Pars 1, which was launched by a Russian Soyuz rocket from the Vostochny space base, weighs 134 kg and is equipped with three cameras.
His second tenure as prime minister was short-lived (three months) as the Soviets, angry over his refusal to grant them an oil concession in Northern Iran, inspired Azerbaijani Communists to declare independence from Iran.
Precaution is exercised throughout the Stockholm Convention, with specific references in the preamble, the objective, and the provision on identifying new POPs.
His prime minister, Mir-Hossein Mousavi received Majlis's approval on 29 October (after Majlis' negative vote to Khamenei's first candidate, Ali Akbar Velayati) and then the new government replaced Mahdavi-Kani's interim government.
He is a former advisor to President Hassan Rouhani and a former head of Center for Strategic Studies.
Mohammad Ja'far Ghaempanah has been Supervisor of Presidential Administration since 2024 under Pezeshkian.
On 9 June, the Lieutenant Commander of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC), Brigadier General Hossein Salami, argued that the attacks in Tehran were the outcome of a trilateral project with Americans, Israelis, and Saudis working together.
In January 2016, a confidant of Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman claimed that the Arab world was confronted "by a Shia full moon”, rather than just a Shia Crescent, as a result of the expanded activities of Iranian-backed Shia militias in countries such as Iraq, Syria and Yemen.
During his brief administration, the term of service of members of parliament was increased from 2 to 4 years.
Building of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles Iran has produced several unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), which can be used for reconnaissance and combat operations.
‌The Bahman Group has been listed annually for many years in the Iran 100 top companies based on assessments by the Industrial Management Institute (IMI).
Einhorn, who took part in P5+1 nuclear talks with Iran from 2009 to 2013, said, "a limit shorter than 24 days would have been desirable," but "it is probably the case that the greater the significance of a covert activity, the more difficult it will be to remove evidence of it in 24 days." U.S.
This is due to significant nation legislation such as the Oil Pollution Act, 1990, so signing the CLC was deemed unnecessary.
He was assassinated on 14 September by Habib Tanious Shartouni, affiliated to the Syrian Social Nationalist Party.
Corruption and the IRGC Much of the corruption in Iran is attributed to the IRGC and its economic affiliates.
This source also claimed that Pakistani fighters were offered an average monthly salary of around 120,000 rupees ($700-750) in return for fighting under given conditions and were even promised 15-day holidays after three months, according to this other source.
On Thursday, October 29, 2020, four of Haft Tappeh labor activists, namely Wasef Bahmani, Hamid Membini, Ebrahim Abbasi Manjezi, and Massoud Hayuri, were arrested by security forces.
Romania was among the first countries to look after and recognize the administration after the Iranian Revolution, and Iran between the first countries to care and the recognition of a new leadership after the 1989 revolution.
The arrests followed protests by workers of the company in recent months, who demanded wage arrears, reinstatement of fired employees, job status, cancellation of privatization, and extension of medical coverage.
The Qajar palace guard, the Nizam, commanded by a Swedish officer, was a force originally consisting of 2,000 men, although it deteriorated rapidly in numbers because of rivalries.
After his coronation, Nader Shah divided the position of Mostowfi ol-Mamalek among four people and appointed each of them to be in charge of the finances of a part of the country.
In 2018, after a 27-year hiatus, it was decided that direct flights would resume between the two capitals, namely Tehran and Belgrade.
On 16 June 2025, Frontline Ltd.-owned tanker Front Eagle collided with the tanker Adalynn in the Gulf of Oman.
In November 2020, the head of the Research and Innovation Organisation of the defence ministry, the nuclear physicist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, was assassinated in an ambush near Tehran.
In his letter, Khamenei expressed empathy and solidarity with the students protesting against Israel's attacks in Gaza.
Non-Persian dynasties From the reign of Ashot II, the Bagratid kings of Armenia used the title shahanshah, meaning "king of kings".
He regarded the Iranian reformist movement "as a complete waste of time" and on several occasions called for the resignation of the likes of Mohammad Khatami.
In the event that at least one-fourth of the total members of the Islamic Consultative Assembly raise a question to the President, or if any Assembly member poses a question to a minister regarding their duties, the President or the minister is obligated to attend the Assembly and address the query.
Citizenship transfer through mother A new policy allowing Iranian women to pass down their citizenship to their children at birth started to effect from 2020.
The Tondar hovercraft serves various purposes, including coastal patrol, command vessel operations, offensive reconnaissance missions, and mid-range amphibious land defense.
forces in Iraq ten days earlier, and became the first known offensive military operation carried out under U.S.
Major goal of Amouzegar's cabinet was to implement a new liberal economic program to stop inflation.
Ali Khamenei's ancestor was Sayyid Hossein Tafreshi, a descendant of the Aftasi Sayyids supposedly reaching to Sultan ul-Ulama Ahmad, known as Sultan Sayyid, a grandchild of the fourth Imam of Shia Islam, Ali al-Sajjad.
Construction and commissioning It was launched on 27 November 2008 and commissioned into service in 2009.
As a strong supporter of the Persian Constitutional Revolution Hussein Kuli Khan Nawab is praised by Morgan Shuster, treasurer-general of Persia at the time.
'Arrowhead') is a Kaman-class fast attack craft in the Southern Fleet of the Islamic Republic of Iran Navy.
allegations Project 110 and Project 111 could be names for Iranian efforts for designing a nuclear warhead and making it work with an Iranian missile.
Members with * next to their name, indicates they died while in office or died before taking an oath to become a member officially.
Larijani is a brother of Ali Larijani (Speaker of the previous Majlis), Mohammad Javad Larijani, Bagher Larijani (Chancellor of Tehran University of Medical Sciences), and Fazel Larijani (Iran's former cultural attaché in Ottawa).
However, it allows for targeting Israeli civilians in response to Israeli targeting of Palestinian civilians.
Any possessor of a stolen cultural object required to return it might be compensated only if he/she can prove due diligence at the time of the purchase and that he/she neither knew nor ought reasonably to have known that the objects was stolen (Chapter II, Art.
NIGC is responsible for the treatment, transmission, and delivery of natural gas to the domestic, industrial, and commercial sectors and power plants.
It remains known as a key document in the scholarship regarding the Safavid period, and together with the Dastur al-Moluk and the Tadhkerat-al Moluk (hence, "third"), the only surviving administrative manuals of the period.
Furthermore, it has taken steps to prevent visual complications associated with amblyopia by assisting in purchasing glasses for 923 affected children.
The Research and Self-Sufficiency Jihad Organization (Persian: سازمان تحقیقات و جهادخودکفایی سپاه پاسداران) is an Iranian R&D unit institution of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps established in 1993.
Despite these protests the cabinet received a vote of confidence from the Parliament on 29 June 1948.
Cuban President Miguel Díaz-Canel strongly condemned the attack, describing it as a serious violation of the UN Charter.
The firman bears the hand print of Muhammad, and requests the Muslims do not destroy the monastery for God-fearing men live there.
Around the same time, Raqqa Is Being Slaughtered Silently claimed that the "Shield of the Al-Jazira Heroes", a pro-government insurgent group was being set up in Raqqa's countryside.
Several Swedes and Persians died in combat with the insurgents between 1914 and 1916 in conflicts such as the Battle of Bouin and that of Qazvin when the gendarmes captured 8,000 sheep.
The National Iranian Gas Exports Company (NIGEC) was created in 2003 to manage and to supervise all gas pipeline and LNG projects.
In the sixth chapter, Diplomacy in Crisis (August 2004 – December 2004), the author focuses on the exchanging plans between Iran and Europe.
Organization chart References External links Passive Defense Organization Passive Defense Organization Iran's Passive Defense Organization
According to the Fars news agency, the Tondar can be used with different types of weapons, including rockets, guns and can also launch UAVs.
Later, the grateful cleric was instrumental in securing the release of Mojdehi after six months of imprisonment.
On 10 June 2003, judiciary spokesman Gholam-Hossein Elham explained that a lack of adequate, government-imposed filtering would "pollute the climate" of Internet sites so that those seeking information would be put off from using the sites.
As of May 2009, there were at least 137 known juvenile offenders awaiting execution in Iran, but the total number could be much higher as many death penalty cases in Iran are believed to go unreported.
Despite these statements, true official backing for privatization remains very slow due to political reasons.
The interim government of the Islamic Republic of Iran (21 September 1981 – 29 October 1981) was established after the assassination of Mohammad-Ali Rajai (President) and Mohammad Javad Bahonar (Prime Minister) on 30 August.
The Sasanian king usually selected Argbeds from wuzurgan, Iranian noble families who held the most powerful positions in the imperial administration.
The National Iranian Gas Company (NIGC) was established in 1965 as one of the four principal companies affiliated to the Ministry of Petroleum of the Islamic Republic of Iran with 25,000 million Rials initial capital.
The aircraft was first publicised in 1999 when Iranian air force General Habibollah Baghal claimed that a locally designed Dorna trainer aircraft had entered production.
The 16th Qazvin Armoured Division was established in 1342 [1963-64] by the Imperial Iranian Ground Forces.
"Enhancing Scientific Support for the Stockholm Convention's Implementation: An Analysis of Policy Needs for Scientific Evidence".
The society is one of the world's largest national societies within IFRC and is noted for its special expertise in responding to earthquakes.
Planning for the qualitative and quantitative improvement of Iranian studies and researches and holding conferences with question and answer sessions as well as monthly or quarterly lecture sessions by Iranian and non-Iranian scientists and researchers.
In early May, Hezbollah launched a large-scale attack on Amal positions in the southern Beirut suburbs of Dahieh, and by 11 May seized 80% of the suburbs, emerging for the first time as a strong force in the capital.
(Persian: فهرست نمایندگان دوره دوم مجلس خبرگان رهبری, romanized: Fehreste nâmâyandegân dore dovom majles-e khobregân-e rahbari) consists of names of the members during the second term of the Assembly of Experts from 1990 to 1998.
Arghun Aqa fought in left flank under Prince Yoshmut in Battle of Herat on 22 July 1270 which resulted in a decisive victory.
For power-driven vessels operating normally, these types of vessels are required to keep clear of all other vessels, including sailing and fishing vessels.
The faculty members who have sided with Mousavi include his wife, Zahra Rahnavard, celebrated miniaturist Mahmoud Farshchian and renowned film directors Majid Majidi and Dariush Mehrjui.
Between February and August 2018, Iran conducted seven test flights: one Khorramshahr, two Shahab-3 variants, one Qiam and three Zolfaghar ballistic missiles.
travel restrictions lifted, fewer restrictions on remittances, greater access to the Cuban financial system for U.S.
Iran also formed militias for fighters from Afghanistan and Pakistan, under the banners of Liwa Fatemiyoun and Liwa Zainebiyoun.
In 1957, the name of "Radio Tehran" was changed to "Radio Iran" and later, a second transmitter named Radio Tehran was also started working next to Radio Iran, which at the beginning only broadcast music.
During the Persian Constitutional Revolution, he cooperated with Sardar As'ad Bakhtiari (Ali-Qoli Khan Bakhtiari), but he opposed Seyed Morteza Ahrami (Alamal-Hoda) and Seyed Abdolhossein Lari and in one period he faced the wrath of Ayatollah Kazem Khoarasani.
Although the MPO was a state body whose head was appointed by the president, it was relatively independent organisation.
8th Najaf Ashraf Armored Division (Persian: لشکر 8 نجف اشرف) is a division of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
HispanTV's programming has been distributed in Venezuela, Spain, Argentina, Cuba and other countries worldwide.
Sattar-2 is a significantly improved form of its previous version; Sattar-3 is another improved version of Sattar laser-guided missile, which is said to have a warhead with 225 kg.
Requirements of the Convention All international sea going ships under the Convention must implement a 'Ballast water management plan' that enables the ship to manage their ballast water and sediment discharge to a certain standard.
Liakhov was pardoned by the Constitutional leaders probably for the fear of a Russian attack and was sent back to Saint Petersburg, where he would be dismissed soon after to serve in the Caucasus campaign of World War I.
Reyshahri was also an unsuccessful presidential candidate in the election on 23 May 1997, which led to the presidency of Mohammad Khatami.
Lyrics Notes References External links Abolghasem Halat Biography Archived 2007-09-27 at the Wayback Machine - Persian MIDI file
On the first day, they tried to prevent the conference from starting by chanting slogans such as "Death to the Islamic Republic" and "Akhund (cleric) get lost!", the latter referring to Hasan Yousefi Eshkevari who was going to speak.
The vehicle is intended to be used to provide a fast platform for anti-tank missiles and small artillery rockets.
Two months after victory of the Islamic Revolution in 1979, the new government held the Iranian Islamic Republic referendum on the 10th and 11th of Farvadin (30 and 31 March) proposing to change the Pahlavi dynasty into an Islamic Republic.
In addition, as fate would have it, a senior and highly influential cleric fell ill and the cause of his illness could not be determined.
A controlling stake (50% plus one share) of the firm, valued at over $8 billion, was sold to the Mobin Trust Consortium, a group directly linked to the IRGC’s Etemad-e-Mobin.
It transmits news and photos in six languages of Persian, English, Arabic, Turkish, Urdu and Kurdish.
So it's a very threatening situation." According to Islamic Republic News Agency the talks were based on the "guidelines of the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution".
It was first officially organized as the 8th Najaf Ashraf Brigade (Persian: تیپ 8 نجف اشرف) during Iran–Iraq War, just after Operation Samen-ol-A'emeh.
He served as the Governor of Bushehr province from December 2013 to September 2017 and as the Governor of Gilan province from September 2017 to June 2019.
Israel – The government supported Australia expelling the ambassador and claimed credit for pressuring Albanese into the expulsion.
Saudi Arabia did not join BRICS at the start of 2024 as had been planned, and it announced in mid-January that it was still considering the matter.
Published works Having attained the rank of mujtahid because of his expertise in Islamic jurisprudence and philosophy, Arafi has published more than 20 books and articles on these subjects.
October 10, 2005: Iranian Oil Ministry Deputy for International Affairs Hadi Nejad-Hosseinian said that Iran could run out of oil reserves in nine decades.
The radio's schedule includes news and talk programmes, political and religious commentaries, different series and features on special occasions.
ambassador to the UN and National Security Advisor under the Trump's first term John Bolton praised the strikes.
Following a demonstration by Haft Tappeh sugarcane workers in the city of Shush, but five of them are still in prison.
With him, many believe, died the prospect of an independent Iran led by meritocracy rather than nepotism.
It went on air with radio broadcasts of international news translated into Persian, which it offered to local subscribers.
After the Iranian Revolution "cultural battles between reformists and traditionalists" have always been a serious problem in Iran through which Khamenei has gained the experience that intellectuals are better able to solve problems than leaders.
He became the Director General of the Ministry of Agriculture and was appointed 5 times no less as Minister of War.
Dialogue among civilizations Following the election Mahmoud Ahmadinejad as president in the Iranian presidential election of 2005, Jamei was appointed managing director of the International Center for Dialogue Among Civilizations, an organization founded by Khatami.
List of ministers Source: References External links Media related to Government of Hassan Ali Mansur at Wikimedia Commons
Spokesman, Vice Minister of Parliamentary and Consular Affairs and Communication, and the Special Assistant to the Minister at the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs under President Khatami.
2 weeks later an understanding was established with February 14 Youth Movement to change the protest name to Manama Tsunami which was completely organized by the Coalition.
Naser al-Din’s confidence in Amir Kabir increased, and shortly after leaving Tabriz, he awarded him the rank of amir-e nezam, with full responsibility for the whole Iranian army.
The Iranian newspaper Kayhan incorrectly reported on 7 April 2005 that Rigi had been killed in an operation on the border to Afghanistan.
The president of the Norwegian Parliament Masud Gharahkhani, a Norwegian-Iranian, stated that it was "sad and unacceptable" that such a brutal attack could occur.
Medical education falls within the remit of the Ministry of Health, Treatment and Medical Education.
But in the absence of a civil nuclear power plant operating in Iran, there is no delivery of enriched uranium".
Military and political activities Nasr had the rank of colonel in the police and his last position in the police was the head of the police planning department.
Later in 1936 Parliament passed a law to call it the Ministry of Roads, and again on July 6, 1974, it was renamed as Ministry of Roads and Transportation.
Arrests and executions By 14 January, over 440 protesters who were arrested during the Tehran riots had been released, according to Tehran prosecutor Abbas Jafari Dolatabadi.
companies would not have been restricted from doing business with Iran, even to the extent of supplying U.S.-origin goods to Iran.
Within the commission, he also chaired one of its four committees, the one tasked with drafting amendments that would strengthen the judiciary.
In fact, the failure to achieve the desired goals in relations with Western countries with the continuing hostility between Iran and the United States, especially in the nuclear case, led to the expansion of Iran's relations with the East to be considered and emphasized once again.
He has also served as the Commander of the Guards Officer of Imam Hossein University since November 2024.
Signing and entry into force The Paris Agreement was open for signature by states and regional economic integration organizations that are parties to the UNFCCC (the convention) from 22 April 2016 to 21 April 2017 at the UN Headquarters in New York.
National Iranian Copper Industries Company abbreviated as NICICO (Persian: شرکت ملی صنایع مس ایران, Sherkat-e Melli-ye Sânaye'e Mess-e Iran) is an Iranian publicly traded corporation.
the straightward "rights of other humans in this world", such as commercial dishonesty mentioned above and things like "blocking a street".
Then there is the scandal of women gathering on roofs to watch men when there are youths among them who could give rise to temptation.
Va'ez Mousavi won with 305,072 votes See also List of members in the Fourth Term of the Council of Experts == References ==
Women were granted the right to vote in 1963, and following the parliamentary elections that year, Mosahab was one of two women appointed to the Senate.
Abdullah Keyvani Hafeshjani (born 1965 in Hafeshjan) is an Iranian Shia cleric and representative of the people of Chaharmahal and Bakhtiari Province in the Assembly of Experts of the Supreme Leader of Iran.
See also Civil Servants Pension Organization Economy of Iran Iranian labor law References External links Official website U.S.
The Caspian Sea basin reserves include 48 billion barrels of oil and gas reserves of 292 trillion cubic meters, the world's fourth largest gas reserve.
He enlisted the help of the Cossack Brigade to control the revolution, leaving the city of Tehran at their mercy.
On 20 September 2020, Britain, France, and Germany claimed that all UN sanctions relief on Iran would be terminated.
Branch insignia of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) refers to military emblems that may be worn on the uniform of the Iranian Guard Corps to denote membership in a particular area of expertise and series of functional areas.
Analysis in the international press considered the removal of Safavi to be a sign of change in the defense strategies of Iran, but the general policies of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps are not personally determined by its commander.
Oil embargo Following the nationalisation of British oil interests in Iran by Prime Minister Mossadegh, British warships blockaded the oil port of Abadan and on 22 August 1951 Britain imposed economic sanctions on the country.
The Basij are "the most visible symbol" of the Pasdaran's strength, whose members "can be seen on street corners in every Iranian city".
He was reappointed to the earlier post in 2022 and in 2023 he was re-appointed to the post of chairman of the Guardian Council.
Mostowfi ol-Mamalek (Persian: مستوفی‌الممالک) was one of the positions and titles of the Iranian court from the Ilkhanate to the Qajar era.
Human Rights in Iran: Hearings Before the Subcommittee on International Organizations of the Committee on International Relations.
The stated goal is to attract investment from Iranian expatriates and using their experience in stimulating foreign investments.
Ansari's other positions included the managing director of Khuzestan Water and Power Authority, governor general of the Khuzestan province and managing director of the Imperial Organization for Social Services.
It was held before Johann Kriegler (presiding), John Dugard SC, Margaret Ratner Kunstler, Michael Mansfield QC, Makau Mutua and Patricia Sellers.
They reportedly took over again for a short while in 258 H (872 CE), and the whole region was becoming so troublesome that in 259 H (874 CE) Musa resigned his governorship.
Natural Resources and Watershed Management Organization (Former name: Forests, Range and Watershed Management Organization) is an Iranian government organisation established in 2002.
It was later followed by Sudan's participation in the Yemeni war against Houthis and received aids from Qatar and Saudi Arabia, in exchange for lifting sanctions on Sudan by the United States.
Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has stated that Iran's progress had been set back years, possibly until 2015.
History The rule of the ancient Iranian Achaemenid Empire reached the Danubian delta (modern-day Dobruja), when in 512BC King Darius I subjugated the ancient Getae people living in the area.
Formation President Ali Khamenei who belonged to the right-wing faction of the IRP, was willing to nominate his like-minded as the head of government.
Subsequent to this incident, a second Iranian naval vessel, IRIS Bushehr, belonging to the Bandar Abbas class, requested permission to enter the Port of Colombo.
If such non-government legal persons have been established prior to the present amendment, they shall be entitled to the tax incentive mentioned in this Article, if they have any reinvestment.
The ministry has been called Jihad of Construction but it was merged with agriculture ministry in 2001 to form the Ministry of Agricultural Jihad.
The government of Shapour Bakhtiar is the last government during the Pahlavi dynasty that ended with the Islamic Revolution.
From 1965, South Africa alternated white and nonwhite ISMG teams respectively in even- and odd-numbered years.
More than one million Iranians (mostly women) have been arrested in the past year (May 2007 – May 2008) for violating the state dress code according to a May 2008 NBC Today Show report by Matt Lauer.
According to Trita Parsi, the founder and president of the National Iranian American Council, the main participants in these protests were different from those involved in the 2009 Iranian presidential election protests.
During his years with the Ogedeyid family, he gained reputation among the members of the ruling blood because he was well educated and versed in Old Uyghur language.
According to the statement, the Human Knowledge Association is currently unable to detect 100-nanometer particles remotely.
Salami claimed that "dozens of countries" had contacted Iran about the device, but clarified that Iran would not share its technology with the United States until American sanctions against Iran were lifted.
Tax According to Sayyed Mustafa Sayyed Hashemi, one of the Setad's officials, there is no difference between Setad and a private enterprise.
Under the new regime, it operated under the supervision of various state offices and ministries such as the Ministry of Culture, Ministry of Post, Telegraph and Telephones, Office of the Prime Minister and the Labor Ministry until 1947.
In search for a cure, the senior cleric identified Mojdehi as the best physician to diagnose the cleric's illness.
At that time, I was given the chairmanship of the delegation of the National Oil Company in the negotiations with the Consortium.
Alireza Arafi (born 1959) is an Iranian Shia cleric and politician who has served as a member of the Guardian Council since 2019, and a member of the Assembly of Experts since 2022.
The key objective of the IEAr project is to provide a large variety of stakeholders with a broad and impartial look at the Iranian elections legal framework, history (from 1967 onwards) and current developments.
This is due to not all of these administrations would continue to be governed by a beglerbegi after the 1630s.
Freydun Bet-Abram (Assyrian Neo-Aramaic: ܦ̮ܪܝܕܢ ܒܝܬ ܐܒܪܡ; 1891 – 2 October 1926), better known as Freydun Atturaya (ܦ̮ܪܝܕܢ ܐܬܘܪܝܐ), was an Assyrian national leader, politician, doctor and poet.
His premiership, however, was not to last long, and he resigned less than seven weeks later on 27 April, after Mohammad Mosaddegh had submitted another oil nationalisation bill to parliament two days earlier.
4030 call system has been launched by the Execution of Imam Khomeini's Order (Barakat Tel) and in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Medical Education and Iran Telecommunication in order to screen Iranian families at the field of COVID-19.
Professors His professors were Ali Meshkini, Muhammad Baqir al-Sadr, Kazem al-Haeri, Morteza Haeri Yazdi, Mohammad Fazel Lankarani, Hossein Vahid Khorasani, Jawad Tabrizi, Abdollah Javadi-Amoli, Morteza Motahhari and Mohammad-Taqi Mesbah-Yazdi.
Relationship with the Axis of Resistance According to researcher Phillip Smyth, Liwa Fatemiyoun, Liwa Zainabiyoun and Hezbollah Afghanistan were originally different groups, but showed such great overlap in ideology and membership by 2014 that they had become "incorporated".
After he stepped out of his car in Baharestan Square, he was shot three times by 21-year-old Mohammad Bokharaei, a member of Fada'iyan-e Islam.
The first airshow was held on Kish Island in 2002, when 11 foreign companies participated from France, Russia, United Kingdom, Ukraine, Germany, Czech Republic, Italy, The Netherlands, Pakistan, Slovakia and Switzerland.
He represented the Supreme Leader of Iran for Gilan Province, as well as leading prayers in Lahijan and Rasht.
In October 2022, he was sent to Moscow along with senior IRGC officials and a Supreme National Security Council official to finalize an agreement to send Shahed drones and surface-to-surface missiles to Russia to support its invasion of Ukraine.
The sanctions followed the execution of Navid Afkari, and also targeted Judge Mahmoud Sadeati for his role in Afkari's case.
Career His research in 1887 provided the landscape for official Iranian claims to the islands of Greater and Lesser Tunbs and Abu Musa.
In the 1971 elections she was elected to the Senate, the first female Senator to be elected (the previous female Senators had been appointed).
Political career Mirbaqiri fought in the Iran–Iraq War against the Ba'athist Iraqi forces as a member of 17th Ali ibn Abi Talib Division.
Health care The Iranian constitution entitles Iranians to basic health care, and most receive subsidized prescription drugs and vaccination programs.
Iran was reported to have purchased 18 mobile Musudan missiles (the extended range version of Soviet R-27 Zyb) with a 3,200-to-4,000 km range in 2005.
Despite this, Kurdish opposition groups have continued to call for solidarity in the nationwide protests and strikes.
Reports suggest that his opposition to the agreement stemmed from his family's stake in the Admiral Shipping Company, which profited from bypassing Western sanctions that the deal would have lifted.
In 2009 the American Enterprise Institute believed that the network consisted of 280 members, divided in 17 units.
Qavam himself held ministries of Interior and Foreign Affairs; while according to Ervand Abrahamian "gave five cabinet posts to his close supporters; yielded two others to court favorites; and handed the War Ministry to General Amir Ahmedi...
"To the Youth in Europe and North America" is an online open letter written on 21 January 2015 by Iran's Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.
In 1946, Governor Ali Mansur (in Persian: علی منصور), the rest of the remaining parts of the palace were destroyed and a new marble building was constructed instead, which has served as the office of the provincial governor till now.
In 2019 prosecutors stated that her case is still open so long as she has additional testimony to give.
The Sixth Term Despite his opposition to Mostowfi, Modarres was part of the party that encouraged Mostowfi to take his sixth term as prime minister.
Quotes and political views Meshkini was known for his unyielding support of the likes of Ahmadinejad and the hardline politicians of Iran.
Mostafa Mir-Salim (Persian: مصطفی میرسلیم; born 10 June 1947) is an Iranian engineer and conservative politician.
The Articles of Association of the Iranology Foundation were approved by the Higher Education Development Council of Iran on May 24, 1997.
He translated The Decameron (from Giovanni Boccaccio) and Nouvelli (from Eugène Scribe) in 1903–1904 from French.
Many of the group's commanders were veterans of previous Afghan conflicts, including: Sayyed Hakim, Hossein Fadaei Abdarchaya, Reza Khavari, and Seyyed Ibrahim.
Mohammad Nakhai who was appointed as labor minister was removed from the office on 28 August, and his successor was Gholam Hussain Foruhar.
شرح حال رجال ایران در قرن ۱۲ و ۱۳ و ۱۴ هجری [Biographies of [notable] personages of Iran in the 12th, 13th, and 14th/18th, 19th, and 20th centuries, vol.
The limitation on the final brew is only that it must be less than or equal to 2% TDS to distinguish from espresso-type coffee.
In 2015 Jarden was acquired by Newell-Rubbermaid, which changed its name to Newell Brands, the current owner of the Mr.
Launch In 2019, the company launched its line of flash-frozen coffee capsules at the Specialty Coffee Association of America expo and won best new product.
Achieving desired extraction An extraction yield of 18% to 22% is desirable for most traditional coffee beverages.
The first espresso machines were steam types, produced when a common boiler was piped to four group heads so that multiple types of coffee could be made at the same time.
Vietnamese usage also includes related terms such as cà phê kho and colloquial labels likening the filter to a sock (for example, cà phê bít tất).
The word originates from Arabic: طاس, romanized: ṭās, from the Persian: طاس, romanized: ṭās, meaning cup or bowl.
The design generically uses a lever, pumped by the operator, to pressurize hot water and send it through the coffee grounds.
In 2001, Housewares International bought the Breville companies in Australia, New Zealand and Hong Kong.
The acidity of cold and hot brew coffee is similar but cold brew coffee has a lower titratable acid concentration.
The company employs around 420 people at the Weggis site in 2021 and sells its coffee machines in 80 countries worldwide.
These were decorated with brightly coloured enamel and motifs that included musical instruments or military trophies.
Brewed coffee, if kept hot, will deteriorate rapidly in flavor, and reheating such coffee tends to give it a "muddy" flavor, as some compounds that impart flavor to coffee are destroyed if this is done.
Format and rules To qualify for the World Brewers Cup, contestants must win their respective national championship organized by affiliated national organizations.
A coffee cup or pot is placed on the bottom of the stand, and fine to medium-fine ground coffee is spooned into a dry bolsita.
One drawback of the electric roasting appliances is their small capacity: 4 to 8 ounces (110 to 230 g) for fluid-bed, and somewhat more for drum roaster.
Unlike a moka express, it does not use the pressure of steam to force the water through the coffee, relying instead on gravity.
When the lower chamber is almost empty, bubbles of steam mix with the upstreaming water, producing a characteristic gurgling noise—a signal that brewing should be stopped.
Once the beans are roasted each participant is given an opportunity to sample the aromatic smoke by wafting it towards them.
The thicker filter papers may also assist in removing more cafestol, a cholesterol-elevating compound found in coffee.
Yields of under 18% are considered under-extracted, or under-developed – desirable compounds have not been extracted to the fullest.
The production of professional coffee machines is carried out in the historical site of Gaggio Montano near Bologna.
Manual pour-over coffee preparation Pour-over methods are popular ways of making specialty drip coffee.
The company continues to produce espresso machines (as well as accessories) from classic manual machines to the innovative semi-automatic and super-automatic models recently added to the line.
Thermal transport When placed beneath a cup, saucers have very little direct influence on beverage cooling rate.
While the company distributes brands under its own name, it also supplies coffee under other notable brands such as Shipley Do-Nuts and Bright and Early Coffee.
(According to one source, the particle size should be 75–125 microns.) Strict connoisseurs insist that they must be hand-pounded in a wooden mortar, although it is difficult to do this while achieving a uniform fineness.
Comparison of systems The plastic and metal coffee capsules typically are used in a non-removable receptacle on the brewing device.
The Maas machines are distinguished by their universal design - black and silver, glass fronted machines all made to the same dimensions.
Giuseppe De'Longhi (born 24 April 1939) is an Italian billionaire businessman, and the president of De'Longhi.
57mm group models include the Anna (PL41), Anita (PL042), and Grace (PL81, discontinued); the Anita features a built-in conical burr grinder.
Hedrick subsequently awarded Lelit two of his three highest rankings on his June 2025 "Prosumer Espresso Machine Tier List," giving 'A' ratings to both the MaraX and Elizabeth models.
In response, 15-year-old developer Shane Brunswick created a website, save418.com, and established the "Save 418 Movement", asserting that references to 418 "I'm a teapot" in different projects serve as "a reminder that the underlying processes of computers are still made by humans".
Major wins National and world champions 1996 Road Race Mario Cipollini 1999 Road Race Salvatore Commesso Road Race Armin Meier 2002 Road Race Salvatore Commesso 2003 World Road Race Igor Astarloa External links Team Results on procyclingstats.com, sortable by year Team history on cyclingranking.com
A roasting profile describes the time the beans spend at each temperature during roasting including the final temperature prior to cooling.
Housewares International Limited The company was founded in 1957 as Housewares International Limited, and imported homeware products.
Furthermore, it hosts a set of microswitches that prevent the leakage of hot water under high pressure in case of unsuccessful or improper closure of the brewer itself.
The inner holes in the mugs' walls are designed in such a way that the mugs must be emptied in a unique sequence, or they will drain.
Eating is accomplished without utensils by tearing a piece of injera (strictly using the right hand), then scooping some stew, vegetables or salad with the bread.
In 2015, the competition was the subject of the documentary Barista, which followed competitors in the 2013 USBC.
See also Arabic tea Arab cuisine Coffee in Islam Home roasting coffee Green coffee Turkish coffee References Further reading Basan, Ghillie (2007).
Demitasse cups are small because they usually serve espresso, which is a stronger, more concentrated coffee, best served in smaller portions.
However, most early modern Europeans did not like coffee, which is an acquired taste, and especially they did not like the black, bitter Turkish version.
Travel mugs have a spill-proof lid with a sipping opening and in many cases, a narrower base, so that they will fit into the cup-holders that are built into many vehicles.
Louise Harpman, co-owner of the world's most extensive collection of coffee cup lids and co-author of the book Coffee Lids (Princeton Architectural Press, 2018), suggests that coffee cup lids "represent a major shift in American 'to-go' culture".
The first coffee press, which may have been made in France, was the modern coffee press in its rudimentary form – a metal or cheesecloth screen fitted to a rod that users would press into a pot of hot water and coffee grounds.
Some modern machines prepare various coffee styles such as mochas and lattes and use ground drip coffee, and some fresh-grind the coffee to order using a grinder in the machine.
In North Arabia, a darker variation known as qahwah shamāliyya (literally "Northern coffee") is prepared by roasting the beans for a longer time.
A zarf (plural: zarfs, zarves; Turkish: zarflar; Arabic: zuruuf) is a cup holder, usually of ornamented metal, for a coffee cup without a handle (demitasse or fincan).
Past winners See also World Butchers Challenge References External links World Barista Championship official site
In 1970, La Marzocco patented its first series of professional semi-automatic, dual-boiler machines named GS (Gruppo Saturo, saturated group), winning the Qualità e Cortesia-Toscana prize in 1971.
ISSpresso also offered the opportunity to study physical phenomena related to the fluid dynamics in microgravity of (pure and mixed) liquids at high pressure and temperature.
To some extent the tea will continue to steep even after the plunger is depressed, which may cause the tea remaining in the press to become bitter.
References External links Barista at IMDb Barista at Rotten Tomatoes Barista at Metacritic Barista on X
In 1996, the Miele Group established the Dongguan factory as a joint venture with Melitta, which became fully owned by Miele in 2009.
In 2019, they released the AeroPress Go, a travel-sized model with a reduced capacity, smaller accessories which assemble inside of a plastic mug with a lid.
These cups were tall due to the habit of drinking the liquid layer at the top, with the preparation sediment left at the bottom.
Ivory was carved in the same way as wood; however, its greater value meant that more care was needed to avoid mistakes.
Some of the machines, particularly older models, utilize powdered instant coffee mixed with hot water, and some of these offer condiments such as cream and sugar.
It is specified in RFC 2324, published on 1 April 1998 as an April Fools' Day RFC, as part of an April Fools prank.
There are very few irreligious individuals, and participation in religious activity is generally high.
Also, these tongs still can be used to serve small candy, string beans, slices of cucumber, celery sticks.
The unanimous support from the aforementioned projects and the general public prompted Nottingham to begin the process of having 418 marked as a reserved HTTP status code, ensuring that 418 will not be replaced by an official status code for the foreseeable future.
Singapore The name kopitiam symbolizes Singapore's multilingual culture: "kopi" is Malay for coffee, while "tiam" is Hokkien (or Fukienese) for shop.
A new model of the Senseo machine, the Senseo New Generation, was launched in selected markets in 2007.
He wrote: "Most persons of distinction in Holland roast their own berries." In the 19th century, various patents were awarded in the U.S.
The captured hot air causing mild micro-turbulences on the underside of the coffee grounds were said to help avoid clogging.
It is known in French as a cafetière à piston or simply cafetière (also the usage in Dutch), though some speakers might also use genericized trademarks, such as Melior or Bodum.
Since the early 2010s, Italy has seen a steady growth in the number of coffee houses serving specialty coffee, which cater to the growing local market for higher quality coffee.
An appeal in court changed this patent matter, and the new judgement was that the other coffee makers were infringing on the European patent in Belgium.
This was initially only available as a thank-you gift to importers and vendors of Rancilio's restaurant-grade coffee machines.
The brand was owned by Mars Drinks, a division of Mars, Incorporated until October 1, 2018, when Lavazza purchased Mars's coffee units.
Typically, when the coffee boils up through the jebena's neck, it is poured in and out of another container to cool it.
The WBC was dominated in its early years by Scandinavian baristas and was held in Europe or the United States from its inception until 2007 when it was hosted in Tokyo, Japan.
Cuisine Typically, Eritrean cuisine consists of various stews (tsebhi) made from vegetables and meat, and served atop a large, flat sourdough bread called injera, tayta, "shuro", "alicha" and "hamly".
In 1951, following the 1950s postwar reconstruction and economic boom in Germany, Krups moved into the lucrative consumer appliance arena.
A mug without a handle, i.e., a bowl or a beaker, is topologically equivalent to a saucer, which is quite evident when a raw clay bowl is flattened on a potter's wheel.
In April 2009, the company presented its pressure profile technology at SCAA on a prototype, which, for the first time, enabled the barista to have direct pressure control at any point during extraction.
Current machines Tassimo offers five models of single-cup coffee maker compatible with the "home-use" T-discs.
Another type of demitasse has a glass cup set into a metal cup-holder frame, called a zarf in Turkey.
Discs containing milk use UHT milk, not powdered milk, but are no longer available in the United States.
Cafetière A cafetière (coffee plunger, French press in US English) requires coffee of a coarser grind than does a drip-brew coffee filter, as finer grounds will seep through the press filter and into the drink.
Coffee makers that use pressure to force water through ground coffee are called espresso makers, and they produce espresso coffee.
In November 2020, De'Longhi announced the acquisition of Capital Brands, which specialized in mixers, for 420 million euros.
At the end of 2015, the company's income statement registered a total revenue of €172.4 million, 6.9% more than 2014 (€161.2 million).
In addition, the espresso method of extraction yielded higher antioxidant activity than other brewing methods.
Gaggia began selling these the following year, using advertising to emphasize the lack of steam and the presence of crema.
Care of the bolsita The bolsita is always washed and dried between each use, as a dry bolsita produces the best results.
The brand has been described as "the queen of espresso machines." In 2019, La Pavoni was acquired by Smeg and operates as part of the Smeg Group.
The ducts of the hydraulic circuit are made from steel, not plastic, to support operational loads up to 400 bars (5,800 psi).
See also Single-serve coffee container References External links A Modo Mio Lavazza: a casa come al bar
Similar steam pressure-driven devices were invented in Paris by Alexandre Lebrun (1838) and in Berlin by H.
In 2001, La Marzocco began an eight-year sponsorship of the World Barista Championship, serving as the official espresso machine supplier from 2001 to 2008.
Local coffee manufacturers now mix instant coffee powder with non-dairy creamer or whitener and sugar, and market the 3-in-1 mixture as white coffee as well.
100 Jahre Melitta - Geschichte eines Markenunternehmens [100 years Melitta - History of a brand company] (in German) (1 ed.).
Marketed since spring 1927 and up into, at least, the 1940s, these coffee makers were available as stand-alone devices for home use, but were also adopted by various other German coffee roasters (including Maschinenfabrik Bremen (Bremen, Germany), Georg Schrader & Co.
Fortified coffee Red Eye is one espresso shot added to a cup of coffee (typically 210–480 ml, 7–16 oz).
It was originally constructed out of copper, until 1886, when the material was switched to aluminum.
A barista can acquire these skills by attending training classes, but they are more commonly learned on the job.
In February 2011, Green Mountain announced an agreement with Dunkin' Donuts to make Dunkin’ Donuts coffee available in single-serve K-Cup pods for use with Keurig Single-Cup Brewers.
Different devices and methods have been employed by competitors at the WBrC, including French press, pour-over, modified AeroPress and other hybrid techniques.
The current models of the Anna and Anita (PL41TEM and PL042TEMD) include PID controllers to manage brew temperature and a pressure gauge to measure brew pressure.
Organization The WBC is operated by World Coffee Events (WCE), and is one of seven World Coffee Championships which was established by the Specialty Coffee Association of America (SCAA) and the Speciality Coffee Association of Europe (SCAE) to run a portfolio of international coffee events.
Arabic coffee has a prominent place in traditional Arab holidays and special events such as Ramadan and Eid.
The first burr grinder for home use with completely vertical grinding and a special design to minimize noise during grinding.
Vitaperk LLC, often stylized VitaPerk, is a Michigan based, domestic limited liability company that produces and sells nutraceuticals and dietary supplements in the form of a fortified, non-dairy coffee additive.
A creamer is a small pitcher or jug designed for holding cream or milk to be served with tea or coffee in the Western tradition.
Turkish coffee (Turkish: Türk kahvesi) is a style of coffee prepared in a cezve using very finely ground coffee beans without filtering.
There are several manual drip-brewing devices on the market, offering more control over brewing parameters than automatic machines, and which incorporate stopper valves and other innovations that offer greater control over steeping time and the proportion of coffee to water.
History The coffee vending machine was invented in the United States by the Rudd-Melikian company of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1947, and the machine was named the Kwik Kafe.
In Europe, it is only available in powder form as a coffee creamer in one or two varieties depending on the country with no added flavors.
The lettering changed color several times and the plastic changed from clear to gray, but the brewer's design was otherwise unchanged between these versions.
In November 2024, the Federal Court of Australia dismissed claims brought by Douwe Egberts against Vittoria Coffee alleging passing off, misleading and deceptive conduct, and trade mark infringement.
The term “white coffee” in Britain usually means coffee that has some kind of cream or milk added to it, and distinct from “black coffee” which has no dairy components at all.
Keurig has over 400 varieties and over 60 brands of coffee and other beverages through its own and partnership-licensed brands.
The original design and many current models are made from aluminium with Bakelite handles, though they are sometimes made out of stainless steel or other alloys.
Jebena (Amharic: ጀበና, romanized: ǧäbäna, Arabic: جبنة, romanized: jabana) is a traditional Ethiopian and Eritrean flask made of pottery and used to brew coffee.
However, this method is more suitable for light teas and is not suitable for masala chai (which must be boiled) or Chinese tea (which tends to be diffused for a long time, with tea leaves reused as a rule).
In all, the company operates 13 production facilities and 30 international subsidiaries that support sales to 75 countries worldwide.
This saw the boycott of sugar between 1792-1793 and 1825-1829 as a way to force parliament to halt the trafficking of enslaved people.
How tightly the coffee is packed impacts how quickly the coffee extracts and the strength of the brew.
(which was actually made for the movie from a Krups coffee grinder) References Further reading Shrum, Rebecca K.
Victor coffee mug During World War II, the United States Navy put out a bid for American companies to design a coffee mug that was resistant to falling over and could survive use on ships.
The company originally began as a wholesale reseller of espresso machines, before later branching out into manufacturing.
Other coffee drinks Malaysia In Malaysia, the original white coffee started in the Old Town of Ipoh and was a drink made from beans roasted in margarine, ground, brewed and served with sweetened condensed milk.
Because of the ritualistic nature of the bunna ceremony, if a jebena is not used to prepare and boil the coffee, by all accounts, a bunna ceremony is not taking place.
In 2023, the SCA updated the rules and regulations and now allow the use of infused and co-fermented coffees in baristas' routines.
A frappuccino is a latte, mocha, or macchiato mixed with crushed ice and flavorings (such as vanilla or hazelnut if requested by the customer) and blended.
Vietnamese companies sell an imitation kopi luwak, made using an enzyme soak which they claim replicates the civet's digestive process.
At the USBC, competitors must make three courses of beverages within a fifteen-minute time limit and are judged by seven different judges.
La Pavoni had a technological and functional appeal but, as a small steam engine, also had a nostalgic charm.
Farther north, the trend moves toward slightly lighter roasts, while outside Italy a wide range is popular.
The device uses an infusion method for brewing coffee with a stainless steel filter and a ceramic pot.
In fact, there are two phenomena that contribute to this effect: on the one hand, the Bernoulli equation is used to explain it, on the other hand, the adhesion between the liquid and the spout material is also important.
while preserving the values that underpin its Italian identity.” The company has continued to operate as part of the Breville Group since.
The coffee can then be prepared for drinking by adding hot water to the concentrate at a water-to-concentrate ratio of approximately 3:1, but can be adjusted to the drinker's preference.
The espresso machines are produced by Eugster/Frismag in Romanshorn, which also manufactures machines for other brands such as Siemens, Bosch and AEG.
Geschichte und Geschichten um Melitta - geröstet, gemahlen und gefiltert - zum 50jährigen Bestehen der Melitta-Werke Bentz & Sohn in Minden [History and stories around Melitta - roasted, grinded and filtered - at the 50th anniversary of Melitta-Werke Bentz & Sohn in Minden] (in German) (1 ed.).
produced its own British-manufactured coffee makers "standard" and "Cappucino" around 1955–1965 that also bore the trademark "Atomic".
In 1989, Natural Brown coffee filters made from unbleached pulp were introduced, which kept unwanted by-products from leaching into the environment.
The company employs over 450 people in offices in Europe and the United States, and has authorized dealers in over 100 countries worldwide.
"Even so," responded Washington, "we pour legislation into the senatorial saucer to cool it." though the earliest publication of this supposed interchange appears to be 1872.
Among the variations to the moka pot design that have been introduced since the 1930s are those that integrate an electric heating element in the boiler, expedite brew time, create milk froth, and allow microwave brewing.
Tassimo T-Discs are currently offered under brands owned by JDE Peet's or Kraft Foods, including Gevalia, Maxwell House, Mastro Lorenzo, Nabob, Carte Noire, Jacobs, and Suchard.
At the end of the first round, the competitors with the six highest scores advance to the semifinals round and join the twelve competitors who earned a bye from CoffeeChamps.
History The company Cantarella Brothers was founded in Sydney in 1947 by brothers Orazio and Carmelo Cantarella.
No matter what roasting method is used, the weather can affect the results, especially if roasting outdoors.
Extraction Proper brewing of coffee requires using the correct amount of coffee grounds, extracted to the correct degree (largely determined by the correct time), at the correct temperature using the water of balanced mineral composition.
Variations In Bulgaria, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Czechia, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia, Slovakia and Slovenia, the cezve is a long-necked coffee pot.
Despite the joking nature of its origins, or perhaps because of it, the protocol has remained as a minor presence online.
It is typically brewed in a dallah or cezve, and served in a small cup decorated with a pattern, known as a finjān.
On 6 August 2017, Nottingham requested that references to 418 "I'm a teapot" be removed from the programming language Go and subsequently from Python's Requests and ASP.NET's HttpAbstractions library as well.
A jebena is usually made of clay and has a spherical base, a neck and pouring spout and a handle where the neck connects with the base.
Older models used instant coffee or concentrated liquid coffee and hot or boiling water, and provided condiments such as cream and sugar.
Pod manufacturers note that these problems are generally reduced by the use of automatic machines and pod technology.
Ristretto, one of the strongest traditional coffee drinks, can contain up to 0.75 g of solubles per 15 gram serving (over 5% of total volume), making it more than four times as strong as the typical coffee beverage.
History Commercial paper coffee filters were invented in Germany by Melitta Bentz in 1908 and are commonly used for drip brew all over the world.
Acquisition of a majority stake in RC Group, a leading player in datacenter cooling, in 2006 has strengthened its presence in the HVACR market.
References External links Wigomat: Eine Hommage an die erste Filterkaffeemaschine der Welt (archived 2018-03-20)
Liebeck was wearing cotton sweatpants, which absorbed the coffee and held it against her skin, scalding her thighs, buttocks, and groin.
The dallah has a distinctive form, featuring a bulbous body that tapers to a "waistline" in the middle and flares out at the top, covered by a spire-shaped lid topped with a tall finial and held by a sinuous handle.
A dallah (Arabic: دَلَّة), also known as bakraj (Arabic: بَكْرَج), is a traditional Arabic coffee pot used for centuries to brew and serve qahwa, a spicy, bitter coffee traditionally served during feasts like Eid al-Fitr and made through a multi-step ritual.
This is reflected in language; when people say "meet for coffee," they primarily mean meet to socialize or talk.
A dallah can be made of brass, steel, silver, or luxury metals such as 24-karat gold for special occasions or use by royalty.
Lastly, once the desired brewing time is complete the AeroPress is either turned right-side-up and plunged normally or held at an angle and plunged horizontally.
Package teapot HTCPCP-TEA implementation by David Skinner save418.com error418.net Archived 2021-01-07 at the Wayback Machine
Coffee was introduced to Sweden in the late 17th century, and today coffee plays a significant role in Swedish culture, characterised by Sweden ranking among the world's top coffee consumers per capita, and a distinct tradition of coffee breaks known as Fika.
In Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, France, Sweden, Spain, Poland, Russia, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Australia, South Africa and China Jura has its own distribution companies or joint ventures.
Coffee may be intentionally over-extracted to achieve increased strength while reducing the amount of ground coffee required.
When coffee began to be served in cardboard cups in the late 20th century, the zarf became disposable as well.
To expedite brewing, a weighted valve called Cremavent has been added as a pressure regulator on top of the nozzle that allows pressure to build up inside the water tank in a manner similar to a pressure cooker.
She patented her invention and formed a company, Melitta, to sell the coffee filters (in a format and size later named "1"), hiring her husband and two sons to assist her as the first employees.
As for the Isomac "La splendida", it wore a black sticker Atomic cappuccino which was applied on both white and red models.
Heat transfer through the bottom of the cup is small relative to heat lost through the top of the cup.
This delivers the hot water to a cone-shaped coffee grind holder, which drips into a carafe at 92 to 96 °C (198 to 205 °F), considered an optimal temperature range.
The role of the sensory judge is to score the competitor solely on the quality of the beverage served and customer service.
(Just one machine was given an 'A' grade in this survey.) See also Bialetti De'Longhi Faema FrancisFrancis Gaggia La Marzocco La Pavoni Rancilio List of Italian companies External links LELIT Official YouTube Channel == References ==
Coffee Joulies are small, stainless-steel capsules containing a phase-change material; the capsules were designed to be placed in a cup of coffee in order to cool coffee that is too hot then slowly release the heat to keep the coffee warm.
To avoid the teapot effect, the pot can be filled less, so that a larger tilting angle is necessary from the start.
Some versions are marketed to hikers and backpackers not wishing to carry a heavy, metal percolator or a filter using drip brew.
Reports indicated that household appliances from De'Longhi, initially produced for the Ukrainian market, were redirected to Russia and sold through marketplaces and electronics store chains.
The optimal ratio between extraction and strength is represented by a rectangle in the center of the chart – within that area, coffee is neither over- nor under-extracted, and neither too strong nor weak.
The four judges award points on a variety of factors including the taste and balance of the barista's beverages as well as their presentation.
History Lelit was founded in 1986 by Maria Bellini and her husband Edoardo Epis in Baitella, Italy, near Brescia.
Moka coffee characteristics Brewed coffee flavor, including that of a moka pot depends greatly on bean variety, roast level, fineness of grind, water profile, and the level of heat used.
Overseas visitors finding the margarine-roasted coffee beans unorthodox (due to their slight caramelized flavor) are often misled into thinking that there is a type of coffee bean endemic to Malaysia called the "white coffee bean".
and DLRadiators allowed De'Longhi to enter the commercial HVACR (heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration) market.
In 1998, Sunbeam Corporation (eventually known as American Household, Inc.) purchased Signature Brands.
In the same year, Thermoplan was awarded the 2004 Innovation Award from the Central Swiss Chamber of Commerce.
It uses the pressure of the boiling water to force it to a chamber above the grounds, but relies on gravity to pass the water down through the grounds, where it then repeats the process until shut off by an internal timer.
In the 1930s, Melitta revised the original filter, tapering it into the shape of a cone and adding ribs.
One variation also called "French pull" or "reverse French press" uses a pull-design: the coffee grounds are placed in a mesh basket, which is then pulled into the lid after brewing, trapping the grounds out of the coffee.
Rudd, president of the Rudd-Melikian company, stated that Kwik Kafe machines purveyed 250,000 cups of coffee on a daily basis.
Devices similar to the SoftBrew include manual drip coffee makers, French press coffee makers, the Empot, and, to a limited extent, other pour-over and drip coffee filters.
The Muslims are concentrated in the eastern and western lowlands,& highlands whereas the Christians mainly inhabit the highlands.
Later lid designs like the Viora have improved on Solo Traveler's design, which has too small a vent to allow sufficient air to enter while drinking.
His cockiness provides a stark contrast to the humble obsessiveness of the other four personalities.
Caffitaly Systems also produces the CBTL Capsule System for The Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf and the MAP Italian Coffee Capsule System for Map Coffee Australia.
In January 2015, the company made a similar deal with Dr Pepper Snapple Group, but without a stockholder stake.
Where Gaggia saw them as niche, high-end appliances for specialized operators in commercial establishments that could afford them, Valente saw opportunity in a larger market for inexpensive, automated machines.
The Thermoplan CT1 and Thermoplan CTM are designed for operation by untrained workers; they feature an inbuilt milk-frother drawing milk from an internal milk fridge, that allows for complete one-click beverage making.
In Ethiopia, a small pottery cup called a sini or finjal is used to contain the coffee poured from the jebena.
This is because less flavor is available for extraction from the coffee grounds as the brewing process progresses.
It had the key elements of a conventional percolator: the broad base for boiling, the upflow central tube and a perforated basket hanging on it.
While the name suggests that this method was used by cowboys, presumably on the trail around a campfire, it is used by others.
Rancilio also offered a new color option, "Silva Black," for an additional fee, with a matte case to match the new black grouphead cover.
Equipment The most common roasting machines are of two basic types: drum and hot-air, although there are others including packed-bed, tangential and centrifugal roasters.
Wooden zarfs, of which very few remain, were favored because of the natural aroma of the wood from which they were fashioned.
His workaround of freezing coffee in ice trays inspired him, and he began experimenting with improving this method.
People with milk allergies need to be aware that non-dairy creamer may contain sodium caseinate, a milk protein.
The local culture consists of various, and often quite similar, traditions practiced by the nation's many Cushitic and Ethiopian Semitic-speaking Afro-Asiatic ethnic groups, in addition to those practiced by the area's Nilotic minorities.
V1 (1997-July 2006) Even within what is generally referred to as the first version of the Silvia, Rancilio did make some alterations.
For the open service, competitors may utilize any whole bean coffee of their choosing and must also accompany their beverage preparation with a 10-minute presentation.
The decision was appealed by both McDonald's and Liebeck in December 1994, but the parties settled out of court for an undisclosed amount.
History Alfonso Bialetti first acquired his metal-working skills by working for a decade in the French aluminium industry.
In 1950, Melvin Morse and Dick Borne of Presto Foods developed "Mocha Mix Coffee Creamer", which was the first commercial non-dairy creamer and the first product with the term “coffee creamer” in the name.
In Italian, it is known as a caffettiera a stantuffo; in German as a Pressstempelkanne, Stempelkanne ("stamp pot"), Stabfilterkanne, Kaffeepresse ("coffee press") or Bistrokanne.
While vacuum coffee makers generally were excessively complex for everyday use, they were prized for producing a clear brew, and were quite popular until the middle of the twentieth century.
Seven grams of grounds are used to make a 25 ml shot of espresso (this comes to 280 g/L, but the amount of water used is actually more than 25 ml because some stays with the grounds).
Espresso machines are made to accept water directly from a cold water line supply, common in commercial installations, or from a separate tank that must be filled with water by hand.
More modern jebena's may be made of porcelain or metal, resembling a more traditional western coffee pot.
Hot water (93–96 °C (199–205 °F) is then poured through the coffee and filter, depositing brewed coffee into the flask.
Unlike a standard percolator, the moka pot never sends brewed coffee back through the coffee grounds.
Coffee pods are made by a variety of manufacturers and are interchangeable between brand of pod and model of pod brewer most of the time.
Dual boiler (DB) Finally, in some espresso machines for commercial or home use, water for brewing is heated in a separate chamber, which requires two separate boilers.
History Although coffee was probably discovered in Ethiopia, it was in Turkey around the 13th century that it became popular as a beverage.
The company transformed into a cigarette wholesaler and after World War II it became an operator of cigarette vending machines.
Coffee cup sleeve Coffee cup sleeves are roughly cylindrical sleeves that fit tightly over handle-less paper coffee cups to insulate the drinker's hands from hot coffee.
Green coffee beans can be roasted in a convection oven provided that the beans are spread out in only one layer on a perforated baking tray with raised sides.
Along with the shop's co-founders, the shop convinced the owners of the historic Maxwell House Hotel to use their coffee, forming Maxwell House Coffee.
Viewers are introduced into the elevation of the everyday drink, into a craft culture not unlike that of beer and wine.
The dallah plays such an important role in the identity of Gulf Cooperation Council countries that it is featured in public artwork and on monetary coins.
'bartender') is a person, usually a coffeehouse employee, who prepares and serves espresso-based coffee drinks and other beverages.
In the 1950s just as instant coffee was becoming a popular coffee drink, specialty coffeehouses began opening to cater to the connoisseur, offering a more traditionally brewed beverage.
For roasting, many people used such simple methods as a layer of beans on a metal sheet in the oven, or beans stirred in a cast-iron skillet over a fire.
History In 1976 Arthur Eugster started manufacturing electric home appliances such as egg cookers and waffle irons.
In cases such as the FIFA World Cup and the Stanley Cup, the competition itself may grow to take on the name of the trophy that is awarded to the winner.
The latter part of the reign of George II and early reign of George III exhibited a very large variety of patterns pierced and chased onto the tongs.
Similar coffee makers In the 1880s, Max Thürmer, a coffee roaster of Dresden, Germany, founded in 1879, advertised Karlsbad coffee and somewhat later also coffee makers (of unknown type) in various newspapers.
Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz purchased the company after trying a cup brewed by a Clover machine and declaring it to be "the best cup of brewed coffee I have ever tasted".
Coffee-mate Original also contains small amounts of dipotassium phosphate, to prevent coagulation; mono- and diglycerides, used as an emulsifier; sodium aluminosilicate, an anticaking agent; artificial flavor; and annatto color.
Further reducing the heat lost through the bottom of the cup has little effect on the cooling rate of the beverage.
Coffee and water, usually with added sugar, is brought to the boil in a special pot called cezve in Turkey, and often called ibrik elsewhere.
The earliest surviving roasting implements were thin, circular, often perforated pans made from metal or porcelain, used in the 15th century in the Ottoman Empire and Greater Persia.
Large "ceremonial" or feasting cups, sometimes called grace cups or "welcome cups", and drinking horns, including ivory, with metal mounts, were important prestige pieces, typically too large to drink from all evening, so passed around or drunk from once.
Kopi luwak is produced mainly on the Indonesian islands of Sumatra, Java, Bali, Sulawesi, and in East Timor.
In early 2016 the German city of Hamburg banned coffee capsules from state-run buildings on environmental grounds.
The company Web site said in 2018 that it had been roasting coffee in Cherry Hill for more than 50 years.
Melitta USA Melitta USA, headquartered in Clearwater, Florida, is part of the privately held Melitta Group of Minden, Germany.
This sugar was being supplied by large plantations run by the British in the Caribbean, by enslaved or indentured people.
The Antwerp ruling affects the patents on the pods, but does not affect the patents on the Senseo machine itself.
See also Erlenmeyer flask Chemex filter system (FP-1, FP-2, FP-2N, FS-100, FSU-100, FC-100) Bodum Pour Over (a similar looking metal filter holder) Hario Drip Pot Woodneck (a similar looking cloth filter holder) References External links Chemex Coffeemakers & Filters – Official Website
Since, apart from the fill level, most of the influencing variables cannot be changed (at least not sufficiently precisely in practice), the only way to avoid the teapot effect is usually to choose a suitable geometry for the pot.
The machine includes pre-set programs for latte, cappuccino, espresso, black coffee and white coffee although it can be configured with the Thermoplan Service Master Card.
Jura is a Swiss developer and distributor of automatic coffee centers, which it sells in over 50 countries.
Capsules iperEspresso capsules contain a complete extraction group that replaces the traditional percolation process with a two-stage extraction.
On 5 October 2020, Python 3.9 released with an updated HTTP library including 418 IM_A_TEAPOT status code.
Long black is similar to Americano it can be prepared in different order (a double shot of espresso is added to water instead of vice versa) and is often served in a similar cup to a Flat white (6 oz); Most common in Australia and New Zealand but regularly found in speciality coffee shops.
Some people pour the hot tea or coffee from the cup into the saucer; the increased surface area of the liquid exposed to the air increases the rate at which it cools, allowing the drinker to consume the beverage quickly after preparation.
White coffee is usually purchased pre-ground due to the fact that the beans are harder than regular coffee, making them difficult to grind, even using a commercial grinder.
Construction The early tongs were scissor-like, occasionally in fancy shapes like storks with long beaks or puppets grabbing the sugar with their hands.
Eritrean variants of the jebena are made in a similar fashion, but only possess one spout for water to be poured in from, and for coffee to be poured out from.
History The competition started in 2002 and was initially referred to as the North American Barista Competition.
In 2016, significant changes were made to the competition format: Grinders were now provided by the competition's partner (Mahlkönig), new models of espresso machines were introduced, and the cappuccino was replaced by a "milk drink" component.
A Ho Chi Minh City net-filter venue was included in a New York Times list of coffee addresses in the city.
Coffee house A related but separate translation of the Italian caffetteria is coffee house or café: an establishment in which caffè was traditionally made with a moka pot.
Some sources claim that white coffee is more highly caffeinated than darker roasted coffee, but this is debated.
Named after the Yemeni city of Mokha, it was popularized by Italian aluminum vendor Alfonso Bialetti and his son Renato starting from 1933.
Usage The status code 418 is used as an Easter egg in some websites, such as Google.com's "I'm a teapot" easter egg.
It subsequently expanded into other kitchen products, such as a related tea maker, juicer, and food dehydrator, and integrated wireless technology into a "smart" version of its coffeemaker.
Karlsbad coffee makers consist of four parts (a coffee pot, a coffee strainer/filter, a water spreader/distributor, and a lid) all made out of porcelain, and they exist in a number of different shapes of unknown origin.
Etymology and inflection The word barista comes from Italian, where it means a "bartender" who typically works behind a counter, serving hot drinks (such as espresso), cold alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, and snacks.
Presentation rules At the Qualifying Competitions, baristas serve two courses of espresso-based beverages consisting of espressos and signature drinks for two scoring sensory judges, two non-scoring guest judges or judges-in-training, two technical judges, and a head judge.
Operation The machine has conditions of use that are similar to the traditional ones, in order to facilitate the operations of the astronauts without requiring specific training.
Torrefacto refers to a particular process of roasting coffee beans, common in Spain, Paraguay, Portugal, Mexico, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Uruguay and Argentina.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has stated that products with sodium caseinate may contain low levels of lactose.
The United States Barista Championship (USBC) is an annual American coffee-brewing competition designed to evaluate baristas on their skills in espresso-based drink preparation and service.
Rancilio began collaborating with McDonald's in 2000, partnering in the development of the latter's McCafé initiative.
The Chemex Coffeemaker is a manual pour-over style glass coffeemaker, invented by Peter Schlumbohm in 1941, manufactured by the Chemex Corporation in Chicopee, Massachusetts.
In fast pouring, the liquid flows out of the spout in an arc without dripping, so it is given a relatively high velocity with which the liquid moves away from the edge (see Torricelli outflow velocity).
It can be made with various types of coffee beans and roast levels, allowing for a wide range of flavors and strengths, despite the widespread myth that it is made with dark-roast coffee beans.
The espresso is always served with a saucer and demitasse spoon, and sometimes with a complimentary wrapped chocolate and a small glass of water.
The iced cappuccino ("ice cap"), sold at coffee chain Tim Horton's, is a popular ice-blended drink in Canada.
This method of roasting produces somewhat less smoke than oven or stove-top but it still requires good ventilation.
Products Espresso machines Commercial espresso machines All commercial machines are available in 2, 3 except the Linea Classic S (also 1 and 4); the Linea PB, the GB5 and FB80 (also 4); the Strada X (also available in 1 group).
In the 1970´s, Maas International incorporated coffee, beverages and snacks in its vending machines.
The portafilter forms a seal with the espresso machine's gasket, and directs high-pressure hot water through the coffee puck.
Advantages Enjoying coffee made from freshly roasted beans is one of the major driving factors in the popularity of home roasting.
In Italy, Giordano Robbiati applied a small yellow sticker bearing the Atomic trademark on a small copper and aluminium moka pot.
The modern dallah is a more typically practical vessel, and even automatic dallahs and Thermos dallahs are available to the modern coffee drinker.
In the most common devices, coffee grounds are placed into a paper or metal filter inside a funnel, which is set over a glass or ceramic coffee pot, a cooking pot in the kettle family.
Handling of a used moist coffee pod is not necessary if the brewing device has a removable filter tray.
Products FLAVIA claims its patented technology brews drinks in a single-serve "Fresh Pack," which means that the pack is the actual brewing chamber.
When coffee was eventually popularised, what was served was not genuine Turkish coffee, but a product heavily diluted with water (much weaker than modern espresso) or milk, and sweetened with sugar.
The company was organized in 4 regions, EMEA (Europe Middle-East and Africa), Asia Pacific, Latin America and North America Through its wholly owned subsidiary Spengler in Germany and China, Maas developed new and innovative product lines.
Brewing coffee Coffee is brewed by first folding the paper filter into shape by using the folded side with a printed number 3, where the pour spout is located and placing it into the neck of the flask.
Placing a saucer on top of a cup, however, inhibits evaporative cooling and is thus an effective way of reducing the cooling rate so that the drink remains warmer for longer.
History Holton "Rex" Diamond, an employee of Rich Products, performed experiments from 1943 to 1945 using a "[g]elationous form of soybean protein" to make a "soy cream" that would not form curds when mixed with coffee.
The method spread in 20th-century Saigon and is associated with the city's Chinese Vietnamese community, including the Chợ Lớn area, where cloth-filter coffee was sold as a working-class street beverage alongside other brewing styles such as phin coffee.
A coffee capsule differs from a coffee pod in that the coffee is packed in a plastic or aluminum package instead of a paper filter, and it is usually designed for use with a single brand or system and is therefore not interchangeable with other systems.
Drip brew coffee makers largely replaced the coffee percolator (a device combining boiling, drip-brewing and steeping) in the 1970s due to the percolator's tendency to over-extract coffee, thereby making it bitter.
La Marzocco, founded in 1927 in Florence by Giuseppe and Bruno Bambi, is an Italian company specializing in high-end espresso machines.
Although it is tempting to grasp the body of the mug covering the visible holes and drink the liquid in the usual manner, this would pour the liquid through hidden perforations near the mug's top.
The best-known rider competing for a team sponsored by Faema was 5-time Tour de France champion Eddy Merckx.
For the compulsory service, competitors prepare three coffee beverages utilizing the same whole bean coffee provided to them by the competition organizers.
This culminated in 1941, when Italy lost its African territories and all imports of coffee were halted.
The use of pressure makes it capable of brewing highly concentrated coffee, comparable to espresso, but it can also be used to brew filter-strength coffee and cold brew.
World AeroPress Championship The World AeroPress Championship is an international fan-led AeroPress brewing competition.
Coffee and Espresso Machines Verismo 801 and Thermoplan Black & White The Verismo 801 was a superautomatic coffee machine designed exclusively for Starbucks, until discontinued in 2008.
The use of a milk derivative prompts some individuals and organizations – such as vegans and Jewish dietary law authorities – to classify the product as "dairy" rather than nondairy.
In the United States of America, where the product is manufactured by Nestlé in Glendale, Arizona, the product is available in liquid, liquid concentrate and powdered forms.
A Consumer Reports review determined that the coffee taste is high-quality, yet the process of brewing it is complex and does not justify its high-ticket price.
Batch brewing keeps coffee available during peak hours and supports faster service from a single pot.
Breville Group Limited In 2008, Housewares International Limited officially changed its name to the Breville Group Limited.
Preparation The boiler (marked A in the diagram) is filled with water to an etched line (or slightly below the safety release valve).
The stated goal of the competition is to showcase the craft and skill of filter coffee brewing by hand, promoting manual coffee brewing and quality of service.
According to her daughter, "the burns and court proceedings (had taken) their toll" and in the years following the settlement Liebeck had no quality of life.
He has since become the first US Barista to win the World Barista Championship in London, England, in 2010.
The following year, La Marzocco introduced the GS/3 model, and also launched the "Songwa Estate Project", a non-profit joint venture aiming to provide educational experiences for members of the specialty coffee industry.
Brew pitchers are most commonly 89 millilitres (3 US fl oz), which is sufficient for any espresso other than a large (double or triple) lungo, but pitchers may also be found in 150 millilitres (5 US fl oz) and even 240 millilitres (8 US fl oz) sizes.
It is similar in principle to the competing Nespresso and Tassimo capsule systems, in which a sealed capsule containing a premeasured amount of coffee is inserted into the machine, through which hot water is forced at high pressure into a coffee cup.
Boiling water is poured slowly over the coffee grounds, and the liquid seeps through, making coffee, which drips into the waiting container.
McDonald's asserts that the outcome of the case was a fluke, and attributed the loss to poor communications and strategy by an unfamiliar insurer representing a franchise.
Interest among younger customers and visitors seeking older Ho Chi Minh City coffee practices has also been reported.
As with the serving of tea in China and Japan, the serving of coffee in Turkey was a complex, ritualized process.
Name The name cezve is of Turkish origin, where it is a borrowing from Arabic: جِذوَة (jadhwa or jidhwa, meaning 'ember').
Application of the title Baristas generally operate a commercial espresso machine, and their role is preparing and pulling the shot; the degree to which this is automated or done manually varies significantly, ranging from push-button operation to an involved manual process.
A translation of Al-Jaziri's manuscript traces the spread of coffee from Arabia Felix (the present day Yemen) northward to Mecca and Medina, and then to the larger cities of Cairo, Damascus, Baghdad, and Constantinople.
All parts of the pot should be scrubbed by hand using water, avoiding detergent as aluminium moka pots are not dishwasher safe.
After a period of crisis in the 1970s and 1980s, Bialetti merged with Rondine Italia in 1993 and founded a new company named Bialetti Industrie S.p.A., based in Brescia.
In 2011, GMCR launched the Grounds to Grow On program, in which office customers purchase recovery bins for used K-Cups, which are shipped to Keurig's disposal partner, which composts the coffee grounds and sends the pods to be incinerated in a waste-to-energy power plant.
In 2021, the company built and scaled its manufacturing from a renovated seafood processing factory.
Non-beverage mugs Shaving mugs and scuttles A shaving scuttle and shaving mug were developed around the 19th century; the first patent for a shaving mug is dated 1867.
Products Keurig K-Cup brewing systems The company's flagship products, Keurig K-Cup brewing systems, are designed to brew a single cup of coffee, tea, hot chocolate, or other hot beverage.
Metal zarfs were sometimes filigreed, decorated with chasing, niello, engraving, or set with precious stones.
The sublimation point of caffeine is 352 °F (178 °C), about one hundred degrees lower than the typical very dark roast.
Brewing methods that expose coffee grounds to heated water for longer require a coarser grind than faster brewing methods.
In English, the method is called "net-filter coffee"; the spoon-shaped cloth filter has been compared to a net used to catch fish in aquarium shops.
History In 1908, Melitta Bentz, a 35-year-old woman from Dresden, Germany, invented the first coffee filter, receiving a patent registration for her "Filter Top Device lined with Filter Paper" from the Patent Office in Berlin on 8 July.
Arabic coffee, known in Arabic as qahwa (Arabic: قهوة), is a loosely defined family of brewed coffee of Coffea arabica beans.
Saeco was the name of an Italian road bicycle racing team, sponsored by the company with the same name.
Beer stein Beer steins are traditional beer mugs made out of stoneware clay and commonly associated with Germany.
The increased popularity of lattes and similar drinks in the 2000s resulted in the development of elevated lids to accommodate microfoam.
This new entity, focused on the professional coffee segment, is 61.4% controlled by De'Longhi SpA, 26.6% controlled by De'Longhi Industrial S.A, and 12% controlled by the remaining shareholders of La Marzocco.
The grouphead contains many holes (the shower) that attempt to distribute the pressurised water evenly over the surface of the grinds in the portafilter basket and thereby achieve an even cross sectional flow.
An Americano only differs from an espresso in strength – it is traditionally diluted after brewing to a strength below 1.5% (also resulting in the removal of crema).
It normally works by admitting water from a cold-water reservoir into a flexible hose in the base of the reservoir leading directly to a thin metal tube or heating chamber (usually, of aluminium), where a heating element surrounding the metal tube heats the water.
Since limiting the area of the exposed surface of the liquid helps keeping the temperature, this increase in volume is achieved through mug being taller, while tapered cups are lower for stability.
In the 1970s, the spelling espresso gained prominence, and by 1996, the third edition of Fowler's Modern English Usage described expresso as "entirely driven out".
The original shape appears to have been a cylindrical filter with two squarish handles combined with a ball-shaped pot.
The second half of the 18th century witnessed the replacement of silver by porcelain in the tea sets in order to match the cups, and the porcelain sugar bowls came into vogue.
The machine utilizes the same coffee pods, and can produce three different variants of coffee with foam milk: Cappuccino, Café Latte and Latte macchiato.
With this quantity of waste and the chemical properties of used coffee grounds, they have several potential uses.
All models in this line (except the Elizabeth) are SBDU machines with 300cc brass boilers; the Elizabeth has a 300cc brass brew boiler and a dedicated 600cc brass steam boiler, and is consistently characterized as a prosumer machine.
Cipollini's antics are legendary, including showing up to the stage start at the Tour de France dressed in a Julius Caesar-inspired toga complete with an olive wreath, riding on a carriage pulled by his teammates on bicycles.
In Ethiopia they use a slightly different variation, theirs having a separate spout lower on the pot for pouring out the coffee.
Single-serve coffeemaker A single-serve or single-cup coffeemaker brews coffee from a single-serve container, with several popular variations existing.
In We Have Always Lived in the Castle by Shirley Jackson the sugar bowl is a prominent object used to poison and murder members of the Blackwood Family.
In 2015, Egg Production created a Cloverfield-like short video on YouTube entitled "Kill The K Cup" to promote awareness of the waste impact of K Cup, starting the hashtag #KillTheKCup, and reporting that there were enough K pods sold in 2014 to circle the earth 10.5 times.
La Marzocco's Swift grinder was awarded Best New Product at the 2000 San Francisco SCAA conference, the first patented model to combine dosing, grinding and automatic tamping technologies.
The GB/5 machine (named after Piero's wife, Giovanna Bambi) is introduced, equipped with a CPU board and improved thermo-stability in light of the introduction of "PID" technology.
The size of many means that "vase" would be a more appropriate name, but "cup" has become established.
The coffee ceremony may also include burning of various traditional incense such as frankincense or gum arabic.
Ausdruck dieses Bestrebens ist neben der bereits zum Standard gewordenen Deckelhalterung nun auch die nichttropfende Schnaupe.
During the summer of 2015, Brad Kifferstein appeared on CNBC's Power Pitch, where his pitch received one "in" and two "out" votes from the panelists.
O'Neal's nephew, Herschel Duncan, developed the blend for the Maryland Club, which became one of the better known brands of the time and formed the Duncan Coffee Company.
Mugs have handles and usually hold a larger amount of fluid than other types of cups such as teacups or coffee cups.
Unlike newer capsules and pods, this system consists of a single-use drip coffee filter placed over the cup.
Dispute in Belgium On February 20, 2004, the Court of First Instance of Antwerp, Belgium, ruled in a lawsuit between three Belgian coffee vendors, N.V.
E-61 (commonly E61) is a type of espresso machine brew group, invented and patented by Ernesto Valente and introduced by Faema in 1961.
The machine was invented in the United States by the Rudd-Melikian company in 1947, debuting as the "Kwik Kafe".
Variations Several different systems exist: Coffee pods or pads are pre-packaged ground coffee beans in their own filter.
The host pours the coffee for all participants by moving the tilted jebena over a tray with small, handleless cups (finjal) without stop until each cup is full.
The Bauhaus interpretation of this device can be seen in Gerhard Marcks' Sintrax coffee maker of 1925.
1900), the Kaffeeaufgußkanne Max Thürmer (1900), the Büttner-Kaffeemaschine (1926), the Melitta 401/402 (1930s) filter holders, the Morena Kaffeefilter (c.
James Hoffmann suggests that the Silvia marks the beginning of the "prosumer category" in espresso, representing "miniature commercial machines for the home," and characterizes the Silvia as "the closest to a commercial machine" available among consumer espresso machines.
In later years pod brewers were developed for the home market, and for restaurants and other food service businesses where espresso was not a specialty.
The addition of sugar during the torrefacto roasting process increases the production of compounds with antioxidant properties.
Some coffee aficionados hold the coffee produced in low esteem because of this multiple-pass process.
History Founding Cometeer was co-founded in 2015 by CEO Matthew Roberts after developing the initial concept while studying abroad in Spain while attending Bentley University.
Heat changing mugs Heat changing, heat sensitive, or magic mugs make use of thermochromism to change appearance when a hot beverage is poured into them.
Once the grounds are adequately steeped, the coffee is poured into a room-temperature bottle or keg.
Although the company paused new investments and development in March 2022, it maintained its existing operations, including a production plant in Tatarstan.
Sylvan did not work well with the new investors, and in 1997, he was forced out, selling his stake in the company for $50,000.
The chorreador can be made at home simply and cheaply with very basic carpentry and sewing skills, or it can be crafted from beautiful and decorative softwoods or hardwoods by an artisan.
If the bridegroom drinks his coffee without any sign of displeasure, the bride-to-be assumes that the groom is good-tempered and patient.
Others were also made of woods such as coconut, ebony or other hardwoods, or of ivory, bone, horn, or tortoiseshell.
Single-serve coffee containers can both reduce the time needed to brew coffee and simplify the brewing process by eliminating the need to measure out portions, flavorings, and additives from large bulk containers.
Capresso markets high-end coffeemakers, espresso machines, grinders, electric water kettles, and frothers.
SB/DUs are generally found within the lower tiers of enthusiast home models, with steam wands being a simple and valued addition.
The single shot is the traditional shot size, being the maximum that could easily be pulled on a lever machine.
In 1978, Arthur Eugster and his brother Markus founded the Frismag AG in Amriswil and began producing coffee machines.
In 1995 the separate companies merged to form Eugster/Frismag AG and the group's headquarters relocated to Romanshorn.
The case concerned competition in the instant coffee market, including Vittoria’s 400 g freeze-dried product.
Non-food uses As with many other powders, large amounts of powdered non-dairy creamer powder are susceptible to dust explosion when suspended in air.
The sugar tongs are small serving utensils used at the table to transfer sugar pieces from the sugar bowl to the tea cups.
In 2015, La Marzocco also released the Linea Mini, a home espresso machine derived from the commercial Linea Classic, featuring a dual boiler and app connectivity.
In 2007 the first two coffee machines called "Saeco Extra" and "Saeco Premium" were launched, as well as the first range of capsules in four different flavors.
Ingredients To replicate the mouthfeel of milk fats, nondairy creamers often contain hydrogenated vegetable oils, although nonfat nondairy creamers/whiteners also exist.
As pressure builds up more quickly in this method (since there is much less leakage of vapour) compared to the standard moka pot, it reaches the level required for water to rise through the ground coffee in a shorter time.
"International Housewares Association for Retail and Wholesale Manufacturers and Buyers." International Housewares Association, 28 Feb.
Another lawsuit involving McDonald's was heard in Florida with the restaurant sued after a four-year-old girl suffered second-degree burns after a chicken nugget from a Happy Meal fell in between her leg and the seatbelt.
In 1852, two Frenchmen, a Paris metalsmith and a merchant, Henri-Otto Mayer and Jacques-Victor Delforge, patented a forerunner of the French press, that did not create a seal around the filter.
"System Büttner" coffee makers (German: Büttner-Kaffeemaschine) have been a type of manual and semi-automatic coffee makers combining coffee steeping (infusion, full immersion) with drip-filtering (percolation).
Funeral Arabic funerals gather families and extended relatives, who drink bitter and unsweetened coffee and recount the life and characteristics of the deceased.
Home roasting has the advantage of being able to roast smaller volumes of coffee to match consumption so that the roasted coffee is used before it goes stale.
Earlier units also included a carrying bag, a plastic holder for the filters, and a funnel for loading coffee and pressing into smaller vessels, but as of 2024 these are sold separately.
Beer stein Pint glass Old Fashioned glass Quaich Sake cup (ochoko) Shot glass Tankard Wine glass Goblet For measurement, suction and breasts Measuring cup Suction cup Bra cup Gallery References Sources Allan, Keith (2020).
Data from experiments conducted with Space Cups can be used to design better fluid systems used in space, such as toilets, oxygen, air conditioning, and water coolants.
Soon after, its branch in the USA is established, the Italian factory is relocated to nearby Scarperia, with a showroom and training center, and La Marzocco's first "Out of The Box" event is inaugurated in Milan.
In popular culture The Flavia system features in series 2 of I'm Alan Partridge – the title character refers to it as the "king of coffees" and has a machine in his static caravan.
Anglo-Saxon glass had several types of cup, most shared with continental areas, including "palm cups" with no flat bottom, claw beakers, glass horns, and different types of beaker.
Chinese and Japanese cups have been shaped as small, rather wide, bowls for some 2,000 years, smaller versions of the shape used for eating and serving food.
The mug's design came to be widely imitated by other manufacturers both within and outside the United States.
Verschmutzte Tischtücher und vertropfte Untertassen sind kein Aushängeschild für ein gut geführtes Café.
Like similar proprietary coffee-making systems, Caffitaly can be seen as an example of the razor and blades business model, in which the relatively low price of the coffeemaker is recouped through a higher profit margin on the coffee capsules it uses.
History The company was founded by Italian businessman Sergio Zappella and Swiss inventor Arthur Schmed in 1981 as Sergio, Arthur e Compagnia.
By the early 18th century, the European taste for handles on cups, strongly evident from antiquity, reasserted itself and a single vertical handle was added to a slightly more upright Chinese-style bowl to create both the very similar forms of the Western teacup and coffee cup, as well as a saucer.
One benefit of paper filters is that the used grounds and the filter may be disposed together, without a need to clean the filter.
Coffee (Ge'ez ቡን būn) is offered when visiting friends, during festivities, or as a daily staple of life.
The filter pot featured a through-glazed porcelain filter with triangularly-arranged slits with some air space below.
Catalysts are also used to improve the control efficiency of systems in which the roaster exhaust is ducted to the burners that heat the roaster.
Fabio De'Longhi (born 1967) is an Italian businessman and former CEO and general manager of De'Longhi.
The trademark was applied unrelated to their function or design by four different manufacturers in Italy (Brevetti Robbiati), Austria (Stella - Desider Josef Stern was the trademark holder), Hungary (Szigony M.V.), United Kingdom ( A.&M.G.
The impact of transient temperature – the temperature of the final coffee beverage after brewed is finished – does not matter as much as brewing temperature; briefly heating coffee does not destroy its taste.
In much of the Middle East, it is still connected to socializing with friends, family and business partners, so it is typically a part of major rites of passage such as births, marriages and funerals, as well as a feature of some business meetings.
Families will usually have only one, and it is normally passed down from generation to generation as a practical, ornate heirloom.
Despite the wide popularity of home roasting, Burns felt that it would soon disappear because of the great strides made in commercial roasting in the 1860s and 1870s, including the benefits of the economies of scale.
Eugster/Frismag AG, headquartered in Amriswil, Switzerland, is an OEM producer of home appliances, especially coffee machines which are sold under many well-known international brand names.
System Büttner coffee makers System Büttner coffee makers are a type of coffee makers featuring a special permanent through-glazed porcelain filter with triangularly-arranged slits and a valving mechanism to combine steeping with drip-brewing.
The Keurig 2.0 K-Cup pods come in 400 varieties from 60 brands, and as of 2015, the 2.0 K-Cup, K-Carafe, and K-Mug pods encompass 500 varieties from 75 brands.
Michael Phillips is a barista who won the United States Barista Championship in Portland, Oregon, in March 2009, while working at Intelligentsia Coffee & Tea in Chicago, IL.
Machines that purvey hot and iced coffee are common in Japan, and many of them are placed in street locations.
Slow-drip cold brew refers to a process in which water is dripped through coffee grounds at room temperature over the course of many hours.
This was initially rather deeper than modern saucers as, at least for tea, it was considered usual to pour the hot liquid into the saucer to cool it slightly before drinking.
In a statement, Breville CEO Jim Clayton said, “The acquisition of LELIT brings together the two great coffee cultures of the world: Italy and Australia...
History The earliest credible evidence of coffee drinking appears in the middle of the 15th century (but believed to be much earlier) from Yemen as coffee was in use in Yemen's Sufi monasteries.
Design The Chemex coffeemaker consists of an hourglass-shaped glass flask with a conical funnel-like neck and proprietary filters, made of bonded paper, that are thicker than the standard paper filters used for a drip coffeemaker.
Industry Sweden's coffee industry has an annual roasting volume of approximately 88,000 tonnes, accounting for about 5% of the European Union's total.
A dallah is typically richly ornamented, usually engraved with geometric patterns, stylized plants and flowers, love scenes from Persian Gulfic poetry, or set with other decorations, including semi-precious gemstones and ivory.
The "Coffeeduck" is a durable filter that can be filled with coffee and placed in the Senseo machine to brew a cup of coffee (one Coffeeduck can be re-used thousands of times).
This assessment may be due in part to the lesser frequency of proper barista training by many coffee vendors.
The name qahwah is not used for the berry or plant (the products of the region), which are known in Arabic as bunn.
The used coffee grounds are retained in the filter, while the brewed coffee is collected in a vessel such as a carafe or pot.
Kopi luwak (Indonesian pronunciation: [ˈkopi ˈlu.aʔ]), also known as civet coffee, is a coffee that consists of partially digested coffee cherries, which have been eaten and defecated by the Asian palm civet (Paradoxurus hermaphroditus).
Eden-Marie Abramowicz, Charlie Habegger, Truman Severson and Ryan Redden obsess over every detail when it comes to extracting the perfect cup of coffee.
When freshly boiled water from a kettle is used, the water temperature is about 203 °F (95 °C) when it gets in contact with the coffee.
Brunswick's site went viral in the hours following its publishing, garnering thousands of upvotes on the social platform Reddit, and causing the mass adoption of the "#save418" Twitter hashtag he introduced on his site.
Capsules Nescafé Dolce Gusto coffee capsules come in a variety of pack sizes which contain 12, 16 or 30 capsules.
The idea of using a matching service with teapot, creamer, and a sugar bowl became popular during the reign of George III, although some very rare examples are older.
Faema was to become synonymous with the post-war production boom in Italy, by actively pursuing technological innovation as the company's driving force.
Coffeehouse Coffeehouse culture began in the Arab world, and eventually spread to other areas of the world and blended with the local culture.
Visual arts See also Cuisine of Eritrea Literature of Eritrea List of museums in Eritrea == References ==
On June 26, 2020, a Bunn plant in Springfield, Illinois, became the scene of a workplace shooting in which an employee fatally shot three coworkers before fleeing and committing suicide at another location.
Most do not contain lactose and therefore are commonly described as being non-dairy products, although many contain casein, a milk-derived protein.
The Caffitaly System (known in some markets as the Caffita System) is a capsule system for making espresso and other coffee drinks in home espresso machines.
Melitta USA is responsible for the sales and marketing of Melitta coffee filters, coffee, and non electric coffee systems in the USA.
Lelit entered the prosumer espresso machine market in 2017 with the Lelit Bianca, adding the more compact and less expensive Lelit MaraX in 2019.
A French press, also known as a cafetière, cafetière à piston, caffettiera a stantuffo, press pot, coffee press, or coffee plunger, is a coffee brewing device, although it can also be used for other tasks.
In the first stage, iper-infusion, hot water under pressure creates conditions that bring out coffee flavor and aroma.
Other relevant contributions to the technology used in espresso machines include the cappuccinatore (introduced in 1996) as well as the automatic brewing pressure adaptation "SBS" (1999) and most recently, the announcement of the bluetooth-enabled GranBaristo Avanti (2013).
In February 2024, Houseplant, a home goods and lifestyle company co-founded by Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg, partnered with Cometeer to launch a new line of coffee.
In 1997, Eugster/Frismag entered into a partnership in China for the production of drip brew machines, which was transferred to a joint venture company in 2005.
The machine would drop a paper cup through a chute onto a platform and fill the cup with hot coffee prepared using instant coffee and hot water.
Method The SoftBrew brews coffee by infusion (through steeping) in a perforated cylindrical stainless steel filter cup, which can be washed and reused.
The coffee capsules consist of a plastic cylinder containing up to 7.5 grams (0.26 oz) of ground coffee that is vacuum-pressed and sealed by an aluminum cap.
Danesi of Italy meanwhile has associated themselves with Caffitaly system brewing machines, selling in the USA through Boston King Coffee.
A chorreador is a coffee making device used in Costa Rica in which hot water leaches through coffee grounds held in a cloth filter mounted on a wooden stand, then drips into a container.
In addition to home espresso machines, Illy offers professional Francis Francis X7.1 iperEspresso machines for hotels and restaurants.
The water from a thermo flask is usually cooler, but temperatures down to 176 °F (80 °C) still gives an acceptable result with most coffees.
The judge reduced punitive damages to $480,000, three times the compensatory amount, for a total of $640,000.
A half-moon shaped filter paper (bleached: FP-2, unbleached: FP-2N) is used for the 3-cup holders (CM-1, CM-1C, CM-1GH) and the Funnex (CM-FNX), which must be folded before use.
In other drinks, an espresso cup or shot glass is a common alternative, which must be dumped rather than poured.
See also Bialetti De'Longhi Faema FrancisFrancis Gaggia La Marzocco La Pavoni Lelit Rancilio List of Italian companies References External links Official website Philips-Saeco Official website Saeco Professional
Coffee-mate is a lactose-free coffee creamer manufactured by Nestlé, available in powdered, liquid and concentrated liquid forms.
Espresso-based drinks When it is not served by itself, espresso is frequently blended, often with milk—steamed (without significant foam), wet foamed (microfoam), and dry foamed—or hot water.
Jura, registered as Jura Elektroapparate AG is a Swiss developer and distributor of home appliances, mainly espresso machines, headquartered in Niederbuchsiten, Canton of Solothurn.
The machine combined a method similar to a French press with a vacuum mechanism that separated the liquid from the grounds.
The capsule can be disposed of easily once the coffee is made, and the machine requires little maintenance or cleaning.
The flight model was subjected to the processes of qualification and certified by NASA for use aboard the International Space Station.
In addition, Eritrean cuisine has a lot of Italian dishes from the Italian Eritrean cuisine introduced during Italian Eritrea.
In the late Georgian era piercing popularity had declined, and the tongs were made to match the contemporary spoon designs (for example, with the fiddle pattern).
A long reusable cloth filter (held in a metal ring) is positioned over a receiving pot, near-boiling water is poured through the coffee bed in multiple pours, and the finished coffee is transferred to, or maintained in, a holding pot for pour-out service.
The Levant White coffee in the Levant "qahwah bayda" (قهوة بيضاء) is a caffeine-free drink made from water, orange blossom water, and sweetened with sugar if desired, or rose water.
Additionally, De'Longhi's Russian website remained active, job vacancies were posted for positions in Russia, and advertisements continued on platforms like YouTube, leading to further scrutiny over the company's ongoing business activities in the region.
The cost per serving is 10% higher than Illy E.S.E pods, and twice higher than Illy ground or whole bean non-encapsulated coffee.
Four major companies dominate the Swedish coffee market: Gevalia, owned by JDE Peet's, based in Gävle, holds around 40% of the market share.
More recent units can store fresh milk in a separate internal container, instead of relying on powder.
The sleeve was invented while Sorensen was driving his daughter Ryeder to school and spilled a cup of coffee in his lap.
Bunn, who designed his own versions of paper coffee filters, that had a flat bottom and fluted sides and pour-over drip coffee brewers.
The tube delivers the liquid coffee to the bottom of the carafe, so that weaker coffee (what is dripped through the beans at the end) is distributed evenly with the stronger coffee (that is pumped through the coffee first).
Advantages of pods include convenience and speed of preparation and easy cleaning, consistency of taste, and less waste of coffee grounds.
Among the earliest references to a dallah as a coffee boiler in the modern shape date to the mid-17th century.
A measured dose of ground coffee is placed into the cloth filter and infused with hot water; extraction times and handling vary by venue.
Bravilor Bonamat is a Dutch manufacturer of commercial and office-grade coffee machines, espresso machines and hot water dispensers, founded in Amsterdam by A.J.M.
Different single-cup systems are not interchangeable; some systems force machine owners to buy capsules from a single company (usually the patent owner), locking the machine owner into a single source of coffee.
Some do not require payment; these are typically found at places of employment, whereby the company furnishes the beverage to employees free of charge.
Surviving cà phê vợt vendors in Ho Chi Minh City operate as small-scale alley cafes, market-adjacent stalls, and neighborhood street vendors, with limited seating and service centered on the brewing station.
Normally, a cup is brought in contact with the mouth for drinking, distinguishing it from other tableware and drinkware forms such as jugs; however, a straw and/or lid may also be used.
In contrast, some immersion brewers, such as the French press, are used almost exclusively with metal filters.
Polystyrene Polystyrene, sometimes known as styrofoam (not actually Styrofoam), is used mainly because of its insulating abilities.
In its most basic form, Persian Gulf or Arabic coffee has simple ingredients and preparation: water, lightly roasted coffee, and ground cardamom are boiled in a dallah for 10 to 20 minutes and served unfiltered in demitasse cups.
Most competitors employ a pourover technique using commercially available brewers (such as Hario V60 or Kalita Wave) or modified versions.
The championship resumed in 2021, with both in-person events and a new online format, in which competitors create and submit their recipe remotely.
In part, this only becomes apparent when one considers the normal maximum fill level: the glass carafe on the far right, for example, appears at first glance to be a poor pourer because of its slender neck.
Reiner received his PhD at TU Wien in 1913 and made significant contributions to the development of the study of flow behavior known as rheology.
There are a number of companies that manufacture coffee sleeves; the top four companies by volume of coffee sleeves sold in the U.S.
History and terminology In Vietnamese, vợt means a net or strainer; in this context it refers to the reusable cloth filter used for brewing, and cà phê vợt refers to coffee prepared with that filter.
standard was created by Italian Illy in the 1970s and is maintained by the "Consortium for the Development and the Protection of the E.S.E.
Coffee is steeped inside, then forced through the filter by pressing the plunger down through the chamber.
The external and internal structure of the machine was designed and tested to support the loads transmitted by the launch of the SpaceX CRS-6 spacecraft.
Peirce of Chicago, Illinois, filed her patent for the first vacuum coffee maker that truly automated the vacuum brewing process, while eliminating the need for a stovetop burner or liquid fuels.
The company sells a coffee pod brewer system similar to Keurig K-Cups, and makes various home and domestic coffee makers under the Speed Brew and Heat N' Brew families.
Paper coffee pods can be functionally identical to plastic and metal coffee capsules, if the paper pods are individually sealed in separate bags.
Machines also developed in other respects: they shrank, and their energy source moved from gas to electricity.
A similar concept using phase change materials, but integrated into the walls and bottom of a cup, had been invented by the Fraunhofer Institute for Building Physics in 2009.
Especially in East Asia disposable single serve drip coffee bags are common way to prepare drip coffee.
tea or coffee), cooling rate in a cup is typically dominated by evaporation, which occurs across the free surface in contact with the air.
English silverware examples are from about 1750; the Dutch immigrant silversmith John Schuppe, who worked in London from 1753, produced little else, and his examples are among the finest.
Der Stolz dieser Erfindung wird auch nach außen hin sichtbar, indem man den speziell damit versehenen Servicen ein P, wie Patent, hinzufügte.
A single-serve coffee container is a container filled with coffee grounds, used in coffee brewing to prepare only enough coffee for a single portion.
Cafe uses A method of safe disposal of coffee ground waste has been tested to assist with noise management in cafés.
Bunn is the American distributor of the Tiger Super Automatic Espresso Machine, made by Thermoplan AG.
Historical reference When Jefferson returned from France...he asked George Washington why the Senate had been created.
The iconic Moka pot coffee maker functions on the same principle but the water is forced up from the bottom chamber through the third middle chamber containing the coffee grounds to the top chamber which has an air gap to prevent the brewed coffee from returning downwards.
Achieving higher pressures For decades, manufacturers endeavoured to produce a machine that could use higher pressures without the resulting coffee tasting burned.
Indonesia In Indonesia, the term white coffee or kopi putih refers to coffee beans which are roasted less than regular coffee beans.
The attorneys presented evidence that coffee they had tested all over the city was served at a temperature at least 20 °F (11 °C) lower than McDonald's coffee.
It is characterized by its small serving size, typically 25–30 ml, and its distinctive layers: a dark body topped with a lighter-colored foam called "crema".
For nearly a century (1538–1636), the Ottoman Empire controlled the southern coastal region of the Yemen, notably its famous coffee port Mocha.
Winners ^A In its inaugural year the competition was known as the North American Barista Competition.
Although the water for brewing remains at a lower range than that required for steaming milk, it is still too hot for proper coffee extraction without first cooling; thus this type of machine requires a cooling flush of 4–6 seconds prior to the first espresso pull.
The print run of this publication is limited to 1000 pieces.) Hesselberth, John (January–February 1997).
Prosumer E61-derived models include the heat-exchanger MaraX (PL62X) and dual-boiler Bianca (PL162T).
The Rocky in particular is regarded as "revolutionary" in home espresso, becoming the standard home grinder "for the serious espresso nerd" through the next decade.
In 1958 the brothers began roasting small amounts of premium Arabica coffee at their food importing premises in the Sydney's suburb of Haymarket, initially supplying Sydney's first Italian cafés.
At the same time, Kraft announced double-digit growth for the second quarter in a row for its Tassimo coffee T-Disc sales.
This whole cycle repeats continuously, making the characteristic intermittent "perking" sound of the hot water hitting the underside of the lid.
Burr-grinding Burr mills use two revolving abrasive elements, such as wheels or conical grinding elements made of stainless steel or ceramic, between which the coffee beans are crushed or "torn" with little frictional heating.
In 2017, the manufacturer recommended against using metal mesh filters, claiming that paper filters improved taste.
District Court for the District of New Mexico, accusing McDonald's of gross negligence for selling coffee that was "unreasonably dangerous" and "defectively manufactured".
The technical judges are not served drinks, but score the competitor on items ranging from cleanliness to consistency of shot times.
The system to remove the used capsule in microgravity works via means of an aluminum piston that is activated by the astronaut, who drives the capsule into a disposal pouch.
Infolge einer Bohrung durch den Ausguß und einer dünnen Rille auf der Innenseite der Tülle strömt die Flüssigkeit nach dem Aufrichten der Kanne durch Kapillarkraft zurück.
Starbucks introduced the beverage at 500 stores in the summer of 2016, preceded in the Los Angeles market by The Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf.
Prevalence Ethiopia Brewing coffee is tied closely to womanhood in Ethiopia and in the Horn of Africa.
In May 2009, the company board agreed to a purchase offer from Dutch manufacturer Philips, owner of the Senseo coffee system, subject to shareholder and bank approval.
This beak may be covered with a metal flap to keep the coffee warmer, but traditionally it is open to view the coffee as it is poured out.
Contrary to the terrestrial machines, it is not necessary to have a collection tank considering that there is very limited waste water.
General Electric announced that its new Café French Door refrigerator, due out in late 2015, will have a Keurig coffee machine built into the door.
They worked on the principle of French drip coffee pots, but used a paper filter and allowed to pour the whole amount of water at once instead of having to pour several times.
The main difference is that the coffee beans are ground into a finer powder and sugar is added during the process.
Cappuccino The Italian Espresso National Institute recommends serving cappuccino in a china cup holding approximately 160 ml, usually served on a saucer.
The use of a pod brewer eliminated most of the training required to operate conventional espresso machines.
Espresso brew pitcher Small metal creamers may be used in making espresso-based drinks – the espresso being brewed into the pitcher, which is then poured into the drink.
In contrast to the institutionally-marketed Lavazza Blue pods, the A Modo Mio pods are sold in supermarkets.
The method is linked with long-running small cafes and "old Saigon" coffee culture, including venues that keep kettles and/or brewed coffee warm over a stove during service.
In 2006, the publicly traded Vermont-based specialty coffee company Green Mountain Coffee Roasters acquired Keurig, sparking rapid growth for both companies.
(Italian pronunciation: [deˈloŋɡi]; stylized as DēLonghi) is an Italian small appliance manufacturer based in Treviso, Italy.
It was cited by some as an example of frivolous litigation; ABC News called the case "the poster child of excessive lawsuits", while the legal scholar Jonathan Turley argued that the claim was "a meaningful and worthy lawsuit".
Lance Hedrick, conversely, described the Lelit Mara X as the 'best value heat-exchanger' machine in April 2023, and called the Lelit Elizabeth as the 'best value dual-boiler' espresso machine in May 2025, introducing the Elizabeth as "one of the best kept secrets" in espresso.
(Its popularity may have been aided in 1965 by its use in the Michael Caine film The Ipcress File.) The device was litigated and further popularized throughout Europe by Melior-Martin, a French company, Household Articles Ltd.
The jebenas used in Ethiopia commonly have a spout, whereas those utilized in Eritrea usually do not.
Of the three stages, the first is known as the awel, the second, the kale'i and the third, the baraka.
Practices may include repeated pours, recirculating the first draw, and heat management to control strength and avoid undesirable flavors.
Six years later, in 1958, the Carnation Company developed a product that easily dissolved in hot liquid because it replaced most of the milk fat with vegetable oil, and reduced the milk protein.
Italians also spread espresso culture into their East African colonies, Italian Somalia and Italian Eritrea.
The saucer also provides a convenient place for a wet spoon, as might be used to stir the drink in the cup in order to mix sweeteners or creamers into tea or coffee.
The dry coffee grounds contain significant amounts of potassium (11.7 g/kg), nitrogen (27.9 g/kg), magnesium (1.9 g/kg), and phosphorus (1.8 g/kg).
History and trading The company was founded by the De'Longhi family in 1902 as a small industrial parts manufacturing workshop.
The brewer received the Japanese Good Design Award in 2007 and is used by many of the winners in the World Brewers Cup.
In 1973, Marotta convinced highly regarded Hall of Fame baseball player Joe DiMaggio to become an advertising spokesman for the brand.
Coffee did not become a popular beverage until it was altered to appeal to European palates and its price drastically lowered, as follows.
The Verismo 801 was released to the commercial market shortly before it was discontinued, under the Black and White CTS2 brand name.
Most of aluminium cast Model A (flathead) and B (Roundhead) had a black and white circular Atomic badge.
Bialetti Industries applied for a patent in 1946 describing an apparatus which uses the same brewing method but arranges the vessels side by side, rather than stacking them vertically.
Two Qualifying Competitions are held each year, the top eighteen competitors from each Qualifying Competition move on to USBC.
The extraction yield percentage describes the mass transferred from coffee grounds to water, expressed as a percentage of the initial mass of the grounds.
The company received help on manufacturing costs from Sherrill and raised money on Kickstarter in 2011.
Nespresso continues to sell both OriginalLine and VertuoLine machines and capsules in the United States and Canada, targeting different market segments with the two systems.
Overview The center of the saucer often contains a depression or raised ring sized to fit a matching cup; this was only introduced in the mid 18th century.
During the open service, the competitor typically explains the origin of the coffee, the brewing method, and tasting notes while brewing at least three beverages, one for each of the three sensory judges.
When coffee is being prepared, it is normally time for men and women to mingle and converse separately.
See also Coffee service Easy Serving Espresso Pod Caffitaly K-Cup T-Discs Melitta Senseo References External links Flavia official Canadian and Mexican site Flavia official United States site
Individuals using powdered non-dairy creamer in the ordinary amounts used in a cup of coffee do not face a risk of dust explosion.
However, these bans were to be overturned in 1524 by an order of the Ottoman Turkish Sultan Suleiman I, with Grand Mufti Mehmet Ebussuud el-İmadi issuing a fatwa allowing the consumption of coffee.
Espresso taste Pod brewers allow many food and beverage servers to provide a standardized quality of espresso with repeatable results every time.
sugar bows with highly decorative handles appear in 1750s (Shlosberg says the displacement started in the early 1770s) for a short time; sugar tongs with more plain designs appeared in the 18th century and gradually evolved into "bold, bad design" of the 19th century.
Die Karlsbader Kanne , 5 teilig, € 99,99 (3911 Arnreith) - willhaben Otruba, Gustav [in German] (1964).
After the launch, Lavazza continued with the expansion of both the range of capsules and the range of coffee machines.
In April 2020, Melitta announced that the company would be manufacturing nose and face masks as part of the COVID-19 pandemic.
It is of a medium size, with a neck, a spout and a handle, as well as some regional variants possessing straw lids, and an extra spout to pour the coffee out of, as well as different shaped bases.
By the mid-20th century, net-filter coffee was associated with inexpensive neighborhood coffeehouses that prepared coffee in batches for a steady flow of customers.
In January 2018, a North American electric compatible Senseo coffee maker once again became available to the public.
Seißer, Peter [in German]; Zehentmeier, Sabine; Meyer, Rudolf; Siemen, Wilhelm [in German]; Symossek, Ronja (1999).
The capsules have an outer ring or rim that stays dry during use, allowing for removal and disposal after use without getting the user's hands wet or sticky.
Cultural significance and use Since cups have been an integral part of dining since time immemorial, they have become a valued part of human culture.
Large mugs, typically made of metal or pottery and used for drinking beer, are likely to be called tankards.
Since the temperature for brewing is less than the temperature for creating steam the machine requires time to make the transition from one mode to the other.
Besides its three development and production locations in Switzerland (around 1,600 jobs) the company has a production facility in Portugal with 1100 jobs.
The cherries are fermented as they pass through a civet's intestines, and after being defecated with other fecal matter, they are collected.
Over the years, the company released its own versions of some of these products, including several models of flow-control caps and metal filters.
design was created by illy in 1989 as a marketing effort to sell convenience in home espresso preparation.
The company would immediately create the brands of Admiration Coffee and Bright and Early Coffee, which is still around today.
Consumer backlash prompted the company to announce in May 2015 that it was bringing back the My K-Cup and making it compatible with the 2.0 brewers.
A practice ground in Weggis was turned into a temporary 5,000-seat arena called the "Thermoplan Arena".
The machine is smaller in size than the Verismo 801, due to the concerns of Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz that the height of the Verismo 801 prevented baristas from interacting with customers.
A plain glass cylinder may be used, or a vacuum flask arrangement to keep the coffee hot; this is not to be confused with a vacuum brewer—see below.
In 1954, one of the first electric drip brewers, the Wigomat invented by Gottlob Widmann, was patented in Germany.
Ex-attorney Susan Saladoff sees the portrayal in the media as purposeful misrepresentation due to political and corporate influence.
In Austria, Desider Stern applied the trademark on various models stating with the 102, 104, 105 and 110 and extending to the 402E series.
In 1974, Breville released the toasted sandwich maker, making the Breville brand a household name in Australia.
These oils can be dissolved and removed by scrubbing the bolsita with salt about once a month, followed by a thorough rinse to remove all of the salt.
Some newer models fresh-brew the coffee using hot water and ground coffee beans, and some also grind the coffee to order using coffee grinders installed in the machines, as well as providing various condiments.
The decline of the formal tea party led to the disappearance of the sugar tongs, in the 21st century they are considered an oddity at the table in their original role, but had acquired a new meaning: the tongs now represent Englishness (somewhere along with Miss Marple).
Duez, Cyril; Ybert, Christophe [at Wikidata]; Clanet, Christophe; Bocquet, Lydéric [in French] (2010-02-26) [2009-10-17].
In 1985, they launched the first completely automatic espresso machine for domestic use, called Superautomatica and in 1999 they bought the historic espresso brand Gaggia.
In the compulsory service, competitors' coffees are evaluated on a standardized numerical scale based on several sensory criteria including aroma, flavor, aftertaste, acidity, body, balance, and overall perception.
The company did not prolong the sponsorship for 2005, and the team was merged with the Lampre team, forming Lampre–Caffita, sponsored by Caffita.
The matriarch or the youngest woman of a household is traditionally the person who initiates the bunna ceremony and begins the process of preparing the coffee beans to be brewed in the jebena.
The Fondazione Palazzo Coronini Cronberg Foundation of Gorizia has a Venetian sugar bowl of the Napoleonic period.
Other versions include stainless steel, insulated presses designed to keep the coffee hot, similar in design to thermos flasks.
Both ground and brewed torrefacto coffee has higher antioxidant capacity than standard roasts, decreased pro-oxidant activities were also observed in a study.
It was first held in Oslo, Norway, in 2008, with only three competitors, but grew in popularity each year after.
The analysis of the foam formation with respect to that of the terrestrial coffee was of particular interest, starting from the design of the system in order to obtain it in microgravity.
Disposable paper cups used for take-out sometimes have fold-out handles, but are more often used with an insulating coffee cup sleeve.
This method is more similar to the French press, particularly the extended brewing time in which the grounds and water sit together.
While the cup design might not seem to have anything to do with the taste of the beverage, connoisseurs say it makes a difference.
The horizontal design organized the brew groups in a row, which improved efficiency for the barista and allowed greater interaction with customers.
The Specialty Coffee Association of America supports improved packaging methods rather than lowering the temperature at which coffee is served.
The competition between two collectors for an especially valuable silver cow creamer is a plot-line in P.
George Howell, a specialty coffee expert, was an early collaborator for the business after Roberts proved his ability to flash-freeze and preserve the freshness of espresso shots using blocks of dry ice.
Current pod technology produces a high volume of crema, the foam created at the top of the cup, and a taste that many consumers find comparable with what is available in current espresso bars.
History Officially launched in 2007, the A Modo Mio family is composed of a range of single-dose coffee capsules and related series of coffee machines developed by Lavazza and Saeco and produced by Saeco in Italy.
The Italian Espresso National Institute recommends serving espresso in a white china cup holding 50−100 ml.
The competition is composed of the winners of the national barista championships, which are operated by the Specialty Coffee Association (SCA) chapters, or an approved, independent, non-profit national body.
The Telegraph noted in an article that Starbucks had temporarily closed some of its outlets to retrain baristas, citing problems with barista preparation of espresso drinks and poor practices such as re-foaming milk or calibrating pressure for non-optimal brewing time.
Rancilio Silvia The Rancilio Silvia (officially "Miss Silvia") is a semi-automatic espresso machine manufactured by Rancilio since 1997.
are, in no particular order, International Paper, LBP Manufacturing, Java Jacket, and Labansat & Schulz Manufacturing.
A typical cabaret service includes (in addition to cups and saucers) a teapot or a coffeepot (with a lid and occasionally a stand), a sugar bowl, a creamer, sometimes a tray and cutlery.
Dictionnaire de l'ameublement et de la décoration depuis le XIIIe siècle jusqu'à nos jours (in French).
in 1992, In 1995, Larry Kernan, a principal at MDT Advisers – an investment fund which had contributed $1,000,000 to the company – became Chairman of Keurig; he retained the position through 2002.
According to this analysis, the feminine form qahwah (also meaning 'dark in color, dull(ing), dry, sour') also had the meaning of wine, which was also often dark in color.
Instead of the cylindrical brushed steel grouphead cover of the V1, the V2 grouphead was insulated with a conical plastic collar covered in a silver chrome film.
Family-run stalls transmitted cloth-filter techniques through Chinese Vietnamese networks and maintained batch brewing for continuous service in Ho Chi Minh City.
By 1990, Piero Bambi had designed his first machine in its entirety, the Linea (later known as the Linea Classic).
Public coffee vending machines typically require payment, functioning as coin-operated machines, and some also accept bills and credit cards.
Four variants exist in home machines, depending on how brew water and steam are boiled; in discussion these are generally known by acronyms.
An extraction yield of 18% to 22% and a strength of 1.15% to 1.35% is considered typical in North America.
Frappé is a strong cold coffee drink made from instant coffee and in Greece it is consumed more than Turkish coffee (which the Greeks refer to as "elliniko" or "greek" after the Greek-Turkish dispute over Cyprus in 1974).
While the beans are being roasted in preparation to be put in the jebena, popcorn or other small snacks are passed around.
The high-margin profits from K-Cup pods are the bulk of the company's income; for the fiscal year 2014, Keurig generated $822.3 million in sales from brewers and accessories, while the pods had $3.6 billion in sales.
In 1997, Melitta developed a filter with Flavor Pores, microfine perforations that filter out unwanted sediment, particles and oils.
Around the time of the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, the Russian military website mil.ru returned the HTTP 418 status code when accessed from outside of Russia as a DDoS attack protection measure.
Another early commercial powdered creamer was "Pream", first marketed in 1952 and made from dehydrated cream and sugar.
Survivals in ancient Greek pottery are numerous, and often brilliantly painted, but all probably were made also in silver, where survivals are extremely rare, as grave robbers did not bother with pottery.
Early sets for drinking tea included few separate little silver containers that were frequently made in pair or sets of three and placed under a lock and key into a case due to the high cost of tea and sugar at the time, with the larger container intended for sugar.
Varieties The original product was introduced in February 1961, followed by Coffee-mate Lite and Coffee-mate Liquid in 1989.
There are no hard limitations on the recipes (coffee to water ratio), which may be varied by the competitor.
By convention, regular coffee brewed by this method is served by some restaurants in a brown or black pot (or a pot with a brown or black handle), while decaffeinated coffee is served in an orange pot (or a pot with an orange handle).
Farsi ābrēz), from Middle Persian *āb-rēǰ, ultimately from Old Persian *āp- 'water' + *raiča- 'pour' (New Persian ریختن [rêxtan]).
Cometeer Coffee is an American coffee technology and manufacturing company based in Gloucester, Massachusetts.
Gallery References External links Robbiati's drawing for Patent 2,549,132 (filed June 26, 1947) Detailed photos and information on most models of Atomic
Laws of hydrodynamics (flow theory) describe this situation, the relevant ones are explained in the following sections.
For immersion brewing methods, such as French press and vacuum brewing, extraction takes place slowly.
The family-owned company employs more than 3,000 individuals overall and had a revenue of 583 million Swiss francs in 2018.
Status 418 is also sometimes returned by servers when blocking a request, instead of the more appropriate 403 Forbidden, or 404 Not Found.
Lavazza made an agreement with the Seico to produce coffee machines compatible only with the A Modo Mio system.
In the case of coffee-brewing the solvent is water, the permeable substance is the coffee grounds, and the soluble constituents are the chemical compounds that give coffee its color, taste, aroma, and stimulating properties.
The national barista competitions are each organized by their respective national coffee organizations.
Machines iperEspresso capsules require special espresso machines, which are manufactured by Francis Francis (a subsidiary of Illy), Gaggia (Saeco), and Cuisinart (Conair).
Public trading Shares in the company are traded on Milan's stock exchange under the ticker symbol DLG.
He mentions that they drank it black; some added cloves, cardamom or sugar, but it was thought to be less healthy, and until recently, an older generation of connoisseurs disdained the habit of sugaring Turkish coffee.
In 2011, he was named the Chairman of the Board of Directors for the International Housewares Association for the 2011/2012 term of October 2011 through September 2012.
Two years later, Gaggia follows the fate of its parent company Saeco, which had been taken over by the Dutch multinational Philips.
A demitasse (; French: "half cup"), demi-tasse, or espresso cup is a small cup used to serve espresso.
Although an individual named Dick Sweeney is sometimes considered the third founder of Keurig, Sylvan does not contend with this claim.
As the film progresses, the makers add a fifth personality, Los Angeles-based Charles Babinski, who decides to compete.
In 2017, Philips sold the Saeco Professional division (also with the Gaggia brand) to N&W Global Vending SpA, an Italian Bergamo based company leader in vending machines for drinks and snacks, born in 2000 from the integration of Necta and Wittenberg and controlled by a US fund, Lone Star.
The most visually distinctive feature of the Chemex is the heatproof wooden collar around the neck, which allows it to be easily handled and poured when full of hot coffee.
Paper coffee cups also release trillions of microplastic nanoparticles per liter into the water during normal use.
Philips Saeco S.p.A., or short Saeco, is an Italian manufacturer of manual, super-automatic and capsule espresso machines and other electrical goods with headquarters and factories in Gaggio Montano near Bologna.
Rancilio later introduced the Miss Kathy model, incorporating the components and functionality of both an Audrey espresso machine and a Rocky grinder in a single chassis.
iperEspresso is a single-serve capsule system for preparing espresso coffee and espresso-based drinks, developed and patented by Illy.
Typically, ristretto is half the volume of normale, and lungo is double to triple the normale volume.
Many capsule machines specifically warn the user to not disassemble the machine or put their fingers inside the capsule receptacle, as the devices commonly use sharp razor-edge tubes or prongs for piercing the coffee capsule during use.
Polystyrene foam cups are easier to recycle than the alternative, paper coffee cups, which are lined with polyethylene to make them impermeable.
Awards and achievements In February 2006, the Flavia Fusion drinks station earned the Good Housekeeping Seal, which means that the product has a two-year limited warranty.
Nevertheless, appliances catering to the home roaster were becoming popular; in 1849 a spherical coffee roaster was invented in Cincinnati, Ohio, for use on the top of a wood-fired kitchen stove, fitted into a burner opening.
Bialetti is an Italian brand of coffee machines, cookware, and small kitchen appliances founded by Alfonso Bialetti.
(Some Silvias made in early 2008 are still V2.) The machine was upgraded with a thicker 10mm diameter commercial-grade steam wand with a single-hole tip, attached to the machine by an articulating ball joint that allowed the steam wand to tilt in all directions as well as swivel.
the Senseo coffee pods, was filed on September 30, 1998, by the Dutch firm "Sara Lee/DE N.V." The European Patent Office granted EP 0904717 on July 11, 2001.
These mills offer a wide range of grind settings, making them suitable to grind coffee for various brewing systems such as espresso, drip, percolators, French press, and others.
This term was loaned from medieval Eastern Aramaic forms in ʾaḇrēqā, and originated in New Persian *ābrēž (cf.
Strength depends instead on grind: finer grinds yield a "shorter" (ristretto) espresso (less liquid, so higher brew ratio, at same yield gives more strength), while coarser grinds yield a "longer" (lungo) espresso, while an intermediate grind yields a "normale" espresso.
Cream varieties, often called "creamers" in the US, may be made from dairy milk, or be non-dairy creamers derived from corn syrup, soy, or nuts.
Contestants qualify for the international competition by winning their respective national championships.
Keurig beverage varieties include hot and cold coffees, teas, cocoas, dairy-based beverages, lemonades, cider, and fruit-based drinks.
The version of the Anna reviewed did not include a PID controller, and was equipped with an earlier, pannarello-style steam wand cover, an ineffectual design that Hoffmann removed prior to testing.
Products De'Longhi is especially well known for the Artista Series espresso machines, the De'Longhi gelato maker as well as the Pinguino portable air conditioner.
The original sugar holders were box-like, they evolved into a shape of a bowl with a close-fitting lid (with the shape similar to the modern designs), later were made of glass or had a glass insert.
In 2015 Lavazza introduced the A Modo Mio Fantasia coffee machine designed together with Electrolux.
A technical judge grades their technique and cleanliness on a range of technical and sensory attributes.
Although often part of a place setting in a tea or dinner set, teacups with unique styling are often sold with matching saucers, sometimes alone, or as part of a tea set, including a teapot and small dessert plates.
Bakke and his associates, including John Blackwell and Joe Monaghan, exhibited one of the machines on a portable espresso cart at the 1979 Edmonds Arts Festival.
Dry granular products do not need to be refrigerated and can be used and stored in locations which do not have a refrigerator.
The Büttner extraction method was boldly marketed claiming to be the world's best moka and coffee filter ("Der beste Mokka- und Kaffeefilter der Welt").
As soon as the mixture begins to froth, and before it boils over, it is taken off the heat; it may be briefly reheated twice more to increase the desired froth.
Competition Formal barista competitions originated in Norway, and one such is the World Barista Championships, held annually at varied international locations.
In 2006, Jura inaugurated the visitor's centre "JURAworld of Coffee" at the Niederbuchsiten headquarters.
The commercial sector includes several products for brewing and dispensing coffee, tea, water, and other filters.
During the same year a feasibility study with the creation of some subsystems was conducted in order to validate the technological choices.
Hedrick also gave the Lelit Anna and Victoria 'B' grades in his May 2025 "Ultimate Budget Espresso Machine Tier List," describing them as strong competitors to the current Gaggia Classic Pro and Rancilio Silvia, as well as the Profitec GO and Gemilai Owl.
Automatic drip-coffee makers Electric drip-coffee makers One of the first electrical drip coffee makers was the German Wigomat, patented in 1954.
The machine also featured a flush cycle (60 ml) to clean the hydraulic circuit at the end of supply.
The coffee sleeve was invented in 1991 by Jay Sorensen and patented in 1995 (under the trademarked name Java Jacket), and are now commonly utilized by coffee houses and other vendors that sell hot beverages dispensed in disposable paper cups.
Turkish coffee is brewed with extremely finely-ground coffee that is left suspended in the final beverage.
Proportions vary, and the volume (and low density) of crema makes volume-based comparisons difficult (precise measurement uses the mass of the drink).
Two years before Liebeck, a similar lawsuit was settled during the trial for $15 million due to injuries from a sink in a rented apartment.
Argotec then approached ASI, with Lavazza as a partner, and ASI agreed to sponsor the ISSpresso as an ASI payload on the ISS.
The company was founded by Dave Petrillo and Dave Jackson, mechanical engineers from Pennington, New Jersey.
a barista) to pull a lever to tension a spring, which then drives a piston to pressurize heated brew water to the approximately 9 bars of pressure required to produce espresso, and afforded the user a considerable degree of manual control over the process.
By adding the additional sugar to the beans it increases the effects of the Maillard reaction during the roasting process, thus giving the beans more of that distinct flavor.
See also Coffee portal Minto wheel Bodum, makers of the Santos, Pebo and ePebo vacuum coffee makers References External links Vac Pot How-To pdf Siphon brewer in operation, Sydney Australia
Menus at net-filter venues center on traditional orders such as cà phê đen, cà phê sữa, and bạc xỉu, rather than a broad range of espresso-based drinks.
In 2022, Rancilio introduced the Stile home grinder, featuring 58mm Fiorenzato flat burrs and digital controls; the Rocky grinder is still available.
Apart from a more shallow saucer the essential elements of these two forms in many contemporary examples have changed little since the mid-18th century.
The resulting strong coffee, with foam on the top and a thick layer of grounds at the bottom, is drunk from small cups.
Rancilio also changed the design of the overpressure valve (OPV) which regulates pressure between the pump and the grouphead.
See also Bialetti Cimbali De'Longhi Elektra (espresso machines) Faema FrancisFrancis Gaggia La Marzocco La Pavoni Lelit Saeco List of Italian companies References External links Rancilio Group Official site Rancilio North America Official site Rancilio Museum Official site
According to connoisseurs In a paper for the 2013 Oxford Food Symposium, Tan and Bursa identified the features of the art or craft of making and serving Turkish coffee, according to the traditional procedures: Roasting.
The company's primary product is single-serve flash-frozen coffee capsules, but it also offers a subscription service that delivers frozen capsules to customers regularly.
Cappuccino is equal parts of espresso coffee and milk and froth, sometimes sprinkled with cinnamon or powdered cocoa.
The thicker paper of the Chemex filters removes most of the coffee oils and makes coffee that is much "cleaner" than coffee brewed in other coffee-making systems.
In Australia, Woolworths and Gloria Jeans promote and make their own capsules exclusively for the system, with the latter also selling Gloria Jeans branded machines.
In the summer of 2020 amid the global COVID-19 pandemic, Nespresso released an Internet ad on their YouTube channel that focused on sustainability.
The Tassimo Hot Beverage System is a consumer single-serve coffee system that prepares one-cup servings of espresso, regular coffee, tea, hot chocolate and various other coffee drinks, notably those including milk such as latte or cappuccino.
In each round competitors present a 15-minute routine in which they must prepare and serve a total of 12 drinks: (4) espresso, (4) milk beverages, and (4) 'signature beverages' (a non-alcoholic espresso-based cocktail) to each of four sensory judges.
Hoffmann praised its build quality, overall value, and compact design (the smallest footprint among those tested), noting that the machine did not compromise on user interface or experience despite packing the same features into a smaller space.
The store features the full line of Keurig machines and accessories and nearly 200 varieties of K-Cups for creating individualized 3-, 6-, or 12-pod boxes.
The stand is used to hold a coffee cup or coffee pot on its base, and the bolsita is suspended from the top of the chorreador stand, hanging above the container.
The Silvia Pro is a dual boiler machine, with the same 300cc brew boiler as the regular Silvia alongside a dedicated 1000cc steam boiler, allowing users to steam milk while simultaneously pulling a shot of espresso.
On 30 September 2017, Paolo Nespoli used the espresso machine on board the ISS to celebrate International Coffee Day.
Retrieved 21 September 2023.{{cite news}}: CS1 maint: deprecated archival service (link) External links Official website
La Pavoni is an Italian manufacturer of espresso machines and coffee equipment founded in 1905, best known for their domestic direct-lever models, particularly the Europiccola (1961-) and Professional (1974-).
She placed the coffee cup between her knees and pulled the far side of the lid toward her to remove it.
The event is a multi-round, elimination tournament, in which competitors have five minutes to brew coffee.
The astronauts could select from the following options: short black (30 ml), long black (60 ml), and hot drink (tea or broth, 120 ml).
Hot water is poured from a kettle or anything that can boil the water until the lower edge of the bag gets in contact with the surface of the coffee.
The editor Emacs includes a fully functional client-side implementation of it, and a number of bug reports exist complaining about Mozilla's lack of support for the protocol.
AGA) is an Intergovernmental Academy of Somali Language in the Horn of Africa, established by the governments of Djibouti, Somalia, Ethiopia, Kenya and Somaliland.
Co-occurrence in this linguistic sense can be interpreted as an indicator of semantic proximity or an idiomatic expression.
Bitexts are generated by a piece of software called an alignment tool, or a bitext tool, which automatically aligns the original and translated versions of the same text.
Tools 11 million word Welsh language dataset The CorCenCC sampling frame Transcription protocols for spoken Welsh Welsh-language POS tagset and tagger, CyTag (English: ): a Welsh POS tagger (with bespoke tagset) designed and constructed for the project.
The synonyms had a high-frequency variation between the first and second halves of the 20th century.
The tag sets for heavily inflected languages such as Greek and Latin can be very large; tagging words in agglutinative languages such as Inuit languages may be virtually impossible.
Other topic models are generally extensions on LDA, such as Pachinko allocation, which improves on LDA by modeling correlations between topics in addition to the word correlations which constitute topics.
Its objectives are the promotion and standardization of the Galician language, understanding it to be the same language as Portuguese.
The origins of the frequent s-plural in modern Dutch are disputed; the ending became common in the Middle Dutch period.
Commissioners of Official Languages From 1999 to 2006, the commissioner was Dyane Adam, who was born in Casselman, Ontario, and holds a doctorate in clinical psychology from the University of Ottawa.
In addition this variety of the language follows the pattern of Pompeu Fabra standards who standardized the Catalan language in Catalonia.
In November 2015, Bhagyesh Jha and two other writers Chinu Modi and Vinod Bhatt, said to be the supporter of Jha, used the word Taliban for the writers like Dhiru Parikh and Niranjan Bhagat, who had supported the agitation.
The corpus is generally available only to researchers at Oxford University Press, but other researchers who can demonstrate a strong need may apply for access.
Awards and honors Fellow, Cognitive Science Society (2019) GradEd Champion, Office of the Vice Provost for Graduate Education, Stanford University (2018) Fellow, the Linguistic Society of America in 2014.
The Academia de Lenguas Mayas de Guatemala, or ALMG (English: Guatemalan Academy of Mayan Languages) is a Guatemalan organisation that regulates the use of the 22 Mayan languages spoken within the borders of the republic.
The Himalayan Languages Project, launched in 1993, is a research collective based at Leiden University and comprising much of the world's authoritative research on the lesser-known and endangered languages of the Himalayas, in Nepal, China, Bhutan, and India.
Hybrid models incorporate the distributed approach to learning along with more localised representations for common (high-frequency) or irregular forms of language.
The meeting was held from 23 April to 6 May 1951 and resulted in the creation of the association and its permanent commission.
For example, its linguistic rules, the Norms of El Puig, were the official Valencian standard in the early 1980s.
Dictionaries of Idiom Neutral and an outline of the grammar were published in several European languages in 1902 and 1903.
See also Irish language in Northern Ireland European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages British-Irish Council Languages in the United Kingdom Language revival Bòrd na Gàidhlig (Scotland) An Coimisinéir Teanga References External links Official website (in Irish) Official website (in English)
The basic work of the school is Dansk Funktionel Grammatik (Danish Functional Grammar) by Harder (2006).
Examples are Dalmatian, Etruscan, also known as Rasenna, Dadanitic, a Semitic language that may be close to classical Arabic, Lombardic, Burgundian, Vandalic, and Oscan, Umbrian, and Faliscan, all Italic languages that were related to Latin.
When the Spanish first arrived in Peru, Quechua served as a language of wider communication, a lingua franca, between Spaniards and Peruvian natives.
Significance The Urdu Science Board has played a vital role in making science accessible to the general public and promoting the Urdu language in academia and technical fields.
History Different practices for Danish orthography has been in existence since the language started to be written down.
In order for the young speaker to produce sounds easier, he or she may replace the sound in a specific word to a different one, which is somewhat similar.
In 2001, Tartu and Copenhagen scholars inaugurated the annual international conferences for biosemiotic research known as the Gatherings in Biosemiotics, later organised by the International Society for Biosemiotic Studies.
References External links AVL Resolutions, at their homepage, including both normative and non-normative.
geographical names or people) and partial syntantic information (which also allows for the visualization of dependency trees).
The National Council for the Maltese Language (Maltese: Il-Kunsill Nazzjonali tal-Ilsien Malti) was founded in April 2005 with the enactment of the Maltese Language Act in Chapter 470 of the Laws of Malta.
The council’s activities are outlined in the Polish Language Act (Polish: "Ustawa o języku polskim") of 1999.
Between these two extremes the rate of change between the groups is quite high, approximately 10% per age cohort.
Initiatives The board has undertaken several initiatives: Launched the Urdu Science Kitab Ghar, a display center for publications.
Its members included Roman Jakobson (its founder), Filipp Fortunatov, Grigoriy Vinokur, Boris Tomashevsky, and Petr Bogatyrev.
See also Norms of El Puig Lo Rat Penat References External links Section of Valencian language and Literature and dictionaries of the Royal Academy of Valencian Culture.
145, CSLI, ISBN 978-1-57586-401-3 Sag, Ivan A; Wasow, Thomas; Bender, Emily (2003), Syntactic theory : a formal introduction, CSLI lecture notes, no.
It was established by an Act of the Scottish Parliament in 2005 (which took effect in early 2006) and is based in Inverness.
Overview The term "universal grammar" is placeholder for whichever domain-specific features of linguistic competence turn out to be innate.
When it was initially proposed, critics of the Neogrammarians proposed an alternate position that summarised by the maxim "each word has its own history".
The basic theoretical framework, called “Glossematics”, was laid out in Hjelmslev’s two main works: Prolegomena to a Theory of Language and Résumé of a Theory of Language.
History of development Sketch Engine is a product of Lexical Computing, a company founded in 2003 by the lexicographer and research scientist Adam Kilgarriff.
This arrangement may have been facilitated by the originality of the concept and the prominence associated with the project.
Over time, it became customary for successful candidates to inscribe their names on the walls as a rite of passage.
Chomsky may have tentatively entertained the first of these ideas in the early 1960s, but quickly moved away from it to the second, and finally to the third.
The Foundation has undertaken a wide range of activities, including the publication of books, dictionaries, and research works related to tribal languages and culture.
The Language Observatory Project Mikami, Y., Zavarsky Pavol, Mohd Zaidi Abd Rozan, Izumi Suzuki, Masayuki Takahashi, Tomohide Maki, Irwan Nizan Ayob, Massimo Santini, Paolo Boldi, Sebastiano Vigna, In Poster Proceedings of the Fourteenth International World Wide Web Conference (WWW2005).
Comparison to real-time sociolinguistics Apparent-time sociolinguistics is often contrasted with real-time sociolinguistics.
Understanding keywords in this light becomes crucial for understanding how the politics of China evolves as Communism emerges and as the free market and citizens' rights develop.
Other famous members include Voltaire; Montesquieu; Victor Hugo; Alexandre Dumas, fils; Émile Littré; Louis Pasteur; Louis de Broglie; and Henri Poincaré.
Võro Institute (Võro: Võro Instituut, Estonian: Võru Instituut) is an Estonian state research and development institution dedicated to the preservation and promotion of the Võro language and culture.
A language observatory is something which is built or implemented to observe and measure language activities in society.
Dictionary and other publications Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka Brunei publishes Kamus Bahasa Melayu Brunei, the official dictionary of the Brunei Malay language, the de facto lingua franca in Brunei.
Hyperbaton Often adjectives are emphasised by separating them from the noun by other words (a technique known as hyperbaton).
In 1952 he served on the Advisory Committee on Arabic and Persian Names, a committee established by the United States Board on Geographic Names.
Selected publications Bresnan wrote an informal and somewhat humorous account of her career and works for her ACL Lifetime Achievement Award.
It was created as the Preparatory Commission for the Unification of the National Language by the Republic (then still based in Nanjing) on 21 April 1919.
The Consultant Council is composed by eleven specialists from all the world, and its mission is to advise the General Council in all the scientific matters that it is requested of.
True to Zipf's law, the second-place word "of" accounts for slightly over 3.5% of words (36,411 occurrences), followed by "and" (28,852).
The census for 1948 reported that 7,126,913 people or 37.11% of the population spoke the language, representing an increase of 11.7% from the 1939 figure of 4,068,565.
The committee was known in English as the Mandarin Promotion Council or the National Languages Promotion Committee until 2003, but the Chinese name has not changed.
As other West Germanic languages seem to attest a plural ending -ō (< Proto-Germanic -ōz), the precise origins of this new ending are uncertain.
Nevertheless, increased time spent may increase an individual's perceived speaking time and this may be the reason for the leader emergence.
Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad is a literary institution situated in the Indian state of Maharashtra for the purpose of the "furtherance of Marathi language and literature".
On the first of July 1974 the Institute of Modern Languages was established as an integral part of University of Dhaka, incorporating the Department of Foreign Languages of 1964 into its constitution.
The Tower of Babel is an international etymological database project that is part of the Evolution of Human Languages project.
The graph in the re-formulation by Mizutani is more easily interpreted, and shows a scatter plot of nouns versus other word classes.
Under the departmental plan for overseas, the General Delegation of the French language and the languages of France / Ministry of Culture and Communication, held in Cayenne, French Guiana, from 14 to 18 December 2011, the congress of multilingualism overseas (EGM-OM).
"Thinking the same as he had felt before." Dependent clauses with ut almost always follow the verb: Ubiīs imperat ut pecora dēdūcant.
History Coonceil ny Gaelgey was set up in December 1985 as a sub-committee of the Manx Heritage Foundation.
It has been used for research into topics such as pronunciation modeling and automatic speech recognition.
1890–1907.{{cite encyclopedia}}: CS1 maint: location missing publisher (link) "Академия Российская" [Russian Academy].
Zipf's law implicitly assumes a fixed vocabulary size, but the Harmonic series with s = 1 does not converge, while the Zipf–Mandelbrot generalization with s > 1 does.
As it was extremely difficult to standardize the spelling of kanak languages, a program was developed by the KLA and the University of New Caledonia that would propose a common writing standard.
(2008), "The Pai-lang songs: The earliest texts in a Tibeto-Burman language and their Late Old Chinese transcriptions", in Beckwith, Christopher I.
Limitations and misappropriates Despite being an excellent source of lexical information, the BNC can only really be used to study a limited set of grammatical patterns, particularly those which have distinctive lexical correlates.
Continuous Readings In recent years, AGAL has organized a series of continuous readings of Lusophone books.
Leiden University (abbreviated as LEI; Dutch: Universiteit Leiden) is a public research university in Leiden, Netherlands.
The GKA has a book publishing programme, but visibility of the books produced is seen as probably insufficient to what could be possible.
Its articles are a mix of Konknni written in Devanagari-script, the Roman (Romi) script, and occasionally in English too.
New words which have appeared enough in print and speech to be considered notable are added to Retskrivningsordbogen, which all government institutions and schools are obliged by law to follow.
The post of Irish language Commissioner (Irish: An Coimisinéir Gaeilge) is an office created by the Identity and Language (Northern Ireland) Act 2022 in Northern Ireland to promote and safeguard the respective language rights of Irish speakers in the country.
The recordings are also reused in Natural Language Processing projects, for example to drive Mozilla's DeepSpeech speech recognition engines.
After the Restoration of 1660 Around 1660 John Evelyn and Robert Boyle were interested once more in the idea of an academy.
Guide to the YIVO Archives (1998) – Comprehensive guide by Fruma Mohrer and Marek Web to the holdings of the YIVO archives.
The Vietnamese Nôm Preservation Foundation (Vietnamese: Hội Bảo tồn di sản Nôm; Hán Nôm: 會保存遺産喃), shortened as the Nôm Foundation and abbreviated as VNPF, was an American nonprofit agency for language preservation headquartered in Cary, North Carolina, with an office in Hanoi, Vietnam.
It is one of the oldest research institutes in the Tajik Academy of Sciences; it acts as the official authority on the language and contributes to linguistic research on the Tajik language and other languages of Tajikistan.
Calendar Names Expert Commission The Calendar Names Expert Commission deals with the person names and their inclusion into the calendar.
While no mental examination was conducted on AA during the time the naming experiments were performed, AA was tested using a Japanese version of the mini–mental state examination in June 2009.
Besides more popular test types, there are other methods like thermometer judgments or magnitude estimation (ME); however, it has been argued that ME studies have unproductive variation in their results.
Genre and mode SCOTS is a multimedia corpus, containing written texts and spoken texts, available as orthographic transcriptions, accompanied by source audio or video files.
of the Workshop on Balto-Slavic Natural Language Processing associated with the International Conference RANLP, Hissar, Bulgaria.
References External links ACM Award for Interlisp [1] Intelligent Linguistic Architectures CSLI book about Kaplan's work.
It currently contains more than 1 billion word forms that are automatically lemmatized and POS-/grammeme-tagged, i.e.
ISBN 978-90-420-1322-3 See also Slavistics External links Studies in Slavic and General Linguistics on the publishers website Department of Russian Studies & Slavic Languages and Cultures at Leiden University
1941–1942: Abraham Rosen (pseudonym "Ben Adir"), in Yiddish: אַבֿרהם ראָזין (פּסעוודאָנים: בן־אַדיר) 1942–1956: Isaac Nachman Steinberg, in Yiddish: יצחק נחמן שטיינבערג 1957–1979: Dr.
The Loeb Classical Library and the Clay Sanskrit Library are two examples of dual-language series of texts.
See also Alaska Native Language Center Alaska Native languages References External links Alaska Native Language Archive Digital Endangered Languages and Musics Archiving Network (DELAMAN)
If, instead of the Latin ones, the English cardinal numbers are furtherly used, then they are called "four-gram", "five-gram", etc.
Domain-specific hypothesis: this uses the theory of evolution to posit that certain categories that have an evolutionary advantage over others (such as useful items like tools) have specialized and functionally dissociated neural circuits in the brain.
In addition, an interministerial working group would be set up at the Prime Minister's Office to work on the preparation of a draft bill for the creation of this Language Academy.
As a result of this emphasis of temporary states, present participles represent the majority of the 4,541 terms in Column II.
The area Interaction is a leading international center for conversation research and interactional linguistics.
In 1996, the centre held a "Spellin Collogue" in an attempt to reform Scots orthography, but was ultimately unsuccessful.
Similarly, Greek numerical prefixes such as "monomer", "dimer", "trimer", "tetramer", "pentamer", etc., or English cardinal numbers, "one-mer", "two-mer", "three-mer", etc.
In 2006, the Danish Language Council went through changes in their organization, in which the position as a director was created, and Sabine Kirchmeier became the first in that position.
Another of its functions is to promote Mayan culture, which it does by providing courses in the country's various Mayan languages and by training Spanish-Mayan interpreters.
Groupe μ' (French for "Group μ") is the collective pseudonym under which a group of Belgian 20th-century semioticians wrote a series of books, presenting an exposition of modern semiotics.
Language learners can freely download pronunciations and use them on GoldenDict, a popular dictionary software.
In his opinion, the general world-view can be fragmented into different more local pictures of reality, such as naive geometry, naive physics, naive psychology, and so forth.
This is a blatant attempt to distract attention from the independent endorsement of the highly effective Safe Schools program.
Organizational programs provide an array of resources and activities to ensure the relevance of the Yiddish language to contemporary life.
It also has the task of coining such words from existing Turkish roots if no such equivalents exist, and actively promoting the adoption of these new coinages instead of their English equivalents in the daily lives of the Turkish population.
TEI and access The corpus is marked up following the recommendations of the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) and includes full linguistic annotation and contextual information.
The Parishad according to Deshpande lead in the demand for the formation of a separate linguistic state – Maharashtra.
TDK also publishes Türk Dili, a journal on Turkish literature, since 1951, Belleten, the annual journal on Turkic languages, since 1953, and Türk Dünyası, another periodical published twice a year on Turkish language and literature since 1996.
Among the prominent members of this new generation of the Copenhagen School were Peter Harder, Elisabeth Engberg-Pedersen, Frans Gregersen, Una Canger and Michael Fortescue.
let me say here for the sake of any mathematician who may plan to formulate the ensuing data more exactly, the ability of the highly intense positive to become the highly intense negative, in my opinion, introduces the devil into the formula in the form of − i .
For the languages that make a distinction between palato-alveolar and retroflex affricates and fricatives (Mam, Ixil, Tektitek, Awakatek, Qʼanjobʼal, Poptiʼ, and Akatek in Guatemala, and Yucatec in Mexico) the ALMG suggests the following set of conventions.
As of December 16, 2018, Stanford lists forty-four books and papers that Bresnan has either authored or co-authored since 1996.
Specifically, it participated in the implementation of "FranceTerme", a terminological dictionary available to the general public on the internet.
The three groups discussed for two months and adopted 15 symbols from Zhang Binglin's all-Zhuanshu Jiyin Zimu (記音字母), which was the proposal by the Zhejiang Committee.
Some language councils are national and tied to a specific state, while councils without association to any country where the language is dominant also exist.
Publications The board has published over 700 books on various topics, including science, social sciences, history, children’s literature, and technical education.
Lia Rumantscha (Romansh: [liɐ̯ruˈmantʃɐ] ) is an organization that promotes Romansh language usage and study.
Those individuals who speak more also receive higher ratings on leader, communication and contribution-related measures.
Publications TSKK has come out with a number of publications in the Konknni language, or in languages like English introducing themes related to Konknni, which is India's smallest language, spoken mainly along the west coast of this country.
Currently, the Institute of the Lithuanian Language consists of six research centres and two non-research departments.
Among the most important tasks of the council were standardization of Bokmål and Nynorsk, linguistic advice and linguistic quality assurance of textbooks.
Research African American language studies Baugh's early research focused on the language and culture of African Americans, employing a combination of quantitative and qualitative sociolinguistic methods.
A seminar on "Language and Society in India" was held in 1967 and in 1969 the Central Institute of Indian Languages was founded, which had a particular success into drawing young linguists into applied studies.
If Latin numerical prefixes are used, then n-gram of size 1 is called a "unigram", size 2 a "bigram" (or, less commonly, a "digram") etc.
Along with joint attention, Clark found that in order for a child to learn the terms for colors, the child and adult must interact with conversation.
Other linguists have opposed that notion, arguing that languages are so diverse that the postulated universality is rare.
Opacity exists when a phonological rule that exists in a given language appears to be contradicted by the surface structure (i.e., actual pronunciation) of words in the language.
After the approval of the candidacy by the Cabinet, the director of the Centre is appointed by the Minister for Justice.
Its purpose was to prepare for the nationwide teaching of the Tagalog-based national language (Wikang Pambansa na batay/base sa Tagalog) by creating a dictionary and a grammar book with a standardized orthography.
In 2001, three additional volumes were published containing mostly words from the 20th century that were not included in the previous 43 volumes.
There may also be multiple language academies attempting to regulate and codify the same language, sometimes based in different countries and sometimes influenced by political factors.
Organisation The Gujarat Academy oversees five other academies; namely the Hindi Sahitya Academy for Hindi, the Sanskrit Sahitya Academy for Sanskrit, the Kutchi Sahitya Academy for Kutchi, the Sindhi Sahitya Academy for Sindhi and the Urdu Sahitya Academy for Urdu.
It is also used to ensure professional training and improvement towards those teaching the language.
Nevertheless, until the unappreciated concept in question has been thoroughly investigated and shown to be a real phenomenon, it is improbable that the term would be used by anyone other than its creator and achieve the status of neologism.
The library currently The library reopened at the end of 2006, at the same time that Paris Descartes Social Sciences Faculty moved from the Sorbonne to its new location in Rue des Saints-Pères.
SSGL appears at irregular intervals, but the editors aim at bringing out on the average one volume a year.
Vicente Aleixandre, 1950–1984, poet Pere Gimferrer, since 1985, poet P seat Jerónimo Pardo, 1714–1740.
Российская академия (1783—1841): язык и литература в России на рубеже XVIII—XIX веков [The Russian Academy (1783–1841): Language and Literature in Russia at the Turn of the 18th–19th Centuries] (PDF) (in Russian).
The Language Act was founded on the principle of Russian-Estonian bilingualism, requiring individuals in certain positions to demonstrate proficiency in Estonian in addition to Russian.
References External links (in Icelandic) The Icelandic Language Institute Webpage Archived 2007-05-07 at the Wayback Machine English version (in Icelandic) Glossary Database English version The Icelandic Language Institute from randburg.com
That idea is fundamental to the modern comparative method since it necessarily assumes regular correspondences between sounds in related languages and thus regular sound changes from the proto-language.
Recent work in behavioral economics has purported that elicitation techniques can be used to control subject misconceptions and mitigate errors from generally accepted experimental design practices.
The institution includes the most distinguished scientists, also called "academics", that are involved in research centers and other organisations inside and outside Albania.
According to the commissioner's website, there are two principles that underpin the work of the commissioner, namely: Welsh should not be treated less favourably than the English language in Wales People should be able to live their lives in Wales through the medium of Welsh if they so wish.
Organization In 2023, the Academy of Albanological Studies was integrated into the Academy of Sciences, while the latter was reorganized.
An elicitation technique is any of a number of data collection techniques used in anthropology, cognitive science, counseling, education, knowledge engineering, linguistics, management, philosophy, psychology, or other fields to gather knowledge or information from people.
(ed.), Medieval Tibeto-Burman Languages III, Halle: International Institute for Tibetan and Buddhist Studies GmbH, pp.
Since a newly elected member is required to eulogize their predecessor in the installation ceremony, it is not uncommon that potential candidates refuse to apply for particular seats because they dislike the predecessors.
(1994) showed that infants, aging three-days old, are sensitive to acoustic properties of a language.
This corpus first set the bar for the scientific study of the frequency and distribution of word categories in everyday language use.
The database consists of two major components: the digitalized recordings from MARSEC and the annotations.
Alignments of parallel corpora at sentence level are prerequisite for many areas of linguistic research.
Merlan (1994) 12 A Grammar of Berbice Dutch Creole – Silvia Kouwenberg (1994) 13 A Grammar of Norman French of the Channel Islands – Anthony Liddicoat (1994) 14 A Grammar of Supyire – Robert Carlson (1994) 15 A Grammar of Kayardild – Nicholas D.
The Scythian theory was further developed by Andreas Jäger (1686) and William Wotton (1713), who made early forays to reconstruct the primitive common language.
More specifically, infants by 2 months of age can from vague categories of different rhythmic structures, those that are native classes, and those that are nonnative.
Synopsis This book's general subject is structuralism, which is a way of looking at the world that focuses on how different parts relate to each other rather than on the individual parts themselves.
Chartered Institute of Linguists website CIOL Language Level Frameworks The Linguist – magazine published by the CIOL
Foras na Gaeilge ([ˈfˠɔɾˠəsˠ n̪ˠə ˈɡeːlʲɟə], "Irish Institute"; FnaG) is a public body responsible for the promotion of the Irish language throughout the island of Ireland, including both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
The Royal Flemish Academy for Dutch Language and Literature (Dutch: Koninklijke Academie voor Nederlandse Taal en Letteren, pronounced [ˈkoːnɪŋkləkə ˌaːkaːˈdeːmi voːr ˈneːdərlɑntsə ˈtaːl ɛn ˈlɛtərə(n)], abbr.
See also Sino-Tibetan Etymological Dictionary and Thesaurus International Conference on Sino-Tibetan Languages and Linguistics References External links Himalayan Languages Project official website The Kirat Rai Association's web portal
Elicitation, in which knowledge is sought directly from human beings, is usually distinguished from indirect methods such as gathering information from written sources.
A fifteen million word subset of the corpus, called the Open American National Corpus (OANC), is freely available with no restrictions on its use from the ANC Website.
The development of technology, new techniques and methodology relating to massive corpora have all consolidated this trend.
In September 2006, the Icelandic Language Institute was merged with four other institutes to form the Árni Magnússon Institute for Icelandic Studies.
In 2012, the center received a top rating of four stars from the Charity Navigator non-profit evaluation service.
It aims to promote scientific and technical knowledge in Urdu language through the publication of books and journals.
The Gujarat Sahitya Akademi (Gujarati: ગુજરાત સાહિત્ય અકાદમી) or Gujarat Sahitya Academy, established in 1981, is a government institution dedicated to the development of the languages spoken in Gujarat, India and their literature.
The section concludes with summaries of a number of different constructions, and a synopsis of the Breton mutation system.
These conversations were produced in different situations, including formal business or government meetings to conversations on radio shows and phone-ins.
The centre's aim is to carry out lexicographic research into needs-adapted information and data access, i.e.
Although "PropBank" refers to a specific corpus produced by Martha Palmer et al., the term propbank is also coming to be used as a common noun referring to any corpus that has been annotated with propositions and their arguments.
Collocations can be in a syntactic relation (such as verb–object: make and decision), lexical relation (such as antonymy), or they can be in no linguistically defined relation.
Another similarity among creole languages can be identified in the fact that questions are created simply by changing the intonation of a declarative sentence; not its word order or content.
SAM produced many speech research tools (including the SAMPA computer-based phonetic transcription which was also used for the BABEL project) and a corpus of recorded speech material distributed on CD-ROM.
In Europe, tag sets from the Eagles Guidelines see wide use and include versions for multiple languages.
Beyond text mining, topic models have also been used to uncover latent structures in fields such as genetic information, bioinformatics, computer vision, and social networks.
It was suggested that human language predates the out-of-Africa migrations of 50,000 to 70,000 years ago and that language might have been the essential cultural and cognitive innovation that facilitated human colonization of the globe.
Their idea is that "all representatives of the species Homo sapiens presumably share a common origin, [so] it would be natural to suppose – although this is a goal yet to be achieved – that all human languages also go back to some common source.
The understanding of the Etruscan language has gradually increased over the years, as new knowledge from the Etruscan texts themselves, and from research in other disciplines of Etruscology.
A group of academics was founded by ASALE in 2018 and submitted to the government of Israel for recognition.
Introduction Ministry of Education & Culture was the ministry that was responsible for education and culture in Somalia.
Its compilation started in 1998 at the Institute of Linguistics of the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, University of Zagreb following the ideas of Marko Tadić.
Organization The council is composed of 36 members, including linguists, scientists, other specialists (e.g., in law, history of art, computer science, medicine, physics).
The need for observatories According to the UNESCO report "Atlas of the World Languages in Danger of Disappearing", between 6,000 and 7,000 languages are spoken throughout the world and, that many more have become extinct.
Pritenic is a proposed reconstructed Celtic language (or a branch of languages), thought to be spoken by Picts and Priteni in Britain during late Iron Age.
References External links http://www.nepalbhashaacademy.org.np Archived 17 May 2013 at the Wayback Machine
African American Vernacular English: Features and Use, Evolution, and Educational Implications, Oxford (1999): Blackwell.
Here are further examples; these are word-level 3-grams and 4-grams (and counts of the number of times they appeared) from the Google n-gram corpus.
Instruction was for the most part organized in the form of intensive Summer Schools which were conducted by distinguished scholars invited from overseas, e.g.
[299 pp.] References External links Kira Hall's home page (as of June 2021) Kira Hall's home page, archived 2006 Program in Culture, Language and Social Practice
History Foundation and early history In 1575, the emerging Dutch Republic did not have universities in its northern heartland.
The Center for Jewish History is a partnership of five Jewish history, scholarship, and art organizations in New York City, namely the American Jewish Historical Society, American Sephardi Federation, Leo Baeck Institute New York, Yeshiva University Museum, and YIVO Institute for Jewish Research.
The Abuabdullo Rudaki Institute of Language and Literature (Tajik: Институти забон ва адабиёт ба номи А.
In the 1970s and 1980s they worked on developing a theoretical approach towards visual rhetoric and visual semiotics that involved classifying images according to their differences from plastic and iconic norms.
They note that Lhuyd partially identified Grimm's law, before the work of Jacob Grimm and Rasmus Rask, and produced more sophisticated work than the later work of William Jones.
The event was organized by Djibouti's Ministry of Islamic Affairs, Culture and Waqf in conjunction with the Somali-Speaking PEN Centre of Djibouti, and was attended by around 50 prominent Somali-speaking intellectuals from the region and elsewhere.
The Moscow linguistic circle was a group of social scientists in semiotics, literary theory, and linguistics active in Moscow from 1915 to ca.
There are also a number of functions offering statistical summaries of the collected texts References External links Official website
Fishman's history of the Paper Brigade in Vilna, recounting how YIVO scholars and activists rescued books and archival materials from Nazi destruction.
The Prague structuralists also had a significant influence on structuralist film theory, especially through the introduction of the ostensive sign.
The publication of new editions has often been a source of heated debate and national controversy, as recently as 1993.
On the other hand, in the Swedish language, the institute usually promotes Swedish usage, with the key aim to prevent the Swedish spoken in Finland from straying too far from its counterpart in Sweden.
Based on this, linguists focused more on the spoken forms of the language, and devoted more time to the study of non-standard dialects than previous linguists had done.
Initially, it was intended that there would be five members on the Coonceil, however, when Doug Faragher died in 1987 no appointment was made to replace him until 1996 when Brian Stowell was appointed.
It was then that the Act of the Ministry of Education of the Government of the then Socialist Republic of Macedonia for transforming the Department of the Macedonian Language and Literature at the Institute of Folklore into an autonomous Institute of the Macedonian Language was empowered.
In this collection all documents are categorized into different subjects such as political, cultural, etc.; in about 4300 different subject categories.
Two of the council's primary responsibilities are the promotion of the Maltese language, and establishing effective bilingualism between Maltese and English.
The 1991 census of India found 1,576 "mother tongues" with separate grammatical structures and 1,796 languages classified as "other mother tongues".
CIOL also hosts the IoL Educational Trust (IoLET), a charitable company limited by guarantee and an accredited awarding organisation.
The Bibliography is published on the authority of the Permanent International Committee of Linguistics (CIPL) and is in accordance with the rules of the International Standard Bibliographic Description (ISBD) and the International Federation of Library Associations (IFLA).
The original version of this article was translated, with adaptations, from the corresponding article on the Spanish-language Wikipedia.
With the cessation of its territorialist activity decades earlier, the Freeland League officially changed its name to the League for Yiddish on September 13, 1979, in order to continue its focus on promoting Yiddish as a living language.
Currently, the ANC includes a range of genres, including emerging genres such as email, tweets, and web data that are not included in earlier corpora such as the British National Corpus.
The corpus was collected under the direction of linguist Janet Holmes and includes broadcast transcripts as well as informal conversations, telephone conversations, lectures, and oral history interviews.
A brief timeline may help contextualize: Late 1950s - Moscow mathematical linguistics paves way for cybernetic theories of culture 1960s - Semiotics born out of cybernetics and information theory.
The decision to form the institute came about from a meeting in September 2000, in Miranda do Douro, where a number of persons interested in the language met, also passing the resolution to establish Mirandese under the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.
Flasdieck distinguished three phases: first private initiatives up to the middle of the 17th century; then the Restoration period in which the Royal Society and its membership took an interest; and a later period in which proposals to mirror the French Académie met with serious opposition.
Thus in addition to the distortion inherent in transcription, interpretation is complicated by the transmission history of the text and uncertainty about the pronunciation of Eastern Han Chinese.
After the failure of Old National Pronunciation, it moved towards what is now Modern Standard Mandarin in 1932, with pronunciation based on the Beijing dialect.
The theory provides a large and elaborate basis for linguistic description and, due to its formal character, lends itself particularly well to computer applications, including machine translation, phraseology, and lexicography.
This is extremely expensive, especially because analyzing the higher levels is much harder when multiple part-of-speech possibilities must be considered for each word.
He was himself the regent, and his friends Edward May, Michael Mason, Thomas Hunt, Nicholas Fiske, John Spiedal (Spidall), and Walter Salter were professors in various areas.
The academy was established after the National Language (Priority) Bill was ratified by President Mohamed Nasheed which was passed by the Parliament.
Further develop the Kven language, including writing a dictionary and education material for the Kven language.
The Bhawan was exchanged by the Nagaland Government with the earlier one, which was known as LAL GHAR and taken by the Nagaland Government in the year 1978.
The purposes of the organisation are limited to Dutch language and Dutch-language literature, and are hence not as wide as those of the Community of Portuguese Language Countries, La Francophonie or the Commonwealth of Nations.
The PropBank project has played a role in recent research in natural language processing, and has been used in semantic role labelling.
Research has shown the variable extent to which washback influences different individuals in different ways, and the difficulty of targeting washback.
With a view to meet this objective, the Tribal Research and Cultural Foundation has undertaken documentation of tribal culture and artifacts.
History The Spoken English Corpus (SEC) project was supported jointly in 1984-5 by the Humanities Research Fund at Lancaster University and by IBM (UK) Ltd, and subsequently by IBM UK Ltd.
The Institute for the Languages of Finland, better known as Kotus, is a governmental linguistic research institute of Finland geared to studies of Finnish, Swedish (cf.
During 2020, the Centre researched Scots exonyms for European settlements and countries and compiled a map based on this information the following year.
140–142, ISBN 0-521-63751-1, OCLC 40305532 External links Language Council of Sweden (in Swedish) Recent books published by the council
The majority of Hall's work focuses on language in India and the United States, with special attention to organizations of gender and sexuality.
The aim of the project is according to pages is "producing a web corpus of Buddhist texts for using in multilingual lexicography.
The idea of an all-Nordic cooperation was thwarted by the fact that all Nordic countries with the exception of Sweden were embroiled in the Second World War.
In 2012, the psycholinguistics sector was transformed into the department of psycholinguistics comprising the general psycholinguistics sector and the ethnopsycholinguistics sector.
History The establishment of the Lembaga Bahasa (Language Board) began with the approval of an usul (motion) during a Legislative Council meeting on 18 April 1960.
Devine and Stephens note for example that Livy is fond of putting the object after the verb at the end of the clause (e.g.
The questionnaire asks for various types of information, including plants, minerals, stones, birds, quadrupeds, and the weather.
The Traité du signe visuel (1992) (which Göran Sonesson said was to visual communication what Saussure's Cours de linguistique générale was to linguistics) sought to elaborate a general grammar of the image, independently of the type of corpus being considered.
Key words are calculated by carrying out a statistical test (e.g., loglinear or chi-squared) which compares the word frequencies in a text against their expected frequencies derived in a much larger corpus, which acts as a reference for general language use.
In the school year of 1940–1941, the teaching of the national language (wikang pambansa), with its new standardized orthography, was set by law in the fourth year of all high schools in both public and private schools throughout the country.
The corpus is accompanied by an online teaching and learning toolkit – Y Tiwtiadur – which draws directly on the data from the corpus to provide resources for Welsh language learning at all ages and levels.
The Class of Letters (Portuguese: Classe de Letras) of the Lisbon Academy of Sciences holds an official consultative role on the Portuguese language in Portugal.
A proposal was made to the European Union under the Copernicus initiative in 1994, with the objective of creating a corpus of spoken Bulgarian, Estonian, Hungarian, Polish and Romanian, and Grant #1304 was awarded for this.
History In July 1947, the Department of International Relations was established at the University of Dhaka.
Very active societies include the Genealogical Society, the Archaeological Society, and the Biological Society.
Karnataka Konkani Sahitya Academy is formed in the Indian state of Karnataka to promote Konkani language and literature.
Authorship studies now usually use a wide range of measures to look for patterns rather than relying upon single measurements.
History Yerevan State University, which temporarily operated from Alexandropol starting in 1919, served as the Republic's initial hub for cultural, educational, and scientific activities.
It was classified into two sections: a New Linguistic Survey of India and a Survey of Minor and Endangered Languages.
It is not a goal of CSL to search for entities of human language that distinguish it from other forms of animal communication.
Examples Cussel an Tavas Kernuak (the Cornish Language Council) European Language Council Norwegian Language Council Polish Language Council Swedish Language Council See also Académie française List of language regulators == References ==
Language Inspectorate (Estonian: Keeleinspektsioon) is a governmental body under the Ministry of Education of Estonia.
On May 25, 2017, Andrej Kibrik was elected the director of the Institute of Linguistics by the general meeting of the researchers.
A variety of textbooks, graded readers, and Yiddish materials available through the League for Yiddish's website.
The Languages of Arunachal Pradesh Part One: Hindi Edited by Lisa Lomdak Part Two: English Edited by Lisa Lomdak 5.
The inspectorate was founded in 1990 as the State Language Board with the mandate to facilitate the republic's expectation that people offering services to the public should speak Estonian, as stated by the Commissioner for Human Rights.
It was established in 2005 and replaced the Norwegian Language Council (Norsk språkråd, Urban East Norwegian: [ˈnɔʂk ˈsprôːkrǒːd]) which existed from 1974 to 2005.
Responding to issues related to language for institutions and private bodies, and collaborating with institutions and media that have a significant impact on language, such as government administration, schools, newspapers, radio and television.
The largest phoneme inventories are found among African languages, while the smallest inventories are found in South America and Oceania, some of the last regions of the globe to be settled.
It includes language from the UK, the United States, Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, the Caribbean, Canada, India, Singapore, and South Africa.
References External links Japan-Netherlands Institute Publications at the Wayback Machine Repository of The Japan-Netherlands Institute at the Leiden University Office Tokyo
The Tabular Parser: A Parsing Program for Phrase-Structure and Dependency, RM-4933-PR, Santa Monica, The RAND Corporation, July 1966.
The Language Council of Sweden (Swedish: Språkrådet) is the primary regulatory body for the advancement and cultivation of the Swedish language.
An Coimisinéir Teanga ('The Language Commissioner') is an office created by the Official Languages Act 2003 in Ireland to promote and safeguard the respective language rights of Irish and English speakers in Ireland.
Key activities The institution has published a wide range of general, scientific and technical dictionaries and an Urdu Thesaurus.
The project was funded by the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders and the Office of Research at Ohio State University.
Four levels of certificate courses are offered for each language, Bengali being the only language exclusively reserved for foreign international students.
The commission focuses mainly on the revision and publication of the Afrikaanse Woordelys en Spelreëls (AWS; "Afrikaans Word List and Spelling Rules"), a standard guide to the spelling and related writing conventions of Afrikaans.
A contact call origin for human language is consistent with animal studies, as like human language, contact call discrimination in monkeys is lateralised to the left hemisphere.
It was born in 2009, evolving from the association's previous Área Editorial da AGAL (AGAL's Editorial Area), thus gaining greater entity and autonomy.
Duke of York derivations are described to be similar to the little nursery rhyme that accompanies its name: a certain process turns A into B, and then another process turns B back into A, seemingly achieving nothing.
In addition to providing financial support, Lhuyd's subscribers had also been encouraged to contribute research material.
O vozmožnom metode i instrumentax semantičeskogo sinteza (On a possible method and instruments for semantic synthesis).
The Institute of the Mirandese Language (Mirandese: Anstituto de la Lhéngua Mirandesa) is the institution responsible for the representation, research, promotion, codification and distribution of the Mirandese language.
Covering both British and American varieties of English in all of these registers but the last one, the descriptions in LGSWE are based on a language corpus exceeding 40 million words and as such this grammar has been widely praised as a new milestone in corpus-based grammatical studies.
Each line consists of a list of comma-separated values, with the first term being the root word, and all following words being related terms.
The rapid loss of Old English verbal prefixes is attributed to the fact that Old Norse had already lost most of the Germanic prefixes, and so lacked cognates for English prefixed verbs.
The Japan-Netherlands Institute was dissolved in 2013, and many of its activities have since been continued by the Leiden University Office Tokyo.
Using the position of the prosodic boundaries, adults were able to determine which category the ambiguous word [mɔʀ] belonged to, since the word is assigned to a different phonological phrase, depending on its syntactic category and semantic meaning in the sentence.
The Institute has a non-binding recommendation that Norway, Denmark, and Iceland also use the Swedish names for Finnish locations, for instance Helsingfors for Helsinki, and which is accepted by the Language Council of Norway.
Denham, also says that the book explains the work of significant structuralist critics, making it a useful introductory work.
If we look back at /teo/, where Palatalization precedes Deletion, /t/ precedes /e/, therefore palatalizes into /tʃ/.
The Global Language Monitor (GLM) is a company based in Austin, Texas, that analyzes trends in the English language.
The Languages of Gujarat, Diu, Daman and Dadra & Nagar Haveli Part One: Hindi Edited by Kanji Patel Part Two: English Edited by Kanji Patel Part Three: Gujarati Edited by Kanji Patel Images of the cover pages References External links https://www.bhasharesearch.org/plsi
Texts are provided with metamarkup (by date of creation of the text, sex, place and year of birth of the author, Internet genre, etc.); all texts are provided with automatic morphological tagging and lemmatization.
History Of all the Slavic maticas, Matica Srpska was the first to be established in the Habsburg Empire at the time of a Serb national and cultural awakening.
The Commission has prepared several draft legal acts and has participated in the formation of the normative basis for the Official Language Law.
It has 21 full members, 19 foreign members and 15 honorary members, and its current (as of 2017) president is Xosé Antón González Riaño.
Loss of grammatical gender in English appears to have occurred first in the north and east, the regions of greatest Scandinavian settlement.
Analysis of these restrictions can lead to discoveries about the structure and development of a language.
In the 1920s, language began to be seen as a social phenomenon, and Russian and Soviet linguists tried to give a sociological explanation to features of language.
It has previously gone by a number of names, including the Academy of the Korean Language (국어연구소) when it was first founded as a non-government organization in 1984, and the National Academy of the Korean Language (국립국어연구원) when it became a government agency in 1991.
Research bulletin One of the activities of the TSKK is the publication of a research bulletin called Sod.
Aims The linguistic and literary study of Valencian, inside the general frame of the Catalan language and literature.
The Academy has been given some awards and distinctions, and it has the support of notable cultural and political personalities, along with the patronage of the Spanish Monarchy.
in linguistics in 1995 from the University of California at Berkeley, writing her dissertation under the supervision of Robin Lakoff, and has held academic positions at Stanford, Yale, and Rutgers Universities.
The Fryske Akademy (West Frisian pronunciation: [ˈfriskə akəˈdeːmi]; Frisian for Frisian Academy), founded in 1938, is the scientific centre for research and education concerning Friesland and its people, language and culture, this in its broadest sense.
The Himalayan Languages Project was officially commissioned by the government of Bhutan to devise a standard romanization of Dzongkha.
A pilot project to create a small corpus of spoken Bulgarian was carried out jointly by the Universities of Sofia (Bulgaria) and Reading (U.K.).
Троцкий (Leon Trotsky): Формальная школа поэзии и марксизм (глава из книги «Литература и революция», 1923) (in Russian: Russian)
Jha has been described as "the most noteworthy contribution to the field of Maithili linguistics." == References ==
The Office québécois de la langue française (pronounced [ɔfis kebekwa də la lɑ̃ɡ fʁɑ̃sɛːz], OQLF; lit.
History It was decided in a draft on 7 August 1912, a month after a July 10 conference led by Cai Yuanpei, that a set of phonetic symbols were to be used for education purposes.
Mildura The Mildura Campus was established in 1996, co-located with the main campus of the Sunraysia Institute of TAFE.
The academy is also the home of Fryske Rie foar Heraldyk, a heraldic advisory board for the Frisian region.
The new version of Lingua Libre is based on MediaWiki, uses Wikibase and OAuth to better integrate into the Wikimedia environment.
It was dissolved under political pressure as "formalism" came to be a political term of opprobrium in the Soviet state.
The Akademie was founded in Bloemfontein in 1909, and its branch, the Spellingskommissie ("Spelling Commission"), in 1914.
There was an Office Building at the Heart of the Kohima Town, which was known as "LAL GHAR" due to painting with Red color.
The transcription system is explained by Williams, and an experiment was conducted by Brian Pickering to assess the degree of agreement between the two transcribers on a section of the Corpus containing around 1000 tone-units which was transcribed by both transcribers.
The child's understanding of the tints or shade of a hue increases when presented by older individuals around them.
The Slavic Linguistic Atlas The Slavic Linguistic Atlas (Russian Общеславянский лингвистический атлас) represents ongoing work, beginning in 1958, with several periodic progress reports being issued over the following decades.
The corpus can be browsed, for example by the author's name or date of the text, and all texts can be downloaded in plain text format.
Notable members Among the most notable current members of the council are: Jerzy Bartmiński Andrzej Blikle Jerzy Bralczyk Andrzej Markowski Jan Miodek References External links Official webpage
The project is a venture by the Department of English Language and STELLA project at the University of Glasgow.
The Russian Academy or Imperial Russian Academy (Russian: Академия Российская, Императорская Российская академия) was established in St.
Heinrich Beck: Die germanischen Sprachen der Völkerwanderungszeit, in: Werner Besch / Anne Betten / Oskar Reichmann / Stefan Sonderegger (ed.), Sprachgeschichte.
The School's main objective was to popularise contemporary achievements in its many academic fields.
Its successor, the Academy of the Hebrew Language, has continued this mission of creating new Hebrew words to keep up modern usage.
Baugh's contributions to forensic linguistics have built upon his formulation of linguistic profiling, and his work has been used in legal cases involving hostile work environments, unequal access to housing, and murder.
The audio and text files, together with time-aligned phonetic labels, are stored in a format for use with speech analysis software (Xwaves and Wavesurfer).
The Bijankhan corpus (Persian: پیکرهٔ بی‌جن‌خان) is a tagged corpus that is suitable for natural language processing (NLP) research on the Persian language.
The Institute for the Croatian Language (Croatian: Institut za hrvatski jezik, IHJ), formerly known as the Institute for the Croatian Language and Linguistics until 2023, is a state-run linguistics institute in Croatia whose purpose is to "preserve and foster" the Croatian language.
Between 7 and 10 months the infant starts putting words together, for example "mama" and "dada", but these words lack meaning and significance.
It works to promote tribal languages like Gojri, preserve folklore and oral traditions, and support academic and field-based research on tribal history, lifestyle, and socio-economic conditions.
Since then the number of members has increased and includes prominent figures in the Manx speaking community such as Bob Carswell and Phil Gawne.
All the texts have tags bearing metatextual information - the author, his/her birth date, creation date, text size, text genres (general fiction, detective story, newspaper article etc.); all these categories are browsable and searchable separately.
In collaboration with other organizations it also published a cultural magazine entitled Hiidenkivi until 2012.
Adamyan References External links Official website International Scientific-Educational Center of National Academy of Sciences of Armenia
This includes promoting opportunities to use Welsh and encourage best practice in the use of Welsh by people dealing with other persons, or providing services to other persons.
On June 19, 2012, Vladimir Alpatov became the director of the Institute of Linguistics, as elected by general meeting of all the researchers of the institute.
Petersburg linguistic group OPOJAZ; between them, these two groups (together with the later Prague linguistic circle) were responsible for the development of Russian formalist literary semiotics and linguistics.
The governing body for Classical Tamil Institute (TLPB) was also changed as Aimperumkuzhu (literally "5-membered great team") and Enperayam (literally "8-membered great committee") under two vice-chairmen, V.
The influence and position of British Latin declined when the Roman economy and administrative structures collapsed in the early 5th century.
A community of practice is a group of people who, through interaction and shared context, define a set of practices based upon language style, values, belief systems, dynamics of power, and performance.
It may provide information about the context or allow the user to search by positional attributes, such as lemma, tag, etc.
The principal researchers were Gerry Knowles and Tamas Varadi (Lancaster) and Peter Roach and Simon Arnfield (Leeds).
The Welsh Language Commissioner (Welsh: Comisiynydd y Gymraeg) is a Welsh Government officer, overseeing an independent advisory body of the same name.
In 1958, on the 1100th anniversary of the birth of the founder of Persian-Tajik literature Abuabdullo Rudaki, the institute was named in his honour.
Internationalization the adoption of a non-indigenous language as a means of wider communication, as an official language or in a particular domain, such as the use of English in India, Singapore, the Philippines, Papua New Guinea, and South Africa.
There have been unsuccessful attempts to enshrine the position of the Czech language and its minders in legislation, akin to the Language law of Slovakia.
It coordinates with the General Commission of Terminology and Neologisms the development of terminology lists by the specialized committees of terminology and the French Academy.
Old Saxon again differs, having ē, but forms with reflexes similar to those in Frisian and Old English are also found in some early Old Saxon texts, namely ā and ǣ.
The Saint-Germain-des-Prés Library is university library at Université Paris-Cité, located in rue des Saints-Pères, in the Latin Quarter of Paris.
Since its inception, it has had 5 directors: Professor Wálé Adébánwí (2008-2011) Dr Ìyábọ̀ Basir (2011-2012) Dr.
1 – 7 were issued in 1989 Confrontational research of the Slavic languages vocabulary Czech-Slovak Dictionary, 2nd ed.
The board aims to strengthen and further develop the Faroese language and advise the Faroese government on language issues.
The Runic Inscriptions (being written from the 2nd century) may mean that the north and West broke up in the 2nd and 3rd centuries.
See also A Comprehensive Grammar of the English Language The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language Notes References D.
This interministerial council had resulted in a series of measures, including the allocation of additional budget posts, to strengthen the teaching of Tamazight in the Algerian education system, and to expand training and research in Tamazight at the level of Algerian universities.
Estimating the total number of attested ancient languages may be as difficult as estimating their corpus size.
Different regulations and circulars has been issued since, most important the orthography reform of 1948.
Culture can be considered as a series of texts, a supercode of textuality, or a memory storage pattern utilizing texts.
General Session and Parasession on Theoretical Issues in Language Reconstruction: Proceedings of the Fifteenth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, 1988-1989.
General Session and Parasession on the Legacy of Grice: Proceedings of the Sixteenth Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, 1989-1990.
The linguistic circle was founded in the Café Derby in Prague, which is also where meetings took place during its first years.
Publications The Irish-language publisher An Gúm, established by the Irish Free State, became part of Foras na Gaeilge in 1999.
(2019): Acceptability Ratings in Linguistics: A Practical Guide to Grammaticality Judgments, Data Collection, and Statistical Analysis.
This functionality is also available as a separate service called OneClick Terms with a dedicated interface.
The digital version of the Oxford English Corpus is formatted in XML and usually analysed with Sketch Engine software.
Washback effect in testing is typically seen as either negative, or positive (sometimes referred to as washforward).
This ended in 1938 when the Royal Flemish Academy of Belgium for Science and the Arts and the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium were set up.
ANLA is part of the Alaska & Polar Regions Special Collections and Archives at the University of Alaska Fairbanks Rasmuson Library.
Structuralism in Literature: An Introduction is a nonfiction book by literary critic and theorist Robert Scholes.
Charles Albert Ferguson (July 6, 1921 – September 2, 1998) was an American linguist who taught at Stanford University.
The corpus includes rich text materials from the blogosphere, social networks, major news sources and literary magazines.
From 1987 to 1999 she was a professor in the Department of Linguistics at Northwestern University, serving as the Department chair from 1996-1999.
The university is also home to the Centre for Dialogue, an interdisciplinary research institution which delves into certain intercultural and inter-religious conflicts, both in the domestic setting and in international relations.
Notable semioticians working in the Copenhagen–Tartu school are: Kalevi Kull, Jesper Hoffmeyer, Claus Emmeche, Frederik Stjernfelt, Søren Brier, Peeter Torop, Timo Maran, Mihhail Lotman.
Seminars, lectures, and live and/or online cultural events are featured on the League for Yiddish's YouTube channel.
Other features include the ability to search for collocations, frequency statistics as well as metadata information about the processed text.
At Stanford, he was a co-founder of the Center for the Study of Language and Information and directed it from 1986 to 1987 and 2006 to 2007.
Only scientific publications are included, and applied linguistic publications are listed only if they have theoretical implications.
Occasionally also the name 'Tartu–Bloomington–Copenhagen school' has been used, as having succeeded the earlier Tartu–Moscow school.
The concepts elaborated in the group's first major publication (A General Rhetoric 1970) contributed to the revival of rhetorics at the time, by providing an explanatory model of rhetorical figures, which drew on contemporary concepts of linguistic structure.
She is best known as one of the architects (with Ronald Kaplan) of the theoretical framework of lexical functional grammar.
The text recognises the unity of the Catalan-Valencian language and the right of using both denominations for the same language, and asks political organisations to avoid the politicization of linguistics.
It was run by the registrar in-charge and the secretary of the sports, youth and cultural activities department; ex-offcio.
Goals of the project The project has the status of an educational and scientific one, and many tasks of computational linguistics are solved by independent researchers and research groups with the materials obtained by GICR.
It carries out state supervision with the primary task of ensuring that the Language Act and other legal acts regulating language use are observed.
Corpus linguistics and its statistical analyses can reveal (regularity of) patterns of co-occurrences within a language and enable the working out of typical collocations for its lexical items.
communication related functions (such as text reception, text production, text revision, text editing, and translation – which are all text-dependent) and knowledge related or cognitive functions (such as gaining knowledge in general or about a specific topic unrelated to a specific text).
The difference between acceptability and grammaticality is linked to the distinction between performance and competence in generative grammar.
Its mission is to lead, at the interdepartmental level, the language policy of France, concerning both the French and regional languages.
2000 Territorial differentiation of Slovak dialects within the Slovak territory as well as Slavic countries and the Carpathian area Atlas of the Slovak Language, 4 vol., 1968 – 1984 Slavic Linguistic Atlas, up to now Carpathian Dialectological Atlas, 8 vol, introductory (unnumbered) vol.
A collection of other dictionaries and grammars have also been published, all based exclusively on the evidence from the Bank of English.
Saol (meaning 'life'), also known as Saol na Gaeilge, was a free Irish-language monthly newspaper that was funded by Foras na Gaeilge.
A possible disadvantage of this treatment is that the corpus can only be searched using specially written scripts.
In 2006, he was honored with a festschrift titled Intelligent linguistic architectures: variations on themes by Ronald M.
Morphological representation Morphological representations (MorphR) in meaning–text theory are implemented as strings of morphemes arranged in a fixed linear order reflecting the ordering of elements in the actual utterance.
110-word list The Global Lexicostatistical Database includes basic word lists of 110 items each for many of the world's languages.
Consequently, a usage-based model accounts for these rule-governed language behaviours by providing a representational scheme that is entirely instance-based, and able to recognize and uniquely represent each familiar pattern, which occurs with varying strengths at different instances.
A corpus manager usually represents a complex tool that allows one to perform searches for language forms or sequences.
Jae Jung Song argues that the frequency explanation is circular—certain patterns are often used by people because they are frequent—and that the explanation of frequency issues must be found outside themselves.
The Association of Academies of the Spanish Language (Spanish: Asociación de Academias de la Lengua Española; ASALE) is an entity whose end is to work for the unity, integrity, and growth of the Spanish language.
The National Council for the Maltese Language is a member of the EFNIL (European Federation of National Institutions for Language) in the EU.
On 12 December 1928, the commission was renamed to the Preparatory Committee for the Unification of the National Language, headed by Woo Tsin-hang and had 31 members.
Then, the corpus is annotated automatically on several levels: morphosyntantic, named entities recognition (e.g.
It was founded in Ibadan, Oyo State, Nigeria in October 2007 following a retreat of young Yoruba professionals.
The Krste Misirkov Institute for the Macedonian Language (Macedonian: Институт за македонски јазик „Крсте Мисирков“, Institut za makedonski jazik „Krste Misirkov“) is the regulatory body of the Macedonian language and is a part of Ss.
He developed (with Martin Kay) the mathematical, linguistic, and computational concepts that underlie the use of finite-state phonological and morphological descriptions.
The Academy of Sciences of Albania (Albanian: Akademia e Shkencave e Shqipërisë), founded in 1972, is the most important scientific institution in Albania.
To assess the proposal, the Academy set up a Class III Commission, whose efforts culminated in the founding of the oldest academy department – the Office of the Dictionary of the Czech Language – in 1911.
"Gaul, considered as a whole, is divided into three parts." It is also possible for the subject to follow the copula: plēna erant omnia timōris et lūctūs.
The corpus is non-free in that it is not free for commercial use, although these restrictions vary by country.
Many of the project's members belong to the Moscow School of Comparative Linguistics, including Georgiy Starostin and Ilia Peiros.
from MIT in 1985, his dissertation being about suprasegmental phenomena in the phonology of Japanese.
The whole corpus has a searchable tagging concerning lexical semantics (LS), including morphosemantic POS subclasses (proper noun, reflexive pronoun etc.), LS characteristics proper (thematic class, causativity, evaluation), derivation (diminutive, adverb formed from adjective etc.).
Revised Ōno's lexical law by Mizutani Let the rates of noun usage in the lexicon of 3 arbitrary literary works A, B, and C be X 0 , x , X 1 {\displaystyle X_{0},x,X_{1}} , respectively.
Unlike on-line searchable corpora, which due to copyright restrictions allow access only to individual sentences, the entire ANC is available to enable research involving, for example, development of statistical language models and full-text linguistic annotation.
Other languages have such limited corpora that some important words—e.g., some pronouns—are lacking in the corpora.
State Language Centre was assigned additional functions in 2009 after its merger with Translation and Terminology Centre.
the Father Tongue hypothesis: As a consequence, the female-specific diversity of our genome would fit less well with geography and linguistics than would our male-specific component.
However, the nature of individual change is generally found to be not the rejection of new variants by older speakers, as associated with the age-grading model, but the late adoption of new variants by adults who learned older variants as children.
Lee (2022) 91 A Grammar of Gurindji – Felicity Meakins, Patrick McConvell (2021) 92 A Grammar of Ngardi – Thomas Ennever (2021) 96 A Grammar of Teotitlán del Valle Zapotec – Ambrocio Gutiérrez, Hiroto Uchihara (2026) 97 A Grammar of Pangkhua – Zahid Akter (2024) 99 A Grammar of Hmong.
Considering an underlying text corpus, a word sketch quintuple is a quintuple consisting of headword, grammatical relation, collocation, position of headword in the corpus, position of collocation in the corpus (e.g.
Likewise, some entirely Old English names explicitly point to Roman structures, usually using Latin loan-words or to the presence of Brittonic-speakers.
Ferguson is best known for his seminal article on diglossia, published in 1959 and (reprinted since then in other publications) and frequently cited by others, listed by Google Scholar as having been cited over 9,000 times.
Gul Mohammed Noorzai, a historian, writer, and linguist as a result of the merging of older academic associations.
This text will follow the usual course at the level of the Government and the Council of Ministers before reaching the Algerian Parliament in the first half of 2018.
The corpus is created either by adding text files from the local drive (in any language and format), or by indicating websites from which texts are to be downloaded.
At first the Institute functioned as a component part of the Faculty of Philosophy, but soon it turned into a separate scholarly institution with independent financing.
Structure and the Whole: East, West and Non-Darwinian Biology in the Origins of Structural Linguistics.
It thus differs from a nonce word, which may never be recorded, may find currency and may be widely recorded, or may appear several times in the work which coins it, and so on.
Criticism The GKA has been accused of being biased against Konkani publications in the Roman script in the past.
Another debate concerns whether the term semantic/discourse prosody only relates to positive/negative meaning (narrow definition) or to more complex attitudinal/functional meaning.
Project Marayum is a language organization by the team of computer scientists and linguists from the University of the Philippines.
In 2005, the Language Service for state bodies was also established following a decision in the Storting.
Also years after having been tasked to translate the French Larousse, there was no Turkish translation of it.
Slovak Language (Slovak: Slovenská reč), a scientific journal devoted to the research of the Slovak language.
The main issues identified were language of service (34%), language of websites (11%) and language of public display (17%).
At the same time, Soviet linguists sought to develop a "Marxist" linguistics, as opposed to the early theories that were viewed as bourgeois.
References External links Official website Dictionary of the Lithuanian Language Archived 11 August 2017 at the Wayback Machine Creating the Electronic Version of the Dictionary of the Lithuanian Language Eighth United Nations Conference on the Standardization of Geographical Names
However, English is a VO language, which means that the morphological word 'loves' associated with the V-v-T chain is spelled in v, deriving the correct word order.
The project recruits graduate students to collect field data on little-known languages for their Ph.D.
The area Research Coordination and Research Infrastructure deals with tasks and projects related to the internal and external communication of information and networking.
Claimed characteristics Speculation on the "characteristics" of Proto-World is limited to linguistic typology, i.e.
The International Auxiliary Language Association ceased to exist in 1954, and according to the secretary of Union Mundial de Interlingua "Interlingua doesn't need its Academy".
words, suffixes), arguing that they can survive language change through frequent usage or by participating in usage-based generalizations if their syntactic, semantic or pragmatic features overlap with other similar constructions.
It was created by the queen Maria I of Portugal, on 24 December 1779, during the Age of Enlightenment.
In probability theory and statistics, the Zipf–Mandelbrot law is a discrete probability distribution.
It is a library reserved for scientific research, mainly for grad students, scholars, social and human scientists from all universities and scientific centers.
According to their school of thought, the main function of language is communication, and it is this fact that guides the formulation of grammatical hypotheses and constrains the form these hypotheses can take.
The Language Inspectorate was established to oversee the implementation of the Language Act, with subsequent revisions to the Act occurring in 1995 and 2011.
Until that year, there were certain differences between those who wanted to use a more distinctly Galician norm and those who wanted total convergence with the Orthographic Agreement.
Tallinn: Tallinn University Press, 679–688.] A distinctive feature of TMS was the combination of structuralist and semiotic approaches to language, literature and culture.
Its historical primary campus consists of several buildings spread over Leiden, while a second campus located in The Hague houses a liberal arts college (Leiden University College The Hague) and several of its faculties.
A language council, also known as a language regulator or a language academy, is an organisation that performs language planning or regulation.
However, the history of modern Assam, modern Assamese language and literature and culture found their starting points in the early part of the 19th century.
With rates Y 0 , y , Y 1 {\displaystyle Y_{0},y,Y_{1}} for usage of another word class of the same 3 literatures, respectively, then 3 points, ( X 0 , Y 0 ) , ( x , y ) , ( X 1 , Y 1 ) {\displaystyle (X_{0},Y_{0}),(x,y),(X_{1},Y_{1})} will approximately be located on a line.
In November 2017, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau nominated Raymond Théberge, the President and Vice-Chancellor of Université de Moncton, as the commissioner replacing Fraser.
Bolshakov) Example of collocations for the word "Surgery" at wordassociations.net Example of collocations for the word "study" at collocations.org
The study confirmed that speaking time had the highest correlation with leadership emergence, surpassing other factors such as intelligence, agreeableness, and game proficiency.
Jacques Lautman, head of CNRS' Human and Society sciences department, decided to change its name in «Bibliothèque de sociologie du CNRS» (CNRS Sociology Library) in 1986.
Due to the efforts of the Sabha, notably Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya, from 1900, the use of Nagari was allowed, and it became mandatory for government employees to know both Hindi and Urdu.
'Crystal clear', 'middle management', 'nuclear family', and 'cosmetic surgery' are examples of collocated pairs of words.
The following shared innovations, which must have taken place in Proto-Northwest Germanic, can be noted: Lowering of stressed *ē to *ā.
Corpus languages are studied using the methods of corpus linguistics, but corpus linguistics can also be used (and is commonly used) for the study of the writings and other records of living languages.
Trees at this level represent dependency relations between lexemes (or between lexemes and a limited inventory of abstract entities such as lexical functions).
An on-line searchable database of the LSI is available, providing an excerpt for each word as it appeared in Grierson's original publication.
There is also a department of Urdu Informatics (اردو اطلاعیات) to carry out research in developing the suitable hardware and software for the use of language in electronic media.
Kharkiv School was an interdisciplinary centre with academics working on linguistic theory, publishing teaching materials, collecting Ukrainian folklore, writing their own poems and plays, as well as advocating for the importance of Ukrainian language and culture.
The Academy has more than 300 research fellows, divided into three main groups: social science, natural sciences, and Islamic studies.
As the boundaries are variable there is no strict definition of how a Text can be made of subject matter, and instead it emphasizes the cultural signification seen in comparing the boundaries of the text to its use in society.
Their role as the language regulator for Maltese has been criticised by some Maltese academics as overly prescriptivist, especially for the Maltese diaspora.
This law is named after the American linguist George Kingsley Zipf, and is still an important concept in quantitative linguistics.
The Y-chromosomal lineage L could potentially reflect an earlier patrilingual dispersal of the proposed Elamo-Dravidian family emanating from a region in modern-day Iran.
List of elicitation techniques Interviews Existing System Project Scope Brain Storming Focus Groups Exploratory Prototypes User Task Analysis Observation Surveys Questionnaire Story Board References Elisitasi: Proses dan Metode untuk Merancang Sistem Baru yang Efektif
In 2024, Baugh joined the faculty of Rice University as the Barbara Jordan Distinguished Professor of Linguistics.
The dictionary was first published in 1991 and it is currently in its second edition, with entries over 15,000.
One case that gained international attention in 2013 was dubbed "Pastagate", in which the OQLF cited an Italian restaurant for using the word "Pasta" on its menu instead of the French word "pâtes".
On January 18, 2022, the NIKL announced several new initiatives: It would create a Korean language proficiency diagnosis system that leveraged assistance from artificial intelligence.
2, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press Bickerton, Derek (1991), "On the Supposed 'Gradualness' of Creole Development", Journal of Pidgin and Creole Languages, 6: 25–58, doi:10.1075/jpcl.6.1.03bic Hall, Robert (1966).
Latin Deproeliantis, a participle of the word deproelior, which means "to fight fiercely" or "to struggle violently", appears only in line 11 of Horace's Ode 1.9.
It is composed by the University of Valencia, the University of Alicante and the University Jaume I, from Castellón de la Plana, i.e., the three Valencian universities with superior philology studies.
The Oxford English Corpus (OEC) is a text corpus of 21st-century English, used by the makers of the Oxford English Dictionary and by Oxford University Press' language research programme.
The project distinguishes about 6,000 languages currently spoken around the world, and aims to provide a detailed classification similar to the accepted classification of biological species.
Debates There are debates about whether the regular co-occurrence of a particular word with positive/negative words results in that word acquiring a positive or negative connotation.
Their output from these endeavors has included dictionaries, monographs, computer collections and databases, as well as a large historical Russian music library.
Criticism Nativism is sometimes perceived as being too vague to be falsifiable, as there is no fixed definition of when an ability is supposed to be judged "innate".
Functions The CICT is engaged in the task of developing Tamil through various programmes of its own.
This simple rank-vs.-frequency relationship was noted for an extraordinary variety of phenomena by George Kingsley Zipf (for example, see his The Psychobiology of Language), and is known as Zipf's law.
The commissioner's role The commissioner may do anything they consider appropriate to: Promote the use of Welsh Facilitate the use of Welsh Work towards ensuring that Welsh is treated no less favourably than English.
The Academia de la Llingua Asturiana or Academy of the Asturian Language (ALLA) is an Official Institution of the Government of the Principality of Asturias that promotes and regulates the Asturian language, a language of the Spanish autonomous community of Asturias.
Deep syntactic relations between lexemes at DSyntR are restricted to a universal inventory of a dozen or syntactic relations including seven ranked actantial (argument) relations, the modificative relation, and the coordinative relation.
This discrepancy in timescales undermines the idea that human vocal flexibility was initially driven by selection pressures for speech, thus not excluding that it was selected for e.g.
This stage must also ensure that any proposed more definite meaning is consistent with all other instances, but must also allow for the possibility of homonyms with different meanings and morphemes with more than one purpose.
It is composed of 42 members, in addition to having members who serve as academic advisors, as well as honorary members.
OPOJAZ (ОПОЯЗ) (Russian: Общество изучения Поэтического Языка, Obščestvo izučenija POètičeskogo JAZyka, "Society for the Study of Poetic Language") was a prominent group of linguists and literary critics in St.
Some Welsh names for places in England may have ancient etymologies independent of the English forms.
The need for national homogenization, enlightenment, as well as the publication of Serbian books, were the main reasons for the formation of such a Society.
Each document in the OE Corpus is accompanied by metadata including: title author (if known; many websites make this difficult to determine reliably) author gender (if known) language type (e.g.
Starting in 1997, The Icelandic Language Institute created a database on the internet, which contained 52 special glossaries compiled for use in specific areas of focus.
External links Official website Video: 50 years of Linguistics at MIT, Lecture 1, Lexicon-syntax interactions == References ==
The second class of the Institut was responsible for the French language, and corresponded to the former Académie Française.
History Created in 1989 under the name "General Delegation for the French language" (DGLF), it became in 2001 the "General Delegation for the French language and the languages of France" to take into account regional languages.
Thus, hybrid models offer a single explanation for both rule-based language behaviours as well as item-based language behaviours.
The following table contains these extra phonemes, but note that the extent to which some of these may exist due to encoding errors is not clear.
External links Official website Urdu Wikipedia Urdu COMPUTING Magazine Download editable and offline dictionaries: Urdu, English, roman Urdu, Persian, roman Hindi
Commissioners Lee Reynolds On 28 October 2025, Lee Reynolds was appointed the first Ulster-Scots Commissioner.
Except regular biennially seasons in 2000 and 2002 special session was held at Jorhat and Kalgachia.
Dhivehi Language Academy (Dhivehi: ދިވެހިބަހުގެ އެކެޑަމީ, romanized: Dhivehibahuge Ekedamee), is the national academy for promoting the Dhivehi language in the Maldives, established on 8 August 2011.
Schools and teachers were accountable for student test performance, and thus focused on the skills and outcomes that the tests measured.
The lexical hypothesis is a major basis for the study of the Big Five personality traits, the HEXACO model of personality structure and the 16PF Questionnaire and has been used to study the structure of personality traits in a number of cultural and linguistic settings.
The dataset, therefore, offers a snapshot of the Welsh language across a range of contexts of use, e.g.
In the formula, k {\displaystyle k} is the rank of the data, and q {\displaystyle q} and s {\displaystyle s} are parameters of the distribution.
The Icelandic Language Institute was a department within the Ministry of Education, Science, and Culture of Iceland, and its role was to officially answer questions regarding characteristics of the Icelandic Language, as well as to provide benchmarks and guidelines for educators of Icelandic.
The board must also be observant to find linguistic errors that are committed and then try to prevent the errors from becoming widespread.
Lhuyd's team also produced sketches and plans of antiquities and ancient monuments, including Boskednan stone circle and Chûn Castle.
The Institute of Modern Languages (IML) is an institute of the University of Dhaka in Bangladesh dedicated to teaching various modern languages including Bengali, English, French, German, Russian, Spanish, Italian, Arabic, Persian, Turkish, Mandarin Chinese, Japanese, Korean, and Hindi.
(Introduction.) Selected papers "Rules of Interpretation—An Approach to the Problem of Computation in the Semantics of Natural Language", in Proceedings of the Second International Congress of the International Federation for Information Processing, 1962.
The Academy has a library which houses a good collection of books and magazines in Tulu and Kannada.
References External links Gerbang Bahasa | Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka Brunei website Archived 4 July 2017 at the Wayback Machine (in Malay) Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka Brunei website (in Malay) Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports website (in Malay)
History Dhivehi Academy was established after the abolition of the Maldives National Centre for Linguistic and Historic Research, which was locally known as Dhivehi Bahaai Thaareekhah Khidhumaiy Kuraa Qaumee Marukaz.
Studies in Slavic and General Linguistics (SSGL) (ISSN 0169-0124) is an academic book series that was founded in 1980 by A.A.
Since George van Driem's move to the University of Bern, many members of the Himalayan Languages Project are now based out of Switzerland.
Like Saussure, CSL considers a language to be a kind of system “où tout se tient” (where everything depends on or influences everything else).
The commissioner's work is politically independent, and the position of a commissioner lasts seven years.
Language and adolescence Eckert's focus on language in adolescence and preadolescence began in the early eighties with Jocks and Burnouts, an ethnographic project set in suburban Detroit high schools.
Her research investigates the lexical semantics of verbs, particularly the representation of events and the kind of morphosyntactic devices that English and other languages use to express events and their participants.
The term universal grammar (or UG) is used for the purported innate biological properties of the human brain, whatever exactly they turn out to be, that are responsible for children's successful acquisition of a native language during the first few years of life.
A noisy parallel corpus contains bilingual sentences that are not perfectly aligned or have poor quality translations.
During the 1960s and 1970s, the school was centered at the Department of Theoretical and Applied Linguistics of the Faculty of Philology at Moscow State University.
The criteria for inclusion of text samples were: written by native speakers, different fields, genres and topics.
He is also an avid bicyclist, and has been active combating homelessness and developing low-income housing in the Palo Alto area.
The Scottish Corpus of Texts & Speech (SCOTS) is an ongoing project to build a corpus of modern-day (post-1940) written and spoken texts in Scottish English and varieties of Scots.
But it remained essentially inactive, and according to the few reports that have appeared about it in the central organ of Volapük Volapukabled lezenodik its activities were limited to the approval of the decisions of Schleyer.
As the country's primary state research body, the National Academy encompasses over 34 scientific institutions and related organizations, all coordinated through its governing Presidium.
Although its field activities have reportedly reduced in recent years, the Foundation continues to contribute through research, documentation, and intellectual engagement.
NTM has also been organizing seminars on various aspects of translation with special reference to regional languages in different parts of the country.
Topogal Topogal is a software tool to check the spelling of place names in Galicia according to the international orthography of Galician.
The Language Service has two equal tasks: to promote plain language within the government and ensure more even distribution between Nynorsk and Bokmål in state documents.
Although SSGL is primarily intended to be a means of publication for linguists from the Low Countries, the editors are pleased to accept contributions by linguists from abroad.
Camilo José Cela, Marquis of Iria Flavia, 1957–2002, novelist Carlos Castilla del Pino, 2004–2009, neurologist, psychiatrist, essayist Pedro Álvarez de Miranda, since 2011 R seat Juan Curiel, 1714–1775.
According to Epstein, every word in use started out as a protologism, subsequently became a neologism, and then gradually grew to be part of the language.
Despite a large student backlash, La Trobe took advantage of the reforms, increasing fees by 25% in 2005.
In a case where a government revises a corpus, new dictionaries and educational materials will need to be revised in schools in order to maintain effective language acquisition.
ANLA is a member of the Open Language Archives Community and the Digital Endangered Languages and Musics Archives Network.
It was shown that three-day olds are able to discriminate bisyllabic stimuli with the same segments based on whether they were extracted from within a word or across a word boundary.
The text to be translated appears in the upper window and the translation will be composed in the bottom one." It is the form of the translator's amanuensis which is not a real device and never will.
It is possible to define a user's subcorpus to search lemmata/POS-grammeme/semantic tags combinations only within this subset.
Denham, says that Scholes aims to introduce the European literary theory of structuralism to English readers and to develop the principles of this theory.
A word whose developmental stage is between that of a protologism (freshly coined) and a neologism (a new word) is a prelogism.
research work into dictionary theory in general and it has built a solid, international reputation in that field.
It is supported by private funding from individuals and other nonprofits, including the Afẹ́nifẹ́re Renewal Group.
These separate research organizations were consolidated in 1935 to form the Armenian division of the Soviet Academy of Sciences, with Franz Julievich Levinson-Lessing serving as its first director.
Summary The Columbia School of Linguistics traces its origins through André Martinet and others back to Ferdinand de Saussure, the founder of modern linguistics.
A brief summary of its key activities over the years is as follows: Official script and language: Before the establishment of the institution, English and Urdu were the official languages and Kaithi was the most popular script.
It took its original name again on November 11, 2005, and again changed its name to its current form in October 2015.
Few dispute that Australopithecus probably lacked vocal communication significantly more sophisticated than that of great apes in general, but scholarly opinions vary as to the developments since the appearance of Homo some 2.5 million years ago.
It is the foremost authority on Finnish language planning and its recommendations are considered to define the standard Finnish which is used in official communication.
During the last 400 years, this was systematized in descriptions usually written by people with knowledge about the language, some with and without official status.
Resource: Indicators on the Presence of Languages in Internet, Pimienta D., Proceedings of the 1st Annual Meeting of the ELRA/ISCA Special Interest Group on Under-Resourced Languages, 2022.
As a graduate student he investigated how explicit computational models of grammar, particularly Augmented Transition Networks, could be embedded in models of human language performance, and he wrote the grammar for the LUNAR system, the first large-scale ATN grammar of English.
Elizabethan proposals In the early 1570s Humphrey Gilbert published The erection of an achademy in London, concerned with the education of wards and the younger sons of gentlemen.
The online search is available via web-interface search Bonito 2 which is a part of NoSketch Engine, limited version of the software Sketch Engine.
The Parishad arranges annual conferences runs Maharashtra Sahitya Patrika a Marathi quarterly, provides a reference library, conducts qualifying examinations in Marathi language and literature and classes for non-Marathi speakers in Pune.
She specializes in variationist sociolinguistics and is the author of several scholarly works on language and gender.
It contains 458,000 documents (188 million tokens) that are collected from sources such as websites, news agencies, books, and magazines.
Leiden University partnered with Duke University School of Law starting in 2017 to run a joint summer program on global and transnational law from its Hague campus.
There are eight project leaders, each working in one of the areas of the country who are supported by academicians.
For example, Greek and Latin sources hand down an enormous amount of foreign-language glosses, the seriousness of which is not always certain.
Underhill and Gianninoto argue that this is part of the complex ways ideological worldviews interact with the language as an ongoing means of perceiving and understanding the world.
To initiate, assist or undertake publication in Konkani language of original and erudite papers, monographs, books, journal, as also of any other works in any other branch of knowledge.
The institute was established in March 1953 in order to standardise the Macedonian language and to organise creative potentials in the sphere of Macedonian studies.
The project manages national and cultural linguistic apprehension in the Philippines in order to maintain preservation and to prevent extinction.
Internal structure The IIFV has a Board of Directors, a General Council and a Consultant Council, together with technical and auxiliary staff, and scholars.
At the same time, the Association led campaigns to replace the Arabic and Persian loanwords in the Turkish language.
The Council for the Polish Language (Polish: Rada Języka Polskiego) is the official language regulating organ of Polish.
According to the publisher's page, the journal is peer-reviewed and listed in the Russian Citation Index, SCOPUS, and "has the highest category [INT1] rating of the European Reference Index for the Humanities (ERIH)." Proceedings of the Russian Academy of Sciences.
Established in 1994 by Government of Karnataka, it is an autonomous organisation functioning from its own building - Tulu Bhawana in Mangalore, Karnataka.
Because its activities were organized in this way, and because it had to depend on uncertain sources of funding, the School from the outset had the character of a temporary expedient...
Projects The Tower of Babel website is the main lexical database for the Moscow School of Comparative Linguistics.
More specifically, the claim is that the inflectional and other losses in English resulted from Old Norse speakers' incomplete acquisition of English.
In January 2015, President of Somalia Hassan Sheikh Mohamud announced that the Regional Somali Language Academy was slated to be finalized in conjunction with the governments of Djibouti and Ethiopia.
He was awarded honorary doctorates from Copenhagen University in 2013 and from the University of York in 2019.
Tools such as the Perseus Digital Library and the Digital Corpus of Sanskrit have made it easier for researchers to access and analyze these texts.
Overview On 26 June 2013, the governments of Djibouti, Somalia, Ethiopia, Kenya and Somaliland, launched the Intergovernmental Academy Of Somali Languagea ceremony in Djibouti City.
Van de Velde (2008) 47 A Grammar of Wandala – Zygmunt Frajzyngier (2012) 49 A Grammar of Teiwa – Marian Klamer (2010) 50 A Grammar of Madurese – William D.
It hosted exhibitions, managed the sculpture park (which includes a controversial upside-down statue of Governor La Trobe by sculptor Charles Robb) was managed by LUMA., and collaborated with significant state, national and international projects.
How language acquisition builds on cognitive development Clark's accomplishments and reputation in linguistics is shown in her ability relate language acquisition to cognition.
YIVO director Jonathan Brent established the Edward Blank YIVO Vilna Online Collections project in 2014.
The exact functions varies from organisation to organisation and may include the establishment or promotion of an official or national language or orthography, research and documentation.
Effects may be superficial, indirect, and unpredictable due to individual differences in the way that learning is mediated by teachers, textbook writers, and publishers.
The empiricist theory suggests, contra Chomsky, that there is enough information in the linguistic input children receive and therefore, there is no need to assume an innate language acquisition device exists (see above).
See also Philosophy of language Theory of language Course in General Linguistics by Ferdinand de Saussure References Other reviews Prince, Gerald (1975).
See also Hapax legomenon, a word occurring only once in a given context, such as in the works of a particular author Neologism, a relatively recent or isolated term, word, or phrase that may be in the process of entering common use, but that has not yet been fully accepted into mainstream language.
The character encoding appears to be MacRoman, and hyphenation is indicated by a bullet (⟨•⟩, character value 165 decimal, or A5 hexadecimal).
The National Language Promotion Department is now an attached department of Ministry of National Heritage & Integration.
The Academy of Sciences of the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic was then founded on 10 November 1943, on the basis of the Armenian Branch of the Soviet Academy of Sciences, which was established almost ten years earlier, in 1935.
Projects The projects of Nepal Bhasa Academy are:- Construction work of Nepal Bhasa schools Creating Nepal Bhasa books Providing scholarship to people Danyahira Sirpa, an award of fifty thousand rupees for outstanding contributions to the field of Newari literature or music.
Articles: definite article applied to specific and identified noun phrase, indefinite article applied to specific and newly asserted noun phrase, and zero for nonspecific noun phrase.
Apart from the autonomy that each university has, the IIFV will be the only organism that, on behalf of all the universities that are its members, will be able to advise and to rule over the philological matters that are inside its domain.
The Manx Language Strategy 2017-2021 aims to raise the profile of Culture Vannin's translation service, which incorporates the expertise of Coonceil ny Gaelgey.'' References Further reading Action Plan for Manx Language Strategy 2017-2021 Action Plan for Coonceil na Gaelgey 2017-2021
It is tempting to regard deep structures as representing meanings and surface structures as representing sentences that express those meanings, but this is not the concept of deep structure which Chomsky favoured.
The collocates can then be arranged alphabetically according to first or second word to the right or to the left.
The Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy organises workshops, seminars, cultural events and gatherings for Tulu public.
See also Konkani language References External links Goa Konkani Akademi website Archived 5 May 2007 at the Wayback Machine
Counting of the words in each corpus presents significant methodological challenges – in principle, every single occurrence of a word in the text is counted separately, but in the case of parallel transmission of literary texts, only a single transmission is taken into account.
it provides a specific type of help to a specific type of user in specific types of user situations.
References Literary Terms & Literary Theory "Moscow Linguistic Circle (literary critic)": entry in the Britannica Online Encyclopedia
In the context of natural language processing (NLP), the use of n-grams allows bag-of-words models to capture information such as word order, which would not be possible in the traditional bag of words setting.
It is responsible for the provision of authoritative Manx versions of the titles of government departments and street names, and the creation of new words and phrases.
Akademi Kernewek (Cornish: Cornish Language Academy) is the official academic body responsible for the linguistic development of the Cornish language.
Old Saxon takes an intermediate position between Anglo-Frisian and Old High German and Old Low Franconian: in Eastern dialects, it sometimes shows i-mutation in such cases (e.g.
Julio Caro Baroja, 1986–1995, anthropologist Ángel González Muñiz, 1997–2008, poet Inés Fernández-Ordóñez, since 2011 Q seat Mercurio Antonio López Pacheco, Marquis of Villena, 1714–1738.
Not all extinct languages are corpus languages, since there are many extinct languages in which few or no writings or other records survive, as is the case in the vast majority of languages that have ever existed.
See also VerbNet FrameNet d:Wikidata:WikiProject Events and Role Frames References External links PropBank website GitHub repositories PropBank about (Martha Palmer) NomBank website SALSA website
The Ministry of Education of Somalia (Somali: Wasaaradda Waxbarashada) (Arabic: وزارة التعليم) is the ministry responsible for education in Somalia.
The Academy sets standards for modern Hebrew grammar, orthography, transliteration, and punctuation based on the historical development of the language.
See also Academia Brasileira de Letras International Portuguese Language Institute Sciences Academy of Lisbon External links Official website (in Portuguese)
The Algerian Academy of the Amazigh Language is the pre-eminent Algerian council for matters pertaining to the Amazigh language (also known as the Berber language), including Standard Algerian Berber.
It concerns Belgium (Brussels and Wallonia; 350,000 learners), Germany (Lower Saxony and North Rhine-Westphalia, 40,000 learners) and France (Nord-Pas-de-Calais, 8,000 learners).
Many language academies are private institutions, although some are governmental bodies in different states, or enjoy some form of government-sanctioned status in one or more countries.
The frequency-rank word distribution is often characteristic of the author and changes little over time.
Its coverage of varieties of Standard Afrikaans is being expanded, which includes the Nama, Griqua and Kaaps varieties.
The Guoyin Zidian later became the Mandarin Chinese Dictionary (國語辭典; Guóyǔ Cídiǎn), a comprehensive online and CD-ROM Traditional Chinese Mandarin dictionary.
Thus, the notions of 'syntactic' and 'morphological' specifiers and complements are crucial for the linearisation of syntactic structure and its mapping to the morphological component.
The Bibliotheca Polyglotta is a Norwegian database for Multilingualism project, lingua franca and science per global history at the University of Oslo.
The Academy of the Guarani Language (Guarani: Guarani Ñe’ẽ Rerekuapavẽ, Spanish: Academia de la Lengua Guaraní) is a Paraguayan institution that promotes and regulates the Guarani language, one of the official languages of Paraguay and the Mercosur.
Traditionally, it has been considered a dialect of the South Estonian dialect group of the Estonian language, but nowadays it has its own literary language and is in search of official recognition as an autochthonous regional language of Estonia.
This stands in stark contrast to present day linguistics which is wary of political analysis, and has tended to aspire to non-political objectivity.
References Further reading Pitt, M.A., Dilley, L., Johnson, K., Kiesling, S., Raymond, W., Hume, E., and Fosler-Lussier, E.
Titles are given in their original language, with English translations provided of titles in lesser-known languages.
First era: 1964–1989 La Trobe University was officially opened by the Victorian premier, Sir Henry Bolte, on 8 March 1967 at a ceremony that was attended by a number of dignitaries including former Prime Minister of Australia, Robert Menzies.
In that event, each multi-media display would have needed not just to disambiguate an intended meaning but also to inspire confidence in the signal's reliability.
Beginning with volume 10, spanning the period of 1861 through 1863, all issues are available on the journal's website, scanned from the originals, through 1998, volume 7.
Thus a prize is offered for an essay, for a study on the old Dutch language, for literature, for poetry, for prose and for culture.
Presumably, if such children were removed from exposure to English parents, their grammars would continue to be that of creole languages.
See also Gàidhealtachd Languages of Scotland Language revitalization Pròiseact nan Ealan Columba Project Foras na Gaeilge, all-Ireland agency set up to promote the Irish language under the Good Friday Agreement of 1998.
Although the academy's business is creating new words from Hebrew roots and structures to replace loanwords derived from other languages, its own name is a loanword, "akademya." It addresses this irony on its English website.
V., NTM, CIIL, Mysuru, Karnataka ಉದಯೋನ್ಮುಖ ಸಮಾಜದಲ್ಲಿ ಭಾರತೀಯ ಶಿಕ್ಷಣ (Udayonmukha Samaajadalli Bharateeya Shikshana); ISBN 978-81-943849-3-9 Translation of "Indian Education in the Emerging Society" by J.
Research Research on Dutch-Japanese studies was both supported and carried out by the institute, and formed the basis for a majority of their publications.
On 1 January 1965, it was made into a separate department and eventually adopted the name Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka (Language and Literature Bureau).
Germanic a-mutation: stressed *u > *o before a non-close vowel, unless followed by a nasal and consonant.
The Japan-Netherlands Institute (日蘭学会) was a research institute founded in 1975 to carry out research on historical Dutch-Japanese relations and to foster and promote modern academic and cultural exchange.
This can happen either because A and B have the same input but A gets to it first; or if the input for A is the environment where B could've occurred.
Korpusomat - a tool for creating and searching electronic language corpora, created at the Institute of Computer Science of the Polish Academy of Sciences.
Along with the Moscow linguistic circle it was responsible for the development of Russian formalism and literary semiotics.
A corpus manager (corpus browser or corpus query system) is a tool for multilingual corpus analysis, which allows effective searching in corpora.
The Centre for the Greek Language (Greek: Κέντρο Ελληνικής Γλώσσας) is a cultural and educational organisation which aims to promote the Greek language and culture.
Both Linguistic Bibliography / Bibliographie Linguistique and Linguistic Bibliography Online are published by Brill Leiden, Netherlands, on the authority of the Permanent International Committee of Linguists and under the auspices of the International Council for Philosophy and Human Sciences.
Also known as the Pareto–Zipf law, it is a power-law distribution on ranked data, named after the linguist George Kingsley Zipf, who suggested a simpler distribution called Zipf's law, and the mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot, who subsequently generalized it.
COBUILD, an acronym for Collins Birmingham University International Language Database, is a British research facility set up at the University of Birmingham in 1980 and funded by Collins publishers.
Phoneme variation, topics of interest, vocabulary use, discursive practices, and avoidance or uptake of standardized English are all language variables in which one negotiates identity, relationships, and power within and across communities of practice.
When it opened its doors to the public in October 2000, the center struggled with financial problems.
On such a basis, it is suggested that human languages are shifting globally from the original SOV to the modern SVO.
The Spoken Dutch Corpus has contemporary Dutch as spoken in the Netherlands and Flanders, including audio recordings of Standard Dutch.
Its functions include providing materials and support for people learning Greek as a foreign language.
The Father Tongue hypothesis also has implications for language acquisition, as the hypothesis suggests an evolutionary explanation for why females may be better in some aspects of language performance and acquisition.
The corpus, which was distributed as part of the 1999 ICAME CD-ROM, has been used for a number of academic studies including those looking at morphology, pronoun use and language contact studies, as of the influence of Māori on New Zealand English.
Its mission is "to establish rules of usage and to help promote and develop all Kanak languages and dialects".
'National Corpus of the Russian Language') is a corpus of the Russian language that has been partially accessible through a query interface online since April 29, 2004.
The area Spoken Corpora includes archives, such as the "Archiv für Gesprochenes Deutsch (AGD)" (the Archive for spoken German).
A protologism becomes a neologism as soon as it appears in published press, on a website, or in a book, independently of the coiner—though, most definitively, in a dictionary.
Xosé Lluis García Arias was its first president from that moment until 2001 when Ana Cano took over from him.
Psycholexical studies of values In addition to research on personality, the psycholexical method has also been applied to the study of values in multiple languages, providing a contrast with theory-driven approaches such as Schwartz's Theory of Basic Human Values.
The Scots Language Centre (Scots: Centre for the Scots Leid) is an organisation that promotes the use of the Scots language.
As a member of the Leibniz-Gemeinschaft (Leibniz-Association), the IDS is financed both by the federal government and by the state of Baden-Wuerttemberg.
Comparison PropBank differs from FrameNet, the resource to which it is most frequently compared, in several ways.
So when a sentence like that in the diagram below is pronounced, 'John' precedes the V-v-T chain, which in turn precedes 'Mary', the latter being the specifier of V.
The social categorisation theory of leadership suggests that people who internalise the identity of the group, and make it part of their social identity, are more likely to emerge as leaders.
Donaldson (1993) 9 A Grammar of Lezgian – Martin Haspelmath (1993) 10 A Grammar of Dumi – George van Driem (1993) 11 A Grammar of Wardaman – Francesca C.
Maithili Academy is an autonomous organisation of the Government of Bihar dedicated to the promotion of the Maithili language, its literature and culture, founded in 1976 at the urging of chief minister Jagannath Mishra.
India is a highly multilingual nation, where many languages are spoken and also studied, both as part of linguistics and with the aim of aiding community development.
Warren Norman Throughout the 1940s, researchers such as Raymond Cattell and Donald Fiske used factor analysis to explore the more general structure of the trait terms in Allport and Odbert's Column I.
Washback may be considered harmful to more fluid approaches in language education where definitions of language ability may be limited; however, it may be considered beneficial when good teaching practices result.
The Buckeye Corpus of conversational speech is a speech corpus created by a team of linguists and psychologists at Ohio State University led by Prof.
See also References External links Ozdic Collocation Dictionary A Small System Storing Spanish Collocations (Igor A.
In addition, some 300 scientists, amateurs and professionals, are active in the scientific societies hosted by the Fryske Akademy.
History Võro (Võro: võro kiil' [ˈvɤro kʲiːlʲ], Estonian: võru keel) is a language belonging to the Finnic branch of the Uralic languages.
Ethnologue's estimates are conservative, as many linguists have noted that many endangered languages in the Philippines.
Interlingua's vocabulary is verified and recorded by dynamically applying certain general principles to an existing set of natural languages and their etymologies.
The Text, considered the foundational tool of the School, is used to view the boundaries of a material creation, experience, occurrence, etc., particularly those things that are culturally integrated or artistic.
Langacker's work emphasizes that both abstract structure and instance-based detail are contained in language, differing in granularity but not in basic principles.
Aspenström did not reveal his reasons for resigning but indicated support for a stronger statement by the Academy on the Rushdie case.
Rickford has researched and written extensively on the topic and was an outspoken supporter of the decision.
The Computer System to Aid the Linguistic Field Worker, P-4095, Santa Monica, The RAND Corporation, May 1969.
Vinogradov Russian Language Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences - a modern institution (founded in 1944), playing a similar role.
ISBN 9781556195815 (with Guy, Feagin, and Schiffrin) Towards a Social Science of Language: Papers in honor of William Labov.
With the help of voluntary linguists, lexicographers and computer professionals from many part of the world, the VNPF publishes Nôm dictionary in both print edition and digital format, making it the first Nôm dictionary in TrueType.
Jackson to describe a hypothetical Roman-era (1st to 5th centuries) predecessor to the Pictish language, diverging from Brythonic in 75-100 AD.
Writing on Language Log, the linguist Ben Zimmer accused it of "hoodwink[ing] unsuspecting journalists on a range of pseudoscientific claims".
Payack, the GLM describes its role as "a media analytics company that documents, analyzes and tracks cultural trends in language the world over, with a particular emphasis upon International and Global English".
Once performed by hand, POS tagging is now done in the context of computational linguistics, using algorithms which associate discrete terms, as well as hidden parts of speech, by a set of descriptive tags.
The Centre for the Greek Language acts as a coordinating, advisory and strategic organ of the Greek Ministry of Education on matters of language education and policy.
Within the area of corpus linguistics, collocation is defined as a sequence of words or terms which co-occur more often than would be expected by chance.
It also provides research grants for research in Tulu language and culture; publishes books; and presents the annual awards in the fields of Tulu literature, Tulu folk arts, yakshagana, research and novel writing.
As of 1993, the online edition contained all entries of the printed volumes, with new records added on a monthly basis.
See also Language policy Language revival List of language regulators References External links Official website
devoted to the promotion of education and research in (the) Konknni language, literature and culture".
References External links Website of the Academy of the Guarani Language Archived 2020-09-29 at the Wayback Machine (in Guarani) (in Spanish)
Professional grades of membership are: Associate (ACIL), Member (MCIL) and Fellow (FCIL) and there are also several Affiliate grades of membership.
Among the scheduled projects was the construction of a new headquarters for the Academy in Mogadishu, in recognition of Somalia's traditional position as the center for the development and promotion of the Somali language.
Inevitably, the School would become largely redundant once effective undergraduate and postgraduate training in Irish and Celtic languages had been properly established in Irish Universities...
While this is mostly adhered to by Norwegian organisations, Helsinki remains in some use in media and travel guides, while Lahtis for Lahti is almost entirely disregarded.
In 1997 Laurent Excoffier, his student Estella Poloni and his team reported that they had found a strong correlation between the Y-chromosomal sequence P49a,f/Taql variation and linguistics, while not being able to find such a correspondence for the mtDNA variation.
All the collected data is analyzed by linguists that develop a form of writing which is accepted by the speakers.
As the grammaticality of a linguistic construction is an abstract construct that cannot be accessed directly, this type of tasks is usually not called grammaticality, but acceptability judgment.
References Measuring Linguistic Diversity on the Internet, edited with an introduction by UNESCO Institute for Statistics, Montreal Canada, UNESCO, 2005.
Others Other social variables have also been studied, such as urbanness and education; informal friendship contacts; and occupation and residence.
One of the most accepted classifications, based on P-Celtic hypothesis, looks like: Criticism Some scholars criticise Pritenic hypothesis; In 2015, linguist Guto Rhys stated that most proposals that Pictish diverged from Brittonic before c.
The Secretary is called "Perpetual", as the holder serves for life, but holds the ability to resign; they may thereafter be styled as "Honorary Perpetual Secretary", with three post-World War II Perpetual Secretaries having previously resigned due to old age.
Petersburg, Russia, in 1783 by Empress Catherine II of Russia and princess Dashkova as a research center for Russian language and Russian literature, following the example of the Académie Française.
The Commission on the Filipino Language (CFL), also referred to as the Komisyon sa Wikang Filipino (KWF), is the official regulating body of the Filipino language and the official government institution tasked with developing, preserving, and promoting the various local languages of the Philippines.
According to her, the School continued to exist in the works of Fedir Medvedev, Oleksandr Finkel, Petro Verbitsky, Lidiya Lysychenko, Olena Oleksenko, Petro Redin and others.
As such, small alignment errors or minor discrepancies that would cause a translation memory to fail are of no importance.
Overview Aside from the original approach of Jackson (also supported by Koch), several linguists made their own opinion on the idea of Pritenic.
This version FidaPLUS corpus contains Word sketches, an automatic corpus-derived overview of word's grammatical and collocational behaviour.
These include (for Spanish) Redes: Diccionario combinatorio del español contemporaneo (2004), (for French) Le Robert: Dictionnaire des combinaisons de mots (2007), and (for English) the LTP Dictionary of Selected Collocations (1997) and the Macmillan Collocations Dictionary (2010).
Culture of the Word (Slovak: Kultúra slova), a peer-reviewed scientific popularization journal for language culture and terminology.
More generally, will the texts used for the study Sanskrit, Chinese and Tibetan." References Om databasen på UiOs nettsider Bibliotheca Polyglotta
Non-feminine dative singular prononimal/adjectival endings In North Sea Germanic, the dative singular strong adjectival and pronominal ending shows a short form ending in -m (Old English þǣm~þām, Old Frisian thām, Old Saxon thēm.
The Chair of the OQLF presides over the Jury of the Dictée of the Americas, an international competition of French spelling created by Télé-Québec in 1994.
The Bailang people are described as living to the west of Wenshan, a mountain of the Minshan range in the southern part of modern Mao County.
The State Language Centre protects rights and interests of the official language users, promotes the regularisation of the cultural environment of language and promotes comprehensive functioning of the Latvian language.
Linguists had important positions in the early Soviet state, as they were needed to develop alphabets for languages that previously had never been written.
The academy was officially established on 27 December 2017, by the former president of Algeria Abdelaziz Bouteflika.
Additional members of the interim council were: Keith Aickin, barrister Sir Frank Macfarlane Burnet, Nobel Prize for Medicine 1960, Professor of Experimental Medicine and Director of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute, president of the Australian Academy of Science 1965-69 J.
The government acquired a land at Perumbakkam and a fund of ₹ 246.547 million was allotted in 2017 to construct a building.
The divisions are less clear for spoken data than they are for written data, as there was more variation in topic and execution.
However, since 2005 this has changed to a more general calling for those working in the field of Dutch language and literature.
The council assumed its current name (Språkrådet; "The Language Council") in 2006, as it became a department of the state agency the Institute for Language and Folklore.
History The school has been instrumental in developing biosemiotics as a new perspective on the study of life, in the biological and environmental sciences.
This trend was supported, from the beginning of the 21st century, by the availability of large text corpora and intelligent corpus-querying software, making it possible to provide a more systematic account of collocation in dictionaries.
Sydney Located at 255 Elizabeth Street, near Hyde Park, the Sydney campus is centrally located and offers courses in business, accounting and informational technologies, as well as some bridging and enabling courses.
For each language the material had the following composition: Many-talker set: 30 males and 30 females each read 100 numbers, 3 connected-speech passages and 5 "filler" sentences (to provide further instances of some items) or 4 passages if no fillers were needed.
The tone system was modified Programs The commission established the Seven Mandarin Sound Promotion Programs (《國音推行方法七條》; Guoyu Tuixing Fangfa Qi Tiao): Proclaimed Zhuyin Zimu.
In preparation for a new question on the census asking whether residents could understand Scots, the organisation launched a website with example of the language to allow respondents to determine if they could.
See also Semantic net Sliding window based part-of-speech tagging Trigram tagger Word sense disambiguation References Works cited Charniak, Eugene.
Some words are often found together because they make up a compound noun, for example 'riding boots' or 'motor cyclist' or ‘collocation extraction’ its very self.
Finland Swedish), the Sami languages, Romani language, as well as Finnish Sign Language and Finland-Swedish Sign Language.
The Academy considers Catalan as a different language from Valencian, but places both languages inside of the Occitano-Romance languages family.
The center was one of four New York City-based institutions to donate at that time, joining eight others.
These initiatives help provide a platform for tribal voices and encourage dialogue between communities, scholars, and institutions.
Some corpus languages, such as Ancient Greek and Latin, left very large corpora and therefore can be fully reconstructed, even though some details of pronunciation may be unclear.
The institute main tasks of the institute are: Educational and information work about the Kvens both nationally and internationally.
From the 1970s until his death in 2005, Sergei Starostin was the informal "head of the Moscow school," and since 1999, the formal head of the Center of Comparative Linguistics at the RSUH Institute for Oriental and Classical Studies.
The American scholar Dell Hymes cites his 1962 paper "The Ethnography of Speaking" as the formal introduction of Prague functionalism to American linguistic anthropology.
The association Verein kriegskind.de is among those that published search efforts (Suchbitten) to identify Lebensborn children.
The gross reproduction rate (GRR) is the average number of daughters a woman would have if she survived all of her childbearing years, which is roughly to the age of 45, subject to the age-specific fertility rate and sex ratio at birth throughout that period.
Angiosperms exhibit three patterns of megasporogenesis: monosporic, bisporic, and tetrasporic, also known as the Polygonum type, the Alisma type, and the Drusa type, respectively.
History The church gained early attention in 1995 because of its affiliation with paranoia.com, which hosted many controversial sites during the late 1990s and early 2000s.
These include sporadic wet and sporadic dry, describing animals that breed sporadically not always under favorable conditions of rain or lack thereof.
"Recommended practices for the management of embryology, andrology, and endocrinology laboratories: a committee opinion".
Virility (from the Latin virilitas, manhood or virility, derived from Latin vir, man) refers to any of a wide range of masculine characteristics viewed positively.
Background The TwoDay method is a simple fertility awareness method requiring users to check for cervical secretions twice a day.
In 1995, she received a Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery (MBChB) from the University of Edinburgh Medical School.
In some versions, she buries each part where she finds it, causing the desert to put forth vegetation.
Some animals that are long day breeders include ring-tailed lemurs, horses, hamsters, groundhogs, and mink.
A single semen sample is not determining for disease diagnosis, so two different samples have to be analyzed with an interval between them of seven days to three months, as sperm production is a cyclic process.
The story deals with humanity in an age of intelligent machines and of the aching loneliness endemic in an overpopulated future where child creation is controlled.
The first plants were aquatic, as described in the page Evolutionary history of plants, and released sperm freely into the water to be carried with the currents.
The collection of semen is preserved by stabilizing the properties of the sperm cells such as the membrane, motility, and 'DNA integrity' in order to create a sustainable viable environment.
A decrease in estradiol as well as oxidative stress leads to apoptosis of the granulosa cells off the oocyte which deteriorates oocyte quality.
Moreover, some researchers have found that some men can have multiple orgasms, despite what Masters and Johnson had reported.
This is a list of women said to have given birth to 20 or more children and men said to have fathered more than 25 children.
He also helped to establish and advocate for the Office of Minority Affairs within the School of Medical Sciences at Arkansas.
It uses hormonal stimulation to trigger the production of multiple eggs, which are surgically removed and frozen for storage and future use.
Little evidence exists to suggest that high-fertility parents appear to be economically disadvantaged, further strengthening the fact that total fertility rates tend to be higher among women in rural areas.
In Tendai Buddhism Ugajin was syncretically fused with Buddhist goddess Benzaiten, which became known as Uga Benzaiten or Uga Benten.
In some cases these deities are directly associated with these experiences; in others they are more abstract symbols.
The success rate for is lower than most women expect, requiring, on average, about 10 frozen eggs to be used for each live birth.
List of countries 1950 to 2015 List of regions References External links United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs – Population Division – World Population Prospects, the 2017 Revision
Selective estrogen receptor modulators Clomiphene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM).
The sudden rise in calcium levels causes the flagellum to form deeper bends, propelling the sperm more forcefully through the viscous environment.
Practice Committee of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine; Practice Committee of the Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology; Practice Committee of the Society of Reproductive Biologists and Technologists (October 2014).
Career and research While a graduate student at the University of Iowa, Sherman also worked in the campus library and as a janitor in addition to his research assistant duties.
Trans-cervical sampling involves inserting a catheter through the cervix into the placenta to obtain villi; an ultrasound is used to guide the catheter to the site of sampling.
A person's access to contraception is critical for ensuring their optimal health and achieving their reproductive goals as it allows individuals to have control over their body and freedom to decide when to become a parent.
Medabon Medabon is another product developed by the Concept Foundation which induces medical abortion.
In an attempts to estimate the prevalence of AS in the general population, it was found in 1.5% of women undergoing hysterosalpingography HSG, and between 5 and 39% of women with recurrent miscarriage.
It was particularly useful in assessing the extent to which sperm from a potential donor could penetrate cervical mucus when artificial insemination was principally performed by ICI or IVI, rather than by IUI.
Biography John Billings was born in Melbourne and was educated at Xavier College, and at the University of Melbourne where he received his Doctor of Medicine degree.
A 1992 Danish meta-analysis, commonly known as the Carlsen study after its principal author, showed that between 1938 and 1990 a population described as healthy had experienced a significant decrease in sperm count and semen volume.
Those born after the Russian Revolution were explicitly told that they were to build a utopia of brotherhood and justice, and to not be like their parents, but completely Red.
His book Counselling in Male Infertility was published in 1996; he contributed to a number of newspaper articles and appeared on several current affairs television programmes.
Animal studies have demonstrated these genetic abnormalities, in addition to physical changes in the mitochondria themselves and reduced ATP production.
The exact percentage purity of each population is dependent on the species being sorted and the 'gates' which the operator places around the total population visible to the machine.
While genetics is not the exclusive cause of mating systems within animals, it is influential in many animals, particularly rodents, which have been the most heavily researched.
Immigrant sex workers in Malaysia who get pregnant have entered into such exchanges as it is illegal for them to bear children.
Black women were determined by the Western world to have a wild, promiscuous nature and immoral, loose, and impure practices and values.
It has remained popular for over eighty years, in large part because of the simplicity of the calculation.
It is believed that worshippers would push the pointed legs into the earth to erect a temporary shrine for the goddess.
Then, a flat layer cell forms on the exterior of this cavity, and the zona pellucida, the blastocyst's barrier, remains the same size as before.
For Easterlin, the size of the cohort is a critical determinant of how easy it is to get a good job.
It records that Amaterasu came to Emperor Yūryaku in a dream and told him she alone was not able to supply enough food and needed him to bring Toyuke-no-Ōkami (等由気大神), the kami of divine food, from Manai Pond in Hiji Village, Tanba Province.
The R0 is particularly relevant where sex ratios at birth are significantly affected by the use of reproductive technologies, or where life expectancy is low.
Neural connections between the sensory cortex and thalamus develop as early as 24 weeks of gestational age, but the first evidence of their function does not occur until around 30 weeks.
The majority of items were published from 1970 to the present, but there were selected citations dating back to 1827.
In the final analysis, doesn’t it make sense that those who see children as gifts from God would have more children than those who see children as economic cost units?
Sanger was mainly active in the United States, but had gained an international reputation by the 1930s.
This allows males (XY) to have equal genetic activity as females (XX), whose X's are not hyperactivated.
On February 19, 2020, the first pair of Cheetah cubs to be conceived through embryo transfer from a surrogate cheetah mother was born at Columbus Zoo in Ohio.
They may also develop incompetent cervix where the cervix can no longer support the growing weight of the fetus, the pressure causes the placenta to rupture, and the mother goes into premature labour.
Many consider the rhythm method to have been obsolete for at least 20 years, and some even exclude calendar-based methods from their definition of fertility awareness.
in: Michael von Wolff, Petra Stute: Gynäkologische Endokrinologie und Reproduktionsmedizin: Das Praxisbuch.
Tubal obstruction is caused by infection, endometriosis, myomas, salpingitis isthmica nodosa (SIN), or dried mucus.
While Rachel is devastated, Richard admits to being relieved that they are finally done with trying, as their marriage and intimacy have suffered.
Other national-government responses include recommendations by the UK's National Health Service for a healthy lifestyle and loose-fitting underwear to improve fertility.
that medical science should by the study of natural rhythms succeed in determining a sufficiently secure basis for the chaste limitation of offspring." This is interpreted as favoring the then-new, more reliable symptoms-based fertility awareness methods over the rhythm method.
Defoe accomplished this through anecdotes, such as a conversation between two women in which the right-minded chides the other for asking for "recipes" that might prevent pregnancy.
In both species more brightly colored males mated with more brightly colored females and less brightly colored individuals paired with one another.
He failed to notice that a trailer carrying a full-sized bulldozer had detached from the large dump truck he was driving, as he passed through South Jersey's largest traffic circle.
related in some way to woman's proper function as a fertile being (which allowed her to promote the fertility of crops too, by sympathy)".
Many people fear that if anonymous donation is made illegal, then the number of donors will decrease and there will not be enough supply.
Other plants with similar reproductive strategies include Psilotum, Lycopodium, Selaginella and Equisetum.
When controlling for the age of the female partner, comparisons between men under 30 and men over 50 found relative decreases in pregnancy rates between 23% and 38%.
The current (2015–20) estimate for the R0 worldwide under the UN's medium variant model is 1.09 daughters per woman.
Pharmacokinetics When ganirelix is given to healthy adult females, steady-state serum concentrations are reached, on average, after three days ("Ganirelix acetate injection," 2009).
One-third of the female population, thirteen million women, were actively engaged in a Nazi Party organisation, and female membership in the Nazi Party increased steadily until the end of the war.
In popular culture The Czech TV film Spring of Life (2000) tells the story of a Sudeten German teenager recruited as a future mother into a Lebensborn in Poland.
Where pregnancy occurs in these individuals, there are high risks associated with the health of the offspring due to pregnancy complications.
See also Sperm bank Gene bank Artificial insemination Genetic counseling Genetic testing New eugenics Safe upper age limit for women donating ova Eugenics Infertility Surrogacy Commercial surrogacy Assisted reproduction Designer babies == References ==
In vitro fertilization is the most well known of the assisted reproductive technology procedures performed at a fertility clinic.
The sociologist Jean Stoetzel (1910-1987), who founded IFOP in 1938 after working as an internee for Gallup in America, was a pioneer of survey studies at INED.
Like humans engaging in sexual activity primarily for pleasure, this behavior in these animals is also presumed to be for pleasure, and a contributing factor to strengthening their social bonds.
Individuals also reported that voluntary sterilization (for both males and females) was most common among Germany, Spain, and Denmark.
These references may be used by medical providers as well as patients to assess their eligibility to use individual contraceptives like birth control pills, intrauterine devices, and implants.
Also, morphological features of the oocyte that can be obtained by standard light or polarized light microscopy.
Reception Journalist and author Matthias Kamann saw AM as an attempt to give those in the AfD a platform "who want it to be hard conservative, but factual - not ethnic or insulting.
Identity In response to the disturbance caused by the unknown presence, Ibudhou Thangjing traveled from the northern foothills and met Ibudhou Oknarel.
See also Demographics of Russia References (2007) More than 1,476 thousand new Russians were born - 19 thousand more than in 2005 - Higher School of Economics
According to the American Eugenics Archive, "race suicide" conceptualizes a hypothetical situation in which the death rate of a particular "race" supersedes its birth rate.
When the sperm is exposed to chemo-attractant, especially progesterone; the sperm will exhibit sudden flagellar arrest, followed by sharp turn and hyperactivation.
Due to the lack of reliable evidence from controlled clinical trials, it is not certain which semen preparation techniques are more effective (wash and centrifugation; swim-up; or gradient) in terms of pregnancy and live birth rates.
These intersections of beliefs created Korea's own version of "Good Wife, Wise Mother" (Ryōsai Kenbo) called Hyonmo Yangcho.
Because of this, plant-based oral contraception in history is often contested, though archaeological and written record shows evidence that drugs were a reliable way to prevent conception or even induce early-term abortions.
There are many groups around the world which oppose to ARTs, including religious groups and pro-life charities such as LIFE.
Karachay-Cherkessia, Adygea and North Ossetia) and some parts of Arctic Russia (Murmansk, Komi, etc.).
Occurrence Trioecy is a relatively common sexual system in plants, estimated to occur in about 3.6% of flowering plant species, although most reports of trioecy could be misinterpretations of gynodioecy.
"Outcomes From Treatment of Infertility With Natural Procreative Technology in an Irish General Practice".
One of the biggest problems in women who have to undergo chemo- or radiotherapy is premature ovarian failure (premature ovarian insufficiency) and its associated infertility.
Shettles, Richard Einhorn, From Conception to Birth: The Drama of Life's Beginnings, Harper Row, 1971 Publications by Landrum B.
After his retirement from the VUB in September 2012 Professor Devroey joined the team of IVF centre Jan Palfijn Hospital in Ghent, where he focuses on the most challenging cases of infertility.
Durkheim suggests that the name "churinga" is normally a noun, but can also be used as an adjective meaning "sacred".
Diabetes mellitus and pregnancy deals with the interactions of diabetes mellitus (not restricted to gestational diabetes) and pregnancy.
According to this teaching, people should oppose him, abandon his world, not create people, and trust in the good God of mercy, foreign and distant.
These women could only use primitive methods of abortion, which led to infection, sterility, or even their own death.
Because of his link to the grape harvest, however, it is not surprising to see Dionysus associated with Demeter and Kore in the Eleusinian Mysteries.
The medium is replaced every 2 days and after 6 days the culture is fixed or frozen for further processing.
Diagnosis If both partners are young and healthy and have been trying to conceive for one year without success, a visit to a physician or women's health nurse practitioner (WHNP) could help to highlight potential medical problems earlier rather than later.
All medical content found on Bedsider was developed with the assistance of many experts who are a part of The National Campaign to Prevent Teen and Unplanned Pregnancy’s Medical Advisory Committee.
The prospective beneficence asymmetry: it is strange to mention the interests of a potential child as a reason why we decide to create them, and it is not strange to mention the interests of a potential child as a reason why we decide not to create them.
Poland's capitalist government and its chief of state, Marshal Józef Piłsudski, were fierce anti-communists; all parties or groups affiliated with Communist activities were banned and its members sent to Bereza Kartuska concentration camp in eastern Poland.
The World League for Sexual Reform officially came into existence on July 3, 1928, at its congress in Copenhagen.
The original painting is now lost, but a colossal copy of the painting exists, painted by the artist Titian and known as Venus Anadyomene by Titian.
Zygote intra fallopian transfer (ZIFT) is an infertility treatment used when a blockage in the fallopian tubes prevents the normal binding of sperm to the egg.
Once infection has been eliminated, surgery may be successful in opening the lumen of the fallopian tubes to allow a successful pregnancy and birth.
But if her peers decide she has crossed an invisible, constantly shifting boundary and has become too 'slutty,' she loses all credibility.
This type of life history is especially well known among certain bamboos (family Poaceae) some of which have a life cycle of 40 to 50 years.
Infant mortality rates are indicative of fertility rates as couples decide to have a lot children knowing that a number of them will die so that even after those children die, they have sufficient kids to aid in agricultural work.
Limitations Similar to other fertility awareness methods, the TwoDay Method requires women to abstain from vaginal sex or use a barrier method on days identified as fertile.
Many worshippers celebrate the day with carnations, coloured if the mother is living and white if she is dead.
The intent of these recommendations was to allow public health programs in individual countries to tailor contraceptive safety guidance to their particular populations.
Vegetation goddess figurines from the Cucuteni-Trypillian culture have a lozenge and dot pattern that represents a sown field and female fertility.
It acts as a buffer to protect sperm cells from their own toxic byproducts, as well as protecting the sperm from cold shock and osmotic shock during the chilling and shipping process (the semen is chilled to reduce metabolism).
Consultancy work with the UK division of Ares Serono (1986–1994) also involved work with the Bourn Hallam Group, which Patrick Steptoe and Bob Edwards had set up after Louise Brown's birth.
Philosophical issues The distinction in ethical value between existing persons and potential future persons has been questioned.
Loans were offered to married couples, with part of the loan cancelled for each new child, and any married man who had more than six children was made exempt from taxation.
in 1967, and entered the contact lens business when it acquired British lens maker GlobalVision in 1972.
OBGYN News, October 15–31, 1982, for example, reported on a study of undersea divers in Australia showing that their offspring were almost 2-1 female.
"'Reichsbund der Kinderreichen' : the League of Large Families in the Population Policy of Nazi Germany".
This was so unusual the Government sent someone out to the town to investigate the cause for the high birth rate.
Another organization that offers these services is the National Embryo Donation Center, which requires recipients to be a heterosexual couple that have been married for at least three years.
Ala is also responsible for many aspects of Igbo society and guardianship of women and children in general.
Cytoplasmic transfer was created to aid those who experience infertility due to deficient or damaged mitochondria, contained within an egg's cytoplasm.
81% of variation in ovarian reserve is due to age alone, making age the most important factor in female infertility.
Estradiol cypionate/medroxyprogesterone acetate (brand names Cyclofem, Lunelle; code name Cyclo-Provera), is a once-a-month combined injectable contraceptive which contains 25 mg of medroxyprogesterone acetate—the same ingredient in Depo Provera—and 5 mg of estradiol cypionate.
Pilgrims to Mecca and tombs of saints are also garlanded since it is believed they preserve the life force of a tree.
The average fertility rate in countries such as Thailand or Chile approached the mark of one child per woman, which triggered concerns about the rapid aging of populations worldwide.
Liberation of blood cell debris into the circulation will also cause disseminated intravascular coagulation.
"Conjugal Lewdness or, Matrimonial Whoredom" (later retitled "A Treatise Concerning the Use and Abuse of the Marriage Bed" for propriety) is a 1727 essay by Daniel Defoe.
In countries such as Canada, the UK, Australia and New Zealand, a maximum of two embryos are transferred except in unusual circumstances.
"Good Wife, Wise Mother" accompanied the existing phrase "wealthy country and strong army" (fukoku kyohei).
These cells remodel the spiral arteries to improve and secure maternal blood flow to the growing embryo.
In the cult, a mother goddess represented by a trinity was worshiped, along with a heroic young god would die and be reborn in an unending cycle due to his father, the supreme god.
Recently, a systematic review that looked at studies evaluating the link between RPL and smoking was unable to find a significant difference in risk of recurrent pregnancy loss between people that smoke and non-smokers.
federal government-promoted abstinence-only program was aimed at teens in 1981 in order to discourage premarital sex and unwanted pregnancies.
This cannot be seen as abortifacient because, by any of the above definitions, pregnancy has not started.
They led a nomadic agrarian lifestyle, including hunting, fishing, farming, and firewood collection, and had a daughter named Macha Ibemma.
Medications Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome is particularly associated with injection of a hormone called human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) which is used for inducing final oocyte maturation and/or triggering oocyte release.
The muscle that surrounds the vaginal opening grows tighter and the uterus elevates and grows in size.
Whereas cranial irradiation will disrupt the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis (HPG-A), causing subsequent disruption of hormone secretion.
Women who are breastfeeding or have recently used contraceptive injections must wait before using CycleBeads.
Women of reproductive age who undergo cytotoxic chemotherapy have been pretreated with GnRH agonists to reduce the risk of oocyte loss during such therapy and preserve ovarian function.
The jus trium liberorum (Latin, "the right of three children"; also spelled ius), was a privilege awarded to Roman citizens who had produced at least three children or to freedpersons who had produced at least four.
Women may choose between several methods of fertility preservation prior to chemotherapy, including cryopreservation of ovarian tissue, oocytes or embryos.
However, there is no clear tendency in recent publications to a general increase in predictive value of morphological features.
Due to the fact that women bear the children and therefore cannot reproduce as often as men, their records are often shared with or exceeded by their partners.
Courtship occurs before copulation and is often facilitated after receiving a chemical signal from pheromones.
Programs that covered both STD prevention and pregnancy, rather than just one topic alone, had more positive effects on teenagers use of effective contraception, as did programs that had interactive elements when compared to programs that did not.
The hypothesis as formulated by Richard Easterlin presumes that material aspirations are determined by experiences rooted in family background: he assumes first that young couples try to achieve a standard of living equal to or better than they had when they grew up.
Using this procedure that allows the detection of bacteria that cannot be cultured outside the body, studies of microbiota present in the uterus are expected to increase.
Neither candidate was elected, with party leader Herman Kelly receiving 2,441 (0.67%) first preference votes, and Cahill receiving 10,582 (1.47%) first preference votes.
In the same year, the short story was republished in the eponymous Aldiss short-story collection Supertoys Last All Summer Long and Other Stories of Future Time, along with the tie-in stories Supertoys When Winter Comes and Supertoys in Other Seasons.
The risk of having a large-for-gestational-age baby and higher birth rate, in addition to maternal hypertensive disorders of pregnancy may be increased using a "freeze all" strategy.
Origin The legend tells that the son, or daughter (in other versions), of the spirit Pillan Antu wanted the power of his father.
To achieve this end, it utilizes a number of factors that differentially favor one gender or the other, including timing of intercourse relative to ovulation time, position during sex and other factors.
Fusobacterium nucleatum, a Gram-negative bacteria commensal to the oral microbiome, is associated with periodontal disease and has been linked with a wide variety of health outcomes, including unfavorable pregnancy outcomes.
Cross-checking the cervical mucus with another donor semen will confirm whether antibodies are cervical or seminal.
This situation was presented in a 2001 documentary called Children Underground, which depicted the life of Romanian street children.
The flowering periodicity in all individuals is rarely 100%, with the result that flowering of rare individuals in non-mass-flowering years is not uncommon.
Generally, the main purpose of storing ova, at present, is to overcome infertility which may arise at a later age, or due to a disease.
For this reason the technique is unsuitable for routine use Moreover, even if Salpingoscopy is carried out in individual cases, the macroscopic examination is not fully revealing.
During this time, a male feels a deep and often pleasurable sense of relaxation, usually in the groin and thighs.
With mucus-only methods, there is a possibility of incorrectly identifying mid-cycle or anovulatory bleeding as menstruation.
The amount of screening the embryo has already undergone is largely dependent on the genetic parents' own IVF clinic and process.
Department of Health and Human Services proposed a regulation to protect certain actions of health workers: refusal to provide patient services that the health workers believe to be abortifacient.
In those who are overweight or obese, levonorgestrel is less effective and an IUD or ulipristal is recommended.
Preterm birth is associated with certain species of bacteria that are not normally part of the healthy uterine microbiome.
The Chinese government decided to allow families to have a second child to supposedly grow a bigger work force and allow the aging population to relax more.
In 2016, Toronto's Muddy York Brewing Company produced a Stork Derby Stout as a nod to the unusual event.
Prudence, Grace, and Ted manage to acquire supplies of pills, Grace through a prescription written by Huart, and Ted from the local chemist, or pharmacist, who happens to be a friend of his.
Alcohol Maternal alcohol use leads to disruptions of the fetus' brain development, interferes with the fetus' cell development and organization, and affects the maturation of the central nervous system.
The causes of a large percentage of stillbirths is unknown, even in cases where extensive testing and an autopsy have been performed.
Do it for Denmark is a Danish media and advertising campaign designed to increase the birth rate of the nation.
Subsequent reviews in 2000 and 2004 elaborated on the concept which has been extended to encompass all placental animals with live birth.
Embryos from rescued in vitro-matured metaphase II (IVM-MII) oocytes show significantly higher fertilization rates and more blastomeres per embryo compared with those from arrested metaphase I (MI) oocytes (58.5% vs.
Subjects covered internationally included family planning methods and programs, fertility, and population law and policy.
Xochiquetzal, goddess of fertility, beauty, female sexual power, protection of young mothers, pregnancy, childbirth, and women's crafts.
Juno is a member of the folate receptor family and is GPI-anchored to the plasmalemma of the mammalian egg cell that recognizes its sperm-riding counterpart, IZUMO1, and facilitates fertilization.
Eurostat calculates the fertility rate based on the information provided by national statistics Institutes affiliated to Eurostat.
Much of this was for foreign consumption, where it was widely disbelieved, with President Franklin D.
The law also imposed penalties on orbi, that is, married persons who had no children (qui liberos non habent, Gaius, ii.111) from the age of twenty-five to sixty in a man, and from the age of twenty to fifty in a woman.
They argue that a person can be created for the sake of their parents or other people, but that it is impossible to create someone for their own good; and that, therefore, following Kant's recommendation, we should not create new people.
Fertility options for women Options for women to have children after cancer have increased significantly in recent years.
For example, if you have 12 individuals in an age class and they produced 16 surviving young, the Fx is 16, and the mx is 1.336.
In postmenarchal girls, about 80% of the cycles are anovulatory (ovulation does not actually take place) in the first year after menarche, 50% in the third and 10% in the sixth year.
A small opening is made in the outer layer surrounding the egg in order to help the embryo hatch out and aid in the implantation process of the growing embryo.
For the male, semen collection is a standard diagnostic test to ascertain problems with the semen quality, while females may undergo a number of tests including an ovulation analysis, x-ray of fallopian tubes and uterus, and laparoscopy.
If the value is more than one that indicates that the next generation of women will outnumber the current one.
In continuous breeders, females are sexually receptive during estrus, at which time ovarian follicles are maturing and ovulation can occur.
Those who had three children living at Rome, four in Italy, and five in the provinces, were excused from the office of tutor or curator (Inst.
It is often regarded as the extent to which the generation of daughters replaces the preceding generation of women.
William McGurn, editor of the New York Post, reviewed the book favorably for the Wall Street Journal, but was critical of Last for having 'too much confidence' in his pessimistic scenarios.
2019–2023 2008–2018 Wake Island has fewer than 300 occupants, mainly related to activities of the United States Air Force, none of whom is considered a permanent resident.
Function The addition of extender to semen protects the sperm cells against possible damage by toxic seminal plasma, as well as providing nutrients and cooling buffers if the semen is to be cooled.
However, another study found that cohabiting couples in France have equal fertility as married ones.
The fertility rate equals the expected number of children born per woman in her child-bearing years.
History The European Commission gave marketing authorization for ganirelix throughout the European Union to N.V.
A law project sent reluctantly by the government of President Laura Chinchilla was rejected by parliament.
Prevention Physicians can reduce the risk of OHSS by monitoring of FSH therapy to use this medication judiciously, and by withholding hCG medication.
Sperm donation may provide the source for the sperm used in IVF procedures where the male partner produces no sperm or has an inheritable disease, or where the woman being treated has no male partner.
Gynecologic ultrasonography or gynecologic sonography refers to the application of medical ultrasonography to the female pelvic organs (specifically the uterus, the ovaries, and the fallopian tubes) as well as the bladder, the adnexa, and the recto-uterine pouch.
Death John Billings died, aged 89, on 1 April 2007, at a Richmond aged care centre, survived by his wife, children and large extended family.
An electronic, flexible scope with a camera can also be inserted through the cervix to display live images.
Within 1–3 months of removing the intrauterine device, however, patients should experience a return to their normal menstrual cycle.
Photoperiod likely affects the seasonal breeder through changes in melatonin secretion by the pineal gland that ultimately alter GnRH release by the hypothalamus.
Origin The original birth control necklace was invented in 1989 by the Austrian gynecologist Maria Hengstberger who developed this necklace together with local Ethiopian women and adapted it to their wishes and needs.
Fathers This section lists men who have produced at least 25 or more children, usually with different women.
Porcine uterine serpin binds non-covalently to uteroferrin in a way that stabilizes the iron-binding capacity of uteroferrin.
Reproduction is published on behalf of the Society for Reproduction and Fertility in the United Kingdom.
Background In 1939, Baby Train was mentioned in Christopher Morley's novel Kitty Foyle: "The first thing you hear mornings in Manitou is the early Q train to Chicago.
Thus, they are distinct from seasonal breeders that rely on changes in day length to induce entry into estrus and to cue mating, and continuous breeders like humans that can mate year-round.
Description Marriage loans were created by the "Law for the Reduction of Unemployment" of June 1, 1933.
How married persons may be guilty of conjugal lewdness, and that a man may, in effect, make a whore of his own wife.
Most commonly, spermatozoa live only one to three days in the presence of fertile mucus, with survival up to five days being rare.
The presence of the blastocyst means that two types of cells are forming, an inner-cell mass growing on the interior of the blastocele and cells growing on the exterior of it.
Later 20th century to present In the first half of the 20th century, most users of the rhythm method were Catholic; they were following their church's teaching that all other methods of birth control were sinful.
Many social norms or practices affect fertility regulation including celibacy, the age at marriage and the timing and frequency of sexual intercourse, including periods of prescribed sexual abstinence.
The event is designed to reduce what some Russian elements view as increasing sexlessness among young people in Russia.
Some definitions consider sperm activation to consist of these two processes of hyperactivation and the acrosome reaction.
Klinefelter syndrome is a chromosomal defect that occurs during gamete formation due to a non-disjunction error during cell division.
Others may do it by relaxing the area around the penis, which may result in harder erections especially when extremely aroused.
Journals Human Reproduction is published on behalf of the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.
The term fecundity in population biology is often used to denote the rate of offspring production over one time step (typically annual).
These men were treated using FSH treatments and had testicular biopsy's performed on them before and after the treatment had been administered in order to track progress.
The party's registration was subsequently completed, and the Irish Freedom Party (IFP) was included on the Register of Political Parties as of 13 June 2019.
The decline is particularly prevalent in Western regions such as New Zealand, Australia, Europe, and North America.
have shown that despite the older maternal age at birth of the first child, the time span between the birth of the first and the second child, the interpregnancy interval, decreased over the last decades.
Fertility in art refers to any artistic work representing or portraying fertility, which usually refers to successful breeding among humans, although it may also mean successful agriculture and animal husbandry.
Embryokines (Greek: embryuon "embryo" + kinōs "movement") are regulatory molecules produced by the oviduct and endometrium in the reproductive tract that modulate embryonic growth and development.
Print version: The full print document of the US Medical Eligibility Criteria is intended to describe in further detail the medical evidence for each recommendation.
When people searched for him, they eventually found Mukasa sitting under a tree in an island far away from his home.
Aphroditus was portrayed as having a female shape and clothing like Aphrodite's but also a phallus, and hence, a male name.
To avoid the development of endometrial cancer, young women taking estradiol replacement need to also take a progestin in a regular cyclic fashion.
Criticism In 2018, Södersjukhuset, a hospital in Stockholm, Sweden, filed a complaint with the Medical Products Agency of Sweden after 37 women who had been using Natural Cycles as their primary method of contraception sought an abortion at the hospital after becoming pregnant unintentionally.
A solution to the problem is to adopt impersonal views, theories that don't rely on the notion of personal identity, such as utilitarianism.
The production of fertile cervical mucus is caused by estrogen, the same hormone that prepares a woman's body for ovulation.
The decline in ovarian reserve appears to occur at a constantly increasing rate with age, and leads to nearly complete exhaustion of the reserve by about age 51.
The figures given are from the 2021 census; the lowest birth rate recorded in Russia was in 1999, it increased thereafter and the birth rate is 9.6 in 2021 compared to 8.7 in 1999.
Sperm washing involves removing any mucus and non-motile sperm in the semen to improve the chances of fertilization and to extract certain disease-carrying material in the semen.
Numerous fund-raising activities have been conducted by various parties, such as the 1990 album Nobody's Child: Romanian Angel Appeal, which was compiled by George and Olivia Harrison for AIDS-infected orphans.
Couples show similarities in terms of their contributions to public betterment and charities, and this can be attributed to mate choice based on generosity rather than phenotypic convergence.
The most common way to obtain a semen sample is through masturbation or withdrawal method and the best place to obtain it is in the clinic where the analysis will take place in order to avoid temperature changes during the transport that can be lethal for some spermatozoa.
While reproduction is generally independent of photoperiod, animals can still experience reduced fertility with changes in day-length.
Despite the advertisements' obvious irony, it did in fact result in an increase of the Danish birth rate.
The tetrasporic pattern is characterized by cell plates failing to form after either meiosis 1 or 2, and results in one four-nucleate megaspore.
By the 16th century, Inari had become the patron of blacksmiths and the protector of warriors, and worship of Inari spread across Japan in the Edo period.
Barton's second husband, sex researcher Bertold Wiesner, is believed to have been in charge of recruiting sperm donors for Barton's clinic.
The kitsune statues are at times taken for a form of Inari, and they typically come in pairs, representing a male and a female.
See also Cornucopia References External links Kalathos from Kalymnos 1130BC-1090BC, British Museum Kalathos : The Collaborative Numismatics Project Mycenaen Ceramic Kalathos, Phoenix Ancient Art
A furious political debate raged in the 1980s over the ethics of baby food companies marketing infant formula in developing countries.
Artificial insemination using a sperm donor for LGBTQ+ individuals and couples is one of the more cost-effective avenues to parenting.
Religion Although the 1948 Constitution and its two successors provided a simulacrum of religious freedom, the regime in fact had a policy of promoting Marxist–Leninist atheism, coupled with religious persecution.
Hystero contrast sonography (HyCoSy) Hystero contrast sonography (HyCoSy) is a transvaginal ultrasound imaging technique used to evaluate the uterus, fallopian tubes and ovaries.
If this condition is diagnosed, some sources suggest taking guaifenesin in the few days before ovulation to thin out the mucus.
Other research suggests that timing of conception has no effect on miscarriage rates, low birth weight, or preterm delivery.
Fertility A woman typically ovulates at only one time during her cycle (except those with hyperovulation), and an unfertilized ovum can survive for only 12–24 hours.
Studies about the value of progesterone supplementation remain deficient, however, such supplementation is commonly carried out on an empirical basis.
This idea claims that the genetic selection of traits that increase an organism's fecundity is, in turn, advantageous to an organism's fitness.
Mühlenberg focuses on de-Nazification in the American sector, although the British zone is also discussed.
Ireland Since 1 January 1995, stillbirths occurring in Ireland must be registered; stillbirths that occurred before that date can also be registered but evidence is required.
History Prelude Fertility was founded by Martin Varsavsky following his and his wife’s experience with fertility treatment and IVF.
(see References) There were many commentaries on these laws or on this law by the Roman jurists, of which considerable fragments are preserved in the Digest: Gaius wrote 15 books, Ulpian 20, and Paulus 10 books at least on this law.
Mucus can be sampled with by either wiping with toilet paper or inserting a clean finger into the vagina.
GnRH agonists that are used mostly or exclusively in veterinary medicine include deslorelin and fertirelin.
Abstinence-only sex education programs have been found to be ineffective in decreasing rates of HIV infection in the developed world and unplanned pregnancy.
In developed countries and at facilities where expert neonatal care is available, it is considered from 22 completed weeks (usually about 154 days) of gestation (the time when birth weight is normally 500 g) to 7 completed days after birth.
Other researchers have stated that there is a lack of concordance between women's subjective sexual arousal and their genital arousal.
Fructose level Fructose level in the semen may be analysed to determine the amount of energy available to the semen for moving.
In March 2019, Prelude announced a partnership with Inception Fertility and also announced TJ Farnsworth as the company’s new CEO.
The size of the penis statues, which number well over 100, is said to range "[from] the size of a cream doughnut to the size of a canoe"; some are huge, some are humorous and painted pink to closely resemble a human phallus.
Population control In the 20th century, several authoritarian governments sought either to increase or to decrease the birth rates, sometimes through forceful intervention.
Increased awareness during the 1990s expanded the scope of research to address social and biological factors.
Use The hamster zona-free ovum test was frequently performed by sperm banks when screening potential sperm donors.
Medabon combines mifepristone and misoprostol, two abortifacients which health organizations had already deemed safe and effective.
Oshun is the deity of the river and fresh water, luxury and pleasure, sexuality and fertility, and beauty and love.
Martins da Silva's research investigates the functionality of sperm cells, particularly the sperm-specific calcium channel CatSper, and how modern lifestyle choices may affect sperm function.
The most notable example was the controversy surrounding the historian Fernando Paz, the party's leading candidate in Albacete for the April 2019 general election, who resigned after suffering what he described as "a mediatic hunt", due to Holocaust denial and homophobia.
Contraindications There are very few relative or absolute contraindications to the etonogestrel implant.
In Thailand the village ghosts or fairies related to trees such as Nang Takian and Nang Tani are known generically as Nang Mai (นางไม้).
The cervix is cleaned with an antiseptic such as iodine and injected with a local anesthetic to minimize discomfort and pain.
Their views are not necessarily limited only to humans but may encompass all sentient creatures, arguing that coming into existence is a serious harm for sentient beings in general.
(Fertility protection in leukemia patients), information of the European Leukemia Information Center (ELIC) of European LeukemiaNet (in German language)
The variability in definitions is in part explained by the effects of increasing age occurring as a continuum rather than as a threshold effect.
The San Francisco Chronicle described the term as "a joking or derogatory slur used by gays to describe heterosexuals".
Oocyte cryopreservation is now considered a well-established technique for fertility preservation in women.
Shettles in the 1960s and was publicized in the book How to Choose the Sex of Your Baby, coauthored by Shettles and David Rorvik.
Factors associated with unintended pregnancy Unintended pregnancy typically occurs after sexual activity without the use of contraception, or not using it correctly.
The people there did not seem different from people in other small towns, so he couldn't understand why they got three times as many children.
Pre-transfer immunization with antigens from the species providing the embryo has promoted more rapid and uniform failure of the interspecies pregnancy in mice, but increased survival in horse-donkey experiments.
Background In 1996, the World Health Organization created a set of guidelines called "medical eligibility criteria for contraceptive use" for family planning and reproductive health programs and providers in order to guide provision of contraceptive care worldwide.
Certain environmental toxins such as phthalates, bisphenols, and dioxins are also associated with POI.
Scorpions, however, are either ovoviviparous or viviparous, depending on species, and bear live young.
Principles of ovarian culture can be applied to women who are resistant to FSH or oestrogen sensitive tumours.
The pregnancy and implantation rates in ZIFT cycles are 52.3 and 23.2% which were higher than what was observed in IVF cycles which were 17.5 and 9.7%.
It has been suggested that chromosomal duplication plays an important part in the evolution of trioecy.
From the trial's transcript: The prosecution has failed to prove with the requisite certainty the participation of Lebensborn, and the defendants connected there with in the kidnapping programme conducted by the Nazis.
After having difficulty becoming pregnant, her mother sought help from Mortimer and eventually became pregnant in 1980.
Safe sex and birth control There are a variety of safe sex methods that are practiced by heterosexual and same-sex couples, including non-penetrative sex acts, and heterosexual couples may use oral or anal sex (or both) as a means of birth control.
Unsurprisingly, high first-birth ages and high rates of birth postponement accompany low and lowest-low fertility.
Legal specifics The jus trium liberorum was a reward gained by compliance with the leges Iulia and Papia Poppea.
The outcome from using cryopreserved embryos has uniformly been positive with no increase in birth defects or development abnormalities, also between fresh versus frozen eggs used for intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI).
He took his BA degree from Mississippi College in 1933 with special distinction; Doctor of Science from Mississippi College in 1966; Master of Science of the Fellow from the University of New Mexico in 1933–1934; he received his Ph.D.
The term covers a wide variety of situations and degrees of economic, social, and physical coercion.
The Church of Euthanasia is also notorious for its conflicts with anti-abortion Christian activists.
Fertiloscopy, a relatively new surgical technique used for early diagnosis (and immediate treatment).
Prolonged time in the plateau phase without progression to the orgasmic phase may result in sexual frustration.
If the OHSS develops within an IVF protocol, it can be prudent to postpone transfer of the pre-embryos since establishment of pregnancy can lengthen the recovery time or contribute to a more severe course.
Increased levels of salinity in drying vegetation cause females to experience a reproductive hiatus.
DNA testing Due to the advent of genetic genealogy and DNA databases, even sperm donors who have not initiated contact through a registry are now increasingly being traced by their offspring.
Stewart Wallace, the author of "The Canadian Immigration Policy," endorsed the idea of race suicide.
An R0 of one means that each generation of mothers is having exactly enough daughters to replace themselves in the population.
Martins da Silva's work on male infertility was motivated by the unexplained decrease in male fertility in the late 20th and early 21st centuries.
Whilst based in Berlin, Turville-Petre was an active member of the Scientific-Humanitarian Committee, which campaigned for gay legal reform and tolerance, and attended the Second Congress in Copenhagen in 1928.
Vegetation myths have structural resemblances to certain creation myths in which parts of a primordial being's body generate aspects of the cosmos, such as the Norse myth of Ymir.
Indeed, it is considered impossible to cease reproduction based on social factors, and fecundity tends to rise after a brief decline.
"The American Fertility Association Brings Fertility Education to San Francisco or Parent Hopefuls - Straight and Gay".
Seeds generated by apomixis are a means of asexual reproduction, involving the formation and dispersal of seeds that do not originate from the fertilization of the embryos.
Reports from July 1899 suggest that he had eloped with a young woman from Reading, Pennsylvania, and had joined in the Klondike Gold Rush.
In human semen extenders, antibiotics are required for regulatory reasons, so their use is almost universal in clinics, even though antibiotics can be detrimental to sperm.
Ala's messenger and living agent on earth is the python (Igbo: éké), which is especially revered in many Igbo communities.
Illustrations on south-Italian vases make use of the calathus as a symbol of a future marital relationship.
Snails, for example, cannot reproduce successfully in an environment low in calcium, no matter how much food there is because they need this mineral for shell growth.
As of 2019, the Prelude Fertility Network of clinics included 23 fertility practices and 36 locations in the U.S.
Smoking: There is limited research that directly looks at the association of cigarette smoking and RPL.
The Slut Walk movement has embraced the slut-shame label and has engaged in an act of resignification.
Some research suggests increased risks for health problems for children of older fathers, but no clear association has been proven.
Ionescu still held a deputy's seat at Roman in 1884, returning to Chamber for a final term in the October 1888 election, but at Iași.
The newest and certainly most understandable model of this necklace is called "Baby Necklace", since the beads of the days of highest fertility have the shape of a baby.
Another large group of flowering plants is the Asteraceae or sunflower family with close to 22,000 species, which also have highly modified inflorescences composed of many individual flowers called florets.
First, the female must take a fertility medication clomiphene to stimulate egg production in the ovaries.
Products include a range of daily, two-week and monthly disposable contact lenses, and other spherical, toric and multifocal lenses for astigmatism, nearsightedness and farsightedness, and presbyopia.
Injectables have been formulated for daily, monthly, and quarterly use, and implants are available that can last from one month to a year.
Therefore, ovarian culture systems have become increasingly widely used in reproductive biology and toxicology.
People born from anonymous or ID release sperm or egg donation are able to find half-siblings conceived using the same gamete donor online through the Donor Sibling Registry or by using commercially available DNA test kits.
Three studies conducted between 2015 and 2018 indicate a large fraction (~80%) of women without a high school diploma or local equivalent in the US are unmarried at the time of their first birth.
Cadmium, being chemically similar to zinc, may replace zinc in the DNA polymerase, which plays a critical role in sperm production.
High dosages of testosterone (with levels of > 50 ng/dL) have a risk of masculinization (e.g., acne, hair growth, voice changes) with long-term therapy in women.
The display of the strength of character allows the abstainer to set an example for those not able to contain their "base urges".
Seminal fluid contains several proteins that interact with epithelial cells of the cervix and uterus, inducing active gestational immune tolerance.
However, some researchers argue that this assortative mating is caused purely by population stratification (the fact that people are more likely to marry within ethnic subgroups such as Swedish-Americans).
The 1990s was a difficult transition period, and it is during this period that the number of street children was very high.
Thus, as explained by the German historian Gisela Bock, who was involved with the first historians to highlight this issue, by asking women during the Nazi era.
Although the clinic helped few patients in 1921 'the year was one of the most important in the whole history of birth control simply because of their very existence'.
Clinics apply a number of diagnosis tests and sometimes very advanced medical treatments to achieve conceptions and pregnancies.
Decreased HIV transmission Sperm washing can be used to decrease the risk of HIV transmission in HIV-positive males, because the infection is carried by the seminal fluid rather than the sperm.
Governmental organizations ranking lists The CIA ranking list is sourced from the CIA World Factbook for the most recent year unless otherwise specified.
As well as the higher efficiency of NHEJ making inadvertent knockouts likely, CRISPR can introduce DSBs to unintended parts of the genome, called off-target effects.
Historically, there has been a swing from the sexually liberal end of the Industrial Revolution to the chaste values of the early Victorian period.
During the course of his studies, he noticed that cervical mucus changed in a predictable pattern through the course of a woman's cycle.
No strong correlation has been found between hamster egg penetration rates and the various semen parameters and the role of the hamster egg penetration test in the investigation of the causes of infertility should be evaluated further.
Other research published in 2023 has linked the change in diet associated with industrialisation, termed the nutrition transition, to declining sperm counts, estimating that the transition from an unprocessed to modern processed diet may account for up to 30 percent of the decline in sperm counts.
The term was part of a 2006 controversy in the heavily gay resort town of Provincetown, Massachusetts, when petitioners against same-sex marriage whose identities were published, complained of having been called "breeders".
FISH is often used when screening for chromosomal abnormalities such as aneuploidy, making it a useful tool when screening for disorders such as Down syndrome.
He had three wives: Nalwaŋga, with whom he had two children (Lwaŋga and Musozi); Nadjemba, who also had two children (Buguŋgu and Kisituka) with him; and Naku, who bore three of his children (Kaumpuli, Nairuma, and Nanziri).
The median age is a more precise representation of when the majority of people marry; for most reporting sources, however, only the average age at marriage is reported.
Female residents of Toronto, Ontario, Canada, competed to produce the most babies in order to qualify for an unusual bequest in a will.
With the use of chimeras, it was found that hemorrhaging was less likely to occur, and "postnatal tissue-specific differential growth" occurred.
Some species flower gregariously in certain years but do not die following the mass flowering, and are therefore not plietesial.
The resultant 'sex-sorted' spermatozoa are then able to be used in conjunction with other assisted reproductive technologies such as artificial insemination or in-vitro fertilization (IVF) to produce offspring of the desired sex - in farming animals but also in human medical practice.
Ugajin is represented both as a male and a female, and is often depicted with the body of a snake and the head of a bearded man, for the masculine variant, or the head of a woman, for the female variant.
Histotrophic ("tissue eating") viviparity: The zygotes develop in the female's oviducts, but she provides no direct nutrition.
Research suggests androgens, such as testosterone, are not sufficient by themselves to prompt sexual motivation in females.
Red blood cells Megaloblastic red blood cells are produced early in development, which become normoblastic near term.
Honors and press coverage Bedsider has received awards for its design and layout, and acceptance by media outlets such as the Associated Press and CNN.
History On November 10, 2011, the Ad Council launched a major marketing campaign in support of the Bedsider program.
"Reduced gap junctional communication is associated with the lethal condition characteristic of DDK mouse eggs fertilized by foreign sperm" (PDF).
For example, annexin V staining followed by MACS can significantly improve pregnancy rates in couples with previous assisted reproduction failure.
The site, which measures roughly 60 by 70 feet (18 m × 21 m), is now "crammed with carved" wooden penis statues, which are said to possess special cosmic powers and endow good fortune and fertility on anybody coming into contact with them.
Despite the discrepancy between preferred child bearing and natural fertility, women in Africa have reported they don't use any form of contraception to prevent pregnancies.
Fertility deities A fertility deity is a god or goddess in mythology associated with fertility, pregnancy, and birth.
The obliging server takes the traveler to see the train tracks at the east end of town where the expresses to Miami come barreling through.
Ovarian tissue cryopreservation can be performed on prepubertal girls at risk for premature ovarian failure, and this procedure is as feasible and safe as comparable operative procedures in children.
About three-fourths of these were using female sterilization, which is by far the most prevalent birth-control method in India.
Bangkok Babylon: The Real-Life Exploits of Bangkok's Legendary Expatriates are Often Stranger Than Fiction.
Once the extraction is done, the sample is analyzed in the microscope to select and carry out the oocyte decumulation, a process where the granulosa cells surrounding the oocyte are removed.
The terms safer sex and protected sex are sometimes preferred, to indicate that even highly effective prevention practices do not completely eliminate all possible risks.
The third method of DNA transfer is conjugation, in which a plasmid mediates transfer through direct cell contact between cells.
Her symbols were lions, doves & the 8-pointed star, wife of Dumuzid Turco-Mongol Umay, goddess of fertility and reproduction, believed to have saved two children (one boy and one girl) from a massacre.
According to the Academy of Obstetrics and Gynecology, the risk for Down syndrome increases proportionally to maternal age.
In 1989, the oldest decreței would have been 22 years old, in the general age range of most revolutionaries.
According to SCImago Journal Rank, its review journal Human Reproduction Update was the highest ranking journal in obstetrics and gynecology in 2008.
See also Surrogacy legal issues Surrogacy laws in the United States References Further reading Chesler, Phyllis.
If the R0 is less than one, the reproductive performance of the population is below replacement level.
Some species, such as Tridax trilobata, Ehretia laevis, and Alectra thomsoni, can undergo different patterns of megasporogenesis and therefore different patterns of megagametogenesis.
Background The race was the product of a scheme by Charles Vance Millar (1853–1926), a Toronto lawyer, financier, and practical joker, who bequeathed the residue of his significant estate to the woman in Toronto who could produce the most children in the decade following his death.
Specialists in reproductive medicine usually undergo medical residency training in obstetrics and gynecology followed by medical fellowship training in reproductive endocrinology and infertility.
Jerome Kalman Sherman (August 14, 1925 – December 1, 2023) was an American biologist and credited as a founder of modern sperm banking and cryopreservation.
Another latex or silicone cone shaped attachment is placed on one end of the AV an held by a rubber band.
Males who have fathered large numbers of children through medical sperm donation are difficult to record.
Ansley Coale's Three Preconditions for Decline in Fertility asserts that increases in a society's income may increase its fertility, but only if three preconditions are met, summarized as "ready, willing and able".
After confronting Ereshkigal, her sister and ruler of the underworld, Inanna is killed, but an emissary from the gods administers potions to restore her to life.
"The Effects of Drugs And Alcohol on Fetal Development | LIVESTRONG.COM." LIVESTRONG.COM – Lose Weight & Get Fit with Diet, Nutrition & Fitness Tools | LIVESTRONG.COM.
Most of the symbols people associate with aboriginal art from this region like concentric circles, U shapes and wavy lines all come from earlier designs on tjurunga.
On the other hand, therapies with low risk of gonadotoxicity include plant derivatives such as vincristine and vinblastine, antibiotics such as bleomycin and dactinomycin and antimetabolites such as methotrexate, mercaptopurine and 5-fluoruracil.
Soups and broths made of meats and vegetables when available, were common meals for the Soviet peasant family.
Agonists with two substitutions include: leuprorelin, buserelin, histrelin, goserelin, and deslorelin.
The Implanon also has these negative side effects causing a considerable amount of vaginal bleeding irregularities, and amenorrhea in about 30–40% of its users during the following 90 days of starting use.
"Fertile window and biophysical biomarkers of cervical secretion in subfertile cycles: a look at biotechnology applied to NaProTechnology".
Female seasonal breeders will have one or more estrus cycles only when she is "in season" or fertile and receptive to mating.
Ten Ten-Vilu, along with Kai Kai-Vilu, were the children of powerful spirits Antu and Pien-Pillan (Antu, father of Ten-Ten, and Pien-Pillan, father of Kai Kai), but they were ambitious and desired the power of their parents.
Gynecologic ultrasonography is sometimes overused when it is used to screen for ovarian cancer in women who are not at risk for this cancer.
Regular physical examinations (including pap smears) help detect early signs of infections or abnormalities.
Oocytes (but not spermatocytes) then undergo a prolonged arrest at the end of diplotene, until meiosis resumes at the beginning of the menstrual cycle.
However, because flow cytometry-based sperm sorting often uses fluorescent dyes that often stain DNA, the safety of this technique in human reproductive medicine is a matter of scientific discussion.
The 2007 grand prize went to Irina and Andrei Kartuzov, who received a UAZ-Patriot, a sport utility vehicle made in Ulyanovsk.
See also Honji suijaku List of Japanese deities Ukemochi Footnotes Notes References Bibliography Anzu, Motohiko (January 1972).
Cast Reception Box office According to Fox records the film required $6,425,000 in rentals to break even and by 11 December 1970 had made $7,175,000.
It is based on the premise that when regular life is disrupted adults will resort to sex as occupation without regard for family planning or protection.
Superfecundation most commonly happens within hours or days of the first instance of fertilization with ova released during the same cycle.
These regulations vary significantly across jurisdictions, and some countries do not have any regulations.
Countries and geographic regions that are currently experiencing the highest rates of declining populations include Western Europe, Japan, the Russian Federation, and South Korea.
Non-governmental organizations ranking lists The Population Reference Bureau (PRB) ranking list is based on the data of the 2024 World Population Data Sheet published online.
There is also a report that GnRH agonists used in the treatment of advanced prostate cancer may increase the risk of heart problems by 30%.
Judgmentalism is not a pejorative word compared to women, and slut-shaming may have a positive connotation with men depending on context and relationship.
Treatment Fertility may sometimes be restored by the removal of adhesions, depending on the severity of the initial trauma and other individual patient factors.
MUC16 has also been shown to disappear from the cell surfaces with the development of the pinopodes.
Five modes of reproduction can be differentiated in fish based on relations between the zygote(s) and parents: Ovuliparity: Fertilization of eggs is external; zygotes develop externally.
With perfect usage, 3.5 out of 100 people will get pregnant in the first year of use and, under typical use, 13.7 out of 100 people will get pregnant in the first year.
Africa Americas Asia Europe Oceania Note: the reported age for these countries is the median, not the mean (average).
Protists generally reproduce asexually under favorable environmental conditions, but tend to reproduce sexually under stressful conditions, such as starvation or heat shock.
Specific policies and initiatives may be needed to address the declining fertility rates in Spain and mitigate the impact of birth dearth.
Treatment Treatment depends on the cause of infertility, but may include counselling, fertility treatments, which include in vitro fertilization.
Recipients of embryos donated for research typically use them for clinical training, quality improvement research, or human embryonic stem cell research.
Still, after fertilization via intracytoplasmic sperm injection, the egg cell does not lose cell-surface expression of Juno, which suggests that Juno contributes to the prevention of polyspermy.
A variety of authors (in particular, Lesthaeghe) have argued that fertility postponement constitutes the "hallmark" of what has become known as the "second demographic transition".
Auditors from KPMG Peat Marwick investigated the clinic and found that almost $1 million in income at the clinic had not been reported.
But impersonal views lead to what Parfit calls the "repugnant conclusion", the idea that for any possible population with very high quality of life, there could be a much larger imaginable population whose existence would be better, even though its members have lives that are barely worth living.
Mills had previously co-starred with Kerr and Evans in The Chalk Garden (1964), which was also directed by Neame.
Thus, we associate studies on the subject during the 1980s mainly with perceptions that women were victims of "machismo" and a "misogynist" fascism.
This group were one-third less likely to develop aggressive prostate cancer when compared with men who ejaculated less than three times a week at this age.
Vitamin E helps counter oxidative stress, which is associated with sperm DNA damage and reduced sperm motility.
It is he who devised the modern form of the "Lexis diagram", a key tool for demonstrating the relationship between periods and cohorts.
See also Erogenous zone Foreplay Manual sex Oral sex Orgastic potency Sexual attraction References External links Human sexual response on Discovery health Human Sexual Response Cycles by Dr.
Examination of completed genomes indicates that uterine serpin genes do not exist in primates, mouse, rat, rabbit, marsupials, platypus, chicken or zebrafish.
While tjuringa were useful to the individual, the clan's collective fate was also considered to be tied up with the items.
The two most common invasive methods of extracting fetal DNA are chorionic villus sampling (CVS) and amniocentesis (AMC).
They regrouped eventually around the Romanian Orthodox Cathedral and started a protest march around the city, but again they were confronted by the security forces.
Cellular differentiation Following this, a narrow line of cells appears on the surface on the embryo.
Mice lacking Juno on the surface of their egg cells are infertile because their egg cells do not fuse with normal sperm, demonstrating Juno's essential role in the fertility of female mice.
These include asphyxia caused by airway obstruction, apnea, hypotension, and pulmonary aspiration of stomach contents.
Impairment of the repair of DNA double-strand breaks due to a BRCA1 defect leads to premature ovarian aging in both mice and humans.
He produced the world's first intra-cytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI with NASBA virus assay) virus free baby to an HIV discordant couple.
It does not rely on the presence of ovulation, but identifies patterns of potential and obvious infertility within the cycle.
During the 1930s, the development of the USSR was just about the only theme of art, literature and film.
Endometriosis seems to cause a challenge for TVOR that may have reflection on individual surgeon's performance rates for the procedure, independently from the diameter of a pre-existing ovarian endometrioma (OMA) or ovarian adhesions.
Sexually transmitted chlamydia and genital mycoplasma infections are preventable causes of infertility and negative pregnancy outcomes.
Aristophanes calls her Aphroditus, and Laevius says: Worshiping, then, the nurturing god Venus, whether she is male or female, just as the Moon is a nurturing goddess.
The party also stood for democratization, including radical land reform and a reshaping of the census suffrage, while its regional ethos resulted in support for federalism, then communalism.
Homopaternal superfecundation is a form of twinning where fertilization of two separate ova occurs as a result of two or more distinct instances of intercourse or insemination with the same male partner or donor, leading to fraternal twins.
As punishment, his father transformed him into a serpent, which would become the divinity of all that is the earth.
On the other hand, mating between individuals of genotypes which are too similar allows for the accumulation of harmful recessive alleles, which can decrease fitness.
As reported on 22 October 2021, the Government of Spain ordered all fines collected in relation to the first State of Alarm to be returned to citizens.
Concept Foundation products have been manufactured in 8 countries and are made available in more than 30 developing countries.
Several branches of heavy industry were founded, including the machine-tool, tractor, and automotive industries; large-tonnage shipbuilding; the manufacture of electric diesel locomotives; and the electronics and petrochemical industries.
A study conducted by the International Health Foundation polled 6630 women from European countries including Germany, Poland, Denmark, and Italy which had shown that there was a relatively variable use of contraception from country to country.
Because of her close association with kitsune, Inari is often believed to be a fox; though this belief is widespread, both Shinto and Buddhist priests discourage it.
To facilitate differentiation between tissue origins the ovary and the follicle should be from different genetic sources.
There is no data to indicate that suction D&C is less likely than sharp curettage to result in Asherman's.
In these plants, the embryo begins its existence attached to the inside of the archegonium on a parental gametophyte from which the egg cell was generated.
The faction ended its activities in November 2019 without dissolving officially; Der Flügel ended its activities officially in April 2020.
This, in turn, results in increased function and maintenance of the gonads and increased gonadal steroidogenesis of sex hormones such as androgens, estrogens, and progestogens.
Estradiol and antiandrogen therapy increase sexual desire and arousal in transgender women after a temporary decrease.
In November 2018, during a party event in Murcia, party leader Santiago Abascal defined his party as "antifascist, anti-Nazi and anti-communist".
According to the discipline of Ise Shintō (Watarai Shintō) originated by a priest at Geku named Watarai Ieyuki (度会家行), Toyouke-Ōmikami is recognized as the first divine being which appeared in this world.
This extended who has the right to be a parent to a man who would supposedly fill in the social role as a "father." There were now numerous ways to establish parental rights for both the mother and the father depending on if the child was born using a sperm donor or a surrogate.
The Method pioneered by the Billings was approved by both the Catholic Church and used by the World Health Organization.
Fertility J-curve Some scholars have recently questioned the assumption that economic development and fertility are correlated in a simple negative manner.
Mythology Divine brotherhood and arrival at Kege Moirang According to Meitei mythology, Oknarel and Thangnarel are metaphorically described as two faces of the same coin.
The intent of the jus trium liberorum has been interpreted by a few scholars as eugenic legislation, but the predominant view is that it was intended to increase birth rates among the senatorial order.
There are also separate, closed mailing lists for donors and recipients to discuss issues related to donation.
Without this successful binding, pregnancy failure is more likely to occur after interspecies embryo transmission.
In 2024, the fertility rate in England and Wales fell to 1.41, the lowest on record since records began in 1938.
This demographic pattern is considered to influence the stock of human capital and thus to contribute to Western Europe's development advantage.
Evidence of ovulation, the phase during which conception is most probable, is advertised to males among many non-human primates via swelling and redness of the genitalia.
Juno was initially found in murine oocytes, but its interaction with Izumo was subsequently found in other mammalian species, including humans.
Benatar's asymmetry argument for antinatalism is an argument based on the difference between harms and benefits viewed in two scenarios — when the person in question exists and when the person in question never exists.
In the depletion strategy, current generations have a slightly higher quality of life, but unchecked use of natural resources eventually leads to depletion, significantly degrading the welfare of future generations.
Data are drawn from the ONS dataset Births in England and Wales: birth registrations (2024 edition) and correspond to the Total fertility rate (TFR) by local authority of usual residence of the mother.
Because of various exemptions, fertility rate is about 1.7 children per woman, down from 5.9 in the 1960s.
Starting in the mid-1990s the technique was used to help HIV discordant couples conceive without passing the virus from the father to the mother or child.
Bedsider also offers a weekly column on sex, love, and life as well as a series of animated shorts that debunk myths about birth control.
Coitus interruptus Coitus interruptus is an example of a contraceptive behavior utilized in medieval times.
Antibiotics are almost universal in semen extenders, especially those being used for shipping or freezing semen.
Because the age distribution of people at first marriage is skewed with a longer tail towards older ages, the majority of people marry before the average age of first marriage.
History Formation On 3 February 2018 an 'Irexit' conference was held in the Royal Dublin Society in Dublin, advocating an Irish withdrawal from the European Union.
Human demography Human demography considers only human fecundity, at culturally varying rates, whereas population biology studies all organisms.
Literary sources report that, depending on the context, the calathus could contain wool, but also food (bread, cheese, milk, fruits and vegetables), small animals or flowers.
Upon the evidence submitted, the defendant Sollmann is found not guilty on counts one and two of the indictment.
In March 2018, the group called on AfD to formally reject any collaboration between the party and PEGIDA founder Lutz Bachmann.
The campaign, launched by the Danish travel agency Spies Rejser, is a tongue-in-cheek attempt to lure Danes to book holidays as a way to stop a purported population decline in Denmark.
This rate is similar to the gross reproduction rate but takes into account that some females will die before completing their childbearing years.
When private donors ship chilled semen outside of the formal regulatory environment, and fertilization is accomplished by allowing sperm to swim through the reproductive tract without the help of procedures such as IVF, then it is possible to achieve better results without antibiotics.
Chemotherapy When using chemotherapy treatments, the possibility of azoospermia is dependent on the dose, duration, number and type of drugs used; the male's fertility status before the treatment occurred is also taken into consideration.
The postwar period brought increased scholarly interest in the Mishaguji, and numerous theories emerged regarding their origins and relationship to Suwa Shrine.
38 tit.1 De Operis Libertorum); and libertae, who had four children, were released from the tutela of their patrons (Ulp.
Panaiveriyamman, named after panai, the Tamil name for the Palmyra palm, is an ancient fertility deity linked to this palm that is so important in Tamil culture.
Currently, the fertility is below replacement among those native born, and above replacement among immigrant families, most of whom come to the US from countries with higher fertility.
Although these tree deities are usually benevolent, there are also yakshinis with malevolent characteristics in Indian folklore.
More broadly, the Act engaged in a racialized operation of tightening the borders by setting national quotas for immigrants.
The gross abuse of matrimonial chastity, from the wrong notions which have possessed the world, degenerating even to whoredom.
On the other hand, venous thromboembolism rarely occurs unless a pregnancy is achieved, and is therefore usually not particularly relevant in the stage of oocyte retrieval.
The National Gamete Donation Service (NGDS), now known as the SEED Trust, raises awareness of the national shortage of sperm, egg and embryo donors in the UK.
When the ovarian follicles have reached a certain degree of development, induction of final oocyte maturation is performed, generally by an intramuscular or subcutaneous injection of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG).
The date commemorates the Battle of La Coronilla, which took place on 27 May 1812, during the Bolivian War of Independence, in what is now the city of Cochabamba.
Etymology Aphroditus (Ἀφρόδιτος) seems to be the male version of Aphrodite (Ἀφροδίτη), with the female thematic ending -ē (-η) exchanged for the male thematic ending -os (-ος), as paralleled e.g.
Procedures General With ART, the process of sexual intercourse is bypassed and fertilization of the oocytes occurs in the laboratory environment (i.e., in vitro fertilization).
There has been debate over its acceptability, inside and outside of LGBT circles, and whether it is a slur.
In females, these gonads are then connected by oviducts to an external opening, typically the cloaca or vagina.
Reception Nick Gillespie, editor of Reason magazine, reviewed the book on Bookforum, saying that he was convinced by Last's argument that birthrates were declining and there was not much that could be done about it, but found Last's account of the negative consequences exaggerated.
Fertility clinics are medical clinics that assist couples, and sometimes individuals, who want to become parents but for medical reasons have been unable to achieve this goal via the natural course.
The committee requested oral and written testimony from 100 organizations and individuals in Great Britain and worldwide.
Bioethical issues Gamete intrafallopian transfer is not technically in vitro fertilisation because with GIFT, fertilisation takes place inside the body, not on a petri dish.
Prelude Fertility is a network of fertility clinics in the United States that offer fertility services including in vitro fertilization (IVF), egg donation, genetic testing, and egg freezing.
These classes formed the backbone of the state, forming the empire's civil and military administration.
In February 2016, scientists at the Francis Crick Institute in London were given a license permitting them to edit human embryos using CRISPR to investigate early development.
The first application of this method in Latin America was held in Argentina on 13 May 1986, and was led by Dr.
Ala (also known as Ani, Ana, Ale, and Ali in varying Igbo dialects) is the female Alusi (deity) of the earth, morality, fertility, and creativity in Odinani.
Religious leaders' opinions on fertility treatments; for example, the Roman Catholic Church views infertility as a calling to adopt or to use natural treatments (medication, surgery, or cycle charting), and members must reject assisted reproductive technologies.
See also Sperm bank Sperm donor Egg donor Surrogacy Third party reproduction Embryo donation Artificial insemination IVF Reproductive medicine Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI) == References ==
Further chemicals may be added which separate the most active sperm in the sample, as well as extend or dilute the sample so that vials for a number of inseminations are produced.
Following the September 11 attacks, the church posted on its website a four-minute music video titled I Like to Watch, combining hardcore pornography with footage of the attacks and the collapse of the World Trade Center.
Virility is commonly associated with vigour, health, sturdiness, and constitution, especially in the fathering of children.
Because the couple was in search of an alternative natural contraceptive themselves, Berglund used data analysis to develop an algorithm designed to pinpoint her ovulation.
As a Nazi organization the German Large Family League was disbanded after Nazi Germany's defeat in World War II.
Albeit intrauterine insemination (IUI) might circumvent ASA present in the cervical mucus, in a study comprising 119 IUI, no live pregnancy was reported, suggesting involvement of other mechanisms of ASA.
There are many determinants of the intention to have children, including: The mother's preference of family size, which influences that of the children through early adulthood.
In July 2021, a three-child policy was introduced, as China's population is aging faster than almost any other country in modern history.
There is no sharp limit of development, age, or weight at which a fetus automatically becomes viable.
For these people (40% of the total), a choice is required between immediate IVF, or pelvic surgery followed by either expectant management, IUI or IVF as appropriate.
However, this does not mean that all women can be treated with assisted reproductive techniques, or that all women who are treated will achieve pregnancy.
This was levied at a rate of 2–5% of gross annual income on those under 55 who were liable for income tax; under a law of October 16, 1934, it was incorporated into the income tax beginning in January 1935.
Many of the WLSR's books and records were destroyed by the Nazis during a raid in Berlin on the institute in May 1933.
History In his 2006 State of the Nation address, Russian President Vladimir Putin called the demographic crisis the most urgent problem facing Russia and announced efforts to boost Russia's birth rate, including cash incentives to families that have more than one child.
Plant Based Oral Contraceptives Most of the indigenous peoples around the world, as well as from European antiquity all the way to the Middle Ages, contain linkages to point to the use of plant based oral contraceptives.
Some sperm banks may disallow sexually active gay men from donating sperm due to the population's increased risk of HIV and hepatitis B.
Societally-mediated complications such as financial hardship and depression are among the more common results.
This policy was central to his platform for the April 1889 by-election for Roman's 3rd College, which he won by a large margin against the socialist Vasile Morțun.
TTS proteins were also placed on various locations of semi in vivo pollinated pistils, and pollen tubes were observed to immediately extend toward the proteins.
"Short day" breeders cycle when the length of daylight shortens (fall) and are in anestrus in spring and summer.
From 2013 to 2019, Martins da Silva was a consultant gynaecologist and honorary senior lecturer at Ninewells Hospital at NHS Tayside in Dundee, Scotland.
For achieving pregnancy, no large clinical trials have been performed comparing ART and NaProTechnology.
Side effects Clinical studies have shown that the most common side effect is a slight reaction at the site of injection in the form of redness, and sometimes swelling.
Folk beliefs considered Mishaguji to be associated with fertility and the harvest, as well as healers of diseases like the common cold or pertussis.
Fertility symbols were used by Native Americans, the most common being a supernatural figure called Kokopelli, a fertility deity usually depicted as a hunchback, dancing flute player carrying a sack also shown with a large phallus.
Following several medical trials, the app became the first tech-based device to be certified for use as contraception in the European Union in February 2017 by the European inspection and certification organisation TÜV SÜD.
The Billingses issued a paper refuting the claim that the CrMS represents a standardization of the BOM.
The programme also accepted unmarried women who were either pregnant or had already given birth and were in need of aid, provided that both the woman and the father of the child were classified as "racially valuable".
Some parents resent being referred to as "breeders", and feel that the word unduly reduces the process of child-raising to animal husbandry.
If replacement level fertility is sustained over a sufficiently long period, each generation will exactly replace itself.
They all struck up the chant-verse: With fierce eyes, with glowing eyes, they seize the thumb; With fierce eyes, with glowing eyes, they rip off the nail.
Contraception is typically considered safer than pregnancy, especially in patients with medical conditions such as high blood pressure or diabetes.
In addition to expression in the endometrium, bovine uterine serpin is also expressed in the ovary (follicles, corpus luteum, and cumulus-oocyte complex) and by cotyledons Archived 2010-06-24 at the Wayback Machine of the placenta.
Support and advice The NGDS works within the UK only (England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland) to provide information, advice and support to people wishing to become donors and to people who need donors.
In prepubescent males, low doses (>1-3Gy) can cause short-term oligospermia or azoospermia, while higher doses (>2-3 Gy) can cause permanent azoospermia.
Landrum Brewer Shettles (November 21, 1909 – February 6, 2003) was an American obstetrician/gynecologist and a pioneer in the field of in vitro fertilization.
Initially, the loans required the bride to stop work immediately and not take another position during the life of the loan unless the husband was earning less than 125 RM per month.
Relationship to historical research These sacred relics were of high interest to early European anthropologists and sociologists, who were studying the nature of totemic religion and the sacred.
Greenwood, Seshadri, and Vandenbroucke ascribe the baby boom to the diffusion of new household appliances that led to reduction of costs of childbearing.
It has been proposed that there should be an upper limit on how long frozen sperm can be stored; however, a baby has been conceived in the United Kingdom using sperm frozen for 21 years and andrology experts believe sperm can be frozen indefinitely.
Regardless of whether anal penetration occurs by using a finger or the penis, the condom is the best barrier method to prevent transmission of STI.
to overcome issues of infertility), or through third party reproduction, notably by artificial insemination.
Insurance stipends, pregnancy leave, job security, light duty, child care services and payments for large families.
Between 60 and 85% of women, mostly with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), ovulate successfully in response to clomiphene with a cumulative pregnancy rate of 30 to 40%.
Examples of vegetation myths In the Mesopotamian tradition, during the journey of Inanna or Ishtar to the underworld, the earth becomes sterile, and neither humans nor animals are able to procreate.
An article in The Phoenix magazine, from October 2025, suggested that the matter remained contested between the Kelly and Leahy factions.
While many abiotic and biotic factors influence population control, humans are notably influential against animal populations.
A fetus or foetus (; pl.: fetus, foetus, or fetuses, foetuses) is the unborn offspring of a viviparous animal that develops from an embryo.
The party defends the liberalization of Spanish labour laws, lower taxation, and support for the self-employed.
family history) and recommended to test parental chromosomes rather than the products of conception.
In the mid-1990s he was accused of transferring ova harvested from women into other patients without proper consent at the University of California, Irvine's fertility clinic.
After two weeks, the pregnant woman is at risk of developing blood clotting problems, and labor induction is recommended at this point.
In 1980, Cooper Laboratories reorganized into three business groups: CooperVision, CooperCare and CooperBiomedical, with Cooper Medical Devices Corp.
Since males are equally invested in the offspring as the mother, both genders are expected to display mate choice, a phenomenon termed as mutual mate choice.
White-tailed deer may be controlled with contraceptives in suburban areas, where they are sometimes a nuisance.
These advancements in genome editing now reduce off-target effects, allowing for more controlled and predictable modifications.
Inari also appears in the form of a snake or dragon, and one folktale has Inari appear to a wicked man in the shape of a monstrous spider as a way of teaching him a lesson.
Wildlife contraceptives, sometimes referred to as wildlife fertility control, are contraceptives used to regulate the fertility of wild animals.
The "standard model" in general use in Europe in 2007 is three cycles of IUI in alternate menstrual cycles, followed by IVF if the IUI is unsuccessful.
background and medical information) about the birth parents will be shared with the adoptive parents.
Hyaluronic acid (HA) binding sites on the sperm plasma membrane are an indicator of sperm maturity (Huszar et al., 2003, Yudin et al.,1999).
This work established the technical foundation and legal-ethical framework surrounding the clinical use of human oocyte and embryo donation, a mainstream clinical practice, which has evolved over the past 25 years.
Legality and financial issues The legal status and cost/compensation models of egg donation vary significantly by country.
An ova bank, or cryobank, or egg cell bank is a facility that collects and stores human ova, mainly from ova donors, primarily for the purpose of achieving pregnancies of either the donor, at a later time (i.e.
This is a list of German states by fertility rate as of 2022 according to the Federal Statistical Office of Germany.
Brands include: Norplant, Jadelle (Norplant II), Implanon, Nexplanon, Sino-implant (II), Zarin, Femplant and Trust.
Lora, José María Murcia; Martínez, Oscar Martínez; Simoni, Jennifer; Calvo, Marian Martínez; Andrés, Alberto Falces de; Mejía, Jorge Enrique; Simoni, Diglio; Alcázar, Juan Luis (2022).
The spermatozoon fertilizes an ovum or various ova in the uterus or oviducts, and this results in one or multiple zygotes.
Estimates suggest that less than 2Gy of radiation could destroy half of a female’s immature oocytes.
In the UK, referrals are only given to women under 40 who have either undergone 12 cycles of artificial insemination, or have tried and failed to conceive for 2 years.
The temple, set within a walled compound and located on the west side of Cheju Castle, contains a phallic shrine which was visited by female pilgrims who came to worship it for its alleged fertility blessings.
It is safe and effective in people who have previously been pregnant, are breastfeeding, or have never been pregnant.
He was fined $50,000 by the judge in the case, required to repay more than $14,000 in restitution to insurance companies, and had to wear an electronic monitoring device.
In October 2011, seventeen pregnant women (thirty according to some sources) were found in Ihiala, Anambra, in a hospital of the Iheanyi Ezuma Foundation.
Election results Dáil Éireann European Parliament Local elections References External links Official website
Demography In demographic contexts, fertility refers to the actual production of offspring, rather than the physical capability to produce which is termed fecundity.
Noonan has written extensively on this topic and believed that the first, certain dated reference to onanism appeared in the ninth century.
Meanwhile, the story jumps to Henry, who is in a meeting with a company he is associated with known as Synthank.
also the verb sakuru/shakuru 'to dig/scoop up') the latent life force present in the soil or the female womb.
However, due to extreme poverty, lack of access to birth control, and restrictive abortion laws, many women still resort to clandestine abortion providers for unintended pregnancy, resulting in about 3% obtaining unsafe abortions each year.
It is usually used in the sense of stimulation of the development of ovarian follicles to reverse anovulation or oligoovulation.
Side effects Rarely, the device may migrate out of its typical location under the skin of the upper arm.
See also Age of consent List of countries by marriage and divorce rates Marriageable age Notes References External links United Nations World Marriage Patterns 2000 (archived from the original on 25 December 2003) Age at first marriage: interactive data visualizations
On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 93% based on 106 reviews, with an average rating of 7.6/10.
In cycles followed by oocyte donation, use of GnRH agonists instead of hCG decreases the risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome with no evidence of a difference in live birth rate.
See also Chilota mythology Mapuche mythology References Alberto Trivero (1999), Trentrenfilú, (in Spanish).
In 1953, he began work on a method of natural family planning, involving observation of several indicators of fertility and infertility, gradually focusing on the changes to cervical mucus patterns of sensation.
Several alternative transcription and names are attributed to this goddess including Toyouke-Okami, Toyouke-Ōmikami, Toyoukebime no kami (豊受気媛神), Toyuuke no kami (登由宇気神), Toyouka no Menokami (止与宇可乃売神), Toyuke no Ōkami (等由気太神), and Toyohirume (とよひるめ).
It is already clearly stated in the Talmud tractate Niddah, that a woman only becomes pregnant in specific periods in the month, which seemingly refers to ovulation.
In 2006, Shepherd Medical Company received FDA approval for a clinical trial of its non-hormonal implant called an intra vas device (IVD), which consists of two plugs that block sperm flow in the vas deferens.
However, experts said the new study was too small and there were too many variables that were too difficult to sort out, for a clear conclusion to be drawn.
The gross reproduction rate is similar to the net reproduction rate (NRR), the average number of daughters a woman would have if she survived her lifetime subject to the age-specific fertility rate and mortality rate throughout that period.
This technique is also used in transvaginal oocyte retrieval to obtain human eggs (oocytes) through sonographic directed transvaginal puncture of ovarian follicles in IVF.
A dibling, a portmanteau of donor sibling, or donor-conceived sibling, or donor-sperm sibling, is one of two or more individuals who are biologically connected through donated eggs or sperm.
Besides these eugenic activities aimed at classifying the population and improving its health, the Foundation also supported the 11 October 1946 law instituting occupational medicine, enacted by the Provisional Government of the French Republic (GPRF) after the Liberation.
Sperm may be washed by density gradient centrifugation or by a "direct swim-up" technique that does not involve centrifugation.
It has been described by commentators as being founded as a counterweight and a response to the more hardline Der Flügel wing of the AfD.
Also, murine embryos of Ryukyu mouse (Mus caroli) will survive to term inside the uterus of a house mouse (Mus musculus) only if enveloped in Mus musculus trophoblast cells.
Plietesials are plants that grow for a number of years, flower gregariously (synchronously), set seed and then die.
They were also given psychiatric medication to treat their behaviors, or they were tied to their beds to prevent self-harm.
Ganirelix prevents ovulation until it is triggered by injecting human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG).
Europe's population is forecast to decline by nearly 70 million people by 2050, as the total fertility rate has remained perpetually below the replacement rate.
Evolution The uterine serpins are novel with respect to other serpins by virtue of their limited distribution among mammals.
This pattern is characterized by cell plate formation after meiosis 1 & 2, which results in four one-nucleate megaspores, of which three degenerate.
It is used in instances where the fertility problem relates to sperm dysfunction, and where the couple has idiopathic (unknown cause) infertility.
In 2006, university officials admitted to the Los Angeles Times that they had not notified at least 20 women whose eggs were allegedly used by Asch and his colleagues.
As such its goal became the preservation and promotion of the German hereditarily healthy Aryan family ("Erhaltung und Förderung der deutschen, erbgesunden, arischen Familie").
An example is the golden spiny mouse where changes in dietary salt in its desert habitat due to rainfall appear to cue reproductive function.
As examples, the female swordtail and guppy will both give birth to anywhere from 20 to 100 live young after a gestation period of four to six weeks, and mollies will produce a brood of 20 to 60 live young after a gestation of six to 10 weeks.
However, owing to the unreliability of these tests and the advancement of computer tests for the screening of sperm, tests by sperm banks using these methods largely fell out of favour during the 1990s.
Prostacyclin 1 can activate peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor 6 to increase blastocyst hatching, and cannabinoids that can also act to regulate implantation and development.
However, transgender people may be subjected to discrimination, which can include a variety of negative social, emotional, and medical experiences, as pregnancy is regarded as an exclusively female activity.
She married Douglas Barton, a doctor who was based in Dera Ismail Khan, a city in what was then British India's Northwest Frontier Province, and is now Khyber Pakhtunkhwa in Pakistan.
However, a negative result on the hamster test correlates with a lower probability of the man's partner becoming pregnant.
Stage two of this process fueled a steady reduction in mortality rates due to improvements in public sanitation, personal hygiene and the food supply, which reduced the number of famines.
Generally, the main drawback of all tests used for the diagnosis of ASA is a heterogeneity of data presented in available studies, caused by lack of method standardisation, various semen preparations, and inconsistent cut-off values.
When war appeared inevitable, dramas, such as Alexander Nevsky (1938) were written to prepare the population; these were withdrawn after the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, but returned to circulation after the war began.
See also Opportunistic breeder Seasonal breeder References Attribution This article incorporates text by Dr Joe Kiff available under the CC BY-SA 3.0 license.
For pre-pubescent boys, sperm can be obtained through testicular aspiration or electrostimulation and then stored for future use.
South Korea South Korea is experiencing a decline in its population, aligning with the concept of birth dearth.
At the laboratory level this is rare, as most healthcare providers will not test the semen and sperm unless specifically requested or there is a strong suspicion of a pathology in one of these areas discovered during the medical history or during the physical examination.
The phallic stone is made from granite, quite small in size, and white, and was reportedly found in a nearby field by a farmer.
With tubal ligation, complications occur in 1 to 2 percent of procedures with serious complications usually due to the anesthesia.
There are surgical methods that can be used as treatment however these are now performed less frequently due to the increasing success of the less invasive techniques.
A silver calathus with a golden rim is mentioned by Homer as belonging to Helen, this one even ran on wheels.
By 2018, child mortality had declined further to 0.6% and the TFR declined to 1.9, below replacement level.
By the end of 1938, 1,121,000 marriage loans had been extended, 800,000 under the original conditions of requiring the bride to stop work, and a "baby boom" had resulted in the forgiveness of 980,000.
Reception Media appearances and interviews Longman appeared in a National Public Radio program Talk of the Nation debating Peter Kostmayer about the thesis of his book.
Together with André Van Steirteghem and other colleagues from the Center he developed the Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI) technique, in which a single sperm is injected into an egg-cell.
Male virility Evidence shows that increased male age is associated with a decline in semen volume, sperm motility, and sperm morphology.
These regimens attack rapidly dividing cells in the body, including healthy cells like sperm and those belonging to the ovarian follicle (egg).
It is considered the first viable and a still leading explanation for mid-twentieth century baby booms.
In the essay, he further referred to contraception as "the diabolical practice of attempting to prevent childbearing by physical preparations." George Washington is known to have owned the book, as noted in the biography by Chernow.
Sexual dissatisfaction due to the lack of sexual intercourse is associated with increased risk of divorce and relationship dissolution, especially for men.
Paul Devroey (co-)authored over 440 international peer reviewed articles, some of which have over 1000 citations, and three books.
A US study concluded that donating an embryo is approximately twice as cost-effective as oocyte donation in terms of cost per live birth, with a cost of $22,000 per live delivery compared to $41,000 for oocyte donation.
Prime Minister Benito Mussolini, often known as Il Duce, envisioned an Italian Empire to rival that of the Romans, and in order to carry out this objective, foresaw the need to increase the population.
It was created in the first quarter of the 20th century by Thai businessman Nai Lert (1872–1945), who found a spirit house floating in the klong and placed it on the bank of his property.
This cohesion is later broken by the enzyme separase, allowing the chiasmata to be broken and homologous chromosomes to segregate in a normal way.
The cells on the exterior of the blastocyst begin excreting an enzyme which erodes epithelial uterine lining and creates a site for implantation.
While male gametes (sperm) are continuously produced throughout life, the female ovarian reserve is fully formed during early development.
Due to this odd occurrence, the people considered Mukasa as a superhuman being, and in his honor, built him a house.
Another factor is due to the shortage of food stocks during winter as the insects are being driven away and as the result, bat hibernate in pregnant condition.
Some children in the orphanages were infected with HIV/AIDS due to the practice of using unsterilised instruments.
Another lost fudoki, Settsu no Kuni Fudoki (摂津国風土記), tells that Toyouka no Menokami (止与宇可乃売神) was on the mountain of Inakuradake in Settsu Province for a short time.
Some have noted the apparent similarity of the Black Stone and its silver frame to the external female genitalia.
Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) are infections spread by sexual activity, usually by vaginal intercourse, anal sex, oral sex, and rarely manual sex.
Reichsbund der Kinderreichen (RDK or RdK), Reich's Union of Large Families or literally: Reich's League of those wealthy in children, was one of the most important pronatalist groups founded in Germany after World War I.
Aphroditus is the same as the later god Hermaphroditos, whose name derives from his being regarded as the son of Aphrodite and Hermes.
The major parts of the oocyte that are accessed for quality in terms of morphological characteristics are the cumulus cells, zona pellucida, polar body, perivitelline space, and cytoplasm; These are the main parts of the oocyte and are usually assessed by conventional microscopy.
Despite the fact that Richard and Rachel tell Cynthia they will not go through with the donation without her consent, they decide to begin the pre-screening process.
Gonadotropin-releasing hormone must be delivered in a pulsatile fashion to imitate the random secretion of the hypothalamus in order to stimulate the pituitary into secreting luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone.
During that same year the company acquired EnsEyers, a supplier of orthokeratology and scleral contact lenses.
Limiting numbers of sexual partners, particularly casual sexual partners, or restricting sexual activity to those who know and share their STI status, can also reduce STI risks.
A principal reason for this view was that mating and sex appeared to be lacking in certain pathogenic protists whose ancestors branched off early from the eukaryotic family tree.
The development of competence in nature is usually associated with stressful environmental conditions, and seems to be an adaptation for facilitating repair of DNA damage in recipient cells.
Types of reproduction and pregnancy Pregnancy has been traditionally defined as the period during which developing embryos are incubated in the body after egg-sperm union.
The 'Give a Toss' campaign generated complaints but the Trust received over 500 enquiries from prospective donors over three months.
Private Life is a 2018 American comedy-drama film written and directed by Tamara Jenkins and starring Paul Giamatti and Kathryn Hahn, with Kayli Carter, Molly Shannon, John Carroll Lynch, Desmin Borges, and Denis O'Hare in supporting roles.
This response suggests that hyperactivation serves as method to quickly guide sperm through chemo-attractant gradient.
A defect in any of these sperm structures may result in infertility that will not be detected by semen analysis.
Harley Street sexologist, Norman Haire as secretary and Dora Russell as treasurer, jointly organized the event.
By 1937, full employment had been achieved, and women workers were needed, so the requirement was removed and the loan made available to all young people of documented Aryan ancestry and genetic fitness.
Petru Groza of the Ploughmen's Front, a party closely associated with the Communists, became prime minister.
The eggs will be harvested approximately 36 hours later, mixed with the man's sperm, and placed back into the woman's fallopian tubes using a laparoscope.
Pruritic urticarial papules and plaques of pregnancy (PUPPP), a skin disease that develops around the 32nd week.
As the goddess of morality, Ala is involved in judging human actions and is in charge of Igbo law and customs known as omenala.
As of 2022, RISUG was awaiting approval from the Drug Controller General of India for mass production.
He described a number of pessaries, including elephant dung, cabbages and pitch, used alone or in combination.
Though there is no FDA indication for the use of clomiphene in male infertility, it has been prescribed since the 1960s.
Rh factor testing, also known as Rhesus factor testing, is the procedure of determining the Rhesus D status of an individual (see Rh blood group system).
The doctor will monitor the growth of the ovarian follicles, and once they are mature, the woman will receive an injection containing human chorionic gonadotropins (HCG or hCG).
Yeast reproduces asexually through a process called budding where a daughter cell grows out of the parent cell and receives its own nucleus before splitting.
This may give rise to a number of different types of fraud involving insurance, unnecessary procedures, theft of eggs, and other issues related to fertility treatment.
What to Expect When No One's Expecting: America's Coming Demographic Disaster is a book by Jonathan V.
However, testosterone has been found to be the most important hormone that is responsible for both the initiation and the maintenance of spermatogenesis.
Typically, high birth rates are associated with health problems, low life expectancy, low living standards, low social status for women and low educational levels.
Fertility awareness can also be used to aid in diagnosing known gynecological problems such as infertility.
Many non-living substances such as fluids, hormones, and pheromones are also important accessories to the reproductive system.
Many famous Romans were awarded the jus trium liberorum including Suetonius through a personal favor from Trajan to Pliny the Younger, Martial by Domitian in reward to Martial's flattery, and to Livia in response of the death of Drusus in 9 BC.
St Ters of Antwerp is one of the names given to the statue of a phallic saint, supposedly worshiped for promoting fertility.
Infertility can be treated with reproductive technologies, which can be discussed with a qualified fertility specialist such as a reproductive endocrinologist.
Durkheim concluded that "as the rites, and especially those which are periodical, demand nothing more of nature than that it follow its ordinary course, it is not surprising that it should generally have the air of obeying them".
This includes humans and apes (bonobos, chimpanzees, gorillas, orangutans, and gibbons), who can have a child at any time of year.
The 2023 novel Prize Women by Caroline Lea is a fictionalized account of the Stork Derby, and includes several real-life figures as characters.
The non-identity problem (also called the paradox of future individuals) is a problem in population ethics concerning actions that affect the existence, identity, or well-being of future people.
The baby boom in Ireland began during the Emergency declared in the country during the Second World War.
In 2024, approximately 90% of fertility clinics participated, though the results are susceptible to manipulation by cherry picking couples with a higher chance of conception.
It is important to note that elimination of testosterone in primates does not reduce the ability to copulate; rather, it reduces the motivation to copulate.
In parts of the United States, does are shot with darts containing a contraceptive vaccine, rendering them temporarily infertile.
1300 instead of 1200 is used on the basis that the length of the average menstrual cycle is 28 days, or 13 cycles per year Usage The Pearl Index is sometimes used as a statistical estimation of the number of unintended pregnancies in 100 woman-years of exposure (e.g.
Supporting basic asymmetries Benatar explains the main asymmetry using four other asymmetries that he considers quite plausible: The asymmetry of procreational duties: we have a moral obligation not to create unhappy people and we have no moral obligation to create happy people.
Decree 770 was a decree of the communist government of Romanian dictator Nicolae Ceaușescu, signed in 1967.
This imagery of black femininity is then streamlined into the media to be absorbed by the public, therein altering the public's perception of both the standard black female body and the behaviors of black women in general.
Hystero foam sonography (HyFoSy) An alternative to saline and Echovist, the galactose solution used to enhance visualization of anatomic features via ultrasound in HyCoSy, was needed because of limitations and high costs.
The term is also used by antinatalists to pejoratively refer to anyone who has procreated, an act which they consider immoral.
Concern regarding relationship quality and attachment security in egg donor families is understandable and typically stems from the absence of genetic material shared between the mother and child.
49, brochure of the German Cancer Aid, online Archived 2013-05-16 at the Wayback Machine (PDF-file; 1,44 MB) (in German language) External links FertiPROTEKT website Fertilitätserhaltung bei Leukämiepatienten.
This is so he can be led and his handler can be a safe distance away, yet have some control over the animal.
Examples of tree deities The Yakshis or Yakshinis (Sanskrit: याक्षिणि), mythical maiden deities of Hindu, Buddhist, and Jain mythology are closely associated with trees, especially the ashoka tree and the sal tree.
According to the agreement, Mary Beth Whitehead would be inseminated with William Stern's sperm (making her a traditional, as opposed to gestational, surrogate), bring the pregnancy to term, and relinquish her parental rights in favor of William's wife, Elizabeth.
The etonogestrel implant, also called the contraceptive implant, or known by trade names Nexplanon or Implanon is one type of progestin-releasing birth control device implanted under the skin.
An efficacy trial found that CycleBeads was more than 95% effective at preventing pregnancy with correct use and approximately 88% effective with typical use among women who reported recent cycles of 26–32 days.
It is reasonable to assume from these data that increasing male involvement as contraceptive users will further improve gender equity.
Numbers in bold and italics are likely to be legendary or inexact, some of them having been recorded before the 19th century.
Thus Salpingoscopy can only be carried out if a second laparoscope is inserted in a different place, requiring two complete sets of equipment.
The oldest condoms discovered to date were recovered in the ruins of Dudley Castle in England, and are dated back to 1640.
Important abiotic factors affecting population growth include: Temperature – Higher temperatures speed up Enzyme catalyzed reactions and increase growth.
Altricial mammals needs less time to gestate compare to the precocial (well-developed neonate) mammal.
Oscar Hertwig (1876), in Germany, described the fusion of nuclei of spermatozoa and of ova of sea urchins.
The status of tree deities varies from that of a local fairy, ghost, sprite or nymph, to that of a goddess.
The injection was administered every 8 weeks, and it effectively and reversibly suppressed sperm production in at least 95% of the participants.
The partnership made Prelude the largest fertility services provider in the U.S and added Aspire Fertility clinics to the Prelude Network.
This is due to the fact that all of the mentioned examinations are expensive and the agencies must first confirm that a match is possible or guaranteed before investing in the process.
If income is high relative to aspirations and jobs are plentiful, it will be easier to marry young and have more children and still match that standard of living.
Copulation is the union of the sex organs of two sexually reproducing animals for insemination and subsequent internal fertilization.
Heterosporous plants include seed plants (gymnosperms and flowering plants), water ferns (Salviniales), spikemosses (Selaginellaceae) and quillworts (Isoetaceae).
400s AD), Saturnalia 3.8.2 There's also a statue of Venus on Cyprus, that's bearded, shaped and dressed like a woman, with scepter and male genitals, and they conceive her as both male and female.
These proteins appear to be inactive protease inhibitors and may function during pregnancy to regulate immune function or participate in transplacental transport.
See also List of S&P 400 companies References External links Business data for The Cooper Companies, Inc.:
In the 1931 September elections, 3 million women voted for NSDAP candidates, almost half of the total of 6.5 million votes cast for the NSDAP." In terms of voting patterns however, a higher proportion of male voters supported the Nazi party compared to female voters.
Supraphysiologic production of VEGF from many follicles under the prolonged effect of hCG appears to be the specific key process underlying OHSS.
This term was likewise deployed to proliferate the ideology of eugenics among the international public throughout the 20th century.
Other seed components include the endosperm, which is tissue rich in nutrients that will help support the growing plant embryo, and the seed coat, which is a protective outer covering.
Services POPLINE had both basic and advanced searches and offered customized searches provided on request to persons or institutions in developing countries.
Ana Garner and Angela Michel have found that in these discussions men often attach reproductive rights to moral and political matters, as part of an ongoing attempt to regulate human bodies.
Separately, reviewers and user feedback describe alerting based on unusual increases in activity (eg.
History On June 16, 2001, 16-year-old Zef Hemel along with collaborators Jeff Lewis, Corey Chapman, T.
In September 2010, i-Jet Media and Playdom announced that i-Jet Media would publish social games by Playdom in European social networks.
Moon Palace was the only place in the world where Mitron energy could be used legally, making it far more abundant than any other part of the world, and many people in the world wanted to live there.
Modeled after the traditional “public square” where townspeople would gather to exchange views, a digital public square provides a virtual platform for the exploration of issues and the sharing of ideas, creativity and opinions while developing solutions to a community's challenges.
Google allowed third parties to build their own Wave services (be it private or commercial) because it wanted the Wave protocol to replace the e-mail protocol.
The League is a social and dating mobile application launched in 2015 and available in several cities all over the world on iOS and Android.
The project describes itself as having a core of volunteers; some contributors have been paid for their work.
Because Betable possesses gambling licenses from the United Kingdom Gambling Commission that allow it to provide gambling services on another party's behalf, developers can enable betting within their games without applying for any licenses themselves.
The ability to like users' comments was added in June 2010, and the ability to react with one of five pre-defined emotions, including "Love", "Haha", "Wow", "Sad", or "Angry", was added in May 2017.
On the back of investments made into Club Nokia, Nokia launched a new service Preminet to its operators, designed to distribute certified Java- and Symbian-based mobile software to make cell-phone applications easier to buy, sell, and distribute.
The shortest distance between you and your customer." Get Satisfaction online communities can be a private and/or public place for customers to ask questions, submit an idea or complaint, or give praise.
Monilink Limited (stylized MONILINK) was the banking service operating in the United Kingdom that gave customers access to their financial information directly from their mobile phones.
The creation of a new standard for decentralized social networking was prompted by the complexity of OStatus, the most commonly used protocol at the time.
References External links Announcement of PlayNow arena Announcement of PlayNow plus Official PlayNow arena with movies website
Zeal – volunteer-built Web directory; it was introduced in 1999, acquired by LookSmart in 2000, and shut down in 2006.
The WordPress Mobile Pack was initially developed in 2009, by James Pearce, who is now running open source at Facebook, with the contribution of Terence Eden, a Mobile Product Manager at O2 (UK), and Andrea Trasatti part of Developer Relations, at the Samsung Strategy and Innovation Center.
In 2012, the company won the second round of Appsfuel HTML5 App Challenge and Mobile Web App of the Day Award from TheFWA.com.
On December 1, 2017, Style Jukebox discontinued their service with a very small post on their home page, and no further details were released.
Channels The vast majority of BreadTube content is in English, and most BreadTubers are American or British.
With Matt Bruck and Khinlei Myint-U, the team wrote a business plan and Agents Inc took second place in the 1995 MIT 10K student business plan competition.
History Rumors about the service began to surface around the internet in September 2008, whereas it was referred to as "Skymarket", and was to appear with the Windows Mobile 7 release.
Other media Anime An anime adaption of the game, titled as Slap-up Party: Arad Senki (スラップアップパーティ −アラド戦記−, Surappuappu Pāti -Arado Senki-; lit and titled in original Korean as Dungeon and Fighter: Slap-up Party (던전 앤 파이터 슬랩업 파티).
Collaborative software is a broad concept that overlaps considerably with computer-supported cooperative work (CSCW).
Alternative app stores use Android devices' "Unknown Sources" option to install APK files directly via the Android Package Manager.
Hatena Bookmark counts the number of users per specific URL, and so it is possible to see what bookmarks are popular among Hatena users.
History While being the main project within its lineage, GNU social originally began as a fork of StatusNet.
Dalilmasr – Egyptian online directory Google Directory – copy of DMOZ directory, with sites listed in PageRank order within each category.
Corcoran decided to create a more open marketplace for indie games in MoonScript, inspired by Bandcamp's model.
It's a fact, and a well-known fact I think, that the level of take-up of the Ultranet has been nothing like what was intended." An audit by the Victorian auditor general's office found "the Ultranet was poorly planned and implemented.
During September - November 2010 the company went through Startupbootcamp located in Copenhagen, Denmark.
Following the discontinuation of Zune hardware in 2011, the software program was put into maintenance mode.
The service was offered directly to consumers and SME:s, but also indirectly with a white label solution via partners such as telecom operators, ISP:s and large consumer brands.
DSNP can improve user data privacy and security by permitting fine-grained management of their personal information.
BBS: The WELL, GEnie, The Meta Network Academic: EIES, Usenet Webcomic: UserFriendly, Penny Arcade, Sluggy Freelance Virtual world/city: LucasFilm's Habitat, Second Life, Millsberry, Red Light Center, IMVU, Neopets, Roblox IM: ICQ, Yahoo!
In October 2022, Magpie Games announced that early access for Avatar Legends Nexus, Demiplane's digital toolset Avatar Legends: The Roleplaying Game, was launching that month.
As with other similar platforms, such as the Google Play and Mac App Store, Microsoft Store is curated, and apps must be certified for compatibility and content.
The like button is one of Facebook's social plug-ins, in which the button can be placed on third-party websites.
Thomas initially funded the company himself, with servers operating out of the basement of his home.
This is a list of notable social software: selected examples of social software products and services that facilitate a variety of forms of social human contact.
Creating 3D Posts There were four ways to get a 3D asset to appear in a Facebook Post: Drag and drop an asset into Facebook's Post composer and publish it.
See also Citizen journalist Mobile journalism Ushahidi References External links Wireless and the Future of the Newspaper Business
Players can create and customize their own 3D worlds and 3D content such as vehicles, mini-games, avatar clothing and gestures, and sell them for real world money.
This provides a positive and encouraging learning environment for students, especially students in a virtual classroom.
Founded in 2013, the company produces and distributes live shows (such as sports or music events) and video clips (such as pre-match warm-ups, behind-the-scene activities, and instant highlights).
while users can select a preference for the race of partners they'd like to meet, it's not a hard filter.
Under the plan, developers who carry out ad campaigns on DU Ad Platform will receive 100 percent of the revenues from those campaigns.
Social technology is also split between human-oriented technologies and artifact-oriented technologies.
See also Comparison of file hosting services Comparison of file synchronization software Comparison of online backup services Cloud storage Remote backup service References External links Syncplicity website Syncplicity Ad
This list is a comparison of web conferencing software available for Linux, macOS, and Windows platforms.
As of May 2023, the protocol was reported to have over 18 million registered users across its network.
Actor Dylan McDermott was introduced to WhoSay by his agent, as a way of easily posting content to Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr and even China's Tencent social network with relative ease.
The exact nature of this relationship changes according to the intention of the annotation, but the body is most frequently somehow "about" the target.
Originally developed by Facebook engineers after the 2011 Japanese tsunami, Safety Check for Workplace allows organizations to identify employees who may be affected by a crisis and send and monitor responses.
Users could access application descriptions, screenshots, user reviews and ratings, and download or purchase software directly on their devices.
Restaurants, cafes and bars can be filtered across multiple criteria: Wi-Fi, 24/7, playground, non-smoking, and more.
History In 2007, UNICEF Innovation used RapidSMS to develop U-Report, a platform that would allow anyone to publish real-time information and data analytics in SMS format without the need of a programmer.
Use on Facebook The like button is a feature of social networking service Facebook, where users can like content such as status updates, comments, photos and videos, links shared by friends, and advertisements.
Latterly, Monilink offered customers the chance to check their bank balance in real-time, view a mini statement detailing the last six transactions and add credit to up to five pay as you go phones.
Previously aligned with the promotion of ringtones, wallpapers, and SMS subscription services, mobile phone content advertising now applies to in-app ads, webpage ads, social media campaigns, video ads, push notifications, and content sponsored with creators.
Both brands of AlterGeo and Gvidi were given the highest possible index of AAA in the Russian Startup Rating, and top its IT section.
See also COVID-19 pandemic in Iran References External links https://shad.ir/ Archived 2021-07-28 at the Wayback Machine Official website
Technology In 2013, Vibes initiated the deployment of Wallet Manager, a platform enabling enterprises to develop and oversee mobile wallet campaigns utilizing Apple's Passbook and Google Wallet.
It claims to be able to publish customers' banners throughout the Internet (via several RTB ad exchanges) and display them on desktop and mobile devices within small geographic areas (the minimum radius is 500 meters).
The handheld features four lettered buttons (X, Y, A, B), a directional pad, and Start, Select, and Power buttons.
There are also massively multiplayer collectible card games: Alteil, Astral Masters and Astral Tournament.
LIBOX offered this service for free thanks to a patent pending combination of peer-to-peer, grid and distributed computing technologies.
While the Ultranet was designed with online safety as a priority, the lack of modern Web 2.0 tools forced users to embed content from other sources, somewhat undermining the safety and privacy priority.
iOS client Interfaces The communication between the Android client applications and the store is done using a XML file called info.xml.
Along with the announcement, they released the first official module for Dungeons & Dragons 5th edition, Lost Mine of Phandelver, on the Roll20 Marketplace; which was followed by other releases.
This is based on the results of the October 2022 Cross Web Mediascope study, implemented on the Android-only approach.
History The Amazon Appstore launched on March 22, 2011 and was made available in nearly 200 countries.
It was founded on January 31, 2007, by several people, including Lane Becker, Amy Muller, Thor Muller, and Jonathan Grubb.
Mobile content is any type of web hypertext and information content and electronic media which is viewed or used on mobile phones, like text, sound, ringtones, graphics, flash, discount offers, mobile games, movies, and GPS navigation.
The transfer of assets from LLC to NPO was completed in April 2011 and in May 2011, Simple Machines, LLC was dissolved.
According to the 2012 verdict of the Labour Court of Budapest, Unisys acted illegally and was ordered to pay unpaid wages and benefits, legal costs, and three months' average salary as compensation.
D2L Lumi In 2024, D2L launched D2L Lumi, a set of artificial intelligence-powered features to support building content, assessments, and activities.
Sony tried to leverage the Cybershot technology in a multimedia strategy, but it was too slow of a change.
A later review (under EMC ownership) found that Syncplicity might not be able to compete well with Dropbox and Sugarsync on price and storage, but has features, including security and availability, that might be attractive to business users.
Acquisition by Roll20 In June 2024, it was announced that the virtual tabletop (VTT) company Roll20 had acquired Demiplane.
Two days after it was launched in February 2023, Damus was removed from the Chinese version of the App Store per a directive from the Cyberspace Administration of China.
Lewis and Fung split off from the YaBB SE team to try a different approach for addressing the YaBB SE efficiency problems, security concerns, and to add new features.
Companies can respond to issues regarding their products or services; official responses are marked as official answers to separate them from other responses.
Organization Simple Machines Forum is an open-source discussion board software project of volunteers participating in various operating functions including development, customization, documentation, localization/translation, user support, and marketing.
Style Jukebox was a hi-fi high-resolution audio cloud music streaming and storage player for the Windows, iOS, Android and Windows Phone platforms.
The 2022 version contained more than 500 items, and raised US$216,000 for 431 creators even though it had a "pay what you want" option.
Cotter attributes that to "the community hosting a spectrum of beliefs, ranging from social democratic to Maoist".
Brendan Jordan hosted Club Q on April 29, 2020, where Big Freedia, Uffie, Aluna (of AlunaGeorge), Messer (Mitch Grassi), Casey MQ, Edge Slayer, and drag performers Junior Mint and Paris L'Hommie performed.
The fifth drop box is the “Nuclear Energy”, which when picked up recharges the Overdrive – a unique hull ability.
Results indicated that organizations still rely on outdated, standardized IT models, preventing them from benefitting from newer networked technologies.
Later, the community created a public facial recognition database to quickly find suspects in terabytes of footage.
Taiwanese BBS software Formosa BBS Formosa BBS established in October 1992 by Professor Nien-Hsing Chen of the National Sun Yat-sen University (NSYSU).
Samsung Mobile Applications, an app store powered by Handango launched at Mobile World Congress 2009 providing software for Windows Mobile, Symbian, and (from August) Java ME.
As of December 2025, the App Store hosts Absher (application), a stalkerware app by the Saudi government.
The rules of the game are based on real hockey rules with some variations due to the 2d nature of the game.
On the other hand, Mohammad Mehdi Nooripour and Majid Najafizadeh, Representatives of students and teachers of Iran thanked the Minister of Education for setting up this network at a meeting of Student Organization.
And we eventually got to this idea of a thumb going up with a number next to it, which, again, I know it sounds simple, but we’ve never seen that before." Digg allowed users to discover and share web content by submitting links and voting them up ("digg") or down ("bury").
Both the website and the mobile site include information on short film festivals that take place across Europe.
In February 2015, Vibes unveiled WalletAds, a product facilitating advertisers' integration with Apple's Passbook and Google Wallet.
History In 2010, Evernote raised $20 million in funding led by DoCoMo Capital and Morgenthaler Ventures as the service continued to expand its user base.
Microsoft discontinued Nokia Store in 2015, and users were transitioned to Opera Mobile Store as the new application store for legacy Nokia devices.
Applications Social cloud computing has been highlighted as a potential benefit to large-scale computing, video gaming, and media streaming.
The codec could scale up to high definition resolutions of 1920 x 1080 pixels at 24 frames per second.
store had access to applications, tones, videos, graphics, games, and news content from aggregators Nokia Software Market, WidSets, and third-parties like Handango, Jamster and Yahoo!
Samsung Galaxy S8 In April 2017, reports surfaced that the default music player on the then-new Samsung Galaxy S8 would be Google Play Music, continuing a trend that started with the S7 in 2016.
The series was presented by Bravo!FACT and co-produced by marblemedia and the National Film Board of Canada (NFB).
In November 2013 i.TV acquired GetGlue, maker of a leading second screen and social TV check-in platform.
Co-Browsing: the navigation of the Web by several people accessing the same web pages at the same time.
A social bookmarking website is a centralized online service that allows users to store and share Internet bookmarks.
Standard users located in the United States, Canada, and India could also listen to curated radio stations, supported by video and banner advertisements.
a document) its accessibility/visibility within the application (invisible, downloadable, etc.) Workspace-level permissions, refers to the ability to create team spaces with different accessibility/visibility settings.
It was developed in the spirit of the Acid test by the Web Standards Project to test the relevant parts that a mobile browser needs to support.
Bratton, Weiss and Riker initially founded Bratton Technologies as a professional networking platform for law enforcement officials called BlueLine Connect.
The service was developed by a team of students and scientists from the Institute of Knowledge and Data Engineering, the DMIR group at the University of Würzburg and the L3S Learning Lab Lower Saxony in Hannover and is mainly hosted by the University of Kassel.
Despite the advantages of distributed search, it shares several same security concerns as the traditionally centralized case.
In 2013, Financial Times listed AlterGeo among four "Russia's next tech titans", together with Yandex, Ozon and Ecwid, whereas Informilo included it in its "Russia's Top 25 Hottest Tech Companies" list one year earlier.
Grokster: Day 1 - March 30, 2005 MP3 Newswire recap of first day of trial Legally Speaking: Did MGM Really Win the Grokster Case?
F-Droid tries to check the source code and remove issues, but warns that the checking is not exhaustive.
He founded D2L while studying systems design engineering during his third year at the University of Waterloo.
They examine still photos and video footage from publicly available sources, social media sites like Twitter and Parler, video platforms, and other social media and submit that research to the FBI in the form of a tip.
Enterprise social software (also known as or regarded as a major component of Enterprise 2.0), comprises social software as used in "enterprise" (business/commercial) contexts.
History Webcrumbz Ltd, the company running Appticles was founded in London, in 2010 by Alexandra Anghel and Ciprian Borodescu.
Pricing Purchases are made in the Microsoft Points currency, which can also be used to purchase content from Xbox Live and Games for Windows Live marketplaces.
See also List of free and open-source iOS applications List of iOS games List of mobile app distribution platforms References External links Official website
Popularity and growth After its establishment in 2010, Buffer's total revenue per year increased to $1 million in January 2013, and then crossed $2 million in September of the same year through the growth of customers using the application.
In 2023, Unisys was named a Forbes’ Best Employers for Women, Best Employers for Diversity, and one of America’s Best Midsize Employers.
Music on Zune Marketplace was offered by the big four music groups (EMI, Warner Music Group, Sony BMG and Universal Music Group), as well as smaller music labels.
My Obscure Object of Desire: Ann Marie Fleming - In the animated short My Obscure Object of Desire, the heart will go to any lengths to become the object of its love's desire.
In the case study of SmartBlog, a system created to support mobile blogging, key principles were developed after assessing bloggers' needs.
Altos 68000 PicoSpan Amiga Ami-Express – aka "/X", very popular in the crackers/warez software scene.
BreadTube, also called LeftTube, is a loose and informal group of online personalities who create video content, including video essays and livestreams, from socialist, social democratic, communist, anarchist, and other left-wing perspectives.
However heavy server loads caused the system to crash around 9.00am and teaching was unable to continue.
Some sources indicate that right-wing and cyberlibertarian creators frequently take antagonistic stances toward political opponents, while many BreadTubers focus on analyzing and interpreting opposing arguments, sometimes incorporating elements of subversion, humor, or "seduction".
Windows Phone Store was a digital distribution platform developed by Microsoft for the Windows Phone.
On January 20, 2025, the first day of his second presidency, Donald Trump issued a pardon of January 6 United States Capitol attack defendants, granting blanket clemency to everyone charged in connection with the attack.
Alternate business models involve offering free videos in the 'tube' style of websites with advertising funding.
Samsung also held a developer challenge called Free the TV Challenge, which was won by WeDraw in 2010, an application that could draw on mobile and display on the TV screen.
In November, Mobinergy, a mobile device management software company, was acquired; and in December, Unisys acquired CompuGain, an Amazon Web Services Advanced Consulting Partner.
If the camera phone is equipped for Autogeotagging, the blog may be able to show a map of the locations.
(However, not all programming will be shown due to rights restrictions.) In March 2008, the Web site was revamped with changes including the home page and the video player, with a new Catch Up TV section.
Lewis and Fung did a complete rewrite of the code and changed the brand name to Simple Machines Forum (SMF).
Simple Machines Forum (SMF) software is an open-source web application that provides Internet forum and message board services.
In 2013 and 2014, the project became the winner of the "Runet Prize" in the "Popular Vote" category.
ID Trackback is used to inform other users about what a user mentions on their Hatena Diary, and is designed to accelerate interaction between users of the service.
AlterGeo, formerly known as Wi2Geo, is a Russian IT company specializing in the development of a global hybrid positioning system which combines Wi-Fi, WiMAX, GSM, GPS, LTE, IP address and network environment approaches.
Nokia argued customers used the carriers' mobile data to download content, but network operators remained resistant.
In February 2022, Instagram announced that IGTV would be discontinued in March 2022, electing to focus on video functionality in the main app (including Reels).
Eos was launched as a homegrown addition to Cisco’s Consumer portfolio in January 2009 at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES).
Since then, dedicated adult-only app stores like MiKandi and other mobile internet publishers have benefited from this gap in the market instead.
While it is source-available, redistribution and/or distribution of modified components is limited to authorized entities.
Workplace uses machine learning to rank information in a user's news feed and make recommendations, while 'downranking' less relevant information.
Celltick Technologies was an American telecom technology company specializing in emergency population warning systems, cell broadcasting and mass notification platforms.
It also surpassed 2,400 mobile developers worldwide, a 50% increase over its user base in 2016, with the number of third-party app users grew by more than 110%.
Due to U-Report's success in Uganda, UNICEF expanded the program to Zambia in December 2012 and to Nigeria in June 2014.
Answers Social login Social networks Social search Jumper 2.0 Knowledge Plaza Social customer support software Virtual worlds Active Worlds Google Lively (now defunct) Kaneva Second Life There Meez Wikis == References ==
Studies have shown that people are more likely to intervene when they are the only one in a situation.
See also aNobii Douban Goodreads LibraryThing Shelfari References External links BookArmy (website link rerouting to http://www.harpercollins.co.uk/)
B2B function and partnerships AlterGeo's hybrid positioning system allows web and mobile software developers as well as device manufacturers to position their users in order to provide them with location-aware features and collect relevant location-based statistics for marketing issues.
Emerging technologies Emerging technological capabilities to more widely distribute hosting and support much higher bandwidth in real time are bypassing central content arbiters in some cases.
Hatena Keyword Hatena Keywords is Hatena's dictionary service and automatically links to common Hatena services which mention the keyword.
History The company was founded by Ilja Laurs in 2004, who was its Executive Chairman, and Chris Dury, who was the CEO.
Web clipping support is installed by default on the Internet Explorer and Safari browsers when the Evernote software is installed on Windows or macOS.
Independent operating systems are software collections that use their own software distribution, customised user interface (UI), software development kit (SDK) and application programming interface (API) (except billing API which is related only to the application store).
U-Report is a social messaging tool and data collection system developed by UNICEF to improve citizen engagement, inform leaders, and foster positive change.
A researcher suggested the concept of the Semantic Web-interoperability could be useful for argumentative structures on the Web, going beyond the conventional flat structures of discussions and lack of characterizations of their components as implemented in argüman.
Huawei AppGallery — commonly reported HMS / AppGallery figures (220k+ HMS apps; ~580M MAU) are from Huawei / industry reporting in 2022; Huawei's HarmonyOS native app totals (HarmonyOS NEXT) and developer counts have been advanced in Huawei's 2024–2025 messaging (see Harmony Developers report).
See also List of social platforms with at least 100 million active users References External links Official website
Commonly referred to as GCM, Google Cloud Messaging served as C2DM's successor, making improvements to authentication and delivery, new API endpoints and messaging parameters, and the removal of limitations on API send-rates and message sizes.
North America The North American mobile erotica market differs from Europe in that carriers were slow to allow adult sites to use their subscriber payment mechanisms such as SMS, slowing market growth.
Jack Dorsey, the co-founder of Twitter, has endorsed and financially supported the development of Nostr by donating approximately $250,000 worth of Bitcoin to the developers of the project in 2023, as well as a $10 million cash donation to a Nostr development collective in 2025.
Reception Simultaneously with the unveiling of the software, many students and teachers criticized the software.
The platform was created to be self-hosted and currently comes with pretty normal requirements, working with most shared hosting environments around.
Patent-infringement lawsuits Klausner Technologies Inc is a corporation based in Sagaponack, New York, that invented visual voice mail technology in 1994.
HumHub is a free and open-source social network software written on top of the Yii PHP framework that provides an easy-to-use toolkit for creating and launching your own social network.
Malicious software issues On 1 September 2005, the United States Computer Emergency Readiness Team issued an advisory concerning Miniclip: The Retro64 / Miniclip CR64 Loader ActiveX control contains a buffer overflow vulnerability.
Features The availability of music encompasses numerous releases from mainstream artists and extends to any video categorized as music on the YouTube platform.
According to founders of dating apps, including The League, this is because modern dating app algorithms downrank people when left-swiped (passed on), and uprank when right-swiped (approved).
Firebird BBS Firebird BBS is one of two main telnet-based Bulletin board systems developed in Taiwan.
Mobile devices have expanded beyond basic communication and now these devices can support multimedia creation tools.
Lockheed Martin and Unisys paid the government $3.15 million to settle allegations that Unisys inflated the prices of spare parts sold to the U.S.
Microsoft Office Live Communications Server 2003 (LCS), provided many capabilities that were notably absent from the company's earlier Exchange IM solution, including encryption, logging, and standards-based protocols.
While prizes are generally plentifully scattered throughout the map, the upgrades or abilities they award are randomly selected by the zone.
Alongside all documents on Quip is a live updating history of edits made, as well as the ability to highlight portions of a document and add comments, which facilitates collaboration.
Applications Zune Marketplace included an applications section where apps and games could be downloaded for the Zune HD.
Developers can use secret URLs, password protection and limit the number of sales, and add tiered purchases and rewards.
The DPS offers a platform for dialogue and encourages people to connect in a virtual setting to establish relationships that can effect social change.
Grokster on 29 March 2005, and in June 2005, the court unanimously held that Grokster could indeed be sued for infringement for their activities prior to the date of this judgment.
A year later it was redesigned to "catalyze a big increase in traffic, across downloads, users, and total number of apps".
In 2021, YouTube Music introduced a seasonal recap feature, which serves as a culmination of a user's top artists, songs, albums and playlists, in a similar style to Spotify Wrapped.
Knack and Keefer (1997) used indicators of trust and civic norms from the World Values Survey for a sample of 29 market economies.
In March 2018, TapTap was fined for violating games publishing laws in China, among other companies, and shut down its service for 3 months.
Thor Muller explained in an interview with BusinessWeek that the website aims to be simple, noting that most customer-service solutions are too complex.
Per Microsoft lifecycle policies, the RTM version of Windows 8 has been unsupported since January 12, 2016, excluding some Embedded editions, as well its server equivalent, Windows Server 2012.
According to Cafe Bazaar, there are about 120 non-Iranian publishers and developers, with over 800 apps, that offer apps through its platform.
Kids and parents will enjoy reading, watching and playing with Miss Spider and her family of bugs in this brightly colored story and game app." == References ==
Buffer also displays sent post metrics on their free plan and has a "Create" space to store social media post ideas.
On February 20, 2018 Facebook added support for the industry-standard glTF 2.0 file format for Facebook 3D posts.
Dungeon & Fighter: Spirit Dungeon & Fighter: Spirit was the first mobile release of the series released in Korea in 2016.
HUVs are faster than regular cars and have better driving skills, so regular cars can't even approach them.
There is also a sixth drop box, called "Crystal Box", that gives 10 crystals upon collecting it, but they only show up in battles from Recruit to Master Sergeant and in event modes.
Along with Skyscanner and Apptopia, Braze published the Ready for Takeoff 2021 Travel Industry Trends, Insights and Strategies.
Further development In the late 2009 work on a new game - Tanki 2.0 began, however the project was eventually cancelled.
YouMail identifies problematic numbers through its audio fingerprinting technology and analysis of calling patterns, along with direct consumer feedback.
The developers began working on a full-scale MMO action game based on this demo in 2009, which became Tanki Online.
District Judge Phyllis Hamilton, who was presiding over Apple's case against Amazon, said she would "probably" deny Apple's motion to stop Amazon from using the "App Store" name.
Strip Show: Adam & Dave - Adam Brodie and Dave Derewlany's short film about an internet seductress who gets duped into performing out of character, acts before the camera.
YouMail virtual numbers and receptionist YouMail virtual numbers provide a second phone number, for example to separate business calls from personal calls, while keeping cell phones private and protected from unwanted calls.
Internet Public Library – librarian-edited directory, product of a merger with the Librarians' Internet Index (LII) in 2010.
In 2007, Maffia New was published on Rambler.ru as well as Time to Enforce, Real Wars and Steel Giants were launched.
History Samsung and LG were the first to tout new generation mobile phones that would allow users to watch live multi-channel TV on the move during International Broadcasting Convention (IBC) in Amsterdam in September 2005.
References External links Official website marblemedia NFB Collections page for The Art of Seduction
Increased Wi-Fi availability and mobile broadband adoption have changed the way people are going online.
While some marketers attempt to manipulate app stores with black hat strategies, the success of such techniques has become increasingly difficult through the years.
For each sex, there were three accounts using stock photographs, two with actual photographs of volunteers, one with no photos whatsoever, and one that was apparently deactivated.
A few of these companies also offer their own user-generated video sharing website both for commercial purposes and to show off their platform.
The games' expenses are typically funded by sponsors or through donations (which have no effect in the game itself).
WhoSay does not allow consumers to create accounts, nor does it include search features, making it difficult to access a celebrity's account unless a user is directed there from one of their other social pages.
Pamela Samuelson Technical Background of Grokster Decision - Philip Larson's Blog Legal Background of Grokster Decision - Philip Larson's Blog Summary of Supreme Court Decision - Philip Larson's Blog Advanced Peer-Based Technology Business Models.
In May 2013, Amazon introduced Amazon Coins as a form of payment for purchasing apps, games, and in-app purchases from the store.
was introduced to the app, which allows users to answer five questions regarding which historical event of two given events occurred first.
Bradford insists that the League's policies are meant to make the service more egalitarian, not less -- at least when it comes to race.
FirstClass (SoftArc) Hermes Second Sight TeleFinder Microsoft Windows Excalibur BBS Maximus Mystic BBS MS-DOS and compatible Citadel – including DragCit, Cit86, TurboCit, Citadel+ FBB (F6FBB) – packet radio BBS system, still in use.
Drift City (also known as Skid Rush (스키드러쉬) in South Korea) is a massively multiplayer online racing video game developed by NPluto and sponsored by several major automotive companies such as Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep, and U1 Technology.
Nokia Download!, originally Nokia Catalogs, was a mobile application for Nokia devices that allowed access to digitally distributed media content.
In May 2010, the company published Farm Frenzy, in cooperation with an international casual game publisher and distributor Alawar Entertainment.
A number of organizations within the Wikimedia movement including the Wikimedia Foundation publish official mobile apps for mobile access to Wikipedia.
Another reason UNICEF cited for introducing the program in Uganda was the nation's high cellphone use compared to other developing nations, with 48% of the nation's citizens owning a cellphone.
This list of mobile app distribution platforms includes digital distribution platforms, or marketplace 'app stores', intended to provide mobile applications, aka 'apps' to mobile devices.
Nexus Customers can use a specific game's Nexus by purchasing access to licensed content in Demiplane's marketplace.
Several more companies later joined the platform, including Time Warner Cable, Verizon, Comcast, Mozilla, Mogo Money, Microsoft Hohm, AMC Theatres, Qantas, Apple Inc., Dell, and Facebook.
In Aptoide, unlike the Android-default Play Store and iOS-default App Store, there is not a unique and centralized store; instead, each user manages their own store.
Cryptographic proof of ownership techniques allow decentralized networks to minimize the exposure of users' sensitive information.
The Opera Mobile Store then forwards the user to the country-specific store based on the location information provided by the mobile carrier or ISP.
ActivityPub is considered to be an update to the ActivityPump protocol used in pump.io, and the official W3C repository for ActivityPub is identified as a fork of ActivityPump.
In contrast to traditional enterprise software, which imposes structure prior to use, enterprise social software tends to encourage use prior to providing structure.
For information on each mobile platform and its market share, see the mobile operating system and smartphone articles.
CVG's Mike Jackson argued that the bigger screens, which made its unchanged resolution blockier, would probably be less noticeable to the older demographic for which the XL is undoubtedly designed.
Despite this failure, the next day, Ultranet held a promotional event at the Melbourne Convention and Exhibition Centre, at a cost of $1.4 million.
Schools would then have to pay NEC to use Ultranet, or find other ways to access equivalent functions.
In the series, a wave is an electronic communication, often consisting of a video call or video message.
Sinespace is a free-to-play massively multiplayer online Unity 3D-based platform created and published by Sine Wave Entertainment.
Adam Benjamin, for CNET in February 2023, stated that "of the tools we tested, D&D Beyond was far and away the simplest to get started with".
Style Jukebox allowed users to upload their personal music collection from their computer to Style Jukebox servers and listen to them from another compatible device (Android, iOS, Windows, Mac, and Windows Phone) by streaming or downloading songs for offline playback.
From 2008, Sadowski, Wierzejewski, and Wnukiewicz took over management of Grupa Pino, operating a dozen of websites, including a video-sharing site PinoTV, a microblogging platform Moblo.pl, and a slide-hosting site Slajdzik.pl.
A security breach exposed 41 million account records containing name, username, email address, DES-hashed password, gender, date of birth, and other profile info.
Roughly a year later, Quip was launched to the public as a mobile-centric tool for creating shared notes, lists, and documents.
Sports federations and media companies use cloud-based technology to produce professional-quality live streams and video clips for digital audiences.
Another issue was the development of DRM capabilities which helped prevent music piracy and gave mobile music more of a legal status.
Popular MMOs might have hundreds of players online at any given time, usually on company-owned servers.
At its most basic, a digital public square represents an evolution in how people discover, read and share news, information and content.
The Sedition Hunters community has created and deployed a number of advanced tools to help study the January 6 United States Capitol attack.
Argüman is a free and open source software for collective structured argumentation and argument analysis via argumentation graphs or argument maps in which the type of connections can be specified.
The company also developed specific solutions for precise location-based advertising (targeting, retargeting, RTB, etc.) and indoor positioning.
According to the Financial Times, AlterGeo is one of four "Russia's next tech titans".(registration required) The company was named winner and finalist of multiple domestic and international awards in the field of technology and media, and currently is a Skolkovo Innovation Center resident.
On October 23, 2006, the Simple Machines Forum project was split off from Lewis Media for the purpose of "[solidification of] the team’s commitment to continuously providing free software, without the perceived risks of corporate influence".
In 2016, Facebook created a feature called Messenger Day, which allowed users to post videos and pictures with filters for 24 hours only.
The services available on the English hatena.com site are: Hatena Haiku (a micro-blog service similar to Twitter or Jaiku.
Some current stores with the Want Button include: Burlington Coat Factory, Frederick's of Hollywood, Tommy Bahama, The Sharper Image, Acer Computer, Jimmy Jazz, and DermStore.
The majority of crimes in Moon Palace are committed by vehicles, which appear out of nowhere and speed through the city, terrorizing people on the street and paralyzing traffic.
for mobile content, is a mobile portal created for the exhibition of short films and animation series.
In August 2000, Nokia signed a deal with music publisher EMI to provide EMI-owned songs as ringtones, available from the Club Nokia website or by sending an SMS message.
On the other, cellphone technology had focused on the area of imaging, leveraging the user interest in taking pictures and the operator's need to drive data revenues through the use of its network.
Following the purchase of Demiplane, Roll20 began to support cross-platform access so that content unlocked on one platform would be automatically unlocked on the other platform.
Ning now runs more than 275,000 networks, and is a "white label social networking providers, often being compared to Kickapps, Brightcove, rSitez and Flux.
Content could be viewed or purchased on Windows PCs with the Zune software installed, Zune devices, the Xbox 360, Windows Phone phones, or the Microsoft Kin phones.
Syncplicity allows synchronization with other online services including Google Docs, Zoho, and Facebook.
With physical SIM hosting, a SIM is physically hosted in a GSM modem and SMS received by the SIM are relayed to the customer.
In April 2020, Sprinklr became the first advertising partner of TikTok, and expanded the partnership to organic content in May 2022.
Native video is video that is uploaded to or created on social networks and played in-feed, as opposed to links to videos hosted on other sites.
Later, Bratton Technologies became BlueLine Grid and the company launched a new product, also called BlueLine Grid, in May 2014.
Influences on communities Business 'cluster' is “used to represent concentrations of firms that are able to produce synergy because of their geographic proximity and interdependence” (Rosenfeld, 1997).
In 2002, the company successfully executed 100 Text-2-Screen events, marking the inception of this type of campaign within the United States, across multiple professional sporting venues.
They are able to interact with the other users through the tags, and can leave comments of up to 100 double-byte characters in length.
End of development of Google Wave On August 4, 2010, Google announced Wave would no longer be developed as a stand-alone product due to a lack of interest.
See also Collaboration technologies Enterprise portal Intranet portal List of collaborative software List of social bookmarking websites References Lockwood, A.
See also World Health Report Human Development Report The State of the World's Children World Development Report References External links U Report Global Official site
Players can also customize the shape and appearance of their avatar and buy avatars from third-party developers such as Daz 3D.
In 2009, Cengage announced it would use video from ShadowTV's seven-year archive to supplement its current archive of news broadcasts.
Promotional material promised consumers that, through the service: “The future of banking is in your hands”.
Products and services Brightspace Brightspace is a cloud-based learning management system (LMS) developed by D2L for use in K-12, higher education, and corporate training environments.
The SiteBar bookmark server is open source software published under the GPL, which enables anybody to run their own SiteBar server and keep their bookmarks under their control.
Proceedings of the International Conference on Information Systems and Design of Communication - ISDOC '14.
Only people that users are connected to and other verified public employees can view profile information, which does not contain personal contact information.
See also Hybrid positioning system Wi-Fi positioning system Location-based advertising Local positioning systems Mobile phone tracking References External links AlterGeo technology - official website (English, Russian)
A list of file sharing programs for use on computers running Linux, BSD or other Unix-like operating systems, categorised according to the different filesharing networks or protocols they access.
It has been revealed that 80% of the 1000 apps on the HarmonyOS platform have completed landscape screen transition.
Decentralized networks using protocols such as DSNP can implicitly help to enable increased user anonymity, thus enhancing a user's security and privacy.
The program sends SMS polls and alerts to its participants, collecting real-time responses, and subsequently publishes gathered data.
Relays have been criticized as being the most centralized component in the protocol's design, given their near-indispensable role in the network and a lack of clear incentives for running a relay.
In June 2010, about 300,000 software developers added apps to GetJar resulting in over one billion downloads.
The website may also interface with other kinds of services, such as citation management software and social networking sites.
Sessions focused on decentralized social networking, identity portability, and interoperability across applications.
UPnP AV media servers provide a service to UPnP AV client devices, so-called control points, for browsing the media content of the server and requesting the media server to deliver a file to the control point for playback.
The following year, Google acknowledged that about five percent of visits to its own websites had been altered by extensions with adware.
These technologies allow Guide to turn articles into news program-style episodes, incorporating video or images from the original source, while the text content of the article or blog post is read aloud by a virtual news anchor.
Web annotation can be used for the following purposes: to rate a Web resource, such as by its usefulness, user-friendliness, suitability for viewing by minors.
Features and restrictions Online Music Storage The online music storage provided native support for Mp3, M4a, and Ogg formats.
Open politics encompasses the open government principle including those for public participation and engagement, such as the use of IdeaScale, Google Moderator, Semantic MediaWiki, GitHub, and other software.
Windows Phone Store grew swiftly since its launch, and by February 2012, it had outgrown BlackBerry App World with 70,000 apps available (a milestone that BlackBerry App World passed in March 2012).
The FBI has relied on groups like the Sedition Hunters due to the large number of suspects, estimated at 2,000.
Some users noted the new app was much slower than the previous Windows and iOS versions, had many features removed, and did not work with some default keyboard layouts, including Turkish, Latvian, and Polish, due to a conflict of hardcoded key bindings.
The company launched Braze Alloys in 2018, a network of over 45 integration applications with companies like Segment, mParticle, and Amplitude.
Other websites include more complex web content voting systems; for example, five stars or reaction buttons to show a wider range of emotion to the content.
These include patents filed in 1998 relating to Van der Meer's fledgling social network Surfbook, including, according to legal papers filed by the patent holder, the ability for users to approve data using a "like" button.
In 2020, California State University used Unisys’ CloudForte and Managed Security Services to integrate its hybrid-cloud environment.
The goal was to deliver better, more relevant and personalized search results with this integration.
Webist (Selected Papers) 2010: 85-100 External links W3C Web Annotation Working Group Recommendations (as of February 23, 2017): Web Annotation Data Model Web Annotation Vocabulary Web Annotation Protocol Web Annotation Architecture, W3C's interactive illustration
In August 2024, Evernote further reduced its free plan to allow only one connected device at a time, with a maximum of two "desyncs" per month.
PlayNow was Sony Ericsson's download service for media that included music, games, ringtones, wallpapers and themes.
The company, Diino Systems AB, was founded 2004 and was based Stockholm, Sweden, with sales offices in Atlanta, London, and Mexico City.
Events TapTap Presents TapTap Presents is a Live Show, hosted by TapTap, that first streamed on July 10, 2020, unveiling game-related updates and upcoming mobile games, including Genshin Impact and Torchlight: Infinite.
Around the same time, a developer named Mikael Nordfeldth forked StatusNet with the intention of maintaining it as a personal project, dubbing it "Free Social".
Extension programming interface Google Wave is extensible through an application programming interface (API).
Starting with the 2.0 release the software is available under the BSD license, resolving the concerns.
See also List of social bookmarking websites AddThis AddToAny References Burkitt, Laurie (2010-02-22).
In 2003, it launched Handango InHand, a mobile app store that enabled users to discover, purchase, and install software directly on their mobile devices.
MITRE improved on that model by hosting the collaborative session on a server into which each user logged.
[...] We want the best answers to rise to the top, and not get buried in online discussion forums.” The service initially offered paid service plans to companies including Method Products, Timbuk2, Twitter, and Digg.
Department of Defense, Pearson Education, Virgin Group, the Smithsonian, the University of Edinburgh, Michigan State University, and other organizations.
Many BreadTube content creators are crowdfunded, and their channels often serve as introductions to left-wing politics for young viewers.
Advanced analytics Independent reviews describe Brand24 as a social listening and media monitoring platform that provides analytics for interpreting online mentions, including sentiment and other insight features.
As of the latest version, debates are presented in their entirety as a large tree which may be harder to navigate than other formats – for instance, trees "can become extremely dense, and the interface does not make it obvious which arguments the user should pay attention to".
The application allows users to be able to find local public employees by area, agency, and proximity to connect, communicate, or collaborate.
Services Wadja services include: an API that allows developers to access Wadja's product and offer them to their audience Security Wadja.com enables its members to restrict who has access to their profile and data and choose what information they want to appear on their profile.
This in turn leads to more options, greater economies of scale, while bearing additional advantages for hosting data and computing services closer to the edge where they may be needed most.
Criticism Fake "likes" The number of "likes" on Facebook can serve as a measurement of interest and/or popularity in a particular brand, product or personality, though there have also been reports of the "overblown importance" of likes.
According to Mohammad Mehdi Nooripour, chairman of the Student Organization Assembly, Shad software has about 800,000 daily visits.
The Profile tab displays the user's profile, showing how many N-Gage points the user scored scored, their reputation level (ranging between 1-5 stars), the number of friends they have, and their avatar/picture.
History The AT Protocol began development by Bluesky Social PBC, a public benefit corporation originally created as an independent research group within Twitter, Inc.
In 2012, the service was later taken over by Swiss Picture Bank with the intention to continue to run the service as before but now via the new Swedish company, New Diino AB.
In July 2023, Bluesky experienced a controversy after users discovered the social app did not prevent users from using racial slurs within their handles, and had removed discriminatory slurs from the platform's list of flagged words.
The new feature allows paying members to create and save groups of hashtags directly within the Buffer composer.
In 1935, he wrote an article called "The Place of Social Sciences in Modern Education," in which he wrote about the nature of an effective education in the social sciences to reach effective education by the willing masses.
(This list is limited to services that have their own Wikipedia article.) Free blog hosting services See also Comparison of file hosting services Comparison of online backup services == References ==
As a result, manufacturers of so-called custom ROMs, i.e., modified versions of Android, are not allowed to bundle Google apps, including the Play Store, with their software.
Roll20 also has a 'Looking For Group' service to help players and DMs find new people to play with".
Further development and challenges of e-Society depend on the use of new ICT technology and IoT in supporting smart media and smart information services.
The development of (VR) and consequently the e-Society is based on improvement and balancing of participants’ interaction methods, hardware necessary for such interaction, content presentation and effort required for development and maintenance.
The platform acts as an alternative to other forms of app monetization, such as banner ads or freemium models, by allowing developers to enable revenue-generating betting features within their games.
Such a website typically offers a blend of social and organizational tools, such as annotation, categorization, folksonomy-based tagging, social cataloging and commenting.
This first went live in the Nordic countries in August 2008 and offered additional types of free and premium content, including 1 million DRM-free tracks from record companies such as Sony Music, Warner Music, and EMI.
Many BreadTubers aim to reach audiences beyond those who already hold left-wing viewpoints rather than merely "preach to the choir".
Products Simple Machines Forum (SMF) software is written in PHP and uses MySQL for database management – it is built around established industry standards and is generally valued for its high security standards.
this requires specific version of Adobe Flash with acknowledged security issues) are capable of generating a specific type of HTTP request which allows a router implementing the UPnP IGD protocol to be controlled by a malicious web site when someone with a UPnP-enabled router visits that web site.
The team was later renamed Nintendo European Research & Development, or "NERD." NERD developed a new emulator for 2016's NES Classic Edition.
Native video formats are specific to each social platform and are designed to maximize video engagement (i.e.
See also Argumentation theory References External links arguman.org on GitHub Archived website Argüman on X
The portal, although accessible on PC with certain Internet web browsers (such as Mozilla Firefox), was conceived for viewing on mobile devices and thus only allows the download of short films on portable media players.
This service allowed subscribers to access a downloadable game portal and play advanced 3D mobile games, including MMOs.
The 2005 music video for Imogen Heap's song "Hide and Seek" was shot by Joel Peissig in portraiture, one of the first music videos in this format.
One of these extensions provides integration with the Lightning Network, a separate payment protocol that operates over the Bitcoin network, allowing the sending and requesting of small payments (nicknamed "Zaps") among Nostr users.
It includes an interface for aligning course activities and assessments with learning outcomes, as well as a data dashboard for reporting.
Hatena Notation Hatena Notation, also known as Hatena Markup, is a markup language that can be used to produce content without the use of (X)HTML.
While growth was primarily driven by Western European and North American users, popularity of the platform rose in East Asian countries like Japan as well.
Analysis of the Publication Sharing Behaviour in BibSonomy, Proceedings of the Conceptual Structures: Knowledge Architectures for Smart Applications, Springer, 2006 Dominik Benz, Andreas Hotho, Robert Jäschke, Beate Krause, Folke Mitzlaff, Christoph Schmitz, and Gerd Stumme.
RuStore is Russia’s official, state-sponsored app store, launched on May 25, 2022 by VK Corporation in cooperation with Russia’s Ministry of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media of the Russian Federation.
On 19 November 2025, HarmonyOS computers app ecosystem has 10,000+ desktop PC available apps on AppGallery.
In early 2021, Bluesky was in a research phase, with 50 people from the decentralized technology community active in assessing options and assembling proposals for the protocol.
This is a selected list of notable massively multiplayer online games which are free-to-play in some form without ever requiring a subscription or other payment.
This can then be downloaded as a ringtone or sent to another user's mobile phone" said the director of Synchro Arts, the developers.
Summary of the piracy argument It has been estimated that 90% of files shared on Grokster were downloaded illegally.
Ships maintain inertia once they are set in motion and cannot be brought to a complete stop except when in a safe zone.
Phoenix BBS Phoenix BBS was development of the Eagle BBS but incorporated a more user-friendly interface.
The project has also been involved in notable industry collaborations, including a partnership with Epic Games.
A separate app on the Play Store provides access to beta features that may not be available in the standard Wikipedia app.
On the website there is also a section called "Behind the scenes" that provides an insight into the short film industry.
i.TV's financial backers include venture capital firms Union Square Ventures (backer of Twitter, Tumblr and other companies), RRE Ventures, Rho Ventures, Time Warner Investments, DIRECTV, and others.
An "Add to Hatena Bookmark" button is integrated into a lot of famous news sites, such as asahi.com, CNET Japan, ZDNet Japan, Nikkei ITpro, and ITmedia.
Optional paid subscriptions These MMOGs offer optional additional game content through paid subscription, but are otherwise free to play.
The same year, in October, Appticles was selected as one of the finalists for How To Web Startup Spotlight Pitch Competition.
Get Satisfaction was a customer community software platform for technical support based in San Francisco, California, United States.
Artificial intelligence was announced to play a larger part in making Digg more accessible to users, Rose said at the time.
Once used, it would post a small embedded map with the user's current geographical location marked on it, as well as their local surroundings.
In February 2020, SAIC announced plans to acquire Unisys Federal, the company’s federal defense contracting operation, for $1.2 billion.
Mobile devices allowed uploads of up to 15 minutes in length with a file size of up to 650 MB, while desktop web browsers allowed uploads of up to 60 minutes in length with a file size of up to 3.6 GB.
Some companies started large mass media campaigns to advertise the fact that they had the latest tunes and largest collections of ring tones.
But posting to a "Story" will make it available to all friends for a 24-hour period and will appear as a bubble at the top of their feeds.
By April 2020, Club Q had partnered with PAPER magazine (a collaboration called PAPER x Club Quarantine) to host a series of events.
In 2012, Pink Visual established an anti-piracy service of its own that performs online copyright infringement location, trademark monitoring, copyright registration and DMCA takedown notice services for rights-holders.
Activities Braze provides customer engagement technology for MAX, Skyscanner, PureGym, Burger King, Babylon Health, Grubhub, NASCAR, OkCupid, TUI, and the NBA.
In January 2017, Quip acquired the three-person designer studio Unity & Variety, which had been developing a mobile productivity tool.
tag renaming, moving, merging) abilities that can be put in place to manage the folksonomy generated from user tagging.
In August 2019, an article in the US edition of Business Insider accused Brand24 of collecting excessive amounts of data from Instagram profiles for internet monitoring, using Brand24's own crawlers, in violation of the Instagram's terms and conditions.
Roll20 CEO Ankit Lal stated: "We want to make it as easy as possible for you to build your first character, to get into your first game, to try out playing TTRPGs.
Two prominent early BreadTubers were Lindsay Ellis, who left Channel Awesome in 2015 to start her own channel in response to the Gamergate controversy, and Natalie Wynn, who started her channel, ContraPoints, in 2016 in response to the alt-right's online dominance at the time.
History Chrome Web Store was publicly unveiled in December 2010, and was opened on February 3, 2011, with the release of Google Chrome 9.0.
See also Distributed social network ActivityPub Bluesky IP address Mastodon Nostr References External links DSNP: Distributed Social Networking Protocol Archived 2020-02-29 at the Wayback Machine Mailing list archive GitHub repository
This complements the basic voicemail to e-mail or via SMS to mobile devices which is becoming ubiquitous in that it allows better management of voicemail messages without clogging up the user's inbox and saves time filtering spam.
UPnP assumes the network runs IP, and then uses HTTP on top of IP to provide device/service description, actions, data transfer and event notification.
It was initially created as a community for users to navigate and discover new musical artists and albums.
After spinning a web to help their children plot their goal of going to bed on time for an entire week, Miss Spider and Holley meet success.
This service called Business Blueprints helped developers create high level models of their own software.
Rumors stemmed from an online job listing from Microsoft's website calling for a "Senior Product Manager".
The system monitors the user's social graphs through Facebook, Twitter, AlterGeo, Vkontakte, Foursquare etc., as well as their current location, to make recommendations.
Some dating services have been created specifically for those living with HIV and other venereal diseases in an effort to eliminate the need to lie about one's health in order to find a partner.
The company went public with an initial public offering in November 2021, on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
One of those components, Google Play Services, is a closed-source system-level process providing APIs for Google services, installed automatically on nearly all devices running Android 2.2 "Froyo" and higher.
In June 2020, Australia’s Home Affairs’ biometric identification system, built in part through partnership with Unisys, was launched.
A notable example includes a case where multiple protocol bridges have been used to conduct spam waves on the Bluesky social network (itself connected to a competing protocol, the AT Protocol) by creating posts on Nostr, bridging the post to ActivityPub and bridging it again to Bluesky.
In May 2024, Meta announced Workplace shutdown in 2026, encouraging users and system administrators to migrate to Zoom-owned Workvivo or download their data.
He envisages an informal roll-out, but on a common platform to enable future collaboration between areas.
Developer Sinespace's lead developer is Adam Frisby, who was also a key developer of the open source virtual world OpenSimulator.
The service also was broadcast alongside other PSB channels on the short lived BT Movio service, which used the DAB network in the UK to transmit video channels.
Other file synchronization services Several file synchronization and backup services launched around the same time as Syncplicity, including Live Mesh, Dropbox, and SugarSync.
The changeover will take place on 13 July and the company has additionally been renamed freenet DLS.
Club Q on April 8 2020 featured performances by Pabllo Vittar; DJS Nídia, Mazurbate (Matthew Mazur), and DJ MINAS; and Drag performers Rify Royalty and Louisiana Purchase.
Neutron Music Player, a cross platform UPnP/DLNA client which is able to read music files from UPnP/DLNA Media Server or send processed audio to UPnP/DLNA Media Renderer as an endless stream.
Online Store The online store had over 10 million indie tracks on sale in mp3 format (320 kbit/s), which were offered through a partnership with MediaNet.
Google Play Store on Android Google Play Store, shortened to Play Store on the Home screen and App screen, is Google's official pre-installed app store on Android-certified devices.
Co-browsers should support multiple frames and support embedded multimedia (e.g., if a page contains a video player, the session leader may commence synchronized playback for all users.
Darrel Fraser, then a deputy secretary of the Department of Education, was charged with obtaining property by deception, and misconduct in public office.
It allows individuals to connect across various platforms and tools without having to create and manage separate accounts, potentially reducing the division between users of individual platforms.
Technology The distributed LIBOX platform effectively creates private clouds that communicate between devices and Web browsers through a combination of algorithms, grids and peer-to-peer networking technologies.
Launch and reception A pupil-free professional development day was planned for 9 August 2010 for teaching staff to learn how to use the Ultranet.
History Riley Testut is an American developer who began to work on AltStore after Apple declined to allow his Nintendo emulator Delta on the App Store.
In addition to online comments and leaks, this speculation was also supported by the existence of the position of Ultranet 'Business Owner'.
In March 2010, Get Satisfaction launched their Facebook application that allowed companies and brands to put their customer community on their Facebook page as a tab.
On 18 January 2024, during HarmonyOS Ecosystem development event, Huawei's President of Device Cloud announced that the HarmonyOS NEXT software system marks the second stage of development for HarmonyOS.
The development of e-Society is relying and depending on the development of virtual reality (VR) technologies that insure interaction between participants of an e-Society in a more acceptable and tangible way.
Mobile news delivery Today, mobile news delivery can be done via SMS, by specialized applications, or using mobile versions of media websites.
If the remote control software package supports audio transfer, the playback software can run on the remote computer, while the music can be heard from the local computer, as though the software were running locally.
The main categories of mobile games include Puzzle/Strategy, Retro/Arcade, Action/Adventure, Card/Casino, Trivia/Word, Sports/Racing, given in approximate order of their popularity.
In November 2012, Mandala Games became the first European game developer to use the Betable platform, enabling real-money play in its title Slots by La Riviera.
DNF Duel DNF Duel is a 2.5D fighting game co-developed by Arc System Works, Eighting, and Neople, and published by Nexon.
Roll20 also contains a separate marketplace - where art assets and complete game modules are sold - and a reference compendium for several game systems.
BreadTube creators generally post videos on YouTube that are discussed on other online platforms, such as Reddit.
So, in 2014, five years after Moon Palace was built, the OMD government plans to build another city, Koinonia, next to Moon Palace.
History Research initiative Jack Dorsey, then-CEO of Twitter, Inc., first announced the Bluesky initiative in 2019 on the Twitter platform to explore the possibility of decentralizing Twitter.
Some ways of overcoming this may be to only allow computations to occur at night, or during specified times the client resources will not be in use.
The company has raised a total of $23 million in venture funding from, among others, Venture51, Greylock Partners, and Founders Fund.
Data storage and access Users with internet access and an Evernote account will have their notes automatically synchronized with a master copy held on Evernote's servers.
However, most mobile network operators have implemented age verification systems, which require that customers who want to buy porn through their phone legally prove that they are a consenting adult first.
Telefónica Digital On August 13, 2013, The New York Times reported that Telefónica Digital and Evernote entered into a global partnership agreement, giving Brazilian customers free access to Evernote Premium for one year.
History TapTap was created by Yiwan in 2016 with an investment from XD Inc., previously known for peer-to-peer download network VeryCD.
A review of Itch.io by PC Mag's Jordan Miner praised its library of more unique and artistic indie games, but conceded it catered to a more specific, "indie-centric" audience.
Some forums also allow the administrator to create multiple styles or themes, and allow the user to choose which one they wish to view.
Official content that is released for free by Wizards of the Coast is also accessible for free on D&D Beyond.
Online video platforms allow users to upload, share videos or live stream their own videos to the Internet.
An official agency or government email is not required to use the application, but it is necessary for identities to be verified in order to access the connections or information within the Grid.
Reception IGN's hands-on report found that the user interface was good and that Nokia's strategy of preloading the application on newly shipped devices will help.
Nokia acquired the company in 2007 and merged it into its Services division as Nokia Interactive Advertising.
Site users could discuss and review titles, record their own personal book collection and create reading lists.
It has been the subject of multiple issues concerning security, in which malicious software has been approved and uploaded to the store and downloaded by users, with varying degrees of severity.
Originally introduced as part of Apple's 2017 developer conference, new App Store guidelines allow the company to ban apps making use of templates or commercial app services.
The services had been established in China and several European countries by the third quarter of 2009.
Recognition and awards NelsonHall In 2018, 2019, 2020, and 2023, Unisys was named a leader in the NelsonHall Evaluation & Assessment Tool (NEAT) Vendor Evaluation for Advanced Digital Workplace Services.
Mobile TV Format is a colloquial and collective name for technology standards set out for broadcasting TV services to mobile devices, mostly mobile handsets for now.
"The ethnicity data helps us maintain a diverse and balanced community that reflects that of the city (in our case, the San Francisco Bay Area)," she says.
Content restrictions Microsoft did not distribute certain types of apps, including those with sexual content, via the Marketplace.
For instance, five-channel Virgin Mobile TV (VMTV) was launched in UK in October 2006, based on DMB technology with a £2.5m advertising campaign.
The company was recognized as a “Best Place to Work for Disability Inclusion.” The Disability Equality Index is a joint initiative of Disability:IN and the American Association of People with Disabilities.
university professor has estimated the value of Mitron energy buried on the uninhabited island the size of Jeju Island at $4 billion (KRW 4.51 trillion) per metric ton, with about 1 million metric tons of Mitron buried on the island.
Energy Rather than dealing with ammunition counts and hit points separately, SubSpace combines both of these elements into a single unit of measure: energy.
viewed news content on their devices throughout the day demonstrated how people use different mobile devices for different functions.
Because of its absence, the DSi is not backward compatible with GBA Game Paks or with accessories that require the GBA slot, such as the Nintendo DS Rumble Pak and the Guitar Hero: On Tour series guitar grip.
The company also won Bully Awards 2012, and was named a finalist of the Red Herring Top 100 Global and Red Herring Top 100 Europe lists.
In the People's Republic of China, using a transnational matchmaking agency involving a monetary transaction is illegal.
Multi-platform Citadel – originally written for the CP/M operating system, had many forks for different systems under different names.
The following table compares general and technical information for cross-platform instant messaging clients in active development, each of which have their own article that provide further information.
JRiver Media Center, a media player/organizer with a DLNA/UPnP server, controller, and renderer, including conversion.
Goal The Alliance's ultimate aim is to help stem, and ultimately reverse, the growth of non approved content around the world.
In addition to the DVD line, Male Spectrum has also launched two gay mobile sites compatible with the iPhone and other multimedia capable mobile devices, iMaleSpectrum.com and iMaleSpectrumPass.com.
In January 2014 i.TV launched tvtag, a second screen iPhone app that provides a feed of television moments that users can then share, doodle on and comment on in a variety of ways.
GLB files could also be directly exported from a variety of 3D editors, such as Blender, Vectary, Autodesk 3ds Max (using Verge3D exporter), Autodesk Maya, Modo, Microsoft Paint 3D, Substance Painter and others.
An example of retail would be the addition of social sharing with music, through the iTunes music store.
Formosa BBS (or NSYSU Formosa BBS) was one of the earliest telnet-based Bulletin board systems (BBS) to have Chinese language capability.
Recognition In 2013, Webcrumbz won Silver for the Best Mobisite at the Mobilio Awards gala, on 16 April with the First Aid Lesson app for MaiMultVerde, Romania.
There also is research into applying conclusion-making methods to the debates or their data, such as bipolar weighted argumentation frameworks – this could be a way to find out what the current conclusion of debates like "Computer Science is not actually a science" is.
On November 10, 2008, the company was removed from the S&P 500 index when the market capitalization of the company had fallen below the S&P 500 minimum of $4 billion.
BookArmy closed on 21 December 2010 citing "strong competition from similar sites and fewer advertising opportunities".
On February 26, 2018, CoolStar launched the initial release of Electra, giving access to Cydia from iOS versions 11.0-11.1.2.
History Early days Tanki Online's history began in the late 90s - a prototype called Tanks for Two was developed on floppy disks, only to die out as technology moved from floppy disks to CDs and the developers lost their source code.
Wireless Latin Entertainment (WILAEN) is a United States producer and distributor of Latin digital entertainment content formed in 2001.
Anyway, the relative store APK can often be installed in other compatible systems without rooting a device, as it happens for Huawei AppGallery and stock Android.
4.7 million apps are downloaded from Cafe Bazaar every day and 7.9 million apps are sold every month.
All Synology NAS are DLNA mediaserver and contain a webbased DLNA player which is also available as App for Android or iOS.
During 2002, in pre-android era, Celltick released its first product – software named as LiveScreen, for mobile operators.
The site was created as a digital public square project for Palm Beach County, Florida, and was funded by a Civic Initiatives Leadership Grant from the John S.
In 2013, Celltick released the Start interface for android based handsets, which was utilized by multiple mobile operators and device manufacturers reaching around 150 million installations.
BitTorrent BitTorrent Deluge KTorrent Miro Opera Tixati Transmission Tribler - Tribler uses a modified form of the BitTorrent protocol; it is anonymous and decentralized (and so does not require a tracker or indexing service to discover content).
Retailers give discounts, free shipping, and other offers in order to entice these shoppers to come back and buy.
Features may include limiting access to authenticated users, tracking of user actions, integration with single sign-on services, and a lack of the advertisements normally present on public sites.
With the StatusNet name change, the company developing both the software and OStatus as well as managing identi.ca rebranded from Control Yourself to StatusNet Inc.
Their videos often offer no definitive conclusions; instead, viewers are encouraged to interpret the presented material themselves.
Realizing that customers were actually responding to the issues that other people brought up, the group behind Valleyschwag decided to create the precursor to Get Satisfaction, first named Satisfaction Unlimited, to take advantage of the community's enthusiasm for helping each other.
Services Mobile Operator Solutions Payment Aggregation Virtual Mobile Content Provider Pre-approved Offers RGK Engine Key people Roman Taranov- Co-founder and CEO Evgeny Kayumov- Co-founder and Chief Marketing Officer == References ==
courts In April 2003, Los Angeles federal judge Stephen Wilson ruled in favor of Grokster and Streamcast (providers of Morpheus P2P software) against the Recording Industry Association of America and the Motion Picture Association of America and held that their file sharing software was not illegal.
As a result, users subscribed to Google Play Music in the United States, Australia, New Zealand and Mexico are now given access to YouTube Premium—which includes YouTube Music Premium.
On 20 June 2025 at HDC 2025 with HarmonyOS 6 Developer Beta debut, Huawei's consumer business group's chief operating officer Richard Yu announced that the HarmonyOS ecosystem, has over 30,000 native apps and meta-services.
History The term “digital public square” was originally coined by the Community Foundation for Palm Beach and Martin Counties during the development of yourPBC.org.
Such companies include Lexus, which partnered with the company to promote a campaign in which actress Rosario Dawson, during the lead up to the 87th Academy Awards, released five short videos on her social media accounts.
To make 3D Posts glTF 2.0 compliant, the support for textures, lighting, and physically based rendering techniques was implemented.
As people increasingly own mobile devices, cross-platform multimedia consumption has continued to shape the digital landscape, both in terms of the type of media content they consume and how they consume it.
Closure Nokia launched the Ovi Store on 26 May 2009, a single marketplace including for Java-developed games, and had already announced before that N-Gage games will be offered on the new store in addition to the existing N-Gage client app.
As of February 2025, Evernote has a free plan of 50 notes (of a maximum size of 200 MB) and 1 notebook, syncing to 1 device.
The term gained recognition in the industry, with sites such as Search Engine Watch and TechCrunch advocating the practice by February 2012.
BookArmy was a social networking website and book recommendation tool for readers, owned by HarperCollins.
Social psychologist David Buss has estimated that approximately 30 percent of the men on Tinder are married.
Origin The term BreadTube derives from Peter Kropotkin's The Conquest of Bread, a book explaining how to achieve anarchist communism and how an anarchist-communism society would function.
Saurik eventually released the update, and pushed the update to iOS devices running iOS 11 with Cydia at the time.
Paint Paint mode presents users with several different black-and-white images of Miss Spider and other characters in the book, and several different "brushes" and colors.
Selection process Each member receives one ticket to bring in a friend, allowing that friend to bypass the application process.
Other NIPs include ways to add a human-readable alias to an npub key using a well-known URI hosted on a web server, a method that is used by other protocols such ActivityPub and the AT Protocol.
Through the website, any internet user could access the source, verify the context of the phrase's use, and report it to the article's author or publisher.
Moleskine In August 2012, Moleskine partnered with Evernote to produce a digital-friendly notebook with specially designed pages and stickers for smartphone syncing.
The action is viewed from above, which presents challenges very different from those of a three-dimensional game.
The product was similar in look and feel to Kazaa, marketed by Sharman Networks, and Morpheus, which was distributed by StreamCast.
In March 2008, the top 5 overall sites held 7% less market share than they did one year ago while the top sites from the top five major niche dating categories made considerable gains.
Guide app Guide is a visual newsreader app for personal computers, mobile devices and Smart TV, which uses text-to-speech and avatar technologies to turn text-based online news, blogs and social media updates into video content.
Club Quarantine (Club Q) is a virtual gay club based in Toronto that began hosting URL (online) parties in early 2020 during the COVID-19 pandemic.
The WILAEN distribution network has a presence in eight countries: Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, Mexico, Peru, and the U.S.
Prior to Cafe Bazaar facilitating the use of local debit cards for In-App purchases, users of foreign games like Clash of Clans, one of the most popular games in Iran, had to resort to using third-party websites were security was sometimes lacking and services were expensive.
The AlterGeo system can be accessed through API and SDK or deployed on the client side as an on-premises solution.
According to Steven Brintgregates of people who share common activities and/or beliefs and who are bound together principally by relations of affect, loyalty, common values, and/or personal concern – i.e., interest in the personalities and life events of one another".
For example, the New York Times mobile site registered 19 million views in May 2008, compared to 500,000 in January 2007.
Adoption The initial wave of adoption for ActivityPub (circa 2016–2018) came from software that was already using OStatus as their federation protocol, such as Mastodon, GNU social and Pleroma.
In 2009, a startup project called HeyStaks (www.heystaks.com) developed a web browser plugin "HayStaks".
A comparison of the development capabilities of each mobile platform can be found in the article on mobile app development.
Member commitments Members of the Alliance agree to, among other measures: · support and promote ‘hotlines’ or other mechanisms for customers to report child sexual abuse content discovered on the Internet or on mobile content services.
In June 2006 Nokia announced the Nokia Content Discoverer and signed deals that brought content from Electronic Arts, Warner Bros and others to the Content Discoverer.
In July 2010, i-Jet Media and mobile social network Spaces.ru established a game section, which managed to get more than 25,000 visitors during its first day online.
Messaging services with a multi-device model are able to eliminate feature disparity and provide identical functionality on both mobile and desktop clients.
BreadTube creators align with collectivist modes of governance, while opposing the alt-right and far-right.
At the Black Hat security conference in 2012, security firm Trustwave demonstrated their ability to upload an app that would circumvent the Bouncer blocker system.
It allows groups of people to create and edit documents and spreadsheets as a group, typically for business purposes.
Frisby additionally created a company that earned seven figures in real money by selling content in Second Life.
Web Compatibility Test for Mobile Browsers, often called the Mobile Acid test, despite not being a true Acid test, is a test page published and promoted by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) to expose web page rendering flaws in mobile web browsers and other applications that render HTML.
Among the earliest was an interactive map, showing videos recorded of the event that had embedded GPS location tags.
Grabyo is a browser-based live video production suite integrated with other social media platforms such as Facebook, YouTube, Instagram, Snapchat, Twitter, and Periscope.
This was the default way to install Android apps on Windows 11 (Note: Windows Subsystem for Android and the Amazon Appstore are no longer available in the Microsoft Store after March 5, 2025).
The organization is funded by private donations, advertisements on its website, and income from "charter memberships".
Performances and events April 2020 On April 3 2020, Club Q celebrated the birthday of Chester Lockhart who hosted the party on Zoom.
Users with standard accounts could store up to 50,000 songs from their personal libraries at no cost.
Apple responded to Amazon's attempted dismissal of the lawsuit by claiming that Amazon was tarnishing the trademark by using the name.
In addition to individual efforts, major media outlets like CNN, Reuters, and Yahoo are attempting to harness the power of citizen journalists.
Distributed Social Networking Protocol (DSNP) is an open-source protocol designed to enable decentralized social networking by allowing interoperability between platforms.
Almost all features of the Wadja website are also available on the mobile platform and are optimized for both the iPhone and the BlackBerry.
Mobile app platforms Native platforms These application marketplaces, or 'm' are native to the major mobile operating systems.
Benefits Decentralization allows users to retain ownership of their information and enables them to move personal data between platforms.
Google announced in October 2012 that they had signed deals with Warner Music Group that would bring "their full music catalog" to the service.
It was originally discussed to have been a star or a plus sign, and during development the feature was referred to as "awesome" instead of "like".
In Zambia, U-report was used to prevent HIV among adolescents and young people, with voluntary HIV testing in the country rising from 24% of the population to 40%.
Unlike their predecessor Napster, these file sharing programs allowed users to trade files directly between one another, without these transactions passing through a centralized server.
Unlike the larger and functional alternative Kialo, which is structured using only 'Pro' and 'Con' relations, argüman arguments are structured by three types of premises – 'because', 'but', and 'however'.
Desktop messaging clients on secondary devices do not function independently, as they are reliant on the mobile phone maintaining an active network connection for login authentication and syncing messages.
More recent examples are Human rights & social technology by Rainer Knopff and Tom Flanagan which addresses both human rights and government policies that ensure them.
General DOAJ.org – Directory of Open Access Journals Curlie.org (formerly DMOZ, also known as Open Directory Project – the largest directory of the Web.
"As people mostly post photos and videos, Stories is the way they’re going to want to do it," says Facebook Camera product manager Connor Hayes, noting Facebook's shift away from text status updates after ten years as its primary sharing option.
In 2017, a man was fined 4,000 Swiss francs by a Swiss regional court for liking defamatory messages on Facebook written by other people which criticized an activist.
ShadowTV, founded in 2001, provides all-digital continuous-access to live and archived television content via the web.
If computations offloaded to the client are continuously interrupted, some mechanism for detecting this must be in place such that the client may know the computation is tainted or needs to be completely re-run.
Pilosof created LIBOX to allow users to manage and share media across all devices and keep its original high quality.
Leadership Cisco Eos is developed by the Cisco Media Solutions Group, led by Cisco employee Dan Scheinman.
Operating on an application-agnostic model similar to SMTP for email, the DSNP promotes the development of interoperable applications.
At a certain point of time, the players will be informed of the location of a fugitive HUV that is near.
TapTap is a mobile game-sharing community and third-party game store that originated in China, operated by XD Inc.
It also refers to the digital distribution platform for software on iOS accessed through Cydia software.
In 2019 the platform added reaction options such as "celebrate", "love", "insightful" and "support".
By June, it had paid over $393,000 and hosted over 15,000 creations, a figure which had tripled over the previous nine months.
Rubies are earned by completing challenges and missions, catching Ruby Megagolds (drop boxes that contain 10 rubies), or by buying them in the shop from exclusive offers.
Currently improvements to the reliability, subtitles on some programmes and a dedicated CITV section have since launched.
The company plans to reintroduce GetJar with a modernized interface, expanded app offerings, and new features that aim to recapture its position as a go-to destination for downloadable apps and playable games.
History The product was created as a web-based application in 2005 for accessing multiple chat platforms, including Facebook Messenger, Google Talk, Yahoo!
The firehose is available to all network agents, and can be consumed by any service within the network.
Garriott's famed 1997 definition referred to the fundamental architecture shift required to support tens of thousands of concurrent players, which required shifting from individual servers to data centers on multiple continents.
However, Bradford said people wanted to know about a person's race, and the ethnicity data is meant to help the site be more inclusive by being diverse.
Learning Analytics and Intelligent Agents provide early intervention to help learners and a set of data that can be used to make improvements based upon analysis.
Among sites in this category are: Open source MediaGoblin (software) PeerTube Plumi (software to create video-sharing sites) Web-based video editing Web-based video-editing sites generally offer a user-generated video sharing website in addition to some form of editing application.
It provides a framework for open digital interactions that enables users to maintain a consistent social identity across multiple applications.
Drastic reduction of free edition In June 2016, Evernote introduced a new limitation to just 2 devices on the free plan (previously unlimited) and increased the price of their paid plans.
LiveScreen was used by multiple mobile operators worldwide including BSNL, Airtel, Tele2, Vodafone, and Taiwan Mobile, Globe Telcom Philippines.
In May 2011 i.TV and AOL together re-launched AOL's online destination for TV viewers, AOL TV, based on i.TV's technology platform.
They differ from the main public arenas, in the sense that they may have their own settings, map, graphics, and bots (if required – or modules in ASSS zones).
A digital omnivore is a person who uses multiple modalities (devices) to access the Internet and other media content in their daily life.
At this time, Braze was delivering over 100 billion messages each month and had raised over $175 million in funding.
F-Droid is a free and open source app store and software repository for Android, serving a similar function to the Google Play Store.
As a result of its ability to quickly and discreetly create accounts and publish posts to relays, Nostr can propagate spam much more easily if left unchecked.
In some situations, text that appears in captured images can be recognized using optical character recognition (OCR) and annotated.
DJ D-Nice's Club Quarantine played largely hip-hop and rap music, while the Canadian Club Q plays a wide variety of music genres including hyperpop.
1067, 2067, 3067) Yamaha RX-Vx73 series, beginning with RV-V473 Yamaha RX-Vx75 series, beginning with RV-V475 Yamaha Aventage Series (RX-A1000/A2000/A3000) Ziova ClearStream Series (i.e.
At any time, the player can slide/drift the car that is controlled, which allows taking corners as quickly as possible.
Features Shorts in Motion: The Art of Seduction integrates quizzes, advice columns and guides as well as downloads of all 10 Micro Movies which can be played back on mobile phones.
Users can store their bookmarks on a private or public SiteBar server, access them online, and share them with multiple user groups.
On March 3, 2026, Salesforce announced that Quip would be retired and that subscriptions would not be renewable after March 1, 2027.
Windows 11 In Windows 11, Microsoft Store received an updated user interface, and a new pop-up designed to handle installation links from websites.
The company started exporting them to European social networks: Estonia, Finland, Germany, and Poland.
In 2008, the Republican National Convention and Democratic National Convention named ShadowTV as their official monitoring service.
The service was launched and introduced by former Instagram CEO Kevin Systrom in a live event in San Francisco on June 20, 2018, featuring creators such as Lele Pons.
It allows users to create collaborative "semantic maps" of arguments in well structured tree formats and share them with an audience and potential participants.
See also List of social bookmarking websites Comparison of reference management software List of social software == References ==
The League scans an applicant's Facebook and LinkedIn profiles to analyze alma maters, degrees, professions, industries, social influence, neighborhood and age.
In Japan, the game was renamed to Arad Senki while in the west it was titled Dungeon Fighter Online.
The Club Q Zoom event on March 17, 2020 featured a spontaneous live stick-and-poke session where a virtual club-goer got a tattoo reading "Club Q".
The website, which received an initial round of financing of $1.3 million, received financing from investors that include First Round Capital, O'Reilly Alphatech Ventures, and SoftTechVC.
On September 1, 2025, Workplace website entered read-only mode and the Workplace mobile app and the Workchat desktop app stopped working.
He foresaw "the biggest problem" being that "there will suddenly be the assumption that players who cut their teeth on the 2014 rules will need to understand the 2024 rules revision in order to get the most use out of the D&D Beyond platform at the table".
Third-party platforms Third-party platforms are software distribution platforms which are used as alternatives to operating system native distribution platforms.
YouTube Music Premium and YouTube Premium subscribers can switch to an audio-only mode that can play in the background while the application is not in use.
History BlueLine Grid was co-founded by Bill Bratton, Jack Weiss, and David Riker as Bratton Technologies.
Hampton, Wellman (1999) claims, that “increased connectivity and involvement not only can expose people to more contact and more information, it can reduce commitment to community”, because “immersiveness can turn people away from community”.
Upcoming games Overkill In April 2021, the upcoming Dungeon Fighter Overkill, also known as Dungeon & Fighter Overkill, was announced.
History On March 8, 2011, Opera Software announced the launch of Opera Mobile Store powered by third-party provider.
This can be one of the following: Session — when a user's session starts, this method relies on the user's "last visit time" to display all messages created since that date as unread.
It took the form of a little button one could press with footprints on it, as well as being a website of its own.
After being in private beta for some months the site went live in February 2009, though remained in its beta phase.
Regarding the trigger of communication, Kaplan differentiates between push communication, initiated by the organization, and pull communication, initiated by the consumer.
The company provided three main advertising products which included Enpocket Platform, Enpocket Mechanics, and Enpocket Network, each provided different advertising capability on mobile platforms from the early 2000s.
In 1986, Tony Bates published "The Role of Technology in Distance Education", reflecting on ways forward for e-learning.
The service allows users to browse and download applications for over 7,500 different devices on Android, Java, BlackBerry OS, Symbian, iOS, and Windows Mobile.
It is used to build digital fan bases, drive TV audiences and generate revenue from third-party sponsors and pay-TV subscriptions.
Shared presence combined with depth of information provides shared meaning (Miranda and Saunders, 2003).
limited their operations in Russia after the invasion of Ukraine and eventually ceased operating in Russia.
Facebook's introduction of the Story function may have been in response to the wider success of Instagram Story advertising over the advertising on Facebook Wall; Instagram Story ads were found to be more successful than Facebook Wall advertising in all demographics aside from non-millennial men.
Internet users develop more connections online due to the global activity on the internet, and as services make it possible to upload content, they likewise facilitate widespread distribution of information.
"We did a ton of testing on this screen and these preferences were the most highly requested," she said ...
Clients are accepted by the service on an invitation-only basis, although they are not restricted to Creative Artists clients.
If a device has a URL for presentation, then the control point can retrieve a page from this URL, load the page into a web browser, and, depending on the capabilities of the page, allow a user to control the device and/or view device status.
Crystals are used to purchase equipment (turrets, hulls, protective modules and drones) in the garage, augments for turrets and supplies.
It raised $1 million from investors including Sapient, the Knight Foundation, MTV founder Bob Pittman, founding Google team member Steve Schimmel, and actor Omar Epps.
ShareThis is a technology company headquartered in Palo Alto, CA, with offices in New York, Chicago, and Los Angeles.
Once the ship's energy drops below zero, the ship is destroyed and the player is respawned elsewhere in the area.
TextFree (formerly called Pinger and sometimes stylized as textfree) is a freemium mobile application and web service that allows users to send and receive text messages, as well as make and receive VoIP phone calls.
In October, Adobe acquired Actimagine's vector graphics technology and incorporated it into Flash Lite.
See also List of digital distribution platforms for mobile devices References External links Official website (Mobile)
Official apps Wikimedia Foundation Wikipedia apps from the Wikimedia Foundation are called "Wikipedia".
Through a combination of technical measures, co-operation and information sharing, the Alliance seeks to create significant barriers to the misuse of mobile networks and services for hosting, accessing, or profiting from not approved content.
Chrome used to allow extensions hosted on Chrome Web Store to also be installed at the developer's website for the sake of convenience.
The game is an online multiplayer side-scrolling beat 'em up that features multiple classes to choose from.
Services D2L's services include onboarding services, end-user help desk support, technical account management, technical data management, advisory consulting, program management, training, course development, customization, and accessibility design support.
These practices maintain the integrity of an app, staying within the realms of the app stores’ terms of services.
Vertical video ads like Snapchat's are watched in their entirety nine times more than landscape video ads.
On 14 February 2006, the plaintiffs filed motions for summary judgment as to the liability of the remaining defendants, StreamCast and Sharman.
History LIBOX was founded in 2008 by Erez Pilosof, who previously founded Walla!, the first major web portal in Israel.
Content restrictions Apps in Windows Phone Store are subjected to a content policy, which exists to guide app developers, and to facilitate a restriction or banning of certain content.
There are some countries in the world placing restrictions on YouTube, instead having their own regional video-sharing websites in its place.
According to TechCrunch, one top user charged $700 per story, with a $500 bonus if the story reached the front page.
The price of each bundle is determined by simply adding the current price of all books in the bundle, then subtracting the cost the customer has previously paid for books in that bundle that they already own.
As of Sony's complete acquisition in 2011, this service is no longer available, and has been replaced with Sony Entertainment Network.
On May 17, 2018, YouTube announced a new version of the YouTube Music service, including a web-based desktop player and redesigned mobile app, more dynamic recommendations based on various factors, and Google artificial intelligence technology to search songs based on lyrics and descriptions.
In June 2011, Aptoide Uploader was released as a "sister" application from the same development team.
Allegations of racism were due to the requirement for the user to declare their ethnicity, and the ability to filter non-white users.
As a result, Nokia announced in September 2004 that the service for selling ringtones would close down, never having become the commercial success it was forecast to be, and Club Nokia became solely a customer service, loyalty and news portal.
came preloaded on most Symbian S60 smartphones from Nokia (from 2006), as well as some later Series 40 feature phones.
Buffer for Business Buffer for Business is an extension of the Buffer application intended for managing social media accounts for businesses and corporations.
The app was well-received, winning accolades as one of the best apps of the year from Time, The Next Web, and The Guardian.
This version introduced in-app purchases of digital goods, allowing for add-ons to be purchased within applications.
On 25 March 2005, billionaire and former Broadcast.com owner Mark Cuban announced he would finance Grokster's fight in the Supreme Court.
When the first motion picture screenings were held in 1895, however, the format was standardised horizontally (though at 4:3 aspect ratio, the images were closer to a square format than to widescreen).
By using encryption and permission-based access systems, DSNP enables users to determine who can view and interact with their data, supporting their ability to manage their digital presence.
Windows The Metro-style app provides a read-only version of Wikipedia, similar to the mobile web version.
Tallahassee, FL digital public square project Coral Gables, FL digital public square project District of Columbia Digital Public Square See also Web 2.0 Digital public infrastructure == References ==
However, some zones offer their own variants of this style of gameplay: King of the Hill – Each player starts off with a crown, which may be lost if the set amount of time runs out.
By adding port mapping, a UPnP controller behind the IGD can enable traversal of the IGD from an external address to an internal client.
In June 2010, Simple Machines re-formed as a not-for-profit organization (NPO) registered in Nevada.
The security concerns can be classified into three categories: data privacy, data integrity and secure social search.
In 2012, Update 1.100 was released, which gave the game's graphics got a major overhaul, along with a new battle mode: Control Points.
File Transfer: the software allows the user to transfer files between the local and remote computers, from within the client program's user interface.
Created by four friends, recording artist Ceréna Sierra, DJ Casey MQ, comedian Brad Allen, and digital creative Mingus New, Club Q began by hosting parties on Zoom in March 2020.
On 16 October 2024, it has been reported by Huawei that more than 13,000 apps and meta-services launched on HarmonyOS Next before commercial release on October 22nd 2024.
Notes Google Play — App figures reported by app intelligence firms in 2025 indicate a substantial reduction in listed Play Store apps (from ~3.4M at the start of 2024 to ~1.8M in 2025) following tightened policy enforcement and purges.
If you didn't choose to convert them, all Containers would be automatically opened after the conversion.
BlackBerry embraced open standards, and included a variety of open source libraries out of the box including: Lua, OpenAL, cocos2d-x, and Box2D, and has an open source repository that can be accessed at GitHub.com/blackberry.
Hatena Monolith (a service that lets users scan barcodes and post them to their collections or Twitter.
was rendered extinct in late 2005 by the United States Supreme Court's decision in MGM Studios, Inc.
Firefly technology was adopted by a number of well-known businesses, including the recommendation engine for barnesandnoble.com, ZDnet, launch.com (later purchased by Yahoo) and MyYahoo.
The First Berserker: Khazan In 2018, Nexon announced "Project BBQ", the working title for a 3D Dungeon Fighter Online video game.
Accounts on the Professional tier have a 20 GB upload limit per month, can export notes as PDF files, and can forward emails directly into Evernote, which includes a 20% discount on Adobe Acrobat Standard.
BuddyPress inherits and expands on the functional elements of the WordPress engine including themes, plugins, and widgets.
Researchers have been able to demonstrate how both app, time, and location-based targeting works in online communities.
This allows the network to verify users and achieve account portability on Nostr, as users have to sign all posts using their secret key, preventing any relay from tampering with content without invalidating the signature.
Technologies cited include Usenet, MUDs (Multi-User Dungeon) and their derivatives MUSHes and MOOs, Internet Relay Chat (IRC), chat rooms and electronic mailing lists.
Shortly after its release, the game was shut down in 2017 in favor of releasing another mobile game in the series.
Simple Machines Forum has 4 versions, SMF 1.0, SMF 1.1, SMF 2.0 and SMF 2.1 Feature add-on modifications SMF has a modification base repository for free modification hosting and tracking via the Simple Machines main site.
Nokia stated that this download capability will remain via URL contactsui.ovi.com even after web access to contact data has ended.
References Further reading After the Disaster: Civic Startups to the Rescue External links Official website No longer active, now an erectile disfunction website.
However, if the product was purchased using Operator Billing, then between 40%-50% of the price paid by the consumer is first given to the operator.
The RIAA and MPAA argued that Sony safe-harbor requires proof that the non-infringing use is the primary one; an incidental non-infringing use is not enough.
The app can deter callers by picking up the call, playing a recorded "out of service" message to the caller, and hang back up, making the caller think the line has been disconnected.
See also Social bookmarking List of social bookmarking sites List of Firefox extensions References Oliver Kaven (2005-06-01).
Moozone.com was a cloud-based online music storage (aka digital locker) service and digital music store.
PlayNow arena is organised on a per country basis, and is compatible with a wide range of Sony Ericsson phones.
IBAC investigation In December 2015, the Independent Broad-Based Anti-Corruption Commission (IBAC) announced that an investigation and public hearings would take place with regards to the tendering process of Ultranet.
A one-time $99 USD fee for developers to list an unlimited number of paid applications or up to five free applications yearly in the store was charged by Microsoft.
See also Comparison of software and protocols for distributed social networking, especially for open-source software.
In late 2010, a client for Intel-based Macintosh computers running Mac OS X version 10.6 or later was released.
External links Official website AltStore on GitHub Notes 1.^ AltStore PAL is only available on iPhone.
The acquisition marked a shift in strategy, bringing the platform under the umbrella of a digital media and app distribution company with a focus on high-growth mobile applications.
In April 2016, the app released a second version, with members now able to organize events and create groups.
Some of these users could have very serious life-threatening issues which these personal contexts could become very helpful to these users, as the issues are very complex.
See also Comparison of online backup services References Official site - About Diino BackupReview.info Interviews Jan Nilsson, CEO of Diino Online Backup Archived 2011-09-20 at the Wayback Machine External links Official site
Ultimately, it syncs all of media regardless of “file formats, folders, settings” and allows users to not worry about "file quality loss or cloud storage capacity." LIBOX also allows users to share their media collection with other LIBOX users.
Signer, Beat: "An Architecture for Open Cross-Media Annotation Services", Proceedings of WISE 2009, 10th International Conference on Web Information Systems Engineering, Poznan, Poland, October 2009 On Web Annotations: Promises and Pitfalls of Current Web Infrastructure.
A new anime adaptation titled "Reversal of Fate S2" was produced by Liden Films, directed by Noriyuki Abe, and written by Mayori Sekijima and Aoi Akashiro.
See also Collaborative filtering References External links Spanish Firefly - a Suck.com parody Firefly's corporate website at the Wayback Machine (archived December 28, 1996) HBS bulletin on Firefly
Hatena Imacoco Hatena Imacoco was a tool for sharing one's location on Hatena's services, with it commonly being used on the Japanese version of Hatena Haiku.
D2L's first virtual learning environment clients included University of Guelph, Virtual High School (Ontario), the University of Waterloo and Fanshawe College.
The platform does not require registration to join, but verification is necessary for public employees or partners to gain access to connections and information in the Grid.
July 18, 2011, Time Warner announced that news coverage from CNN and Headline News will be streamed live over the Internet and available for people to view on their laptops, smartphones, or tablets if they subscribe to certain paid TV services.
Technology AlterGeo was established in 2008 to build a Wi-Fi positioning technology on the basis of the PhD thesis of one of its founders.
Pink Visual recommends that consumers purchase legally and provides numerous methods for consumers to access their content legally.
The key issue in the copyright infringement case was the so-called "Sony safe-harbor" principle that was set by the Supreme Court over 21 years previously in Sony v.
The installation is not available through Google Play Store due to 4.5 Non-compete clause of Google Play Developer Distribution Agreement.
When the Valleyschwag service received over 1,500 subscribers, its customer service requirements increased dramatically.
Under this global deal, Telefónica users in Costa Rica, Guatemala, Panama, the UK, and Spain were also offered the promotion.
Yahoo Kids – oldest online search directory for children, until its discontinuation as of April 30, 2013.
Benchmark virtual communities Usenet, one of the original decentralized, distributed discussion group architectures.
Nostr is an open standard, and the majority of third-party apps that use Nostr are free and open-source.
At the end of February 2022, it was announced that the Mobilcom-Debitel brand would be discontinued in July of the same year in favor of freenet.
Using Nokia Ovi Suite or Nokia Map Loader on Microsoft Windows XP or Vista, users can download and preload map data and navigator voices to their mobile device.
As a result, support for the Amazon Appstore on Windows and apps installed from it would also end on March 5, 2025.
Creator+ D2L Brightspace Creator+ is a bundle within the Brightspace learning management system (LMS) developed by D2L (Desire2Learn).
Cisco acquired Scientific Atlanta in 2006 and Pure Digital (the maker of Flip Video cameras) in 2009.
Although bundled with most Android devices, the Play Store is only available on devices that are certified within the "Android Compatibility Program".
Investors The company's investors include Oliver Slipper, Nicole Junkermann, Cesc Fàbregas, Thierry Henry, Robin van Persie and Tony Parker.
This won the Bully Awards 2013 as a breakthrough technology-based product, the 2nd Apps4All contest as the Best App Using Google Services, and was named the Best Idea project at the international Tactrick Android Developer Cup.
In October 2015, Ukraine became the first country in Europe to join the U-Report program, growing to 68,273 participants by September 30, 2018.
pump.io was a brand new software package like StatusNet, but with a new protocol designed for general purpose activity streams outside of microblogging and ease-of-use for developers building on the technology, much like the transition from OMB to OStatus.
Unisys Corporation is a technology company founded in 1986 and headquartered in Blue Bell, Pennsylvania.
June 2020 Lady Gaga performed at Club Q via Zoom in June 2020, dedicating her performance to Marsha P.
These files could be obtained by converting from other files formats such as FBX or non-binary glTF.
Nostr (acronym for Notes and Other Stuff Transmitted by Relays) is an open protocol for decentralized message transmission, with the intention to be able to resist internet censorship while maintaining session integrity.
She approaches various bugs she hopes will be her friends, but they're scared away by her spidery reputation.
Virtual communities also provide the advantage of disintermediation in commercial transactions, which eliminates vendors and connects buyers directly to suppliers.
Aptoide is an online marketplace for mobile applications which runs on the Android and iOS operating systems.
It is significantly late, more than 80 per cent over its first announced budget, has very low uptake, and does not have originally intended functionality." The auditor general also found that the cost of Ultranet had reached more than $180 million.
Sideloaded apps are signed like a developer project for testing and will expire after 7 days with a free account or one year with a paid developer account, by which they will need to be refreshed or reinstalled.
This approach gives a user access to edit their data across multiple machines and operating system platforms from anywhere, but still view, input, and edit data when an internet connection is not available.
Different extensions to the Nostr protocol are called Nostr Implementation Possibilities, or "NIPs".
Club Q's first online event took place on that same Monday, March 16, 2020, with a modest 12 attendees.
Free play with micro-transactions These MMOGs are free to play, but players may optionally purchase in-game items or currency.
Workplace for Good was launched in June 2018 to provide a free version of Workplace for registered non-profits and staff of educational institutions.
In March 2022, Miniclip announced that it had reached 4 billion downloads worldwide with 8 Ball Pool alone accounting for 1 billion of them.
The service ran on Windows, Mac, Linux, Android, and iOS platforms, and it allowed users to create simple automated rules for protecting data by moving it into a Diino account.
In contrast, Get Satisfaction approaches the problem by helping companies think more like customers.
Users/content providers share the common goal of informing and becoming more informed about a shared geographic community or a community of ideas.
Collaborative software or groupware is application software designed to help people working on a common task to attain their goals.
Sources European Commission MEDIA Program: General Information European Commission MEDIA Program: Supported Projects References External links News Article on TheFestival.eu News Article on C21 News Article on PhoneContent.com SHORTZ!
If that request is accepted, the car chase starts with a time limit where the goal is to hit the runaway car until durability reaches zero.
The game is no longer operated by VIE; instead, fans and players of the game provide servers and technical updates.
History Quip was founded by Bret Taylor, a co-creator of Google Maps, CEO of FriendFeed, and the former CTO of Facebook, along with Kevin Gibbs, who founded Google App Engine.
Web Compatibility Test for Mobile Browsers – Version 2 A second version of the Web Compatibility Test for Mobile Browsers was released in January 2010, this time testing HTML5 elements.
See also List of Android app stores App store List of mobile app distribution platforms Google Play Store App Store Ovi Store BlackBerry World == References ==
The developed code was returned to the Pirate BBS developers who created Eagle BBS as an open source BBS with a Chinese language interface.
Dungeon & Fighter Mobile Dungeon & Fighter Mobile is the second mobile entry in the series released on March 24, 2022.
Its original design included two DS game card slots, because of demand from both fan communities and Nintendo employees, which consequently made it larger.
This helps keep the number of redundant threads (or the overall forum pollution) to a lower level as users who neglect to search for a topic and are posting a thread may find the answer to their question as they are creating the new thread.
On April 15 2020, Club Q featured a live DJ set by Rebecca Black (of Friday fame), who had recently come out as queer.
Guide was a US technology startup company developing a newsreader app that translates text from online news sources, blogs and social media streams into streaming audio and video.
See also ADONIS (software) References External links Quip Official Website Practice Management Software
Government abandonment In June 2013 the Napthine government announced that it had signed a $2.8 million contract with NEC to continue to support Ultranet until the end of December 2013, after which it would no longer be backed by the government.
In Hawaii in 2019, Puna Precious Plastic, with more than 1,000 members as a part of the Precious Plastic worldwide movement, collected about 1,000 pounds, which it planned to sort, shred and melt into plastic bricks and lumber for construction.
The Unit conducts a number of activities that promote engagement with Science and Technology in Belize, including through the ICT roadshow.
Ministers Subordinate organizations Turkmengaz Türkmennebit (Turkmenoil) Türkmenhimiýa Türkmengeologiýa Türkmennebitgazgurluşyk Turkmenbashy Oil Refinery == References ==
The Minister in charge of the MNRE (Ministry of New and Renewable energy) is the patron while the Secretary of MNRE is the ex-officio president of the association.
We can't continue to use oil and gas for 75 percent of our consumption when they make up seven percent of our domestic reserves.
Other contributions include "Defeating the Fossil Fuel Industry" in Not Too Late: Changing the Climate Story from Despair to Possibility (2023), and "Spill" in Fueling Culture: Energy, History, Politics (2017).
Clean Tech Law contemplates a diverse set of legal and policy issues related to the development and commercialization of clean technology.
It took charge of coal production, allocation of supplies of fuels, control of energy prices and petrol rationing during World War II.
The report described how the United Kingdom planned to achieve its legally binding target of 15 per cent share of energy from renewable sources by 2020.
The Executive Bureau assists the Council of Ministers by meet at least three times a year to review the budget, approve staff regulations, and develops an agenda for the Council of Ministers depending on their analyses of the organizations activities.
The first streamlined car was the Tropfenwagen introduced in 1921, named after its teardrop shape (the literal translation from German is "drop car").
While RECS guaranteed the source of the energy and prevented double-counting, it was not a label: these also guarantee other matters relating to the supplied electricity, such as the originating technology, the age of the plant, and the source of the energy.
NISOC is producing about 83% percent of all crude oil and 16% percent of natural gas produced in Iran.
Fears of an uprising led the Bolivian government to take measures essentially forcing the population to vote (announcing fines and other penalties for those who refused or boycotted) and warned that protesters against the referendum would be imprisoned.
Students at colleges where green buildings are being used will benefit by increasing their potential to gain knowledge.
Growth in open energy modelling Just two active open energy modelling projects were cited in a 2011 paper: OSeMOSYS and TEMOA.
Economic and energy modelling can be used by governmental or inter-governmental bodies as an advisory and analysis tool.
With the breakup of the USSR, Russia has lost access to the rich Caspian Basin off-shore and on-shore oil fields in the Central Asian states and Azerbaijan.
RECS International was founded in Brussels in 2002 and is a non-profit-making European association of market players trading in renewable energy certificates.
The first three days of the disruption cost the Zimbabwe's economy an estimated $17 million as the government extended its disruption to a full shutdown to prevent the use of VPN circumvention tools by demonstrators.
In fact, the process contributed to the growth of the Eurodollar market as a less-regulated rival to U.S.
At that time, Turntide also announced investment from Future Shape, the fund led by Nest founder Tony Fadell.
Since 1992 every year in March experts and decision makers from all over the world flock to Upper Austria to attend the events - in general the conference attracts between 900 and 1,000 participants from 55-60 countries.
Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) and the European Green Deal, which incentivize renewable energy adoption while reducing fossil fuel dependence.
It is built by the Department of Energy in the United States and maintained by the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.
In parallel to the World Sustainable Energy Days, the Energiesparmesse, an exhibition and trade show dedicated to renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, is held.
Energy sources Technical solutions under consideration include the further development of domestically grown biofuels, solar cells, fuel cells, wind farms, wave energy, a major increase in district heating schemes and greater use of geothermal heat pumps.
Under NMSA, the Cabinet Committee on Economic affairs released the restructured "National Bamboo Mission" in 2018 to last till the end of 14th Five Year Plan period.
This switch from kerosene use would lead to reduction in global carbon emissions leading to the firm earning carbon credits.
It also took over responsibility for electricity from the Ministry of War Transport and its predecessor the Ministry of Transport.
The main target of the One Less Nuclear Power Plant was to cut energy consumption by 2 million TOE, which is equivalent to the capacity of one nuclear power plant, mainly by directly engaging citizens in energy-saving and renewable energy generation.
This effort resulted in more powerful simulation engines released in the early 1970s, among those were BLAST, DOE-2, ESP-r, HVACSIM+ and TRNSYS.
A narrower pipe in the roof that fits snugly into a larger segment of the building can also be used.
It shares that responsibility with the Ministry of Business Affairs (responsible for banking and trade) and the Ministry of Fisheries (fishing making up some 40% of Iceland's exports).
Destruction of unsold goods: The EU's Ecodesign for Sustainable Products Regulation (ESPR) includes a ban on the destruction of unsold textiles and footwear, effectively prohibiting the common fashion industry practice of burning or landfilling excess synthetic inventory.
Due to improvements in recent years, Georgia has become a major exporter of electricity in the region, exporting 1.3 billion KWh in 2010.
Due to the large variety of hemp, the porosity differs from one type to another, therefore its thermal insulating abilities vary too.
2019: "Accelerating Energy Transformation" The 12th edition of Singapore International Energy Week (SIEW) took place from 29 October to 1 November 2019 at the Sands Expo and Convention Centre, Marina Bay Sands Singapore.
Desert climates have the highest radiative cooling potential due to low year-round humidity and cloud cover, while tropical climates have less potential due to higher humidity and cloud cover.
The Expo featured five pavilions, showcasing clean energy solutions from Australia, Brazil, Europe, Japan and Singapore.
United States leadership is widely seen as critical in international emissions reduction efforts, and particularly in carbon pricing, as this would encourage other countries to follow suit with similar legislation.
It is also accredited to a range of regional bodies that include OSPAR, the Helsinki Commission and the Barcelona Convention, and provides a conduit for advocacy and debate between the upstream industry and the European Union (EU).
The current interim mines and energy minister is president Frans Kapofi, after Natangwe Ithete was dismissed on 26 October 2026.
In Mexico, the Secretariat of Energy (Spanish: Secretaría de Energia) is the government department in charge of production and regulation of energy.
In 1939 the Petroleum Board assumed responsibility for the coordination of the petroleum 'pool' for oil supplies (except oil for the Royal Navy).
The religious concept of "Third Rome" only saw a major revival in the mid-19th century among Russian Slavophiles.
The exposure gained the interest of the public and the media, and while many considered it as a cult Ratzon and his wives claimed it to be a cooperative.
Life, publishing, legacy Bernhardt was born in Bischofswerda, in the Kingdom of Saxony, part of the German Empire, in 1875, to a innkeeping family.
Ahn's son Ahn Kwang-sup (born 1954) is an elder in the church and continues to expound on his father's work.
It was exposed as a forgery in 1920 by Lucien Wolf and the following year by Philip Graves in The Times.
For this reason, religious and historical experts thought the animation to be displayed for children and teenagers.
Between 1990 and 2001, he served eleven years of an eighteen-year sentence on a Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) conviction after he and several other Nation of Yahweh members were convicted of conspiracy for their ex-followers' role in more than a dozen murders.
A similar transformation occurred in Kashmir, either during the lifetime of Shams ud-Din Iraqi, who died in 1527, or in the subsequent decades, coinciding with the brief reign of the Chak dynasty.
The other is a hanging scroll from the Masuda family's emakimono Jigoku zoshi (ja), which was cut out and reworked into hanging scrolls.
These periods of concealment (dawr al-satr) might end with the renewed public manifestation of the imam, or continue until the present day.
In defense of his view he wrote Kitab al-Ghayba, which became the framework for the works of later Waqifite authors on the issue of al-Ghayba (the occultation).
Vukašin murdered him with the help of the voivode's young wife, Vidosava, despite Jevrosima's self-sacrificing attempt to save her brother.
Some early biblical manuscripts containing the text of this chapter in Hebrew are of the Masoretic Text tradition, which includes the Codex Cairensis (895), the Petersburg Codex of the Prophets (916), Aleppo Codex (10th century), and Leningrad Codex (1008).
Because Marko drank the samodiva's milk, he acquired supernatural powers and became a Bulgarian freedom fighter against the Turks.
It is quoted that Imam Mahdi taught du'a Faraj to Muhammad ibn Ahmad ibn Abi Layth, who was sheltered to Kadhimiya from the fear of being killed.
London and treason Around Easter 1591, Hacket travelled to London at Wigginton's suggestion, staying at a lodging house outside Smithfield.
Kohanim studying Although anti-Zionist, the Toldos Aharon chassidic movement has established a specialized study program for Jewish priests (kohanim) to prepare for Temple service.
The attacker was then brought to Menteng police station, and later transferred to Menteng Health Center.
He returns to Laban's house and orders Zoram, one of Laban's servants, to bring him the brass plates.
In Medina, the deputation stayed with the daughter of al-Harith, a woman of the Ansar from the Banu Najjar.
Membership The members of the group, which numbered around 1,000, appeared to be mostly poor Shi'a farmers from an agricultural area 19 kilometres northeast of Najaf, but they also seemed to have been heavily armed.
There is a focus on the cathartic release of emotions in the teachings, since emotional “errors” inside of people, which are emotions that are not in harmony with love, block the flow of God’s Love into the human soul.
The Magharians (Arabic: Al-Maghariyyah, 'people of the caves') or Maghāriya were, according to Jacob Qirqisani, a pre-Christian and proto-Gnostic Jewish sect founded in the 1st century BCE.
They cited various midrashic statements to fuel their ecstasy as to the imminent revelation of the Messiah, and some of them drank and toasted l’chaim and danced before and during the funeral – an act that shocked many admirers of Schneerson across the Jewish world.
She claimed to have direct contact with the 12th Shia Imam Muhammad al-Mahdi, and was a self-proclaimed miracle worker, despite her lack of wearing the customary Muslim hijab (veil).
In 1938, when Buckland Abbey was partly destroyed by fire, the drum was rescued and taken to safety at Buckfast Abbey.
In Judaism, the messiah will be a future Jewish king from the line of David and redeemer of the Jewish people and humanity.
In rabbinic thinking, the reestablishment of the Davidic kingdom was tied to the Messiah, who was to be a descendant of King David.
It can refer to the full circuit – the seen and unseen halves – of the stars across the dome of the sky, or the vault of heaven (Job 22:14) extending "in a half-circle from horizon to horizon", or a circular observable horizon (cf.
On December 4, 2005, former Prime Minister Iyad Allawi was assaulted by a mob in Najaf, where the Mahdi Army is influential.
Another eminent person attributed to the Waqifites was Yazid ibn Khalifa al-Harithi, who was regarded as one of the companions of Ja'far al-Sadiq (who reportedly praised him).
The city of Shazand is said to contain a cavern system where Kay Khosrow is hidden along with other immortals.
Its long-term aims are to build the third Temple in Jerusalem on the Temple Mount—the site occupied by the Dome of the Rock—and to reinstate korbanot and the other rites described in the Hebrew Bible and Jewish legal literature.
Disraeli, – I am desired by the Queen to reply to your letter of the 14th instant, respecting the appointment of a successor to the late Dr.
but shab barat festival have a long history." Iraq In Iraq, people give children candies as they walk through their neighborhoods.
This enthronement formula (Qal perfect third person masculine singular מָלַךְ [malakh], followed by the name of the king) is used in 2 Samuel 15:10; 1 Kings 1:11, 13, 18; 2 Kings 9:13.
Aftermath The surviving pilgrims were able to eventually reach Karbala after their airfares were paid for by wealthy Shias.
Wrede's broad concept of the Messianic Secret also involved the use of parables by Jesus, and in his criticism Schweitzer called it the weakest element of Wrede's approach.
There is also a 1999 abridged Esperanto translation by Shigeki Maeda, titled Diaj Revelacioj, with a total of 837 numbered paragraphs.
Robert Rozier, a former NFL player and a devotee of Mitchell's, confessed to seven of these murders.
Three years later, he succeeded his brother Maurice, who had died without male heirs, and became the 3rd Earl of Desmond.
Among the ventures were Jolly Makers and Happy Day food canteens, Deluxe bakeries makers of Goodluck bread, the properties housing this venture were then expanded to include barber shops and lodging.
These were particularly prevalent in the fifth century, and continued to appear until the Song dynasty.
As per Chabad-Lubavitch messianism, Menachem Mendel Schneerson openly declared his deceased father-in-law, the former 6th Rebbe of Chabad Lubavitch, to be the Messiah.
In 1860, the Taiping rebels were successful in taking Hangzhou and Suzhou to the east, but failed to take Shanghai, which marked the beginning of the decline of the Kingdom.
Furthermore, fine grain materials have been shown to act as better chemical barriers than sand caps.
Collaborations involved with ARES included Dignitas Technologies, Design Interactive (DI), the University of Central Florida's Institute for Simulation and Training, and the U.S.
Luna E-8-5M No.412 was launched at 04:04:56 UTC on 16 October 1975 atop a Proton-K 8K78K launch vehicle with a Blok D-1 upper stage, flying from Site 81/23 at the Baikonur Cosmodrome.
Related compounds Urea is the parent for a class of chemical compounds that share the same functional group.
There is a stretch of nearly 2 billion years of lunar history that planetary scientists have not been able to date because the Apollo missions did not retrieve any young rocks.
The brothers were transported to Ba Sing Se, where there was a bounty on the two for aiding the airbenders' escape, and incarcerated.
Recharge in rural areas is heavily supported by precipitation, and this is the opposite for urban areas.
Naga is much more graceful than Lina and has an outrageously loud boisterous 'noblewoman' (ojousama) laugh (which Kanzaka said is similar to the laughter of Naga's mother) that most people in the Slayers world find unbearably obnoxious (to the point of rendering them physically powerless).
A high phosphate concentration is a common indicator of decaying organic matter, such as bones, tissue, or excrement.
Rendezvous with the 88P/Howell would happen in May 2031 and the interactions would last up to 294 days.
They are typically classified as oxisols (USDA soil taxonomy) or ferralsols (World Reference Base for Soil Resources).
This historic method of building construction is mainly localised to Haddenham and the surrounding local area in Buckinghamshire.
She could permit or prevent mining in certain places, give or take wealth, and sometimes employs lizards under her control as her minions to conduct her work.
He also sometimes refers to the character as something playing on the object's name or appearance (such as calling a grapefruit "Apefruit").
Chronic exposure to trichloroethylene has also been linked to an increased risk of Parkinson's disease.
Because most sands are highly siliceous, Psamments are also extremely low in all essential nutrients, most especially phosphorus and are highly acidic in all except very arid climates.
Uehara, Gore; Gillman, Gavin (1981), Mineralogy Chemistry and Physics of Tropical Soils With Variable Charge Colloids, Westview Tropical Agriculture Series
Furthermore, the shear strength of discontinuities influences the stress distribution in a soil or rock mass.
At this point, there was only the formation of very strong marine clay, which is found all over the world and highly stable, but with its own unique geotechnical problems.
Like topsoil, it is composed of a variable mixture of small particles such as sand, silt and clay, but with a much lower percentage of organic matter and humus.
The Henry's Law constant, sometimes called coefficient, is specific to each compound and depends on the system temperature.
Aleurite is an unconsolidated sediment with a texture intermediately between sand and clay, similar to silt, with particle sizes ranging from 0.01 to 0.1 millimetres (0.00039 to 0.00394 in).
The only cadmium mineral of importance, greenockite (CdS), is nearly always associated with sphalerite (ZnS).
Local topography related tillage erosion is most pronounced in hummocky landscapes with eroded hilltops that often exhibit a light soil color due to the loss of organic-rich topsoil, a phenomenon often mistakenly assumed to be the result of water erosion.
The deformation caused by the foot expands the sand under it and the water in the sand moves to fill the new space between the grains.
It is readily available (bagged, at nursery suppliers), and its formulation generally consists of a combination of wheat straw, dried blood, horse manure and ground chalk, composted together.
Considering specific density of 1.1 ton/m3 confirmed reserves in Armenia amount to 165 million tons.
A rotational slump occurs when a slump block, composed of sediment or rock, slides along a concave-upward slip surface with rotation about an axis parallel to the slope.
Whereas the topsoil tends to be the depth of greatest physical, chemical, and biological activity, the subsoil is the depth of most deposition.
The US Navy report denied any signs of nuclear waste dumping and instead related the traces of uranium to volcanic activity.
Its practical uses include incorporation into paving materials for roads and driveways, residential gardening materials in arid environments, and various types of walkways and heavy-use paths in parks.
Shrub swamp water comes from run-off, streams and rivers and the water moves in and out of the swamp throughout the year.
On 3 June 2020, eight buildings were swept into the sea by a landslide in Kråkneset in Alta Municipality in Norway.
Two workers will usually cooperate on the same strip of the roof, wide enough to be comfortably within reach.
The show follows a team of sand sculptors as they travel to various locales to create elaborate sand structures for their business clients.
House Rock had numerous bullet hole-like marks where micrometeoroids from space had impacted the rock.
Semi-autonomous features, such as grade control and automated digging cycles on excavators, are also becoming common, assisting operators in performing tasks with greater speed and precision.
Most of the tests do not sink as individual particles; about 99% of them are first consumed by some other organism, and are then aggregated and expelled as large fecal pellets, which sink much more quickly and reach the ocean floor in only 10–15 days.
Epichlorohydrin, butylene oxide, N-methylpyrrole and ethyl acetate are common stabilisers for TCE, with epichlorohydrin being the most persistent and effective.
There are many ways to predict frost depth, including factors related to air temperature, soil temperature, and soil properties.
Macroptilium atropurpureum, commonly referred to as purple bush-bean, or siratro is a perennial legume recognized by its climbing, dense, green vines and deep purple flowers.
Military use In military engineering, earthworks are, more specifically, types of fortifications constructed from soil.
Officially, the Soviets announced that "the lunar landing in the complex mountainous conditions proved to be unfavorable." Later, in 1975, the Soviets published data from Luna 18's continuous-wave radio altimeter that determined the mean density of the lunar topsoil.
state soils References USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service State Soils New Jersey (PDF) Archived 2017-05-07 at the Wayback Machine
Therefore, nutrient reabsorption during senescence presents an opportunity for a plant's future net primary production use.
The match against Oxford Universities in 2000 (which included Oxford Brookes University) is included here in the Oxford University totals.
The Rochester Raiders won a perfect season in 2008 in the Continental Indoor Football League, but withdrew from that league during the playoffs in a dispute.
This article contains lists of achievements in major senior-level international rugby union, rugby sevens, rugby league and wheelchair rugby tournaments according to first-place, second-place and third-place results obtained by teams representing different nations.
After Sri Lanka awarded Test status on 17 February 1982 as eighth Test playing nation, they had to wait until 6 September 1985, where Sri Lanka recorded their first Test win by beating India, in the second match of the series by 149 runs at the P Sara Oval, Colombo.
Long course (50m) Men Women Mixed relay Short course (25m) Men Women Notes References General Bermudian Long Course records 26 January 2026 updated Bermudian Short Course records 30 November 2025 updated Specific External links Bermuda Amateur Swimming Association website BASA records subpage
Natural track events All competitive disciplines *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
The Buffalo Sabres have the longest active playoff series win drought at 18 seasons and also formerly had the longest active post-season appearance drought at 14 seasons, which is now held by the Detroit Red Wings at 10 seasons.
Skaters usually begin rotating the jump as soon as they leave the ice, but generally have less than two-thirds of a second to complete their rotation.
This article lists all-time records for the National Lacrosse League, as well as the predecessors Major Indoor Lacrosse League and Eagle Pro Box Lacrosse League.
The Canadian Junior Open is divided into eight categories — Boys Under-19, Boys Under-17, Boys Under-15, Boys Under-13, Girls Under-19, Girls Under-17, Girls Under-15 and Girls Under-13.
If the number of gold medals is identical, the silver and bronze medals are used as tie-breakers (in that order).
Olympic medalists Amateur Era 1896 1900 1904 1908 Outdoor Indoor 1912 Outdoor Indoor 1920 1924 Open Era 1988 1992 1996 2000 2004 2008 2012 2016 2020 2024 Athlete medal leaders Players currently active in bold.
They are ordered by their seating capacity, that is the maximum number of spectators that the stadium can accommodate in seated areas.
The following are the national records in athletics in the Dominican Republic maintained by Federación Dominicana de Asociaciones de Atletismo (FDAA).
Some clubs will only have black and white, others will include a brown belt for advanced kyū grades and at the elementary school level it is common to see a green belt for intermediate levels.
The Boston Celtics hold the longest consecutive NBA Finals appearance streak with ten appearances between 1957 and 1966.
Despite being considered an example of flawed technique, it is not currently penalised by the technical panel.
Older than Genoa and Torino is Associazione Sportiva Dilettantistica Fanfulla, a sports club founded in Lodi in 1873, but its football section was established thirty-five years later in 1908.
The system is designed to be both predictive and retrodictive in nature, although in practice it has proven to be more strongly predictive than retrodictive.
Elo's original K-factor estimation was made without the benefit of huge databases and statistical evidence.
This is a list of current women's professional boxing rankings, which includes the latest rankings by each one of the sport's four major sanctioning bodies, as well as other well-regarded sites and entities.
Hines went on to win the 1968 Olympic final in 9.9 seconds, rounded down from his FAT of 9.95, making it the first non-wind-assisted electronic sub-10-second performance.
In some forms of one-day cricket, such as Twenty20, a Super Over or a bowl-out is used as a tiebreaker to decide a result that would otherwise be a tie.
Organization These records have been registered in the official competitions organized by the different federations which have managed this sport at a mondial level, across the time (ISS, FISV, FIS, ...).
Sent to the Kentucky Derby, the colt fractured a pastern in his right foreleg during the race and finished sixteenth.
FIDE awarded Sultan Khan the Honorary Grandmaster title on February 2, 2024, almost 58 years after his death and over 120 years after his birth in 1903.
A winning team therefore always earns more points than its initial rating, increasing its overall average rating.
Stud record Retired to stud duty, Vanlandingham met with modest success as the sire of 151 winners of 508 races.
The following are the national records in athletics in Slovakia maintained by its national athletics federation: Slovak Athletic Federation (SAZ).
Three-point field goal percentage and free throw percentage are usually kept as additional statistics.
Calvin Smith recorded a world record of 9.93 seconds in Colorado Springs, Colorado on 3 July 1983, at altitude, and became the first sprinter to run under ten seconds twice, in August that year.
Indoor volleyball, beach volleyball and sitting volleyball Men and women *Defunct National Olympic Committees (NOCs) and National Paralympic Committees (NPCs) or historical teams are shown in italic.
Since the first round of the playoffs normally consists of eight series, there will always be sixteen teams on this list (of the thirty-two teams in the NHL).
In motion picture venues, the "limit of seating capacity is determined by the maximal viewing distance for a given size of screen", with image quality for closer viewers declining as the screen is expanded to accommodate more distant viewers.
Defensive rating or defensive efficiency is a statistic used in basketball to measure an individual player's or team's efficiency at preventing the other team from scoring points.
Results from before 2017, during which FIBA Asia and FIBA Oceania held separate championships, will continue to figure into the rankings (until 2025 via "time decay").
b The Bears were named the NFL Champions in 1932 after winning an unofficial playoff game played indoors due to extremely cold weather.
The three longest championship droughts in history were ended recently by the Red Sox (85 seasons, ending in 2004), the White Sox (87 seasons, ending in 2005), and the Cubs (107 seasons, ending in 2016).
vs Edmonton, Oct 12, 1991) 561 – Sam Etcheverry (for Montreal vs Hamilton, Sept 29, 1956) 558 – Kent Austin (for Saskatchewan vs B.C., Aug.
The IBJJF requires a practitioner remain a purple belt for a minimum of 18 months prior to achieving a brown belt.
Among the current 32 NHL teams, ten have never won the Stanley Cup, with the oldest of them being the Vancouver Canucks and the Buffalo Sabres (53 seasons).
Stats Perform (formerly STATS, LLC and STATS, Inc.) is a British sports AI company formed through the merger of Stats and Perform.
Sportradar will also use its integrity services to monitor betting on all NFL games and will have the right to distribute live audio-visual feeds of NFL games to sportsbooks in certain international markets.
Polls do not play a role in determining CFP participants; instead, these teams are chosen by a selection committee similar to that used in the NCAA basketball tournament selection process.
This is a list of the oldest documented football competitions, played at school, club, national and international levels.
Lady Enid is Lord Edgar's second wife, though he has yet to recover entirely from the passing of his first wife, Irma Vep.
In July 2025, it ranked number 47 on Rolling Stone's list of "The 100 Best Movies of the 21st Century." Robotic recreations In 2012, Mike McMaster, an American robotics hobbyist, began working on his own model of WALL-E.
The game follows the course of their adventure as they 'sail' between the moons of the Nebula searching for a missing roboticist called Janniqi Renba.
He prefers to wear a beard, as he is self-conscious about the dimple in his chin (which he calls a cleft), but Amelia, who hates the beard and adores the dimple, makes him shave it at the earliest possible opportunity.
Kovacs and Schneider rescue Tanya Wardani, the archaeologue who coordinated the gate's discovery, from a prison camp.
However, Lo Sai does not realize that this power only works within five feet of the jade; he goes to rob a bank by himself and is taken to an asylum as a result.
Despite Kanaya knocking him unconscious to protect him, Karkat participates in the final battle, assisting Jake in defeating the leprechauns.
1964) was a new origin story that depicted Dan Garrett coming into possession of a mystical Egyptian scarab that granted him superpowers and beginning his career as the Blue Beetle.
References External links Hold That Hypnotist at IMDb Hold That Hypnotist at the TCM Movie Database (archived version) Hold That Hypnotist at the AFI Catalog of Feature Films
Franco Nuovo of Radio-Canada described being overwhelmed by Hochelaga, comparing the cinematography to paintings and finding the abundant symbolism erased any dullness that the historic subject matter could have threatened.
Adaptations The story was adapted for television as part of the NBC Television anthology series Your Show Time, airing February 11, 1949.
In 2013 it was released on DVD again in the US as part of the "Doctor Who: The Doctors Revisited 1–4" box set, alongside The Aztecs, The Tomb of the Cybermen and Spearhead from Space.
However, during the ending they would be stated to share the same existence, and had to go on different paths.
The main idea was connecting these two series was to have protagonists from two different manga with different personalities and designs.
Attractions Tomb Raider: The Ride (2002–2007) Tomb Raider: Firefall (2005–2008) References External links Official website
The Big Bang Theory: "The Precious Fragmentation" has the main characters returning from a garage sale with a box of random television and movie collectibles.
In 2017, IndieWire ranked Picard as the number one best character on Star Trek: The Next Generation.
Influence This story, along with several of Irving's others, was influential in American folklore tales of Pirates and buried treasure.
Talisman's spirit traveled back in time to learn about her incarnation as Nahita of the Tribe of the Moon, and her first defeat of Llan.
The Living Monolith (Ahmet Abdol) is a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
Jones in his debut in the 1989 film Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, while Lloyd Owen portrays him in The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles.
Series overview Series One Series Two Series Three References External links Time Team Official Website Time Team Official YouTube Channel Time Team Podcast at AudioBoom
They provided sounds like grunts, gasps, and the word "No!" for when Lara is unable to perform an action.
Chang's China Bistro to try to trick the Chinese people into telling them when the "invasion" is set to occur.
Morgan about writing the trilogy series of Takeshi Kovacs: Altered Carbon, Broken Angels and Woken Furies: Richard K.
Before the passage of the Video Recordings Act 1984, it was one of 82 "video nasties" in the UK: films whose video tapes could be confiscated and destroyed by police on the grounds of obscenity.
Other media Elora Danan also appears as the central character in a series of novels called the Chronicles of the Shadow War trilogy, set about fifteen years after the events of the original film.
Pyne meets with Mrs Oliver to congratulate her for designing a successful adventure for two of his clients.
One-time suspects In 1986, Super Cluedo Challenge and Super Sleuth were released in the UK, introducing the second wave of new board-game characters: Captain Brown (Super Cluedo Challenge) - A lower-class, drunk seaman who arrived at the mansion under mysterious circumstances.
Therefore, the entry to the underground hallway filled with snakes, which protects the anklet, is opened.
Some of Gibson's recorded sounds were kept in the final game, although the main spoken dialogue was later recorded by Shelley Blond.
He was an extremely talented individual and I was elated to have the chance to write music for his game, so I put my all into it.
It was later released by Echo Bridge Home Entertainment on June 5, 2007 as a three-disk pack with Raging Sharks (2005), and Lifepod (1993).
However, when he refuses to drive Shelly to a book fair on Halloween night, she destroys the packaged Halloween special, prompting Randy to ask the police to put her in jail for the night.
The Minotaur then threatens Iolaus, and Hercules ends up killing him by kicking him onto a stalagmite as Zeus arrives.
Although it was part of the video-on-demand service, the series did not appear on the Kabillion website until the site's April 2012 relaunch.
Capcom director Yoshiki Okamoto commented that the game was part of a broader strategy of Capcom at the time to appeal to a wider audience by using established characters from other media, as their original characters could be too niche.
The story follows Tribonian as he proceeds to secure the emperor Justinian I's permission and support to do just that, and follows him on his successful if thankless mission (Justinian may be supportive, but he is far from grateful).
A large mummy cat in the room disturbs Margaret's cat, Silvio, and the doctor suspects Silvio is guilty of the scratch marks on Trelawny's arm.
Alfred Jones Alfred (アルフレッド・ジョーンズ, Arufureddo Jōnzu) likes to study old cultures, strange languages, and treasures.
At the D23 Expo in September, Kevin Pollak was revealed to be reprising his role from the film, with Christian Slater also being announced as part of the cast.
Construction sets According to BrickLink, The Lego Group released a total of 22 Lego sets and promotional polybags as part of Lego Indiana Jones theme.
The series has attached a number of stereotypes onto her role as an Archaeologist throughout the series.
They encounter another Styx patrol, and Uncle Tam kills a member of the Styx, whom he calls Crawfly, but is mortally wounded in the fight.
It was also shown by Sky1 and Five in the United Kingdom, Network 2 (as part of the children's strand The Den in Ireland), Channel 2 in Jordan, ZBC in Zimbabwe,KBC in Kenya, Fun Channel in The Middle East, Kids Channel in Israel, Canal Famille in Québec, Canada and by YTV in Canada.
For passenger automobiles, section 280F(a)(1)(A) limits the depreciation deduction by listing the amounts a taxpayer can deduct in the years following its purchase.
Winston Peters has critiqued KiwiSaver as a 'billion dollar rort' by the finance industry and proposed alternatively that private KiwiSaver funds should be invested in a government run "KiwiFund" which would invest mainly in New Zealand assets and infrastructure.
He spent most of the year (perhaps wisely) in Wales, preaching the crusade, accompanied by the chronicler Giraldus Cambrensis.
Relevant Internal Revenue Code sections Section 6109(a) of the Internal Revenue Code provides (in part) that "When required by regulations prescribed by the Secretary [of the Treasury or his delegate] [ .
The review was a "root and branch" review, restricted only in that it could not consider increasing the rate or broadening the base of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), imposing tax on superannuation payments to retirees over 60 years of age, or already-announced personal income tax commitments.
Though it was used to refer to a tax on meat or slaughtering, the word korobka (Russian: коробка) actually means "box" in Russian.
The nomenclature of goods has been selected taking into account the capabilities of Russian companies to substitute imports of products from unfriendly countries.
Revenue stamps of the Gold Coast were issued by the British Colony of the Gold Coast (modern Ghana) between 1899 and the early 20th century.
This extension only gives more time for self-employed individuals and their spouses more time to file their returns; any balance owing is still due on April 30 and arrears interest will be charged even if the return is filed before the extended deadline.
Other taxes may be retained if they serve a specific policy purpose such as discouraging smoking or traffic congestion.
994; 113th Congress) – a bill that aims to make information on federal expenditures more easily accessible and transparent.
Overview The UK government introduced the Insurance Premium Tax to raise revenue from the insurance sector, which was viewed as being under-taxed, and not subject to Value Added Tax.
An example of this method would be: A 50% reduction for the first $10,000 income, a 40% reduction for the next $5,000 income, a 30% reduction for the next $5,000 in income.
The numeral design was reissued in 1961 denominated in South African rand, and these are the last Cape revenues.
However, it has signed multiple information-exchange agreements, including the Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters or the Multilateral Competent Authority Agreement on Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information.
Adjusted cost base (ACB) is used in the Canadian tax system to refer to the cost of an investment adjusted for several tax-related items including acquisition costs.
Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) is a type of indirect tax levied on general insurance premiums in the United Kingdom.
Inheritance and gift tax A single law regulates both inheritance tax and gift tax, requiring the payment of rates from 7% to 50% both on transfers following death and on gifts among the living.
Origins of the modern agency start in 1918 with the establishment of Finance and Tax departments within the Lithuanian Ministry of Finance.
In 1189, he was involved in a war with Philip and his own son Richard the Lionheart, and was accused of spending the tithe on provisions for this war.
The eight-per-thousand tax has significantly helped the Piedmontese Waldensians, a Protestant community whose origins predate the Reformation, the Waldensians have only about 25,000 enlisted members but about 412,000 Italians support them and their charitable works.
Types Any government-provided number that can be used in the US as a unique identifier when interacting with the IRS is a TIN, though none of them are referred to exclusively as a Taxpayer Identification Number.
These exist in a number of different watermarks and perforations and continued to be issued until 1951 (with the exception of the Japanese occupation from 1941–45).
The table is not exhaustive in representing the true tax burden to either the corporation or the individual in the listed country.
Income tax Employment income earned is subject to a progressive income tax, which applies to all who are in the workforce.
In popular culture On 27 June 2007, the day of his resignation as Prime Minister, Tony Blair jokingly remarked during his final Prime Minister's Questions about receiving his P45: I received the following communication by urgent letter yesterday: "Details of employee leaving work: Surname Blair.
The Board also needs to build the committee (AU) which consists of three to five people, to prepare matters for discussion in the Board.
However, certain government benefits (such as the Canada Groceries and Essentials Benefit and Canada Child Tax Benefit) are only paid if a T1 return is filed for the year.
References External links Information on Individual Income Tax Income Tax Act Singapore Personal Income Tax Rates
Partial income splitting models allow only a part of the income to be transferred among spouses in order to balance such criteria.
The Special Department of Federal Revenue of Brazil (Portuguese: Secretaria Especial da Receita Federal do Brasil), most commonly referred to as Receita Federal (RFB), is the Brazilian federal revenue service agency and a secretariat of the Ministry of the Economy.
A registered seller has a duty to issue a Qualified Invoice to a buyer when making a taxable transaction in selling goods or rendering services.
Typical non-domiciled UK residents include senior company executives, bankers, lawyers, business owners and international recording artists; see list of people with non-domiciled status in the UK.
Meanwhile, the supervisors would make regular spot-checks on the excisemen in their districts and report any anomalies or errors in their accounts.
89) was an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that consolidated enactments relating to excise duties on mechanically propelled vehicles, and to the licensing and registration of such vehicles, in Great Britain.
United States of Colombia Later in 1861 the United States of New Granada became the United States of Colombia and stamps were issued marked Estados Unidos de Colombia from 1864.
This was printed in London, in a similar design to a series of Transvaal revenues which had been issued a year earlier.
The Australia's Future Tax System Review, colloquially known as the Henry Tax Review was commissioned by the Rudd government in 2008 and the final report was published in 2010.
References External links Voluntary Disclosure Agreements (96-576) Taxes - Voluntary Disclosure Voluntary Disclosure Program Guideline Voluntary Disclosure and Compliance Program
See also Postage stamps and postal history of Zambia Postage stamps and postal history of Zimbabwe Revenue stamps of the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland References External links Rhodesian Study Circle Rhodesia Revenues as Exhibited by Sandy Jardine Tax Stamps Collection
All legal entities that were liable for the corporate tax were also liable for the flat-rate tax except some newly established corporations (whose capital was composed of at least 50% of cash contributions) and certain not-for-profit organizations.
Structured installment sales are distinct from monetized installment sale transactions, in which a seller both defers gain and immediately borrows against the installment obligation.
On the other hand, Smith reported that others objected to the tax on the grounds of its inequality, since it was thought to have a disproportionate impact on the poor.
A 2015 Eurostat report showed that from 2010 to 2015, almost 23% of Ireland's GDP was now represented by untaxed multinational net royalty payments, thus implying that Irish GDP was now circa 130% of Irish GNI (e.g.
This alternative usually requires the assistance of a third party service provider who will require a fee for their services and the compliance cost might outweigh the benefits (i.e.
First, he found employment in the county assessor's office and in 1961 established Hillcrest vineyards on 20 acres of land near the Callahan Ridge.
Lebanese Christians, and some Shia Muslims believe Qana to have been the actual location of this event.
Nitrogen is a vital nutrient in the growth and development of yeasts and is usually provided from the wine grapes themselves.
It has also been proposed that DMDC inhibits the enzymes alcohol dehydrogenase and glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase by causing the methoxycarbonylation of their histidine components.
The process itself is a slow one with compounds such as the anthocyanins needing to pass through the cell membrane of the skins to come into contact with the wine.
B Back-Blend Blending unfermented, fresh grape juice into a fully fermented wine in order to add sweetness.
Several species of acetic acid bacteria are used in industry for production of certain foods and chemicals.
Gao has spoken out about how the climate crisis is affecting wine production, in particular causing damage to the vines due to increasingly harsh winters.
The process produces wastewater, pomace, and lees that require collection, treatment, and disposal or beneficial use.
Here he ran a vineyard which, at approximately 30 hectares, was the largest in the so-called eastern borderlands of what became, after 1918 the Polish Republic.
Manual riddling is still done for some Prestige Cuvées in Champagne, but has otherwise been largely abandoned because of the high labour costs.
Food Microbiol.Volume 163, issue 2-3, 204-213 External links International conference on acetic acid bacteria
Later developments Around 1910 management of the company passed to his son Robert, followed in 1928 by Robert's nephew (Thomas' grandson) Thomas Mayfield Hardy.
On 11 May 1910, he married May Marian Byard (died 1967), the eldest daughter of Hahndorf College headmaster D.
Ernest Singer is a winemaker in Japan known for promoting the use of the Koshu grape in Japanese wines.
It can also affect the sensory aspects of a wine, making the mouthfeel seem smoother and adding potential complexity in the flavor and aroma of the wine.
After two years working at various vineyards, he began working in the cellar at Château La Fleur Cailleau.
Topciu's mandate in Sfatul ended on May 18, 1918, when the Bulgarian-and-Gagauz delegation replaced him with another community member.
With red wines, the must is pressed after primary fermentation, which separates the skins and other solid matter from the liquid.
In December 1943, Thorn was elected deputy leader of the Country Party under Arthur Watts, replacing William Patrick.
Sparkling wines include wines labelled as Champagne, Cava, Mousseux, Crémant, Espumoso, Sekt and Spumante.
Yeast ceases its activity whenever all of the sugar in must has been converted into other chemicals or whenever the alcohol content has reached 15% alcohol per unit volume; a concentration strong enough to halt the enzymatic activity of almost all strains of yeast.
He scored the cantata for four vocal soloists, a four-part choir and a Baroque instrumental ensemble of trombone to reinforce the bass in the opening chorus, horn to support the soprano in the last movement, two oboes d'amore, strings and continuo.
Grape-treading or grape-stomping is part of the method of maceration used in traditional wine-making.
The method is known as the méthode champenoise, but the Champagne producers have successfully lobbied the European Union to restrict the use of that term within the EU only to wines produced in Champagne.
Viticulture In 1903, he graduated from Wincenty Pol state secondary school Wincenty Pol state secondary school at Ternopil, obtaining high marks in his school final exams.
Early life Thorn was born in York, Western Australia, to Isabella (née Blakiston) and Thomas Henry Thorn.
She sourced the organic fruit from her orchard and the Kiwi Growers Cooperative Society in Arunachal Pradesh.
Potassium – important for the uptake and utilization of phosphate Biotin – involved in the synthesis of proteins, fatty acids and nucleic acids.
The keys and time signatures are taken from the book on all cantatas by the Bach scholar Alfred Dürr, using the symbol for common time (4/4).
Elyakum Ostashinski or Elyakum Austshinsky (Hebrew: אליקום אוסטשינסקי), born 1909, died 1983, was the first mayor of Rishon LeZion, and later CEO of the Vineyard Association.
Négociants, who are also called wine merchants/traders, were the dominant force in the wine trade until the last 25 years for various reasons: Historically the owners of vineyards and producers of wine had no direct access to buyers.
Personal life A Roman Catholic, Reynell was a member of the Adelaide Hunt Club and enjoyed polo in his spare time.
Bohun had a reputation for being an excellent physician and was hired to perform as the personal physician for Thomas West, 3rd Baron De La Warr, who was the first governor of Virginia appointed by the Virginia Company of London.
Biblical account The second chapter of the Gospel of John states that Jesus was at a wedding (Ancient Greek: γάμος) in Cana with his disciples.
The electoral district includes the Barossa Valley wine region where Max Schubert was born and began working at Penfolds.
During carbonic maceration, an anaerobic environment is created by pumping carbon dioxide into a sealed container filled with whole grape clusters.
In 2007 she and her father founded Silver Heights winery on land he was already cultivating in Ningxia.
In 1997 Max was posthumously honoured with the creation of the Electoral district of Schubert in the South Australian House of Assembly, a seat in the lower house of the South Australian state parliament.
After graduating from the University of Paris in 1862, between 1864 and 1867 he served as a clerical officer at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
The yeast accomplishes this by utilizing glucose through a series of metabolic pathways that, in the presence of oxygen, produces not only large amounts of energy for the cell but also many different intermediates that the cell needs to function.
Process variations Different techniques are employed to adjust the level of sugar in the grape must.
Babich was the firm's winemaker for 35 vintages, and took over as managing director in the mid-1990s.
the white Savagnin and the reds Poulsard and Trousseau that are used to create highly unusual and rare wines.
They may also bind with the tannins in the wine to reduce the perception of bitterness or astringency in the wine.
In contrast, Hougang is the Hanyu Pinyin spelling but the Hokkien pronunciation Aū-káng is most commonly used.
Scholars have argued that the "degree of order" within the text "can be exaggerated" but rubrics are used throughout to mark divisions.
Nannerl is an Austro-Bavarian Upper German language diminutive for the name Anna that is also in use as an independent given name.
The largest non-Christian faith in Wales is Islam, with about 22,000 members in 2001 served by about 40 mosques, following the first mosque established in Cardiff.
(1916–1980), American author and poet Thaddeus Stevens (1792–1868), United States Representative from Pennsylvania Robert Thaddeus R.
Prominent individuals with no direct connection to deaf culture are sometimes also assigned name signs; for example, George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, William Shakespeare, and Vincent van Gogh all have name signs.
"Long knives" was a term used by the Iroquois, and later by the Mingo and other indigenous peoples of the Ohio Country to designate white settlers from Virginia, in contradistinction to those of New York and Pennsylvania.
48 BC), loyal follower of Cleopatra See also Apollodorus of Smyrna, a copyist error for Apollonides of Smyrna Apollo (disambiguation) Apollinaris (disambiguation) Apollonia (disambiguation) Apollonius (disambiguation)
Samples were taken from two boxes of human remains located the in British Institute in Eastern Africa (BIEA) in Nairobi, originally excavated in the 1950s and 1960s by Chittick.
A legend of Saint Olaf recounts how a troll built a church for the saint at a fantastic speed and price, but the saint was able to free himself by learning the troll's name during a walk in the woods.
A 14th-century Icelandic manuscript describes a kuenna land ("Woman Land") north of India populated by hermaphroditic women.
Jude is an English variant of Judas, a name derived from Ἰούδας (Ioudas), the Ancient Greek form of יְהוּדָה.
960s), Byzantine general People with the surname Michael Theodoulou See also Abdullah, an Arabic name with the same meaning Obadiah, a Hebrew name with the same meaning Theodul Pass Theodul Glacier Theodula of Anazarbus Théodule == References ==
Insults Pejorative, politics Animal epithets may be pejorative, indeed in some cultures highly offensive.
His study of this material revealed a great number of substrate phenomena from Uralic languages and extended our knowledge of the formal and semantical development of toponyms as well as of the ancient state of the Uralic languages.
Sammy is a nickname, frequently for people named Samuel or Samantha, and also an English spelling of the Arabic name Sami.
Woody (1833–1912), American politician and judge Joey Woody (born 1973), American track and field athlete Larry Woody, American sports writer Russ Woody, American author and television producer
In some cases the traditional English exonym is based on a local Chinese variety instead of Mandarin, in the case of Xiamen, where the name Amoy is closer to the Hokkien pronunciation.
See also List of ancient Egyptian papyri Amenemope Onomastics Prosopography References Parkinson, R., et alia, Cracking Codes, the Rosetta Stone, and Decipherment, (Berkeley: University of California Press, c.
Regional usage Argentina The word gringo is mostly used in rural areas following the original Spanish meaning.
In Ethiopia and Eritrea, the terms Tukrīr (Amharic) and Tǝkwǝrir (Tigrinya) are used to designate persons of West or Central African origin.
For example, foreign football players in the Brazilian Championship that come from other South American countries are referred to as "gringos" by the sports media and by sports fans.
Uniform Commercial Code Uniform Commercial Code §1-201(37) of the United States generally defines signed as "using any symbol executed or adopted with present intention to adopt or accept a writing".
Research can be contemporary, with data collected through surveys and ethnographical inquiry of modern societies and communities, or historical, based on historical written sources.
This organization replaced the former International Committee of Onomastic Sciences, which was composed exclusively of representatives of member countries and did not welcome individual researchers as this new structure allows.
The name Mugat may derive from an Arabic term for Zoroastrians (Literally “fire cult followers” or "Heathen").
More often today, the Austuriani are recognized as the product of local social transformation, given the association of the name with the same space over two centuries.
Hydronyms include the proper names of rivers and streams, lakes and ponds, swamps and marshes, seas and oceans.
Fyodor, Fedor (Russian: Фёдор) or Feodor is the Russian-language form of the Greek-language name Theodoros (Greek: Θεόδωρος) meaning "God's gift" or "god-given".
The name (רעמסס: Raˁamses, Raˁmeses) occurs in the Hebrew Bible, not as the name of a king but rather the name of one of the two cities which was built for the Pharaoh of the oppression by the forced labor of the Israelites (Exodus, 1:11), the other such city being Pithom.
History "Kartoffel" refers to a person of German descent, particularly an ethnic German from the perspective of allochthone populations in Germany.
It came to be used as a given name among the Puritans in the 17th century and was by them taken to the American colonies.
Published in 1659: Weyman, Daniel, Antwoorde in versoeck, vande heeren Weyman ende Copez, Leiden, Jan Dyvoet, 1659; 16 cm.
2007–2009), Deputy Minister of Interior for Counter-Narcotics and former Governor of Badakhshan, Afghanistan Baz Bamigboye, British journalist Baz Muhammad Khan (fl.
The same convention applies to missiles, with air-launched ground attack missiles beginning with the letter "K" and surface-to-surface missiles (ranging from intercontinental ballistic missiles to antitank rockets) with the letter "S", air-to-air missiles "A", and surface-to-air missiles "G".
Literary critic Egil Törnqvist mentions possible risks in choosing certain names for literary characters.
There have been concerns that signature reviews improperly reject ballots from young and minority voters at higher rates than others, with no or limited ability of voters to appeal the rejection.
His body was discovered by a chamberlain of the Caffè dei Segretari who usually brought Tassini breakfast each morning - on 22 December 1899 he had not already opened his door and the chamberlain called a blacksmith to force it open.
In linguistics, a hypostasis (from the Greek word ὑπόστασις meaning foundation, base or that which stands behind) is a relationship between a name and a known quantity, as a cultural personification (i.e.
Government and politics Mo Brooks (born 1954), American politician from Alabama Mo Mowlam (1949–2005), British politician Mo Udall (1922–1998), U.S.
Subsequent art history, beginning with Pliny's chapters that gave common names to works such as by Praxiteles.
Even among Welsh speakers, very few people speak only Welsh, with nearly all being bilingual in English.
Jerome's script) and in general for the Illyrian language (and foundation of the San Girolamo dei Croati and related Pontifical Croatian College of St.
Green (1761–1841), American politician Isaiah Harris (1929–2001), baseball pitcher in the Negro leagues Isaiah Hart (1792–1861), American plantation owner and founder of Jacksonville, Florida Isaiah Hartenstein (born 1998), German-American basketball player Isaiah T.
429–4th century BC), follower of Socrates and narrator of the dialogue described by Plato in his Symposium Apollodorus of Seleucia (fl.
The expulsion phase is considered an extension of the emission phase, triggered by reaching a certain level of spinal nerve activation.
See also List of androgen esters § Nandrolone esters References External links Laurabolin (nandrolone laurate) - William Llewellyn's Anabolic.org Archived 2016-07-26 at the Wayback Machine
Whereas norethisterone has a ketone at C3 and lynestrenol has no substituent at C3, etynodiol has a hydroxyl group at the position.
Each crus begins proximally as a blunt-pointed process in anterior to the tuberosity of the ischium, along the perineal surface of the conjoined (ischiopubic) ramus.
Unlike all other genitally situated cancers, the incidence of penis cancer is related to the sexual mode of transmission.
This indispensable structure is a continuation of the body of the human penis, differing from other mammalian penises in that it has no baculum (or erectile bone) and instead relies exclusively on engorgement with blood to reach its erect state.
Illness and death In 2002, he moved with his family to Villa Carlos Paz (35 km away from Córdoba (city).
"Tissue selectivity and potential clinical applications of trenbolone (17beta-hydroxyestra-4,9,11-trien-3-one): A potent anabolic steroid with reduced androgenic and estrogenic activity".
Dihydrotestosterone butyrate, also known as androstanolone butyrate or stanolone butyrate, as well as 5α-dihydrotestosterone 17β-butanoate, is a synthetic androgen and anabolic steroid and a dihydrotestosterone ester that was never marketed.
Nandrolone furylpropionate (NFP) (JANTooltip Japanese Accepted Name) (brand name Demelon), also known as 19-nortestosterone 17β-(2-furanyl)propanoate, is a synthetic androgen and anabolic steroid and a nandrolone ester.
They are named for Mathias-Marie Duval and Walter Schiller who described them in the late nineteenth century.
Diminished sperm production is a common side-effect of testosterone replacement therapy because of the decreased intra-testicular concentration of testosterone and suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis.
However, at least one case of pseudohermaphroditism (virilized genitalia) has been observed that may have been due to noretynodrel.
Formestane, formerly sold under the brand name Lentaron among others, is a steroidal, selective aromatase inhibitor which is used in the treatment of estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer in postmenopausal women.
Conversely, replacement of the C17α alkyl group with an ethynyl group greatly reduces but does not abolish androgenic activity, as in ethisterone (17α-ethynyltestosterone) and norethisterone (17α-ethynyl-19-nortestosterone).
They act by decreasing acetylcholine effects on the smooth muscle of the bladder, thus helping control symptoms of an overactive bladder.
Activation of the androgen receptor stimulates protein synthesis, which increases muscle growth, lean body mass, and bone mineral density.
This detail became less relevant after bolandione and 4-androstenedione were banned by major sporting bodies.
A catalogue of his published obituaries in the archives of The Guardian provides a historical perspective to contemporary news as the deaths of the noteworthy are documented and he reviews their lives.
It is the 3β-sulfate ester and a metabolite of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and circulates in far greater relative concentrations than DHEA.
He scoured Hansard, gossip columns, vote papers and committee reports to compile his profiles of the personnel of the British Parliament and assessed their character traits, history, opinions and psychological drives.
He was the primary artist on Archie, the company's flagship title, from the late 1950s through the mid-1970s.
temperament) tend to yield inconsistent results, while those testing perception and cognition are typically more consistent.
When the sperm is exposed to chemo-attractant, especially progesterone; the sperm will exhibit sudden flagellar arrest, followed by sharp turn and hyperactivation.
From the word mikreh (מקרה), the rabbis derived the term keri (קרי) to refer to an emission of semen.
Identified the first cell surface antigens distinguishing cells of different lineages, introducing the concept of cell surface antigens that could differentiate different cell types.
Spermiogenesis is the final stage of spermatogenesis, during which the spermatids develop into mature spermatozoa.
The language of "andropause" and its supposed parallels with menopause have not been accepted by the medical community.
Julian Hart Lewis FRS (12 August 1946 – 30 April 2014) was an English developmental biologist and researcher whose work shed light on the nature of cellular timing mechanisms and their role in animal development.
The testicles remain in the body cavity in all other vertebrates, including both the cloacal animals.
Society and culture Generic names Mibolerone is the generic name of the drug and its INNTooltip International Nonproprietary Name, USANTooltip United States Adopted Name, and BANTooltip British Approved Name.
History Lynestrenol was developed by the Dutch pharmaceutical company Organon in the late 1950s and was introduced for medical use in 1961.
For reference, circulating concentrations of danazol are in the range of 2 μM at a dosage of 600 mg/day in women.
Ethiopian version The Ethiopian authorities asserted that the two Italians had been killed not by Ethiopian troops but by local people, angered by the bombing of their villages.
However, two 19-nortestosterone derivatives of vinyltestosterone, norvinisterone (17α-vinyl-19-nortestosterone) and norgesterone (17α-vinyl-δ5(10)-19-nortestosterone), have been marketed.
After Malcolm Glazer had completed his takeover of Manchester United he de-listed it from the stock exchange and made it a private company once again.
Chemistry Norgestrel, also known as rac-13-ethyl-17α-ethynyl-19-nortestosterone or as rac-13-ethyl-17α-ethynylestr-4-en-17β-ol-3-one, is a synthetic estrane steroid and a derivative of testosterone.
Testolactone has also been used to postpone precocious puberty because of its ability to block estrogen production.
Decapacitation factors are glycoproteins or glycolipids that stabilize the membrane and prevent premature capacitation.
In 2008, he was diagnosed with prostate cancer which obligated him to undergo chemotherapy sessions every three weeks in the city of Córdoba.
Upon learning of his membership in the Communist Party USA, the Navy promoted him to liaison with the United States Department of State due to a shortage of Japanese linguists.
The polymer has magnetoelastic behavior that allows it to stretch and elongate to better line the vas deferens.
References External links Official website at the Wayback Machine (archived 2025-10-31) Independent replica
This opening is for a while the primitive urogenital opening, and it extends forward to the corona glandis.
Androstenedione, a 19-carbon steroid hormone produced in the adrenal glands and the gonads, is where estrone synthesis originates and is the source of estrogen in postmenopausal women.
The 4 pins on the back of the case were multiplexed and could be either used with Spy-Bi-Wire (serialized version of JTAG) or serial out/ground.
Photo format By default, iPhones save photos in the HEIF (High Efficiency Image File) format, which is a space-saving format with a .heic file extension.
In September 2015, Apple launched a new subset of the Apple Watch, with a stainless steel body and leather band, in collaboration with Hermès.
As with the previous model, the device itself does not contain a charging port and must be placed inside a special Micro USB-equipped charging case.
According to Jacobs, the Model Two would have focused on variation, rather than being an enhancement to or exploiting planned obsolescence of the Model One.
The company has so far not responded to customer criticism and it seems that the Martian office phones are cut off, with support tickets also going unanswered.
The first-generation Apple Watch SE was discontinued following the release of the second-generation Apple Watch SE in 2022.
The included applications facilitate monitoring fitness activities: Heart Rate sensor Pedometer Exercise Standalone Modes: Running, Walking Companion Modes: Cycling, Hiking Sleep Samsung stated that their Gear Fit is the "world's first" wearable device with a curved Super AMOLED touch display.
Vivo BlueOS, or BlueOS also named Blue River OS, is an open-source distributed operating system developed by Vivo.
Professional printing Like its predecessors, Photos initially included a number of options for professional printing of photos, which could then optionally be turned into books or calendars and mailed to an address.
Due to limitations of the COVID-19 pandemic on certain social gatherings, the smartwatch was released via Samsung's online channels.
The Pine has a Snapdragon S4 system on a chip (SoC) by Qualcomm that has a Cortex-A5 Dual-Core ARM processor running at 1.2 GHz.
It was the major smartwatch carrying the Nokia brand, until the company sold back the health division to the co-founder of Withings in September 2018.
Other environmental groups criticized Apple's emphasis on carbon emissions without accounting for e-waste, due to the difficulty of repairing these products.
iCloud Photo Library iCloud Photo Library is heavily integrated into the app, keeping photos and videos in sync with various Apple devices designated by the user (such as Macs, iPhones, and iPads), including edits and album structures.
Business The company offers firmware, a cloud, manufacturing, service and over-the-air facilities for upgrades.
Martian Watches was a brand of smart watch founded in 2007 in the United States by SilverPlus, Inc., an American company headquartered in Irvine, California.
CNET praises the device for its smooth interface and how it displays notifications and messages in an easily viewable format.
SPOT was not Microsoft's first foray into the smartwatch business—the company previously co-developed the Timex Datalink with Timex in 1994.
However, some investigative reporting has indicated that 94% of Verra's rainforest carbon offsets were allegedly "worthless" and that the standard may worsen global warming.
It pairs with a smartphone with the Nokia Health Mate application and also relays smartphone notifications.
This decision was praised by Monique Goyens, director-general of EU consumer group BEUC, who also called Apple's claims "bogus" and scientifically inaccurate.
As a result, Pebble was forced to cancel shipments for its Pebble 2 and Pebble Time 2 smartwatches, as well as the Pebble Core device, refunding Kickstarter backers.
According to Masimo, Lamego initially declined to join Apple during a meeting between Masimo and Apple executives in 2013, but reconsidered after Masimo chief executive, Joe Kiani, appointed another employee as the company's chief technology officer.
Overview SPOT extended functionality of traditional devices to include features not originally envisaged for them; a SPOT-powered coffeemaker, for example, would be able to display information such as weather forecasts on an electronic visual display.
Customers who had been using the Aperture application, abandoned by Apple on the release of Photos, were particularly angry about loss of professional-standard functionality.
Production was ramped up in March 2015 to increase availability, several months after the release of Android Wear but ahead of the Apple Watch.
All the ceramic case color options have been removed until the launch of the Apple Watch Edition Series 5 in 2019.
SPOT relied on the .NET Micro Framework for the creation and management of embedded device firmware.
The LG G Watch R (model W110) is an Android Wear-based smartwatch announced and released by LG and Google on October 25, 2014.
He concluded that there is no "killer application" so far besides telling the time, which is the basic function of a wristwatch anyhow.
While the Ruputer was available with either 512 KB of storage (original Ruputer), 2 MB (Ruputer PRO), or 4 MB of flash memory (Ruputer PRO4), the onHand PC came only in a single version with 2 MB of storage.
The device started shipping in August 2014, and eventually became widely available through Best Buy and Amazon.
In March 2013, Apple hired former Adobe chief technology officer Kevin Lynch, reporting to Bob Mansfield, to lead the watch project, which would become the company's first major new product without input from late co-founder Steve Jobs.
The Samsung Galaxy Watch 6 (stylized as Samsung Galaxy Watch6) is a series of Wear OS-based smartwatches manufactured, developed and designed by Samsung Electronics.
Gear Live was initially available in the United States and Canada at US$199 on the Google Play Store, and from Google's Play Store in the UK for £169.
In May 2025, COROS introduced the COROS Launch Repair Program, allowing customers to replace parts for selected COROS wearables, such as the battery, dial, screen and buttons.
Analysts estimate Apple sold 18 million watches in 2017, 31 million in 2019, and 34 million in 2020.
Messages could be displayed during an alarm, and they could be downloaded to the watch or input manually through scrolling characters, activated by two forward/reverse buttons.
Software The G Watch runs Android Wear, which features a notification system based on Google Now technology that enables it to receive spoken commands from the user.
Sales Financial analysts offered early sales estimates from a few million to as many as 5 million in the first year.
Development Pre-release The concept of Pokémon Go was conceived in 2014 through a collaboration between Satoru Iwata of Nintendo and Tsunekazu Ishihara of The Pokémon Company, initially as an April Fools' Day project with Google called the Google Maps: Pokémon Challenge.
Tan alleges that this was a deliberate effort to defraud Kreyos and use its resources to create a turnkey smartwatch solution for other companies.
Sailfish OS Sailfish OS is a Linux-based operating system for various platforms, including Sailfish smartwatches.
Models The first-generation Apple Watch Ultra was unveiled September 7, 2022 alongside Apple Watch Series 8, and began shipping September 23, 2022.
In the Carbon Profiling Model these emissions are measured as Embodied Carbon Efficiency (ECE), measured as kg of CO2/m2/year.
In this scenario, potential fuel suppliers wait for shipowners to begin using low-carbon fuels before they invest in infrastructure to supply it, and shipowners wait for the infrastructure to be put in place before investing in ships that can use it.
Failure to commission, keep or provide an updated TM44 inspection report when required by an enforcement authority could lead to a fine of £300 per unit.
They are designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by essentially increasing the price of fossil fuels.
The name "TM44" refers to the technical memorandum TM44, which provides guidelines for these inspections.
The chairman of the committee, Peter Dunne, described report as a 'middle road' through 'complex and contentious' material.
The European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) remains the largest carbon market based on value, accounting for approximately 87% of the global market size in 2023.
Some of the initiatives to date include: Joining US volunteers at the Annual Conference/Lobbying in Washington, D.C., to meeting with Members of Congress.
The report suggested four strategies to be concurrently implemented: Accelerate clean electricity access.
Carbon Bank and Village Development Project In 2009 the Carbon Bank and Village Development Project sponsored by PATT was awarded a 2009 United Nations-backed SEED Award.
2016 acatech study A 2016 acatech-lead study focused on "flexibility technologies" used to balance the fluctuations inherent in power generation from wind and photovoltaics.
Prior to the scuttling of the agreement by the second Donald Trump administration, the agreement was supported by the leading shipping industry lobby, most states, including the European Union, Japan, China, Britain and the United States.
Research based on sample sets between 2004 and 2011 shows that Solar RECs purchased and retired voluntarily in the United States (i.e., not for compliance with a Renewable Portfolio Standard) do not lead to any significant additional renewable energy investment or generation.
Architecture for REDD+ Transactions (ART) is a carbon-crediting programme for jurisdictional and national REDD+ activities.
While these vehicles remained legal to drive in both regions, consumer groups and governments sought to ensure that Volkswagen had compensated affected owners, as it had been required to do in the United States.
Readiness activities may be supported through a delivery-partner model, in which partner institutions assist countries in implementing readiness work under the facility’s operational and reporting arrangements.
The ECO scheme works by placing an obligation on large and medium energy suppliers in England, Scotland and Wales to achieve a minimum level of energy bill savings in homes through energy efficiency installations.
Official registration indicates that a program has approved the project and that the project is eligible to start generating carbon offset credits once it starts.
Cap and Share advocates argue that it is impossible to guarantee that emissions reduction targets will be reached by using a purely price-based mechanism for emissions reduction.
At the same time, carbon credits have been seen as enabling large companies to pollute the environment at the expense of local communities.
Steven Chu has said that "It is absolutely worthwhile to invest in carbon capture and storage", noting that even if the U.S.
They can purchase emission permits, be allocated quotas (such as European Union Allowances (EUA)) or buy carbon credits.
Africa has large reserves of many of these so-called "green minerals, such as bauxite, cobalt, copper, chromium, manganese and graphite.
The stay was deemed dissolved as of April 11, 2022, and the RGGI rulemaking was finally published in the Pennsylvania Bulletin on April 23, 2022.
Description Carbon markets are carbon pricing mechanisms enabling governments and non-state actors to trade greenhouse gas emission credits.
History On September 25, 2008, Tianjin Climate Exchange, co-established by CNPC Assets Management Co., Ltd.
These have frames with relaxed geometry, protecting the rider from shocks of the road and easing steering at low speeds.
In the European Union, 59% of companies that have made investments in both basic and advanced technologies have also invested in energy efficiency measures, compared to only 50% of US firms in the same category.
Cost implications for new coal-fired power plants Newly built coal-fired power plants can be made to immediately use gasification of the coal prior to combustion.
Benefits for the community Setting aside such areas fits with the long-term vision of the communities were hiza'iti lands are set aside for use by the future generations.
Efforts have been made under the G20 to remove fossil fuel subsidies, but they were not successful once again at the recent G20 meeting in Seoul.
By the end of 2011, 26% of South Australia's electricity generation derived from wind power, edging out coal-fired power for the first time.
Shane Ardern, a National Party MP, drove a tractor up the steps of Parliament as part of a protest against the tax.
In January 2016, The Climate Mobilization sponsored a "Climate Emergency Caucus" in Des Moines before the Iowa caucuses, which simulated the state's 2016 Democratic presidential primary caucus.
See also New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme Climate change in New Zealand Energy in New Zealand List of climate change initiatives == References ==
Long-term CER or lCER is a CER issued for an afforestation or reforestation project activity which expires at the end of its crediting period.
The periphery, which encapsulates the residential core, is composed of services and facilities such as supermarkets and gyms.
Further stress of the knee can be relieved by changing seat heights and pedal position to improve the rehabilitation.
These curves have been used for various public and private actors either to assess carbon policies or through the use of a carbon market analysis tool.
Indirectly, through efficient, sustainable use of resources and faster transport of goods and people, car-free cities aim to improve quality of life for residents.
“Embodied carbon refers to the carbon footprint associated with building materials, from cradle to grave," and can be quantified as a part of environmental impact using life-cycle assessment (LCA).
Fifty organisations including Attac Europe, Friends of the Earth International, Global Justice Now, Greenpeace, and the Indigenous Environmental Network, among others, signed a petition against ICAO measures.
In 2012, South Pole acquired a major stake in Australian carbon farming project developer and offset retailer, Sydney-based Climate Friendly.
On 22 April 2021, along with an open letter to Grant Shapps with fifteen signatures, the Railway Industry Association published their report "Why Rail Electrification".
Jeff Huang is assistant chairman of Tianjin Climate Exchange and vice-president of Chicago Climate Exchange.
(but) sometimes if you feel that something is totally unacceptable you have to react despite business, despite interests.
I have been victimized by these lies." On June 4, 2009, Obama delivered a speech at Cairo University titled "A New Beginning".
In addressing real-life situations, Francis often appealed directly to his experience, in continuity with his synodal way, which shows a renewed emphasis on listening and dialogue.
Tosaphists The Tosaphist Rabbeinu Tam wrote that Peter was "a devout and learned Jew who dedicated his life to guiding gentiles along the proper path".
While in Washington, DC, he attended Vermont Avenue Christian Church, which is now National City Christian Church.
There are certain areas of feeling and reality—or unreality or innermost yearning, whatever you want to call it—which are notably inaccessible to words.
Strangelove suggested "the earth were being cleansed of an infection", to which Kubrick responded: Good God, no.
A number of critics draw the parallel between religious beliefs and Freud's theories, that neither can be scientifically proven, but only experienced subjectively.
The emperor became a great patron of the Church and set a precedent for the position of the Christian emperor within the Church and raised the notions of orthodoxy, Christendom, ecumenical councils, and the state church of the Roman Empire declared by edict in 380.
By term Affiliation totals See also Religious affiliations of presidents of the United States Religious affiliation in the United States House of Representatives Religious affiliation in the United States Senate Footnotes References Adherents.com Religious Affiliation of U.S.
In 1985, minister Donald Wildmon called her "anti-Christian" and "antifamily" for wearing crucifixes as jewelry.
On Easter Day 2026 (April 5), Trump sparked significant controversy by using the phrase "Praise be to Allah" in his expletive-laden post threatening Iran, which was interpreted by critics as mocking Islam or weaponizing religious language during conflicts.
Dawkins's contribution was as follows: Stop toadying to Muslims and other "faith communities" as part of a general abolition of all religious privilege.
Hence, he argued that the reformers "had to leave them in order that we might come to Christ." The ministers of the Church are described from a passage from Ephesians, and they consisted of apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, and doctors.
Reflecting on the deep meaning of the Communion bread, he draws on Paul's epistles that point to oneness as Christ's body, where all suffer together and are honored together (1 Cor 12:26).
Others, sometimes termed Judaizers, felt that Gentile Christians needed to fully comply with the Mosaic Law.
According to Sherrill, in the interview he denied being an agnostic and stated that he believed there is only one Creator.
Following his return to Twitter in April 2018, West tweeted "I love the way Candace Owens thinks." The tweet was met with controversy among some of West's fans.
At that conference, Gera spoke on "The Meaning of the Christian Message in the Midst of Poverty and Oppression".
I find it very exciting to have a semi-logical belief that there's a great deal to the universe we don't understand, and that there is an intelligence of an incredible magnitude outside the Earth.
There have been no Adventist, Anabaptist, Eastern Orthodox, Assyrian Church of the East, Oriental Orthodox, Lutheran, Latter Day Saint, or Pentecostal presidents.
Hitler promised that the institutions of the Weimar Republic and churches would be protected, and said his government saw the churches as "the most important factors for upholding our nationhood".
Burke's view that religion is the source of morality led him to view its absence as a perilous possibility.
Farrakhan continued advocating the "racial separatism" of Elijah Muhammad, and reportedly considered Wallace "a soft minded heretic." Ali decided to follow the teachings of Wallace Muhammad.
However, these views are not standard Calvinistic interpretations, but his views on what happens after the resurrection are orthodox Calvinistic doctrine: Christ, during the resurrection, would raise man up higher than the state he was in before the fall.
The only way to deal with false prophets was to deal with the Turkish people's illiteracy and prejudice.
Christian religion and ethics are the primary topic of the sermons with emphasis on marriage, repentance, hardening the heart, charity, pride, wisdom, and compassion.
Gera had also been a teacher of Bergoglio who, as Archbishop of Buenos Aires, showed his esteem for Gera by allowing him to be buried in the crypt of the cathedral.
All that's left is to prove that in nature there is no frontier between the organic and the inorganic." Atheism The National Socialist movement was not formally atheist, and generally allowed religious observance.
"Left" refers to the Historical Left (referred to also as Democrats) of Agostino Depretis and Francesco Crispi.
Notes References Bate, Walter Jackson (1977), Samuel Johnson, New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, ISBN 0-15-179260-7.
In Christian theology, this concept is often referred to as The Second Coming of Jesus Christ and the establishment of Paradise by The Kingdom of God on Earth.
In particular, it was debated as to whether Gentile converts needed to be circumcised or observe the Judean dietary laws.
The utterance caused outrage, shock, and disdain from Jewish leaders and citizens in the United States.
The honeymoon, an Anatolian tour, was a chance to show his wife's unveiled face as a role model for modern Turkish women.
He sharply condemned the confiscation of Church property by the revolutionaries and claimed that their nonreligious views were "against, not only our reason, but our instincts".
Rather, the Finnish School asserts that Luther's doctrine of salvation was similar to that of Eastern Orthodoxy, theosis (divinization).
Nevertheless, his critics often wished that he would embrace what has been called a progressive agenda that some hoped would evolve as a result of the council.
Encouraged by Rome, Catholic lay people began to participate again in pilgrimages, spiritual retreats, baptisms and confessions and Catholic associations of all kinds.
Martin Luther, where both he and his followers wanted to liken him and his role to that of the European reformer.
Religious Freedom and Tolerance Jefferson envisioned an America that would be tolerant of people of various religious backgrounds, and that civil rights should not be limited by one's religious beliefs.
His formal conversion in 312 is almost universally acknowledged among historians, despite that it was claimed he was baptized only on his deathbed by the Arian bishop Eusebius of Nicomedia in 337; the real reasons behind it remain unknown and are debated also.
Though the phenomenon goes beyond Madonna, she received solid reviews discussing her religious forays with an ambiguous impact in popular culture across decades.
In this way we may rest assured that we shall never arrive at conclusions opposed to any truth, either physical or moral, from whatever source that truth may be derived." For these men, science could not be out of harmony with religion, and in a sense it was religion.
The various editions of that work span nearly his entire career as a reformer, and the successive revisions of the book show that his theology changed very little from his youth to his death.
Several popular diet patterns prohibit the inclusion of some categories of animal products and may also limit the conditions of when other animal products may be permitted.
Ultimately, the California hide trade set an important precedent which would impact the way the people looked at the West for decades to come.
Salo or slanina is a European food consisting of salt-cured slabs of pork subcutaneous fat with or without skin and with or without layers of meat.
Aspartic acid, which can make up up to 50% of shell framework proteins, is most abundant in calcitic layers, and also heavily present in aragonitic layers.
Ingredients A sausage consists of meat cut into pieces or ground, mixed with other ingredients, and filled into a casing.
This list of egg topics is not intended to be complete, but it spans the vast majority of related articles.
The membrane can also show the pattern of the animal's vein network called the veining of the sheet.
It was originally applied to synthetic fibers to reduce transparency, slipperiness and increase warmth, absorbency and makes the yarn more opaque.
It may have even evolved there, as Maine at that time would have been covered in glaciers, although the oldest known specimen only dates back to around 5,000 years; this could be due to the rising sea levels—older sea mink remains may be submerged underwater.
In 1999, Worthington Foods was acquired by Kellogg's and then, in 2015, by the Atlantic Natural Foods Company, without the Morning Star brand.
When suet is made from scratch, the maker can pack it into the crevices of pine cones to make a natural feeder.
They can drink as much as 30 imperial gallons (140 litres) at a time but this is stored in the animal's bloodstream, not, as popularly believed, in its humps.
Among some tribes, adults wore a loincloth-like pubic covering, which also hung from the waist belt.
The portions are cubed and then seasoned, cured, rested, ground and finally placed into the desired vessel.
It is very expensive; a high quality knitted scarf can cost more than $300 U.S., but will last over 20 years with good care.
See also Cephalopod ink References External links Media related to Sepia (color) at Wikimedia Commons
"A review of quantitative microbial risk assessment in the management of Escherichia coli O157:H7 on beef." Meat Science 74.1 (2006): 76–88.
The sea cow's blubber was 8–10 cm (3–4 in) thick, another adaptation to the frigid climate of the Bering Sea.
Matheny became interested in cultured meat after researching infectious diseases (HIV prevention) in India for a master's degree in public health.
Camels have a series of physiological adaptations that allow them to withstand long periods of time without any external source of water.
Criticism There have been multiple occurrences of the producer code being forged: a common strategy is to have multiple barns on the same farm, with some having caged hen production and others with organic production.
He found success with the Kenya Wildlife Service, which in 1997 commissioned his paper for special events.
The East Slavic, Hungarian and Romanian variety may also be cured with paprika or other seasonings added, whereas the South and West Slavic version is often smoked.
In 2021 a consumer lawsuit brought by PETA and a few individual plaintiffs alleged that Vital Farms misled customers to believe its hens were treated more ethically than in reality.
The World Cancer Research Fund International guidelines on cancer prevention recommend avoiding all processed meats.
American trade initially began with sailors from New England, who found an interest in the California otter and seal skins industry which diminished in prominence rapidly after the beginning of the nineteenth century.
The Oomingmak Musk Ox Producer's Cooperative was formed in the late 1960s by indigenous women on Nunivak Island, with the help of Dr.
In Britain, starting in the Tudor period, dog-powered turnspits were used; the dog ran in a treadmill linked to the spit by belts and pulleys.
Ant egg soup is a traditional dish of Laos, but popularity of the dish is waning in the younger generations.
This finding suggests that DNA methylation in honey bees allows the expression of epigenetic information to be differentially altered by nutritional input.
Its primary structure in humans is: NH2-His-Ser-Gln-Gly-Thr-Phe-Thr-Ser-Asp-Tyr-Ser-Lys-Tyr-Leu-Asp-Ser-Arg-Arg-Ala-Gln-Asp-Phe-Val-Gln-Trp-Leu-Met-Asn-Thr-COOH (HSQGTFTSDYSKYLDSRRAQDFVQWLMNT).
A hunter who manages to extract the horn will place it in a silver casket of vermilion powder, which is thought to give the object sustenance.
However, the First Book of Kings states that it was absent earlier than Jeremiah, during Solomon's reign in the tenth century B.C.
However, proteolytic bacteria are able to dissolve or break down the connective tissue and fibers of the meat and enter the inside.
O'Hayer built the company with 20 hens in a 27-acre farm based on the philosophy of conscious capitalism.
The interior of a cut of meat will still increase in temperature by 3–5 °C (5–9 °F) after it is removed from an oven or other heat source as the hot exterior continues to warm the comparatively cooler interior (indeed it can increase by more, depending on factors such as a high ambient temperature).
This phase can either subside or progress into a "late-phase reaction," which can substantially prolong the symptoms of a response and result in more tissue damage.
It was a loosely woven, soft, double faced twill weave construction that was primarily used for coats and overcoats.
But it must always have been much easier to obtain in regions without populations of elephants, walrus or other sources of ivory.
For example, the FAO (2002) figure for Denmark, which has one of the highest meat export rates compared to its population, was 145.9 kg (322 lb) (highest in the world).
Other components identified in eggshell membranes are hyaluronic acid, sialic acid, desmosine, isodesmosine, ovotransferrin, lysyl oxidase, lysozyme, and β-N-acetylglucosaminidase.
The final investigation notice from 2023 advises that "people who are pregnant, aged 65 or older, or have a weakened immune system" reheat deli products to the aforementioned temperature in order to "kill any germs", even when there is no ongoing outbreak.
The trays of meat raffled vary in content: a barbecue style mix of steaks, lamb chops, sausages, etc.
McLagan's explanation for the belief that fat is unhealthy comes from Ancel Keys's studies in the 1940s, which linked animal fat to heart disease—studies which have since been challenged by other studies which do not link the two.
This meat has a dark hide and the hairs of the skin remains stuck to the fat even if it is dipped in boiling water.
A vibrating belt machine is a device that was promoted to passively reduce body fat through the use of an oscillating or vibrating belt around the exercise subject's waist, without active exercise by the user.
An equipment manager is responsible for the procurement, maintenance, repair, inventory, transportation, storage, cleaning, and disposal of equipment used by a business or organization.
Improvised use of tent pegs The Book of Judges provides the story of Jael, the wife of Heber, a Kenite tentmaker in which Jael kills Sisera by driving a tent peg through his temple as he sleeps.
Twelve new footballs, sealed in a special box and shipped by the manufacturer, are opened in the officials' locker room two hours and 15 minutes before the game.
Discovered around 1900 as a byproduct of the nitrocellulose manufacturing process, Sterno is made from ethanol denatured by adding methanol, water, and an amphoteric oxide gelling agent, plus, in recent decades, a safety dye that gives it a characteristic pink color.
Less known are plus twos, plus sixes, and plus eights, of similar definitions, but accordingly varying lengths.
Hangboard After the development of the campus board, the hangboard (also called the fingerboard) was developed to focus on building static arm strength, and finger tendon strength.
Singh's jodhpur style of flared thigh and hip was rapidly taken up by the British polo-playing community, who adapted it to the existing designs of English riding breeches, which ended snugly at mid-calf, and were worn with tall riding boots.
In the world of theatre tights are also common, especially in Renaissance-era costumes, and dance, particularly in ballet.
Tsubota's hands, which could quickly grasp a player's characteristics and fix them in minutes, were called "magic hands".
In 1997, the company ran into financial difficulties during the 1997 Asian financial crisis and in 1998, Kook-Je and its parent company, Hanil Group, went bankrupt.
However, after a meeting between Vietnamese martial arts masters in 1964, indigo/deep blue was chosen to be the official color of Vietnamese martial arts uniforms.
Products Self-inflating mattress A Therm-a-Rest self-inflating mattress consists of an airtight nylon fabric envelope filled with a sheet of low density, open-cell polyurethane foam.
See also Barbell Dumbbell Kettlebell Exercise equipment Weight training Strength training Resistance training Plyometric training References External links International Bulgarian Bag Confederation
He was truly a master craftsman." Although his title was glove craftsman, he himself insisted that he was not a craftsman; he was an engineer who faithfully responded to the players' requests rather than imposing himself on him.
Veterinarian kits Symbols and identification The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) sets a standard for first aid kits of being green, with a white cross, in order to make them easily recognizable to anyone requiring first aid.
Rollers and trainers are often used by racing cyclists to warm up before racing, or to train indoors on their own machines.
When not in possession of the ball numerical superiority is used to isolate and channel an opponent in possession and 'mark out' any passing options so that an interception or a tackle may be made to gain possession.
It effectively protects against cuts, scrapes, and swelling, but it does not protect very well against concussions.
This happened in August 1999, in a baseball game between the Cleveland Guardians and the Los Angeles Angels, where the distraction caused by a beach ball on the field resulted in the Angels' defeat.
1970s 1970 The 1970 World Series is the first with games on AstroTurf (previously installed at Cincinnati's Riverfront Stadium), as the Reds play the Baltimore Orioles.
In March 2009, Carbrini Sportswear manufactured a one-off set of unique pink kits for Oldham Athletic for their home game against Leeds United.
The most common bobbins are the Petzl Stop and Petzl Simple, but other companies such as Kong and Climbing Technologies also have designs.
Examples are passive (bolts, copperheads, hexcentrics, ice screws, nuts, quickdraws, and skyhooks), and active (cams, friends, tricams).
High profile referee Nigel Owens has however suggested making the wearing of headgear compulsory for all players, and they are mandatory for all players in Japanese youth teams.
Rapala owns 100% of 13 Fishing (a group of brands primarily focused on anglers and fishing), and has exclusive rights to the Okuma fishing brand in Europe and Russia.
Plus fours or plus-fours are breeches or trousers that extend four inches (10 cm) below the knee (and thus four inches longer than traditional knickerbockers, hence the name).
Restricted catches involve positioning the hand around some part of the body, such as under the leg or behind the back.
Gloves are available in a variety of different cuts, including "flat palm", "roll finger" and "negative", with variations in the stitching and fit.
By the mid-2000s, however, the sport experienced a resurgence of growth in Europe, South America, and Japan.
Camalot is a brand of spring-loaded camming devices manufactured by Black Diamond Equipment used to secure ropes while rock climbing.
Hamster balls are recommended by the manufacturers for use with hamsters, gerbils, mice, degus and small rats only; they should not be used for chinchillas or guinea pigs, as their size and body structures are different from small rodents, posing a serious hazard to them if placed inside.
Through a role delineation process, the following areas of job performance were identified and established for athletic equipment managers to be proficient in: management, administration, and professional development; procurement; accountability; maintenance; fitting and safety.
Belay glasses are eyeglasses with prismatic lenses that are used by belayers in rock climbing to avoid the neck strain associated with belaying.
In the Philippines, the various indigenous swords and knives (known under the general term bolo) are commonly incorrectly described as a type of machete (as "bolo machete").
Sports equipment See: Sports equipment#Various sports Association football (soccer) See: Kit (association football)#Equipment In association football, the kit manager or kit man oversees the players' equipment.
A ball gauge is an instrument used by the umpires in cricket to check whether the size of a cricket ball meets the standard measurements mandated by the Laws of Cricket.
Jiu-jitsu regulations allow for tighter cuffs on the pants and jacket, and the skirt (section of the gi beneath the belt) is shorter.
multi-pitch climbing) when the climber cannot comfortably arrange their protection equipment on the gear loops of their harnesses.
External links Video Clip on Using a Figure 8 Belay Device Rei.com How to Choose a Belay Device Mountainproject.com
Widely used in the past by mountain climbers and soldiers, it offers improved gripping on various surfaces.
The water ball is similar to the zorb but it has only one layer and is designed for water travel rather than down-hill rolling.
The 2seconds tent won the Industrial Design Excellence Awards (IDEA) for the innovation of instant tent.
Both Bullworker models have interchangeable springs to easily change resistance levels, ranging from approximately 0–60 kg (0–130 lbs) of resistance.
Most modern devices, including the Petzl Stop, are descended from the Simple, though the idea for a descender similar in function to the Stop goes back to at least 1871.
The shorts were then sold to United Artists, who in turn sold to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, who in turn sold these shorts to Ted Turner under Turner Entertainment, and ran these shorts on Turner Classic Movies.
Erik Gustaf Geijer in his History of the Swedes (1832–36) notes that the legend was now limited to the population of Haslidale but had once also been generally believed by the people of Schwyz.
Where Troy Once Stood: The Mystery of Homer"s Iliad and Odyssey Revealed is a 1990 book by Iman Jacob Wilkens that argues that the city of Troy was located in England and that the Trojan War was fought between groups of Celts.
The text was then revised by Ashley Montagu and the revised statement was published in 1951, as well as a book detailing the criticisms in 1952.
The book further suggests that the origins of many religions, including interpretations of the Old Testament of the Bible, are reactions to contact with an alien race.
About a century later, Ptolemy also listed the coastal Oeasso (Οἰασσώ) beside the Pyrénées to the Vascones, together with 15 inland towns, including Pompelon.
In Georgian, the first corresponds to "Ghilghvi" (singular) and "Ghilghvelebi" (plural), which are often found in old Tushin folk poems.
In Greek mythology, Diaprepes (Ancient Greek: Διαπρέπης means "distinguished") was the youngest of the five pairs of twins borne of Poseidon and Cleito in Plato's myth of Atlantis.
It was a gorget stone found in 1917 near Taunton, Massachusetts about five miles upstream from Dighton Rock, known for its mysterious petroglyphs.
The Dorian invasion became connected with the romanticisation of ancient Sparta, and was used to assert a special connection between Prussia and ancient Greece.
The beech argument (German: Buchenargument) is a now mostly outdated argument in Indo-European studies that is in favour of placing the Indo-European Urheimat in an area west of a line connecting Kaliningrad and the Black Sea, based on the current distribution of European beech trees.
These narratives tend to portray a period of submission to the new rulers before which the islanders grew hostile, refusing to herd flocks and till fields as commanded.
It was in the shape of an animal pelt and each side depicted scenes very similar to the Lenape Stone.
When Eikichi and his band do this, the Joker is summoned, then drains all the players but Lisa of their "Ideal Energy" (the essence of hopes and dreams) using a crystal skull.
Ripley's principal opponents; whereas Ripley maintained, as did Vacher de Lapouge, that the European populace comprised three races, Joseph Deniker proposed that the European populace comprised ten races (six primary and four sub-races).
The Delphic Epsilon, which can be found on ancient Greek monuments but also on objects from the Inca civilisation, was established as the symbol of the Epsilon group.
The earliest layer of Greek loanwords was inherited from the variant of Vulgar Latin from which Romanian descends.
"Human biodiversity" (HBD), an alt-right euphemism for scientific racism, was one of the main publishing subjects of Washington Summit Publishers.
Despite this, the Turkic expression persisted long after the Mughal demise in 1857, which the Indian Muslim identity often intertwined to that of Turkic world in some occasions, despite also being very distinctively South Asian in their own.
He explains that sixteenth century map-makers "enlarge(d) … important sections of their charts," such as this bay, hence its exaggerated size.
Other larger ornaments were used for household and decorative tomb and funeral elements which have been identified as key elements of Quimbaya cultural traditions.
He notes that "generation after generation of the elder's of the Kalenjin-speaking people have passed on to the youth the tradition that their ancestors of antiquity migrated to East Africa from Misri".
External links An Early History – African American Mental Health Archived 2011-07-09 at the Wayback Machine
They have been cited by pseudoscientists and reporters in books, popular articles, and many web pages as inexplicable out-of-place artifacts that could only have been manufactured by intelligent beings.
The Davenport Tablets are three inscribed slate tablets found in mounds near Davenport, Iowa on January 10, 1877, and January 30, 1878.
The book details reports and interviews that document the effect of the electroculture process which had not been previously explained scientifically.
Across several papers in the 1960s, Fell proposed a four-subphylum system for Echinodermata (Crinozoa, Homalozoa, Asterozoa, and Echinozoa) to replace the long-standing two-subphylum system (Pelmatozoa and Eleutherozoa).
In popular culture Prapaatha, a 2010 Indian Kannada-language film by Suchendra Prasad, has a story line where a young man tries to find out works of Subbaraya Shastry.
Sarich, Emeritus Professor of Anthropology at the University of California, Berkeley, and Frank Miele, senior editor of Skeptic Magazine, argue for the reality of race, a view rejected by modern science.
[...] Mr Josyer showed some types of designs and drawings of a helicopter-type cargo-loading plane, specially meant for carrying combustibles and ammunition; passenger aircraft carrying 400 to 500 persons; and double- and triple-decked aircraft.
There have been many legends over the centuries of descent from the Ten Lost Tribes after groups converted to Christianity and Islam.
In the legend, the Kisii traveled south in the company of the Kuria, the Maragoli, Bukusu, and Meru.
Typically, these shales lie upon a 3–6 m (9.8–19.7 ft) thick bed of organic carbon-poor sandstone that separates them from the underlying volcanic rocks.
Still, antiquization seems to effectively address the negative sentiments of some Macedonians and their feeling of being rejected.
Both contemporary critics and later biographers have argued that some or all of these foreign visits were fictitious, and that she spent this period in Europe.
However, the scale of the construction would have been difficult to conceal, so an innocent explanation is most plausible.
The Lemurians were around fifteen feet tall, with brown skins and flat faces, no foreheads and prominent jaws.
Most notably there are numerous examples of Akkadian loanwords in both ancient and modern Aramaic languages.
Wilkins, in his book Strange Mysteries of Time and Space, wrote about the Mary Celeste, disappearances at Glastenbury Mountain, medieval mysteries, disappearing aircraft, ships, and people, including Ambrose Bierce and the fictitious David Lang disappearance, claimed by him to be factual.
These brothers mixed the entrails of a child into the god's meal, whereupon the enraged Zeus threw the meal over the table.
Theory Following studies in Iceland from 1825 to 1827, Rudolf Keyser was appointed as a docent at the Royal Frederick University in Christiania, Norway in 1828.
This narrative bears notable similarities to the Greek myth of Prometheus and the Georgian myth of Amirani.
Art Tracy's artworks relate to techniques of combining traditional paintbrushing and finger-painting with modern airbrushing.
capraria (the island of goats) and canaria (the island of dogs) are often found on maps separately from the Canary Islands (e.g.
Neither the Etruscan material culture or language has provided scholars with conclusive evidence regarding the Etruscans as one of the Sea Peoples.
The following year, 2002, marked the first meeting of CONAGO at which the governors of all 31 states attended.
Since 1982, the act can only be amended in Canada under the amending formula set out in the Constitution Act, 1982.
Many of the former functions of the central government were instead placed under the jurisdiction of the two national governments.
One of the first people to create an intellectual foundation for Belgian nationalism was the Walloon historian Henri Pirenne, who argued for the existence of a distinct Belgian nation in his book series Histoire de Belgique.
The first simultaneous census was held across Australia in 1881 as part of the Census of the British Empire.
The government of Sagasta did not oppose this announcement, permitting the restoration of the monarchy.
Bibliography Vogt, Gustav: "Revision der Lehre von den eidgenössischen Konkordaten", in: Revue de la Société des juristes bernois, 1, 1864, pp.
In May 2007, upon a change of the Belgian Constitution, the court was renamed Constitutional Court as this name is more in keeping with the actual jurisdiction of the court.
However, despite a common enemy, Czechoslovakia–Poland relations were less than friendly because of Polish–Czechoslovak border conflicts.
The Soviet of the Republic was established in 1989, as one of the chambers of the formerly unicameral Supreme Soviet, and elected in 1990.
Famine, such as that of 1983–1985, reliance on foreign aid, and the decline of the world communist movement, undermined the Derg/PDRE administrations.
Salmerón, unlike Pi, made it known he was willing to suppress rebellious cantons with force if necessary.
The 1999 constitutional revision retained the traditional distinction, on the request of the six cantonal governments, as a way to mark the historic association of the half-cantons to each other.
Cheng "The United States of China: How business is moving Taipei and Beijing together" - Asiaweek, July 6, 2001 Davis, Michael C.
Historically, the state of Jammu and Kashmir was accorded a status different from other States owing to an explicitly temporary provision of the Indian Constitution namely Article 370 (which was revoked by the Parliament in 2019).
Reichsrat deputies were members or representatives of the state ministries, and were bound by the instructions of their respective state governments.
References External links Breaking Point at IMDb [1] Breaking Point (2005) Pt.1 [2] Breaking Point (2005) Pt.
It was later qualified by Stephen J that it was necessary that the treaty at the very least deals with an area of international concern.
It is also called Butterfly Agreement (Dutch: Vlinderakkoord; French: Accord papillon), referring to the bow tie which Elio Di Rupo nearly always wears.
But it is a distinction adopted by the Constitution and it must be observed however much inter-dependence may now exist between the two divisions of trade and commerce which the Constitution thus distinguishes.
Salzburg is coterminous with the former Austro-Hungarian Duchy of Salzburg (the former Archbishopric).
State government has no role in implementing the matters falling in Union List unless mutually agreed upon per Article 258.
Higgins J found that the plaintiffs were not entitled to relief for procedural reasons, but expressed doubt as to whether the immigration power should be construed so widely, noting the distinction between a law with respect to immigration and one with respect to immigrants.
That approach followed the example of the Legislative Council of the Province of Canada, where the two sections, Canada East and Canada West, each had twenty-four seats.
It was the product of extensive negotiations between the provinces of British North America at the Charlottetown Conference in 1864, the Quebec Conference in 1864, and the London Conference in 1866.
The latter certainly lost importance with the promulgation of the Swiss Federal Constitution, but continued to be authorized (Article 7, paragraph 2 of the 1848 constitution and Article 48 of the 1999 constitution) and remained common practice.
The Administration of Justice in the Province, including the Constitution, Maintenance, and Organization of Provincial Courts, both of Civil and of Criminal Jurisdiction, and including Procedure in Civil Matters in those Courts.
Since the initial senators had been appointed in 1867, section 127 was no longer needed and was repealed.
In 1977 the Progressive Federal Party was started, which advocated power-sharing through a federal constitution.
Castriciones succeeded Hinlo as party president when the latter decided to run for senator in the 2019 elections.
It met to debate and co-ordinate government activities between the federal and state or territorial governments and between the state and territorial governments themselves as well as issues affecting local government.
Composition Parties involved in government are shaded; parties leading governments are indicated in bold.
Beginning with Guangdong as a model state, he wanted to organize a "United States of China in the manner of the American experience" through negotiation with federalists from all parts of the country.
The provincial power to regulate security interests under the property and civil-rights power will be displaced by security interests created under a federal head of power – most notably under the banking power – but only to the extent that federal law has covered the field.
There is no bright line test as to what falls within the area of criminal procedure, as Dickson J conceded in Di Iorio v Warden of the Montreal Jail: The phrase "criminal procedure" does not lend itself to precise definition.
The Sixth Schedule to the Constitution of India provides measures of autonomy and self-governance to the Scheduled Tribes in the hill regions of Northeast India.
Related provisions Section 92(13) gives the provinces exclusive jurisdiction over property and civil rights.
See also National Cabinet Council of Australian Governments Council of the Federation References External links CAF
His oratory was crushing: Francisco Silvela said that in his speeches, Salmerón only used one weapon—artillery.
This power has become known as "the corporations power", the extent of which has been the subject of numerous judicial cases.
Only since the early 2000s has the number of cases of imposition of President's rule has been drastically reduced.
Beneš's support for the Soviet Union went so far that during his 1943 visit to the US, he argued that the Soviet Union would never be a threat to either Czechoslovakia or Poland.
1993: Fourth state reform The fourth state reform is called the "Sint-Michiels agreement" and took place in 1993 under Prime Minister Jean-Luc Dehaene.
The Anti-Federalists thus became recognized as an influential group among the Founding Fathers of the United States.
Barbuda’s secession request The government is taking the unprecedented step of presenting the matter to the Parliament after it received a letter from the Barbuda Council requesting that discussions commence on the separation of Barbuda from Antigua.
Quenelles de brochet are prepared in many ways, but most recipes first prepare a panade, essentially a thick white sauce, then combine the panade with fish, and put the mixture through a sieve such as a tamis, yielding a forcemeat.
This form of chili was most likely encountered by Christopher Columbus on his trip to the New World and brought back to Spain, where it later spread to Europe, India, and beyond.
Kramarczuk's, a James Beard Award-winning Ukrainian deli in Minneapolis, makes and sells Union Hmong Kitchen branded Hmong sausage.
Salt pork that contains a significant amount of meat, resembling standard side bacon, is known as "streak o' lean." It is traditionally popular in the Southeastern United States.
Bacon is distinguished from other salt-cured pork by differences in the cuts of meat used and in the brine or dry packing.
Dopo was founded in 2003 and Adesso was spun off in February 2009 when the owners acquired additional nearby space.
In this process, fresh cabbage is fermented in a light brine, where the sugars in the cabbage are transformed by lactofermentation to lactic acid which gives the cabbage a sour flavour and good keeping qualities.
Chipotle production involves using firewood to dry and smoke the red jalapeño for six days in an open-smoker installation.
Meat confit is a specialty of the southwest of France (Toulouse, Dordogne, and other areas) and is used in dishes such as cassoulet.
The recipe is practically identical with German Rouladen, perhaps omitting wine and adding a wedge of hard boiled egg and/or frankfurter to the filling.
The marinade typically contains various spices, herbs, and vegetables, including tomatoes, onions, powdered dried chilis, garlic, and vinegar.
When cooked in tomato sauce, the sauce itself is used to toss the pasta for the first course, giving a consistent taste to the whole meal.
There have been limited industrial applications of PEF processing for the pasteurization of fruit juices.
Confit (, French pronunciation: [kɔ̃fi]; Occitan: Confisat) (from the French word confire, literally "to preserve") is any type of food that is cooked slowly over a long period as a method of preservation.
In valence bond theory, it is described as a resonance hybrid with equal contributions from two canonical forms that are mirror images of each other.
The Middle Ages made pâté a masterpiece: that which is, in the 21st century, merely spiced minced meat (or fish), baked in a terrine and eaten cold, was at that time composed of a dough envelope stuffed with varied meats and superbly decorated for ceremonial feasts.
In the United Kingdom, a pork leg cut, either whole or sliced, that has been cured but requires additional cooking is known as gammon.
Noumboulo (from Venetian nombolo: loin) is a traditional charcuterie product of the Island of Corfu.
They may also be cooked in a wide variety of non-pottery terrine moulds, such as stainless steel, aluminium, enameled cast iron, and ovenproof plastic.
Customization can be accommodated by varying the duration of the smoking or placement of a batch relative to the source of heat and smoke, in addition to the leaf selection.
The East Slavic, Hungarian and Romanian variety may also be cured with paprika or other seasonings added, whereas the South and West Slavic version is often smoked.
Adding nitrites to meat has been shown to generate known carcinogens; the World Health Organization (WHO) advises that eating 50 g (1.8 oz) of nitrite processed meat a day would raise the risk of getting bowel cancer by 18% over a lifetime.
History and occurrence In 1956, two British scientists, John Barnes and Peter Magee, reported that a simple member of the large class of N-nitrosamines, dimethylnitrosamine, produced liver tumours in rats.
2017 Leuconostoc citrovorum The name Leuconostoc citrovorum (Hammer) Hucker and Pederson 1931 was rejected in 1971 as a nomen dubium by the Judicial Commission of International Committee on Systematics of Prokaryotes (in Opinion 45).
Without such a mixer unit, the additives must be mixed into the meat after grinding it, which adversely affects the taste and appearance of most products.
The association has developed a point system for judging the quality of ice sculptures created in timed competitions and certifies competition judges.
Tinned pâté, being shelf-stable, has sometimes been included in military rations, for, among others, the French Armed Forces, whose rations have included tinned pâté for more than 100 years.
From this derived the French word boucane and hence the name boucanier for French hunters who used such frames to smoke meat from feral cattle and pigs on Hispaniola (now Haiti and the Dominican Republic).
When they are deep red and have lost much of their moisture, they are picked to be made into chipotles.
Throughout much of the rest of Europe and parts of the English-speaking culinary world, speck is usually South Tyrolean speck, a type of Italian smoked ham.
In French cuisine, galantine (French: [galɑ̃tin]) is a dish of boned, stuffed meat, most commonly poultry or fish, that is usually poached and served cold, often coated with aspic.
Salo is often chopped into small pieces and fried to render fat for cooking, while the remaining shkvarky (a type of cracklings) are used as condiments for fried potatoes or varenyky or spread on bread as a snack.
D’Artagnan's line of products became more available to the consumer public when it began selling items to major grocery stores Balducci's and the Food Emporium in 1996.
The French refer only to duck and goose confits as true confits; other meats poached in duck or goose fat are considered en confit ("in confit").
Alinazik kebab, or simply Ali Nazik, is a home-style Turkish dish which is a specialty of the Gaziantep province of Turkey.
It is formed by extrusion through a die to the desired diameter, dried and shirred into short sticks up to 41 cm (16 in) long that contain as much as 50 m (160 ft) of casing.
The meat industry considers nitrites irreplaceable because they speed up curing and improve color while retarding the growth of Clostridium botulinum, the bacteria that causes botulism.
See also Maceration (food) Confit byaldi Fruit preserves Philippine adobo Potted meat Rendang References Further reading Larousse gastronomique: the encyclopedia of food, wine & cookery, Ed.
Overview Since 1975, the company has grown from a neighborhood take-out shop in Greenwich Village into a nationally distributed specialty food brand.
Texas In Texas, the hot link is typically prepared with beef, and is usually cooked over indirect heat.
It is usually baked, fried or grilled and often accompanies other dishes, sometimes as part of tapas.
Its style has been influenced by the California cuisine of the nearby Chez Panisse, as well as the charcuterie of Oliveto, a nearby restaurant that was one of the first in the country to have an in-house charcuterie program.
Old French jambon is attested since the 13th century and is derived from Old French jambe (gambe in Old North French) which in turn is derived from the Late Latin gamba, meaning "leg/hock of a horse/animal".
These are available in all diameters and in put ups from short up to medium length, about 6 meter minimum, with a maximum length of about 14 meters.
There is also another approach of impregnating packaging materials (plastic films or other) with antioxidants and antimicrobials.
However, a variety of monoids has the property that all its members are compact if and only if all finitely generated members satisfy the maximal condition on congruences (any family of congruences, ordered by inclusion, has a maximal element).
If balancing is used at any point, it is used for all points below it on the following list ("to the right" in traditional wording of the deranking hierarchy) Relevant clauses for each example are italicised.
A secondary predicate is a (mostly adjectival) predicative expression that conveys information about the subject or the object but is not the main predicate of the clause.
They qualify as an abstract family of languages (furthermore a full AFL) and hence satisfy many closure properties.
The block has four standardized variants defined to specify emoji-style (U+FE0F VS16) or text presentation (U+FE0E VS15) for the two emoji, both of which default to a text presentation.
For many people, the notion of agency is easy to grasp intuitively but difficult to define: typical qualities that a grammatical agent often has are that it has volition, is sentient or perceives, causes a change of state, or moves.
(The act of killing Edward is good to fear) "I'm glad I'm a man, and so is Lola" from the song "Lola" by the Kinks (written by Ray Davies) Lola and I are both glad I'm a man.
Kai is the most frequent word in any Greek text, and thus used by statisticians to assess authorship of ancient manuscripts based on the number of times it is used.
Syntactic ambiguity Demonstrations of ambiguity between alternative syntactic structures underlying a sentence.
An example is the following, which is from a letter by an ex-consul Servius Sulpicius Rufus to Cicero: circiter hōrā decimā noctis P.
This practice, known as address munging, attempts to make the email addresses less vulnerable to spam programs that scan the internet for them.
In the Romance languages, the demonstrative pro-forms function as correlatives with the relative pro-forms, as autant–que in French; in English, demonstratives are not used in such constructions, which depend on the relative only: "I saw what you did", rather than *"I saw that, what you did".
Given the restriction to one specific area of the Indo-European world, it may have been a dialectal regionalism within the proto-language.
The modal semantics of the augmentless forms may then be a later development within Indo-Iranian or Indo-Aryan.
If p = f(q) for some patterns p, q ∈ P* and some substitution f, then p is said to be less general than q, written p≤q; in that case, necessarily |p| ≥ |q| holds.
While the "universal grinder" can be used in many Indo-European languages, most particularly English and Dutch, it does not apply in all languages; there is considerable cross-linguistic variation in the morphology and semantics of the mass/count and singular/plural distinctions.
Like any top-down recursive descent parsing, the conventional parser combinators (like the combinators described above) will not terminate while processing a left-recursive grammar (e.g.
In 2017, Marian Wilson Kimber published a book focusing on the once-popular female dominated genre of elocution set to musical accompaniment.
See also Kaige revision, group of Greek-language Septuagint Bible versions that frequently use Koine Greek: και γε [kai ge] ('and indeed').
An anankastic conditional is a grammatical construction of the form If you want X, you have to do Y.
Honorifics Many languages express person with different morphemes in order to distinguish degrees of formality and informality.
In Icelandic, it is referred to as atmerkið ("the at sign") or hjá, which is a direct translation of the English word at.
A system of equations is a subset E of the Cartesian product X∗ × X∗ of the free monoid (finite strings) over X with itself.
Based on this algorithm, the class of pattern languages can be identified in the limit from positive examples.
Basic idea In any programming language that has first-class functions, parser combinators can be used to combine basic parsers to construct parsers for more complex rules.
Against Locke, he held that language is involved in the creation of ideas and is not merely a medium to communicate them.
Different forms Globally ambiguous A globally ambiguous sentence is one that has at least two distinct interpretations and where reading the entire sentence does not resolve the ambiguity.
About the book The book is used by English language students, especially those from non-English-speaking countries, as a practice and reference book.
It appears in the titles of some stage and screen works, especially comedies and musicals; examples include the game show Jeopardy!; the '60s musical TV show Shindig!; musicals Oklahoma!, Mamma Mia!, Oliver!, and Oh!
It literally means 'water last water' and refers to 'water for washing the hands after meal, grace water'.
Gerald Gazdar (1988) and Vijayashanker (1987) introduced a mildly context-sensitive language class now known as linear indexed grammars (LIG).
For patterns of different length, the above example p = 0x10xx1 and q = xxy shows that L(p) ⊆ L(q) may hold without implying p ≤ q.
This insight revolutionized Arabic literary theory, Qurʾanic exegesis (tafsīr), and the philosophy of language.
A central goal in LFG research is to create a model of grammar with a depth which appeals to linguists while at the same time being efficiently parsable and having the rigidity of formalism which computational linguists require.
In English, examples of correlative pairs are both–and, either–or, neither–nor, the–the ("the more the better"), so–that ("it ate so much food that it burst"), and if–then.
Some Algonquian languages and Salishan languages divide the category of third person into two parts: proximate for a more topical third person, and obviative for a less topical third person.
As with indirect questions, the tense of the subjunctive depends on whether the context is present or past.
(Cicero) 'then I showed the tablets to Lentulus and asked if he recognised the seal; he nodded.' quaesīvī ā Catilīnā in nocturnō conventū apud M.
Hopcroft and Ullman (1979) call such nonterminals nullable, and compute them as follows: If a rule A → ε exists, then A is nullable.
However, in the English translation, the determiner the does not have theta-features since English is considered not to assign theta-features to its determiners.
Integrational Lexical Semantics (with Integrational Morphosemantics and Integrational Word Semantics as its parts) combines the psychological and the realist traditions in semantics.
In such cases, attention should be paid to a conclusion's underlying argument so that the language used is both simple and precise.
These correspond to the discourse functions statement, question, exclamation, and command respectively.
Following these studies, it was concluded that the J-rules comprising the syntacto-semantic base of the model proffered a pool of structural possibilities from which all natural languages draw, but that none necessarily uses them all nor the same subset.
Typical Spanish pleonasms Voy a subir arriba – I am going to go up upstairs, "arriba" not being necessary.
The specific ratio decidendi of the decision is debated, but the judgments provide guidance and authoritative discussion used in later cases.
Origin and content Legal development Until 1943, the legal basis for abortion in Germany was the Reich Criminal Code passed in 1871 with Sections 218–220, the punishment for which had been softened in a new version passed in 1926.
Washington In 1980, the mother of a mentally incompetent minor petitioned the court for an order authorizing the sterilization of the minor.
All Islamic schools of thought agree that abortion is recommended when the mother's life is in danger as the mother's life is paramount.
When taken within 72 hours of sex without contraception, Plan B and generics can help prevent an unwanted pregnancy.
In October 2013, Religion Dispatches moved to the University of Southern California's Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism's website.
In a 2003 Gallup poll, 72% of respondents were in favor of notification to the husband, with 26% opposed; of those polled, 79% of males and 67% of females responded in favor of notification inside married couples.
The couple claimed on two bases: first, the physical discomfort suffered by the wife from the pregnancy, confinement, and delivery; second, the financial costs for the caring of and bringing up of a child.
Although her name was on the patents for the device, Organon licensed the product to three over-the-counter pharmaceutical companies, and Crane never received a penny for her design.
Young provided evidence that a number of employees received accommodations while suffering similar or more serious disabilities.
Turkey The Constitution of Turkey guarantees security of person, along with the right to liberty, in Article 19, enacted in 1982 and amended in 2001.
Society and culture In 2021, Unicode approved the "pregnant man" and "pregnant person" emojis in version 14.0, and added to Emoji 14.0.
Of those that have ratified it, 12 exceed its provisions, 11 fully comply with the provisions, 16 partially comply, and 4 do not comply.
TFMR made a submission calling for a repeal of the Eighth Amendment and the removal of abortion from criminal law.
Beatie and his wife Nancy wanted a child, however, since she was unable to conceive due to prior medical complications, Beatie went off of HRT and became pregnant with the help of a sperm donor.
Nebraska Putative Father Registry Form - Nebraska Search Registry Form New Mexico - The New Mexico Department of Health, Vital Records website has a brief description of the registry and includes forms to search and to register, the links and form names even match.
The 1920 abortion laws of France have not been entirely repealed leading to ambiguity in the nation's policies.
Some chest masculinization surgeries prohibit people from chestfeeding at all, but some surgeries maintain the mammary glands and just remove breast tissue.
Europe Legislation allowing chemical castration exists in France, the United Kingdom, Poland, Russia, North Macedonia, Belgium and Turkey.
Many women make multiple attempts at abortions, as they seek out professional services after inexpensive methods often fail.
Fetal viability means the point in pregnancy when, in the professional judgment of the patient's treating health care practitioner, there is a significant likelihood of the fetus' sustained survival outside the uterus without the application of extraordinary medical measures.
The Abortion Support Network is a UK charity and abortion fund which provides financial assistance, accommodation and consultation to people in Europe who are seeking an abortion abroad.
Lord Steyn advances a distributive justice argument, that the court needed to consider whether spreading the burden across society was just, which for wrongful conception, it was not.
To date, PEI is the only Canadian province that does not perform surgical abortions on its own soil.
In 2020–21, Goodwin received the University of California's highest honor, the Distinguished Senior Faculty Award for Research.
It could also have psychological consequences for the woman, and would lead to poor mother-child relations as the child matures.
In South Africa, Cape Malays used red geraniums, Khoekhoe people used thorn bushes, and Zulu people used a shrub called uhlungughlungu.
WGNRR's two primary campaigns are the International Day of Action for Women's Health (May 28) and the International Day of Action for Access to Safe and Legal Abortion (September 28).
Section 1(a) of this law recognized "the right of the individual to life, liberty, security of the person and enjoyment of property, and the right not to be deprived thereof except by due process of law." However, the Bill of Rights was a statute and not part of the Constitution.
Before the embryo was implanted, Robinson signed a contract stating she would carry the pregnancy to term and relinquish her parental rights in favor of her brother and Hollingsworth.
Offspring limitation facilitated the financial stability of the influential families, preserving social order, and the males of these castes were required to perform important religious rituals.
Given the contentious nature of abortion, lawmakers and other stakeholders often face controversy in defining abortion.
He is afraid of Cú Chulainn's reaction if he exercises it in this case, but is equally afraid of losing his authority if he does not.
Litigation In 2009 the women, assisted by the Southern Africa Litigation Centre, the Namibia Women's Health Network and the Legal Assistance Centre, sued the government for damages, claiming that sterilisation without informed consent violates a number of rights.
Some criminologists even suggest that offenders may sell their prescribed medications on the black market, giving them extra income to fund ways to conceal their criminal behaviour more effectively than untreated offenders.
Background The amendment was primarily sponsored by Wyoming State Senator Leslie Nutting (7th district) intended to prohibit people from being compelled to participate in the ACA.
Dorf, the amendment would protect the right to abortion in the state of New York by ensuring that prohibiting abortion would be an unconstitutional form of health-care discrimination because they would be "singling out one form of reproductive health care, and not other kinds of health care".
The case has been viewed as a victory by advocates for the rights of sperm donors and the men's rights movement.
The form, which is called a "Notice of Intent to Claim Paternity - Paternity Registry," also notes that a non-married putative father may have to register in other states along with Texas.
179 (1973), was a decision of the United States Supreme Court overturning the abortion law of Georgia.
Synopsis Policing the Womb centers the criminalization of birth and other aspects of reproduction in the United States, such as contraception and abortion.
Goodwin argues in favor of widening current "choice" movements to reproductive justice, an expansive framework inclusive of domains like abortion access, healthcare, and mass incarceration.
Initiative 434 and Initiative 439 were mutually exclusive; only the one with more votes in favor would become law in the event both amendments passed.
Results The following table details the results by county: Impact on abortion Following the US Supreme Court's decision in Dobbs v.
These bills, referred to as TRAP laws (Targeted Regulation of Abortion Provider), implement medically unnecessary restrictions for clinics that will be difficult or impossible for providers to meet, therefore forcing clinics to close under the guise of increasing the safety of the procedure.
In addition to associating plots, rejecting false alarms and estimating heading and speed, the radar tracker also acts as a filter, in which errors in the individual radar measurements are smoothed out.
NANU types Forecast outages FCSTDV, or Forecast Delta-V, gives scheduled outage times for Delta-V maneuvers.
The SWEPOS system permits mobile GPS/GLONASS receivers to receive detailed positioning data down to the centimeter level.
The first Bluetooth RTLS provider in the medical industry is supporting this in their article: "The fact that RFID cannot be used near sensitive equipment should in itself be a red flag to the medical industry".
The image of deformable objects can be covered with a mesh, the motion of the object is defined by the position of the nodes of the mesh.
SAASM does not provide any additional anti-jam capability, however, the higher data (chipping) rate of P(Y) code can provide a higher processing gain which will provide better tracking performance in a jamming environment.
This adds visual context to events, which is used for proactive driver coaching using AI, accident reconstruction, and insurance claim validation.
Navigation systems employ similar, but slightly more complex, methods than surveillance systems to obtain delay differences.
The defendant appealed to the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals, which found the warrantless data collection had violated his constitutional rights under the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution, but declined to order a new trial because the evidence was collected in good faith.
The SWEPOS network of reference stations began as a co-operation between the National Land Survey of Sweden and Onsala Space Observatory.
On the Cross Island Parkway, Palmetto Pass users previously received a 50-cent discount at the main toll booth (paying .75 cents compared to the $1.25 cash toll rate).
Design The Sniper is a single, lightweight targeting pod with much lower aerodynamic drag than the systems it replaces.
Consequently, by determining whether a direct signal is being received from a given satellite, the user can localize their position to within one of two areas of the street.
It features VoicePins for personalized location annotations, an 'Explore Near Me' function for discovering nearby points of interest, comprehensive Google_TalkBack support, and a feedback-enabled compass.
Active 10 BIKE (the device, a bike mount and a power pack including adaptors and a 2700mAh lithium polymer rechargeable battery.
Vonage has encouraged its customers to register the locations from which their 911 calls could be dialed with the local public safety answering point.
In September 2020, The Times reported that trials were being conducted at six sites in the UK, including Epping Forest in Essex.
NextBus is developed by Nextbus Information Systems, Inc., a subsidiary of Cubic Transportation Systems, for buses, trams, light rail operations and other public transport vehicles.
Moreover, the platform was also able to compensate most of known issues of local magnetic field variability.
For smaller species, including social insects, barcode-based tracking systems allow automated identification and monitoring of hundreds of individuals simultaneously.
The ICARUS project currently implements 5 g radio transmitters that include a GPS receiver, but has plans to use devices weighing less than 1 g in the future.
Auracast Auracast implements public audio broadcasting services, allowing multiple receivers to connect to a single audio transmitter without going through the Bluetooth device pairing first.
FCSTEXTD, or Forecast Extension, extends the scheduled outage time "Until Further Notice"; references the original NANU.
Windows-compatible video devices like webcams are supported, as well as special Nintendo Wii Remote camera, iPhone Truedepth camera with Eyeware Beam, and NaturalPoint cameras (TrackIR, SmartNav and OptiTrack).
This elevated flight path allows the missile to capitalize on reduced air resistance at higher altitudes, increasing both the missile's potential energy and the kinetic energy during terminal guidance, thus enabling greater range and probability of kill.
The shadow matching positioning principle was first proposed and the name 'shadow matching' was first introduced by Paul D Groves.
The company's business network consists of more than 2,500 partners, including telematic service providers and systems integrators, in over 150 countries.
TOA from two base stations will narrow a position to a position circle; data from a third base station is required to resolve the precise position to a single point.
Modulation codes Coarse/acquisition code The C/A PRN codes are Gold codes with a period of 1023 chips transmitted at 1.023 Mchip/s, causing the code to repeat every 1 millisecond.
Android and iOS devices also have very different battery impact depending on type of scans and the number of Bluetooth Low Energy devices in the vicinity.
The differences between the first and second generation systems are as follows: Services Lexus Link is offered in the continental U.S.
In response, LocationSmart took the vulnerable service offline and claimed the company "takes privacy seriously".
The functionality was "opt in" and had to be enabled by users due to the sensitivity of location data.
Satellite During the use of Starlink satellites in the Russo-Ukrainian War, SpaceX used geofencing to limit the use of Starlink Internet services outside the borders of Ukraine such as in Russian-occupied territories in Ukraine.
The Driveway app was the first telematics solution in the auto insurance industry to offer automatic trip detection, to function with no hardware dependency, and to bear no significant impact on the performance or battery life of user smartphones.
Disadvantages In comparison to sea-skimming trajectories, lofting lacks radar-avoidance characteristics, making it susceptible to detection by its target and potential interceptors.
That is, although each input is biased in some way, the observation from different dimensions and angles are biased in different ways.
Almanac data can be received from any of the GPS satellites and is considered valid for up to 180 days.
History Based in Thalwil, Switzerland, u-blox is a spin-off of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich (ETH) and was founded in 1997.
Starting from 2000, the government under President Vladimir Putin made the restoration of GLONASS a top priority; its funding was doubled and after a lull of several years, launches were restarted again.
This technology is the foundation for a wide range of applications, from consumer services for finding lost or stolen devices to enterprise platforms for fleet management and employee monitoring.
Background Cellular telephones make optimal use of limited radio spectrum and their short transmission range, due to low power, by always connecting to a radio antenna at a nearby facility, known as a cell site.
As of October 2017, L2C was being broadcast from 19 satellites; by June 2022 there were 24 satellites broadcasting this signal.
It differs from the true range between the vehicle and station i {\displaystyle i} by an offset, or bias, which is the same for every signal.
Deployment of the next generation military signal for GPS, called M-code, commenced with the launch of IIR-M and IIF satellites, beginning in 2005.
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, factory output and transportation demand fell, bringing overall demand for oil down as well, and causing oil prices to fall.
Multisectoral:This includes undertakings that cut across more than one sector and often supports the activities of Social Investment Funds, whose projects are usually demand-driven at a local level and have a strong element of community participation.
Wells that have been used as injectors or have been subject to fracking operation are more likely to develop leaks because the injected substances can create channels that permit uncontrolled flow outside the casing.
See also Psychology of previous investment Capital expenditure References Oilfield Glossary EPA Well Abandonment Cost Form
Saudi Arabia and other oil-exploiting countries of the region received up to 50% of the profits in cooperation with American oil companies at the same time.
Agriculture and ranching grew stronger as the rapidly expanding population created more demand for their produce.
In the absence of external shocks, an economic equilibrium relationship between the two should exist.
Rasau is part of an 11-kilometre road connecting Sungai Teraban and Sungai Tujoh, which facilitates easier travel between Brunei and Sarawak's Miri Division, including Miri and surrounding areas.
For light oils and rich gas condensates the ultimate GOR of export streams is strongly influenced by the efficiency with which the processing plant strips liquids from the gas phase.
A new intraday record high of $78.40 was set on July 14, 2006, prompted by the firing of at least six missiles by North Korea on July 4–5, 2006, and escalating Middle East violence.
As Carlos entered the conference room and fired shots into the ceiling, the delegates ducked under the table.
The gas/oil ratio (GOR) is the ratio of the volume of gas ("scf") that comes out of solution to the volume of oil — at standard conditions.
Family and education Ghafour Youssefiani born on March 19, 1928, was the first child of Mirza Ahmad Youssefiani, born in Saqqez, Iran, into a Saqqez-based Iranian family of Kurdish heritage.
September–October 2000: 30 million barrels (4,800,000 m3) in response to a concern over low distillate levels in the northeastern U.S.
In 2024, the revenue generated by SOFAZ from the sale of oil from the ACG field was US$ 5,725 billion.
Poorer members have pushed for production cuts from fellow members, to increase the price of oil and thus their own revenues.
Such behaviour, predicted by all canonical industry / market pricing models (perfect competition, monopoly) is called symmetric price transmission.
Wanda Jablonski (23 August 1920, in Czechoslovakia – 28 January 1992, in New York City) was an American journalist who covered the global petroleum industry.
22% of stations in London and the South-East remained without fuel and 40% were lacking one of the main fuel grades.
The interrupter is based on a formula that will determine whether the market prices of fuels have changed enough to warrant a price change .
Katz, Praeger/Greenwood, ISBN 0-275-93380-6 External links Energy Information Administration: Petroleum Chronology of Events 1970–2000 174 Years of Historic Houston: Oil Glut and the Economic Downturn
Atlanta-based ICE operates four regulated futures exchanges, two over-the-counter markets and five clearing houses globally.
An annual rate of decline of 5.1% in 800 of the world's largest oil fields was reported by the International Energy Agency in their World Energy Outlook 2008.
This causes Export Land's net exports over the five-year period to fall from 1 mbpd to 0.3 mbpd, a decrease of 70% -- resulting from a combination of increasing domestic consumption in Export Land and a 25% drop in production.
As the figures represent a single month rather than full-year averages, they may be subject to short-term fluctuations caused by factors such as maintenance shutdowns, seasonal variations, or geopolitical events.
They contend that the peak of industrial civilization did not occur in 1979, but rather after 2004, with the duration of industrial civilization projected to extend from 1950 to 2044.
As part of the Russo-Ukrainian war, Ukrainian drones had occasionally targeted Russian refineries since 2024, causing expense and inconvenience.
Eventually, however, the level of export decline outpaces the increasing oil price, slowing domestic growth.
Lower quality of life makes it more difficult to attract the additional population needed to support growth of services.
Treasury securities and in other financial markets of the major industrial economies, often directed discreetly by government entities now known as sovereign wealth funds.
Johnston reportedly promised significant donations to the Liberal Party and an attempt was made to secure a funding grant from the government's A$500-million Low Emission Technology Demonstration Fund.
Due to the risk of confusion The Society of Petroleum Engineers recommends in their style guide that abbreviations or prefixes M or MM are not used for barrels of oil or barrel of oil equivalent, but rather that thousands, millions or billions are spelled out.
Consumer price inflation has declined from the 38.8% experienced in 1994 following the CFA franc devaluation, to 7.8% in 1998, and 1.0% in 1999, according to BEAC data.
Overview The Platts assessment process determines the value of physical commodities 15–30 days forward for many oil products loading in Singapore.
Faisal felt his efforts on behalf the United States were not being appreciated in Washington, which increased his fury at Nixon.
Viable mitigation options exist on both the supply and demand sides, but to have substantial impact, they must be initiated more than a decade in advance of peaking.
Since the invention of agriculture, humans have increasingly used exogenous sources of energy to multiply human muscle power.
Critics of the steady-state economy usually object to it by arguing that resource decoupling, technological development, and the operation of market mechanisms are capable of overcoming resource scarcity, pollution, or population overshoot.
Such moves strain the confidence of international oil companies in forming partnerships with Russia.
The oil depletion allowance in American (US) tax law is a tax break claimable by anyone with an economic interest in a mineral deposit or standing timber.
This causes $2 trillion USD of stock to become worthless, and oil workers are dismissed as the industry collapses.
Gas Initially In Place = Gross Rock Volume * Net/Gross * Porosity * average initial Gas Saturation / Formation Volume Factor == References ==
All those multiples are commonly combined with barrel of oil equivalent from the level of individual production units output per day to level of petroleum reserves.
The company also operates 105 "Ahlain" convenience stores across the country, which include everyday products, restaurants and cafés.
Through persistent, joyous exposure to Torah study and observance of mitzvot, the nefesh habehamit can be trained to desire spiritual and divine pleasures.
and the rest of creation (experience) individually pleasure or displeasure, pain, great terror, and unhappiness" (1.1.6).
Respiration is the process by which breathing helps to cool and moderate the inner vital heat (thermotēta psychikēs) held in the heart.
Epiphenomenalism posits that physical events generate mental events, but mental events themselves lack causal power—they cannot influence physical events or even other mental phenomena.
After this he got up from the cricket and pronounced the ease and rest of the soul departed, for which he would pawn his own soul.
"De la migrance ä l'errance ou les Italiens entre «La Mort du Grand Pan» et «La Procession des Morts»".
Such past impressions form a kind of sheath between the Over-soul and its true identity, as they give rise to the tendency of identification with the gross differentiated body.
Joseph Smith, founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, believed that "there is no such thing as immaterial matter.
Lapis manalis When a new town was founded, a round hole would be dug and a stone called a lapis manalis would be placed in the foundations, representing a gate to the underworld.
Christian philosophy In his Introduction to the 1964 book Meditations, the Anglican priest Maxwell Staniforth discussed the profound impact of Stoicism on Christianity.
Peter Lombard's creando infundit animas Deus et infundendo creat ("in creating, God pours in the soul, and in pouring, He creates") was an accepted formula.
The kind of mental activity conducted in the Phren involves what 20th and 21 Century Western thinkers consider both feeling and thinking; scholars have remarked that Ancient Greeks located this activity in the torso as opposed to the head.
He saw all attainment of knowledge not as acquiring new information, but as remembering previously known information.
On the other hand, some Jews object to using the phrase for Jews, considering it to reflect a Christian perspective.
He relates Socrates' ideas about Thymos and desire to how people want to be recognized within their government.
History and cosmology Jon Atack, whose book A Piece of Blue Sky details how he reached Operating Thetan level V before leaving Scientology, describes Hubbard's doctrines about thetans: "Thetans are all-knowing beings, and became bored because there were no surprises.
So that if ever we find these contradictions in the functions of the mind we shall know that it was not the same thing functioning but a plurality." (This is an example of Plato's principle of non-contradiction).
See also Scales of justice (symbol) Libra Particular judgment Punishment of the Grave References Further reading Media related to Weighing of souls at Wikimedia Commons Brandon, S.
Believing themselves to be travelling into other realms, shamans either descend into an underworld (cf.
In Nazi ideology, the race-soul, race soul or racial soul (German: Rassenseele) is a mystical racial psyche greater than any individual member of the German race.
The pneuma in its most rarefied and fiery form serves as the animal soul (psychê); it pervades the organism, governs its movements, and endows it with powers of perception and reproduction.
In the same radio programme, Presbyterian Ken Newell disagreed that people are praying for the dead when they use the phrase.
(In Sanskrit the word param means "supreme" and atman means "soul"; thus Paramatman literally means "Supreme-Soul".) The term is used frequently in discussion of Eastern metaphysics and has also entered western vernacular.
The breakthrough to the divinity at the ground of the soul Eckhart posits that the goal should not be to stop at the concept of God, but rather to "break through" to the Godhead.
Before a person could be judged by the gods, they had to be "awakened" through a series of funerary rites designed to reanimate their mummified remains in the afterlife.
Contrary to Pelagius' view of human nature, Augustine of Hippo taught that because of original sin, the human nature we receive at birth has been "wounded, hurt, damaged, destroyed" and that, therefore, man is incapable of doing or desiring good apart from the sovereignty of grace.
In Ireland on 16 March 1831 Baron Pennefather in Limerick stated that pregnancy was not alone sufficient for a delay but there had to be quickening.
See also References External links "The Over-Soul" at Google Books "The Over-Soul" at Emerson Central.
Accordingly, the Hebrew word נֶ֫פֶשׁ‎ (nephesh)—though translated as "soul" in some older English-language Bibles—actually has a meaning closer to "living being".
As Plotinus himself put it:Therefore ‘it cannot be said’ or ‘written’, he says [Plato, Letter 7, 341c], but we speak and write, sending on to it and wakening from words [or explanations] towards contemplation, as if showing the way to him who wishes to see something.
By the spirit Adam knows right from wrong and guidance from error and he camouflages and learns and manages all of his affairs.
Jainism Jains practise pratikraman (Sanskrit "introspection"), a process of repentance of wrongdoings during their daily life, and remind themselves to refrain from doing so again.
The air is full of an innumerable multitude of peoples [Sylphs] of human figure, a little proud in appearance, but docile indeed: great lovers of the sciences, subtle, officious to the wise, and enemies of the foolish and ignorant.
See also Druze Gilgul Saṃsāra Yazidis Yaʽfuriyya Shia Zalmoxis References External links The Columbia Encyclopedia: Transmigration of souls or Metempsychosis Sturt, Henry (1911).
Immanuel Kant added that, if they are understood too narrowly, introspective experiments are impossible.
Whatever is already a complete individual substance cannot enter into composition with another to form a new substantial whole without undergoing corruption.
Relation to human anatomy The Tanya states that the nefesh ha'elokit resides primarily in the brain, from which it spreads throughout the body.
Any system that creates political inequality is necessarily feeding the megalothymia of some members while denying it to others.
1650–1716) includes the following description of the sin-eating ritual in his Letter on Leland's Collectanea, i.
Fearing their power, Zeus split them in half, condemning each to spend their lives searching for its missing counterpart (the term used by Plato is τὸ ἕτερον ἥμισυ, tó héteros ímisy, lit.
As it occurs in the Faerie Queene of Spenser, "heavenly light" is associated with knights in full armour, and with the purity of the human soul, picking up on Christian mysticism's view of the soul illuminating the body.
However, whether the rational soul is infused into the organism at conception, as the modern opinion holds, or some weeks subsequently, as medieval scholastics supposed, is an open question to some theologians.
The natural spirit originated from the food and the drink, the origin of the vital spirit was from the atmospheric air .
The concept of an immaterial and immortal soul—distinct from the corporeal body—did not appear in Judaism before the Babylonian exile, instead developing as a result of interaction with Persian and Hellenistic philosophies.
Tussar silk is considered more textured than cultivated Bombyx or "mulberry" silk, but it has shorter fibres, which makes it less durable.
In 1987, a plant was purchased in Berks County, Pennsylvania but the debt created by the purchase eventually led to the company having to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy.
In order to receive a permit, one must complete an application and return it to the nearest banding office.
It was calendered and pressed so firmly on the surface that no cotton yarns could be seen, while the back side of the fabric shows all cotton yarns with little silk.
It was unearthed at the archeological site at Çatalhöyük in Turkey and dates to 8000-9000 years ago.
It is grown ornamentally and is a large sturdy plant that may be trained into bowers and enclosures.
Uses Uses for regular glass fiber include mats and fabrics for thermal insulation, electrical insulation, sound insulation, high-strength fabrics or heat- and corrosion-resistant fabrics.
Medici Medici or broder medici is a fine, light-weight wool thread formerly manufactured by DMC Group.
the eggs) of the silk-worm, and these "seeds" being hatched in the spring, and the worms fed with mulberry leaves, they spun their silk, and went through their transformations.
The design of the new Lonja of Valencia was derived from a similar structure in the Lonja of Palma de Majorca, built by the architect Guillem Sagrera in 1448.
Sheets Self-assembly of silk at standing liquid-gas interphases of a solution tough and strong sheets.
Price Khazz is noted as one of the costlier cloths, and it was priced at 16 Tankahs/silver coins (equal to the monthly salary of a soldier in the 14th century).
This is done by allowing twist into a short section of the rolag, and then pulling back, without letting the rolag change position in your hands, until the yarn is the desired thickness.
Woolen (American English) or woollen (Commonwealth English) is a type of yarn made from carded wool.
The Uru people, an indigenous people predating the Inca civilisation, live on Lake Titicaca upon floating islands fashioned from this plant.
References External links ISO 2:1973 Textiles — Designation of the direction of twist in yarns and related products
Over the years, production dropped from 300,000 pounds of yarn at its peak, to 50,000 per week in 2007 and annual revenues dropped from $20 million in 1997 to around $5 million in 2007.
At its peak, it was a constituent of the FT 30 index of leading companies on the London Stock Exchange.
Applications Carbon fiber can have higher cost than other materials which has been one of the limiting factors of adoption.
Clients in the 1960s and 1970s included Burlington Industries and Mohawk Industries, and later military contracts.
The Bangarra Dance Theatre's 2005 production of CLAN incorporated traditional desert string games into one of their performances, creating intricate patterns as they thread themselves through long, elastic strings.
The thick black corded silk ("a kind of taffeta") was used for "scholastic gowns, and for hatbands and scarves".
Lotus weaving was invented by an ethnic Intha woman named Sa Oo in the village of Kyaingkhan in the early 1900s.
This grass is common and is a dominant grass in various prairie and grassland ecosystems in the Great Plains.
Sorona is DuPont de Nemours, Inc.'s brand of Triexta, a subclass of polytrimethylene terephthalate (PTT) named and commercialized in 2000.
Sokuri (Korean: 소쿠리, pronounced [so.kʰu.ɾi]) is a round, rimmed woven basket made of finely-split bamboo.
"The ikat velvet pieces which have been located so far and can be identified as Indian are similar in style to the mashru being woven in western India ...
In 2014, the University of Pennsylvania received a $10 million grant from the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences to study the impact of asbestos on the community of Ambler.
Name and discovery Riebeckite was first described in 1888 for an occurrence on Socotra Island, Aden Governorate, Yemen, and named for German explorer Emil Riebeck (1853–1885).
In the South Island, kiekie is more common in higher rainfall areas, reaching its southern limit near the Clarence River in the east and in Fiordland in the west.
They have white, waxy, fleshy spines along their backs, which become more prominent at later instars.
Additionally, the net must be placed at an appropriate height from the hard ground, so that a falling object could not make contact with the ground.
These silkworms live in the wild in forest trees belonging to Terminalia species and Shorea robusta, as well as other food plants such as jamun and oak found in South Asia, eating the leaves of the trees on which they live.
It was used as a sewing thread and for making lace, shoe laces, hat strings, ribbons, lining materials and in the cable industry.
As it falls, it leaves a thread attached by the meniscus to the nozzle as long as the viscosity is in the correct range for fiber formation.
For health reasons, it is recommended that existing fibre-cement products that are in good condition are left undisturbed and possibly encapsulated, to prevent fibre release.
History In 1881, the Keasbey and Mattison (K&M) Company began the manufacture of asbestos-containing material such as insulation and shingles in Ambler.
As the soil-based fungi can easily be carried on boots, clothing, or tools, the wilt spread to the Americas despite years of preventive efforts.
History 1871–1920 The business was founded in 1871 in Rochdale as Turner Brothers by John, Robert and Samuel Turner to manufacture cotton-cloth-based mechanical packing.
Discussions on land usage and wildlife reached the United States Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources in the Subcommittee on Public Lands and Reserved Water, and ultimately the ski resort was not built.
Examples include "Seabrook", named after plantation proprietor William Seabrook, and "Bleak Hall", named after the plantation John Townsend managed.
Thicker monofilaments are typically used for industrial purposes rather than fabric production or decoration.
Fibres created using this method may need encouragement to solidify by removing water from the fibre with chemicals such as (environmentally undesirable) methanol or acetone, and also may require later stretching of the fibre to achieve desirable properties.
When the diameter becomes smaller than 1 micron, the corresponding structures are called fullerene nanowhiskers or fullerene nanotubes.
1861/62 Ueber die Extraction des grauen Stares bei uneröffneter Kapsel durch den Skleralschnitt, Wiesbaden 1866.
Bratton was also a member of the NYAC team in the men's 4x50-yard freestyle relay which finished fourth in the Olympic final.
References Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs worldroots.com External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Gilbert Leigh
Edith was variously known as Miss Spencer-Kavanagh, Viola Spencer-Kavanagh, Viola Spencer, and Viola Kavanagh.
Later life In August 1969, Tidwell was involved in a domestic tragedy that led to the death of both himself and his estranged wife, Karen.
David Hey Bratton (October 1869 – December 3, 1904) was an American water polo player and competition swimmer who competed for the New York Athletic Club and represented the United States at the 1904 Summer Olympics in St.
References External links Profile at doha-2006.com Report at aljazeera.net Report at foxsports.com Report at ESPN.com
Spanish-American War World War I World War II Of the more than 500 major league players who served in the military in World War II, two were killed.
A player who does not bat in an innings is recorded in the scorecard as "absent"; Abdul Aziz is recorded as "absent" in the second innings, with a footnote explaining he was hurt but died.
Baracca had also transferred into squadron; on 3 May 1918, Nardini and Baracca jointly incinerated a Hansa-Brandenburg C.I south of Grave di Papadopoli.
According to Etienne Ugeux's son, this was done by Tshombe to remove Samalenge from his office for a few months because of his "incompetence".
Authorities announced that, while they would file no criminal charges against the party, the group did cause the avalanche.
Sergei Chalibashvili (Georgian: სერგო შალიბაშვილი; Russian: Сергей Шалибашвили; 22 June 1962 – 16 July 1983) was a Georgian competitive diver from the Soviet Union.
His maternal grandmother's father was John Allen Olton who owned the Harrow estate in Saint Philip, Barbados.
She was also known as Viola Spencer-Kavanagh, Viola Spencer, Viola Kavanagh, and perhaps as Viola Fleet and Elsa Spencer.
He began competitive swimming with the Knickerbocker Athletic Club in New York, but the club later folded.
A survey of 2008 Olympics teams, however, indicated that cycling was not even in the top six most injury-prone sports during competition that year.
Mieczysław Karłowicz at AllMusic Works by Mieczysław Karłowicz in National Digital Library of Poland (Polona)
Ngetich set his personal best of 2:12:10 hours when he finished second at the Houston Marathon in 2006.
Yulia Ryabchinskaya (21 January 1947 – 13 January 1973) was a canoeist from Ukraine and Olympic champion.
In 1994-95 he aggregated 1,034 runs in 10 matches at an average of 73.86 with 3 centuries and 4 half-centuries, which was a record number of runs in a Ranji Trophy season.
A UK manufacturer made the 'Welcom' Clem Sohn Bird-Man Glider, featuring "a red suited male figure with fold-out arms" and rubber wheels.
Because the salvage operation on Latham's first Antoinette resulted in severe damage to the aircraft, Levavasseur was forced to arrange for a second plane to be shipped from the factory in Puteaux, a Paris suburb, and it arrived on July 21.
He also wrote a number of songs for voice and piano, setting words by Kazimierz Przerwa-Tetmajer, Adam Asnyk, and others.
Presidential spokesperson Mac Maharaj mirrored this, saying that the nation had lost a hero and that Mulaudzi had flown the South African flag through his athletics.
Nicolae Berechet (April 16, 1915 – August 19, 1936) was a Romanian boxer who competed in the 1936 Summer Olympics.
He was a left-handed batsman who averaged 27.21 with the bat in 28 first-class games and 9.42 with the bat in 8 one-day domestic games.
After the match King played an audiotape, where the late father of the two brothers claimed that King was the more talented of the two of them.
The Violin Concerto was written for and dedicated to his former teacher Stanisław Barcewicz, who premiered the work under Karłowicz's baton in Berlin on 21 March 1903 with the Berlin Philharmonic.
McKeand had attended Sydney University in 1943–1948 and graduated with a Bachelor of Veterinary Science in 1949.
Lord Chesham was appointed to honorary colonel of the Buckinghamshire Imperial Yeomanry (Royal Bucks Hussars) on 19 March 1902.
His father was David Edzell Thomas Lindsay (1910–1968), a great-grandson of Charles Morgan, 1st Baron Tredegar.
Ryabchinskaya also won a gold in the K-4 500 m event at the 1971 ICF Canoe Sprint World Championships in Belgrade.
Louis summoned the Polish prelates and lords to Kassa (now Košice in Slovakia) in September 1379, persuading them to acknowledge Mary's right to succeed him in Poland.
The expedition set off from Lake Victoria in Uganda on 17 January, reaching Khartoum on 25 March and the Mediterranean Sea at Rosetta on 21 May.
The two queens were dragged to Krupa, and from there to Novigrad Castle on the coast of the Adriatic Sea.
References External links Tadeusz Zieliński at World Athletics Tadeusz Zieliński at Olympics.com Tadeusz Zieliński at the Polish Olympic Committee (archived) (in Polish) Tadeusz Zieliński at Olympedia
He was a guy who was as tough as possible, and took his last breath with his bat in his hand, like a warrior.
Injuries to both horse and rider as a result of competition in Eventing have occurred throughout history and around the world, and it is "a sport in which the vast majority of rider injuries are minor and insignificant, but in which the possibility of catastrophic results always exist".
Researchers claimed the deaths more likely stemmed from Bena Tshadi players wearing screw-in metal cleats, which conducted electricity, whereas Basanga wore molded cleats.
On attaining the desired altitude she found that she could not detach the parachute from the balloon.
He and another officer collided violently and Rich was flung to the ground, suffering a fractured skull.
Davie had just become affiliated with kickboxing promotion K-1 and became vice-president of K-1 USA.
She was diagnosed with poliomyelitis soon after arrival in London, and isolated in a local hospital ward, with access to an iron lung.
The highlight of the Kerma Museum are seven black granite statues uncovered in a ditch at the nearby site of Dukki Gel in 2003 by an archaeological team headed by Charles Bonnet.
The shape of the museum and headquarters is relatively simple, with T-shaped wings, each with an entrance.
It has a collection composed mainly of replicas of Egyptian pieces belonging to several different periods.
As a result the source of the pieces in the collection which did not appear in the 1837 catalogue is not certain.
Antiquities from the Rijksmuseum Amsterdam were transferred to Leiden with government support in 1825.
It was the Belize City Prison until 1993, when prisoners were then transferred to the Hattieville Prison In 2002, it was restored and renovated into a national museum.
In 2007, the Abu Dhabi Authority for Culture & Heritage assigned Cultural Innovations to create an arts centre in the Al Qattara Fort complex.
Upon its 100th anniversary in 1991, the museum received the European Council Museum Award, particularly for the renovations made to the lower floor halls in the main building and the new displays in the other buildings.
Building At that time, the possibility of building a museum as infrastructure to house a single collection did not exist, so the municipality determined that it would be located in the house that belonged to Apolinar Jaén, to adapt it to the requirements of a museum that would house this collection.
It is located in a subterranean building underneath the "Plaza de la Cultura" and is owned and curated by the Banco Central de Costa Rica.
One of the chief purposes of Tamayo and the museum was to collect the historic pieces, and to protect them from entering the illegal artifact traders market.
In 1885 his 'house museum' had grown to a total of 19 galleries, the first 14 of which had been designed by Vilhelm Dahlerup while Hack Kampmann had built the last four as well as conducted a redesign of the winter garden.
The oil agreement with the Standard Oil Company of California was signed by Abdullah Suleiman on behalf of Saudi Arabia and Lloyd N.
The grouped buildings are set within a park bordered by the Avenida de Berna (north), Avenida António Augusto de Aguiar (west), Rua Marquês de Sá da Bandeira (east) and the Centro de Arte Moderna (south).
The Bannu Archeological Project is a joint initiative focused on the archeological research efforts of a series of excavation sites across Bannu in Pakistan's Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province.
Buildings and facilities The Museo Popol Vuh is one of the most modern of all the museums in Guatemala in terms of physical facilities.
The Regional Museum and Art Gallery of Dilijan is a museum of local history and an art gallery in Dilijan, Armenia.
The museum also received items from the Punic-Mauri site of Tamuda, excavated by César Luis de Montalbán from 1921 onward.
During the interwar period, the collections grew considerably due to Belgian scientific expeditions around the world most notably in Apamea (Syria), in Egypt by the Egyptologist Jean Capart, and in Easter Island in 1936, or by excavations in archaeological sites across Belgium.
The entrance to the reception hall displays charred wooden beams of the roof, which collapsed onto the mosaic floor, destroyed in fierce fire at the time of destruction.
External links Official website in Dutch Official website in English Virtual tour of the Rijksmuseum van Oudheden provided by Google Arts & Culture Media related to Rijksmuseum van Oudheden at Wikimedia Commons
Overview The museum has permanent exhibits of local archaeological finds and on the traditional way of life historically in Fujairah in particular and the UAE in general.
2001 – present In 2001, the Institute launched a two-year Library Digitisation Pilot Program (LDPP).
The National Museum of Anthropology (Filipino: Pambansang Museo ng Antropolohiya), formerly known as the Museum of the Filipino People (Filipino: Museo ng Lahing Filipino), is a component museum of the National Museum of the Philippines which houses ethnological and archaeological exhibitions.
Although completed in 1938, it was hit by a bomb in 1940 and remained semi-derelict for 22 years, before reopening in 1962.
In the early years of the biographical register, it was hoped it could "provide an important record of the achievements of Aboriginal people, and be a source of pride for generations to come".
Thought to be the world's oldest shopping mall, the arcades in Trajan's Market are now believed by many to be administrative offices for Emperor Trajan.
Rifnik Hill (pronounced [ˈɾiːfnik]) is a hill with an archaeological open-air museum in eastern Slovenia.
This last museum has also developed a 'museum-without-walls' through a series of underwater wreck trails.
Casa del Alabado has: Eight exhibit rooms, one room for temporary exhibits, two rooms for workshops, a museum shop and two courtyards.
Like his contemporaries, he did not only value the remains of pre-Columbian cultures, but also considered the pieces from Tlatilco, Teotihuacán and Western Mexico as foundational works of Mexican aesthetics.
The museum's collections range from prehistory to the Islamic eras, connected through a Roman period evidenced by ancient marble and bronze sculptures found in Morocco.
With the acquisition of the Feoli collection, the Martin Wagner Museum gained about 480 new antiquities at once, mostly dating from between 530 and 480 BC and consisting primarily of Greek vases, but also Etruscan ones.
Today’s collection Since 1975, considerable donations have allowed the acquisition of over 15.000 unique items from the ancient Near East.
They divided their work into four main goals, namely archaeology, literature, history and ethnology.
The museum was officially opened on 17 March 2005 and is administered by staff of the Atlas Arqueológico de Guatemala.
In the following years, he served on the scientific committee in Philadelphia and took part in two further excavations in Nippur as well as one in Constantinople.
The facilities consist of a lobby, a patio and two arcades where a mural of the State of Durango with its different areas is shown; the Semi Desert, the Plains, the Valleys, the Sierra Madre Occidental and the Quebradas.
Initially founded as the López Memorial Museum, the institution was originally meant to be dedicated to López's parents, Benito and Presentacion López but shifted to maintaining a collection dedicated to Filipino heritage.
And finally, the third section called "Labyrinth" contains a photographic gallery dedicated to the Old Bridge; that is, to the damaged towers and to the phases of restoration.
The excavations during the building of the Al Qattara Arts centre uncovered a five metre long sequence of archaeological layers, from the last Islamic period to the Iron Age, 3000 years ago.
All images displayed on that exhibition were donated to the Wikimedia Commons and came to illustrate posts of important publications online linked to science.
The Museum of Archaeology (Kazakh: Археология мұражайы, Arxeologïya murajayı; Russian: Музей археологии, romanized: Muzey arkheologii) is an archaeological museum located in the Ğılım ordası complex of the National Academy of Sciences of Kazakhstan in Almaty, Kazakhstan.
Under its first curator, Renato Constantino, the museum acquired the Juan Luna painting, España y Filipinas which complemented López growing collection of Filipiniana books and maps.
Funding Due to the unofficial nature of the Genocide Prevention Group, the group does not receive Parliamentary funding.
Reform proposals In 2019, the Italian parliament passed a constitutional law that reduces the number of the deputies from 630 to 400.
Although the 1906 Constitution established a bicameral legislature, the Majles remained the only (unicameral) legislative chamber until the 1949 Constituent Assembly, in which the Senate of Iran was formed as the upper house, making the Majles the lower house.
The PDI-P, led by Megawati Sukarnoputri, had won the largest share of the vote with Golkar in second place.
Composition Presiding officer The municipal vice mayor is the ex officio presiding officer of the Sangguniang Bayan, although he has no voting privilege except in cases to break a deadlock.
Additionally, they are charged with the protection of members of Congress, officers of Congress, and their families throughout the entire United States, its territories and possessions, and the District of Columbia.
According to this act, “the Democratic Republic of Georgia equally guarantees to every citizen within her limits political rights irrespective of nationality, creed, social rank or sex".
Although the Derg used the new Shengo Hall across the street as its parliament, the post-communist government moved parliament back into this older building.
The other chamber of the National Congress (Congreso Nacional) is the Chamber of Senators (Cámara de Senadores).
Basically, the document explained how Colombia was going to be as an independent nation, in relation to the reasons that motivated the political union of Venezuela and New Granada.
On 31 October 1951 he addressed the assembly for the first time and called on it to frame the states constitution and to give a 'reasoned conclusion regarding accession'.
According to one view, all the people in the vicinity assembled there in order to reach agreements and to mete out justice.
The National Assembly is the lower house of the bicameral Parliament of Bhutan, and is responsible for enacting laws, representing the people, and overseeing the government.
Adrien Houngbédji was elected as President of the National Assembly on the night of 19–20 May 2015; as the candidate representing the opposition, he received 42 votes.
The palace includes two courtyards, the Old Palace Yard and New Palace Yard; the former dates to the time of Edward the Confessor, while the latter was built in 1097 on the orders of William II (Rufus).
Elections were held in Indonesia on 15 December 1955 to elect all 514 members of the Constitutional Assembly.
The Cortes of León or Decreta of León from year 1188 was a parliamentary body in the medieval Kingdom of León.
Under the conventions of the Westminster system, the government of the day and the prime minister must achieve and maintain the confidence of this House in order to gain and remain in power.
This would add 25 sitting days to the Parliamentary calendar to make up for the 22 sitting days lost due to Parliament being prorogued.
It also has concurrent jurisdiction with other law enforcement agencies, including the United States Park Police and the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia, in an area of approximately 200 blocks around the complex.
During the inquiry, Wajngarten denied that the federal government had made attacks on opponents through a parallel communications secretariat, popularly known as the hate cabinet; also denying that Councilman Carlos Bolsonaro (Republicans-RJ) had influence in the secretariat during his term.
The DpL saw its vote share rise 11.1% to 23.3% from 2021 and won six seats, an increase of four, the highest of any third party in Liechtenstein's history.
McCormack (1969) that the House of Representatives can only exclude duly elected members for only reasons in the Qualification of Members Clause.
This format was inherited from the United Kingdom and was a near-identical copy of the Parliament at Westminster.
Article 61 of the Italian Constitution maintains that elections for the Chamber of Deputies must take place within 70 days of the dissolution of the house, and that representatives must convene within 20 days of those elections.
When Christianity arrived, the Christian rites and especially baptism were central to the community.
It was elected by universal suffrage, excluding the armed forces and convicted criminals but after 1963 including women, who could both vote and be elected.
Procter, Evelyn."The Interpretation of Clause 3 in the Decrees of León," EHR 85 (1970 Merriman, Roger B.
Furthermore, a Senator cannot also serve as a civil servant, a member of the armed forces or police, a judge, a public prosecutor, a controller, or a current sitting member of the House of Assembly.
Shift to Tobruk On 4 August 2014, amid escalating violence in the capital during the Second Libyan Civil War, the House of Representatives relocated to the eastern city of Tobruk in the Butnan District following the occupation of Tripoli by armed Islamist groups.
A legislator directly on the cutting line is indifferent between voting "yea" and "nay" on the measure.
Its charter, sealed in the cornerstone during the ceremony, bore the names of the king, the metropolitan, and chief architect Jovan Ilkić.
This was because all resolutions passed by a given session of the Sejm formed a whole resolution, and, as such, was published as the annual "constituent act" of the Sejm, e.g.
The chairman of the assembly was Anthim I as chairman, Todor Ikonomov as deputy chairman, and Georgi Tishev as secretary.
The Constituent Assembly was dissolved on 26 January 1957, based on Mir Qasim resolution it adopted and ratified the constitution of Jammu and Kashmir on 17 November 1956.
Legacy Although the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2007 did not become law, its introduction set the stage for future discussions on accountability mechanisms within Congress.
At some time during the first two months of each session, the President customarily delivers the State of the Union Address, a speech in which he assesses the situation of the country and outlines his legislative proposals for the congressional session.
The voter can cast his vote in three different ways: Drawing a sign on the symbol of a list: in this case the vote extends to the candidate in the single-member constituency which is supported by that list.
The Group is currently chaired by Member of Parliament Ali Ehsassi and the vice-chairs are as follows: Garnett Genuis, MP (Conservative); Ruby Sahota, MP (Liberal); and Cheryl Hardcastle, MP (NDP).
On 13 March, President Michel Martelly issued a decree that split the Cerca La Source into two constituencies, and therefore increasing the number of deputies up to 119.
In March 2015 a new electoral decree stated that the new Chamber of Deputies have 118 members, and the Senate will retain the 30 members.
The aforesaid date, i.e., December 25th, shall be the anniversary of the Republic, due to its "political regeneration".
Based on the styles of the inscriptions, the assembly location was created in the 1010s, and the runestones are some decades older than the Jarlabanke runestone U 212 which tells of the creation of another assembly location.
The first elections in decades were held in September 2005, four years after the fall of the Taliban regime, still under international (mainly UN and NATO) supervision.
A further simplified technique involves piercing the crust repeatedly with the tines of a fork to produce small holes, allowing steam to escape and preventing the crust from bubbling up, but that does not work with soft doughs such as pâte sucrée.
Sponsorship In the past, the company has sponsored "bull riding events" and NASCAR races at Michigan International Speedway.
Awards In 1939, Angelo Motta was awarded Knight of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre, a prestigious Catholic chivalric order.
The dish consists of chicken pieces served with Portuguese sauce, which is likened to a mild yellow curry thickened with coconut milk.
In his 1872–1873 expedition to Silao, renowned British archaeologist Joseph David Beglar, talks about the sweet that dates back to King Vikramaditya and describes the sweetmeat.
It also has a cultural dimension and a Palestinian message to the world that they want their legitimate rights." The total diameter of the musakhan loaf was 4 meters, with a total weight of 1,350 kg.
"Si" Brown III Notes Business America is a United States government publication that analyzes and covers American business and economic issues.
Instead, they are simply warmed to between 3 and 5 °C (5 and 9 °F) above the coating's melting point.
Vitamin C (ascorbic acid) is the usual oxidizing agent; potassium bromate is still used in parts of the US but has been banned in California (effective 2027), the UK, and other countries.
At the age of thirteen, Eriksson moved back to Västerås, where he lived until his church confirmation.
The Belfast Operative Bakers' Union was a trade union representing bakery workers in Northern Ireland.
In 2006, the Betty Crocker catalog operation went out of business with all of its inventory on sale.
Other ingredients typically found in the basic breadcrumb mixture are: meat such as sausage, bacon or chouriço (Portuguese sausage), chili pepper, lemon juice, bell peppers, celery, onion, garlic, spices and herbs.
Preparation The clams, bacon, and other ingredients are cooked in various ways depending on the recipe, and then added with breading to half the clam shell and baked or broiled (grilled from above) to a golden brown.
Naming The dish is presumably named after Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington, but the precise origin of the name is unclear and the connection between them is unknown.
In one technique, the pie crust is lined with aluminium foil or parchment paper, then filled with pastry- or pie weights (sometimes called "baking beans") to ensure the crust retains its shape while baking.
The brand, which began as a small family operation, is based in Park City, Utah and ultimately expanded to market protein-enhanced pancake and waffle mixes, individual oatmeal, brownie mixes, frozen prepacked waffles, frozen prepacked pancakes, granola protein bars, and fruit syrups.
Williams, however, was not held personally liable for any of the damages, which totaled $1.1 million.
Top speakers, live demonstrations, merchandising ideas, and shelves of the hottest new products are just a taste of what the show offers.
New bakestones are seasoned by burning a mixture of lard or oil and salt, giving a non-stick surface and protecting against rust.
Apples were the only locally grown fruit in Germany that kept during the winter months, which made baked apples an economical choice for holiday desserts in the Christmas traditions of Germany or as a sweet main dish in cold weather.
Companies developed dedicated temperature control devices specifically for maintaining sourdough starters, addressing challenges that bakers had previously solved using improvised methods such as heating pads, warm ovens, or placement near appliances.
After their defeat in the Battle of Aljubarrota, the Castilian soldiers in flight were attacked and killed by the local inhabitants.
Blind baking a pie crust is necessary when it will be filled with an unbaked filling (such as with pudding or cream pies), in which case the crust must be fully baked.
In need of money, Eriksson, Olsdotter and Vestlund conspired to rob the Dunder couple on 11 December 1909.
In Lancashire and the West Riding of Yorkshire the spelling is bakstone and are primarily used to cook very thin, yeasted oatcakes or riddle bread.
Insects The pink stem borer (Sesamia inferens) and the finger millet shoot fly (Atherigona miliaceae) are considered as the most relevant insect pests in finger millet cultivation.
She went on to attend Meiji University of Integrative Medicine and graduated as a practitioner in acupuncture and moxibustion.
Methods and baking The techniques for making desem bread are similar to the techniques used for sourdough breads, but present unique challenges.
Alternatively, a couche (pronounced koosh), bakery couche, or proofing cloth, can be used on which to proof dough.
Many newly-homebound workers developed hobbies during the pandemic that they hadn't previously had time to pursue.
Rollatini is not an actual Italian word or dish; it is an Italian-American food based on the Italian dish involtini (e.g., involtini di melanzane).
See also List of eggplant dishes References External links Eggplant rollatini recipe from Everyday Italian, by Giada de Laurentiis
50-65°F, or 10-18°C) during the initial incubation period is important as higher temperatures may make the desem starter sour.
This yields a different texture from puff pastry, where rectangles of dough and fat are rolled and folded together in such a way that the result is a number of uniform sheets of pastry.
The acquisition made ConAgra the largest private-label packaged food business in the United States at that time.
Certification is a live, 8-hour, adjudicated test held in conjunction with the annual ICES Convention and Show.
Although it is undeniable that the story was a legend, Brites de Almeida came to be celebrated by the Portuguese in their songs and traditional stories and her deeds have remained as a symbol of Portugal's independence.
While getting a desem starter (a dough starter) going the first time can be challenging, keeping it going can be easier than sourdough starters (liquid starters).
The union became part of the Irish National Federal Union of Bakers in 1900, but it left again in 1905, with a slightly increased membership, which peaked at 693 in 1909.
Apples are the most widely grown fruit in Germany, used to prepare many dishes and beverages in German cuisine.
In 2003, Bob's Red Mill was a founding member of the Oldways Whole Grain Council, a food and nutrition nonprofit that promotes the use of whole grains.
The chunks of shortening keep the rolled particles of dough in the flaky pastry separate from each other, so that when the dough is baked they become flakes.
The 1923 edition of Le Répertoire de la Cuisine, a professional reference cookbook, mentions a "Wellington" recipe for beef: "Barded fillet browned in butter and in the oven, coated in poultry stuffing with dry duxelles added, placed in rolled-out puff pastry.
At the end of 2004, Phillips left Disney "to pursue [his] own interests." Since that time, Phillips has produced more content for his Brackenwood setting, including Prowlies at the River, which in 2006 was said to be in the Top 10 Most Influential Online Flash Shorts.
Plateau Sign Language, or Old Plateau Sign Language, is a poorly attested, extinct sign language historically used across the Columbian Plateau.
Such an origin is credited to two children — Ed "Squirrel" Clement and Lank McGimsey — who started making up words in the summer of 1890.
Social science In public health, he advocated establishing a medical administrative authority, with powers over epidemiology and veterinary medicine.
Langmaker is a website run by Jeffrey Henning that acts as a database of conlangs, neographies, and other resources related to conlanging and conworlding.
Pronouns Pronouns are changed as: *herself/himself/itself/themselves There is an old pronoun egui which is a personal, sex-neutral pronoun.
This was published without the characters in 1921, and the manuscript with characters was deposited in the library of Cambridge University.
He began not only discussing and commenting on conlangs but also cataloguing them in a comprehensive database, with overviews of the languages and links to their respective websites.
Punctuation Adlam punctuation is like Spanish in that there are initial and final forms of the question mark and exclamation mark, which are placed before and after the questioned or exclaimed clause or phrase.
Syllabic laterals and trills are represented with duplication of the ordinary lateral and trill graphemes.
Jovan Vladimir's Church in central Albania, but is preserved today at the National Archives of Albania in Tirana.
As a result, this has fostered a hierarchical student-teacher relationship so that the teacher can better manage the class.
She compared what she found with recordings of non-Christian rituals from Africa, Borneo, Indonesia and Japan.
Consequently, students do not properly learn how to express themselves and instead mistakenly believe that the study of English is the study of translation between English and Chinese.
Confusion of sense relations in the set includes the improper use of superonym for hyponym, hyponym for superonym, a whole word for a partial word, a partial word for a whole word, antonym, confusion of co-hyponyms, and misuse of near-synonyms.
palasokeri [p-ala/s-okeri] 'sugar lump' → salapokeri [s-ala/p-okeri] 'playing poker in secret' (*solapakeri would not mean anything).
This is in part due to differing preferences for names of Korea: North Korea refers to the whole of Korea as Chosŏn, while South Korea uses Hanguk.
Only one book has ever been published using the script which is A Malawi Tili Pati ("Malawians, where are we?") by Nolence Mwangwego himself in Chichewa in 2011.
Some Sindarin (and Noldorin) nouns of one syllable form the plural with an ending (usually -in), e.g.
Adjuvilo is a constructed language created in 1910 by Claudius Colas under the pseudonym of "Profesoro V.
The loudest phoneme in the language is a porcine snort, transcribed with a "double-dot wide O" (Ꙫ) at Speculative Grammarian.
Wolfe is best known for his Book of the New Sun series (four volumes, 1980–1983), the first part of his "Solar Cycle".
It is spoken by the Drushek, a species residing in the mountains of the fictional continent of Kryslan.
The Crow Tribe introduced Plains Sign Talk, which replaced Plateau Sign Language among the eastern nations that used it (the Coeur d’Alene, Sanpoil, Okanagan, Thompson, Lakes, Shuswap, and Colville), with western nations shifting instead to Chinook Jargon.
References External links Proposal for Encoding the Mwangwego Script, Unicode Article on designing a font for the script, Endangered Alphabets
It was presented to public in 1921 by the Berlin architect Tiemer as a pure literary language and should be used for automated translations.
Using gestures and objects, not asking questions in a language that the person might know, Pike would begin to analyze the language before the audience.
Also, Finnish inflectional and derivational morphology is extensive, thus applying a suffix from another word often produces a valid word.
Bliss, C.K., Semantography-Blissymbolics: A Simple System of 100 Logical Pictorial Symbols, Which can be Operated and Read Like 1+2=3 in All Languages...
After the takeover of the website, the owner regained control in 2022 making the site available through a Tor network endpoint until 2023.
In recent years, several poems originally written in Esperanto have been rendered into Transpiranto by Martin Weichert, and have been published in the Swedish Esperanto journal La Espero, and via the internet.
The syllabary did not distinguish all the syllables of the Vai language until the 1960s when the University of Liberia added distinctions by modifying certain glyphs with dots or extra strokes to cover all CV syllables in use.
It is reputedly based on the Bamum script, though the numerals show more resemblance to Bamum than the syllabograms do, and it does not appear to be a direct descendant.
In 1937 Pike went to the University of Michigan, where he worked for his doctorate in linguistics under Charles C.
The author presents a world-wide collection of case studies in visible language signage systems, including LoCoS.
Notes ^α Esperanto: Konstituo de nova tekstversio de la Helena romanverkisto Akilo Tacio ^β Also published as "A Tentative Grammar of Mycenaean Greek".
Images The Volapük Wikipedia holds no files locally, relying strictly on Wikimedia Commons for images, sound, and other media files.
Eugen Wüster Detlev Blanke Cyrill Robert Brosch Sabine Fiedler Humphrey Tonkin Federico Gobbo (it.wikipedia) Aleksandr Dulichenko William Auld John C.
Europanto ist uno melangio van de meer importantes europese linguas mit also eine poquito van andere europese linguas, sommige latinus, sommige old grec.
He studied Modern History at Worcester College, Oxford, before serving in the British Army during World War II.
Baumann was also a member of the Provisional National Council of Bavaria (the predecessor of the Landtag of Bavaria after the House of Wittelsbach was deposed in the German Revolution of 1918–1919) from 8 November 1918 to 4 January 1919.
Combined with "solar", the name reads as "the light of the sun", and demonstrates the artist's affinity for the universal source of light and energy.
This is bad for communicative learning because there is a lot of emphasis on written and reading proficiency instead which perpetuates the Mute English phenomenon.
Nonetheless, the film has received very positive reviews from critics, with many likening it to films by Andrei Tarkovsky.
The explosion was described as one of the largest bombing investigations that the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has investigated in Southern California since the Aliso Viejo package bombing that killed one person and seriously injured two others in 2018.
In September 1979, all charges against him were retracted, and he was made honorary president of Peking University.
The IPPF is working alongside the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS (UNAIDS) to promote preventions and treatments.
In 1938 she published a collection of her late husband's work under the title "Pensieri e Battaglie" ("Thoughts and Fights") in a volume which included an introduction by Emma Goldman.
Chairperson of the IFPA, Dr Andrew Rynne, was the first person to be prosecuted under this law, for selling condoms to a patient in 1983 (on a weekend, when the pharmacies were closed).
Prevalence of child marriage is an attributing factor to the fertility rates in India as women ages 20–24 reported that they had never used contraception prior to giving birth or within their first year of marriage.
The judges praised Blau for a daring, nonconformist style, that is at the same time connected to tradition and religious life.
On May 17, 2025, a car bombing occurred at a reproductive center in Palm Springs, California, United States, killing the perpetrator, and injuring four others.
Shechter frequently lectures on the college circuit, screening her films for audiences across the U.S, Canada, and internationally.
Criticism In 2018, Södersjukhuset, a hospital in Stockholm, Sweden, filed a complaint with the Medical Products Agency of Sweden after 37 women who had been using Natural Cycles as their primary method of contraception sought an abortion at the hospital after becoming pregnant unintentionally.
See also Birth control movement in the United States Demography Sustainable development Rockefeller family Mifepristone (RU-486) Human overpopulation References Further reading Memoirs, David Rockefeller, New York: Random House, 2002.
Workers' Birth Control Group was a British organisation which sought to enable working class women to access birth control information and treatment, safely and free of charge.
Lisovskii was forced to flee Russia in February 2022 by the Russian law enforcement forces, moving into exile in Indonesia.
The movement states that a decrease in the human population would prevent a significant amount of human-caused suffering.
Indian Health Services The Indian Health Services (IHS) is a government organization created in 1955 to help combat poor health and living conditions of Native Americans and Alaska Natives.
The policy was announced on 31 May 2021 at a meeting of the Politburo of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP), chaired by CCP General Secretary Xi Jinping, on population aging.
She became an expert in the treatment of infertility, treating both men and women and serving some of the royal families in the Middle East.
In March 1981, the Queensland Premier, Sir Joh Bjelke-Petersen, stated that: NSW has become an object lesson in so many ways for other States on what you must not do if you wish to maintain decent standards.
While it is logically possible to state that the absence of pleasures in Scenario B is bad (just as the absence of pains is good), he argues that we should not make this claim.
The Pearl Index is only accurate as a statistical estimation of per-year risk of pregnancy if the pregnancy rate in the study was very low.
According to a 2020 study by the NAFI Analytical Center, 46% of Russians aged 18 to 45 do not want to have children.
The etonogestrel implant, also called the contraceptive implant, or known by trade names Nexplanon or Implanon is one type of progestin-releasing birth control device implanted under the skin.
Since 2021, the organisation has set up and run local groups, delivered webinars and face to face presentations, written articles and campaigned locally and nationally to improve care for those who are AWOC.
References "When Parents Get Priority" Guardian July 5, 2004 "Baby, what Shall I Do?" Observer May 9, 2004 "The Rise of the 'Childfree'" BBC News March 31, 2006 External links Kidding Aside website
Depo-Provera was used on intellectually disabled Native American women before it gained clearance from the FDA in 1992.
the development of male-specific or unisex contraceptives." Past research efforts Many researchers have attempted to develop male contraceptive products over the last hundred years.
Despite the availability of highly effective contraceptives, in 2011, 45% of pregnancies were unintended.
Treating disease and douching Vaginal syringes were used to treat maladies such as leucorrhea or disease of the "pelvic viscera" by injecting water or water and chemicals into the vagina.
Following the introduction of the bill, Blackmon received death threats and subsequently stated that the bill was made in jest.
In May 1958, Sweden agreed to provide $80,000 to distribute contraceptives in two communities in Ceylon.
In 2019 AWWOC, lacking funds, passed its assets to The PRAMA Foundation who kept the issue and the website live.
References External links Martha Voegeli papers at the Sophia Smith Collection, Smith College Special Collections Correspondence with Indian government
Bundling: a courtship tradition in some Christian communities that was opposed by the religious right and has largely died out.
It also works to promote the childfree lifestyle as a legitimate and equal alternative to parenthood, and campaigns for equality of opportunity for childfree people in employment and with regard to UK tax legislation.
The purpose of using a chemical mixture was to interrupt the path of sperm and stop a woman from getting pregnant.
Short films #SlutWalkNYC (2013) In "#SlutWalkNYC", Shechter documents the controversial global, grassroots anti-rape movement on the day it filled the streets of New York City.
Further, current contraceptive use data show that more than a quarter of women worldwide already rely on male-controlled methods for contraception (such as condoms and vasectomy), and this figure could grow as more male contraceptive methods become available.
Factors influencing population control Population control can be influenced by a variety of factors.
Communicable diseases and contaminated resources like water and consequently food, plague developing countries.
After being educated at Auckland Grammar School, he attended Auckland University College, earning an LLB.
Contraceptive methods A 2014 report found that the pill remains the most widely used contraceptive method (27%) followed by injectables (12%), condoms (6%) and female sterilization (5%).
There is a slight risk for pregnancy and sexually transmitted infections (STIs) with certain non-penetrative sex acts.
the most fertile couples getting pregnant and dropping out of the study early, and couples becoming more skilled at using the method as time goes on), and in this way is superior to the Pearl Index.
This concession could at least in part be attributed to regional efforts by branches of the WBCG, who put pressure on local authorities.
Smartface Designer, the component of Smartface Platform enables visual development of mobile applications with drag-and-drop actions and interactive wizards.
History Nomad was launched in 2020 and is a business line of LotusFlare, Inc., a telecommunications software development company founded by former Facebook and Microsoft engineers.
History Route Mobile was started in Mumbai in May 2004 as a cloud communications platform provider for over the top (OTT) and mobile network operators (MNO).
The Maltese operation included a full core network that interconnected to a number of operators, in particular with Vodafone Malta in order to launch a number of MVNOs in Malta.
The benefit is that the user will have the best user-experience on every platform since it uses the correct/native UI elements instead of creating custom elements.
In 2016, Nazara tied up with Indian comics company Amar Chitra Katha to develop mobile games on Tinkle characters like Shikari Shambu.
The ZNAP mobile app was available for Apple iOS, Google Android, and BlackBerry OS supported devices.
“Such injunctions allow the court to restrain a party subject to its jurisdiction from proceeding in a foreign court in circumstances that are unjust.” E.
Around the same time, a compact charger gained popularity online for its cylindrical "lipstick" design.
For automation and application lifecycle management, it uses a workflow-based system where developers can configure steps with a visual interface and add steps from a component marketplace called integrations.
In 2008, Promate became an Apple MFi Certified brand with a dedicated R&D and Design center in Shenzhen-China.
Legal Parents and employers use legal monitoring software to check their teens' and staff's internet use.
That year, 49% of the company's revenue came from businesses using its software and 51% from consumers making in-app purchases.
In September 2010, the company moved their headquarters north to Fountain Valley, California - where in June 2011, they became an over-the-counter (finance) quoted company under the stock symbol: MEDL.
Medio is built on a cloud-based Hadoop platform and is designed to interpret big data for mobile enterprise.
It partnered with companies including Idea Cellular, Lanka Bell, and Arab Financials Services for providing messaging services in India, Sri Lanka, Middle East and North Africa region.
The service includes coverage in more than 150 countries, prepaid pricing models, and digital activation through the company’s online platform.
The core component of the Titanium software ecosystem is the Apache-licensed software development kit, Titanium SDK.
Because of this the court granted an injunction against Samsung and ordered Samsung to cease infringement.
More recently, the company has been delivering services to Enterprises, Manufacturers and other MVNEs (SURFnet, and has announced partnerships with other companies for the use of eSIM in IoT initiatives (IDEMIA, Oracle).
Later that month, Unity's board rejected the offer and committed to complete its acquisition of ironSource.
PriceCheck - A mobile data collection application that allows reps to collect in-store pricing and validate it with a two-stage data validation process.
Security researcher Robert Xiao, who discovered the vulnerability, stated that the LocationSmart API failed to implement basic checks and that the vulnerability could have been found by anyone with little effort.
History Flurry was launched in 2005 by entrepreneurs Sean Byrnes, Dan Scholnick, and Gabriel Vanrenen.
The company raised $80 million in Series E funding, with a valuation of $850 million, and opened an office in Singapore.
On March 30, 2017, the company announced a new agreement to sell FL Mobile for RMB 4 billion along with Beijing Showself for RMB 1.23 million to Tongfang Investment Fund Series SPC, an affiliate of Tsinghua Tongfang.
A study, presented at the USENIX Security Symposium, found that traffic from Holafly eSIMs was sometimes routed through Chinese and other undisclosed networks.
A 2012 investigation by Vulnerability Lab found that Mobile Spy contained multiple security flaws that allowed attackers to inject malicious code via SMS and potentially hijack a user’s monitoring session.
During the next couple of years, the company focused on the expansion of its SMS messaging service, and created and patented the software MailText.
Bugsense expanded to supporting more than 30000 developers and companies, including Samsung, SoundCloud, and Trulia and has a market share of 3.43% of all apps.
The agreement provided for the acquisition of DDR's proprietary location-based mobile marketing solution called ValuText and the opportunity for MobileBits to distribute Samy through 450 shopping centers.
The Flurry analytics and advertising platform really started to take off with the advent of the iPhone, with its own App Store, and soon after Flurry became the de facto analytics platform for mobile apps.
It was designed to compete with dictionary-based predictive systems such as T9 and iTap which were commonly used with mobile phones with 12-key telephone keypads.
("Showself") to provide entertainment and dating platforms on mobile internet, and established Beijing NQ Mobile Co., Ltd.
Airship (software company), formerly Urban Airship, is a San Francisco, California-based company founded in Portland, Oregon, that offers mobile customer experience and messaging services.
In addition, roaming subscribers in South Sudan were able to use the Zain- South Sudan network at a time when other networks were facing difficulties in accommodating roaming subscribers.
After closing the Series-A funding in January 2008, the company soon changed its name to SpiderCloud Wireless.
Apteligent is widely adopted, with over 9 billion monthly app launches and integration into 23 million apps, including the popular title, Pokémon Go.
It subsequently introduced an in-app VPN and optional virtual numbers as optional additional services for cross-border use.
Its Hong Kong office had failed to pay its employees wages on time and to its ex-employees within 7 days, with some employees having to seek help from the Labor Department.
In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, Ibotta partnered with CPG brands in their “Here to Help” campaign and together committed over $10 million in cash back to American consumers.
Illegal Using cell phones for spying has also increased due to multiplication of smart phones and compromising one's information is very possible with spy apps.
mSpot became a wholly owned, independently operated subsidiary of Samsung Electronics, in May 2012: in July, 2013, mSpot employees became the Music Team for Samsung's Media Solutions Center.
Soon after, the company grew from a handful of people to a full staff of designers, developers, engineers, marketers, architects, and producers.
Awards and honors He is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada (Science Academy) and the recipient of the American Association for the Advancement of Science Award for Public Understanding of Science and Technology in 2000.
Calgary Energy Centre Leach reviews articles posted on line by the "pro-energy corporation", the Calgary-based Canadian Energy Centre, which is funded by the government of Alberta.
Siri Nippita, a gynecologist at NYU Langone Medical Center and the chief of the family planning division as well as the director of Reproductive Choice at Bellevue Hospital.
Loan Programs Office Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm appointed Shah to direct the United States Department of Energy's Loan Programs Office (LPO) in March 2021.
Copenhagen Consensus Bjørn Lomborg chose Tol to participate in his "Copenhagen Consensus" project in 2008.
Vaclav Smil (Czech: [ˈvaːtslaf ˈsmɪl]; born December 9, 1943) is a Czech-Canadian scientist and policy analyst.
Harry Gerard Broadman (born December 23, 1954, in New York City) is an international investment executive and global business strategist; an authority on trade, antitrust, corporate governance, sustainability, and innovation; and a non-executive corporate director.
Education Ph.D.: University of Grenoble, Department of Economics / Institute of Energy Economics and Policy, 1987.
From 2006 to 2008, he was chief energy economist at Lehman Brothers, where he argued the oil price rises of 2007 and 2008 were an unsustainable bubble.
In September 2007 he was appointed ICREA Research Professor at Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona (UAB), and honorary professor of Environmental and Resource Economics at VU.
He obtained his PhD from UC Berkeley in management science in 1976 and has been at Stanford since 1977.
Among other works, he is an editor of the book "Avoiding Dangerous Climate Change" and co-author (with Edwin Mansfield) of "Microeconomics| Microeconomics: Theory and Applications".
He has been a senior fellow of SIEPR since 1998 and a senior fellow by courtesy at the Hoover Institution from 2001 until his retirement.
David William Pearce OBE (11 October 1941 – 8 September 2005) was Emeritus Professor at the Department of Economics at University College London and a pioneer of environmental economics.
The Netherland auction that took place 3 months later raised 1/4 of the revenue per head of population, and the difference has been attributed to the auction design.
After earning a llicenciatura in economics from the Autonomous University of Barcelona in 2006, she went to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for graduate study, and completed a Ph.D.
Under his leadership, association agreements increased with major producers of energy, especially with countries outside the OECD in the Global South, such as India and China.
Tiedemann, 2008, "The neighbor effect: simulating dynamics in consumer preferences for new vehicle technologies," Ecological Economics.
In practice, it serves as the NSC's chief of staff responsible for coordination, budget and management of the National Security Council.
He was professor at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology and Dubna State University (Moscow region, Dubna city, Russia).
His books examine economic, environmental and geopolitical pressures on the transformation of the global energy sector.
He acknowledges that this level of taxation is too low to significantly discourage fossil fuel use but argues it would help to stimulate the development of fuel-saving technology and improve the competitiveness of renewable energy sources.
While there he played "a leading role in helping to shape the group's advocacy on domestic and international climate policy." As an expert on environmental policy, Keohane testified before various committees of the United States House of Representatives.
He was a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Energy and a member of the International Association for Energy Economics.
From 1979 to 1981, Morse served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Energy Policy.
Three months later, in July 2004, Currie authored a Goldman Sachs report that forecasted rising long-term oil prices, arguing that the 'global oil industry is at capacity'.
Trump, was filed on January 30 and on February 3 successfully earned a temporary restraining order to forbid federal enforcement of some of the ban's provisions.
He created an important tradition of understanding energy by studying it from the bottom up, which means by end user." Schipper broke new ground by analyzing energy data sector by sector and end-use by end-use in various countries and comparing them.
He also holds a Master of Science in Management of Technology from the MIT Sloan School of Management.
Research work Stephen Thomas is professor at the University of Greenwich Business School, and has been a researcher in the area of energy policy for over twenty-five years.
At Western Washington University, he served as dean of the College of Business and Economics from 2013 to 2016 before gaining his professorship.
From 2001 to 2006, he was Director of Research and Acting Secretary General at the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
He served as an expert witness at the Department of Energy's hearings on the National Energy Strategy and testified at Congressional hearings on priorities in global climate change research.
Earlier in his career, his theoretical research on housing market dynamics and on the economics of depletable natural resources helped establish analytical frameworks that influenced subsequent scholarship.
at Queens University, Leach was appointed as an assistant professor at HEC Montreal, a post he held for three years.
When a society confronts a "problem," such as a shortage of energy, or difficulty in gaining access to it, it tends to create new layers of bureaucracy, infrastructure, or social class to address the challenge.
With uncertainty, firms have options to make capital investments, and much of a firm's value can be attributed to the value of these options, even though many of them may never be exercised.
After the broadcast, LaRouche members picketed NBC's office carrying signs saying "Lynch Pat Lynch," and the NBC switchboard said it received a death threat against her.
With other administrators and mayors of Regione del Veneto Lorenzoni is working to a civic network named Vale.
Saddler was the author of a book on Australian energy policy, Energy in Australia, and over 50 scientific papers, monographs and articles on energy technology and environmental policy, and is recognised as one of Australia's leading experts in this field.
Having lived his early life in the Midlands where he attended the independent King Edward's School, Birmingham, Klemperer went on to gain an engineering degree from Cambridge University, and an MBA and an economics PhD from Stanford University.
The organization, which historically had been heavily in favor of the fossil fuel industry, has expanded its scope to include sustainable energy and more members.
While on leave from Georgetown in 2010–11, he served as a Senior Economist at the White House Council of Economic Advisers.
Another branch, represented by Robert Pindyck, holds that integrated assessment models cannot capture the complexity of the climate-economy nexus.
People pronouncing solemn oaths and bloodlines as a sign of reconciliation, forgiving each other and held on to this chain.
You might also look for her companion, a large Chinese rabbit, who is easy to spot since he is only standing on his hind feet in the shade of a cinnamon tree.
During the ceremony the priests asked for unity, peace and the end of discrimination and racism, with the hope that the start of a new cycle will be a "new dawn".
As compared to an account offered by Gabriel Acquin—one of the two Maliseet sources that Leland had at the time he wrote his rendition of the Gluskap-Malsumis story—Leland's makes a concerted effort to paint Malsumis as explicitly malicious.
Lietuvēns's cross In the fight against lietuvēns the most important role is played by so-called lietuvēns’ cross (Latvian: lietuvēna krusts) that can be two types - simple and double.
The Trialeti-Vanadzor culture is widely regarded as one of the strongest archaeological candidates for the Proto-Armenian horizon.
While he and Gluskab both had the power to do good, Malsumis used his power for evil and trickery, like putting thorns on plants.
It is thought to be a soul of a killed (strangled, drowned, hanged) person and attacks both people and domestic animals.
Consequently, Xaskar and Duzgın might be personifications of Armenian Anahita and Mithra in this mountainous region, Tunceli.
From the analysis of Thorkild Jacobsen, Dale Launderville has suggested the myth provides evidence that Sumerian society prohibited premarital sex in a discussion entitled "Channeling the Sex Drive Toward the Creation of Community".
It was also the name of first rulers of the Second Turkic Khaganate, Ilterish Qaghan, and the Uyghur Khaganate, Kutlug I Bilge Khagan.
She asks his name and lineage and informs him that five companies of dead men crossed the bridge the previous day, yet it trembles no more beneath their passage than under his alone, and he does not resemble the dead.
Since "Elbis" shares some devilish characteristics, he became identified with Iblis under Islamic influences.
But in the Bronze Age, when men became violent and greedy, she fled to the stars, where she appears as the constellation Virgo, holding the scales of Justice, or Libra.
Safa (Ossetian: Сафа, from the Greek: Σάββας - "Sabbas the Sanctified") in Ossetian mythology God of the hearth chain.
References Other sources Bellows, Henry Adams (1923) The Poetic Edda (American-Scandinavian Foundation) Orchard, Andy (1997) Dictionary of Norse Myth and Legend (Cassell) ISBN 0-304-34520-2 Simek, Rudolf (2007) translated by Angela Hall Dictionary of Northern Mythology (D.S.
According to Latvian folk epics and omens, lietuvēns is the soul of a murdered (strangled, drowned or hanged) person cursed to live in this world as long as it has been meant to live.
The Witch (2015): Thomasin signs her name in the Devil's book so that she can join a murderous coven of witches.
She is described as a tall, skinny old woman, with long dirty nails in dried toes, white tangled hair, a long nose, staring red eyes, and greenish teeth on her evil laugh.
He conceived this idea over several years in the early to mid-1970s whilst using psilocybin mushrooms and DMT.
Description In Belarusian language Chut has masculine grammatical gender, so in most cases Chut is described as a male.
See also Aos Sí Beast of Bodmin Cù-sìth Cath Palug Grimalkin Kellas cat List of fictional cats Phantom cat "The Black Cat" (short story) == References ==
In stanza 51, Vafþrúðnir states that, after Surtr's flames have been sated, Odin's sons Víðarr and Váli will live in the temples of the gods, and that Thor's sons Móði and Magni will possess the hammer Mjolnir.
Angitia was a goddess among the Marsi, the Paeligni and other Oscan-Umbrian peoples of central Italy.
Women who die an unnatural death, such as in childbirth or by suicide, and prostitutes may become chedipes.
Barrie's further works about Peter Pan depict early childhood as a time of pre-civilised naturalness and happiness, which is destroyed by the subsequent process of education.
At the end of the ballad, though the man and his family die, their town is never again touched by plague.
It consists of eight and a half folios, written in two columns in a fine late thirteenth-century hand.
The cause of Copper's victory is that Copper has been demonstrated to be useful for all sorts of purposes, whereas Silver is merely for show or decoration.
Aeschylus describing the nightingale as Tereus' wife and 'hawk-chased' impplies an early version where Tereus became a hawk instead of hoopoe, also supported by Hyginus, which fits the story as hawks are large birds of prey that attack nightingales.
As the plague wreaked havoc on the town, he managed to survive the plague, saved by virtue of his kindness A popular ballad told the tale of a man who killed the plague maiden using a sword inscribed with the names of Jesus and the Virgin Mary and stole her handkerchief.
Ali Shia Muslims believe that the name of Ali Ibne-Abi Talib (Muhammad's son in law) is written on the Moon.
The trunk of the tree could also be represented by an upright caiman, whose skin evokes the tree's spiny trunk.
Finally, the thirteenth episode was dropped and they made the twelfth episode 10 minutes longer (52 minutes).
On 10 December 861 AD, Abbasid caliph al-Mutawakkil, unable or unwilling to leave Baghdad, ordered the tree be felled and transported to his capital, so that carpenters might reassemble it for him.
Claudius Aelianus, On the Characteristics of Animals, translated by Alwyn Faber Scholfield (1884–1969), from Aelian, Characteristics of Animals, published in three volumes by Harvard/Heinemann, Loeb Classical Library, 1958.
There is a rogue Master, Leeland, wanting to collect all the Automata under one Master because he believes they are evil and create strife when held individually.
And Glooskap said, "I will be born as others are." But the evil Malsumsis thought himself too great to be brought forth in such a manner, and declared that he would burst through his mother's side.
Encyclopædia Britannica and The Encyclopedia of Witches, Witchcraft and Wicca ignore completely Hansen's theory and list Sprenger and Kramer as co-authors.
Some modern scholars see his relationship with Cú Chulainn, and his death, as having homoerotic undertones.
However, the version known as "Zoya's Standing" from 1956 has become the most widely recognized and enduring adaptation of this narrative.
Drioma walks the evening beneath the windows, and when darkness falls, enters the house through cracks and fissures.
[...] In the midst of these evils, we Inquisitors, Jacobus Sprenger together with the very dear associate [Institoris] delegated by the Apostolic See for the extermination of so destructive a heresy [...] we will bring everything to the desired conclusion.
Keibu Keioiba In the Meitei mythology and folklore, Keibu Keioiba (Meitei: ꯀꯩꯕꯨ ꯀꯩꯑꯣꯏꯕ), also known as Kabui Keioiba (Meitei: ꯀꯕꯨꯏ ꯀꯩꯑꯣꯏꯕ), is a mythical creature with the head of a tiger and the body of a human.
A Chinese merchant who refused to be converted to the Christian faith while passing in front of the monastery of Guadalupe was almost caught by the devil disguised as a caiman to devour and bring to hell.
Lumachelles may or may not contain complete bivalves including the shell, or alternatively only internal molds.
Japanese natural and synthetic waterstones The Japanese traditionally use natural sharpening stones (referred to as tennen toishi) wetted with water, as using oil on such a stone reduces its effectiveness.
Sarral (Old Catalan for 'the Royal [Domain]'; Catalan pronunciation: [səˈral]) is a municipality and small town in the comarca of Conca de Barberà in the province of Tarragona in Catalonia, Spain.
The 25-acre (10 ha) site of the former Chellaston Brickworks is now a designated Local Nature Reserve.
Grotefend had also proposed a reading of the cuneiform inscriptions on the Caylus vase since 1805, translating it quite accurately as "Xerxes rex fortis" ("Xerxes, the Strong King", although it is actually "Xerxes, the Great King").
Geologists had recognized by 1941 that some rocks show the macroscopic characteristics of quartzite, even though they have not undergone metamorphism at high pressure and temperature.
Jasper conglomerate is an informal term for a very distinctive Paleoproterozoic quartz and jasper pebble conglomerate that occurs within the middle part of the Lorrain Formation of the Cobalt Group of the Huronian Supergroup.
Frilli and his gallery were well known in Europe, the United States and Australia, as he took part in several world's fair exhibitions.
It heads north for 32 kilometres to meet the north-western terminus of the R340 and become the Prince Alfred's Pass.
Liminal, or boundary, stele were used to mark size and location of fields and the country's borders.
Itacolumite is a naturally occurring sandstone that is flexible when cut into relatively thin slabs.
Occupants of the Tomb The exact location of the tomb is currently unknown as, once all materials from the chamber had been removed, it was filled in and abandoned.
Created by Marv Wolfman and Chuck Patton, she first appeared in Tales of the Teen Titans #56 (August 1985).
Greywacke sandstones are a heterogeneous mixture of lithic fragments and angular grains of quartz and feldspar or grains surrounded by a fine-grained clay matrix.
Flux growth (solution process) The flux growth process was the first process able to synthesize emerald.
The Romans made extensive use of rubble masonry, calling it opus caementicium, after the name (caementicium) given to the filling between two revetments.
Oliphant wanted to create an event that was accessible to all people, regardless of age and ability, and would be free to all.
It is found almost exclusively in the south-eastern end of the Quantock Hills near Cockercombe, Somerset, England, from where it has been quarried for centuries.
During or after sedimentation the shells or carapaces may be dissolved or eroded away, producing internal molds.
Developed first by the Gell family, and then by The Hopton-Wood Stone Firms Ltd, it was called "England’s premier decorative stone", and described as "remarkably and exceptionally pure limestone, almost identical to marble" with impurities at an "extraordinarily low figure of 0.02%".
Posta Sandstone (German: Postaer Sandstein), also called Wehlen Sandstone (Wehlener Sandstein), only occurs on the eastern banks of the River Elbe at Alte Poste, near Herrenleithe, Wehlen, Zeichen and Posta.
There were many objects from the Isis Tomb that were clearly imported from Egypt or elsewhere in the Middle East, which indicates trade and cultural exchange between Etruscans and Civilizations of the eastern Mediterranean.
It is a "convenience" label rather than a geological term, since at least 46 different rock types are represented.
Near the surface, Cottonwood Limestone is a useful aquifer, while deeper subsurface Cottonwood Limestone is associated with oil and gas producing formations.
Saint-Martin in Extrait d'un mémoire relatif aux antiques inscriptions de Persépolis lu à l'Académie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres.
Due to its softness it was favoured during the Late Second Temple Period for carving box-shaped ossuaries for secondary burials as well as for producing stone vessels, using a procedure similar to the potter's wheel.
However, after Guan refuses Kuvira's request to surrender and refuses to fight her, Kuvira assaults Guan before she is electrocuted into unconsciousness by Asami, who resents Kuvira for killing her father.
Contemporary tesserae Vitreous glass These are manufactured glass tiles made to a uniform shape and size.
For breaking that oath, he ended up in the Empire's gladiator training school, the Maw, where he fought alongside such other warriors as Miek, No-Name the Brood, Korg, and the Hulk.
The goal of the competition is to lift each stone sequentially from smallest to largest and place them on top of 4 ft 4 in (52 in) whisky barrels as quickly as possible.
The highest elevation is about 631 metres (2,070 ft) above sea level at the southwestern end of the hill, overlooking the Linth and Obersee area, which are at around 406 metres (1,332 ft) above sea level.
Theia comes into conflict with the Teen Titans and is killed in the ensuing battle, with Kole being freed.
Cotham Marble or Landscape Marble is a variety of Rhaetian (uppermost Triassic) stromatolitic limestone from the Penarth Group, found in south Wales and southwestern England in the area around Bristol, possibly extending to the south coast in east Devon.
Their irregular finish makes them a wonderful reflector of light and this material is best used working straight into cement.
Modern Day Since the closure of Middleton Mine and Hopton Quarry, the Stone's reputation as a premier decorative mark has maintained.
In Mysticons, the process is called "turn to bone" which is a strong spell that was cast on Queen Goodfey and King Darius in the premiere of the show ("Sisters In Arms"), which was eventually undone months later by the caster himself at the end of the penultimate episode "Fear the Spectral Hand").
Quarrying and use In 2008, Posta Sandstone was being won in two quarries in the Wesenitz valley and it was being used for solid window and door frames, façade slabs, sculptor's blocks and high-profile masonry work.
The bluestones at Stonehenge were first used there during the third phase of construction at Stonehenge around 2300 BC.
It is also known as Überquader ("Over Ashlar") and has the smallest deposit of all the Elbe sandstones.
It may form an outer surface of a wall, or fill the core of a wall which is faced with unit masonry such as brick or ashlar.
He was chosen to be the personal guard of the Red King and uphold an alliance between the Shadows and the Empire.
Following the revelation that Miek had allowed the destruction of Sakaar, the remaining Warbound surrender to S.H.I.E.L.D.
There he embarked on a plan to unite all of the former Soviet Union by transforming its people into a race of zombie-like radioactive beings living under a communal mind.
The normal ear canal is approximately 7mm in diameter and has a volume of approximately 0.8ml (approximately one-sixth of a teaspoon).
Education Haake studied physics and the University of Leeds, and went on to do a PhD at Aston University in Birmingham where he was sponsored by The Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews.
This has become the most prominent park effect, known as park factors (PF), which indicate the difference between a team's offense and defense in home and road games.
The Las Vegas Raiders, despite moving from Oakland, California, to Las Vegas in 2020 kept their training camp at the Napa Valley Marriott and Redwood Middle School in Napa, California, which they have used for training camp since 1996.
Much research in sports psychology and sports medicine is motivated by the needs of elite rather than mass athletes.
The coach is not a passive perceiver of information, and as such his or her perception of events is selective and constructive, not simply a copying process.
Osaka University of Health and Sport Sciences (大阪体育大学, Ōsaka taiiku daigaku) is a private university in the town of Kumatori in Osaka Prefecture, Japan.
In 2017, PlaySight unveiled its SmartField technology for soccer and also released its SmartTracker technology - an autonomous 4K camera that follows all on-court action automatically.
This disorder can develop when marathon runners or endurance event athletes drink more fluid, usually water or sports drinks, than their kidneys can excrete.
Efforts to preserve ethnosport Today, cultural diversity of sport brings an institutional standard of promotion and development to traditional physical activities.
Uses Although Shoe Goo can be used on rubber, wood, glass, concrete and metal, it is most commonly used as a pliable adhesive for separated shoe components, as a filler on worn shoe soles, and as a sealer to repair waterproof fabrics and footwear.
The a-vO2 diff is usually measured in millilitres of oxygen per 100 millilitres of blood (mL/100 mL).
This latter measurement has been criticized by Eric Liknes, Sarah Scott, and David Swanson, who say that mass-specific metabolic rates are inconsistent seasonally.
Rating methods Permutation of standings Several methods offer some permutation of traditional standings.
This excess water can severely dilute the level of sodium in the blood needed for organs, especially the brain, to function properly.
Various studies suggest that the resting metabolic rate of trained muscle is around 55 kJ/kg per day; it then follows that even a substantial increase in muscle mass — say 5 kg — would make only a minor impact on BMR.
The Kharkiv State Academy of Physical Culture is a Ukrainian Academy of university accreditation level in Kharkiv.
It consists primarily of general preparatory and some specialized conditioning exercises to work all the major muscles and joints.
In 2002, a Cleveland Browns exhibition game ended due to lightning near Cleveland Browns Stadium, and severe storms have been known to disrupt training camps.
Because of the growth and development of sports science as an academic discipline, a number of scientists began using and extending the simple hand notation techniques that had served for decades.
Basic studies on both departments last 3 years, master's studies taking 2 years and doctoral studies 3 years.
Biology Molecular biology L-Lactic acid is the primary endogenous agonist of hydroxycarboxylic acid receptor 1 (HCA1), a Gi/o-coupled G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR).
At the end of the season he signed, along with the team's manager George Wakeling, for Bromley where he was immediately put on a contract.
The Matthew effect again plays a role, as the skills learned early in education compound over time, increasing the advantage, with older students becoming more likely to take up leadership roles.
After coaching the taekwondo team of Üsküdar district from 1990 to 1992, Tennur Yerlisu became coach of the Turkey women's taekwondo national team in 1992-93, and again in 2005.
Some academic work is published in forums like the MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference, others in traditional statistics, mathematics, psychology, and computer science journals.
Her two siblings, sister Gülnur and brother Taner Bekir, are both formerly successful national taekwondo practitioners at World and European level.
Production of racemic lactic acid consisting of a 1:1 mixture of D and L stereoisomers, or of mixtures with up to 99.9% L-lactic acid, is possible by microbial fermentation.
In 1961, Guttmann founded the International Medical Society of Paraplegia, now the International Spinal Cord Society (ISCoS); he was the inaugural president of the society, a position that he held until 1970.
Goodman made his Millwall debut on 26 December as a substitute at The Old Den against Leicester City, and it wasn't long before he was a regular member of the first team.
It is one of the three sports schools in Kerala under the Directorate of Sports & Youth Affairs, alongside the Sports Division in Thrissur and the Sports School in Kannur.
On 18 September 2010, Vietnamese weightlifter Hoàng Anh Tuấn, silver medalist in 2008 Summer Olympics was handed a four-year ban, later reduced to two years, for testing positive with the substance.
GPP helps prevent imbalances and boredom with both specific and non-specific exercises by conditioning the body to work.
"Changing policy priorities for sport in England: the emergence of elite sport development as a key policy concern".
The sea level World Record was broken four times as he sat in the track centre waiting for his start.
Now, along with Olympic freestyle wrestling, Greco-Roman wrestling, and Women's freestyle wrestling FILA develops Grappling, Pankration, Beach wrestling, and many other traditional wrestling styles.
The Vassil Levski National Sports Academy (Bulgarian: Национална Спортна Академия "Васил Левски"), commonly referred to as the NSA, is Bulgaria's premiere higher education institution specializing in teaching physical education.
Amphetamine's therapeutic mode of action in narcolepsy primarily involves increasing monoamine neurotransmitter activity in the ARAS.
Studies have shown that running economy improves considerably when training/sleeping at high altitudes and competing near sea level.
Knuckle Stress fractures Collateral ligament injuries Shoulder injuries Shoulder related injuries include rotator cuff tear, strain or tendinitis, biceps tendinitis and SLAP lesion.
A 2015 PLoS One analysis explicitly questioned the sensitivity of CPET change-scores in fatiguing illness.
The viscosity of normal plasma varies with temperature in the same way as does that of its solvent water; a 3 °C change in temperature in the physiological range (36.5 °C to 39.5 °C)reduces plasma viscosity by about 10%.
By analogy, ethnocultural styles of competitions cannot become sports if their origin country is not included in the global world of sport.
MPIs are set up as an indicator of a football player's performance compared to a standard of a specific position on the field.
23 The discovery of a 5th-century Coptic monastic building was announced at the Al Qalaye site in the Beheira Governorate, Egypt.
1916) 8 July: Arthur Evans, English archaeologist best known for discovering the palace of Knossos on Crete (d.
Antonio García Cubas makes first scholarly description of the ruins of the Toltec capital in Tula, Hidalgo, Mexico.
Large-scale excavation of Buckton Castle in the north west of England begins under the direction of Brian Grimsditch of the University of Manchester Archaeology Unit.
1908) Deaths March 31 - Charles "Hindoo" Stuart, Anglo-Irish British East India Company officer and collector of Hindu antiquities (b.
Cline, American Classical archaeologist Timothy Taylor, English archaeologist Deaths February 20 - Leonard Woolley, English archaeologist (b.
Publications Narrative of the Operations and Recent Discoveries Within the Pyramids, Temples, Tombs, and Excavations in Egypt and Nubia by Giovanni Battista Belzoni.
Publications 1753: Robert Wood's The ruins of Palmyra; otherwise Tedmor in the desart published in English and French.
Finds April 13 – The Winged Victory of Samothrace (a representation of Nike) is found in excavations on the Greek island of Samothrace by Charles Champoiseau.
The Kharosti scrolls, the oldest collection of Buddhist manuscripts in the world, are radiocarbon-dated by the Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation (ANSTO).
Events December 14 - inaugural meeting of the London and Middlesex Archaeological Society Publications John Yonge Akerman - Remains of Pagan Saxondom.
Events Christian Jürgensen Thomsen is appointed curator of the collections of the Museum of Northern Antiquities in Copenhagen, where he begins to organize them according to the three-age system.
August 10: Archaeologists working on the Stone Age site at Star Carr in North Yorkshire announce that they have found the earliest surviving remains of a house in Britain, dating from at least 8,500 years BC.
Deaths 1780: March 14 – Roque Joaquín de Alcubierre, Spanish-born military engineer and pioneer Classical archaeologist (b.
Events April 1 - Industrial Monuments Survey for the Ministry of Public Building and Works (Great Britain) commenced by Rex Wailes.
1755: Several sepulchral inscriptions and figures, in bas-relief, are discovered at Bonn in Lower Germany.
Explorations 1786: Antonio Bernasconi and Colonel Antonio del Rio examine the ruins of Palenque, making the first map of the site and some crude excavations.
Explorations Excavations Finds 1661: Athanasius Kircher discovers the ruins of a church in Rome said to have been constructed by the Emperor Constantine on the site of Saint Eustace's vision (later reconstructed as the Santuario della Mentorella).
Explorations Excavations Finds 1673: December 11 - Gray's Inn Lane Hand Axe excavated in London and recognised by John Conyers, the first paleolithic artefact to be identified as having human origins.
Finds April 13 - Dutch East India Company ship Vergulde Draeck wrecked in 1656 off Western Australia.
1719: December 2 - Workers in Falun Mine, Sweden, find the apparently petrified body of "Fet-Mats" Israelsson (d.
The tophet in Carthage is first excavated; since then, hundreds of urns and stelae (engraved stones) have been recovered.
Finds 1790 Pediment of the Roman temple at Bath, England, is discovered during work near the Roman Baths.
At Les Eyzies, France, a cave site is excavated containing Cro-Magnon remains, at the end of La Rue du Scez overlooking Le Havre du Scez (Saie).
November 20 – Luigi Palma di Cesnola, Italian American soldier, diplomat, archaeologist and museum director (born 1832) == References ==
Miscellaneous John Disney endows the Disney Professorship of Archaeology in the University of Cambridge, first held by John Howard Marsden Births 29 June: Jane Dieulafoy, born Jeanne Magre, French archaeologist, excavator of Susa, explorer, novelist and journalist (d.
At Les Eyzies, France, alongside the Cro-Magnon remains, numerous flint tools of Aurignacian manufacture are found.
Births 1730: September 16 - William Hamilton, Scottish diplomat, antiquarian, archaeologist and volcanologist (d.
Christian Thomsen, a Danish archaeologist, developed the three age system to date objects in museums.
It is put on public display and published in 1746, but poorly cared for until it gets an official curator, half a century later.
1713: Gold aureus coins found in Transylvania provide the only known evidence for Roman usurper Sponsianus.
The Narsaq stick is found in Greenland, the first example of Viking Age runic inscriptions found in the country.
1877) See also List of years in archaeology 1959 in archaeology 1961 in archaeology == References ==
November 22 - Frédéric Cailliaud discovers the old Roman Mons Smaragdus emerald mines at Sikait, Egypt.
Robert Huntington donates the limestone false door stele of Shery from Saqqara (Fourth Dynasty of Egypt), one of the first large Middle Eastern sculptures seen in Western Europe.
Events March - First Conference of Western Archaeologists on Problems of Point Typology at Idaho State College Museum.
Grime's Graves in the English county of Norfolk is excavated in 1868-1870, including Gallery III2b of Greenwell's Pit.
1798: December 10 - Some antiquities being shipped to England by Sir William Hamilton are lost in the wreck of HMS Colossus.
1797: James Hutton, a Scotsman who has been called "the Father of Geology," publishes theories describing the earth as destroying and renewing itself in a never-ending cycle.
26 Earliest evidence of a 430,000 years old wooden tools was announced at the Marathousa 1 site in Greece's central Peloponnese.
7 May: A team of Israeli archaeologists discover the tomb of Herod the Great, ruler of Judea (1st century BC).
c.1758) See also List of years in archaeology 1827 in archaeology 1829 in archaeology == References ==
Finds February 17 - The burial vault of Dunfermline Abbey in Scotland, containing the remains of Robert the Bruce, is uncovered and secured for scholarly examination.
Historic American Buildings Survey records Johnson's Mill Bridge, a wooden covered bridge over Chickie's Creek in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania.
List Chief of General Staff of Georgian Armed Forces (1991–2008) For period from 1921 to 1991, see Chief of the General Staff of the Soviet Union.
He studied international law and international relations at Tbilisi State University, followed by a Masters in Law at Indiana University in the USA.
Several Georgian Dream officials have accused her of working to spread fake news about Georgia in Ukraine.
The February 2004 constitutional amendment reestablished the position of prime minister and the Government of Georgia who were responsible before the president and the Parliament.
Furthermore, the oversight of the public budget is weak, and as of 2011 the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and other government bodies had yet to institute internal auditing.
The head of the Government of Georgia is the prime minister, who appoints and dismisses ministers and assigns the duties of vice prime minister to one of the government members.
The Guard actively participated in the conflicts that occurred in Georgian territory (Samachablo, Abkhazia).
Burjanadze said the arrests marked the start of a "punitive campaign" by the government against the opposition, ahead of the mass protest planned for 9 April to demand Saakashvili's resignation.
Although other minorities such as Catholics and Muslims had freedom to exercise their religion, they could officially register their religious groups only as unions or foundations, and not as churches.
The incoming government won the parliamentary vote of confidence with 99 votes in favor to 6 against on 20 June 2018.
He graduated from the Department of History of Tbilisi State University in 1958 and obtained a Doctorate in Historical Sciences in 1985.
In 2011, two businessmen from Israel, Ron Fuchs and Ze'ev Frenkiel, were imprisoned for offering a bribe to the Prime Minister, but were pardoned later that year, supposedly for humanitarian reasons.
Former Prime Minister Vano Merabishvili, governor of Kakheti Zurab Tchiaberashvili and Head of Penitentiary Department Bacho Akhalaia were among the ones who were arrested.
After the Sovietization of Georgia, he retired from politics and worked as a legal consultant in Georgia and Kazakhstan and engaged in research of pre- and revolutionary Georgia's history.
From 2005 to 2007 he was Head of the Department for Cultural Heritage and Relations with the Diaspora, and from 2007 to 2009 he was a Counselor at the Embassy of Georgia in the Russian Federation.
He argues that it will not only lower risks of a new military conflict between the two countries, but also bring the stability in the region which will also help Georgia's accession to the EU and NATO.
This time, Ukraine endorsed Tbilisi’s claims, turning over several patrol boats to the Georgian Navy and starting to train Georgian crews, but was unable to include in the final fleet deal a transfer of the formerly Poti-based vessels to Georgia.
From 2002 to 2005 he left government, becoming managing partner of the law firm Kavtaradze & Partners[1].
He chaired the Parliamentary Committee for the Euro-Atlantic Integration until 19 July 2007, when he was appointed as a Minister for the Conflict Issues, and hence, a chief negotiator in the Abkhazian and South Ossetian affairs.
The first government of Irakli Kobakhidze was the government of Georgia, led by Irakli Kobakhidze as the Prime Minister.
The legal bases for the Agency's operations are the Constitution of Georgia, the Georgian Law on State Procurement, international agreements and treaties, and the Agency regulations developed in accordance with those laws and treaties.
On 26 May at about 00:15, Georgian police began to suppress the protests with tear gas and rubber bullets.
Beginning in 1968, Gagoshidze has led various archaeological expeditions to Israel, Cyprus, Azerbaijan, Georgia's Ksani river valley, Samadlo, Dedoplistsqaro and other localities.
Career After Georgia's declaration of independence, he served as a Minister of War in the government of the Noe Ramishvili from 1918 to 1919 and then was elected to the Constituent Assembly of Georgia.
The cabinet was reconfirmed, with 101 votes in favor to 12 against, by the parliament on 14 July after the previously announced structural reforms in the cabinet ministries were implemented.
From 1920 to 1921, he led an opposition group "Skhivi" ("Beam") within the Georgian Social Democratic (Menshevik) Party.
Simon Mdivani is the first foreign ambassador to recognize the Kemalist regime poised to overthrow the power of Sultan Mehmed VI and the Ottoman Empire.
On 25 March 1993, the Parliament of Georgia adopted a resolution on the establishment of the State Constitutional Commission of Georgia and the approval of its Statute.
In 2007–2009 worked as the professor at The German Research Institute for Public Administration-speyer (Scholarship of Humboldt Foundation).
The government was formed by the ruling Georgian Dream–Democratic Georgia coalition after the preceding one was dissolved following Prime Minister Giorgi Kvirikashvili's resignation on 13 June 2018.
History The Tbilisi Appeal court was established on 1 November 2005, after the previously-operating Tbilisi Regional Court was abolished.
In April, she refused to have her faction represented in the parliamentary delegation visiting Ukraine along with GD.
The words "Soviet Socialist" were removed from the name of the country and the state was renamed "Republic of Georgia", state symbols were changed, the leading role of the Communist Party was abolished and political pluralism was introduced.
Election process A group of at least 30 electors is required to nominate the presidential candidate to the Electoral College.
He served as Director General of the National Agency for Cultural Heritage Preservation of Georgia from November 2008 until his resignation on 18 January 2013.
Nikoloz (Nika) Vacheishvili (Georgian: ნიკოლოზ ვაჩეიშვილი) (born 26 May 1968 in Tbilisi) is a Georgian art scholar, politician and the former Minister of Culture, Heritage Preservation and Sport in the Cabinet of Georgia.
Abkhazian authorities have accused Georgia of maintaining a blockade of the break-away province in order to weaken and isolate it.
He continued his studies in turn at primary school, at the Lyceum of Kutaisi, at the Faculty of Natural Sciences of the University of Odesa, in Ukraine.
The navy-building began with equipping fishing vessels by small caliber anti-aircraft guns and machine guns.
The economic policies of the state are described in the action plan of the Georgian Government for 2004–2009 titled For United and Powerful Georgia.
In a post on Facebook on 2 September 2019, Bakhtadze announced his resignation, saying that "at this stage", he has accomplished his mission.
On the night of 13 August 1992, Kitovani's force entered the autonomous republic of Abkhazia, whose leadership had taken a series of steps towards secession from Georgia, in order to establish control over the region's railways sabotaged by Gamsakhurdia's loyal militias.
As defined by the Constitution of Georgia, amended in 2017 and 2018, the Prosecutor's Office is led by the Prosecutor General (გენერალური პროკურორი), who is elected by the Parliament of Georgia for a term of 6 years.
Before the 2003 Rose Revolution, according to Foreign Policy, Georgia was among the most corrupt nations in Eurasia.
Since the yolks of older eggs are more watery, which makes separation difficult, it is best to begin with the freshest eggs available.
Solid bags Prepared foods can be securely packed into plastic bags, frozen, and often packed into paperboard folding cartons.
Similar methods exist throughout Latin America and the rest of the world, under distinct names, including pachamanca and huatia in the Andean region; curanto in Chile and southern Argentina; berarubu in Brazil; cocido enterrado in Colombia; or hāngī in New Zealand.
The asado en barbacoa (roasting in barbacoa) was widely prepared in Mexico at countryside festivities, such as rodeos (cattle roundups), herraderos (cattle branding celebrations), jaripeos and bull-fights, patron saint festivities of the hacienda, or family picnics.
Comparison to other methods of preparation Water is a relatively efficient conductor of heat, but it also has a fairly low limit to its maximum potential temperature (100 °C or 212 °F at sea level).
Porous bags Some dry products, typically grains, are sold in perforated plastic bags and designed for convenient cooking directly in the enclosure.
Implementing cofiring would require few modifications to the current characteristics to power plants, as only the fuel for the boiler would be altered.
Malosol or malossol (Russian: малосол, “lightly salted”) is a culinary term used in Russia and Eastern Europe to describe foods preserved with a low concentration of salt.
In 2026, the company fell into receivership, only weeks after being turned to Gordon Brothers by Quadrant Private Equity in 2025.
Typically an egg is poached just to the point where the white is no longer runny, and the yolk is beginning to harden around the edges.
In turn, a large amount of heat-sensitive nutrients may degrade, and antioxidant properties are lost.
The provolone, coated with flour and often topped with chilli flakes and oregano, is placed directly on the grill, on small stones or inside a foil plate, and cooked until part-melted.
While working his first company, J&W Foods, Schafer also worked at many local restaurants in the Baltimore area, including Gibby's, Chiapparelli's, and Tully's.
See also Corn on the cob List of cooking appliances Food portal Technology portal References External links How to Start Your Own Corn Roasting Business.
In Cuban cuisine, the Cuban sandwich (ham, roasted pork, Swiss cheese and pickles) is traditionally grilled à la plancha.
The common, but undocumented, origin given is that it was first used by Polish bakers around 1840, hence its name, and as a method was brought to France in the beginning of the 1920s.
Charcoal is a lightweight black carbon residue produced by strongly heating wood (or other animal and plant materials) in minimal oxygen to remove all water and volatile constituents.
The popularity of breadcrumbs in the fairy tale led to the use of the word breadcrumb as a navigation element that allows users to keep track of their locations within programs or documents.
Fresh The breads used to make soft or fresh breadcrumbs are not quite as dry, so the crumbs are larger and produce a softer coating, crust, or stuffing.
Crack the egg in half and cradle the yolk in one half of the shell (using the other half of the shell to keep it from slipping out) while draining the white into a bowl.
To avoid opening the pressure cooker too often while cooking different vegetables with varying cooking times, the vegetables that take longer to cook can be cut into smaller pieces and vegetables that cook faster can be cut into larger pieces.
A study of restaurants serving hash in South Carolina found that it was particularly popular around Columbia.
Method Steaming works by boiling water continuously, causing it to vaporize into steam; the steam excludes the air and carries heat to the nearby food, thus cooking the food.
The mini tour of the Pitmaster Facility and view of his mini grilling collection features history and artifacts of Swift and Company and C.F.
Boil-in-bags are a form of packaged food products in which bagged food is heated or cooked in boiling water.
The dish Discada or disco technically denotes the disc itself, though it has become synonymous with the popular meal commonly made on it.
As of 2007, coal-fired ovens were quite uncommon in the Western United States with only five others west of the Mississippi: four in an Arizona chain and one more in Las Vegas.
Traditionally, hash was made by stewing the ingredients in an iron kettle over a wood fire, a method which is still used by some restaurants and hash houses.
It consists of digging a hole, lighting a stove with firewood and stones, and cooking the food (traditionally pork or chicken) over low heat, all covered with more soil.
Omelettes, pancakes, crepes, paninis, yakisoba noodles, fried rice, tacos, quesadillas, grilled steak, bacon, flatbread, pizza, jerk chicken, crab cakes and sautéed vegetables are just a few examples of the wide range of foods that can be prepared on a flattop grill.
Recipes vary widely by region: Puerto Rican adobo, a rub used principally on meats, differs greatly from the Mexican variety.
Starching for juice Natural juice harvest Natural juices are only available for collagen-rich ingredients such as pork skin, beef tendons, or pork feet.
History From the Neolithic period, ceramic steamers known as yan have been found at the Banpo site, dating to 5000 BC.
The winning team will move on to the championship round, where they will compete for a $50,000 prize.
In English, however, "hibachi" often refers to small cooking grills typically made of aluminum or cast iron, with the latter generally being of a higher quality.
Square charcoal grills almost exclusively have four legs with two wheels on the back so the grill can be tilted back using the handles for the lid to roll the grill.
In both cases, its main purpose is to deactivate enzymes that cause browning as well as textural changes and off-flavors.
40-parts-to-60-parts of old-dough-to-new-dough by weight, or 2-to-3, is known as the back-slopping ratio, and changes to that ratio change the pH of the just-refreshed dough.
One example of this is the production of carbon disulphide through the reaction of sulfur vapors with hot charcoal.
This advantage allows hot water blanching at lower temperatures, but requires longer blanching times.
After grilling it is typically chopped for filling tacos and burritos, which also minimizes toughness.
Additionally, there are several other types of meats that are barbecued in Mexico, depending on the geographic region.
Simmering generally uses a higher temperature for cooking, and because it surrounds the food in water that maintains a more or less constant temperature, simmering cooks food very evenly.
Description The flattop grill is a versatile platform for many cooking techniques such as sautéing, toasting, simmering, shallow frying, stir frying, pan frying, browning, blackening, grilling, baking, braising, and roasting, and can also be used for flambéing.
No points are awarded, and the winner is determined by who garnered the most laughs throughout the course of the game.
In some cases, the identical spelling of a word in two languages is coincidental; in other cases, it is because they descend from the same ancestor word.
The recipient of the challenge must then provide a valid reserve word which contains the word-stem in play.
In September 2025, themed puzzles for all 32 NFL teams were created to coincide with the start of the 2025 NFL season, and were available for the entire month.
Example games Two example games could be played as follows: In Example 1, it can be noted that the phrase "AT" does not end the game; this is because words only become valid once they are at least three letters long.
Mobile games like Letterpress, Words with Friends, and Word Connect have also brought word games to modern audiences.
Eraser blocks will fall and remove whatever letter that they land on (in the SNES version, the eraser is replaced with bombs and vials of acid).
At the end of a round, a selection of top-scoring valid Snaps is displayed, followed by the results of all players in each round.
In 1980 Universal Press Syndicate of Kansas City assumed syndication rights and continues to do so today.
Notable players Samuel Pepys recorded playing in his diary entry of Saturday 19 May 1660: "From thence to the Hague again playing at crambo in the waggon, Mr.
Gameplay The premise of the game is making words from random letters on a grid for points, and scoring as many points as possible.
The magazine organizes the SymmyS Awards, an annual palindrome competition named after a 1991 book by Hugo Brandt Corstius (writing as Battus) and adjudicated by a celebrity panel.
References External links The Fumblerules of Grammar by William Safire Fumblerules entry on the alt.usage.english FAQ Hacker writing style section of JARGON FILE, VERSION 4.3.3, 20 SEP 2002
A semantically equivalent form preserving the original word order is: "Buffalonian bison [whom other] Buffalonian bison bully [also] bully Buffalonian bison." Sentence construction The sentence is unpunctuated and uses three different readings of the word "buffalo".
Malapropism Replacing a word with a different word that sounds similar, either unintentionally or for comedic effect.
'Javanese (language)') is a type of French slang where the extra syllable ⟨av⟩ is infixed inside a word after every consonant that is followed by a vowel, in order to render it incomprehensible.
Merriam-Webster's Befudiom is a word game where teams are challenged to guess selected idioms by acting, shouting, drawing, or spelling them out.
A 1998 game show pilot episode hosted by Bill Rafferty that was not picked up for a full production season.
Unpaired words: Deliberate use of unusual or obsolete antonyms, such as "I was well-coiffed and sheveled", (back-formation from "disheveled").
It was first published by Winning Moves Games USA in 1996 and was republished in 2006 as 25 Words or Less: People, Places and Things Edition.
The social media discourse saw debate over gatekeeping, with some advocating for its being shared only in closed groups among African Americans whose ancestors were enslaved in the United States while others promoted public sharing of Tut and its rules among as many African Americans as possible.
By extension, the vertices can be identified with words instead of letters to form eodermdromic phrases or sentences.
A homograph is a word that is written the same as another word, but which (usually) has a different meaning.
An interlingual homograph is a word that occurs in more than one written language, but which has a different meaning or pronunciation in each language.
Since all the other children spoke Pig Latin, we were superior because Tut was hard to speak and even harder to understand.
Word length The minimum acceptable word length can be adjusted to a player's skill level (for example, in a game with adults and children playing together, the children may be permitted to form four-letter words while the adults are restricted to words of at least five or six letters).
An eodermdrome is a form of word play wherein a word (or phrase) is formed from a set of letters (or words) in such a way that it has a non-planar spelling net.
Masonry (secret society), which is in essence a peculiar use of the word masonry (wall building) – are omitted.
Using tiles unlocks other tiles adjacent to them, however tiles not used for a number of turns decay into unusable stone blocks.
Games are written by The Athletic's managing editor for news, Mark Cooper, who became the site's puzzle editor with the launch.
Objectives and rules The objective of the puzzle is to find words which can be made using a given group of letters.
"Buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo" is a sentence that is grammatically correct in English that is often presented as an example of how homonyms and homophones can be used to create complicated linguistic constructs through lexical ambiguity.
(اگه یگ بوسئ مئ دادی چه مئ شه؟) Aga yag bose me'dādi va āshegh (اگه یگ بوسئ مئ دادی وه عاشق) Va fardāye qiāmat kam name'sha.
Considering the novel a step towards literature comparable with the artistic impact of Dadaism and surrealism, Thaler surmised, "The verb is like a weed in a field of flowers.
Other examples include "honest politician", "affordable caviar" (1993), "happily married" and "Microsoft Works" (2000).
Past judges have included Will Shortz, MC Paul Barman, Ben Zimmer, David Allen Cress, "Weird Al" Yankovic, Demetri Martin, and John Flansburgh.
'dustbins' meaning 'children', as in 'dustbin lids'='kids'; 'Teds' being 'Ted Heath' and thus 'teeth'; and even 'Chitty Chitty' being 'Chitty Chitty Bang Bang', and thus 'rhyming slang'...).
A fumblerule is a rule of language or linguistic style, humorously written in such a way that it breaks this rule.
First published in 1991 by the English board game company Oxford Games Ltd., Ex Libris was devised and compiled by Leslie Scott (the creator of Jenga) and designed by Sara Finch.
Although the older version has been discontinued, some retailers refer to the newer one as "Boggle Reinvention" to avoid confusion.
The term fumblerules was coined in a list of such rules compiled by William Safire on Sunday, 4 November 1979, in his column "On Language" in The New York Times.
ngware becomes rengwa) See also Costermonger (British street vendors from whom back slang originates) Pig Latin References External links Victorian Web Article John Burkardt's list of back slang words at Florida State University
Origin The idea that one can construct a grammatically correct sentence consisting of nothing but repetitions of "buffalo" was independently discovered several times in the 20th century.
The number of points awarded for a correct answer is determined by rolling a traditional die numbered from one to six.
"Ultrasonographic monitoring of artificially stimulated ejaculation in three rhinoceros species (Ceratotherium simum, Diceros bicornis, Rhinoceros unicornus)." Journal of Zoo and Wildlife Medicine (1998): 386-393.
A former psychotherapist, in 2009, at the age of 44, she realized that she would never be a mother and set up a network of childless women aged 35 and over, named Gateway Women.
This technique is particularly useful in cases where infertility is caused by poor sperm production, thus solving most problems of male infertility.
Thomas Ray Lippert (1950–1999) was a convict and former business law professor at Southwest State College in Marshall, Minnesota.
According to Purdy's obituary in The Times, Purdy was the first person to identify and describe the formation of human blastocysts.
Indications ZIFT has been used in infertility situations where at least one of the fallopian tubes is normal and other treatments have failed; however, the need for two interventions and the fact that IVF results are equal or better (as of 2004), leaves few indications for this procedure.
History Bourn Hall Clinic was founded in 1980 by IVF pioneers Mr Patrick Steptoe, embryologist Jean Purdy and Professor Robert Edwards, who were responsible for the conception of Louise Brown, the world's first IVF or test-tube baby in 1977.
For that reason, it is necessary to check the amount being ovulated via ultrasound (checking the amount of follicles developing at the same time) and administering the desired amount of hormones.
Feskov (born 17 February 1959 in Alchevsk, Ukraine) is a Ukrainian physician, reproductive scientist, and ultrasonographer who specialises in reproductive technology and fertility treatment.
Matches can occur between half siblings (light yellow), sperm donors and their offspring (dark yellow), or egg donors and their offspring (also dark yellow).
Case studies for the productivity of these incentives on dairy farms have shown to have positive results.
Ganirelix acetate (or diacetate), sold under the brand names Orgalutran and Antagon among others, is an injectable competitive gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist (GnRH antagonist).
However, as this protocol to use more and more infertility drugs became the conventional IVF that we know today, many physicians began seeing the risks associated with conventional IVF.
It can be suitable for women who want to avoid ovarian stimulation or fertility drugs as a matter of choice, and for those for whom there may be no other choice, such as women at risk of hormone-related cancers.
Having a full bladder for the transabdominal portion of the exam is helpful because sound travels through fluid with less attenuation to better visualize the uterus and ovaries which lies posteriorly to the bladder.
Jean Marian Purdy (25 April 1945 – 16 March 1985) was a British nurse, embryologist and pioneer of fertility treatment.
Other notable physicians who have done related research include Yury Verlinsky, Lars Johanson, and Norbert Gleicher.
The reduction of testosterone in the male body normally results in an overall decrease in the production of viable sperm for these individuals, thereby making it hard for them to father children without fertility treatment.
It is estimated that approximately 25–30% of GIFT cycles result in pregnancy, with a third of those being twins or triplets, etc.
As men age there is a consistent decline in semen quality, and this decline appears to be due to DNA damage.
Baldev Chaddha is a fertility expert who runs a clinic and a sperm bank in Daryaganj, Delhi, that guarantees high-quality sperm for couples.
Honours and awards Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in 1982 Medicine, Companion of the Order of Australia (AC) in 1995 for his services to women's health and as a pioneer of in-vitro fertilisation.
With the use of a connector and adapter which had a syringe or rubber bulb attached it was air thawed or thawed in the cow.
The success of ganirelix in reproductive therapy has been shown to be comparable to that when using GnRH agonists.
I don’t think so." Simone was born in Japan as a self-described "mistake baby" and the only child to a failed polyamorous marriage.
She also apparently spent more time in at the laboratory in Oldham than Edwards did, recording the results of endocrine monitoring, organising laboratory equipment and supplies, and running various tests.
While medical literature recommends that extraction take place no later than 24 hours after death, motile sperm has been successfully obtained as late as 36 hours after death, generally regardless of the cause of death or method of extraction.
Whole ovarian culture The culture of intact ovaries supports the formation and development of primordial follicles.
Using her donor's cryobank number in the Donor Sibling Registry, she managed to find other siblings conceived from the same donor.
Bioethical issues Gamete intrafallopian transfer is not technically in vitro fertilisation because with GIFT, fertilisation takes place inside the body, not on a petri dish.
Additionally, it is more important that the aspirate is filtered when retrieving immature follicles, as the follicles are much smaller and harder to see in the fluid extracted.
Prevention and treatment of infertility caused by radiotherapy In modern medicine there are multiple options to limit the effect of cancer treatment on fertility.
Further research a few years later also confirmed the decline in sperm count and also seminal volume.
He "can read and write Punjabi too." Khurrana turned down three film projects to play the lead in Vicky Donor.
It is used to help select embryos with lower risk of defects and/or greater potential of implantation.
It was founded in September 2000 by a mother-and-son team, Wendy Kramer and Ryan Kramer of Nederland, Colorado.
Donor embryo transfer has given women a mechanism to become pregnant and give birth to a child that will contain their husband's genetic makeup.
Frozen bovine semen is a method of preserving bovine semen for future artificial insemination, even after the death of the donor.
The most common types of cancer diagnosed under the age of 40 years are breast cancer, melanoma, cervical cancer, non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and leukaemia.
Laparoscopy pioneer After the Second World War, he studied obstetrics and, in 1951 he started to work at the Oldham & District General Hospital.
In the majority opinion (joined by Justices Ralph Cappy and Ronald Castille), Justice Max Baer upheld the validity of the verbal contract between Joel McKiernan and Ivonne Ferguson and thus held that McKiernan had no obligation to pay child support.
Paul Devroey (co-)authored over 440 international peer reviewed articles, some of which have over 1000 citations, and three books.
Awards and honours In 1979, Steptoe received the Golden Plate Award of the American Academy of Achievement.
Since 1980, a number of requests for the procedure have been made, with around one third approved and performed.
An optimization for the cost and sleeping period of the Request PDUs must be done on the application layer.
The stack is complemented by an implementation of 6LoWPAN, RPL in non-storing mode, UDP and CoAP, enabling access to devices running the stack from the native IPv6 through open standards.
Radio amateurs without the EchoLink software or a computer connected to the Internet can take advantage of the EchoLink network if they are within radio range of a sysop mode EchoLink station.
After the 2004 tsunami, Radwin donated 1,000 wireless broadband units for the reconstruction of Thailand's communications network.
Each center provides public computers, printers, and Internet access, plus a trainer to manage the center and teach various computer literacy courses.
In 2010 it began to design and engineer pioneer technologies to implement interoperable and highly scalable IPv6/6LoWPAN network infrastructures for industrial or urban applications.
It also creates hardware for transportation applications such as metro systems, bus networks, ferries, airports, and vehicles such as patrol vehicles, manned and unmanned heavy machinery used in mines and ports.
Cisco announced in January 2013 that it would sell its home networking division and Linksys to Belkin, giving Belkin 30% of the home router market.
CBRP is shown to perform moderately well in large and high density mesh networks See also Wireless ad hoc networks Mesh networking List of Ad Hoc Routing Protocols == References ==
Wiliot produces battery-free printable sensor tags designed to collect and transmit data from products like groceries, apparel and pharmaceuticals from their sources to stores and homes.
With 4G deployment rising, it is critical to have the airwave space to support future innovation and to avoid the spectrum crunch.
When a digital camera takes a photo, the light entering its lens is the analog information, and the photo file is the digital representation of said light.
See also Wireless mesh network IEEE 802.11 Mesh networking Switched mesh Wi-Fi Wireless LAN 802.16 External links White Paper: Capacity of Wireless Mesh Networks Understanding single radio, dual radio and multi radio wireless mesh networks.
These sequences were initially developed for radar, telemetry, and digital speech encryption in the 1940s and 1950s.
MCA allows wireless clients to choose which access points (APs) to communicate with for access to the network, in contrast to single-channel architecture, which gives more control to the centralized network devices such as the wireless LAN controller.
In this regard, a BTS forms part of the base station subsystem (BSS) developments for system management.
The project was developed by the Open Technology Institute, and development included a $2 million grant from the United States Department of State in 2011 for use as a mobile ad hoc network (MANET), concomitant with the Arab Spring.
Up to 255 further slave devices can be inactive, or parked, which the master device can bring into active status at any time, but an active station must go into parked first.
External memory From an energy perspective, the most relevant kinds of memory are the on-chip memory of a microcontroller and Flash memory—off-chip RAM is rarely, if ever, used.
SCHC associates the benefits of the RoHC context, which provides high flexibility in the fields processing, and of the 6LoWPAN operations to avoid transiting fields that are known by the other side.
Companies For enterprise use, the following vendors produce IP-DECT systems: Aastra (DeTeWe) Ascom (company) Gigaset Mitel NEC Panasonic Spectralink 7000 series (Polycom, Kirk) Alcatel-Lucent Ericsson-LG See also CAT-iq Voice over WLAN == References ==
The company is known particularly for long range communications, interference rejection, industrial quality, and high reliability.
MegaFon viewed the hybrid orbital-ground network as an economically viable alternative to laying fiber optic cables to sparsely populated areas and as a universal transport network for all generations of cellular network technology.
TBRPF transmits only the differences between the previous network state and the current network state.
The current implementation of CCKM requires Cisco compatible hardware and either LEAP, EAP-FAST (CCXv3) or PEAP-GTC, PEAP-MSCHAP, EAP-TLS (CCXv4).
Technical measures to limit exposure include restricting the radio frequency power emitted by the station, elevating the antenna above ground level, changes to the antenna pattern, and barriers to foot or road traffic.
John Horrigan of the Pew Research Center commented that the high cost of broadband now is why more Americans are not already using it.
This allows the phone to have a voice connection and a data connection at the same time, rather than a single channel that has to be used for one or the other.
OpenWSN aims to build an open standard-based and open source implementation of a complete constrained network protocol stack for wireless sensor networks and Internet of Things.
See also Dynamic routing List of ad hoc routing protocols External links Hui Liu et al., An Adaptive Genetic Fuzzy Multi-path Routing Protocol for Wireless Ad Hoc Networks Runtong Zhang, A Fuzzy Routing Mechanism In Next-Generation Networks
OpenWSN is related to other projects including the following: RIOT OpenMote OpenWSN is available for Linux, Windows and OS X platforms.
MCA is the most commonly used network architecture, as it is the most intuitive way to solve the problem of co-channel interference (although it does not eliminate the problem).
As Tinynode was specialized in wireless vehicle detection systems, the two companies aimed at positioning as unique enabler of any kind of smart environment through compelling solutions for the Internet of Things.
It is usually used in the context of big data in which it is generated by many different sources at high speed.
The IoT Pixel includes an ARM Cortex-M0+ processor core, Bluetooth Low Energy connectivity, 1 kB of non-volatile memory, and antennas for Bluetooth and energy harvesting.
TIA-41 standards TIA-41 is a set of telecommunications standards that define signaling and intersystem procedures for cellular networks.
He is the inventor of Karn's Algorithm, a method for calculating the round trip time for IP packet retransmission.
This means that after a Bluetooth device has been added to the piconet, each device is assigned a specific time period to transmit and they do not collide or overlap with other units operating within the same piconet.
More people put up nodes of the wireless networks, more people share their Internet uplinks with others, more everybody gains.
Topology broadcast based on reverse-path forwarding (TBRPF) is a link-state routing protocol for wireless mesh networks.
This is a first generation mesh where the total available bandwidth of the radio channel is ‘shared’ between all the neighboring nodes in the mesh.
Wireless Toronto hotspots are created using Linksys WRT54G or Motorola WR850G wireless routers running OpenWrt and WifiDog.
Its solutions are ready for the Internet of things, and enable cities and companies to collect, transport, store and deliver any kind of data lying in industrial plants or urban objects, transforming information into actionable intelligence to feed business decisions.
Each symbol is represented by a cyclic shifted chirp over the bandwidth centered around the base frequency.
During the next week, Brent and WTI fell to their lowest levels since January after a pessimistic forecast for U.S.
In mid-January 2010, the blackouts were "suspended indefinitely", following increased water levels and the acquisition of several generators.
During this meeting, Putin publicly promised Fico that Russia's Gazprom would find alternative ways to deliver contracted gas to Slovakia after the Ukrainian transit ended.
Political reaction The Bulgarian energy minister Peter Dimitrov said customers were to blame as they refused to pay their bills.
A field containing 500 million barrels or more ultimately recoverable reserves is a giant field, while a super giant contains 5 billion barrels or more recoverable reserves.
At the time of the invasion, Iraq owed Kuwait $14 billion of outstanding debt that Kuwait had loaned it during the 1980–1988 Iran–Iraq War.
Players who ordered Frontlines: Fuel of War from GameStop or Best Buy were given a special code which gave access to one of two Challenge Maps.
At the time, Simmons was asked by a reporter if he had any second thoughts about the wager and replied, "God, no.
He added that an attack against Transnistria guaranteed a Russian invasion and "deprivation of the statehood" of Moldova.
Initially, this was a very difficult situation for Cubans to accept; many came home from studying abroad to find that there were no jobs in their fields.
Organic agriculture soon developed, supplanting the old industrialized form of agriculture Cubans had grown accustomed to.
According to a 2019 study, individuals who were between the ages of 15 and 18 during the 1979 oil crisis were substantially less likely to use cars once they were in their mid-30s.
Anti-globalists apply a similar argument, but tend to focus on exploitation of third world societies rather than the environment.
2011–2013 2011 Political turmoil in Egypt, Libya, Yemen, and Bahrain drove oil prices to $95/barrel in late February 2011.
See also International crisis National Front (Iran) Timeline of the Abadan Crisis British occupation of Bushehr Nissho Maru Incident == Notes ==
These schemes provide management and investors with the means to make quantitative and relative comparisons between assets, before underwriting the significant cost of exploring for, developing and extracting those accumulations.
Starting with the Iranian revolution, the price of crude oil rose to $39.50 per barrel ($248/m3) over the next 12 months (its all-time highest real price until March 3, 2008).
The Russian military buildup outside Ukraine and subsequent invasion threatened the energy supply from Russia to Europe.
However, on 15 December 2022, the Public Works Department (JKR) announced the demolition of the Rasau Bridge Toll building.
The explosions suspended gas supply to Georgia at a time when the weather was particularly cold, leading to allegations of deliberate energy blackmail carried out by the Russian government.
The graph shows actual gas production in blue compared to his predicted gas production for the United States in red, published in 1962.
decision to re-supply the Israeli military" during the Yom Kippur war, after the Soviet Union re-supplied Egypt, and Syria; it lasted until March 1974.
Some 350,000 people lived in Transnistria as of January 2025; over 90% had Moldovan citizenship as of December 2024.
There were a few times when parts of Moldova were in blackout due to Russian shelling of critical infrastructure of Ukraine.
The Obama Administration has now modernized the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) in order to allow a fair governing on the quality of our environment.
Also, the millions of source rock samples that have been analyzed for petroleum yield by the petroleum industry have confirmed the large quantities of petroleum found in sedimentary basins.
North Carolina governor Pat McCrory, Tennessee governor Bill Haslam and South Carolina governor Nikki Haley all declared states of emergency, allowing fuel tankers to work longer hours to maintain the availability of gasoline.
These declarations eliminated certain size and weight restrictions on vehicles carrying gasoline, and the hours during which they are allowed to deliver.
Aftermath Battle of Ideas Popular disillusionment in the economy inspired the Cuban government to revitalize the population's enthusiasm for socialism.
For the first week of July, oil rose 5 percent, with Brent finishing at $78.47, highest since May 1, and WTI at $73.86, highest since May 24.
Hubbert's theory is used to predict when a resource will reach its peak of production by studying past resource discovery and production trends.
European Union responses In response to these complaints, European Commission officials publicly assured that they would review the matter and facilitate a resolution, while also stating that there was no immediate threat to the EU's general oil supply security.
The Bạch Hổ oil field in Vietnam has been proposed as an example of abiogenic oil because it is 4,000 m of fractured basement granite, at a depth of 5,000 m.
This is what led to the rumors regarding the fuel shortage originated from which made the public panic Sapugaskanda Oil Refinery Shutdown - another issue faced in this crisis was the power loss which caused the Sapugaskanda Oil Refinery to be shut down for almost three days.
Every generating station trips from time to time due to minor defects and can usually be restarted when the defect has been remedied.
Performance-based methods Once production has commenced, production rates and pressure data allow a degree of prediction on reservoir performance, which was previously characterized by substituting analog data.
Krasnoselsky thanked von der Leyen the day of the resumption and Moldovan "specialists" and leaders two days later, and Moldovan news website Ziarul Național reported that some civilians in Transnistria took to the streets to celebrate the restoration of gas supplies.
The price of gas on June 17 was $3.67.5 a gallon, 25.1 cents lower than a month earlier but 96.8 cents above a year earlier.
Whilst flow was now at optimal rates, Colonial claimed it would be "several days" before processed fuel reached and replenished affected areas.
Many forecourts were rationing drivers to as little as £10 each, while others imposed a minimum spend of £25.
The government response was varied, and in Karakalpakstan, they met protesters and promised to rectify the situation, while the local government head of Hazarasp responded to a complaint by one woman by cutting off gas altogether to all the houses on her street.
The EGDP-01 platform was put in the field and the gases would then be carried by pipelines to the Brunei LNG plant, via South West Ampa gas field.
Joe Barton, R-Tex., the committee's chairman, answers that it is a low blow to use what ExxonMobil actually said against them.
This is a list of major hydroelectric power station failures due to damage to a hydroelectric power station or its connections.
7:8,15-16,23-25) Unlike the other high priests, Christ does not need to offer sacrifices day after day, first for his own sins, and then for the sins of the people.
A standard solution to this problem is found in Zermelo set theory, which does not allow the unrestricted formation of sets from arbitrary properties.
There is a safe place in view of all, but difficult of approach, where there is no old age nor death, no pain nor disease.
This verse is interpreted by Rabbi Even-Israel Steinsaltz to enjoin him to willingly surrender life and fortune whenever the cause of God demands it, while it at the same time urges him to make God beloved by all his creatures through deeds of kindness, as Abraham did (Sifre, Deut.
Such dualism does not represent absolute good and evil, but the black gods become evil when acting out of agreement with older and stronger white gods.
In the words of historians, it was an interpretive framework of occurring natural, political and social events at a time when the religious and the secular were not clearly divided.
By the dawn of the sixteenth century, the care of souls was to many priests and not a few bishops a lost or a never-acquired art, with the result that the laity were ready to throw off what was deemed to be a useless clerical yoke.
The sin-offering and guilt offering were offered for individual sins, while the Yom Kippur Temple service helped achieve atonement at a national level.
Starting with correspondences of the divine in matter, the theurgist eventually reaches the level where the soul's inner divinity unites with the One.
The biblical bases for a cosmic Christology is often found in Colossians, Ephesians, and the prologue to the gospel of John.
Nicholson, in his Philosophical Papers of 1864, attributes "the famous inquiries" to Epicurus, using words previously phrased by Hume.
Terminology Tinok shenishba is an abbreviation form of tinok shenishba bein hanochrim, which translates to "An infant captured [and consequently raised] among gentiles," according to Reform rabbi Solomon Freehof in a 1960 responsum for the Central Conference of American Rabbis.
In January 2008 Benedict cancelled a visit to La Sapienza University in Rome, following a protest letter signed by sixty-seven academics which said he condoned the 1633 trial and conviction of Galileo for heresy.
102b; Sifra, Emor, ix.), but so to conduct himself in every way as to prevent the name of God from being dishonored by non-Israelites.
Das angebliche Epikurfragment bei Laktanz, De ira dei 13,20–21, in: Vigiliae Christianae 42 (1988), pp.
The pairs of the characteristics and their potential contradictions they would create consist of the following: If a god knows everything and has unlimited power, then it has knowledge of all evil and has the power to put an end to it.
For a God to be perfect, he cannot rule solely by predestination, because then he would lack the good possessed by a God who led by persuasion.
Personal life and death In 2005, Bernstein married Steven Tenenbaum, and the couple moved to Amherst, Massachusetts.
History During the Middle Ages, there was not yet a separated and systematized science of pastoral theology.
"I don't know for certain but I think God is very improbable, and I live my life on the assumption that he is not there." - Implicit and explicit atheism • positive and negative atheism • agnostic atheism Strong atheist.
In his own mystical ascension, remniscient of Muhammad's Journey through the heavens, he describes the visions of paradise as nothing but another worldly distraction; the true goal of his quest is meeting God.
Things are what they are no matter what I think they should be." See also Charles Hartshorne References Charles Hartshorne: Dipolar Theism
Quotes "Existence is not an inherent quality of essence, but only a predicate or an accident of essence" "Absolute Majesty-Beauty, like sheer being-sheer possibility, forms the totality of wujud" == References ==
Adult life and impact Bernstein eschewed terms like "Jewish environmentalism" because she felt they implied Judaism was not inherently ecologically based.
She is stated to be a powerful cosmic aspect (vyaṣṭi) of Devi, and represents the guna (universal energy) named tamas, and is the personification of the universal power of transformation, the transcendent power of time.
It was published earlier in the United Kingdom as The Paradise Papers: The Suppression of Women's Rites.
Monotheism In Ukraine, there has been a debate as to whether the religion should be monotheistic or polytheistic.
While they are indeed sinners, he declares them unintentional participants in their lack of adherence to Jewish law and belief, similar to the case of a tinok shenishba.
In the Qur'an, walaya is expressed in the Sura al-Kahf's fable of the rich but immoral owner of two gardens and his poor but pious companion.
It was said Dioscorus had previously gathered 1000 monks, telling them to wait outside the church during the council and to come when he called them.
At its founding, the group agreed to convene again in November, 1990, during the annual meeting of the American Academy of Religion and Society of Biblical Literature, the primary academic guild for many of its original members, and on its own again the next year.
In his theology, Helios, the sun, was the ideal example of the perfection of the gods and light, a symbol of divine emanation.
The reason being that they wanted the Sacred Masculine to become the dominant power, and rule over women and Goddess energies.
After three annual conferences at Stanford, COV&R shifted to meeting at locations around the world and now rotates between Europe, North America, and other continents.
Huangdi is the model of those who merge their self with the self of the universal God, of the ascetics who reach enlightenment or immortality.
According to the Talmud, the wearing of the Priestly turban atoned for the sin of haughtiness on the part of the Children of Israel (B.
Similarly, The Guide for the Perplexed (directed at the spiritual elite) presents an ideal in which a person would "reject, despise, and reduce his desires as much as is in his power[...] He should only give way to them when absolutely necessary".
One who refuses to partake of the material world was even described as a sinner by Samuel of Nehardea in tractate Taanit (Taanit 11a).
Popularized by Richard Dawkins in The God Delusion, the spectrum of theistic probability is a way of categorizing one's belief regarding the probability of the existence of a deity.
7:11) The basis of the Aaronic priesthood was ancestry; the basis of the priesthood of Melchizedek is everlasting life.
See also Vitalism Biopolitics Biopower Body politic Christian bioethics Ecotheology References External links Biotheology: Theology, Ethics and the New Biotechnologies.
The cosmic Christ is a view of Christology which emphasises the extent of Jesus Christ's concern for the cosmos.
Eventually, in February 449, they acquitted Ibas once more, together with his fellow accused: Daniel, Bishop of Harran and John of Theodosianopolis.
While the conception of a supreme, happy and blessed god was the most popular during his time, Epicurus rejected such a notion, as he considered it too heavy a burden for a god to have to worry about all the problems in the world.
Driftwood could be used to make bows if it was straight grained and in reasonably good condition; these were reinforced with sinew cables.
Can be used by woodworkers, for example a drawer or box can be glued and skew-nailed with finer nails or panel pins.
When moisture comes into contact with wood, the water molecules penetrate the cell wall and become bound to cell wall components through hydrogen bonding.
The figure of a particular piece of wood is, in part, due to its grain and, in part, due to the cut, or to innate properties of the wood.
The Sororium Tigillum, which translates as the "sister's beam", was a wooden beam said to have been erected on the slope of the Oppian Hill in Ancient Rome by the father of Publius Horatius, one of the three brothers Horatii.
Previously common woods for building barns and other structures were redwood (Sequoia sempervirens) on the U.S.
Cope and stick construction is a frame and panel joinery technique often used in the making of doors, wainscoting, and other decorative features for cabinets, furniture, and homes.
Essentially, the nominal dimensions assume a larger volume than the actual board contains, which is especially relevant when estimating material needs or costs.
To ensure that logs drifted freely along the river, men called "log drivers" or "river pigs" were needed to guide the logs.
In autumn the foliage can develop rich yellow, orange or red tones, particularly in trees grown in continental or mountain climates.
Combined hydrolysis and fermentation Some species of bacteria have been found capable of direct conversion of a cellulose substrate into ethanol.
Publius Horatius was required to pass under the beam, as if under a yoke, following the decision of the people's assembly to not punish him for the murder of his sister.
These include the International Tropical Timber Agreement (1983), the Convention of International Trade on Endangered Species (1975) and the Global Environment Facility (1991).
American chestnut wood can be identified as pre- or post-blight by analysis of worm tracks in sawn timber.
Early photographs of the Pacific coast reveal greater amounts of driftwood on the beaches than is present today.
The Deering Banjo Company uses blackwood ("grenadilla") to construct the tone ring in its John Hartford-model banjo because it weighs less than brass or bronze tone rings, and that the wood "plays in" (improves in tone) with use.
Bamboo flooring is often considered a form of wood flooring, although it is made from bamboo rather than timber.
Despite the reduction in size due to drying and planing, nominal dimensions are still used when calculating board feet for surfaced softwood lumber.
Toenailing or skew-nailing is a viable, structurally sound method of the driving of a nail at a roughly 30° angle to fasten two pieces of wood together, typically with their grains perpendicular.
Brushed and oiled – Steel brushes are used in the direction of the grain which opens up the surface of the wood and removes splinters.
Hand whittled treenails retain rough facets, while those produced mechanically using a tine-former or parsed out of turned billets do not.
Name Steam donkeys acquired their name from their origin in sailing ships, where the "donkey" engine was typically a small secondary engine used to load and unload cargo and raise the larger sails with small crews, or to power pumps.
They spotted a curious piece of loose rock with a bit of wood embedded in it and took it home with them.
Canica is a medical design company associated with Lee Valley Tools which arose out of consultations between Leonard Lee and surgeon Michael Bell after Lee found that Bell was using Lee Valley tools in his plastic surgery practice.
In 2012, New Zealand ordered a trial batch of "EcoTrax" brand recycled composite ties from Axion for use on turnouts and bridges, and a further three-year order in 2015, but then Axion filed for bankruptcy in December 2015, though it continues to trade.
Holan, Jerri (1990), Norwegian Wood (First American ed.), New York: Rizzoli, ISBN 978-0-8478-0954-7.
Modern use includes gas heating, the traditional fire-heated method, an iron heated by electricity (electric cattle branding iron) or an iron super cooled by dry ice (freeze branding iron).
White-rot fungi have long since been staples of human diet and remain an important source of nutrition for people around the world.
Examples of wood items which are commonly stabilized include knife handles, pistol grips, straight razors, game calls and jewelry.
The wood is ground against a surface of ceramic, stone, or coral skeleton, and combined with water and oil to make the paste.
The paste is typical of Madagascar's Northwestern coastal region, particularly by Sakalava and Vezo women in the provinces of Nosy Be, Antsiranana, and Toliara—though it has spread throughout the island and can now be found adorning women's faces as far as the Central Highlands.
Similarly, the Latin Vulgate (5th century AD) rendered it as de lignis levigatis (lævigatis, in the spelling of the Clementine Vulgate), 'of timber planks'.
There are extensive rubber plantations with mature trees, especially in southeast Asia; the earlier practice was to burn the tree at the end of its latex-producing cycle.
They are generally 7–12cm long and up to 13–16cm across, dark to mid green and smooth above, with a grey green, persistently hairy underside that helps distinguish the subspecies from typical A.
Ancient and modern kuphar boats on the Tigris and Euphrates are also built of reeds, waterproofed with pitch.
Rubberwood is commonly advertised as an "environmentally friendly" wood, as it makes use of plantation trees that have already served a useful function.
A bead is a woodworking decorative treatment applied to various elements of wooden furniture, boxes and other items.
History CTE was established in January 2002 following the result of a feasibility study carried out by the Scottish Forest Industries Cluster: a partnership between Forest Industries Development Council (now part of ConFor) and Scottish Enterprise.
Membership Membership in the Guild does not necessarily reflect competency but an interest in construction, learning and/or teaching.
One of the most commonly used stabilizing methods utilizes a heat cured polymer known as methyl methacrylate (MMA).
The Exotic Tropic Timber Enterprises (ETTE) was formed by Fernando Robleda as a logging company in Liberia in February 1997.
Current and future applications White-rot fungi have historically been valued as food, but in recent years exploration of their enzymatic capabilities has revealed white-rot fungi's potential in depollution.
However, one can also use inverted fillets as form of picture frame on small, flat objects, as seen below: In this case, the card was glued to the lip of the inverted fillet (which is thus hidden behind the back of the card).
The first machine tools offered for sale (i.e., commercially available) were constructed by Matthew Murray in England around 1800.
Rio de Janeiro's mayor-elect Eduardo Paes has ruled out building the racetrack in the Deodoro neighborhood, in the Camboatá forest, due to political agreements; he will evaluate another location for the racetrack's construction.
Anoeta Sports Complex (Spanish: Ciudad deportiva Anoeta; Basque: Anoetako kirolgunea) is a sports area located at the south of the city of Donostia (San Sebastián), Basque Country of Spain.
Estadio Los Manantiales is a stadium in the town of Alhaurín de la Torre, Málaga, Spain, owned and operated by Alhaurín de la Torre CF.
On 12 January 1930, Swiss Adolf Badrutt jumped 75 meters (246 ft) and set the only official world record on this hill.
Although generally oval in shape, there is a wide variety within this: perfect circles, elongated ovals, rounded rectangles, or irregular shapes with little or no symmetry – but they will have smooth boundaries without sharp corners, almost without exception.
Construction MUGAs are placed into the ground around a sports surface area including natural grass, artificial sports surfaces, sports tiles, tarmac or concrete.
Jack Espey was an American sports executive who served as general manager of the Washington Redskins, Miami Seahawks, and Baltimore Colts.
Its placement near the Pacific Ocean exposed players and fans to chilly temperatures, fog, dew, and particularly wind, all of which grew worse at night.
Gripe Sports Center (Croatian: Športski centar Gripe) is a sports complex located in the Gripe city district of Split, Croatia.
The grounds manager is responsible for the management of staff, money, materials and equipment utilized in maintaining and enhancing a landscaped site including turf, trees, woody ornamentals and flowers, outdoor structure and related facilities.
Even further to this, some professional wrestling matches will stipulate a time limit, within which a wrestler must win if they wish to avoid a time-limit draw.
The Laval University Sports and Physical Education Complex, Pavillon de l'éducation physique et des sports de l'Université Laval PEPS is a sports complex located in Quebec City, Quebec, on the Université Laval campus.
PGMS published guides Grounds Maintenance Estimating Guideline Grounds Maintenance Management Guideline Grounds Management Forms & Job Description Guide Other Key facts About PGMS It is the only membership organization for institutional grounds managers.
Hewitt arranged for the nets to be used in a local game between the Montreal Victorias and the Montreal Shamrocks, after taking inspiration from fellow journalist Francis Nelson, to resolve disputed goals.
These items are allowed to remain on the backside of the mound at the discretion of the umpire, thus reducing the probability that they will affect a live play.
In professional wrestling, the variations are much more numerous and so the announcer may have to explain significantly more to the audience.
When World War II created a lack of playing opportunities, Mulligan worked for the railroad full time, rising to the position of assistant yardmaster.
The grandstand is in essence like a single section of a stadium, but differs from a stadium in that it does not wrap all or most of the way around.
Management In 1962, Toledo surrendered its IHL franchise and Mulligan was appointed commissioner of the league.
Shockwave in August 2002, an event co-promoted by PRIDE and K-1 at the National Stadium, was attended by 91,107 spectators.
See also List of cricket grounds by capacity List of cricket grounds in Australia List of Men's Cricket Grounds in England and Wales List of One Day International cricket grounds List of Test cricket grounds List of Twenty20 International cricket grounds == References ==
History The sports enclave is being constructed in Motera, which is a neighborhood in the northwestern part of Ahmedabad.
If the kick at goal misses and goes dead, play is restarted with a drop out (at the 22-metre line in union and 20 metres in league).
Many other political dignitaries were present at the event including the home minister of India, Amit Shah, and sports minister of India, Kiren Rijiju.
In addition, there must be 1.00 m between courts, both lengthwise and widthwise, resulting in a total of 65.00 m in length (3.00 m between the four courts and 2.00 m at the edges) and 26.00 m in width.
SPICE Convention Centre Opened in 2017, the SPICE Convention Centre is an underground convention centre containing an event space of 78,959 m2 (849,910 sq ft), the largest of all convention centres in Penang.
List of notable ring announcers Fighting Bob Alexander (Boxing, MMA, Kickboxing) Charly Arnolt (UFC) - On April 27, 2024, she became the first female ring announcer in UFC history, temporarily replacing Joe Martínez, who was reportedly ill.
In 1989, the Colorado General Assembly created the Denver Metropolitan Major League Baseball Stadium District, which was empowered to levy a tax in seven metropolitan Denver counties for the construction of Coors Field.
Ultimately, a crowd announced by the University of Michigan as 113,411, at that time the largest in the stadium's history (including football), saw the homestanding Wolverines win 5–0.
Wrigley Field in Chicago, Illinois Shibe Park, also known as Connie Mack Stadium, in Philadelphia Crosley Field in Cincinnati Comiskey Park and New Comiskey Park in Chicago.
Impacts Positive results from United Kingdom local authorities can provide good evidence that placements of anti-vandal MUGAs can reduce anti-social behaviour and increase fitness within early-teen age groups in both cities and parish localities.
Early life and family William Abraham Hewitt was born on May 15, 1875, in Cobourg, Ontario, the son of a clothing merchant.
All of the games on this list were held in stadiums designed for field sports such as association football, gridiron football, and baseball.
Thus it is an important source of information for planners and practitioners from all areas of sports facility construction (municipalities, architects and engineers, universities, trade associations and industrial companies).
Its aims are the exchange of information and ideas regarding testing sports surfaces such as sports hall floors, synthetic surfaces of athletic tracks and artificial turf surfaces.
Ducey was an ice hockey reporter for the Hollywood News during that winter, then a sportswriter for the Edmonton Bulletin in 1931 and 1932.
Two wooden crosspieces, known as the bails, sit in grooves atop the stumps, linking each to its neighbour.
On March 19, 1925, Rickard was convicted of violating a federal law that prevented the interstate transportation of fight films.
Excluding the hotel, the GBI-certified Setia SPICE complex had a gross development value of RM400 million.
References External links Balatonring non-official homepage (in Hungarian, archived) German Blog about Balatonring
Some leisure centres, particularly in Australia, are called aquatic centres, if their main facilities are pools for swimming, diving, and other aquatic sports.
The São Paulo State Government confirmed a five-year partnership, and in December the contract was signed with the São Paulo City Hall and Liberty Media; the event would be called the São Paulo Grand Prix.
In December 2006, Steinar Johannessen stated that he and the federation had given up having a ski jumping hill at Rødkleiva.
After his father's death in 1939, Bolles began a partnership with New Zealand immigrant architect Joseph Francis (or Francisco) Ward (1898–1970) to form Ward & Bolles.
The only jewelry was her large circular spiral-wrapped earrings of 24-carat gold, which along with the blouse indicated she was of higher class.
The British Alpine Hannibal Expedition was an experimental archeology event that took place in 1959.
Brophy argues that the Calendar Circle correlation with Orion's belt occurred between 6400 BC and 4900 BC, matching radio-carbon dates of some campfires in the area.
John Richard Steffy (May 1, 1924 Lancaster, Pennsylvania – November 29, 2007 Bryan, Texas) was an American nautical archaeologist.
White Sands trackway and peopling of North America The earliest compelling evidence for human habitation of the Americas comes from the Clovis complex, between 11,050 and 10,800 14C yr B.P.
Though many exceptions exist in most instances even the oldest dump-bottles are not as old as privy bottles can be.
For example, on the basis of genomic analysis, it has been found that 4000–5000 years ago a small band from the Indian sub-continent traveled to northern Australia and contributed to the genome of people living in the north.
Aunn Komano, introduced in the 16th installment, Hidden Star in Four Seasons, has her ears designed in the shape of magatama.
Location The building in which the bulla was found had been an administrative or royal building that the Babylonians destroyed when they conquered Jerusalem in 586 BCE.
See also References Further reading External links Museum of Stone Tools – Interactive 3D models of stone tool artifacts
If more than one tin is needed, they are arranged in offset and overlapping positions so the complete profile can be rebuilt, typically off-site in laboratory conditions.
Industrial nature is the regeneration of vegetation on industrial sites; the invasion of abandoned or disused industrial sites by colonising species; or new plantings on abandoned, disused or remediated industrial sites.
Archaeologist Ralf Schwarz suggests the structures at the site allowed coordinating an easily judged lunar calendar with the more demanding measurements of a solar calendar through calendar calculations.
Excavations at the site, a collaborative effort by the Israel Antiquities Authority and Hebrew University had unearthed some of the earliest artifacts ever found in Jerusalem dating as far back as the 12th and 11th centuries BCE.
The École itself was closed for a year, but was then re-opened by the new Pope Benedict XV and Lagrange was allowed to return to Jerusalem continue its work.
This method allows the identification of different crystalline phases within the material, which are the different stages in the process of the material while reaching a solid state.
Diving With a Purpose (DWP) is an American non-profit organization aimed at locating and documenting shipwrecks, predominantly those related to the Atlantic slave trade.
It was found in an archaeological excavation together with 33 other seals, figurines and ceramics, in an ancient refuse dump adjacent to the Temple Mount in Jerusalem by Israeli archaeologist Eilat Mazar.
We have quantitative data concerning past earthquakes only from the beginning of the 20th century (as the seismograph was invented only at the end of the 19th century), but humanity has had to deal with earthquakes throughout its existence.
There may also have been a correlation between star wars and solar eclipses; some star wars at Tikal seem to have taken place shortly after eclipses, in one case in July 743 only one day after a solar eclipse.
Most of the teachers of the École Biblique are Dominican friars, and all members of the Dominican priory are involved in the work of the École.
Since 2004, the World Monuments Fund has been working to conserve the temple in partnership with APSARA.
Magatama appear on all sorts of implements of the present-day temple, including amulets, roof tiles, and lanterns.
The obverse side has a polished mirror and the reverse has relief representations of legendary Chinese shén (神 "spirit; god"), xiān (仙 "transcendent; immortal"), and legendary creatures.
It chronicles tributary relations between Queen Himiko of Wa and the Wei court, and records that in 239, Emperor Cao Rui sent presents to Himiko, including "one hundred bronze mirrors".
Astronomical objects Hatotkeur (Spine of the Sky) – Milky Way Constellations: See also Cultural astronomy References External links San Diego Museum of Man Archived 2016-10-10 at the Wayback Machine
At the other extreme are the biblical maximalists who take the Bible at, or almost entirely at, face value.
References External links Wessex Archaeology Waterloo Uncovered The Guardian: Why I love Phil Harding Lectures by Phil Harding for Waterloo Uncovered Project Interview with Phil Harding during Salisbury 2020:Digital Big Weekend Salisbury Sites Blog and Salisbury Uncovered film
Articles and chapters References External links Personal Homepage Sasson's digital publication archive (DiscoverArchive) Vanderbilt Divinity School biography Archived 2010-05-23 at the Wayback Machine
This method of manufacture is believed to have been used to make some of the earliest stone tools ever found, some of which date from over 2 million years ago.
Such analyses reveal information about seismic events that was not historically recorded before the advent of seismometers in the late 19th century.
In 1843, at Corselitze on Falster in Denmark, a bog body unusually buried with ornaments (seven glass beads and a bronze pin) was unearthed and subsequently given a Christian burial.
Some researchers, including Christopher Ehret, have suggested a Nilo-Saharan linguistic affinity for the Nabta people.
In May 2020 the SfS project won the European Union Prize for Cultural Heritage of the Europa Nostra in the category research.
These include alignments of stones that may have indicated the rising of certain stars and a "calendar circle" that indicates the approximate direction of summer solstice sunrise.
"The proper choice of proxies for relevant strontium isotope baselines used for provenance and mobility studies in glaciated terranes – Important messages from Denmark".
The minerals in the material The research method which was based upon the application of mineralogical-petrographic analytical methods to archaeological material findings, mainly pottery, began its first steps in the first half of the twentieth century.
According to University of Chicago scholar Paul Wheatley, it is "an astronomical calendar in stone." Following Angkor's rediscovery by the outside world in the mid-19th century, decades passed before archeologists grasped Phnom Bakheng's historical significance.
The text is similar to, but different from, the Nebuchadnezzar cylinder C34, also known as the Middle Hill cylinder.
Other archaeological evidence, such as repairs, abandonment of an archaeological site or architectural changes, can help in identifying ancient earthquakes.
Likewise with the level above current sea surface of the lowest grooved outcrops on the island, that shows them to be no older than AD 1000 judging from post-glacial shoreline displacement.
The third segment contains Nebuchadnezzar's prayer to Marduk asking that Marduk might continue to extend his rule over the lands.
Virtually all modern scholars agree that the First Temple existed on the Temple Mount by the time of the Babylonian siege, but there is disagreement among contemporary scholars as to when it was built and who built it.
The "Men in a square" rupestric painting located at El Diablito area of El Vallecito depicted a square that aligns with sunlight on the Fall equinox.
