acquired certain Kerr assets, including factories, in 1992 and the Kerr brand of glass home canning jars was absorbed into Alltrista in 1996.
Product recalls 2014: contaminated meat In 2014, Nestle USA recalled 238,000 cases of its Hot Pockets because they may have contained meat from a massive recall of about 8.7 million pounds (3,900,000 kilograms) of meat from "diseased and unsound" animals.
Wine racks made of this material are normally used as ornamental pieces as they come in fluid shapes and can become real pieces of art.
The development of genetically modified food has led to one of the most persistent and divisive debates about mandatory labelling, which is one of the central topics in genetically modified food controversies.
The retort pouch construction varies from one application to another, as a liquid product needs different barrier properties than a dry product, and similarly an acidic product needs different chemical resistance than a basic product.
In 2018, Schanes, Dobernig and Gözet conducted a systematic review of household food waste practices and concluded that households face conflicts between good intentions to prevent food waste and preferences regarding taste, freshness, cleanliness and food safety.
The community garden won £1000 in funding from Aviva Community Fund in 2017, this was used for resources such as seeds to kickstart the growing of edible plants.
The allowable storage time for maize was found to decrease with an increase in mechanical damage (broken/cracked kernels).
In the United States, chains such as Dairy Queen, Carvel, and Tastee-Freez helped popularize soft-serve ice cream.
The user is supposed to search for the wines in his cellar on CellarTracker's database and then enter number of bottles and price (optional).
Anti-brown-bag law in New York, USA In 1967, it was stated that "brown-bagging is the genteel disguise ...
Sometimes called "green" milk jugs, they are not green in color, but rather are claimed to be environmentally friendly.
The tun is the approximate volume of a cylinder with both diameter and height of 42 in (110 cm), as the US gallon was originally a cylinder 7 by 6 in (180 by 150 mm) (diameter × height).
Sorbet (, ) is a frozen dessert made using ice combined with fruit juice, fruit purée, or other ingredients, such as wine, liqueur, or honey.
FOI also supports the country in achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), by promoting food sovereignty and implementing responsible patterns of production and consumption.
Aseptic carton Cartons for liquids can be fabricated from laminates of liquid packaging board (LPB), foil, and polyethylene.
Unlike traditional Nalgene containers, this item can be damaged and potentially ruined by filling it with very hot water.
In 2010 BirdsEye Iglo Group purchased the Italian frozen food business Compagnia Surgelati Italiana SPA from Unilever for €0.8bn, and reunited the Findus brand in Sweden into the group that had previously been managed as one business under Unilever until 2006.
It is traditionally woven by hand and may involve additional physical support from other people, which usually comprise other family members or neighbours.
Production Industrial production of HDPE from ethylene happens through either Ziegler-Natta polymerization or the Phillips slurry process.
History Multilayer packaging was developed in the mid-20th century to overcome the performance limits of single-layer materials.
India Milk bags are commonplace in India, with an estimated 30% of milk sold in the country being packaged this way.
Blackstone Group and BC Partners made an unsuccessful bid of €2.5bn to buy Iglo from Permira in 2012.
With the advent of such facilities close to production areas, harvested fruits and vegetables could be preserved by freezing rather than by canning.
They may have either batter or breadcrumbs around the outside as casing, although the coating is normally breadcrumbs.
Polystyrene copolymers are also produced; these contain one or more other monomers in addition to styrene.
According to legend, it was made to contain the oil presented by the Virgin Mary to St Thomas of Canterbury.
Two principal types of amphorae existed: the neck amphora, in which the neck and body meet at a sharp angle; and the one-piece amphora, in which the neck and body form a continuous curve upwards.
An oenochoe, also spelled oinochoe (Ancient Greek: οἰνοχόη; from Ancient Greek: οἶνος, oînos, "wine", and Ancient Greek: χέω, khéō, lit.
The almonds are white for a wedding, First Communion or Confirmation; pink or light-blue for the birthday or baptism of a girl or boy; red for a graduation; and silver or gold for 25 or 50 year anniversaries.
Rationing during World War II forced her to cut back production due to the restricted availability of quality ingredients.
The service was broadcast on several national news networks and was attended by President Bill Clinton, Vice President Al Gore, Senator Ted Kennedy and Senator John Kerry (who flew non-stop from Burma, where he had been attending a diplomatic function).
Location After the dissolution of the monasteries, the buttery in large houses and colleges became a place for barrels, bottles, or butts of alcoholic drink, and from which they were brought up and served into the Great Hall.
Among these ingredients are white truffles from Alba, located in the Piedmont region of Italy, a place known as the premier origin of some of the most carefully cultivated and highly sought-after white truffles in the world.
In 1991 it entered the Athens Stock Exchange and in 1994 it was by bought by Delta dairy company (Daskalopoulos).
As late as the mid-17th century, French vintners did not use cork stoppers, using instead oil-soaked rags stuffed into the necks of bottles.
Programs Leket to Table: Meal Rescue Leket Israel rescues surplus hot meals and prepared food from 300 suppliers including hotels, army bases, corporate cafeterias, and others, providing a crucial daily source of nutrition to thousands of Israel’s needy.
Baines-Mosier Cabinet Company of Allegan, Michigan, was established in 1906, and had 24 employees in 1915.
However, Alexis Lichine says that low humidity can be a problem because it may cause organic corks to dry prematurely.
In 1803, furniture designer Thomas Sheraton described the piece as: "Cellaret, amongst cabinet makers, denotes a convenience for wine, or wine cistern.
For example, they can contribute up to 40% by weight to intravenous medical bags and up to 80% by weight in medical tubing.
In 1941 this company was acquired by the confectionery manufacturer Freja Marabou and was subsequently renamed Findus Canning Factory.
Because the sleeve prevented use of the weapon's regular sling some troops fashioned ad-hoc slings from rope that could be used over the Pliofilm.
A variety with a sweet cheese filling is served as a starter or main dish in dairy meals, specifically on Shavuot.
Recent studies have shown that bruchids sealed in PICS bags do not die from asphyxiation, but rather from dehydration.
After slaughter, care must be taken not to infect the meat through contact with any of the various sources of infection in the abattoir, notably the hides and soil adhering to them, water used for washing and cleaning, the dressing implements and the slaughterhouse personnel.
See also List of ice cream brands References External links Official website Guild of Fine Food video reviewing the product
See also Dabbawala Lunch box Sagejū, historical Japanese picnic container set to carry bento The Lunchbox (2013 Indian film) References Bibliography J.
Whipped cream is often used for frosting, as a complement to the two other textures, and because many typical frostings will not adhere successfully to frozen cake.
Criminal charges Involuntary manslaughter charges against Levesque and Barnes were initially dismissed, reinstated on appeal, and finally dismissed in January 2010.
Production of Pliofilm was hampered during World War II because the Japanese occupation of much of Southeast Asia cut off much of the rubber supply.
However, Linda Jones Roccos suggests that the maidens wearing both peplos and mantle implies they are kanephoroi, which would be consistent with the evidence of contemporary vase painting and wedding iconography.
This gradual degradation is desirable for a support structure, because it gradually transfers the load to the body (e.g., to the bone) as that area heals.
After taking apart the device, venture capitalist Ben Einstein considered the press to be "an incredibly complicated piece of engineering", which likely arose from a lack of cost constraints during the design process.
Praeger created the California Veggie Burger, which contains carrots, spinach, peas, edamame, and oat bran.
Totino's was founded as a restaurant in the 1950s in Minneapolis, Minnesota, which expanded to frozen foods in the 1960s.
Depending on the need, this paperboard can be waxed or coated with polyethylene to form a moisture barrier.
The Bocksbeutel (German: [ˈbɔksˌbɔɪ̯tl̩] ) is a type of wine bottle with the form of a flattened ellipsoid.
In another myth, the cornucopia was created when Heracles (Roman Hercules) wrestled with the river god Achelous and ripped off one of his horns; river gods were sometimes depicted as horned.
The first baleen (suqqaq, qupitalik, savigaaq in Iñupiaq) basket (aguummak, aguummaq in Iñupiaq) was made at Utqiagvik after the termination of commercial whaling.
These paper and plastic containers are lighter, cheaper and safer to both manufacture and ship to consumers.
Men of wealth had as many as three cellarettes at a time as a status symbol, not necessarily indicating one was a heavy drinker.
Timeline 1992: Weight Watchers Smart Ones line launched as a sub-brand of Weight Watchers® frozen meals.
In Arab countries they are called safartas (سفرطاس, from Turkish "sefer tası" meaning 'travel bowls').
However, the CIVC still recommends storing Champagne on its side, stating that: Champagne is ready for drinking upon release, matured to perfection in the producer’s cellars.
After the Korean War, with the introduction of condensed milk, syrup, and chocolate from the United States, together with the mass migration of Korean immigrants who brought their culinary cuisine to the US, Korean bingsu began to be more diverse.
Due to its porosity, fired earthenware, with a water absorption of 5-8%, must be glazed to be watertight.
Food safety regulations limit the amount of pathogens such as Listeria to safe limits (100 CFU/g in Europe).
Health concern Plastic materials are widely used in the food industry due to their low price and convenience; however, there has been an increased health concern because of the possibility of releasing undesirable chemicals from plastic materials into food products.
Feeding Hong Kong is regarded as a food recycling operations, rather than a welfare group, so it does not receive public funding and relied on help from volunteers and donors.
Initial Uno Express locations were inside BJ's Wholesale Club stores, by 2012 all had closed and converted to Dunkin' Donuts or Subway locations.
In the Book of Judges, Gideon gives empty pitchers containing lamps to three hundred men divided into three companies.
Medical use Thermal pharmaceutical bags are designed to transport temperature-sensitive medications, protecting them from damaging temperatures, shocks, and light.
Environmental issues Foam takeout containers entirely made out of polystyrene foam affect the environment as they do not biodegrade easily.
The packaging consists of a natural soft membrane (made from food particles, alginate/chitosan, and nutritive ions) that encloses the food or drink, optionally protected by a hard shell that is edible or biodegradable.
As early as 1908, the Chico Ice and Cold Storage company in California began to offer rental locker space.
In 2007, the site of the first Lender's bagel bakery was dedicated as a playground; it was named after one of Harry Lender's sons: “Murray Lender Playground”.
Scientific workflow systems assist scientists and programmers with tracking their data through all transformations, analyses, and interpretations.
In Canada, the brand Le Sieur has been used since at least 1964, instead of Le Sueur – presumably to avoid the implications of the French word sueur (i.e., "sweat").
The role was given to a virgin selected from amongst the aristocratic or Eupatrid families of Athens whose purity and youth was thought essential to ensure a successful sacrifice.
Some believe this re-bottling exposes the champagne to greater oxidation and therefore results in an inferior product compared to champagne which remains in the bottle in which it was fermented.
In side-by-side comparisons for white wines, one panel had shown preference for non-corked wines at the level of 20 ng/L of TCA, while another study found the "rejection threshold" to be between 3.1 and 3.7 ng/L.
During the Tang dynasty, ewers fashioned from glazed earthenware bore illustrations of Persian textiles and metalwork and depicted increased cultural diversity in populated Chinese cities.
In the 1990s, Russia started importing foreign brands of ice cream, and the state standards were dropped.
History Gastronorm originated in Switzerland during the 1960s when various associations gathered and agreed on standard dimensions for movable kitchen inserts and containers such as pans, trays, wire racks as well as other kitchen utensils and equipment.
One Sam's Club store reported fitting 224 square gallon jugs in an area that only held 80 traditional one gallon jugs.
In 2021 Iron Gate launched Canada's first auction dedicated to wine and spirits and as of YE2022 became the largest wine auction in the country with auctions frequently hammering over $1,000,000 per sale.
Form While the term "olive jar" was used in archaeology from early in the 20th century, John Mann Goggin created the first typology for olive jars in the mid-20th century.
Availability Fowler's Vacola products are still produced by the original Fowlers Vacola company, and are available from some hardware stores, and directly from the company via their online store.
Bear canisters are seeing increased popularity in areas where bears have become habituated to human presence, and are required in some places, such as Yosemite National Park in the United States.
TCA is studied in detail and considered to be the main source of the issue (in some surveys, the TCA was present in all the bottles assessed to be tainted).
The dessert takes the form of a ball that is composed of two or more flavors of gelato, often with melted chocolate inserted into the center (following the original recipe) or alternatively, with either fruit syrup or frozen fruit—typically raspberry, strawberry or cherry—in the center.
Another myth suggests that Charles I of England was so impressed by the "frozen snow" that he offered his own ice cream maker a lifetime pension in return for keeping the formula secret, so that ice cream could be a royal prerogative.
The oldest known document containing an image of an hórreo is the Cantigas de Santa Maria (song CLXXXVII) written during the reign of Alfonso X of Castile in the 13th century.
In other countries Taiwan The bento made its way to Taiwan in the first half of the 20th century during the Japanese colonial period and remains popular to the present day.
Among Agnes Blackwell Herrick's papers was a copy of the Paris Embassy's Dinner Party Record from 1921 to 1922.
With one hand on the outside and one on the inside, the potter's hands would press together and form the upward curve of the hydria.
In areas where grain has always been sold immediately after harvest, storage areas may not exist for PICS bags.
The wine-storage area of the buttery, in keeping with the higher value of its contents, was often more richly decorated to reflect the higher status of its function.
One jar from those wrecks, containing pitch, had a thin piece of leather placed over the opening with a cork stopper inserted over it, so that the leather may have acted as a gasket.
Wine bottles are traditionally sealed with a cork, but screw-top caps are becoming popular, and there are several other methods used to seal a bottle.
See also Frozen food Canned food Cold chain References External links How Frozen Vegetables are Made
Disposable containers are often made of paper or paperboard, plastic (including plastic foam), or aluminum.
Route 169 an enormous wooden sign of the Jolly Green Giant, along with the Little Green Sprout, is visible with the caption "Welcome to the Valley." Sixty miles (97 km) further south on US 169, in the city of Blue Earth, Minnesota, stands a 55-foot (17 m) fiberglass statue of the Jolly Green Giant.
From the same source come the German Krapfen ("deep-fried pastry") and its East Central German dialectal variant Kräppel, as well the Silesian Krepel ("doughnut").
They continued to be used through the first half of the 20th century; however, usage began to decline with the introduction of free-flowing salt in 1911, and they have been almost entirely replaced by salt shakers.
Losses are still fairly high with this technique, though it has been shown in some instances to keep tubers for 2–4 months.
The USDA lists the cutoffs for broken maize as anything that falls through a 12/64 round-hole sieve, and broken soybeans as anything that falls through an 8/64 round-hole sieve.
The bonding together of the fibres during production improves not only the strength, porosity and elasticity, but also the tear-resistance.
In 1921, the Eskimo Pie chocolate bar was invented in Iowa by a pharmacy owner named Chris Nelson, who was inspired by a boy named Douglas Ressenden who could not decide between candy and ice cream; a patent was awarded in 1922, but invalidated in 1928.
Modern innovations in the United States Congregations and synods belonging to the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America have made Easter baskets to be given to needy children or elderly persons.
Beginning around 8500 BC, however, they were moved inside houses, and by 7500 BC special rooms were used for storage.
Machines for producing these do not require a pressure chamber, and as a result, they are much cheaper and easier to maintain due to their simpler mechanics.
The interior diameter of an average small qullqa was 3.23 metres (10.6 ft); larger qullqas have a diameter of around 3.5–4.0 metres (11.5–13.1 ft).
Security researchers are interested in data provenance because it can analyze suspicious data and make large opaque systems transparent.
Over the years King of Pops has made almost 500 flavors, most of which are between three and five ingredients.
Swanson (1879–1949) was a Swedish immigrant who worked on a farm in Blair, Nebraska, until he moved to Omaha.
Moisture control Grain must be kept away from moisture for as long as possible to preserve it in good condition and prevent mold growth.
Other non-luxury ingredients include milk, sugar, egg yolk, rice and rice malt, black truffle, brewed alcohol, cashew nuts and unspecified dairy products.
Recently the bottle has become a standard unit of volume to describe sales in the wine industry, measuring 750 millilitres (26.40 imp fl oz; 25.36 US fl oz).
The statue was first unveiled in 1978 and was set on its permanent base on July 6, 1979, at 43°39′02″N 94°5′46″W.
Many have survived, some being renovated to commemorate the practice, while others have been dismantled or left to decay.
Measuring Broken/Cracked Kernels There are many methods available for determining mechanical grain damage.
Business development By 2001 the retail value of the brand was over £50 million and it had become one of the top 100 brands in Britain.
In 2004 a joint Swedish-Danish research team found a statistical association between allergies in children and indoor air levels of DEHP and BBzP (butyl benzyl phthalate), which is used in vinyl flooring.
Some stands remain in the countryside as historical features, but most have been dismantled or left to decay.
An innovative picnic hamper advertised for American families in 1953 was designed to clamp over the seat at the back of the family car.
Manufacturers claim that this rectangular design has cut water use by 67% to 70%, according to one dairy, since there are no crates to be cleaned; the absence of dirty crates also reduces the risk of jugs carrying contamination.
The British dominated the world shipping industry and began fitting their ships for cold air containers, and built new refrigerated steamers.
The circular interior of the game larder at Holkham Hall in Norfolk is lined with alabaster; designed by Samuel Wyatt, the octagonal building dates from 1803.
There is also a translation into Koine Greek known as the Septuagint, made in the last few centuries BCE.
Up until this point, frozen salads had existed, but they were only readily available to those who could afford and host large salt and ice freezers and to those who could visit the expensive hotels and restaurants that would serve them.
1 July 2002, https://www.ift.org/news-and-publications/food-technology-magazine/issues/2002/july/features/the-paper-beverage-carton-past-and-future.
Dip & Squeeze is the brand name of a type of packaging for tomato ketchup used by Heinz Tomato Ketchup.
Commercial food logistics Grain and beans are stored in tall grain elevators, almost always at a railhead near the point of production.
The dough is allowed to ferment for a few days, before part of the dough is cooked and then mixed with uncooked dough.
Operation Most of the goods in the storehouse are purchased with fast offering funds or produced on church-owned agricultural property.
In January 2025, the corporate About Us page claimed locations in Honduras and Qatar but listed foreign locations only in Saudi Arabia and India.
A Chick-Fil-A executive said that some consumers at the chain were hoarding the packets after they were introduced.
It could be made thinner by stretching whilst being heated and thicknesses of 0.00075–0.025 inches (0.019–0.635 mm) were sold.
This is causing the paper to elongate 4% in machine direction and 10% in cross direction before busting.
Lean Cuisine is a brand of frozen entrées and dinners sold in the United States by Nestlé Prepared Foods, in Canada by Nestlé Canada, and in Australia by Vesco (under a licensing agreement with Nestlé).
Similarly, the development of Sheffield plate (18th century), then electroplating (19th century), led to mass production of affordable silver-plated wares, including salt cellars.
Infestation by insects such as the maize weevil can sometimes be easier to identify visually, but difficult to quantify on a large scale.
Solar direct-drive refrigerators don't require batteries, instead using thermal energy to solar power.
834/2007 of 28 June 2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 — on the provision of food information to consumers.
An octagonal room was constructed for a wine library and a round domed room was added in the complex's center.
With flexible packaging (plastic films, foils, laminates, etc), the choice of materials and process conditions are an important decision for packaging engineers.
In the late 2010s, during a period of long stretches of dry weather" on the Island, potato growers in the area around Spring Valley, Prince Edward Island began to construct large holding ponds of water "seeking to improve potato yields".
Pliny identified three different types of coopers: ordinary coopers, wine coopers and coopers who made large casks.
In February 2011, Green Mountain announced an agreement with Dunkin' Donuts to make Dunkin’ Donuts coffee available in single-serve K-Cup pods for use with Keurig Single-Cup Brewers.
Many different varieties of frozen and chilled ready meals are now generally available in the UK, including "gourmet" recipes, organic and vegetarian dishes, traditional British and foreign cuisine, and smaller children's meals.
Wafer ice cream vendors also sell the same blocks of ice cream on slices of multicoloured bread, on cones or in cups instead of sandwiched between wafers.
Revival efforts by Indian Railways and criticism In 2004, the Indian Railways (then under the leadership of minister Laloo Prasad Yadav) attempted to revive the use of kulhars for tea and other beverages sold at railway stations and aboard trains.
Memorials A memorial service and procession for the firefighters were held in Worcester's Centrum Centre on December 9, 1999.
GrapeStories relied on the same database as CellarTracker, but was intended to be a more user-friendly approach to tracking wine and sharing wine experiences as well as providing a better interface.
In its final form, the thin cork liner created a gas-tight seal, while the metal cap held it in place with a series of crimped "flutes" that locked under the bottle's head.
History While ice cream sandwiches have been sold in New York City since the 1890s, New York lawyer Richard LaMotta created the Chipwich in 1978.
The Gatt agreements signed in Marrakesh in 1994 required the EU to reduce its export aid, and Doux lost half its export market.
History Poire belle Hélène was invented around 1864 by Auguste Escoffier, who created it as a tribute to the popularity of Offenbach’s operetta La belle Hélène.
The technology is the result of a project that started in 1997 and staffed by a team of 55 researchers with a budget cost of 15 billion won (US$49.2 million).
The pitcher of Marwan Ibn Mohammad, on display at the Museum of Islamic Art in Cairo, predates the 8th century.
Steel cans also extend the product's shelf-life, allowing longer sell-by and use-by dates and reducing waste.
Often, it is made of jute and has a content of 60 kilograms (130 pounds); this type of bag originated in Brazil and became a worldwide standard.
Medical use Some studies have suggested that wrapping premature babies in plastic wrap immediately after birth may help prevent low temperature before arrival to the neonatal intensive care unit.
As the volume is reduced during the reaction (PVC is denser than VCM), water is continually added to the mixture to maintain the suspension.
History The company started from a small factory on Balakong Road, Selangor with only 5 workers, producing a wide range of ice cream such as ice cream sticks, ice cream in cups, ice cream in cones, ice cream in tubs and ice cream with wafers but only limited to Malaysia during that time.
An 1897 recipe published in The Boston Cooking-School Cook Book by American writer Fannie Farmer was a pineapple–chestnut ice cream with candied fruit and raisins, served with maraschino syrup.
Variations are countless, but ice cream, flan, and fruit in syrup (peach or pineapple) are its staple ingredients.
Commercial heat sources for self-heating food packaging use an exothermic (heat releasing) reaction, for which there are several common formulations.
Together, FOI, along with its donors and volunteers, has distributed 1,246 tons or 88,095 food packages to FOI clients, including children, victims of natural disasters, the elderly, informal workers, and others.
Instead, it is the information contained within the label that can provide consumers with such knowledge.
The screens passage generally had two or three doors on the side opposite its entrances into the Great Hall, which led, respectively, to the buttery, kitchen, and pantry, each of which formed separate household departments.
The simple purpose of the stand was to facilitate collection of milk churns by cart or lorry and so were built at a convenient height for easy transfer.
ConAgra sells a broad array of dishes through its Healthy Choice brand, including frozen dinners, side dishes, cold cuts and other meats, canned soups, ice cream, bread, pasta sauce, and popcorn.
Name variations In Canada, corn dogs are often called "Pogos" after the popular brand produced by Conagra.
Busto-Zapico In a paper published in 2020, Miguel Busto-Zapico analysed 40 jars found in Spain, all made in Seville.
Development and delays When Grepper launched the Kickstarter campaign for the Coolest, the company planned to deliver to backers their Coolest reward in February 2015.
However, the problem with an icebox was that the cabinet housing was large, but the actual refrigerated space was relatively small.
Charitable hamper There is a long tradition of community and social philanthropy and charity related to hampers, in which persons or community groups donate to needy people a hamper of food, clothing, toiletries, cleaning products, or other household necessities, to assist with their family economy.
The side branches mean that its molecules are less tightly packed and less crystalline, and therefore its density is lower.
Most champagne houses are unable to carry out secondary fermentation in bottles larger than a magnum due to the difficulty in riddling large, heavy bottles.
Sweeteners, flavorings, and colorings are then mixed in, and the yogurt mixture is cooled at a temperature of −6 to −2 °C (28 °F).
Jeremiah 24 is a part of the Eighth prophecy (Jeremiah 21-24) in the section of Prophecies of Destruction (Jeremiah 1-25).
The average weight of an empty 750 mL wine bottle is 500 g (and can range from 300 to 900 g), which makes the glass 40% of the total weight of the full bottle.
According to estimates from the Aluminum Association, a large amount of aluminium remains unrecycled in the US, where roughly $700 million worth of cans end up in landfills each year.
When a stream of water is injected into the bottle and impacts the punt, it is distributed throughout the bottom of the bottle and removes residues.
It allows the sterile packaging of a wide variety of food and drink handled by aseptic processing and is used as an alternative to traditional industrial canning methods.
This would reduce the cost of transportation and its carbon footprint, and provide a local market for recycled green glass.
Other artistic depictions were provided by Botticelli (Banchetto per Nastagio degli Onesti) and Ghirlandaio (Buonomini di San Martino and The Birth of John the Baptist).
This is a common approach in industrial food production, but concerns about health hazards associated with trans fats have led to their strict control in several jurisdictions.
Purpose A 1852 publication lists other produce being sold in punnets in British markets, including sea kale, mushrooms, small salad and tomatoes.
They are born within social contexts of poverty and unemployment, as subsistence organizations or "popular micro-associations that developed to satisfy a basic and functional need", hunger.
Incineration: PLA can be incinerated without producing chlorine-containing chemicals or heavy metals because it contains only carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen atoms.
On August 28, 2006, it was confirmed that Unilever had agreed to the sale of the UK brand, held since the late 1930s, to private equity house Permira for £1.2bn.
See also Internet of things – Internet-like structure connecting everyday physical objects Value proposition – Promise of value to be delivered, communicated, and acknowledged References External links Official website at the Wayback Machine (archived 2017-08-24)
The preforms can be transported and stored by the thousand in a much smaller space than would finished containers, for the second stage to be carried out on the user site on a 'just in time' basis.
Direct contact freezing puts the product directly in contact with the refrigerant, while indirect contact freezing uses a plate in between.
They chopped up the slivers, added flour and seasoning, then pushed the mash through holes and sliced off pieces of the extruded mixture.
On June 1, 2023, Tupperware stopped supplying an independent sales force in the UK and Ireland and moved fully to selling online and via the shopping TV channel Ideal World, shortly before Ideal World itself went out of business in early July 2023.
See also Fly fishing Weaving (mythology) Basket weaving Lobster pot References External links Northumbria Basketry Group Decorate A Wicker Clothes Basket The dictionary definition of creel at Wiktionary: for its etymology
It is based on a recipe introduced in 1839 by the cook of a German nobleman, Prince Hermann Ludwig Heinrich von Pückler-Muskau.
In July, the city council unanimously approved a temporary moratorium to permit Little Free Libraries on private property.
1998: Heinz consolidates the Weight Watchers frozen meals under the Weight Watchers® Smart Ones® brand name.
In Okinawa, Japan, where awamori is made, the traditional system similar to the solera is called shitsugi.
CaAlg2 + 2NaCl → 2NaAlg + CaCl2 Because it is a single-strand polymer, alginate can be depolymerized (broken into smaller units) by a variety of chemical reactions.
The concept of a food container has existed for a long time, but it was not until people began using tobacco tins to carry meals in the early 20th century, followed by the use of lithographed images on metal, that the containers became a staple of youth, and a marketable product.
The Food Standards Agency was reported as supporting the change, provided the food had been stored correctly up to that time.
See also Corrugated box Tetra Pak Elopak Notes References Yam, K.L., "Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology", John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6 The Paper Beverage Carton: Past and Future.
In his autobiography, The Time of My Life, Hedberg recounts how Wyman was receptive to the idea – on the condition that funds for the project were raised locally, and that the company had to give approval to the final design.
The main ingredient of bingsu was natural ice in the past, but later, artificial ice was produced, and high-quality sweeteners were developed.
All DVD releases can be purchased on the Cartoon Network Shop, and the individual episodes can be downloaded from both the iTunes Store and Amazon.com.
Additionally, in Australia the term "silverpillow" is used to refer to the habit of inflating the empty bag and using it as a headrest.
The proposed idea of a smart fridge that could keep track of its contents with "a bar-code reader within the fridge" had become popular in various technology newspapers.
Creels in Scotland The word creel is also used in Scotland to refer to a device used to catch lobsters and other crustaceans.
However, it is normal for meat to lose 1–2 percent of its weight due to this liquid loss, while anything more is considered excessive.
Hoosier Cabinet First developed in the early 1900s by the Hoosier Manufacturing Company in New Castle, Indiana, and popular into the 1930s, the Hoosier cabinet and its many imitators soon became an essential fixture in American kitchens.
In India some company brands like Hindustan Unilever sell frozen dessert made from vegetable oils rather than pure milk.
The court ruled that Mason's delay in protecting his patent indicated he had abandoned his invention in the intervening years between 1859 and 1868 and had forfeited his patent.
Campaigns Love For Planet Campaign By recycling the collected airtight containers, 'upcycling eco-bag' was introduced to practice continuous resource circulation.
The defining characteristic of a Ramly Burger is the patty itself wrapped in an omelette and topped with several condiments, which may include ketchup, mayonnaise, chili sauce, Maggi seasoning, and/or Worcestershire sauce, depending on the vendor.
The building was constructed for $100,000 (equivalent to $3,600,000 in 2025) and could store 500 train-car loads of perishable items at temperatures between 10 and 60 °F (−12 and 16 °C).
"Nova sloga" has the exclusive rights to exploit water in the field Mivela in Veluće, eight kilometers from Trstenik on an area of 4,125 square kilometers.
Milton was employed as an engineer at Dairy Farmers when the company asked him to develop a new crate to replace the existing wire and wooden designs, which were prone to bending and breaking, damaging glass bottles and interrupting automated handling lines.
Procopio obtained French citizenship, and a royal license from Louis XIV, making him the sole producer of the frozen dessert in the kingdom.
Bol shared his idea with his partner, Rick Brooks, and together they built and installed more of the bookhouses in different areas of the Midwestern United States.
In addition to purchasing food equipment, Mikoyan brought many food recipes from the United States, one of which was ice cream.
History Its first mentions come from Ancient Greece, where, in parties called Bacchanalia, dedicated to the god Bacchus by the vintage of this drink, the sacrifice of the goat was offered, following which the wineskin could be made that would conserve the wine.
Translation, introduction and commentary, Johns Hopkins University Press, Baltimore and London, 1983.
It has a light, airy texture likened to mousse or light cake that is created by whipping air into the mixture before freezing.
In many restaurants, it is a station which is generally an entry-level cooking position within a restaurant, as it often involves preparing salads or other smaller plates which can be heated and quickly plated without significant experience.
For instance, suppose the solera consists of three barrels of wine, and half of each barrel is transferred once a year.
Earlier, the Coppes brothers had a sawmill business, a box manufacturing factory, and a furniture manufacturing company.
It is much stronger and lighter than common plaster-of-Paris ornaments, and is not so liable to chip or break if struck with anything.
Older unused lids should be discarded, as sealing compound is only good for about five years from date of manufacture.
Most wine bottles standards have a bore (inner neck) diameter of 18.5 mm at the mouth of the bottle and increase to 21 mm before expanding into the full bottle.
History Juicero was founded in San Francisco, California, in 2013 by Doug Evans, who served as CEO until October 2016, when former president of Coca-Cola North America Jeff Dunn took over the position.
Points are added for "healthy" nutrients including fibre, protein and fruit, vegetable, nut and legume content; whilst points are deducted for "unhealthy" nutrients: energy, saturated fat, sodium and sugar.
In addition, the batteries require maintenance, must be replaced approximately every three years, and must be disposed of as hazardous wastes possibly resulting in lead pollution.
The company exports over 50% of its products to more than 70 countries, with key markets in the Middle East, the European Union, and Africa, with over 25 logistics hubs in Ukraine and abroad.
The first, "Food Chain", was helmed by noted Japanese animator Masaaki Yuasa, and was entirely animated by Yuasa's own studio.
These products differ from prepackaged dehydrated noodles in a number of ways: in flavor, in texture, and in that they normally come packaged with ingredients besides the noodles, such as vegetables, meat, and soup stock.
The most exotic designs were produced in the early years of the 20th century, just prior to the First World War.
As of 2022, Newell manufactures canning jars under the brand names Ball, Bernardin, Golden Harvest, and Kerr.
At the same time, the Bordeaux-style bottle (bordolese) was becoming more popular among wine producers, displacing the fiasco.
Note that a 252-gallon tun of wine has a mass of approximately 2,060 lb (930 kg), between a short ton (2,000 lb (910 kg)) and a long ton (2,240 lb (1,020 kg)).
Catalonia In certain areas of the Pyrenees in Catalonia a type of olla, known locally as tupí, is used as container for the preparation of tupí, a certain type of cheese.
It is commonly made of metal or plastic, is reasonably airtight and often has a handle for carrying.
Scholars have noted that as food systems scaled up and grew more impersonal, regulators across regions—from Europe and North America to East Asia—began using labels to simulate the trust once derived from local, interpersonal food markets.
Food insecure individuals, who live in low-income communities experience higher rates of chronic disease, leading to healthcare costs which create more financial hardships.
The game larder at Abbotsford House in Selkirkshire, built by John Smith of Darnick in 1851, takes the form of a circular castle, with crenellations.
The brand name "Lean Cuisine" is considered by the FDA as a nutrient content claim, so all Lean Cuisine items are required to meet the "lean" criteria of less than 10 g fat, 4.5 g or less saturated fat, and less than 95 mg cholesterol.
Still named the Wooster Company, the new group began to produce rubber household products under the Rubbermaid brand name.
Toppings were then added, and three types of tapioca pearls: glass pearls for crunchiness, Thai tea pearls for color and aroma, and black tea pearls for texture and sweetness.
Frozen yogurt (also known as frogurt or by the tradename Froyo; ) is a frozen dessert made with yogurt and sometimes other dairy and non-dairy products.
The combination of flavors varies; Anna Hezel, writing for Bon Appétit, describes a combination of orange, lime, and raspberry, while Baskin-Robbins sells a version with orange, raspberry, and pineapple.
Carl von Linde, an engineering professor at the Technological University Munich in Germany, patented an improved method of liquefying gases in 1876, creating the first reliable and efficient compressed-ammonia refrigerator.
History Bingsu has similar origins to sorbet, with fruit- and milk-flavored ice-based confectionary documented as far back as 400 BCE.
One inch (2.5 cm) of gravel covering the floor periodically sprinkled with a little water was recommended to retain the desired humidity.
The Central Warehouse is a former refrigeration warehouse building in North Albany, a neighborhood of Albany, New York, and considered a landmark of the community and city.
Europe In the United Kingdom, Ross Frozen Foods once produced "Oven Crunchies", although generic versions remain widely available.
Once the full churns had been removed they were replaced by the haulier with empty ones for refilling by the next collection time.
Glass is a relatively heavy packing material and wine bottles use quite thick glass, so the tare weight of a full wine bottle is a relatively high proportion of its gross weight.
To counter the shortcomings of the 1971 law, the VDP nowadays classifies the best vineyards by its own rules into 'VDP.Grosse Lage' (Grand cru) and 'VDP.Erste Lage' (Premier cru) based on 19th century Prussian tax maps.
The brand was later applied to waffle mix, potato chips, and eventually to the frozen waffle for which it is primarily known today.
People are referred to the food banks by professionals such as doctors, social services, Citizens Advice and police, and receive a food bank voucher.
Carbonated slushie machines often freeze to a temperature well below the freezing point of water, but the combination of pressure up to 40 psi (2.8 bar), the carbon dioxide mixture that freezes at −80 °C (−112 °F), the sugar, and the constant stirring prevent the mass from freezing solid.
In the American television sitcom Friends (1994-2004), Helena Handbasket is the drag name of Charles Bing, the gay father of main character Chandler Bing.
Bagel Bites are available in six flavors: Cheese & Pepperoni; Three Cheese; Cheese, Sausage & Pepperoni; Mozzarella Cheese; Supreme; Cheesy Garlic Bread; and Extreme Nacho.
This is known as a "single nougat" in Scotland, with a double nougat (pronounced nugget) having nougat wafers on both sides.
These types of smaller tin boxes are sometimes reused to store items, or to create kits, such as a survival kit.
A granary, also known as a grain house and historically as a granarium in Latin, is a post-harvest storage building primarily for grains or seeds.
Coffee beans are usually transported in large jute sacks, while coffee sold to consumers may be packaged as beans or ground coffee in a small, sealed plastic bag.
Several technologies such as annealing, adding nucleating agents, forming composites with fibers or nano-particles, chain extending and introducing crosslink structures have been used to enhance the mechanical properties of PLA polymers.
They are often used for small, delicate fruits like strawberries, raspberries, and blueberries, which require careful packaging to prevent bruising.
Uses Chub packs are used to pack semi-solid materials such as: sausage ground beef and ground turkey dog food cheese spreads frostings bread dough cookie dough creamed corn drywall compound explosive slurries See also Tube (container) Notes References Yam, K.
The verb " to hamper," to entangle, obstruct, hinder, especially used of disturbing the mechanism of a lock or other fastening so as to prevent its proper working, is of doubtful origin.
Oceania In Australia and New Zealand, they are known as "potato gems", "potato royals", or "potato pom-poms".
These repeated visits drew public attention and contributed significantly to the dessert's reputation and commercial expansion.
The removal of wine from the flexible bag without adding air to fill the vacated space greatly reduces the oxidation of the wine during dispensing.
Japan In early 20th century, Fujii Rin'emo travelled to United States to study Westerned styled food.
Safe storage times vary by food and may depend on how the food was handled before being placed in the refrigerator.
The Totinos sold their frozen pizza business to the Pillsbury Company in 1975, where Rose Totino was named as vice-president.
History According to ConAgra's official corporate history, Healthy Choice came into being after then-ConAgra CEO Charles "Mike" Harper suffered a heart attack in 1985.
In 2019, an estimated 2.4 million meals (meat and two side dishes) will be collected and redistributed to 80+ NPO partners throughout the country (an average of 46,000+ hot meals weekly) including soup kitchens, homeless shelters, last chances schools, and others.
From the second half of the 19th century, milk has been packaged and delivered in reusable and returnable glass bottles.
The emulsion is turned into foam by incorporating air cells which are frozen to form dispersed ice cells.
Food preservation, storage, and transport, including timely delivery to consumers, are important to food security, especially for the majority of people worldwide who rely on others to produce their food.
Orzas were usually made with the same paste as ''botijas, making it difficult to assign many sherds to a particular style of container.
The toast may include cheese on one or both sides, similar to an open-faced grilled cheese sandwich.
Uruguay In Uruguay, an ice cream sandwich (sánguche helado) or triple sandwich (sánguche triple) is typically a neapolitan ice cream (helado triple) sandwich prepared with wafers such as the one in the image.
To create extra volume and smooth consistency, the air is incorporated into the yogurt as the mixture is agitated.
Overland cattle drives moved large herds to the railheads in Kansas, where cattle cars brought live animals eastward.
Disposal of discarded refrigerators is regulated, often mandating the removal of doors for safety reasons.
Cortellazzi (1952) of Marmirolo were the first to produce muselets (or wirehoods) in Italy, the brilliant idea of A.
In the 1980s, TV dinners, quiches, flans, sandwiches, pizzas, ethnic snacks, pastas, and soups were kept chilled.
Indian River Farms Indian River Farms, which is also owned Irving group of companies, is managed by Elizabeth Irving, who is a fifth generation family member.
Smith's Pies bakeries serving the Northeast United States by 1930, including two bakeries in Pennsylvania: one in York, and one in the Logan neighborhood of Philadelphia.
Fruits and vegetables would be placed directly on the slatted shelves to encourage airflow around them.
'truffle'), also known as tartufo di Pizzo, is an Italian dessert of gelato originating in the comune (municipality) of Pizzo, Calabria.
The emergence of large-scale ranching, the role of the railroads, refrigeration, and entrepreneurial skills.
raised concerns for groundwater sustainability." In their January 2020 article in the journal Water, the authors write that an "inventory of groundwater is necessary for efficient water resource management, especially in relation to growing groundwater demands for agricultural use.
The concern about microwave popcorn bags has increased in terms of the waste and their harmful impacts on the environment.
Variations In 1969, the recently invented microwave oven enabled the Hungarian gastrophysicist Nicholas Kurti to produce a reverse baked Alaska (also called a "Frozen Florida")—a frozen shell of meringue filled with hot liquor.
Davide Andreani of Italy is in the Guinness Book of World Records for having the largest collection of soda cans of one specific brand in the world, with over 20,000 cans in his collection.
In February 2023, the Uno Foods division, including the production facility in Brockton, Massachusetts, was sold to Great Kitchen Food Company, a property of Brynnwood Partners.
In rest of the European Union, a trade organization called European Ice Cream Association calls for minimum dairy fat content of 5%.
Also during this time, the company bought its first freezing machines in the US and initiated the development of a trading frozen poultry to the Middle East.
Café liégeois is a French cold dessert made from lightly sweetened coffee, coffee-flavoured ice cream and Chantilly cream.
Both men and women wore necklaces, bracelets and pendants made of shell, stone, bone and dried berries.
1850-1914." Food and globalization: consumption, markets, and politics in the modern world (Berg, 2008) pp: 153–73.
In the gospels of Mark and Luke, Jesus tells two of his disciples to go into the city of Jerusalem, where they will meet a man carrying a pitcher of water (Greek: κεράμιον ὕδατος : kerámion hydatos), and instructs them to follow him to locate the upper room to be used for the Last Supper.
Punita (2020) Tiffin: An Untold Story Further reading Caldicott, Carolyn; Caldicott, Chris (17 August 2014).
It is also essential that grain intended to be stored in PICS bags be thoroughly dried prior to storage to prevent mold growth and grain rot.
It was cheap enough to be disposable, selling for just twenty-five cents per gross, a fraction of the cost of reusable stoppers.
Schwan quickly halted the production and sale of the company's ice cream and began a public-awareness campaign asking people not to eat Schwan's ice cream products.
The contents of the hamper may be decanted regularly into larger containers or a cart, wagon, or truck.
Since 1988, Tee Yih Jia started the expansion of its business activities beyond its initial markets into countries like China, Taiwan and the USA.
Other projects competing with PICS bags to prevent insect-induced post-harvest grain losses are other forms of hermetically sealed containers, such as the Grain-pro bag.
Campers making a campfire in the same location time after time can deplete the available wood in the area, which impacts the natural habitat of the animals.
Two years later, Richard Pistell was president, and Ashton would go on to become chairman of the company.
Under her management, Pepperidge Farm continued to expand into other products, including frozen pastry items and, later, the Goldfish snack cracker from Switzerland.
The main purpose of a liquor cabinet or cellarette was to secure wine and whiskey from theft as the bottles were hidden and the cabinet could have a lock.
Today, Americans consume approximately 70 million pounds (32,000 t) of Tater Tots, or 3,710,000,000 Tots per year.
Following the Korean War and post-war occupation, raw materials became scarce and cheap tin lunchboxes made from scrap metal were used to contain a simple meal of rice, banchan, and some protein.
This book contains prophecies attributed to the prophet Jeremiah, and is one of the Books of the Prophets.
It was defined as a liquid preparation made from cooked sago passed through a sieve and mixed with coconut milk, salt and sugar.
Way Fong is considered as one of the dominant brands and a major player in the frozen dumplings market.
The basic format is called "GN 1/1" and measures 530×325 mm, with other Gastronorm sizes being multiples and fractions of this basic module size.
Milk which is sold in pre-packaged containers that are non-returnable must be labelled in metric units.
The process of making helado de paila developed in the highlands of northern Ecuador and southern Colombia, including in Imbabura Province and Nariño Department.
Newly harvested grain brought into a granary tends to contain excess moisture, which encourages mold growth leading to fermentation and heating, both of which are undesirable and affect quality.
It was the deadliest fire in South Korea since the Daegu subway fire on 18 February 2003, which killed 192 people.
Flip-top The "flip-top", "swing-top" or "Grolsch" style consists of a plastic or ceramic stopper held in place by a set of wires.
In 1993, Ravel created a self-contained wine cooling unit, which would come to be one of the companies most lucrative products.
acquired the Libby's trademark license for preserved foods in the UK, Ireland and Portugal with the exceptions of corned beef, pumpkin and fruit juices.
As carbonated water is dispensed, the mixer tank is automatically refilled with cold water and carbon dioxide, ensuring a continuous supply of carbonated water is readily available.
Ice cream Softserve or a more common term I-Tim (ไอศครีม ซอฟเสริฟ or ไอติม in Thai) are the terms used in Thailand.
It emerged from bankruptcy on July 26, 2010, after restructuring to eliminate $14.2 million in annual interest payments and reduce total debt from $176.3 million to $40 million.
It prevents the bottle from resonating as easily, decreasing the likelihood of shattering during transportation.
This method for iced coffee appeared in numerous culinary works, but the term café viennois or café liégeois was not yet used.
See also Matki Mashk References External links Video of handthrowing kulhars Video of kulhars in use
In some municipalities milk bags are required to be discarded as garbage and in others they are recyclable.
One traditional remedy is to spread the grain in thin layers on a floor, where it is turned to aerate it thoroughly.
It was also assumed that, since kulhars are manufactured by small operations, this would assist in boosting rural employment.
Unopened oils can have a storage life of up to one year, but some types have a shorter shelf-life even when unopened (such as sesame and flaxseed).
Products stored The products stored in qullqas varied from region to region in the Inca Empire depending upon production in the local area.
Italian winemakers have had a long history of using Slavonian oak from the Quercus robur which is known for its tight grain, low aromatics and medium level tannins.
Cavendish Farms has potato processing plants in New Annan, Prince Edward Island, Lethbridge, Alberta, and Jamestown, North Dakota, and an appetizer plant in Wheatley, Ontario.
As a fibre, spliced into bell rope tops to help prevent wear on the ropes as they pass through the ceiling.
Stouffer's is known for such popular fare as lasagna, macaroni and cheese, meatloaf, ravioli, fettuccine Alfredo, and salisbury steak.
An icebox (also called a cold closet) is a compact, non-mechanical refrigerator which was a common early-twentieth-century kitchen appliance before the development of safely powered refrigeration devices.
Use of stereospecific catalysts can lead to heterotactic PLA which has been found to show crystallinity.
Aunt Bessie's frozen roast potatoes were introduced in 1999 and were one of a number of products including chips and croquettes that had been manufactured under licence by Heinz at their factory in Norfolk until the contract for the deal ended in 2015.
A particularly popular thermal mass refrigerator was conceived by Michael Reynolds and detailed in his 1993 book Earthship Volume 3.
The addition of salt lowered the melting point of ice, drawing heat from the cream and allowing it to freeze.
The most prized milk bottles are embossed or pyro-glazed (painted) with the names of dairies on them, which were used for home delivery of milk so that the milk bottles could find their way back to their respective dairies.
To introduce bagels to an unfamiliar public, the Lender family would prepare and distribute them in supermarket aisles.
Construction Traditionally, bota bags were lined with goat bladders, in other cases tree sap or other resins were used to prevent liquids from seeping through.
The Lord of Odate Castle, Nishiie Satake, encouraged this craft, which has been passed on from the end of the Edo period to the present.
Wine preservation While it has reportedly lost its ethanol content, analysis is consistent with at least part of the liquid having been wine.
It can also be produced in sheet form, widely used for the production of stationery folders, ring binder covers, packaging, and storage boxes.
Food frozen at −18 °C (0 °F) or below may be preserved almost indefinitely, although its quality is likely to deteriorate over time.
But unlike most things tripped up by zoning regulations, Little Free Libraries have an impressive record of besting the rules imposed on them.
() was an American company that designed, manufactured and sold the Juicero Press, a fruit and vegetable juicer.
A single piece of material is used for the top and bottom with a "living hinge" that is integral to the material, rather than added separately.
Partially hydrogenated vegetable oils are high in trans fats and are shown to adversely affect cardiovascular health.
29% of the UK population – which works out to 19.2 million people – belong to households that bring in below a minimum figure.
Café liégeois is a French dessert made of sweetened iced coffee or coffee ice cream topped with whipped cream (crème Chantilly).
Because of its lower density (high branching), it breaks down more easily than other plastics; as this happens, the surface area increases.
Requirements Stability and stackability Most packaging for the transport of pizzas is made of cardboard, as this is both cheap, easy to work with and lightweight while maintaining adequate structural integrity to hold and deliver pizzas.
In 2021, the Singapore Food Tech Event showcased how bento of the future might look like for a sustainable food system.
Adaptations Although some California coolers have been preserved, often they remain with vents to outside blocked off and are used as general storage.
The original Kilner bottlemakers operated from 1842, when the company was first founded, until 1937, when the company went into liquidation.
Purchasing Cooperative for Nonprofits Leket's purchase cooperative for nonprofits provides savings up to 25% off of nonprofit organizations' food budgets.
Specifically, plastics as polyethylene (PE), polypropylene (PP), and polyethylene terephthalate (PET) are considered safe and are regularly used in the food industry as a layer in direct contact with food.
WidgetCo manufactures and distributes metal, plastic, cork, rubber and wood products to businesses and individuals worldwide.
His patent expired in 1975 and has been directly cited in the mechanisms used by companies such as Crown Cork & Seal Co., BHP, and United States Steel Corporation.
However, there are instances where the terrain dips enough from one side to another to allow for 3/4 to full-size windows, with the actual floor remaining below grade.
It is used to help maintain the temperature of its contents, keeping cold items cold, and hot items hot.
Totino's is a brand of frozen pizza products owned by General Mills, best known for their pizza rolls.
Botijas sometimes also held almonds, capers, honey, medicinals, lard, hazelnuts, and syrup, with one botija of salt pork reported in the early 17th century in St.
In Iran, faloodeh is sold in ice cream stores and coffee shops in flavors such as pistachio, saffron, rose water, and honey, and can be served alongside bastani sonnati, a traditional Persian ice cream.
In modern houses, butler's pantries are usually located in transitional spaces between kitchens and dining rooms and are used as staging areas for serving meals.
Ball Corporation brands The Ball Corporation, which once dominated the market as the largest domestic manufacturer of home canning jars, spun off its home-canning business in 1993.
It consists of thin vermicelli-sized noodles made from starch in a semi-frozen syrup containing sugar and rose water.
In 2014, the company purchased a 68-acre farm in Douglasville, Georgia, where they intend to grow ingredients needed for their pops such as, according to Creative Loafing, "mint, basil, lemongrass, ginger, berries and melons".
The fiasco is no longer commonly used in Italy for storing and selling wine, and its more common uses nowadays are as a souvenir for tourists or as a decorative item in restaurants and kitchens.
Rather than being cylindrical, the hadra hydria's vertical handle was ribbed and its side handles were gently curved.
Angels' share "Angels' share" is a term for the portion (share) of a wine or distilled spirit's volume that is lost to evaporation during aging in oak barrels.
Air is not pumped into the mix, nor is it added as an "ingredient" but gets into the frozen state by the agitation of liquid similar to whisking a meringue.
A 1997 study performed by the University of Illinois, 2007 study performed by University of California – Davis and a 2003 Austrian study support that canned or frozen produce has no substantial nutritional difference not attributable to the presence of added salt, syrup or other flavouring.
After such a feast of Lucullus, it will behove me to take the waters at Karlsbad!" Novelist Susie Boyt, eating Nesselrode pudding for the first time in 2016, reported that "it tasted of Christmas, without any of the disappointment".
It includes two types of cheese: Parmigiano Reggiano, an Italian cheese product that adds nut like flavor, and Sake kasu, a paste-like byproduct of sake production that adds a subtle fermented flavor.
Given that there were approximately 20 million households in the US at that time, as much as 10% of homes had Hoosier cabinets made by Hoosier Manufacturing, and an additional unknown quantity had Hoosier cabinets made by competing companies.
Exceptional Mavrodafni vintages are released every 20 or 30 years: they are of minimal availability and expensive.
The company advertised nationally, and claimed its product was designed by women from all over the nation.
Examples Popular culture The 2000 film The 6th Day, features an Internet refrigerator which informs Arnold Schwarzenegger that the milk is over its expiring date and asks him to confirm a new order.
The product features boneless chicken thigh fillet, designed to meet consumer demand for convenience and high quality.
Trawling Starting with a small fleet of four fishing vessels in the 1930s, Ross diversified into trawling from 1934.
and opened his stand - The Original Banana Rolla Rama - right across the street from Phillips' original shop.
Huckabucks are typically sold for a dime or quarter, and generally alongside other snacks like chips and candy as a common after-school snack for schoolchildren.
An additional innovation developed specifically for food cans uses a tab that is bent slightly upwards, creating a larger surface area for easier finger access.
The exact date is still in doubt, but the preponderance of available evidence suggests the event took place sometime between 1914 and 1918, after whaling ended and before the intensification of the North American fur trade.
This capability would involve connecting the refrigerator to an online retail store, ensuring a consistently stocked refrigerator at home for domestic use.
It is neither feasible nor economical to install and manage monitoring groundwater wells in a place like Prince Edward Island, which consists of 260 watersheds for efficient water management." By 2016, yields for P.E.I.
It can also be found in other countries, such as Poland, but is rarely seen in China and other Asian countries with high numbers of ethnic Chinese.
The procedure then takes a weighted average of the number of kernels assigned to each level to obtain a standardized measure of mechanical damage.
Decades ago, the delicacy was served only in high-end hotels, but today it is commonly served in many Western restaurants and even in some cha chaan teng.
It was served at a White House state dinner hosted by Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and President Kennedy for the Sudanese president Ibrahim Abboud, and by Queen Elizabeth for Laura and President Bush.
The main, or base, part is sugared sweet coconut milk-based ice in pink syrup, served with pacar cina merah delima (red tapioca pearls), avocado, cassava tapai, ketan hitam (black glutinous rice) tapai, jackfruit, diced bread and condensed milk.
This project is a joint venture between the Federal Government (FG) of Nigeria and the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT).
See also Kilner jar Screw cap Sterilization (microbiology) Weck jar References External links Preserving Tradition Fowlers Vacola Company Website
An alternative method of production was to cast tin onto an ingot of recently-cast, congealing, lead.
Gallery Competing standards Professional kitchen equipment from America are often not built according to Gastronorm, but rather to national non-metric size standards.
Benefits and concerns Compared to cork, screw caps reduce the wine faults of oxidation and of cork taint, although it is possible to find TCA contamination in a screw cap bottle.
19th century usages In the 19th century, the phrase has been found associated with the California gold rush of the 1840s where men were lowered by hand in baskets down mining shafts to set explosives which could have deadly consequences.
Food stored under unsuitable conditions should not be purchased or used because of the risk of spoilage.
Instructions for the dinners stated they were to be heated in the microwave for 2 minutes, rotated, heated for another 1–2 minutes, then given an additional 2–3 minutes to cool off before serving, making for 5–7 minutes of preparation.
Per Indian regulations, ice cream which is made from milk solids, but contains non-dairy fat is categorized and labelled as frozen dessert.
Italian ice can be used as a stand-alone refreshment, dessert, or as a palate restorer in a multi-course meal.
Analysis of polyphenols in the wine identified quercetin, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, apigenin, vanillin, isoquercetin, naringin, and rutin, confirming the liquid's identification as wine.
Pepperidge Farm Incorporated is an American commercial bakery founded in 1937 by Margaret Rudkin, who named the brand after her family's 123-acre farm property in Fairfield, Connecticut, which had been named for the pepperidge tree.
Flexible PVC can consist of over 85% plasticizer by mass, however unplasticized PVC (UPVC) should not contain any.
This means that they can receive a food bank parcel of three days’ nutritionally balanced, non-perishable food from their local food bank.
BiB packaging can be made using form fill seal (FFS) technology, where the bags are manufactured on-line from reels of film, then the FlexTap is inserted then filled on an integral rotary head filler.
Rubber hoses or gaskets have a high affinity for TCA and therefore concentrate TCA from the atmosphere; wine or water that subsequently passes through infected hoses can become tainted with TCA.
Analysis of variance on the profiles of the sample jars found that minor variation of constructional features was random.
Mort financed experiments by Eugene Dominic Nicolle, a French born engineer who had arrived in Sydney in 1853 and registered his first ice-making patent in 1861.
To heat the contents of the can, the user pushes on the bottom of the can to break the barrier separating the chemical from the water.
At the portals, soil nail and shotcrete walls are typically used for permanent support and are constructed from the top down in lifts.
In 2008, $20 million was invested to integrate Wine Ark storages units in National Storage storage centers.
Through this organization, the methods of preparing hams, bacon, sausages, pâtés, and terrines were preserved.
In 2014, the Juicy Juice brand and business was sold by Nestlé to Harvest Hill Beverage Company, a portfolio company of Brynwood Partners.
In 1296, Marco Polo reportedly heard of the Chinese invention and is credited with introducing sorbet-style desserts to Italy; but it is not mentioned in his writings.
The aluminum can is also considered the most valuable recyclable material in an average recycling bin.
Faloodeh is an Arabicized form of paloodeh that appeared after the Arab conquest of Iran, due to a lack of the phoneme /p/ in Standard Arabic.
In response, Freezer Queen first requested a new USDA inspector, then suggested that parts of the facility were debris-strewn and not normally cleaned, and finally elected to shut down the facility rather than fix the unsafe and unsanitary conditions.
Because more milk fits on each truck, shipping costs can be reduced by half; this reduces the number of trucks on the road each year by 11000 (US estimate).
Modern earthenware may be biscuit (or "bisque") fired to temperatures between 1,000 and 1,150 °C (1,830 and 2,100 °F) and glost-fired (or "glaze-fired") to between 950 and 1,050 °C (1,740 and 1,920 °F).
In 2007, Iron Gate organized the largest private order wine tasting in Toronto and in 2011 put on the first ever wine auction in Ontario.
Many packaging products can be compostable, but care is needed to match the needs of regional composting facilities.
The first digit is the last digit of the Year (e.g., 0 could be equal to 2010 or 2020, 1 could be equal to 2001 or 2011, and 9 could be equal to 2009 or 2019).
Semi-generic designations were once quite common in countries such as Australia and the US, but the wine authorities in areas such as Champagne have not been afraid to bring lawsuits against the use of their names outside their region, and semi-generic names are falling out of use.
The advent of pull tabs in beverage cans spread to the canning of various food products, such as pet food or nuts (and non-food products such as motor oil and tennis balls).
Traditional water containers About 50 billion single-use plastic water bottles made of polyethylene terephthalate (PET) are produced in the United States each year, and most are discarded.
There has been increased regulatory interest in substantiating these claims, and in some jurisdictions, food labels require regulatory approval before use.
Which followed two men on a mission to change Britain's food habits by rescuing the fresh food that supermarkets used to bin and getting it to the people who need it.
Home canning (or bottling) uses glass jars, such as Kilner jars or Mason jars, and boiling the containers to sterilize the contents.
A feature of large country houses and sporting lodges in Britain and parts of northern Europe from the 18th century, game larders continue to be used by shooting estates.
Lindhome had previously appeared in the season five episode "The Party's Over, Isla de Señorita", playing the Island Lady, and Micucci had previously appeared in the season two episode "Heat Signature", playing Wendy, one of Marceline's ghost friends.
Gastronorm (GN), sometimes spelled Gastro-Norm, is a European standard for kitchenware tray and container sizes that is commonly seen worldwide in the catering and professional food industry, as well as in certain parts of the high-end consumer market.
In fishing fly tying, metallized Mylar strips are sometimes wound around the hook shank for reflective striping or shimmer in certain patterns.
Some studio potters follow the reverse practice, with a low-temperature biscuit firing and a high-temperature glost firing.
Both the OPM Vocabulary and the PROV Ontology make extensive use of metadata models such as Dublin Core and Semantic Web technologies such as the Web Ontology Language (OWL).
These insects briefly continue to consume oxygen, but as oxygen levels in the bags drop, and CO2 concentrations rise, the insects stop feeding and quickly die, thereby protecting the crop from further damage.
In Australia, due to the difference in how wine is taxed compared to other alcoholic beverages, boxed wine is often the least expensive form of drinkable alcohol.
It is considered rich in both taste and texture, with the cheese contributing a fruit-like complexity to the flavor, offering subtle sweet and tangy notes that balance the richness, adding depth to the overall flavor profile.
The unpatented plant-based meat substitutes are made from legumes, grains, natural flavourings, and spices, and do not contain any genetically modified ingredients.
2,4,6-Trichloroanisole (TCA) The role of TCA in tainting the foodstuffs is known since at least 1970s.
Bellisio brands include Michelina's, Michelina's Lean Gourmet, Michelina's Budget Gourmet, Fusion Culinary, Arden Kitchens, Chariton and Howlin' Coyote.
In the 1960s and 70s, as production in Nigeria shifted from agriculture to oil, the groundnut pyramids disappeared.
On the Parthenon Frieze, none of the maidens (who may be identified by their long hair) are depicted carrying the kanoun and all of them wear the festival mantle.
A disadvantage of the closure is the relatively high cost of each plug (70 cents each) and cost either of manual bottling, or else obtaining compatible bottling equipment.
However, this first harvest almost always produces poor quality or virgin cork (Portuguese cortiça virgem; Spanish corcho bornizo or corcho virgen).
To detect the anti-yeast activity of beeswax wraps two strains of Saccharomyces cerevsiae were incubated in a liquid phase with the beeswax wrap.
For this reason, the straw cover had to be reduced, leaving the bottle bare from the "shoulder" up—an arrangement that persists to this day.
The interiors of the chain's earlier restaurants are decorated with antiques circa 1900, providing a theme that is reminiscent of Victorian England as well as early United States.
It continues to invest in the use of state-of-the-art technology and integrated, fully automated manufacturing processes to ensure consistent product quality as well as compliance with international HACCP standards for food safety.
Tu, "Mormon canneries preserve the spirit of self-reliance", Seattle Times, 2008-11-08 External links Bishop's Storehouses : Mormon wiki
In December, McCain's Australian subsidiary acquired Kitchens of Sara Lee, including the rights to Sara Lee brand for the Pacific Rim market.
Clarence Birdseye test-marketed herring fish fingers, a product he had discovered in the United States, under the name "herring savouries".
Work began on the statue in the spring of 1978, with a target for completion to coincide with the opening of Blue Earth's section of Interstate 90 on September 23, 1978.
The business operates 95 pushcarts and two customized ice cream trucks, and has retail branches in Athens, Georgia, Charleston, South Carolina, Greenville, South Carolina, Richmond, Virginia, Nashville, Tennessee, and Charlotte, North Carolina, among other places.
Children are raised by families that have the difficult task of explaining to that there will be nothing for dinner that night.
Christensen of the United States owning the largest collection of beer cans with 75,000 from 125 countries and Allan Green, of the United States also, with the largest collection of wine cans, at 449.
During the Paris World's Fair in 1867, the chef of the Grand Hôtel decided to create a "scientific dessert" by using Benjamin Thompson's discovery of the low thermal conductivity of egg whites.
It also became the largest shareholder of vertical-farming business TruLeaf, following an initial investment in 2018.
The aging process does not occur in the keg when the wine is blanketed with a gas such as nitrogen or argon to pressurize the keg.
When health conscious modern Koreans began to revisit packed lunches, they begain using the fancy divided Japanese style bento boxes to keep the meal's ingredients perfectly arranged and separate.
Through Little Free Libraries, present in 115 countries, millions of books are exchanged each year, with the aim of increasing access to books for readers of all ages and backgrounds.
HDPE is preferred by the pyrotechnics trade for mortars over steel or PVC tubes, being more durable and safer: HDPE tends to rip or tear in a malfunction instead of shattering and becoming shrapnel like the other materials.
See also Bento – Japan Brown bag Dosirak – Korea Tiffin carrier – India and Pakistan References External links Media related to Lunch boxes at Wikimedia Commons History of Lunchboxes Archived April 30, 2013, at the Wayback Machine, Retrieved June 4, 2013.
The results, compared with data from eight years before, showed a sharp reduction in TCA levels, of around 81 percent.
Over Memorial Day weekend of 1934, Tom Carvel, the founder of the Carvel brand and franchise, suffered a flat tire in his ice cream truck in Hartsdale, New York.
To ensure traceability of the product, a lot number, generally the date and time of bottling, may also be printed on the bottle.
Solar refrigerators are also used in cottages and camps as an alternative to absorption refrigerators, as they can be safely left running year-round.
History Founding and original locations The first Uno's was established in 1943 by former University of Texas football star Ike Sewell and his friend, former World War II G.I.
New classes for wines There are two classes for wines with official status in all 13 Anbaugebiete and one regional class in Rheinhessen and the Rheingau, respectively.
The design of these sachets had been called 'evil' by Hanneke Faber, Unilever's President for Global Food and Refreshments, 'because you cannot recycle it'.
Sandwich for School Kids Project Sandwich for School Kids Project provides 7,800 volunteer prepared sandwiches daily to disadvantaged school children in over 100 schools throughout Israel.
The ride-on cooler can transport food and drinks short distances and can be used in a small backyard, a neighborhood, or at large outdoor parties.
The bottle has been dated between 325 and 350 AD and is the oldest known unopened bottle of wine in the world.
While working as a butcher in a market, he discovered that it is unknown whether most fresh-meat sources were halal or not, leading to Ramly's decision to produce a halal-certified meat source for all Muslim consumers in Malaysia.
Flexible packaging Biaxially oriented PET (BOPET) film can be aluminized by evaporating a thin film of metal onto it to reduce its permeability, and to make it reflective and opaque (MPET).
It can also save money on water and energy used by dishwashers and can eliminate the need to replace reusables that are broken, damaged, stolen or accidentally discarded.
Italian ice is derived from Italian granita and is in many ways similar to sorbet and snow cones, but differs from American-style sherbet in that it does not contain dairy or egg ingredients.
It had the function of making the bottle less likely to topple over—a bottle designed with a flat bottom only needs a small imperfection to make it unstable—the dimple historically allowed for a larger margin of error.
One etymology of the term codswallop originates from beer sold in Codd bottles, though this is generally dismissed as a folk etymology.
Margaret Connors McQuade, in her chapter on the "Talavera Poblana: Four Centuries of a Mexican Ceramic Tradition" in Talavera Poblana: Four Centuries of a Mexican Ceramic Tradition, states that it is unclear exactly how the Talavera pottery style made its way over to Mexico.
The block has four standardized variants defined to specify emoji-style (U+FE0F VS16) or text presentation (U+FE0E VS15) for the two emoji, both of which default to a text presentation.
Historical parallels During the Stalinist purges, Jews who were accused of being "rootless cosmopolitans" had their names placed in single parentheses.
According to the Pampangan Academy (Akademiang Kapampángan), the Batiáuan revision complicates Kapampangan writing and confuses adherents of their proposed orthography.
Less common adverbs, including all those that end -ly, are less likely to need hyphens." In the 19th century, it was common to hyphenate adverb–adjective modifiers with the adverb ending in -ly (e.g., "a craftily-constructed chair").
Association with shouting or yelling Messages completely in capital letters are often equated on social media to shouting and other impolite or argumentative behaviors.
The diaeresis can be combined with the acute, grave and circumflex but never with breathings, since the letter with the diaeresis cannot be the first vowel of the word.
Lateral masking is a problem for the human visual perception of identical or similar entities in close proximity.
Types The following are examples of types of parenthetical phrases: Introductory phrase: Once upon a time, my father ate a muffin.
The older MS-DOS filesystems FAT12 and FAT16 were case-insensitive and not case-preserving, so that a file whose name is entered as readme.txt or ReadMe.txt is saved as README.TXT.
The sign equivalent to Iberian s is transcribed as z in Celtiberian, because it is assumed that it sometimes expresses the fricative result of an ancient dental stop (d), while the Iberian sign ś is transcribed as s.
It is used by scholars of the Hittite language to separate clitics from the word to which they attach; this usage has been adopted by the Leipzig Glossing Rules.
Italian orthography, which is shallow overall, offers clear examples of differential directionality in depth.
In the phrase dos and don'ts, most modern style guides disparage spelling the first word as do's; however, there is a lack of consensus and certainly the use of an apostrophe continues, legitimately, in which "the apostrophe of plurality occurs in the first word but not the second".
Vertical lines Ancient inscribed and cuneiform scripts such as Anatolian hieroglyphs frequently used short vertical lines to separate words, as did Linear B.
For example, in the International Phonetic Alphabet used in linguistics, ⟨a⟩ and ⟨ɑ⟩ represent different sounds, even though they are allographs of a lower-case ⟨a⟩ in normal English usage.
If A is ordered before B, there is a counterbleeding relationship if B destroys the environment that A applies to and has already applied and so B has missed its chance to bleed A.
In current practice, interrobang-like emphatic ambiguity in Hispanic languages is usually achieved by including both sets of punctuation marks, one inside the other: (¿¡De verdad!?
In his studies on what is now called Jungian archetypes, a sign stands for something known, as a word stands for its referent.
The particle ⟨не⟩ and the preposition ⟨без⟩ are written unchanged, independently of pronunciation: ⟨не быў⟩, instead of ⟨ня быў⟩; and ⟨без мамы⟩, instead of ⟨бяз мамы⟩ (compare with English definite article "the").
Drinov also believed that the letter щ and the silent yers should be removed, however, this was never put into practice.
Since, however, in commonly used modes, an individual tengwa was equivalent to a consonant, the term tengwa in the fiction became equivalent to "consonant sign", and the vowel signs were known as ómatehtar.
These keys can then be efficiently compared byte by byte in order to collate or sort them according to the rules of the language, with options for ignoring case, accents, etc.
Their prophecy so remained and was explained by the prophet Ezekiel: "So says the Lord, G-d: Are you the one of whom I have spoken in the days of yore through prophets of Israel?
In response to intense public criticism, businesses, organizations, and governments may take symbolic actions rather than, or in addition to, directly addressing the identified problems.
Shackle suggests that the Gurmukhī script was not favoured by Punjabi Muslims due to its religious (Sikh) connotations.
This is a spacing character, not to be confused with the alternative (below-letter) form of the ligature tie (a͜b U+035C ◌͜◌ COMBINING DOUBLE BREVE BELOW), which is a combining character.
Methods of romanization include transliteration, for representing written text, and transcription, for representing the spoken word, and combinations of both.
H-system The original method of working around the diacritics was developed by the creator of Esperanto himself, L.
It is also traditionally used to mark the division between lines of verse printed as prose (the style preferred by Oxford University Press), though it is now often replaced by the forward slash.
This system was presented to the International Romani Union in 1990, who adopted it as the organization's "official alphabet".
Recognising the lack of teachers in the language, Chesswas took the opportunity to publish a textbook for stations where no teachers of the language were available.
Looijenga, Tineke (2003), Texts & Contexts of the Oldest Runic Inscriptions (PDF), Leiden: Koninklijke Brill NV, ISBN 90-04-12396-2, archived from the original (PDF) on 2022-05-08, retrieved 2019-09-23 == External links ==
The straight apostrophe ' (the "ASCII apostrophe", U+0027 ' APOSTROPHE) is even more ambiguous, as it could also be intended as a left or right quotation mark, or a prime symbol.
According to the Yiddish scholar Dovid Katz, "prejudices and misconceptions" concerning Yiddish were promulgated by both antisemites and well-meaning Jewish assimilationists during the 19th century, both of whom regarded Yiddish as a degenerated form of German.
Matthijs Siegenbeek (Dutch pronunciation: [mɑˈtɛis ˈsiɣə(m)ˌbeːk]; 23 June 1774 in Amsterdam – 26 November 1854 in Leiden) was a Dutch academic.
Leibniz wrote about the alphabet of human thought and Alexander von Humboldt corresponded with Peter Stephen Du Ponceau who proposed a universal phonetic alphabet.
The randomized capitalization leads to the flow of words being broken, making it harder for the text to be read as it disrupts word identification even when the size of the letters is the same as in uppercase or lowercase.
Although the first example of written Romani dates from 1542, it is not until the twentieth century that vernacular writing by native Romani people arose.
The Babylonian Talmud discusses why the Hebrew Bible in Leviticus 23:42–43 writes for the plural word 'booths' the Hebrew word סֻּכֹּת (in defective scriptum), but in the verse that immediately follows makes use of the plural word in its usual form, סֻּכּוֹת.
It is currently edited by Mike Zender of the University of Cincinnati, which publishes and provides administrative offices for the journal.
Computer encoding Unicode encodes the daṇḍas as U+0964 । DEVANAGARI DANDA and U+0965 ॥ DEVANAGARI DOUBLE DANDA.
Rabbi Jedidiah Norzi (1560–1626) wrote a popular work on Hebrew orthography contained in the Five Books of Moses, and in the five Megillot, with examples of plene and defective writings, which was later named Minḥat Shai.
Whole language and related areas Whole language has the reputation of being a meaning-based method of teaching reading that emphasizes literature and text comprehension.
In a letter to the English Journal, Peter Brodie stated that apostrophes are "largely decorative ...
In addition to the unusual spelling system used the manuscript is notable for several other reasons.
The Ukrainian orthography (Ukrainian: Український правопис, romanized: Ukrainskyi pravopys) is the orthography for the Ukrainian language, a system of generally accepted rules that determine the ways of transmitting speech in writing.
The Latin alphabet has been preferred among Amazigh linguists and researchers, and also has a great deal of established writing, including newspapers, periodicals, and magazines.
The plays of Shakespeare show capitalization both of new lines and sentences, proper nouns, and some significant common nouns and verbs.
Another example of using a structured approach to teach reading is the foundational-skills curriculum, UFLI Foundations, developed by researchers at the University of Florida Literacy Institute.
Discussion of how to harmonize these with other systems led to several largely abortive proposals such as the African Reference Alphabet and the World Orthography.
References Sources Dictionary.com – Tittle External links Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon "Tittle" on Everything2
See also Vertical bar – Typographic symbol, | Pilcrow – Symbol (¶) to identify a paragraph, the latin character-set equivalent of the double daṇḍa Footnotes References External links The dictionary definition of danda at Wiktionary The dictionary definition of दण्ड at Wiktionary
The hyphen may be used between vowel letters (e.g., ee, ea, ei) to indicate that they do not form a digraph.
As, in these languages, use of script often has cultural or political connotations, proclamation of an official script is sometimes criticized as having a goal of influencing culture or politics or both.
800–1100) From the early Viking Age, the Younger Futhark inscription Ög43, from Östergötland, Sweden, features a unique case of an ideographic rune, namely an Elder Futhark d-rune ᛞ (early Old Norse: *dagʀ), used to represent the carvers name.
Everyday use of diacritics for Filipino is, however, uncommon, and meant only to distinguish between homonyms between a word with the usual penultimate stress and one with a different stress placement.
Tsade (also spelled ṣade, ṣādē, ṣaddi, ṣad, tzadi, sadhe, tzaddik) is the eighteenth letter of the Semitic abjads, including Phoenician ṣādē 𐤑, Hebrew ṣādī צ‎, Aramaic ṣāḏē 𐡑, Syriac ṣāḏē ܨ, Ge'ez ṣädäy ጸ, and Arabic ṣād ص‎.
Only with the three velar consonants, which like most Russian consonants have both a hard and a soft form, does the spelling rule actually reflect phonetically based pronunciation.
Some users of keyboards with Caps Lock on the left remap the keys to exchange Control and Caps Lock, finding the traditional location more ergonomic for using programs benefiting from use of the Control key.
He describes the use of the asterisk and the dagger as: "an asterisk makes a light shine, the obelisk cuts and pierces".
However, the practice is not unified when writing initial letters of personal names (first name and surname), for example Jan Chudoba can be abbreviated both J.
History In 1496, the semicolon ; is attested in Pietro Bembo's book De Aetna printed by Aldo Manuzio.
Orthographic regularity and depth Writing systems, especially alphabets, often include characters that can represent multiple sound values, or conversely sound values that can be represented by multiple characters – this phenomenon is referred to as polyvalence.
It is a particular graphical representation, in a particular typeface (or computer font), of an element of written language.
The oldest inscriptions in the southeastern Iberian script date to the 4th century BCE, while the most recent ones date from the end of the 2nd century BCE.
Syllabograms in syllabaries are analogous to letters in alphabets, which represent individual phonemes, or logograms in logographies, which represent morphemes.
This strategy is also followed with the ambiguous letters е, ю, and я in final syllables, for instance in юнь /jyn/ cheap.
OpenType provides support for transformations from normal letters to petite caps by two feature tags, pcap and c2pc.
Nevertheless, since 1991 the ligature ⟨և⟩ is oftentimes intentionally avoided in some print media, where ⟨եվ⟩ or ⟨եւ⟩ is used instead.
According to tradition, the Greeks had acquired the ability to write, among other things, from the Egyptians through Pythagoras (c.
Capital letters have been widely used in printed headlines from the early days of newspapers until the 1950s.
A readable orthography will avoid situations in which a reader is faced with severe lateral masking.
Although their Adobe glyph names are 'letter with comma', their names in the Unicode Standard are 'letter with a cedilla'.
The printed form is called uchen script while the hand-written cursive forms used in everyday writing are called umê script.
The letter Mem also had a descender 𐡌‎, however, its current final form ם‎ was a variant of מ‎ used interchangeably in all positions.
Diple obolismene was used according to Isidore to separate sentences in comedies and tragedies, so its usage was similar to that of paragraphos.
Decimals and Version Numbers: A variation of natural sort, often called version sort, is designed to handle multiple numeric segments separated by dots (e.g., 1.2.10 vs 1.2.2).
English is unusual because it combines deep orthography, with multiple possible sounds for many letters.
Small capitals are not found in all font designs, as traditionally in printing they were primarily used within the body text of books and so are often not found in fonts that are not intended for this purpose, such as sans-serif types which historically were not preferred for book printing.
It is also applied in areas such as voter registration, where Mac and Mc names may be sorted together in a listing.
Latin alphabet Most orthographies that use the Latin writing system are imperfectly phonological and diverge from that ideal to a greater or lesser extent.
This would then suggest that the Vikings closely tied their language to their auditory sense, which in turn would have helped with the continual transfer of their cultural memory, which was also closely tied to their language.
Usernames: Authentication systems usually treat usernames as case-insensitive to make them easier to remember, reducing typing complexity, and eliminate the possibility of both mistakes and fraud when two usernames are identical in every aspect except the case of one of their letters.
if the syllable in which the о is to be added in the suffix is unstressed, then one must always write е.
The orthographic system developed by Chinese Evenki scholars reflects differences between Evenki and Mongol phonology.
Each identification number specifies six attributes—category, group, symbol, variation, fill, and rotation—as dash-separated values.
Goosse's book, trying to make the debate less personal, was titled La « nouvelle » orthographe, Exposé et commentaires, published by Ed.Duculot in 1991.
Phonograms are contrasted with logograms, graphemes that represent units of meaning like words, morphemes, and determinatives (silent characters used to mark semantic categories).
The International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) also has some featural elements, for example in the hooks and tails that are characteristic of implosives, ɓ ɗ ʄ ɠ ʛ, and retroflex consonants, ʈ ɖ ʂ ʐ ɳ ɻ ɽ ɭ.
Up until then, Spanish norms were used in writing Kapampangan, which in turn meant that Kapampangan orthography was subject to the succession of reforms made by the Real Academia Española to Spanish orthography.
Math and science Decimal separator In the Middle Ages, from the original Indian decimal writing, before printing, an overline over the units digit was used to separate the integral part of a number from its fractional part, as in 9995 (meaning 99.95 in decimal point format).
The term donor principle is sometimes also used for the particular spelling of names of specific products, brands, institutions, etc., chosen by their owner, founder, designer, etc., when it clashes with the official spelling rules.
Some nations have established language academies in an attempt to regulate aspects of the national language, including its orthography—such as the Académie Française in France and the Royal Spanish Academy in Spain.
An -ing fragment is a type of incomplete sentence containing a word ending in -ing that is a gerund or noun, not a verb, because it lacks a helping verb.
Routine use of the serial comma helps to prevent ambiguity." Garner's Modern English Usage, 4th edition (Oxford University Press, 2016), "Punctuation," § D, "Comma", p.
Italic and bold face forms are also allographic, as is the variation seen in serif (as in Times New Roman) versus sans-serif (as in Helvetica) forms.
The Celtiberian script is a Paleohispanic script that was the main writing system of the Celtiberian language, an extinct Continental Celtic language, which was also occasionally written using the Latin alphabet.
Between 1100 CE and 1400 CE, the Telugu and Kannada scripts separated from the Telugu-Kannada script.
Homophones Two (or more) differently spelled words with different meanings are homophones if they are nonetheless pronounced the same; e.g., "right", "rite", "wright", and "write"; "read" (most tenses of verb) and "reed"; "read" (past, past participle) and "red".
In the end, it was indeed Drinov's reform which would become the most widely used, even during the Ottoman Empire.
In Unicode code charts, the representative glyph used for U+02BB looks identical to that used for the U+2018 ‘ LEFT SINGLE QUOTATION MARK, but this is not true for all fonts.
Indeed "virtually every edition" of the playwright's work in the early 19th century before 1840 used this spelling.
According to Dhavan, Punjabi began to adopt the script as a "side effect" of educational practices in Mughal-era Punjab, when Punjabi Muslims learned the Persian language in order to participate in Mughal society.
Expanding the Application of SWI SWI is gaining traction as a method for teaching students of varying ages, from young children to adults, by emphasizing the structure of words rather than rote memorization.
A major area of the debate concerned whether or not "Into Darkness" was a subtitle of Star Trek Into Darkness, which was not clear without the colon.
The DUCET is customizable for different languages, and some such customizations can be found in the Unicode Common Locale Data Repository (CLDR).
The same is true for the ⟨o⟩ in English boat, [oː] in Scottish English, instead of the diphthong [əʊ].
Spell checkers can use approximate string matching algorithms such as Levenshtein distance to find correct spellings of misspelled words.
clauses that have not been made dependent through the use of a relative pronoun or a subordinating conjunction) that are joined without appropriate punctuation: the clauses "run on" into confusion.
In academic writing, it is sometimes used as an in-text referencing tool to make reference to a specific paragraph from a document that does not contain page numbers, allowing the reader to find where that particular idea or statistic was sourced.
The term is infrequently used, as the number of letters is usually specified: Some multigraphs are considered ligatures, or letters unto themselves, such as ⟨ij⟩ in Dutch, ⟨dzs⟩ in Hungarian, and ⟨dž⟩ in Serbo-Croatian and a few other Slavic languages.
Previously this sign could also appear above the medial form of kāf, instead of the stroke on its ascender.
Bell, who introduced them in his edition of the British Classics [published in the 1780s and 1790s].
He was regarded as a pioneer in the development of the writing of the Luganda language, and held prominent positions in the Ugandan colonial government of the day.
(In some typefaces, one or other or both of these characters are designed in these styles; they are not produced by overstrike or by combining diacritic.
Two contrasting philosophies exist with regard to emergent readers learning to associate letters to speech sounds in English.
It may be used to separate a person's given and family names, such as transcribing the name of Galileo Galilei as: ガリレオ゠ガリレイ.
Sometimes intervocalic b and m is silent: as in ᠳᠡᠪᠡᠯ debel (Khalkha: дээл deel) 'robe, garment' or ᠬᠦᠮᠦᠨ kümün (Khalkha: хүн khün) 'human, person; man'.
For example, a blank statement (a semicolon by itself) stands for a NOP in C/C++, which is useful in busy waiting synchronization loops.
The now final forms ן ץ ף ך‎ predate their non-final counterparts; They were the default forms used in any position within a word.
For example, one might send a message reading "*morning" or "morning*" to correct the misspelling in the message "I had a good mroning".
[3] Paper by Wiebke Petersen on 'A Mathematical Analysis of Pāṇini’s Śiva sūtras.' [4] Paper by Madhav Deshpande on 'Who Inspired Pāṇini?
This can be contrasted with the older way of abbreviating et cetera, namely &c., where ⟨&⟩ is used to represent et as a full loanword, not a heterogram.
A meme known as "Mocking SpongeBob" more broadly popularized using alternating caps to convey a mocking tone starting in May 2017, leading to alternating caps becoming a mainstream method of conveying mockery in text.
Many Spanish words are similar or identical to English words, but with an "n" inserted, or replacing an "m", leading to errors: "inmigrant" from "inmigrante", "cementery" from "cementerio", "confortable" instead of "comfortable".
This principle applies in particular to the standardization in the receiver language of exonyms when they are used in publications.
Depending on the classification, it is considered the Southern or Southeastern variety of the ǃKung (also rendered ǃXun) language cluster.
Jawi nya In the Jawi alphabet, the letter nya is a modified form of the letter nūn with two additional dots.
The section sign is frequently used along with the pilcrow (or paragraph sign), ¶, to reference a specific paragraph within a section of a document.
Ethiopic (Geʽez) The Ethiopic (Geʽez) script appears in southern Arabia during periods of Aksumite presence, especially in the 6th century.
For example, hitobito, "people", is usually written 人々, using the kanji for 人 with an iteration mark, 々, rather than 人人, using the same kanji twice.
The nasal tilde is sometimes mistaken for the tone mark ngã in modern reproductions of early Vietnamese writing, such as in Phạm Thế Ngũ's Việt Nam văn học sử.
The writings are not arranged chronologically, however, and so they serve only as an approximate guide for determining the age of the manuscript.
This revision created the standard script, known as tongki fuka sindaha hergen (Manchu: ᡨ᠋ᠣᠩᡴᡳ ᡶ᠋ᡠᡴᠠ ᠰᡳᠨ᠋ᡩ᠋ᠠᡥᠠ ᡥᡝᡵᡤᡝᠨ) — the "script with dots and circles".
The seven Yoruba vowels (⟨a⟩, ⟨e⟩, ⟨ẹ⟩, ⟨i⟩, ⟨o⟩, ⟨ọ⟩, ⟨u⟩) can be uttered in three different tones: high (acute accent); middle (no accent) and low (grave accent).
Another example is the tonal difference between ainm [ɛnɛm] and anam [anam], the latter of which has the tonal contour appropriate to a disyllable.
Wiki link markup Camel case is used in some wiki markup languages for terms that should be automatically linked to other wiki pages.
However, a ligature such as |fi|, that is treated in some typefaces as a single unit, is arguably not a glyph as this is just a design choice of that typeface, essentially an allographic feature, and includes more than one grapheme.
Dearborn (February 1, 1875 – July 28, 1937) worked as a shorthand instructor and trainer of shorthand teachers at Simmons College, Columbia University, and several other institutions.
Lowercase the second word after a hyphenated prefix (e.g., Mid-, Anti-, Super-, etc.) in compound modifiers (e.g., Mid-year, Anti-hero, etc.).
This is also sometimes still used in Taiwan for important officials, such as Chiang Kai-shek and Sun Yat-sen, although this practice has gradually fallen out of favor.
In the late 1930s the Latinization campaign was canceled and all newly romanized languages were converted to Cyrillic.
Exactly what Caps Lock does depends on the keyboard hardware, the operating system, the device driver, and the keyboard layout.
At this time Psycharis was assistant to the professor of Greek at the École spéciale des Langues orientales in Paris, and My Journey described an 1886 visit he had made to Constantinople, Chios and Athens.
Shuang tai Shuang tai (Chinese: 雙抬, literally "double shift") as above, but two characters above a normal line.
In the official version of the Even script in 1947, the digraph нг was officially canceled, but in 1954 it was restored again.
The lack of word parsing forced the reader to distinguish elements of the script without a visual aid, but it also presented the reader with more freedom to interpret the text.
Roman square capitals, also called capitalis monumentalis, inscriptional capitals, elegant capitals and capitalis quadrata, are an ancient Roman form of writing, and the basis for modern capital letters.
Typing "DIR/W" gave the "wide" option to the "DIR" command, so some other method was needed if one actually wanted to run a program called W inside a directory called DIR).
In all cases, the Enter key may vary between this L-shaped key on two rows, and the horizontal key on the third row only (moving the key assigned to letter Ǝ to the end of the second row).
Arabic speaking Christians belonging to the Byzantine rite from the Levant (Lebanon, Palestine, and Syria) produced many liturgical items in this medium.
Historically, it represented either a pharyngealized /sˤ/ or an affricate such as the Modern Hebrew pronunciation or Geʽez [t͡sʼ]; which became [t͡s] in Ashkenazi Hebrew.
Since dictionaries adopted the new spellings early on, there is no currently in-print, standard reference work available for traditional spellings.
Traditionally, English-speaking countries (except South Africa) employed commas as the delimiter—10,000—and other European countries employed periods (full stops) or spaces: 10.000 or 10 000.
Some of these words have a Hebrew word equivalent, and that equivalent had totally lost the beginning aleph.
As political parties are often named after philosophies or ideologies, a capital letter is used to differentiate between a supporter of the philosophy, and a supporter of the party, for instance Liberal, a supporter of any Liberal Party, and liberal, a supporter of the philosophy of liberalism.
Some versions of the Apple Messages app are unable to properly handle Zalgo text, and will crash if they try to render a message that contains such text.
Morphophonology (also morphophonemics or morphonology) is the branch of linguistics that studies the interaction between morphological and phonological or phonetic processes.
An ideogram or ideograph (from Greek idéa 'idea' + gráphō 'to write') is a symbol that is used within a given writing system to represent an idea or concept in a given language.
Charles Butler (1571 – 29 March 1647), sometimes called the Father of English Beekeeping, was a logician, grammarian, author, priest (Vicar of Wootton St Lawrence, near Basingstoke, England), and an influential beekeeper.
Sentence 2 is compound because "so" is considered a coordinating conjunction in English, and sentence 3 is complex.
Daytshmerish (Yiddish: דײַטשמעריש) is a Yiddish derogatory term for Germanized variety of Yiddish orthography, style of speaking, and vocabulary.
For example, the letter O and the figure 0 have similar shape but have different meanings; the three letters A, Α and А look identical but are characters from three different scripts (Latin, Greek and Cyrillic).
See also Annotation – Item of metadata attached to a document Aristarchian symbols – Marks to annotate ancient Greek texts Dagger (mark) – Typographical symbol (†).
Other writers have noted that eye dialect has sometimes been used in derisive fashion toward ethnic or regional pronunciation, in particular by contrasting standard spelling with non-standard spelling to emphasize differences.
Among the Italian consonants, both /s/ and /z/ are written ⟨s⟩, and both /t͡s/ and /d͡z/ are written ⟨z⟩; stress and hiatus are also not reliably distinguished.
In languages such as Quenya, which do not contain any voiced fricatives other than "v", the raised stem + doubled bow row is used for the common nasal+stop sequences (nt, mp, nk, nqu).
The asterisk was one of several symbols developed by scholars of Homeric poetry at the Library of Alexandria over 2,000 years ago.
Balanced literacy Balanced literacy is not well defined; however, it is intended as a method that combines elements of both phonics and whole language.
In order to avoid it being confused with the equals sign =, the double hyphen is often shown as a double oblique hyphen in modern typography.
In such circumstances, the spelling pronunciation may well become more comprehensible than the other.
The resulting glyphs may look quite different in shape and style from the reference character or each other, but nevertheless their meaning remains the same.
This set of letters is known acronymically as אותיות מנצפ"ך‎ (otiyot menetzepekh, 'MNTzPK letters').
The Arabic letters ﺙ, ﺫ, ﻅ, representing the Arabic interdentals /θ, ð, ð̣/ may be used in etymological spellings of loanwords, but they are often replaced by ﺕ, ﺩ, ﺽ, in accordance with Shilha pronunciation, e.g.
See also Dagger (typography) Comma Textual criticism Annotation Marginalia Proofreading marks == References ==
Spelling reform Charles Butler published The English grammar (1633) with proposals to improve spelling to a phonetic alphabet.
Garg, the merchants of India used special scripts and each region had its own particular name for their script, such as Mundi, Modi, Mudiya, Mahajani, and Sarafi.
In his book, Butler condemned the vagaries of traditional English spelling and proposed the adoption of a system whereby 'men should write altogeđer according to đe sound now generally received'.
The system is not completely standardized, and, given the differences between dialects and speakers, many words have more than one “correct” spelling and pronunciation.
A phonemic orthography is an orthography in which the graphemes correspond consistently to the language's phonemes, or more generally to the language's diaphonemes.
There are surviving examples of blockprinted amulets containing Arabic words in the Coptic alphabet, probably intended to be sold to Coptic Christians.
Many nouns have irregular plurals, such as jù (person, plural jú), and the plural form of a noun is not predictable.
Code reference See also Dash#Swung dash Tilde#Unicode and Shift JIS encoding of wave dash Japanese punctuation#Wave dash == References ==
However, only one book was published in this alphabet - a translation of the textbook of arithmetic (Арифметика.
Use The character is used in many Polynesian languages as ʻokina, a unicameral consonant letter used within the Latin script to mark the phonemic glottal stop.
For example, the Mandarin Chinese name for the capital of the People's Republic of China is Beijing using the commonly used contemporary system Hànyǔ Pīnyīn, but in the historically significant Wade–Giles system, it is written Pei-Ching.
{\displaystyle {\underline {v}}=\mathbf {v} =\left[v_{1}\;v_{2}\right]^{\mathbf {T} }.} complex numbers.
Other languages (for instance, some assembly languages and LISP dialects, CONFIG.SYS and INI files) use semicolons to mark the beginning of comments.
In the theory of writing systems, homophony (from the Greek: ὁμός, homós, "same" and Greek: φωνή, phōnē, "sound") refers to the presence or use of different signs (phonograms) for the same syllabic value, i.e.
Comparison Some features include: Using the letter o to represent a final [ɔ] or [o], where Classical Occitan uses a.
They come in four main pairs of shapes, as given in the box to the right, which also gives their names, that vary between British and American English.
This often occurs in the course of transcription; thus a transposition error is a special case of a transcription error.
Breviographs were used frequently by stenographers, law clerks and scriveners, and they were also found in early printed books and tracts.
Masonry (secret society), which is in essence a peculiar use of the word masonry (wall building) – are omitted.
In order to avoid a complete re-typesetting of the entire text for this discrepancy, the publishers commonly shifted 神 so that it also took two spaces and the rest of the text could be typeset identically with 上帝.) Ping tai Ping tai (Chinese: 平抬, literally "level shift") is another form.
He served in Indian Army Pioneer Corps during World War II and was promoted from a private soldier to 2nd lieutenant in January 1941.
Syllabograms tend not to be used for languages with more complicated syllables: for example English phonotactics allows syllables as complex as CCCVCCCC (as in strengths), generating many thousands of possible syllables and making the use of syllabograms cumbersome.
The characters were often depicted bleeding from their eyes, and forum members interpreted Zalgo as an unimaginable, eldritch apocalyptic figure.
While Arabic is dominant in the Arabian Peninsula today, some modern South Arabian languages, though endangered, survive, with several hundred thousand speakers across Yemen (including Socotra) and Oman.
The son-in-law of Maurice Grevisse, he took over editing and updating Grevisse's last book, Le Bon Usage.
It might seem logical that where spell-checking dictionaries are concerned, "the bigger, the better," so that correct words are not marked as incorrect.
This system was widely used within the country but differed from the orthographies of neighboring countries of West Africa, as developed in the wake of the 1966 Bamako expert meeting on harmonizing orthographies of the cross-border languages of the region.
Using camel case between words reduces the number of spaces, and thus the number of characters, in a given message, allowing more content to fit into the limited space.
Morphophonological analysis often involves an attempt to give a series of formal rules or constraints that successfully predict the regular sound changes occurring in the morphemes of a given language.
These substitutions originated in the early history of Esperanto due to the limitations of typewriters, and typically replace the accented letters (ĉ, ĝ, ĥ, ĵ, ŝ, and ŭ) with digraphs or other ASCII-compatible sequences.
In German, for example, the pentagraph tzsch represents the [tʃ] sound of the English digraph ch, and indeed is found in the English word Nietzschean.
However, in some languages a multigraph may be treated as a single unit for the purposes of collation; for example, in a Czech dictionary, the section for words that start with ⟨ch⟩ comes after that for ⟨h⟩.
Some authors, for example, replace þ with th and ð with th, dh or d but keep the accents; others may not replace ǫ with ö but prefer o.
The seven-letter German sequence ⟨schtsch⟩, used to transliterate the Russian and Ukrainian letter ⟨щ⟩, as in ⟨Borschtsch⟩ [bɔʁʃtʃ] for Russian/Ukrainian ⟨борщ⟩ (Russian: [borɕː], Ukrainian: [bɔrʃtʃ]) "borscht", is a sequence of a trigraph ⟨sch⟩ [ʃ] and a tetragraph ⟨tsch⟩ [t͡ʃ].
In the mode of Beleriand, found on the door to Moria, the bottom tyellë is used for nasals (e.g., vala is used for /m/) and the fifth tyellë for doubled nasals (malta for /mm/).
See also Narkamaŭka Differences between Taraškievica and the official orthography References Two Standard Languages within Belarusian: a Case of Bi-cultural Conflict by Ihar Klimaŭ (Belarusian State University of Culture and Arts) - École normale supérieure, 25 March 2006
Rovás Info News Portal Rovas Foundation: Code request for the Rovas script in ISO 15924 (2012-10-20) Jenő Demeczky, György Giczi, Dr.
In Japanese, list items are typically connected either with the particle と ("and") throughout or separated simply by commas, as in 母と父と私 or 母、父、私.
6 August] 1769) was a Russian poet, essayist and playwright who helped lay the foundations of classical Russian literature.
Descendant scripts by type Logographic Oracle bone script, seal script, clerical script, standard script, semi-cursive script, cursive script, traditional Chinese, simplified Chinese, Zetian characters, bowen, sawndip, chữ Hán, chữ Nôm, hanja and kanji.
These differences meant that Katharevousa was only partly intelligible to a Greek without higher education.
Margaret Heffernan (born 1944), is a Central Arrernte linguist, author, interpreter and translator who is now a well respected elder in her community.
Modern use The pilcrow remains in use in modern documents in the following ways: In legal writing, it is often used whenever one cites a specific paragraph within pleadings, law review articles, statutes, or other legal documents and materials.
The most radical proposals involved the Latinization of Yiddish, which had precedents in pre-revolutionary plans like Ludwig Zamenhof's 1909 blueprint.
This is a stylistic variation on the more common + (plus sign) for a check and # (number sign) for checkmate.
The southeastern Iberian script, also known as Meridional Iberian, was one of the means of written expression for the Iberian language, which was primarily written in the northeastern Iberian script and, to a lesser extent, by the Greco-Iberian alphabet.
Monotonic orthography (from Ancient Greek μόνος (mónos) 'single' and τόνος (tónos) 'accent') is the standard system for Modern Greek.
The Commission on the Filipino Language (Filipino: Komisyon sa Wikang Filipino) has published several standardized prescriptive orthographies for select languages of the Philippines.
These nine ancient Greek textual annotation symbols are also included in the supplemental punctuation list of ISO/IEC 10646 standard for character sets.
Comparison chart Note: The bopomofo extended characters in the zhuyin row require a UTF-8 font capable of displaying Unicode values 31A0–31B7 (ex.
Text to be formatted by the recipient The use of SHY characters in text that will be broken into lines by the recipient is the application context considered by the post-1999 HTML and Unicode specifications, as well as some word-processing file formats.
Usually, it is written as fullwidth form in Chinese and Japanese, in Unicode: U+FF1F ？ FULLWIDTH QUESTION MARK.
We are also informed that "he spent several years in sciences among Oxonians, particularly, as it seems, in Gloucester Hall; but that study, which he used for a diversion only, proved at length an employment of profit." He is mentioned for his skill in micrography in Holinshed's Chronicle.
Hismaic Hismaic inscriptions are concentrated in southern Jordan and northwestern Arabia, particularly in the Ḥismā desert.
Relatedly, in ranges that include negative numbers, "to" is used to avoid ambiguity or awkwardness (for example, "temperatures ranged from −18 °C to −34 °C").
The aim of the International Institute of African Languages and Cultures, later renamed the International African Institute (IAI), was to enable people to write for practical and scientific purposes in all African languages without the need of diacritics.
Orthographic complexity also contributes to how dyslexia manifests in readers of different languages.
After 1947, with the need for translation of Bible, Latin scripts for Bunun, Paiwan, Taroko, Atayal, and Amis were created.
Sounds that were transliterated included the aspirated sounds k' (Chinese pinyin: k, ᠺ), k (g, ᡬ), x (h, ᡭ); ts' (c, ᡮ); ts (ci, ᡮ᠊ᡟ); sy (si, ᠰ᠊ᡟ); dz (z, ᡯ); c'y (chi, ᡱᡟ); j'y (zhi, ᡷᡟ); and ž (r, ᡰ).
Morphophonology bridges the gap between morphology and phonology, offering insights into the dynamic interactions between word formation and sound patterns.
Variations on written form/pronunciation The letter Pe is one of the six letters which can receive a Dagesh Kal.
By the Song dynasty, the addition of punctuation to texts by scholars to aid comprehension became common.
However, the 1999 Orthographic Dictionary of the Ukrainian language does not include this exception for church-related loanwords, such as архієпископ (archbishop), архієрей (bishop), архімандрит (archimandrite), клір (clergy), клірик (cleric).
While § is usually read in spoken English as the word "section", many other languages use the word "paragraph" exclusively to refer to a section of a document (especially of legal text), and use other words to describe a paragraph in the English sense.
In HTML5, the tag reappeared but its meaning was changed significantly: it now "represents a span of inline text which should be rendered in a way that indicates that it has a non-textual annotation".
In contrast, ideograms were an identifying feature of the Pahlavi system, and these huzvarishn were words borrowed from Semitic languages such as Aramaic that continued to be spelled as in Aramaic (in Pahlavi script) but were pronounced as the corresponding word in Persian.
With alphabetic writing systems, phonological awareness plays a central role in reading acquisition; while phonological awareness in Chinese is much less important.
History The Sinckan Manuscripts are one of the earliest written materials of several Formosan languages, including Siraya and Taivoan.
Wave dash (U+301C 〜 WAVE DASH) is a character represented in Japanese character encoding mainly used as a dash and chōonpu.
Ligature Because of its frequent occurrence, kai is sometimes abbreviated in Greek manuscripts and in signage, by a ligature (comparable to Latin &), written as ϗ (uppercase variant Ϗ; Coptic variant ⳤ), formed from kappa (κ) with an extra lower stroke.
Lowercase articles (a, an, the), coordinating conjunctions, and prepositions of three letters or fewer.
Most inscriptions containing these symbols are extremely short, making it difficult to judge whether or not these symbols constituted a script used to record a language, or even symbolise a writing system.
Cyrillic In 1936–1937, the Even Latin alphabet, like other alphabets of the peoples of the USSR, was replaced by a Cyrillic alphabet that contained all Russian letters and the digraph Нг нг.
Orthographic transcription is a transcription method that employs the standard spelling system of each target language.
Hebrew kaf Hebrew spelling: כַּף‎ Hebrew pronunciation The letter kaf is one of the six letters that can receive a dagesh kal.
Maggin once accidentally signed his name with an exclamation due to the habit of using them when writing comic scripts; it became his professional name from then on.
With computer memory and computer storage at premium, early character sets were limited to the Latin alphabet, the ten digits and a few punctuation marks and conventional symbols.
About the same time, the Greeks created an additional letter, o mega, probably by writing o micron with an underline, that was used for /ɔː/.
The antiquarian Joseph Hunter was the first to publish all known variations of the spelling of the name, which he did in 1845 in his book Illustrations of the Life, Studies, and Writings of Shakespeare.
Silvio Panciera, "Struttura dei supplementi e segni diacritici dieci anni dopo" in SupIt 8 (1991), pp.
In contrast, paleographers today identify the extinction of scriptio continua as a critical factor in augmenting the widespread absorption of knowledge in the pre-Modern Era.
Sample text Following is a reading and explanation of the frame from a Shaba book illustrated at the top of the page.
Further problems are caused by examples of confusion with English, such as connection (incorrect) and connexion (correct).
During the 5th to 7th centuries the early Bādāmi Chālukyās and early Banavasi Kadambās used an early form of the Kadamba script in inscriptions.
In many books, mention of another part of the same book or mentions the work as a whole will be set in small caps.
History Use of similar gestures has been recorded as early as 1927, and Glenda Farrell used air quotes in a 1937 screwball comedy, "Breakfast for Two." In 1889, in Lewis Carroll's last novel, the author described air brackets and an air question mark.
There were many other such shorthand symbols, to indicate corrections, emendations, deletions, additions, and so on.
Titles The Chicago Manual of Style recommends that the titles of English-language artistic works (plays, novels, essays, paintings, etc.) capitalize the first word and the last word in the title.
An echo vowel, also known as a synharmonic vowel, is a paragogic vowel that repeats the final vowel in a word in speech.
Further investigations will take place with more robust software to discover if there are more letters that have faded.
The Ukrainian orthography of 1933 was approved by the resolution of the People's Commissar of Education of the UkrSSR on September 5, 1933.
The Computer Modern fonts replace it with an "E.T." symbol in the cmti# (text italic) fonts, so it can be entered as {\it\&} in running text when using the default (Computer Modern) fonts.
Kai is a word that is a conjunction meaning "and" in Ancient Greek (καί, kaí, [kǎi̯]), Modern Greek (και, kai, [ce]), Coptic (ⲕⲁⲓ, kai, [cɛ]) and Esperanto (kaj, [kai̯]).
On social media, the trademark symbol has seen use in an ironic fashion, highlighting a concept as if it were important enough to warrant its own trademark, for example, "Official Bisexual Haircut™" or "soon™".
The lower knowledge (apara vidya) includes knowledge of four Vedas, phonetics, grammar, etymology, meter, astrology, and the knowledge of sacrifices and rituals.
External links Overview of the abjad numerological system Sufi numerology site Archived 2012-04-21 at the Wayback Machine Numerical Value of an Arabic Text as per "Abjad" Calculation - www.alavibohra.org Archived 2011-07-05 at the Wayback Machine Abjad Calculator
Example The following passage from Hart's Orthographie, in his original spelling, illustrates the system.
For example, the Cyrillic alphabets adapted to the Caucasian languages, which are phonologically very different from Russian, make extensive use of digraphs, trigraphs, and even a tetragraph in Kabardian ⟨кхъу⟩ for /q͡χʷ/.
In addition, pronunciations change depending on how carefully a person is speaking, how quickly they are speaking, and whether they are in a formal setting or at home.
For example, Unicode character U+0430, Cyrillic small letter a ("а"), can look identical to Unicode character U+0061, Latin small letter a, ("a") which is the lowercase "a" used in English.
There is also a Naxi tradition of pictographic symbols called dongba; this may sometimes be glossed with geba for clarification, since a dongba text may be intelligible only to its author.
Shahmukhi is written from right to left and has 36 primary letters with some other additional letters.
Unicode The Lycian alphabet was added to the Unicode Standard in April, 2008 with the release of version 5.1.
The English Spelling Society, sponsor of the congress, afforded TSR a degree of support and publicity which was due to be reviewed in March 2025.
Title case in references The use of title case or sentence case in the references of scholarly publications is determined by the used citation style and can differ from the usage in title or headings.
The statement of Elia Levita that the Westerns follow Ben Asher, and the Easterns Ben Naphtali, is not without many exceptions.
A heptagraph (from Ancient Greek: ἑπτά, heptá 'seven' and γράφω, gráphō 'write') is a sequence of seven letters used to represent a single sound (phoneme), or a combination of sounds, that do not correspond to the individual values of the letters.
Whitaker, "Lacunae and the id est Brevigraph in Oxford, Bodleian Library, MS Bodley 283," Manuscripta 36, no.
"Pazand texts, transcribed phonetically, represent a late and often corrupt Middle Persian pronunciation, and so present their own problems." "The corruptions during this process are sometimes considerable." Among the transcribed texts are the prefaces (dibacheh) to prayers in Avestan.
The victims may never notice the difference, until suspicious or criminal activity occurs with their accounts.
Many characters often explained as semantic compounds were originally phono-semantic compounds that have been obscured in this way.
Isidore of Seville remarks in his Etymologiae (I.21.13) that the diple was used to mark quotations from the Bible.
An open source implementation of UCA is included with the International Components for Unicode, ICU.
The letters ⟨nge⟩, when final, represent /ndʒ/, as in orange; when not final their pronunciation varies according to the word's etymology (e.g.
The system was further refined by his student Aristophanes of Byzantium, who first introduced the asterisk and used a symbol resembling a ⊤ for an obelus; and finally by Aristophanes' student, in turn, Aristarchus, from whom they earned the name of "Aristarchian symbols".
The Mundi script spread to other parts of India by the 17th or 18th century, with it having influence on merchant records written in Karnataka in Kannada script, particularly the form and style of writing.
The dispute over whether to adhere to or make an exception to Wikipedia's guideline stretched to over 40,000 words.
In Italian and Romanian, the orthographic convention for representing /k/ before front vowels is to add ⟨h⟩ (Italian chiaro, [ˈkjaːro] 'clear').
The English language uses a rather large set of 13 to 21 vowel phonemes, including diphthongs, although its 22 to 26 consonants are close to average.
In English writing the tittle is a diacritic which appears only as part of these glyphs, but diacritic dots can appear over other letters in various languages.
Features overlap each other in time, as do suprasegmental phonemes in oral language and many phonemes in sign languages.
In addition to the extensive use of newspaper and magazine ads, Speedwriting gained publicity from a few unsolicited endorsements.
breabhaid "sortie", deabhaidh "haste, skirmish", feabhais "improvement" (gen), leabhair "books", meabhair "minds".
Modern Hebrew uses the forms פ כ‎ finally, when transcribing a plosive pronunciation, for example מיקרוסקופ‎ (microscope), מובארכ‎ (Mubarak, مبارك), while their final forms ף ך‎, are transcribing a fricative pronunciation, for example כך‎ (Kach), שף‎ (Chef).
The original symbol set, SSS-95, was limited in size due to memory constraints in personal computers at the time.
Historically, in Germany and Austria, thousands separators were occasionally denoted by alternating uses of commas and points, e.g.
Undertie The undertie is used to represent linking (absence of a break) in the International Phonetic Alphabet.
There's no clear consensus." Regardless, some far-right users of Twitter saw the tweet as a genuine signal of support for antisemitism, and other users found the tweet to be in poor taste even as a joke.
The text decoration property supports also other typographical features with horizontal lines: underline (a line below the text) and strikethrough (a line through the text).
Traditionally, scriptio continua was used for the Indic alphabets of South and Southeast Asia and hangul of Korea, but spacing is now used with hangul and increasingly with the Indic alphabets.
The semicolon, as a mark separating statements, corresponds to the ordinary English usage of separating independent clauses and gives the entire program the gross syntax of a single ordinary sentence.
Two modern well-known examples of syllabaries consisting mostly of CV syllabograms are the Japanese kana, used to represent the same sounds in different occasions.
The Sūtrakāra (author of the Sūtras) restored a form of Advaitism by discriminating between the names and functions of akṣara and puruṣa while maintaining their ultimate unity in a single goal.
Ancient Greek had distinctive vowel length: five short vowels, /i e a o u/, and seven long vowels, /iː eː ɛː aː ɔː oː uː/.
A "dotted lunate sigma" (σίγμα περιεστιγμένον) Ͼ was used by him as an editorial sign indicating that the line so-marked is at an incorrect position in the surrounding text; an antisigma, or "reversed lunate sigma" Ͻ, may also mark an out of place line.
Contemporary systems like musical and mathematical notation, computer icons, and emoji have also been characterized as semasiographies.
No effect of phonologically related context pictures were found for the reaction times for reading Chinese words.
He wanted to simplify the spelling so that, in his eyes, people and learners would have an easier time.
It was one of the two main scripts used by merchants in northwest India, the other being Langdi employed in the Punjab region.
In the conjugation of verbs, in both the indicative and the conditional modes, ⟨կ⟩ is added directly, without an apostrophe before vowels or ⟨ը⟩ before consonants.
This can cause uneven spacing in the text, but can be mitigated by the use of thin spaces, hair spaces, or even zero-width spaces on the sides of the em dash.
They were used to highlight missing text, text which was discrepant between sources, and text which appeared in the wrong place.
As with other impure abjads, such as the Hebrew alphabet, scribes devised means of indicating vowel sounds by separate vowel diacritics later on in the development of the script.
There are six vowel letters, one for each of the four oral vowels of Lycian, and separate letters for two of the four nasal vowels.
Other laboratory-based studies of Tall Man lettering show a mixture of positive and null results, which may be further complicated due to demand characteristics of some of the studies.
A speaker may alternatively say "quote" before and "unquote" after quoted words, or say "quote unquote" before or after the quoted words, or pause before and emphasize the parts in quotes.
For languages with relatively shallow orthographies, such as Italian and Finnish, new readers have few problems learning to decode words.
The letter hamza is the only letter of the Arabic alphabet that lacks a final, initial or medial form, only its alone or isolated form, as it is an unlinked letter.
diff output - is used to denote deleted lines in diff output in the context format or the unified format.
Areas of significance Case sensitivity may differ depending on the situation: Searching: Users expect information retrieval systems to be able to have correct case sensitivity depending on the nature of an operation.
Syllabification and spelling Hyphens are occasionally used to denote syllabification, as in syl-la-bi-fi-ca-tion.
List of tetragraphs Latin script Cyrillic script In Cyrillic used for languages of the Caucasus, there are tetragraphs as doubled digraphs used for 'strong' consonants (typically transcribed in the IPA as geminate), and also labialized homologues of trigraphs.
In the latter case, they both contributed enough significant material to the screenplay to receive credit but did not work together.
In Maghrebian Abjad order: For four Persian letters these values are used: Similar systems The Abjad numerals are equivalent to the earlier Hebrew numerals up to 400.
The Pe̍h-ōe-jī of Taiwanese Hokkien and Pha̍k-fa-sṳ of Taiwanese Hakka were also created with by the western missionaries.
(It appears to be an overgeneralization on the part of the al-Kitāb writers.) Overview tables The letter ط ‎ (ṭ) stands here for any consonant.
Possessives in business names Where a business name is based on a family name it should in theory take an apostrophe, but many leave it out (contrast Sainsbury's with Harrods).
It is pronounced, however, such that neither the lips touch together nor the tongue touches the palate.
A pallawa is used to separate rhythmico-intonational groups, thus functionally corresponding to the full stop and comma of the Latin script.
Formally speaking, a collation method typically defines a total order on a set of possible identifiers, called sort keys, which consequently produces a total preorder on the set of items of information (items with the same identifier are not placed in any defined order).
The earliest form of the conventions was agreed at a meeting of classical scholars at the University of Leiden in the Netherlands in 1931, and published the following year.
Following this alphabet came a published dictionary (1859, reprinted in 1900) and the Gospel of Matthew (1880).
Key advantages include needing less runtime storage and the ability to correct errors in words that are not included in a dictionary.
It can be used between two characters with spacing as punctuation, non-spacing as a diacritic, or (underneath) as a proofreading mark.
The Pan-Nigerian alphabet is a set of 33 Latin letters standardised by the National Language Centre of Nigeria in the 1980s.
Syntactical-deductive The colon introduces the logical consequence, or effect, of a fact stated before.
He was born in London in 1547, and is described by Anthony Wood as a "most dexterous person in his profession, to the great wonder of scholars and others".
The Unicode block for Lycian is U+10280–U+1029F: See also Letoon trilingual Lycian language Notes References Adiego, I.
Chinese character The CJK Symbols and Punctuation block contains one Chinese character: U+3007 〇 IDEOGRAPHIC NUMBER ZERO.
Within each example sentence, the parenthetical phrase is the portion that is displayed in an italic font.
Prior to its use as an antisemitic label or identifier, ((( screen name ))) had been used in online communities such as AOL to indicate that a user was "cyberhugging" the user with the specified screen name.
However, when those letters are pronounced separately, as in compound words like Eingabe (input) or also in verbs like fingieren (to feign), both the n and the hard g is clearly audible.
In morphology, the ending ⟨-а⟩/⟨-у⟩ denoting genitive case is regulated as ⟨-а⟩, as in Russian, and not as ⟨-у⟩, as in certain modern dialects.
The human brain does have language centers (for spoken and gestural communication), but written language is a cultural artifact, and a very complex one requiring brain regions designed to recognize and interpret written symbols as representations of language in rapid synchronization.
Many languages written in the Latin alphabet make use of diacritics, and those letters using diacritics are sometimes considered separate letters within the language's alphabet.
In the narrow width of a newspaper column this saving counts for more than elsewhere, which is why the omission is so nearly universal in journalism.
James Park (Bronx); there is not one in the King James Bible either since, like the Hebrew Bible, it is a description and not a possessive.
Some other Semitic languages, including Northwest Semitic languages, are attested, including Aramaic and Hebrew.
Capitals are generally found in certain triggering contexts that do not change the meaning of a word: a proper name, for example, or at the beginning of a sentence, or all caps in a newspaper headline.
This Centre disseminates all the linguistic resources, tools & applications which have been developed under TDIL funding.
In metrical texts, a double daṇḍa is used to delimit verses, and a single daṇḍa to delimit a pada, line, or semi-verse.
It is used as a distinct punctuation mark in Ojibwe language publications in the Fiero Roman orthography, as a hyphen is used to separate compound preverb units regardless of their line position, while a double hyphen is used to divide a word at the end of a line and can be treated as a soft hyphen.
Yiddish diacritics may also be applied to words that are otherwise written entirely with traditional orthography.
Khojki script Khojki, or Khojiki ( Sindhi: خوجڪي (Arabic script) खोजकी (Devanagari)), is a script used formerly and almost exclusively by the Khoja community of parts Sindh.
The diphthongs only appears with the single form of i, as in ᠳᠠᠯᠠᠢ dalai̯ 'sea', at the end of words.
On the English Wikipedia, for example, a search for friendly fire returns the military article, but Friendly Fire (capitalized "Fire") returns the disambiguation page.
See also Filipino alphabet Filipino orthography Dambana Baybayin Kawi script Philippine Braille == References ==
It was an extension of the Greek alphabet, with half a dozen additional letters for sounds not found in Greek.
Each series is headed by the basic signs composed of a vertical stem descending below the line, and a single bow.
The journal was edited for 26 years (1987–2012) by Sharon Poggenpohl of the Illinois Institute of Technology's Institute of Design, with administrative offices at the Rhode Island School of Design.
The same scholars' collection of songs has some orthographic differences from the table below; namely, long vowels are occasionally written not just doubled but also with an intervening silent ᠭ (ɣ), showing clear orthographic influence from the Mongolian language.
Professor at the Université Catholique de Louvain, he was also the president of the Conseil international de la langue française.
The Leiden Conventions or Leiden system is an established set of rules, symbols, and brackets used to indicate the condition of an epigraphic or papyrological text in a modern edition.
Intentionally omitted information Many applications of the dinkus, including those that were common historically, have indicated intentional omission of information.
The word ʾabjad (أبجد) itself derives from the first four letters (A-B-G-D) of the Semitic alphabet, including the Aramaic alphabet, Hebrew alphabet, Phoenician alphabet, and other scripts for Semitic languages.
It introduced, among other reforms, the precursors to the diacritic signs ´ and ˇ which are now besides Czech used in the Baltic languages Lithuanian and Latvian, in other Slavic languages like Croatian, Slovak, Slovenian and partly Polish, and in several other European languages.
Uncial script The majuscule, i.e., a system where text is written entirely in capital letters, was used until the 8th century, when the minuscule polytonic supplanted it.
Use Use of the trademark symbol indicates an assertion that a word, image, or other sign is a trademark; it does not indicate registration or impart enhanced protections.
A system of diacritic marks, or pointing, was later developed to resolve the ambiguities, and over the centuries became nearly universal.
It leaves a full-width (1 character wide) space before the first character of the person; it can be represented as Unicode character U+3000 IDEOGRAPHIC SPACE.
Notable examples of square capitals used for inscriptions are found on the Roman Pantheon, Trajan's Column, and the Arch of Titus, all in Rome.
Typology and variants The basic Celtiberian signary contains 26 signs rather than the 28 signs of the original model; the Celtiberians omitted one of the two rhotic and one of the three nasals of the northeastern Iberian script.
His name is most likely Abu Imran, Moshe ben David ben Naphtali as preserved in Mishael ben Uzziel's 11th century treatise and in the Cairo Geniza fragment T-S K27.36 in the University Library at Cambridge.
Some educated Jews saw Yiddish as a lower-class slang (זשאַרגאָן, zhargon, "jargon") that could be 'improved' by inserting German terms.
Occurrence and appearance Inverted nuns are found in nine passages of the Masoretic Text of the Bible.
The change began in the 7th century, and by the 14th century, the protoscholastic model was the standard.
Meaning The Washington Post calls air quotes "a snide, easy way to discredit or distance oneself from the other side’s words." See also Irony punctuation == References ==
Observances June 28 and October 22 are semiannually observed as International Caps Lock Day as a parody holiday created in October 2000 by Derek Arnold, a user on MetaFilter.
Because they have separate code points, even allographs like upper- versus lower-case letters may be treated as different characters by some computer applications (e.g., case-dependent passwords).
In typography, an asterism, ⁂, is a typographic symbol consisting of three asterisks placed in a triangle, which is used for a variety of purposes.
This is occasionally also done for the Dutch U, though this is formally only required when referring to a deity and may be considered archaic.
It was introduced to make texts for scholars easier to read and comprehend, a necessary function for the more technical concepts introduced by Aristotle.
In orthography, a plene scriptum (Latin for 'fully written') is a word containing an additional letter, usually one which is superfluous – not normally written in that word – nor needed for the proper comprehension of the word.
Sarmiento’s proposal Twenty years later, during his second exile in Chile (1840–1851), Domingo Faustino Sarmiento put forward a proposal similar to Bello’s.
Named for a 2004 Internet creepypasta story that ascribes it to the influence of an eldritch deity, Zalgo text has become a significant component of many Internet memes, particularly in the "surreal meme" culture.
Some publications claim that "Тунгусский букварь" (in English, "Tungus language children's primer (or ABC-book), written 1858), as well as the dictionary and translation of the Gospel of Matthew that followed it, were in the Evenki language.
The identity of a letter in the middle of a word is obscured by the presence of its neighboring letters.
A sentence in capitals, buried deep within a long paragraph in capitals will probably not be deemed conspicuous...it is entirely possible for text to be conspicuous without being in capitals.
When Morse code is written out as text, overlines are used to distinguish prosigns and other concatenated character groups from strings of individual characters.
Notably, the poet Hovhannes Tumanyan, chairman of the Union of Armenian Writers, expressed his discontent in a letter to the Soviet of Popular Commissars, written in May 1922.
On May 17, 1919, the Ukrainian Academy of Sciences approved the "Main Rules of Ukrainian Orthography", which became the basis for all subsequent revisions and amendments.
Concurrency operator In calculi of communicating processes (like pi-calculus), the vertical bar is used to indicate that processes execute in parallel.
Traditional characters Proponents of the counterargument posit that the speed advantage of simplified Chinese becomes less relevant in the internet age.
In German, Slovene and some other Slavic languages, the underscore has recently gained prominence as the punctuation to form gender-neutral suffixes in gendered nouns and other parts of the speech.
See also Cave Beck Constructed language Emoji Engineered language Ideogram Jacob Linzbach Joseph de Maimieux Philosophical language == References ==
A fifth symbol, the punctus flexus was added in the 10th century to indicate a pause of a value between the punctus and punctus elevatus.
A user who does not pay proper attention to the Caps Lock indicator might type the wrong password (in which all small letters become capital letters or vice versa).
Colours: Notes: Hamza in other Arabic-script alphabets Jawi alphabet In the Jawi alphabet (Arabic script used to write Malay), hamza is used for various purposes, but is rarely used to denote a glottal stop except in certain Arabic loanwords.
The purpose of inventing this script was to implement capital letters into the Arabic script to be used similarly to English capital letters—which it does very well.
On the other hand, the pratyāhāra haL is always used in the meaning "all consonants"—Pāṇini never uses pratyāhāras to refer to sets consisting of a single phoneme.
Kanji is a writing system that makes use of morphograms, where Chinese characters were borrowed to represent native morphemes because of their meanings.
According to some contemporaries, parishioners had to reserve an appointment for the confessional ten days in advance.
↑↑↑↑ Albanian officially has the digraphs ⟨dh, gj, ll, nj, rr, sh, th, xh, zh⟩, which is sufficient to represent the Tosk dialect.
At present, all languages of the Philippines may be written using the modern Filipino alphabet (officially adopted in 1987), which includes all the letters of the Abakada.
See also Alphabetic principle Defective script Phonetic transcription Spelling Morphophonology Orthographic depth Orthographic transcription == References ==
The device has a variety of uses, and it usually denotes an intentional omission or a logical "break" of varying degree in a written work.
To limit the scope to common words, the top 350 words are considered (according to various sources).
Examples include the logos of the Norwegian newspapers Aftenpoſten and Adresſeaviſen; the packaging logo for Finnish Siſu pastilles; and the German Jägermeiſter logo.
Although these forms were prescribed to be pronounced differently, the difference was not usually observed in everyday speech; pronunciations were used interchangeably, the one with и being more common.
In telling legends or relating something that happened, words can be drawn out for emphasis, or said quickly to emphasize an abrupt or sudden event.
The character is referred to as a hyphen, a minus sign, or a dash according to the context where it is being used.
From the inside out, each parenthesis represents perceived Jewish involvement in mass media, mass immigration, and global Zionism.
Various missionaries, colonial administrators, and scholarly researchers devised various ways of writing Fulfulde with Latin to ease the efforts of European colonisation.
All other remaining records of 17th century Gaelic verse were committed to paper only after surviving for a hundred years or more as oral literature.
As a result, both & and and may appear in the same credit, as appropriate to how the writing proceeded.
While acronyms have historically been written in all-caps, British, Finnish, Swedish and some German usage has moved towards capitalizing only the first letter in cases when these are pronounced as words (e.g.
The term was coined by George Philip Krapp to refer to a literary technique that implies the standard pronunciation of a given word that is not well-reflected by its standard spelling, such as wimmin to represent more accurately the typical English pronunciation of women.
The alphabet has since been superseded by the adoption of the Filipino alphabet (with an additional eight letters and repositioning of the letter K) in 1987.
An asterism used this way is thus a type of dinkus: nowadays this usage of the symbol is nearly obsolete.
A homograph is a word that is written the same as another word, but which (usually) has a different meaning.
Dearborn organized a corporation in 1924 and rebranded her shorthand system under the name of Speedwriting.
Transitive verbs take the irregular plural form when the object is plural, whereas intransitive verbs take the irregular plural when the subject is plural.
Another way of describing interlingual homographs is to say that they are orthographically identical, since a language's orthography describes the rules for writing the language: spelling, diacritics, capitalization, hyphenation, word dividers, etc.
In 1937 the Works Progress Administration sponsored free Speedwriting classes as part of its Emergency Education Program.
In some cases, the identical spelling of a word in two languages is coincidental; in other cases, it is because they descend from the same ancestor word.
An interlingual homograph is a word that occurs in more than one written language, but which has a different meaning or pronunciation in each language.
Vowels Independent vowels Numerals Unicode Although the alphabets for Telugu and Kannada languages could have been encoded under a single Unicode block with language-specific fonts to differentiate the styles, they were encoded separately by the governments due to socio-political reasons.
In the 1990s, more than three-quarters of newspapers in the western world used lower-case letters in headline text.
In Japanese, iteration marks called odoriji (踊り字, "dancing mark"), kasaneji (重ね字), kurikaeshikigō (繰り返し記号), or hanpukukigō (反復記号, "repetition symbols") are used to represent a duplicated character representing the same morpheme.
Japanese is an example of a writing system that can be written using a combination of logographic kanji characters and syllabic hiragana and katakana characters; as with many non-alphabetic languages, alphabetic romaji characters may also be used as needed.
The Aramaic style in which the text is composed is of a literary standard nature and follows a conventional transliteration system of the Aramaic phonemes in cuneiform syllable signs (e.g.
The two nuns are similar to khaf and reish – to say that they are ach and rak ("only" and "however").
However, consonant clusters were separated with echo vowels: the city of Knossos is written as if it were Konoso (Linear B: 𐀒𐀜𐀰, ko-no-so).
"This time", he told Belgian newspaper Le Soir, "it's like 2,000 pieces of a puzzle have been thrown into the air.
This is evident, for example, in some editions of Album for the Young by composer Robert Schumann (№ 21, 26, and 30).
Misspellings of French words outside the French language occur often and account for part of the etymology of some modern loanwords in English, such as English "caddie".
CEO Jonathan Greenblatt explained that the symbol was "the online equivalent of tagging a building with anti-Semitic graffiti or taunting someone verbally", and that the ADL was "working with our partners in the tech industry to investigate this phenomenon more deeply".
1531 - 4 March 1609) was a 16th-century English phonetician and printer who devised a 40-letter phonetic alphabet for the English language.
In this tradition, possessive pronouns are also capitalized if one is quoting God; "My" and "Mine" are capitalized, which should not be done when a human speaks.
Daniel Jones became the first linguist in the western world to use the term phoneme in its current sense, employing the word in his article "The phonetic structure of the Sechuana Language".
In an alphabetic writing system, a silent letter is a letter that, in a particular word, does not correspond to any sound in the word's pronunciation.
It may be used as a diacritic to derive new letters from old ones, or simply as an addition to make a grapheme more distinct from others.
Many errors are caused by homonyms; for example, French contains hundreds of words ending with IPA [εn] written as -ène, -en, -enne or -aine.
These scripts in turn gave rise to many of the most important scripts of India, including Devanāgarī (the most common script used for writing Sanskrit since the 19th century), the Gurmukhī script for Punjabi, the Bengali-Assamese script and the Tibetan script.
Evil makes exaggerated use of air quotes when explaining matters to his henchmen, particularly while using real phrases he erroneously believes himself to have coined such as "laser" and "Death Star." Donald Trump used air quotes when he criticized “quote-President” Obama's refugee policies.
Термінологічно-правописний порадник для богословів та редакторів богословських текстів (in Ukrainian)
For example, Since CSS styles the text, and no actual case transformation is applied, readers are still able to copy the normally-capitalized plain text from the web page as rendered by a browser.
The symbol -, known in Unicode as hyphen-minus, is the form of hyphen most commonly used in digital documents.
Both Adobe Postscript and the X Window System misspelled the symbol as "guillemot" (a type of seabird) and wrote these misspellings into symbols used in computer file formats so they cannot be fixed.
An example is 來; lái; 'come', written with the character for a similar-sounding word meaning 'wheat'.
In LaTeX mathematical mode, the ASCII vertical bar produces a vertical line, and \| creates a double vertical line (a | b \| c is set as a | b ‖ c {\displaystyle a|b\|c} ).
When used as stand-alone, it would combine unintentionally with a preceding character (possibly a space): Diacritic ̒ used alone between regular spaces Diacritic ◌̒ used after a character Using the generic dotted circle character also shows the relative positioning of the diacritic.
It is used in the orthography of Tundra Nenets to denote a glottal stop, in the Enets and Nganasan alphabets and in the orthography of Dan to indicate that a syllable has a top tone.
The six-letter sequence ⟨schsch⟩ appears in German; for example, in the name Eschscholtz (and thus is the scientific name Eschscholtzia of the California poppy).
Guest editor-authors have included Colin Banks, John Cage, Adrian Frutiger, Dick Higgins, Richard Kostelanetz, Craig Saper, and George Steiner.
In some of the Dene languages of the Northwest Territories in Canada, specifically North Slavey, South Slavey, Tłı̨chǫ and Dëne Sųłıné, all instances of i are undotted to avoid confusion with tone-marked vowels í or ì.
These prefatory prayers are invariably written in Pazend because of the need for "accurate" pronunciation.
That is, /i/ is written with a ы rather than a и to show that the г is pronounced /ʁ/ rather than /ɡ/, then the ь is added to show that the ы is pronounced as if it were a и, so the discontinuous digraph ы...ь is used here to write the vowel /i/.
The use of the Avestan alphabet to write Middle Persian required the addition of one symbol to the Avestan alphabet: This character, to represent the /l/ phoneme of Middle Persian, had not previously been needed.
Unicode standard version 15.0 specifies codes for 9 Indic scripts in Chapter 12 titled "South and Central Asia-I, Official Scripts of India".
In these works, he criticises the contemporary spelling practices of his day as chaotic and illogical, and argues for a radically reformed orthography on purely phonological principles.
Volapük has no official method for avoiding the diacritic, but sometimes they are substituted with ay, oy and uy.
The Szarvas inscription refers to the inscription on a bone needle case found near Szarvas in southeastern Hungary and dating from the second half of the 8th century, the "Late Avar" period (700–791).
For example, August derives from the name of Imperator Augustus, who named himself after the word augustus, whence English august came.
Brihadaranyaka Upanishad The eighth brahmana of the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad focuses on the concept of the imperishable (akshara).
The Unicode collation algorithm (UCA) is an algorithm defined in Unicode Technical Report #10, which is a customizable method to produce binary keys from strings representing text in any writing system and language that can be represented with Unicode.
Additionally, she has worked with Margaret James on the Central Arrernte language versions of the Honey Ant Readers.
Thousands were forced to abandon their homes and land, including Christians, Yazidis (given the choice of conversion or death), Shi'a Muslims, and Muslims loyal to other Islamic nations considered apostates by ISIL.
This is due to the many computer fonts and character sets (such as CP1252) that unified the characters into a single code point, and the difficulty of software distinguishing which character is intended by a user's typing.
The following changes were made to the spelling of loanwords: The sound /i/ would be spelled as ⟨i⟩ in open syllables: individu ("individual"), naïveteit ("naïveté"), artikel ("article").
A multigraph (or pleograph) is a sequence of letters that behaves as a unit and is not the sum of its parts, such as English ⟨ch⟩ (typically pronounced ) or French ⟨eau⟩ (pronounced [o]).
One notable exception is in signs for neighborhood associations (町内会, chōnaikai) – the name of neighborhoods often end in "...
It didn't allow time for ceremony and teaching old ways, But nobody asked them." She was allowed to go home at night.
Based on the life of the Carthaginian lady Sophonisba and inspired by ancient tragedies, it was perhaps the first tragedy in early modern times to show deference to the classic rules.
Classic works of literature are typically printed without any changes, unless they are editions specifically intended for use in schools.
Examples of featural systems This is a small list of examples of featural writing systems by date of creation.
(Arabic: لَعِبَ كَثِيرًا؛ فَٱتَّسَخَتْ مَلَابِسُهُ.) It can be used between two clauses, where the second is a reason for the first.
The cantillation accent however is generally not typed, as it plays a completely different role and can occur in the middle of words (it does not mark any word separation), or marked using a different interlinear notation if needed (such as superscripts or other notational symbols).
Vedanta As part of basic instructions of Shiksha and Sanskrit grammar, it is explained that among the word-entities, both, Aksara and Brahman stand out as especially important because both refer to a special form of ritual word.
In rhetoric, a parenthesis (pl.: parentheses; from the Ancient Greek word παρένθεσις parénthesis 'injection, insertion', literally '(a) putting in beside') or parenthetical phrase is an explanatory or qualifying word, phrase, clause, or sentence inserted into a passage.
Reception Notes and references See also English Spelling Society List of reforms of the English language ENGLISH SPELLING SOCIETY Personal View 15 REGSPEL by Stephen Linstead (2014) English accents and their implications for spelling reform J.C.
Word recognition, according to Literacy Information and Communication System (LINCS) is "the ability of a reader to recognize written words correctly and virtually effortlessly".
Kotava uses accented á, é, í, ú in the 1st person singular of the verbal conjugation to express stress.
See also Kaige revision, group of Greek-language Septuagint Bible versions that frequently use Koine Greek: και γε [kai ge] ('and indeed').
Differences between the old and the new orthography The soft sign ⟨ь⟩ /ʲ/ is no longer written when denoting assimilation of 'softness': ⟨песня⟩, ⟨свет⟩, instead of ⟨песьня⟩, ⟨сьвет⟩.
The word mineso in גדול עוני מנשוא (Genesis 4:13) is written in Sephardic Torah scrolls in plene scriptum, with an additional 'waw', but in Yemenite Torah scrolls, the same word mineso is written in defective scriptum, without a 'waw' (i.e.
A codification of the rules of Russian orthography and punctuation and the Spelling Dictionary of the Russian Language were published in 1956 but only a few minor orthographic changes were introduced at that time.
If the isolation form were adopted as the underlying form, the information that there is a final "t" would be lost, and it would then be difficult to explain the appearance of the "t" in the inflected forms.
In many cases, only these substituted characters are accepted by computer programs, and the Unicode angle brackets are not recognised (for instance, in HTML tags).
They use U+FE00 VARIATION SELECTOR-1 (VS01) and U+FE01 VARIATION SELECTOR-2 (VS02): Orientation Quotation marks and other punctuation have expected differences in behaviour in vertical and horizontal text.
However, due to differing opinions among the participants, the Congress spelling did not produce any resolution on the use of both phonemes, and opened the issue for public interpretations.
An important reason for grouping is that it allows rapid judgement of the number of digits, via telling at a glance ("subitizing") rather than counting (contrast, for example, 100 000 000 with 100000000 for one hundred million).
See Neutralization and archiphonemes below, particularly the example of the occurrence of the three English nasals before stops.
This system was not quite a syllabary, because each Japanese syllable could be represented by one of several characters, but from it were derived two syllabaries still in use today.
Another difference is the representation of the phoneme ʀ, instead of simply r as in West Norse, where the ʀ phoneme merged with r earlier.
History On 3 September 1939, Neville Chamberlain, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, reconstructed his existing government so as to be suited for the Second World War.
His Chancellor of the Exchequer, Benjamin Disraeli, was instrumental in passing the Second Reform Act in 1867.
James Stewart Forbes and Lady Angela Forbes, on 9 April 1923, and was divorced from her in June 1928, on the grounds of her adultery with Captain James Roy Notter Garton.
Zetland played an important role in the protracted negotiations which led to the Government of India Act 1935, which began, subject to the implacable opposition of Winston Churchill and the "diehards" to anything that might imperil direct British rule over India, to implement those ideals.
Having won the largest number of seats in the 2007 general election (26 out of 60) the Labour Party sought to form a coalition with a smaller party.
As part of wide criticism of policies, the resignation of many members and in response to the Brexit negotiations, Sturgeon conducted a major cabinet reshuffle in 2018.
Philip Snowden, the evangelical ex-member of the Independent Labour Party (ILP) became a rigidly orthodox Chancellor of the Exchequer, while the next two prominent members of the party, J.
History The first wholly Whig government since 1783 came to power after the Duke of Wellington's Tory government lost a vote of no confidence on 15 November 1830.
The Rason Ministry was the 8th Ministry of the Government of Western Australia and was led by Ministerialist Premier Hector Rason.
The first Salmond government, which was sworn in on 17 May 2007 at the start of the 3rd Scottish Parliament, was an SNP minority government.
Douglas Alexander enters the Cabinet as Secretary of State for Transport and Secretary of State for Scotland.
23): Although the nominal leadership of the regency lay with John, Duke of Bedford (Gloucester's older brother), he spent most of his time ruling the English territories in France.
Whilst in parliament, he became an assistant government whip in 1931, served as a Lord Commissioner of the Treasury from 1932 to 1935, Vice-Chamberlain of the Household 1935–37 and Comptroller of the Household 1937–38.
The Grenville ministry was a British Government headed by George Grenville which served between 16 April 1763 and 13 July 1765.
After the war, Gwynne Jones remained in the Army, receiving a substantive lieutenant's commission in the South Wales Borderers on 24 August 1946 (with seniority from 5 June 1942), and was promoted to captain on 5 December.
Rockingham was noted for his ignorance of foreign affairs, and his ministry failed to reverse the growing isolation of Britain within Europe (Simms 2008, p.
The following ministers were then appointed to the positions, and served until the reconstitution of the Ministry on 30 June 1909.
George III had a strong dislike of the new government because of the way they had replaced his favourite Bute.
McLeish initially supported the war on terror, however, twenty years on he regrets that the war ultimately turned out as a "war on Islam".
The Liberal government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland that began in 1859 and ended in 1866 consisted of two ministries: the second Palmerston ministry and the second Russell ministry.
This majority continued until Peter Law left Labour in 2005 to sit as an independent on the opposition benches, giving the government 29 and the opposition (excluding the Presiding Officer and Deputy) 29.
Notably for the first time in the assembly's history, parties entitled to seats on the executive could instead opt to go into formal opposition.
On 29 January 1944 he was raised to the peerage as Baron Westwood, of Gosforth in the County of Northumberland.
The Speaker and incumbent ministers from the previous Assembly continued in office in caretaker capacity, a new arrangement introduced by the New Decade, New Approach agreement, but this provision expired in October 2022.
He was replaced by Grant Shapps, who was Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero prior to being appointed as Defence Secretary.
Sir Robert Peel's first government succeeded the caretaker ministry of Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington.
Given that it was not considered appropriate for a prime minister to be a member of the House of Lords, Alec Douglas-Home and Lord Hailsham both disclaimed their peerages under the Peerage Act 1963, and became known respectively as Sir Alec Douglas-Home and Quintin Hogg.
In the early 1920s, he spoke in the House of Commons about socialism, the League of Nations, unemployment and Ireland.
Henry Goulburn was Chancellor of the Exchequer, the future Prime Minister Lord Aberdeen Foreign Secretary and Sir James Graham Home Secretary.
It was also Swinney's final attendance to a Scottish Cabinet, having announced his retirement from government after serving under First Minister Alex Salmond and Sturgeon from 2007 until 2023.
Non-ministerial appointments Parliamentary Private Secretaries Prime Minister's Office Second Church Estates Commissioner Notes == References ==
Additionally, there were two Earls of Nottingham: the elder Nottingham served as Lord Chancellor, and his successor to the earldom served as First Lord of the Admiralty.
The administration was led by three young ministers, collectively known as the chits: Laurence Hyde (Earl of Rochester, 1682), Sidney Godolphin (Lord Godolphin, 1684) and the Robert Spencer, 2nd Earl of Sunderland.
2012 to 2013 In September 2012, Salmond made a snap reshuffle in light of the 2014 Scottish independence referendum.
Due to having to rely on the Protectionists to retain office, half of the ministry was forced to accommodate conservative Protectionists - leading to the government to sometimes be referred to as the Reid-McLean Ministry.
This minority government also managed to stay in power with unofficial deals with the Ulster Unionist Party and Scottish National Party.
His successor in the office is not a Cabinet member Full list of ministers Members of the Cabinet are in bold face.
Following the 5 May 2011 elections to the fourth Northern Ireland Assembly the Democratic Unionist Party and Sinn Féin remained the two largest parties in the Assembly.
Sir Lionel Frederick Heald, (7 August 1897 – 8 November 1981) was a British barrister and Conservative Party politician.
Andrea Leadsom, previously a junior energy minister, and also the final opponent of Theresa May in the 2016 Conservative leadership election, was made environment secretary.
Heath had been elected Leader of the Conservative Party in 1965 – succeeding Alec Douglas-Home – within a few months of the party's election defeat after 13 years in government.
Angus Robertson and Mairi Gourgeon remained in their respective roles as the constitution secretary and rural affairs secretary.
He could not continue as Leader of the House of Lords, having ceased to be a member of it, but was made Minister for Education in April 1964.
The Whig Party held a majority in the House of Commons after the election in 1695, although not all Whig MPs were unswervingly loyal to the Junto.
Simon's Walthamstow constituency was split up at the "Coupon Election" in 1918 and he was defeated at the new Walthamstow East division by a margin of more than 4,000 votes.
The government resigned in early 1855 after a large parliamentary majority voted for a select committee to enquire into the incompetent management of the Crimean War.
Death and succession Fortescue died on his 70th birthday in June 1958, four days after the death of his wife, whose funeral he was too ill to attend.
She was nominated for the post of first minister by a vote of the Scottish Parliament on 18 May, defeating Scottish Conservative leader Douglas Ross and Scottish Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie by 64 votes to 31 and 4 respectively.
It is led by Michelle O'Neill of Sinn Féin as First Minister and Emma Little-Pengelly of the DUP as deputy First Minister.
Peace treaty The ministry vigorously pushed for a peace to end the War of the Spanish Succession, leading to the Treaty of Utrecht.
Prior was dismissed as premier by Lieutenant Governor Henri-Gustave Joly de Lotbinière over a conflict of interest scandal that implicated several ministers, including Prior.
Ministries of the Welsh Government See also List of British governments List of Northern Ireland Executives List of Scottish governments
Gwyneth's daughter Tamsin Dunwoody was also a politician, as a Member of the National Assembly for Wales from 2003 to 2007.
Lord Buckinghamshire (Lord Hobart before November 1804) succeeds Mulgrave at the Duchy of Lancaster.
Ben Wallace resigned as Secretary of State for Defence and was replaced by Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero Grant Shapps.
Two weeks later, on October 4, Brown resigned from cabinet, and Prentice regained the portfolios while also remaining minister of finance and agriculture.
He was a Senator of the College of Justice from 1974 to 1990, and later served as a Justice of Appeal in the Republic of Botswana from 1994 to 1996.
The government was replaced by the Drakeford government on 13 December 2018, following the resignation of Carwyn Jones as First Minister the previous day.
Adding to the charge against Simon was the claim that the administration of Herbert Hoover wanted to have the United States act against Japan and that Simon spurred the American offer.
James Drake, who died in 1941, was the last surviving member of the Reid ministry; Drake was also the last surviving minister of the Barton government and the First Deakin ministry.
The second Drakeford government was the Labour-led government formed after the 2021 Senedd Election on 6 May 2021, with Mark Drakeford re-appointed as First Minister without opposition on 12 May 2021.
Arthur Woodburn (25 October 1890 – 1 June 1978) was a Scottish Labour Party politician who was Secretary of State for Scotland from 1947 to 1950.
The Home Secretary Lord Shelburne was appointed to succeed him, but several members of the government refused to serve under him and resigned.
The last holdover from Blair's government was Lord Grocott, who stayed on as Chief Whip in the Lords and Captain of the Gentlemen at Arms.
The ministry was replaced by the Reid ministry on 17 August 1904 after the Protectionist Party withdrew their support over the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill.
Loss of majority and ministerial resignations Johnson lost his working majority on 3 September 2019, when Phillip Lee crossed the floor to join the Liberal Democrats.
Gwilym Lloyd George, younger son of former Liberal Party leader and Prime Minister David Lloyd George, replaced Sir David Maxwell Fyfe as Home Secretary in 1954.
History Upon the fall of the North ministry in March 1782, Whig Charles Watson-Wentworth, 2nd Marquess of Rockingham became prime minister for a second time.
Cabinet Deputy ministers See also Shadow Cabinet (Wales) Members of the 6th Senedd 2021 Senedd election 2021 Welsh Labour–Plaid Cymru agreement == References ==
Benn said that he would "stay off the buses, even if I have to find a bike", and Labour leader Harold Wilson also told an anti-apartheid rally in London he was "glad that so many Bristolians are supporting the [boycott] campaign", adding that he "wish[ed] them every success".
She was also appointed Minister of State in the Cabinet Office (Minister without Portfolio), but did not initially attend Cabinet.
Estate In 1946 the Duke transferred most of his assets to his only surviving son in an attempt to avoid a repeat of the heavy death duties which the 9th Duke had had to pay in 1908.
Five more of the original Alliance Government MPs have announced they would not be seeking reelection.
Personal life In 1930 Phillips married fellow Labour Party activist Morgan Phillips, a Welsh former miner and later the General Secretary of the Labour Party 1944–1961.
One of the major problems was that it included no figure capable of taking the lead in the House of Commons.
Formation The change of leader from Margaret Thatcher to John Major saw a dramatic turnaround in Conservative support, with the double-digit lead in the opinion polls for the Labour Party being replaced by a narrow Conservative one by the turn of 1991.
Palmerston thereafter successfully devoted his energies to bringing down Russell's government, leading to the formation of a minority Conservative government under Lord Derby in February 1852.
It was formed after the previous Prime Minister, the Earl of Bute, had resigned following fierce criticism of his signing of the Treaty of Paris with its perceived lenient terms for France and Spain despite Britain's successes in the Seven Years War.
The nominal head of the ministry was Spencer Compton, 1st Earl of Wilmington, until his death in 1743.
Sylvia Foot, Emergency Exit (Chatto & Windus, 1960) - memoir by his wife External links Entry in Encyclopædia Britannica
Having signed the Munich Agreement with Hitler in 1938, Chamberlain became alarmed by the dictator's continuing aggression and, in March 1939, signed the Anglo-Polish military alliance which supposedly guaranteed British support for Poland if attacked.
Former prime minister William Pitt the Younger reassumed the premiership of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in 1804, succeeding Henry Addington as First Lord of the Treasury and Chancellor of the Exchequer.
Early life and education Darling's grandfather, Thomas Darling, was agent for James Tomkinson, Liberal MP for Crewe from 1900 to 1910.
It succeeded the Second Leake Ministry on 1 July 1902 following the death of the previous Premier, George Leake, on 24 June 1902.
Charles II's illegitimate son James Scott, 1st Duke of Monmouth was included in the new government because he was popular with the public.
Career After Cambridge Darling chose to enter journalism, before becoming the head of research and information at the Co-operative Wholesale Society from 1930 to 1937.
Benn's absence from the contest was reported by The Glasgow Herald to leave Neil Kinnock as "the favourite Left-wing candidate".
After the death of the previous prime minister, his brother Henry Pelham, Newcastle had formed a new administration of Whigs.
The original idea was that the National Government would be free to draw upon the talents of members of all parties, so that it would represent the nation as a whole rather than being a coalition of parties like those which had existed between 1915 and 1922.
It succeeded the James Ministry on 10 August 1904 after the 1904 election boosted Labor's seat count from 8 to 22 in the 50-seat Legislative Assembly.
Lord Palmerston, of the Whigs, first formed a government by popular demand in 1855, after the resignation of the Aberdeen Coalition.
Following Rhodri Morgan's decision to retire, a leadership contest was held for the position of Welsh Labour Leader.
Leake advised the Governor to dissolve Parliament, but the request was declined and on 12 November, Leake advised the Legislative Assembly that as soon as the Supply Bill had passed a third reading, his government would resign.
Until 1717, he held the position of Northern Secretary and was the de facto leader of the Whig administration.
Norah Mary Phillips, Baroness Phillips, JP (née Lusher; 12 August 1910 – 14 August 1992) was an English educator, Labour Party politician, magistrate and the founder of consumer and women's groups.
It is the first federal government in Australian history to be elected with a majority in the House of Representatives, as well as the first majority national Labor government in the world.
Edward William Spencer Cavendish, 10th Duke of Devonshire (6 May 1895 – 26 November 1950), known as the Marquess of Hartington from 1908 to 1938, was a British politician.
The Broad Bottom ministry was the factional coalition government of Great Britain between 1744 and 1754.
Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt was appointed to replace Johnson, whilst Hunt's former post was filled by Culture Secretary Matthew Hancock.
February 2022 – 5 July 2022 Changes Oliver Dowden resigned as Co-Chairman of the Conservative Party and Minister without Portfolio on 24 June 2022 following the Conservative defeats at the Tiverton and Honiton by-election and Wakefield by-election.
Heald was junior counsel to the Board of Trade from 1931 to 1937, when he was appointed King's Counsel.
Alex Salmond formed the second Salmond government on 19 May 2011 following his Scottish National Party's landslide victory in the 2011 election to the 4th Scottish Parliament.
The tax liability led to the transfer of Hardwick Hall to the National Trust, and the sale of many of the Devonshires' accumulated assets, including tens of thousands of acres of land, and many works of art and rare books.
He was promoted lieutenant colonel in command in 1924 and colonel in 1930 and in 1935 he became Colonel Commandant of the Honourable Artillery Company.
The most influential member of the government was Thomas Pelham-Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle, a former prime minister, who served as Lord Privy Seal.
Devonshire was left to lead a ministry that was manifestly far too weak to survive long—particularly in wartime.
This reform assisted women by linking pensions to the 'twenty best years' of earnings, and those who worked at home caring for children or others were counted as contributors.
Palmerston was heavily criticised by Parliament in 1857 over the conduct of the Second Opium War and called a dissolution, but the nation voiced its support in the resulting general election and he returned with a Whig majority.
Between 1757 and 1762, at the height of the Seven Years' War, the Pitt–Newcastle ministry governed the Kingdom of Great Britain.
Supporting these peers were two unofficial whips in the House of Lords: the earls of Sunderland and Portland.
In Committee however, as one study noted, "it was soon made evident that if all the provisions of the Bill were adhered to, it would never get through," so in the end the bill was limited to the female voting age provision.
Notes References Chris Cook and John Stevenson, British Historical Facts 1760–1830 Joseph Haydn and Horace Ockerby, The Book of Dignities
Macmillan chose Dundee minister without portfolio from 1958 to 1961 owing to a wealth of experiences at home and abroad.
The second Broad Bottom administration lasted from Pelham's resumption of power until his death in 1754.
Rajoy himself was facing increased pressure for independence from Spain in Catalonia, and as such, said that "an independent Scotland could only apply to join the EU from outside the organisation as a new state".
The Rule of Democracy, 1905–1914 (vol 6 of "History of the English People, 1905–1914") (1934); online Hay, James Roy.
The Conservative Government of the United Kingdom that began in 1922 and ended in 1924 consisted of two ministries: the Law ministry (from 1922 to 1923) and then the first Baldwin ministry (from 1923 onwards).
List of ministers See also Executive Council of Alberta List of Alberta provincial ministers References Works cited Further reading Alberta.
It was a very unsure period as no one knew if James would come back, or if the people would accept a new king.
Jayne Bryant, the previous Mental Health and Early Years Minister, was made Cabinet Secretary for Local Government and Housing, replacing Julie James.
His father was an Anglo-Irish businessman and politician who graduated with a law degree from Cambridge University before entering politics as a member of the London County Council and then, in 1910, as a member of the British House of Commons, later serving as Governor General of Canada.
As the name suggests, the ministry was a coalition of the groups supporting Charles James Fox and Lord North.
Ministry Principal ministers of the Crown were as follows: See also 11th Parliament of Great Britain Whigs (British political party) Notes == References ==
She was the first Roman Catholic life peeress and was the first female government whip in the House of Lords, as Baroness-in-Waiting 1965–70.
It was this government which would conduct the Second Boer War from 1899–1902, which helped them to win a landslide victory at the 1900 general election.
Defeat The government lost its majority at the 1911 general election, but managed to stay in office with the support of independent MPs until the following year.
The second McConnell government (20 May 2003 – 16 May 2007) was formed following the 2003 general election to the 2nd Scottish Parliament.
Improvements were made in conditions for nursing staff following the publication of a report by the NBPI in 1968 on the pay of nurses.
In the latter post, he served for nine years during which he oversaw crises such as the Abdication Crisis of Edward VIII.
At first, Leader of the Opposition Frederick Henry Piesse was asked to form a Ministry, but on 18 November he advised that he had been unable to form an acceptable Ministry, and Alf Morgans was sent for.
July 1988 – Department of Health and Social Security broken up into component parts: John Moore continues on as Secretary of State for Social Security.
This is a list of the principal Ministers of the Crown of the Kingdom of England, and then of the Kingdom of Great Britain, from May 1702, at the beginning of the reign of Queen Anne.
Cabinet December 1868 – February 1874 Notes † The Earl de Grey was created the Marquess of Ripon in 1871.
Lord Clarendon was impeached by the House of Commons and forced to flee; the Duke of Albemarle sold his position to George Villiers, 2nd Duke of Buckingham; and Sir George Carteret simply left his position, eventually being forced out of the House two years later.
He was the first Tory prime minister since the Harley ministry during 1710–1714 though his ministry was largely made up of Whigs.
May 1940 – Sir Terence O'Connor dies and no new Solicitor General is appointed before the government falls.
On 20 October 2022, amid growing disapproval of her leadership from within the Conservative Party, Truss announced her resignation, making her tenure the shortest in the history of the United Kingdom.
After several scandals including allegations of the sale of honours, the Conservatives withdrew their support after a meeting at the Carlton Club in 1922, and Bonar Law formed a government.
Both had been political advisers to her at the Home Office, then worked outside government for a brief period before coming back to work on her leadership campaign.
*** Indicates that the individual was either sacked or quit and held no ministerial role in the next government.
Defeated by the Conservative incumbent in Sunderland South in the 1955 and 1959 General Elections, Armstrong was Member of Parliament (MP) for North West Durham from 1964 until his retirement in 1987.
He contributed an article on The Strategic Defence Initiative to the Conservative Monday Club's October 1985 Conservative Party Conference issue of their newspaper, Right Ahead.
In a break from the previous non-partisan governments, it was the first to be composed on party lines, and consisted of members of the Conservative Party.
The Impact of Hitler: British Politics and British Policy, 1933–1940 (Cambridge University Press, 1975).
With inflation firmly under control and union reforms contributing towards the lowest level of strikes since the early 1950s, the Conservatives were now faced with the challenge of reducing unemployment from a record high of 3,200,000.
Following his resignation, the environment portfolio was combined with that of rural development, planning was added to the transport portfolio, and the sport and culture portfolio was given Deputy Minister Allan Wilson without a promotion to minister.
Stimson calling for a joint Anglo-American declaration stating that they would never establish diplomatic relations with the sham state of Manchukuo, which was viewed in Japan as a pro-Japanese gesture that reflected a quiet sympathy for Japan's actions.
In 2014, Lib Dem minister Norman Lamb warned that "it could be enormously damaging for [the Lib Dems]" if the party went into coalition with Miliband's Labour.
It succeeded the Morgans Ministry on 23 December 1901 after a series of ministerial by-elections to confirm that ministry resulted in half of the ministry being defeated by Opposition and Labour candidates.
He was educated at elementary school in Crewe, and started work at 14 in the railway sheds of the town.
However, no clear winner emerged from the April 1901 state election, and rather than test his support in the Assembly, Throssell and the Ministry he led resigned on 27 May 1901, allowing the Leake Ministry led by Opposition Leader George Leake to take office.
May 2003 – Clare Short resigns and is succeeded by Baroness Amos as International Development Secretary.
Yousaf offered Kate Forbes, who he had beaten in the leadership race, a demotion as rural affairs secretary, but she turned down this offer and left government.
In the 2003 Scottish Parliament election, the Labour–Liberal Democrat coalition was renewed and Jack McConnell returned to a second term as first minister and formed a second administration.
The ministry, a Conservative majority government, succeeded the second Cameron ministry which had been formed following the 2015 general election.
It ended on 20 May 2003 following the 2003 election to the 2nd Scottish parliament, which saw McConnell returning to office as first minister to form a second government.
Lord Bessborough died in December 1993, aged 80, when the earldom of Bessborough created in the Peerage of the United Kingdom for his father in 1937 became extinct.
Chalfont was the author of several military history books on subjects including the Napoleonic Wars.
This deadline was later extended to 29 June after Prime Minister, Theresa May's decision to call a snap general election for 8 June 2017.
He was Secretary of the Scottish Council of the Labour Party from 1932 to 1939, and President of the National Council of Labour Colleges from 1937 to 1965.
Gilruth was succeeded by Neil Gray who was appointed Minister for Culture, Europe and International Development and Minister with special responsibility for Refugees from Ukraine.
Prime Minister, the Cabinet Office and non-Departmental ministers Departments of state Law officers Parliament Whips References General Ministers in the Labour Governments: 1997–2010 – Parliamentary Information List, House of Commons Library, 3 July 2012 D.
Military career The then Marquess of Hartington began service with the Territorial Army as a second lieutenant in the Derbyshire Yeomanry in 1913.
He was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for war services in 1942 and Companion of the Order of the Bath in the 1946 Birthday Honours.
Fate The Conservative Party, with the support of the Liberal Unionists, gained a decisive victory in the July 1886 general election, and Lord Salisbury once again became prime minister.
The Michael administration was formed by Alun Michael following the 1999 National Assembly for Wales election and was a Labour minority administration.
He died on 2 January 1986, aged 84, and was succeeded in the barony by his son Robin Evelyn Leo Vanden-Bempde-Johnstone.
The National Government of 1935–1937 was formed by Stanley Baldwin on his reappointment as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by King George V, following the resignation of Ramsay MacDonald in June 1935.
She was made a life peer on 21 December 1964 as Baroness Phillips, of Fulham in the County of London.
Parliamentary career At the 1950 general election, Heald was elected as member of parliament for the Chertsey constituency in Surrey, having been previously defeated in St Pancras South West in the 1945 general election.
Butler (ed.), Twentieth Century British Political Facts 1900–2000 Notes External links "Ministerial Departures since 1997 – Parliamentary Information List" (PDF).
In addition, a new post of Deputy Minister for Transport and Planning in line with the expanded transport portfolio.
Shortly after 1879 her grandfather Hugh Fortescue, 4th Earl Fortescue (1854–1932), Master of the Devon and Somerset Staghounds 1880/81–87, had acquired the reversion of the whole of the former Royal Forest of Exmoor after the death of Frederick Winn Knight.
Cabinets June 1866 – February 1868 Notes This Cabinet of Derby's is the first for which a complete collection of photographs exists of its members.
Leading members See also 11th Parliament of Great Britain 1757 in Great Britain Notes References Works cited == Further reading ==
It succeeded the Rason Ministry on 7 May 1906 after Rason resigned to accept an appointment as Agent-General for Western Australia in London.
Derby's health, however, had been in decline for some time, and he finally resigned in February and advised Queen Victoria to send for Disraeli.
Halifax wanted to sue for peace by asking Benito Mussolini to broker a treaty between the British government and Hitler.
Woodburn was an unsuccessful candidate for Edinburgh South in 1929 and Edinburgh Leith in 1931; he was Member of Parliament (MP) for Clackmannan and East Stirlingshire from 1939 until 1970.
June 1939 – Herwald Ramsbotham succeeds Sir Philip Sassoon (deceased) as First Commissioner of Works and is succeeded as Minister of Pensions by Sir Walter Womersley.
Cabinet Junior ministers See also List of Welsh Assembly Governments 2003 National Assembly for Wales election Members of the 2nd National Assembly for Wales == References ==
Dewar was re-elected in the 1978 Glasgow Garscadden by-election and served as the MP until his death in 2000.
History Eluned Morgan was nominated and appointed to succeed Vaughan Gething as first minister of Wales on 6 August 2024.
However, Goderich's government never even met in a session of Parliament, and was replaced by a High Tory government under the Duke of Wellington on 22 January 1828.
References Leigh Rayment's Peerage Pages Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Albert Murray
Castle Hill is now the home of her daughter Eleanor, Countess of Arran (née van Cutsem) and her husband Arthur Gore, 9th Earl of Arran.
This government did not long survive the hostility of King George III, and many of Shelburne's ministers returned to office under the leadership of William Pitt the Younger in December 1783, though Shelburne himself was consoled with the title Marquess of Lansdowne.
He remained in power until 1756 when his government collapsed following the fall of Minorca and the fierce criticism that he had come under for his handling of the Seven Years' War that was engulfing Europe.
A new coalition government (officially referred to as the Coalition Partnership) was officially announced on 5 October 2000 with policy details emerging the day later.
Butler continued to serve under him for another two years, but devotes only a single paragraph to this period in his memoirs.
Cabinet Changes November 2005 – David Blunkett resigns his post as Secretary of State for Work and Pensions.
Margaret Thatcher was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 4 May 1979 to 28 November 1990, during which time she led a Conservative majority government.
Fate The Duke oversaw the introduction of Catholic Emancipation, but remained resolutely opposed to parliamentary reform, and as a result lost a vote of no confidence on 15 November 1830.
Harold Macmillan, formerly Foreign Secretary and Chancellor of the Exchequer, was chosen over Rab Butler as the new party leader and consequently as prime minister.
Upon Lord Stanhope's death, Robert Walpole, widely considered the first true Prime Minister of Great Britain, returned to head the government.
He was Conservative Member of Parliament for Flintshire from 1945 to 1950 and for West Flintshire from 1950 to 1970.
The government oversaw the establishment of Crown rule in India, but was still not strong enough to retain power, falling in June 1859.
Sam Galbraith and Angus MacKay stood down and Jackie Baillie, Sarah Boyack and Tom McCabe reshuffled out of government, while Susan Deacon was offered the post of social justice minister but refused the offer and moved to the backbenches.
Following the eruption of a scandal involving the improper granting of land, Prior fired the two ministers implicated, David McEwen Eberts and Wilmer Cleveland Wells.
2 The responsibility for Education lay with the Colonial Secretary in the Forrest Ministry except during the period 19 December 1894 – 28 April 1898.
The Ministry of All the Talents had comparatively little success, failing to bring the sought-after peace with France.
It governed Canada from 11 July 1896 to 5 October 1911, including all of the 8th, 9th, 10th, and 11th Canadian Parliaments.
He also had company directorships with The Alliance Insurance Company of Britain and the Bank of Australasia.
6th Executive of Northern Ireland See also List of Northern Ireland Executives 7th Northern Ireland Assembly == References ==
Following negotiations with the Plaid Cymru leader, a second vote on 18 May saw Jones re-elected unopposed as First Minister, enabling him to begin the process of forming a minority government.
When the king fell ill and his brother's return from the Dutch Republic caused alarm in the country, Temple expressed his concerns to the triumvirate but was no longer taken seriously.
April 1863 – George Robinson, 3rd Earl de Grey becomes Secretary for War following Sir George Lewis's death.
Career Salter joined the Civil Service in 1904 and worked in the transport department of the Admiralty, on national insurance, and as private secretary, being promoted to Assistant Secretary grade in 1913.
Thus the First Lord of the Treasury came to be the most powerful minister and the prototype of Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and its dominions.
All of those children are being cheated of a sound start in life." In May 1988, Margaret Thatcher's Conservative government introduced Section 28.
Humza Yousaf succeeded Sturgeon as first minister, forming his first cabinet of the Scottish Government on 29 March 2023.
Simon and Smith began a rivalry that lasted throughout their legal and political careers over the next 30 years.
Family Somervell married Loelia Helen Buchan-Hepburn, daughter of Sir Archibald Buchan-Hepburn, 4th Baronet, in 1933.
5 July 2022 – 6 September 2022 Changes Sajid Javid resigned as Secretary of State for Health and Social Care on 5 July.
"The Struggle for Mastery in Britain: Lloyd George versus Asquith, December 1916." Journal of British Studies 18#1 (1978): 131–156.
The Second Leake Ministry was the fifth Ministry of the Government of Western Australia and was led by Premier George Leake, who had hitherto been the Leader of the Opposition.
The fourth Rhodri Morgan government (19 July 2007 – 10 December 2009) was a Labour–Plaid Cymru coalition government of Wales led by First Minister for Wales, Rhodri Morgan.
His spot in the cabinet was filled by Zac Goldsmith, who was made Minister of State at the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and at the Department for International Development on 10 September 2019.
The government was widely criticised for its handling of foreign affairs, particularly for allowing the Republic of Corsica, a British ally, to fall to the French during the Corsican Crisis.
Political career After leaving Oxford, he joined the Territorial Army on 8 April 1927, as a second lieutenant in the 6th/7th Battalion of the Black Watch.
He was President of the National Union of Railwaymen from 1934 to 1937 before being succeeded by Walter T.
After the Labour Party won the 1964 general election, Foot became Minister of State for Foreign Affairs and Permanent Representatives from the United Kingdom to the United Nations from 1964 to 1970.
The government included several men from the previous administration, but four of the most important, Lords Dudley and Palmerston and Messrs Huskisson and Grant, resigned in May 1828.
Norman Russell Wylie, Lord Wylie, (26 October 1923 – 7 September 2005) was a Scottish Conservative and Scottish Unionist politician, lawyer, and judge.
Edward Henry Vanden-Bempde-Johnstone, younger son of Harcourt Vanden-Bempde-Johnstone, 1st Baron Derwent.
Speaking to the Oxford Union on the alleged overshadowing of the EU debate by "UKIP and Tory backbenchers", he said:I took the view that having fought [Europeans in the Second World War] that we should now work with them, and co-operate, and that was my first thought about it.
Cabinet Changes 20 December 1955 reshuffle Rab Butler succeeded Harry Crookshank as Lord Privy Seal and Leader of the House of Commons.
Derek Colclough Walker-Smith, Baron Broxbourne, (13 April 1910 – 22 January 1992), known as Sir Derek Walker-Smith, Bt, from 1960 to 1983, was a British Conservative Party politician.
The Asquith coalition ministry was the Government of the United Kingdom under the Liberal prime minister H.
Changes August 1876: Beaconsfield succeeds the Earl of Malmesbury as Lord Privy Seal while remaining First Lord of the Treasury.
Simultaneously he was Assistant Deputy Leader of the House of Lords from 1960 to 1962 and Deputy Leader of the House of Lords from 1962 to 1964.
He travelled hastily to the capital and met the King at Richmond Lodge who invited him to form a government.
The Shops Act 1950 consolidated previous legislation which provided that no one could be employed in a shop for more than six hours without having a break for at least 20 minutes.
Brown was an ally of former premier Joseph Martin, and his appointment was opposed by Richard McBride – Martin's political rival – who resigned from cabinet in protest.
The Labour Party chose to go into minority government, and Rhodri Morgan was re-elected first minister on 26 May 2007.
The Ministry of All the Talents was a national unity government in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland formed by William Grenville, 1st Baron Grenville, on his appointment as prime minister on 11 February 1806, following the death of William Pitt the Younger.
Cabinet Junior ministers Retirement of Rhodri Morgan See also Members of the 3rd National Assembly for Wales == References ==
He continued serving after the war with his regiment, which became 24 (Derbyshire Yeomanry) Armoured Car Company of the Royal Tank Regiment in 1923.
The first McConnell government was formed by Jack McConnell on 27 November 2001 during the 1st Scottish Parliament, following Henry McLeish's resignation as First Minister of Scotland as a consequence of the Officegate scandal.
In 1919, Woodburn married Barbara Halliday, a teacher who was elected to the Edinburgh Town Council.
In 1935, he was PPS to the Secretary of State for Scotland before being promoted as Under-Secretary of State for Scotland until the outbreak of the war.
Stanley Baldwin of the Conservative Party formed the second Baldwin ministry upon his reappointment as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by King George V after the 1924 general election.
The Labour Party had won a landslide victory at the 1945 general election, and went on to enact policies of what became known as the post-war consensus, including the establishment of the welfare state and the nationalisation of 20 per cent of the entire economy.
Shapps was replaced as Energy Secretary by Claire Coutinho, who was a junior minister in the Department for Education at the time, Coutinho herself being replaced by backbencher David Johnston.
The government dissolved and was succeeded by the McLeish government in the aftermath of Dewar's death on 11 October 2000.
During the Nootka Sound Controversy in 1790, Pitt took advantage of the alliance to force Spain to give up its claim to exclusive control over the western coast of North and South America.
Angela Constance, who previously served in the cabinets of Alex Salmond and Nicola Sturgeon, returned to cabinet as the justice secretary.
2 Richard Pennefather had served as Attorney-General since 27 October 1897 as part of the Forrest Ministry.
In respective order, the MPs who left government are Gilbert Licudi (GSLP), Paul Balban (GSLP), Albert Isola (GSLP), Samantha Sacramento (GSLP) and Steven Linares (LPG).
Rochester, brother-in-law of King Charles II's brother James, Duke of York, served as First Lord of the Treasury until "kicked upstairs" (term coined by Lord Halifax) as Lord President of the Council in September 1684.
Jones maintained the existing One Wales coalition agreement with Plaid Cymru, established by Morgan.
It is often referred to as the only government ever to have been made up almost entirely of members of the Jockey Club, with Rockingham himself being a prominent patron and follower of the turf.
Following the war he went to India where he served as an instructor at the Cavalry School at Sangor.
The government was also supported by the sole Welsh Liberal Democrat MS Kirsty Williams and the independent MS Dafydd Elis-Thomas.
In 1916, when promoted captain, he rejoined his regiment, in Egypt, and served in the latter stages of the Dardanelles campaign.
On 4 October 1954 Somervell became a Lord of Appeal in Ordinary and, as a Law Lord, he received a life peerage as Baron Somervell of Harrow, of Ewelme in the County of Oxford.
During the First World War (1914–18) he served in France as a regimental officer for the Scots Greys, followed by the Royal Corps of Signals.
A young William Ewart Gladstone held office as a Junior Lord of the Treasury, his first governmental post in a ministerial career that would span for the next sixty years.
Political life Entering politics, he was a minister in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office from 1964 to 1970 and from 1964 was appointed to the Privy Council.
In addition to the £20 million contributed by HM Treasury, the Foreign Office contributed £10 million whilst the Scottish Executive was expected to pay the remaining £65 million.
She was a long-serving London magistrate and co-founder of the National Association of Women's Clubs (1935).
Life Armstrong was educated at Wolsingham Grammar School and City of Leeds Teacher Training College, and ultimately became a headmaster.
On 29 June 2017, the DUP and Sinn Féin had both announced that they had not come to an agreement to form the next Northern Ireland Executive.
The government was led by Bonar Law and Stanley Baldwin, appointed respectively as Prime Minister by King George V.
His grave can be found in the grounds of Saint Mary's Church in Ewelme, opposite that of the writer Jerome K.
Dundee was successfully promoted to number two in the Foreign Office as Minister of State for Foreign Affairs from 1961 to 1964.
Cabinet See also 1722 British general election 1727 British general election 5th Parliament of Great Britain Whigs (British political party) Notes == References ==
Asquith, Venetia Stanley, and Edwin Montagu, Based on the Life and Letters of Edwin Samuel Montagu (NYU Press, 1991).
He was admitted to the Privy Council in 1952 and received the very great honour of being appointed a Knight Companion of the Order of the Garter in 1951.
Sturgeon's cabinet dissolved on 18 May 2016 following the 2016 election to the 5th Scottish parliament, which saw Sturgeon returning to office and forming a second government.
Osborne was also given the honorific title of First Secretary of State, which had been held by William Hague in the preceding ministry.
While the term was in common parlance in the 19th and early 20th centuries, it has become rarer, except in official and academic uses.
Newspaper clippings about Lawrence Dundas, 2nd Marquess of Zetland in the 20th Century Press Archives of the ZBW
They had a son and a daughter, with their daughter Gwyneth Dunwoody, becoming a long-serving Labour Member of Parliament.
Social Services and welfare Increased funds were allocated to social services during the first Wilson government's time in office.
In September 1912, he was appointed (with Lord Islington, Herbert Fisher, Mr Justice Abdur Rahim, and others) as a member of the Royal Commission on the Public Services in India of 1912–1915.
Flight Sergeant Lord Bruce Thomas Dundas (18 October 1920 – 24 February 1942), killed in action with the Royal Air Force Volunteer Reserve.
July 2014 – May 2015 Changes On 5 August 2014, Baroness Warsi resigned as Minister of State at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, and as Minister for Faith and Community, in protest at the Government's response to the conflict in the Gaza Strip.
He argued that traditional social democratic values were under threat in an increasingly globalised world in which powerful institutions such as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the European Commission are unelected and unaccountable to those whose lives they affect daily.
After the official Liberal Party withdrew from the latter government in 1933, another faction, the National Liberals, remained in coalition with the Conservatives.
The government was brought down by Peel's decision in 1846 to support the repeal of the Corn Laws, leading to a split in the Tory party and the formation of a Whig government under Lord John Russell.
Early in 1852 Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington, by then very deaf, gave Derby's first government its nickname by shouting "Who?
This is a list of members of the government of the United Kingdom in office under the leadership of Spencer Perceval from 1809 to 1812.
Initially the ministers were largely identical to those at the end of the first Johnson ministry, excepting the Secretary of State for Wales, in which position Simon Hart replaced Alun Cairns.
It was the successor of the Cabal ministry which fell from power when the Catholicism of some members became a problem for parliament.
He served as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster in the short-lived Churchill caretaker ministry (May–July 1945).
He was succeeded in the Irish earldom of Bessborough and the remaining family titles by his first cousin, Arthur Ponsonby.
He was also Honorary Colonel of the 6th Battalion of the Sherwood Foresters from 1917 to 1937, and of its successor, the 40th (Sherwood Foresters) Anti-Aircraft Battalion of the Royal Engineers.
However, the administration was not a true national unity government as it was made up primarily of Conservatives with support from some National Labour and National Liberal members.
Robert Jenkinson, 2nd Earl of Liverpool was invited by the Prince Regent to form a government on 8 June 1812.
19 February 1942: Attlee is appointed Deputy Prime Minister with general responsibility for domestic affairs.
After much negotiation, Montagu, Somers, and Orford were given places within the new ministry, with Montagu and Somers accepting, and Orford stating that he would rather be "drawn through a horse-pond" than be First Commissioner of the Admiralty.
The king would give full consideration to the opinions of the council, which would be free to discuss and vote on all matters.
The first devolved executive of Scotland, it consisted of Scottish Labour and the Scottish Liberal Democrats, who formed a coalition on 14 May 1999.
In order to maintain a comfortable parliamentary majority, Grafton had drawn the Bedford Whigs (Earl Gower, Viscount Weymouth, and the Earl of Hillsborough) into the ministry at the end of 1767.
He served as Solicitor General and Attorney General from 1933 to 1945 and was briefly Home Secretary in Winston Churchill's 1945 caretaker government.
The Watson ministry (Labour) was the 3rd ministry of the Government of Australia, and the first national Labour government formed in the world.
David Lloyd George: a political life: Organizer of Victory: 1912–1916 (1987) online Gilbert, Bentley Brinkerhoff.
The Junto oversaw the creation of the Bank of England in 1694, but by 1699 the Junto's power had declined in the face of opposition by Robert Harley and the Tories.
History Formation The Duke of Wellington finally came to power after the abortive attempt at a Canningite-Whig coalition government came to an end with Viscount Goderich's resignation in January 1828.
The first Jones government (10 December 2009 – 11 May 2011) was a continuation of the previous Labour–Plaid Cymru coalition government in Wales.
External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Arthur Woodburn National Library of Scotland catalogue of papers National Library of Scotland additional papers
On 7 and 8 May 1940, a two-day debate took place in Parliament, known to history as the Norway Debate.
Donald Dewar formed the Dewar government on 17 May 1999 following his appointment as the inaugural First Minister of Scotland.
Cabinet Changes May 2002 – Stephen Byers resigns and the Department of Transport, Local Government & the Regions is broken up.
While not an official coalition, it would be the first time in both Scottish and UK history that Green politicians would be in government.
Although supporting the Liberal Party by inclination, its decline and his admiration for Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin led him to join the Conservative Party.
Serena Frances Fairfax; Nicholas Fairfax, 14th Lord Fairfax of Cameron, who married Annabella Ruth, eldest daughter of Nicholas and Sarah Gilham Morriss, and succeeded his father; The Hon.
Following the 2 March 2017 elections to the sixth Northern Ireland Assembly, the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) and Sinn Féin remained the two largest parties in the Assembly.
History Following the defeat of the campaign for Scottish independence in a 2014 referendum, then First Minister Alex Salmond, who had arranged the referendum, announced that he would resign as Scottish National Party leader and first minister after a new leader was chosen.
Edward Stanhope succeeds him at the Board of Trade; his successor as Vice-President of the Council is not in the Cabinet.
William Gladstone, who was yet to join the Liberal Party, became a member of the cabinet for the first time in 1843 when he was appointed President of the Board of Trade.
The Baldwin Age (1960), essays by scholars 252 pages; online Archived 10 October 2019 at the Wayback Machine Smart, Nick.
The second Sturgeon government was an SNP minority government and despite the whipping and resignation of some MSPs, this was also returned by Labour and Conservative opposition MSPs.
The Duke of Newcastle stays on as Secretary of State for War, while Sir George Grey becomes Secretary of State for the Colonies.
Background and education Salter was the eldest son of James Edward Salter (1857–1937) of the Thames boating company Salters Steamers, and who became Mayor of Oxford in 1909.
The ministry was replaced by the Second Deakin ministry on 5 July 1905 after the Protectionists withdrew their support and returned to office with the support of the Labour Party.
Lady Margaret devoted much time to attempting to put the Exmoor estate, purchased by her grandfather largely for his sporting interest, onto a profitable footing.
Billy Hughes, who died in 1952, was the last surviving member of the Watson ministry; Hughes was also the last surviving member of the First Fisher ministry, Third Fisher ministry, Second Hughes ministry and Third Hughes ministry.
Woodburn died in Edinburgh on 1 June 1978, aged 87, after a car crash he was involved in when driving to visit his wife in hospital.
Lady Doris was the eldest daughter of Terence Hamilton-Temple-Blackwood, 2nd Marquess of Dufferin and Ava.
John Elvidge stood down as the Permanent Secretary to the Scottish Government in June 2010 and was succeeded by Peter Housden.
Lord Derwent married Marie-Louise Henriette Picard, daughter of Albert Picard of Paris, France, in 1929.
In July 2022, following a government crisis as a result of dozens of resignations from his government, Johnson announced his resignation as leader of the Conservative Party.
In 2001 she gave a lengthy interview for the Exmoor Oral History Archive of the Dulverton and District Civic Society, which provides a valuable insight into many aspects of modern Devon history.
References Chris Cook and John Stevenson, British Historical Facts 1760–1830 Joseph Haydn and Horace Ockerby, The Book of Dignities Notes
The Second Fisher ministry succeeded the Third Deakin ministry, which dissolved on 29 April 1910 following the federal election that took place on 13 April which saw Labor defeat the Alfred Deakin's Liberal Party.
He then joined the Inner Temple, but his legal training was interrupted by the outbreak of the First World War.
Long standing ministers such as Shona Robison and Angela Constance announced their resignation due to personal circumstances, with Keith Brown resigning to take his role as SNP Depute Leader.
This is a list of the principal government ministers during the reign of Elizabeth I of England, 1558 to 1603.
The King disliked Pitt, but Pitt's influence in the Commons had led to his crucial appointment as Southern Secretary in a ministry nominally headed by Devonshire.
On 11 May, Churchill met Morrison and Ernest Bevin, the coalition's minister of labour, telling them that he wished to maintain the coalition until Japan had been defeated.
Godolphin, First Lord of the Treasury 1684–85, was retained at the Treasury by William III, returning as First Lord in the Carmarthen Ministry of 1690.
The other Liberal faction in the Ministry, the Liberal National Party, had accepted the Conservative policy of protectionism before the National government had been formed so its ministers continued in office.
Cabinet May 1999 to October 2000 Changes Lord Hardie unexpectedly resigned from his post as Lord Advocate on 17 February 2000.
Ministers not in Cabinet Henry Seymour Conway – Commander-in-Chief of the Forces Henry Dundas – Treasurer of the Navy Sir George Yonge, 5th Baronet – Secretary at War Isaac Barré – Paymaster of the Forces Charles Manners, 4th Duke of Rutland – Lord Steward of the Household Notes == References ==
Marriage and progeny On 8 February 1917 in London, Fortescue married Margaret Beaumont, a daughter of Wentworth Beaumont, 1st Viscount Allendale by his wife Lady Alexandrina Vane-Tempest, a daughter of George Vane-Tempest, 5th Marquess of Londonderry.
Hilary Armstrong becomes Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster, Minister for the Cabinet Office and Minister for Social Exclusion.
In accordance with Tory wishes in the ministry, Robert Harley was elected Speaker of the House of Commons.
The Walpole ministry was led by Whig Prime Minister Robert Walpole, 1st Earl of Orford, from 1730 to 1742—when Walpole left the government.
In response, Henry McLeish, the Minister for Enterprise and Lifelong Learning in the Dewar government confirmed that "efforts would be made to gather exact statistics to tackle the issue".
History Formation In February 1905, the federal government of Prime Minister Sir Wilfrid Laurier introduced legislation to create two new provinces (Alberta and Saskatchewan) from the Northwest Territories.
January 1919 – Law becomes Lord Privy Seal, remaining Leader of the House of Commons, and is succeeded as Chancellor of the Exchequer by Chamberlain; both remaining in the War Cabinet.
Though both Grafton, who had already been moving away from the Rockinghams due to his strong admiration for Pitt, and Conway remained in the ministry, Saunders and a large number of non-cabinet officeholders from the Rockingham faction resigned their positions.
The Dunsmuir ministry was the combined Cabinet that governed British Columbia from June 15, 1900, to November 21, 1902.
Cabinet January 1828 – November 1830 Full list of ministers Members of the Cabinet are indicated by bold face.
On the outbreak of war, he was recalled to the Admiralty, and became director of ship requisitioning.
John Prescott's Office of the Deputy Prime Minister assumes the Local Government & the Regions portfolio.
It was formed following the 1900 general election, in which the incumbent premier, Joseph Martin, failed to gain a majority; he subsequently recommended Dunsmuir as the next government leader.
Marriage and children In 1917, he married Lady Mary Gascoyne-Cecil, granddaughter of Prime Minister Robert Gascoyne-Cecil, 3rd Marquess of Salisbury.
The inclusion of Charles James Fox surprised some as King George III had previously been very hostile to Fox, but the King's willingness to put aside past enmities for the sake of national unity encouraged many others to join or support the government as well.
The Reid ministry succeeded the Watson ministry, which dissolved on 17 August 1904 after the Protectionist Party withdrew their support and Chris Watson was forced to resign.
A seven-year limit in connection with war pensions was also removed, while a programme for afforestation was increased.
Donald Bradley Somervell, Baron Somervell of Harrow, (24 August 1889 – 18 November 1960) was a British barrister, judge and Conservative Party politician.
Changes February 1853: Lord John Russell becomes Minister without Portfolio, remaining Leader of the Commons.
The Truss ministry began on 6 September 2022 when Liz Truss was invited by Queen Elizabeth II—two days before the monarch's death—to succeed Boris Johnson as prime minister of the United Kingdom.
In 1920 he was appointed the first Secretary General to the Reparation Commission established by the Treaty of Versailles, a position he held from 1920 to 1922.
One of the major problems facing the government was the Great Irish Famine (1845–1849), which Russell failed to deal with effectively.
Ultimately, the ministry collapsed under the weight of attack from Whigs against Halifax, who voluntarily withdrew.
Butler called him "Micawber Salter" because of his opposition to Butler's proposal to let the pound float ("Operation ROBOT").
The nominal leader of the Party, Spencer Cavendish, Marquess of Hartington, resigned in Gladstone's favour and Gladstone was appointed Prime Minister of the United Kingdom for a second time by Queen Victoria.
He was educated at Harrow before reading chemistry with a demyship at Magdalen College, Oxford, graduating with a First in 1911.
Membership Shown here is a table showing the main membership of the Danby Ministry for its duration.
Disraeli's foreign policy was seen as immoral by Gladstone, and following the latter's Midlothian campaign, the government was heavily defeated in the 1880 general election, whereupon Gladstone formed his second government.
Between May 2016 and December 2018 the senior tier of ministers were referred to as Cabinet Secretaries and the junior tier as Ministers, from the formation of this government they reverted to their previous titles of Cabinet Ministers and Deputy Ministers respectively.
See also 11th Parliament of Great Britain 1754 British general election Great Britain in the Seven Years' War Notes Works cited == Further reading ==
David Lloyd George had been expected to join the government after recovering from surgery following an operation on his prostate as he was still the official leader of the Liberal party.
It succeeded the Throssell Ministry on 27 May 1901 after George Throssell's resignation as premier following the inconclusive result of the April 1901 state election.
The government of Great Britain was under the joint leadership of Prime Minister Robert Walpole (in the House of Commons) and Charles Townshend, 2nd Viscount Townshend (in the House of Lords), from 1721 until Townshend departed from the government in 1730.
The Conservative government of the United Kingdom that began in 1957 and ended in 1964 consisted of three ministries: the first Macmillan ministry, second Macmillan ministry, and then the Douglas-Home ministry.
He was elected President of the Royal Geographical Society in 1922 and President of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland for 1928–31.
King O'Malley, who died in 1953, was the last surviving member of the Second Fisher ministry; O'Malley was also the last surviving member of the First Hughes ministry.
Cabinet February 1855 – February 1858 Changes Later in February 1855 – Sir George Cornewall Lewis succeeds Gladstone as Chancellor of the Exchequer.
In a list compiled by the magazine New Statesman in 2006, he was voted twelfth in the list of "Heroes of our Time".
Patrick Robin Gilbert Vanden-Bempde-Johnstone, 4th Baron Derwent (26 October 1901 – 2 January 1986), was a British peer and Conservative politician.
Sturgeon, who had been Deputy First Minister under Salmond, was elected to succeed him by the SNP majority in the Scottish Parliament on 19 November 2014, before being officially sworn in in front of senior judges at the Court of Session the next day.
He then joined the Reynolds News until 1942 before becoming industrial correspondent for the BBC reporting team from 1942 to 1949.
It was formed as a multi-party war-time coalition nine months after the beginning of the First World War but collapsed when the Conservative Party withdrew.
Her mother was a socialist and suffragette from Cumberland and her father William Lusher hailed from Norfolk and served in the Indian Army.
They married on 29 September 1948, and were the parents of one daughter, Lady Charlotte Mary Roberte Paul Ponsonby (b.
Cabinets Wilson ministry Callaghan ministry Full list of ministers Members of the Cabinet are in bold face.
However, there were sharp ideological divisions among the five, ranging from the Parliamentary idealism of Ashley to the autocratic absolutism of Lauderdale.
Labour Identities and Crisis, 1922–1931, Oxford: OUP 2002; ISBN 0-19-820304-7 Marquand, David Ramsay MacDonald, (London: Jonathan Cape 1977); ISBN 0-224-01295-9; the standard scholarly biography; favourable Marquand, David.
History Following the split in the Tory Party over the Corn Laws in 1846 and the consequent end of Sir Robert Peel's second government, the Whigs came to power under Lord John Russell.
The ministry was formed on 9 August 1710, when Harley was appointed as Chancellor of the Exchequer, and was dissolved upon Harley's dismissal as Lord High Treasurer.
Malcolm MacDonald succeeds Stanley (deceased) as Dominions Secretary, remaining also Colonial Secretary.
It was said that there were some attempts to distinguish between the two offices, but in the century or more since, they have remained one and the same.
However, following her death, Bedford married Jacquetta of Luxembourg, which the Duke of Burgundy disapproved of and Burgundy made peace with France.
The ministry was replaced by the Second Fisher ministry on 29 April 1910 following the federal election that took place on 13 April which saw the Labour Party defeat the Liberals.
The caretaker government continued to fight the war against Japan in the Far East, but Churchill's focus was on preparation for the Potsdam Conference where he and his foreign secretary Anthony Eden would meet Joseph Stalin and Harry Truman.
He was educated at Charterhouse, then served in France and Italy during World War I in the Royal Engineers, and was awarded the Italian Bronze Medal of Military Valor.
Chief minister is a term used retroactively by historians to describe servants of the English monarch who presided over the government of England, and after 1707, Great Britain, before 1721.
The protests erupted due to the lack of Indian representation on the commission, with the group composed of seven all-British Members of Parliament.
Family He was one of the four sons of the Liberal Member of Parliament Isaac Foot, his three brothers being the politician Sir Dingle Foot, the life peer Lord Foot, and the journalist and Labour Party leader Michael Foot.
Cabinet Changes January 1887 a Liberal Unionist, George Goschen, joined the ministry, succeeding Churchill as Chancellor of the Exchequer.[C.
He was elected Member of Parliament in 1945 for the Blackley division of Manchester, but lost it in 1951.
From 1969 to 1970, he was a junior minister in Harold Wilson's government, as Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry of Transport, under Minister of Transport Richard Marsh.
Theresa May formed the first May ministry in the United Kingdom on 13 July 2016, after having been invited by Queen Elizabeth II to form a new government.
In 1919, he served on the British peace delegation that attended the signing of the Treaty of Versailles and was appointed MBE.
In the face of the Exclusion Bill, the king prorogued and then dissolved Parliament without the council's approval.
In November 1968 Chalfont travelled to the Falklands to canvass the people, and try to persuade them of the merit of becoming Argentine citizens.
October 1911 – Winston Churchill and Reginald McKenna switch offices, Churchill taking the Admiralty and McKenna the Home Office.
The Ulster Conservatives and Unionists electoral pact ended after the party failed to win any Northern Ireland seats in the 2010 general election.
List of ministers Prime Minister and Cabinet Office Departments of state Law officers Parliament Non-ministerial appointments Parliamentary Private Secretaries In July 2025, analysis by LabourList and PLMR suggested that there were 38 Parliamentary Private Secretaries (PPSs).
The Clarendon ministry was forged out of the royalist camp of Charles II, who was returned to the throne (the English Restoration) in 1660.
This is a list of members of the government of the United Kingdom in office under the leadership of Lord Liverpool from 1812 to 1827.
Formation On 9 April 1827 the Tory Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Robert Banks Jenkinson, 2nd Earl of Liverpool, suffered a cerebral haemorrhage.
Alan Mak was promoted to being a parliamentary Under-Secretary of State jointly in the Department for Business and Trade and the Cabinet Office.
He was appointed Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by the Prince Regent after the assassination of Spencer Perceval.
While their support was often expressed in general terms, their intent was clear: Social and economic reform must be the first order of the new government.
After a reign of only four months, the government felt obliged to resign, whereupon the Whig leader William Lamb, 2nd Viscount Melbourne formed his second government.
He jokingly claimed to be glad to be divested of the surname "Foot", which he considered a standing invitation to wags, as he liked to illustrate by recalling a telegram his father received on his election to parliament: "Foot, congratulations on your feat!" Foot was an active freemason.
Though the government had little impact, it attracted derision through its plethora of new political names, which demonstrated the relative inexperience of the party.
He served in Harold Wilson's Labour government, first as Postmaster General, where he oversaw the opening of the Post Office Tower, and later as Minister of Technology.
Born in Elderslie, he was educated at Paisley Grammar School, St Edmund Hall, Oxford, and the universities of Glasgow and Edinburgh.
The first Rockingham ministry was a British ministry headed by Charles Watson-Wentworth, 2nd Marquess of Rockingham from 1765 to 1766 during the reign of King George III.
This is a list of the principal holders of government office during the premiership of the Earl of Shelburne between July 1782 and April 1783.
The First Leake Ministry was the third Ministry of the Government of Western Australia and was led by Premier George Leake, who had hitherto been the Leader of the Opposition.
The adhesion of the Bedfords ultimately gave them a dominant role in the ministry, which they used to pursue a more hardline policy towards the American colonies than Chatham had originally intended, or than several of the remaining were comfortable with.
He was chosen as a member of the parliamentary delegation to China just as Japanese soldiers stormed Singapore.
During the five years of this government there were two significant reshuffles (March 2013 and September 2014) as well as two departures from the Cabinet, both of which led to widespread changes in personnel and in ministerial titles and responsibilities.
January 2018 – July 2019 Changes Following a scandal about immigrant removal targets, Amber Rudd resigned from her post of Home Secretary on 29 April 2018.
History Upon Queen Anne's accession to the English throne in 1702, she appointed Lord Godolphin as Lord High Treasurer and the Duke of Marlborough as Master-General of the Ordnance (among other numerous appointments).
Emma Little-Pengelly, who was elected DUP MP for Belfast South in the 2017 election, is the daughter of Noel Little, one of the "Paris Three" arms traffickers arrested in 1989.
The First Fisher ministry succeeded the Second Deakin ministry, which dissolved on 13 November 1908 after Labour withdrew their support and Alfred Deakin was forced to resign.
It marked the first time the protectionist wing of the Conservative Party had taken office since the Corn Laws schism of 1846.
Formation Rebecca Evans retained the Finance portfolio and was appointed Cabinet Secretary for Finance, Constitution and Cabinet Office, assuming the responsibilities for Constitution from Mick Antoniw who was reappointed the Counsel General.
On 7 May 1906, the Governor, Admiral Sir Frederick Bedford, designated 6 principal executive offices of the Government under section 43(2) of the Constitution Acts Amendment Act 1899.
The two Whigs remained in power from 1717 to 1721, although in 1718, Lord Stanhope exchanged positions with Lord Sunderland to form the second Stanhope–Sunderland ministry.
The Junto established its dominance in 1694 with the appointment of Sir Charles Montagu as Chancellor of the Exchequer on 10 May.
The following ministers were then appointed to the positions, and served until the end of the Ministry.
The interim Rhodri Morgan administration was a temporary government of Wales formed on 9 February 2000 by Rhodri Morgan, following the resignation of Alun Michael as First Secretary, which was pre-empted by a vote of no-confidence by Plaid Cymru.
Gwilym Lloyd George, younger son of former Liberal leader David Lloyd George, remained as home secretary.
Home Office pathologist Francis Camps linked Adams to 163 suspicious deaths in total, which would make him a precursor to Harold Shipman.
He remains First Commissioner of Woods and Forests July 1850: Lord Truro succeeds Lord Cottenham as Lord Chancellor.
Oliver Isaac Foot (19 September 1946 – 6 February 2008), a charity worker who led Project Orbis International Hon.
He said that whilst he felt Gordon Brown was quite serious about pursuing talks, he believed former minister Ed Balls was deliberately "sabotaging" them.
Addington's ministry is most notable for negotiating the Treaty of Amiens, which marked a brief cessation of the Napoleonic Wars.
Robert Gascoyne-Cecil, 3rd Marquess of Salisbury formed a government in June 1885, upon his appointment as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by Queen Victoria, succeeding William Ewart Gladstone.
October 1891 – Arthur Balfour succeeds the late William Henry Smith as First Lord of the Treasury and Leader of the House of Commons.
History The ministry ended a period of political instability in which Great Britain had struggled in the war.
William Westwood, 1st Baron Westwood OBE (28 August 1880 – 13 September 1953), was a British trade unionist and Labour politician.
He minimum floor-space per child prescribed by the Board was increased from 10 to 12 square feet in respect of children over the age of 11, and from 9 to 10 square metres where younger children were concerned.
Charles Townshend, 2nd Viscount Townshend, was appointed Secretary of State for the Northern Department by George I of Great Britain in September 1714.
June 1925 – The post of Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs was created, held by Leo Amery in tandem with Secretary of State for the Colonies.
Although the Land Commission purchased substantial quantities of land, it did not become the dominant influence in the land market that the government had hoped for.
At the 1964 general election, he was elected as Member of Parliament (MP) for Gravesend in Kent, a marginal seat which was normally won by the party forming the government.
In 1762 Newcastle was forced to resign, with his followers (the "Pelhamites") dismissed by Bute in what became known as the "Massacre of the Pelhamite Innocents"; this is traditionally considered to have been the moment the ministry collapsed.
During the Gulf War, Benn visited Baghdad in order to try to persuade Saddam Hussein to release the hostages who had been captured.
Prior to the 20th century, the leader of the British government held the title of First Lord of the Treasury, and not that of Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.
He was educated at West Monmouth School, and subsequently at the School of Slavonic Studies at the University of London.
James Stansfeld succeeds Goschen at the Poor Law Board (which becomes the Local Government Board later that year).
The third Rhodri Morgan government (26 May 2007 – 19 July 2007) was a caretaker Labour minority government in Wales.
She appointed Jeremy Miles as Cabinet Secretary for Health and Social Care, and Mark Drakeford as Cabinet Secretary for Finance, while Ken Skates lost his role as Cabinet Secretary for the Economy, while retaining his roles as Cabinet Secretary for Transport and Minister for North Wales.
It was succeeded by the First Wilson Ministry on 16 September 1910 after Moore resigned for exactly the same reason.
Their view, confirmed by Labour's National Executive Committee (NEC), was that the general election should be held in October regardless of the situation in the Far East as it was then widely thought the war against Japan might continue for another 18 months.
William Benn was elevated to the House of Lords and given the title of Viscount Stansgate in 1942, as the new wartime coalition government was short of working Labour peers in the upper house.
He served in World War II in the King's Royal Rifle Corps and on General Staff, being promoted to the rank of lieutenant-colonel in 1944.
Notes References British Historical Facts 1830–1900, by Chris Cook and Brendon Keith (The Macmillan Press 1975) pp.
Former Foreign Secretary Lord Granville became Secretary of State for the Colonies, while another political veteran, Lord Kimberley, resumed the post of Secretary of State for India which he had held from 1882 to 1885.
January 2001 – Peter Mandelson is dismissed as Northern Ireland Secretary and is succeeded by John Reid.
Dewar was made a member of the public accounts committee and in October 1967, he was appointed a Parliamentary Private Secretary to the President of the Board of Trade, Anthony Crosland.
Ministers not in Cabinet Lord Chamberlain – William Cavendish-Bentinck, 3rd Duke of Portland == References ==
Historians Alan Sked and Chris Cook have summarized the views of some historians regarding Labour in power in 1974–1979: If Wilson's record as Prime Minister was soon felt to have been one of failure, that sense of failure was powerfully reinforced by Callaghan's term as premier.
On 17 June, Sturgeon nominated Dorothy Bain to serve as Lord Advocate and Ruth Charteris to serve as Solicitor General.
In 1912 he was elected a prize fellow of All Souls College, Oxford, the first chemist to be elected.
Dissolution On 7 March 1702, Parliament recieved word that the King was dying, and by the next day, he had been succeeded by Queen Anne.
In the politics of the United Kingdom, a National Government is a coalition of some or all of the major political parties.
Early life Ponsonby was the eldest and only surviving son of Vere Ponsonby, 9th Earl of Bessborough, and his wife, the former Roberte Poupart de Neuflize, only daughter of Baron Jean de Neuflize, a Parisian banker.
Herbert Morrison later reflected on this meeting as such: The Cabinet had been called & waited for the Prime Minister to return to No.
Dewar received nicknames such as "Donald Dour" for his stiff, matter-of-fact tone and "The Gannet" due to his large appetite.
In 1964 Foot was granted a life peerage as Baron Caradon, of St Cleer in the County of Cornwall, the title referring to Caradon Hill on Bodmin Moor, not far from Trematon Castle, which was his country home.
References The Times Guide to the House of Commons, Times Newspapers Ltd, 1987 Whitaker's Almanack 1997 External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Ernest Armstrong
He held ministerial positions, including Economic Secretary to the Treasury (1956–1957), at the Board of Trade (1955–1956 and 1957), and Health (1957–1959).
late January 1986 – Paul Channon succeeded Leon Brittan as Secretary of State for Trade and Industry.
The ministry was replaced by the Cook ministry on 24 June 1913 following the federal election that took place in May which saw the Liberals defeat Labor.
The government, led by the Charles Grey, 2nd Earl Grey, passed the Great Reform Act in 1832, which brought about parliamentary reform, and enacted the Slavery Abolition Act 1833, bringing about the abolition of slavery in most of the British Empire.
An important part of the rebuilding effort was to get the gold mines of the Witwatersrand, the richest in history and a major cause of the war, back in production as soon as possible.
If a situation arises in which it is appropriate to use private facilities, the Minister for Health and Community Care would want to do so".
Thomas Brian McKelvie Fairfax, 13th Lord Fairfax of Cameron (14 May 1923 – 8 April 1964) was a British Army officer and Conservative politician.
The Rockingham Whigs had generally been sympathetic to the cause of the Colonists and under Rockingham the British government began the negotiations leading to the Peace of Paris that concluded the war.
SNP leader, Alex Salmond was elected First Minister on 16 May 2007; he was officially sworn in and his slate of ministerial appointments were ratified by the Scottish Parliament the following day.
The Whig government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland that began in November 1830 and ended in November 1834 consisted of two ministries: the Grey ministry (from 1830 to July 1834) and then the first Melbourne ministry.
The next two times were for periods of 24 hours on 10 August 2001 to help deal with arms negotiations and 21 September 2001 following the Holy Cross dispute.
Pitt was a strong war leader but lacked the support in Parliament necessary to provide effective leadership.
Cabinet Changes On 19 March 2016, Iain Duncan Smith resigned from his post of Secretary of State for Work and Pensions over plans by Chancellor George Osborne to cut disability benefits.
After his retirement, Armstrong acted as political adviser to the BBC's production of the political drama House of Cards.
However, disunity within the party caused the fall of the government in the following year, and Edward Smith-Stanley, 14th Earl of Derby formed another Conservative ministry.
The ministry was replaced by the Third Deakin ministry on 2 June 1909 after the Protectionist Party and the Anti-Socialist Party merged into the Liberal Party "fusion" and withdrew their support in order to form what became the first majority government in federal Australian history.
Soon afterward, in his resignation speech in the House of Commons, he publicly denounced Thatcher, having once been one of her closest allies, personally and for her hostility towards the programmes of the European Economic Community.
The government also came under strain when, from the opposition, Pitt introduced a proposal for electoral reform to tackle bribery and rotten boroughs.
On 3 July of the same year, he was created a life peer as Baron Darling of Hillsborough, of Crewe in Cheshire.
See also Johnson cabinets, of Boris Johnson as Mayor of London Second Johnson ministry Notes == References ==
Notes Lord John Russell served as Leader of the House of Commons from December 1852 to February 1855.
Phillips participated in an oral history interview in 1992, which is held in the National Life Story's: Fawcett Collection at the Women's Library, London School of Economics (LSE).
Fate Canning, who was in poor health at the time of his appointment, died in office on 8 August 1827, and the Leader of the House of Lords Frederick Robinson, 1st Viscount Goderich succeeded him as prime minister.
Ahead of the 2017 general election, it was suggested that a new coalition between the parties could be proposed, although this was later ruled out by Liberal Democrat leader, Tim Farron.
The Second Executive (8 May 2007 – 16 May 2011) is as under the terms of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 a power sharing coalition.
They combined their forces in the House of Commons to throw out Shelburne's ministry and then form a government of their own.
James Drake, who died in 1941, was the last surviving member of the Barton ministry; Drake was also the last surviving minister of the First Deakin ministry and the Reid government.
Author Nancy Kilpatrick, after reading Death Moon in preparation for writing the following Jason X novel, called it "pretty damned weird." Nat Brehmer of Bloody Disgusting opined that author Alex S.
They then moved to their own women-only island, where, in the absence of male oppression, they grew progressively stronger and lived a longer life.
Stargate SG-1 was also nominated for two VES Awards in 2003 and 2005 and for two Hugo Awards in 2005 and 2007.
The Nestene Consciousness did not appear on-screen again until 2005's "Rose", the first episode of the series' revival.
He ended up becoming an outlaw, mentored as a graffiti artist by the insane "tagger" Kroll; he left messages and occasionally took out police officers to eventually provoke an uprising.
See also List of Sonic the Hedgehog characters Notes References External links Doctor Eggman at Sonic-City (archived) Doctor Eggman at Sonic Channel (in Japanese)
Heroes of the City (Swedish: Stadens Hjältar) is a Swedish computer-animated television series for preschool children, with stories about friendship, sharing and caring.
Plot The New American Republic commandeers a space freighter to track down Jason Voorhees, an undead cyborg last sighted on a research station orbiting Planet #666.
Master Hidar Fen Ajidica heads Project Amal, an early attempt by the Bene Tleilax to create synthetic melange in order to eliminate dependence upon the planet Arrakis, intending an eventual Tleilaxu takeover of the universe, Ajidica sends "improved" Face Dancers off to unexplored systems.
These classes can be further customized with a number of descriptors (such as "Tough" or "Mystical") and foci, which allow the character to excel in a certain role or combat style.
A crowd funding platform, on the other hand, would allow the developers to present their vision directly to potential buyers and determine its viability early on, making it a better choice for a mid-sized or smaller developer studio, like inXile.
There have been some claims that Frontier Enterprises produced an English dub Mazinger Z at some point in the 1970s, stating it was one of the serial works that his company Frontier Enterprises had been in charge of translating but failed to sell to a network and thus never aired or was released.
Robotnik also served as the main antagonist of the 1999 series Sonic Underground, in which he was voiced by Garry Chalk.
13–14, ISBN 9780842028592{{citation}}: CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link) Pettigrew, Neil (1999), The Stop-motion Filmography –A Critical Guide to 297 Features Using Puppet Animation, McFarland, pp.
The one recruited by Iron Man presented the idea that, to try something new and break his pattern, Ultron should try to help the heroes and humanity.
Concept The stasis field concept is a variation on the related science-fictional concept of the force field.
From salvaged internal metal identification plates, two varieties are identified: I-V, a wounded soldier, and III-V, David.
Background No well-controlled scientific studies have ever been published suggesting the possibility of pheromones causing rapid behavioral changes in humans.
In July 2019, Franky Zapata flew the newer Flyboard Air "jet-powered personal aerial vehicle", referred to as the EZ-Fly, during Bastille Day celebrations in France.
The two books show at least one solution to the Fermi paradox, with electromagnetically noisy civilizations being snuffed out by the arrival of self-replicating machines designed to destroy any potential threat to their (possibly long-dead) creators.
Captain Miklo Braca (David Franklin) – Captain Miklo Braca usually serves as a subordinate to most of the series' villains, acting as second-in-command for Crais, Scorpius, and Grayza at various times.
Marsden, Ilya Prigogine (Nobel Prize in Chemistry, 1977), Robert Wald, John Archibald Wheeler, Maurice Allais (Nobel Prize in Economics, 1988), and Frank Wilczek (Nobel Prize in Physics, 2004).
In the sequel, Ghost in the Shell 2: Man/Machine Interface, a person known as Motoko Aramaki appears.
He is sent to infiltrate the Canelli crime family by using the cover identity "Angelo Mortalli." While living as Mortalli, Garrison begins a romantic relationship with Gina DeCarlo.
Boilerplate is featured on the cover of Canadian indie pop band Stars's 2008 EP Sad Robots, as well as on merchandise for their 2008–9 tour.
The plot has been called “fast-paced and eventful” and “the kind of book that felt much shorter than the 500-odd pages in spans” but also frustrating as “the love story holds very few surprises" being based on the Hans Christian Andersen story.
Now, Tiphares is mainly a source of living human brains that are integrated into Ketheres' quantum computing network known as Melchizedek.
Cait Sith to her had a "memorable, distinctive and comical look, something that was needed to offset the darker, rather po-faced appearance of the rest of the cast", and his humorous appearance helped offset how the rest of the party was shown as "brooding and containing their androgynous rage".
Only in the late 20th century did advances in biology reveal that vampires were once humans who had been infected with the V-virus.
Two multi-purpose rooms were frequently redecorated into the infirmary, Daniel's lab, the cafeteria or the gym.
He is the first person whose body was cryopreserved after legal death, and remains preserved at the Alcor Life Extension Foundation.
radio waves), so signals sent from a great distance can be expected to reach their destination at a predictable time and with little relative degradation (barring any random subspace interference or spatial anomalies).
Hadden faked his death, secretly launching himself into space using cryogenics, but this remains unknown to the characters.
At the first checkpoint, Hamilton orders Annie, who is revealed to be her spy, to kill Frankenstein.
He searches her lodgings, finding busts carved of him and of Number Two, and smashes a lifelike effigy representing the sleeping Professor.
The spin-off manga Crazy Diamond's Demonic Heartbreak reveals that Kakyoin was born in Morioh and ended up under Dio's control during his family's vacation to Egypt when the villain uses his younger cousin as a hostage.
As other Geldarians arrive on Earth to investigate the death of their comrade and find the missing Tech Jacket, they initially suspect Zack of foul play, believing he stole the Tech Jacket.
Contrary to Next Generation, GamePro concluded that while Jet Moto 2 is flawed, it has enough novel features over its predecessor to be worth buying.
As "Lieutenant Cole", Nanette finds herself aboard the USS Callister, where "Lieutenant" Lowry explains that they are digital clones of Callister Inc.
TMA-2 thus converted Jupiter into a new star (dubbed "Lucifer", meaning "light-bringer") to warm Europa into more habitable conditions – at the cost of exterminating the Jovians, ocean-like creatures who swam through the upper atmosphere of Jupiter.
The plots revolve around the emergency vehicles Paulie Police Car and Fiona Fire Engine who tackle a new mission in each episode.
In the Alien Force pilot episode "Ben 10 Returns", Labrid is killed in battle with the Forever Knights.
This also means that everything in the moment from then on changes, providing a completely different and alternate future.
See also References External links IXS Enterprise (IXS-110), images by Mark Rademaker (on Flickr) Warp Field Physics (PDF) Video (58:59) - Faster-Than-Light - SpaceVision 2013 on YouTube Video (03:57) - NASA unveils IXS Enterprise on YouTube
The magazine had a in-depth material, including interviews with the cast and crew, behind the scenes information on many episodes, original fiction (by O'Bannon, DeCandido, Greg Cox, John Kenneth Muir, and others), and a regular column by David Kemper.
The final version of Rover was inspired by a weather balloon seen above Portmeirion by production manager Bernard Williams.
However, Apollo remembers that he'd thought the same thing about Helios whom he had recently encountered in the Labyrinth after Medea had resurrected the Titan.
Zack Thompson appears in the “Viltrumite War” storyline, collaborating with characters like Invincible, Omni Man, and Allen the Alien.
While Ivo is furious at this development, Morrow reveals he deliberately made Tomorrow Woman's brain advanced enough to develop her own personality and ethics, and so her act of free will is a demonstration of his genius.
Lee noted in an interview with PlayStation Museum that rain particles "actually streak in 3D according to your camera speed", noting that other games used a 2D effect on the game's HUD to produce the effect of rain.
This connection to Rai does not exist in the Acclaim Entertainment reboot canon or in the 2012 relaunched Valiant Universe.
The Switch version performs better than the Wii U release when docked to a television, although when undocked, both run at the same resolution.
Initially, Kotori was disliked by the manga readers as Clamp pointed out she did not any major appeal other that being cute.
In particular, it is an imaginary experiment to demonstrate that evolution may not necessarily lead to dominance by intellectually superior life forms.
Overdrive is later sent to steal the Sonic Pulse Generator from a laboratory, but is thwarted by Spider-Man.
Although the connections to its predecessor will not be relatively overt, due to licensing issues, it was noted that certain traditional RPG elements are relatively hard to copyright, and some elements of Planescape: Torment may make a reappearance.
Charles Stross also makes epub, mobi, aportis and rtf versions of Accelerando available for download from his blog.
Der Audio Verlag audio book on 3 times 2 CDs (total playing time 460 minutes), read by Stefan Kaminski in 2006.
In his book A Vision of the Future, author Stephan Edward Poe wrote the holonovel was intended to provide: "new ways for crew members to learn ...
Lacking contemporary astronauts, it gives the command to Wilson Kime, one of the members of the original Mars mission.
This wasn't helped by the fact that Nagai was in the middle of a court battle with Toei, suing them for not properly crediting him and not paying him royalties over the creation of Gaiking in 1976.
Donquixote Doflamingo Donquixote Doflamingo (ドンキホーテ・ドフラミンゴ, Donkihōte Dofuramingo) is the captain of the Donquixote Pirates, the usurper king of the island Dressrosa, and formerly one of the Seven Warlords of the Sea.[ch.
Princess Oona Princess Oona is a character created by Stefan Printz-Påhlson and his wife Unn Printz-Påhlson in the story "Princess Oona" (Anders And & Co.
Motoko is also more prone to mischief when punishing others for what she feels to be slights, using her hacking skills to make Batou punch himself, for example, or appearing nude during their meeting in cyberspace.
According to series co-creator Matt Groening, the suicide booth concept was inspired by a 1937 Donald Duck cartoon, Modern Inventions, in which Donald Duck visits a Museum of the Future and is nearly killed by various push button gadgets.
In practice, the term functions primarily as a specific named variant within the broader and historically diverse category of ji polearms.
Location filming took place in July 1961 around London, including at IBM's offices on Wigmore Street, and in the vicinity of Tenby in Pembrokeshire, Wales where the Manorbier Army Base stood in for the Thorness research centre.
The following day, the robots have now evolved into incorporeal energy beings of transcendent higher consciousness that are no longer concerned with corporeal beings including Farnsworth, and send the crew home.
Other media Video games The Carmageddon video game series borrows heavily from the plot, characters and car designs from the film Death Race 2000.
Characters are split into teams, and bikes are adorned with logos of products such as Mountain Dew and Doritos, similar to real-life sponsored racing.
More potent versions of this spell include resurrection, which needs only a fragment of the body, and true resurrection, which doesn't need the body at all and can be performed many years after the character's death.
Smythe's continued efforts to perfect his machines lead to him contracting fatal radiation poisoning from the building materials of his creations.
Although the technology is still in development, it has enabled some legally blind individuals to distinguish letters again.
Acclaim Comics continuity The Acclaim Entertainment reboot version of Bloodshot, named Raymond Garrison, possesses the same powers but has the appearance of chalk-white skin and red eyes at all times.
The stories were drawn by a number of artists and Dave Gibbons has fond memories of his work on Ro-Busters: I used to love doing Ro-Busters.
This later led the writers to develop a full story arc for GLaDOS where she would come to recall her past, learn from it to solve the dilemma, and then subsequently delete it and reset herself.
When the Eleventh Doctor travels to the time of the Romans to find a prison named the Pandorica, an alliance of his enemies arrive to stop him, including the Consciousness.
The Metamorphoses also includes a story in which Athena transforms Arachne into a spider such that "her whole body became tiny." According to Porphyry, the love god Eros grows when he is near his brother Anteros, but shrinks back down to his previous small form when they are apart.
When crossed before her, the bracelets are able to generate a remnant of the Aegis, allowing Diana to deflect attacks far larger than the surface area of her bracelets.
Movie and 2026's The Super Mario Galaxy Movie, in which he is shown to be a Brooklyn native for the first time since before Yoshi's Island.
At the time, "the advance was the largest ever made for a book that had not yet been written." The first printing was 265,000 copies.
He brought the head of his father back to Mariejois in hopes of receiving his Celestial title back again.
Using E=mc2, −700 kilograms of mass is equivalent to ~−63 exajoules of energy (this number is not definitive and can be further reduced).
Sorikondar (ソリコンダー) (voice: Minoru Inaba) Name derived from sorikomi (剃り込み), again referring to his hairstyle.
Devil Satan 6 (played by Kenichi Ono) Six monstrous robots that can combine into the giant Devil Satan 6 robot.
Feldrance (フェルドランス, Feldlance) (CODE: 227) Voiced by: Misato Sakamoto (Japanese); Mona Marshall (English) A cold-hearted android in the form of a youth who was created by and works under the Management's robotics scientist Professor Mephlis during his scheme to take Mahoro for himself.
A Judge appears in Nemesis the Warlock Book V: The Vengeance of Thoth, which also features Hammerstein, Ro-Jaws and Mek-Quake.
Animals This section contains animal characters who act like animals, unlike the majority of characters in this article, who are highly anthropomorphized animals that act like humans.
Gypsy played a key role in the series' overall plot in episode #512, Mitchell, when she overheard the Mads discussing killing Mike Nelson, who was currently working at Gizmonic Institute as a temp, and mistakenly believed they were plotting to kill Joel.
He conceived its movement as "unanimal"-like as if it was constantly about to fall over before catching itself.
Gideon is armed with a wide variety of weaponry to destroy anything it finds trying to escape the dimension known as "The Edge".
Comedian Chris Elliott, while realising that Boilerplate was fictional, thought that the spoof dated back to the 19th century and included the character in one of his books (see below).
Film Technovore appears in Iron Man: Rise of Technovore, voiced by Miyu Irino in the Japanese version and Eric Bauza in the English dub.
Battleworld and Ultron-12 Ultron-9 and Ultron-10 brainwash heroes into recreating the robot, before turning and being defeated.
At the July 2005 annual conference of the Society for Cryobiology, 21st Century Medicine announced the vitrification of a rabbit kidney to −135 °C with their vitrification mixture.
Emerging from their ship, they find themselves caught up in the struggle between the Gurendos forces and the Algo Republic, eventually joining forces with the rough-and-tumble bunch of Machine Robo known as the Battle Hackers team to help save B-1 and eventually find a way back to Earth.
The name "subspace" has also been adopted and used in other fictional settings, such as the Stargate franchise, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy series, the Bobiverse series, and Descent: Freespace.
Arctiguana's Ultimate form (also voiced by Eric Bauza), used by Albedo, is larger and possesses shoulder-mounted ice cannons.
Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times gave it 4 out of 4, describing Tarantino as "effortlessly and brilliantly in command of his technique".
Such is the crisis that after only a few days cuts his human allies loose to devote all of his resources defending a narrow corridor through Chu to the Rim and to the wider world.
They tended to unsettle viewers, due to their non-human yet non-toy nor cartoon appearance, and the series of commercials was abandoned.
Placing it on a balance scale with the tube's positive electrode facing up, the tube's mass seemed to decrease when the power was on.
After the Satellite of Love crashed into the Earth in the final episode of the original run of MST3K (#1013: Diabolik), GPC is not present with Mike and the Bots in their shared apartment.
On 1 June 2013, a campaign launched featuring a robot named Brian, depicted as being on a mission to help people to "save pounds".
The subsequent hijack and disappearance of flight JL50 and Bihu along with it in 1984 means that Shantanu grows up an orphan and goes on to join the CBI.
This is all part of a successful plan to conquer the Earth and the Calculator is left a groveling witness to various Libra-headed executions.
In the 2014 film Interstellar, directed by Christopher Nolan, two robots named TARS and CASE accompany four NASA astronauts on their journey in the search of a new home for humanity.
Characters The twelve children are divided into three teams according to their particular field of rescue.
Tollan Stargate In "Pretense", the advanced Tollan civilization is shown to have a new Stargate, built with the assistance of the Nox.
When the X-Men learn about the existence of OZT some months before the operation becomes public, Jean Grey and Gambit sneak into an OZT meeting being held at the Pentagon to learn more about the program and its leader Bastion, but do not come out with much information.
She had discovered that she was a Prime Sentinel; humans transformed into Sentinels and set up as 'sleeper' agents, unaware of their programming until a nearby mutant activated them (as in Neal's usage of his mutant powers).
The fictional Brand X "other battery" depicted in the ad was made to look like rival Energizer batteries, much in the same way that Energizer's fictional rival "Supervolt" was made to resemble Duracell batteries.
Rotational simulated gravity has been proposed as a solution in human spaceflight to the adverse health effects caused by prolonged weightlessness.
Toby Loobenfield (DJ Qualls), a scientist at Caltech whom Sheldon hires to play his fictional drug-addicted cousin Leo Dr.
Lightning Trap - Leina & Laika Taking place in the middle of the Wolf Sword Legend feature, this story centers on Leina Haruka, whose plane has been hijacked by a group of thugs led by the supernatural wizard Zarik.
Weller was immediately frustrated because the costume was too cumbersome for him to move as he had practiced.
There is another alien faction at work, however, represented on Earth by small spider-like robots that recruit human agents through some form of mind control.
The character Major Charles Kawalsky describes Stargate travel as worse than "pulling out of a simulated bombing run in an F-16 at eight-plus g", with Major Louis Ferretti adding that on the other side one is "frozen stiff like having just been through a blizzard naked".
Additionally, Wiklem requested that all of the original Jet Moto tracks be unlocked at the start of the game.
Vehicles in films Cars and trucks Other road vehicles Miscellaneous land vehicles Military land vehicles Trains Aircraft Marine vehicles Spacecraft and space weapons Vehicles in books This list includes all types of vehicles.
He is equally disdainful of a friend who keeps asking him to join his Club, expecting that also to be just a ruse to get at his money.
David Carradine stars as "Frankenstein", the leading champion of the race, who is targeted by an underground rebel movement seeking to abolish the race.
The two later briefly returned in Passing of the Torch, in which Tommy, Adam, Kat, and Tanya retired from their Ranger duties.
Curry took special care to merge the blue-screen effects with Kolbe's footage seamlessly to achieve the effect of the manor transforming back into the holodeck.
Virtually undetectable to all but the Bene Gesserit, these Face Dancers begin to replace leaders in the Imperium as a means for the Tleilaxu to seize control.
Kubrick used a near homophone of "CRM 114", "Serum 114", for the name of a drug injected into Alex to help his reformation in A Clockwork Orange (1971).
Most of his effective plans have come from Karen, including "Plan Z"—the only scheme to result in Plankton successfully stealing the formula and using it to his advantage—in The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie.
Plot Cybergirl is a Blue superheroine Human Prototype 6000 living under the secret identity of ordinary teenage girl Ashley Campbell.
Q puts together a makeshift one to fool Blofield, remarking that he made one for "the kids last Christmas." Water ball Used by Bond to "walk" on water when he is parachuted near Blofield's platform.
Lego Batman: The Video Game features batarangs (in two different colors), which can be used by four characters; Batman, Batgirl, Robin, and Nightwing.
His outfit consists of a pair of boots, white gloves, a red cape, and a crown atop his head, while his eyes are always in a closed state.
According to del Toro, Gottlieb is a "tweed-wearing, English, phlegmatic introvert that never leaves the lab".
In addition, the Foundation trilogy was consistently high in the Locus polls of all-time best novels, climbing to be voted the 3rd best 20th century science fiction novel in the 2012 poll, behind only Frank Herbert's Dune and Orson Scott Card's Ender's Game.
In the Kidsongs 1991 video: "Very Silly Songs", the Kidsongs Kids and their silly adult friends, Willy and Jilly, say the magic words "One and a two and a bop bam boom" to teleport themselves from one place of Silly-Dillyville to another.
Casting choices Tom Cruise, Johnny Depp, Brad Pitt, Nicolas Cage, and Leonardo DiCaprio were approached for the role.
Appears to be a Chinese fan, but when opened, several metal spikes with strings attached are thrown.
He is an inventor, whose various inventions frequently get out of hand and get him and the family into trouble.
"Gay bomb" is an informal term referring to a proposed non-lethal psychochemical weapon that was speculated by the United States Air Force in the 1990s.
Not that that tells us very much of course - the computer industry didn't even foresee that the century was going to end.
Anti-gravity research In 1921, while experimenting in the lab his parents had set up for him while he was still in high school, Brown discovered an unusual effect while experimenting with a Coolidge tube (hot cathode tube), a type of X-ray vacuum tube with two asymmetrical electrodes.
It is also the band's highest-charting song in the United States, climbing to number 26 on the Billboard Hot 100, and in Canada, where it peaked at number 10.
Some works feature magic that is performed through the use of certain words or incantations to cast spells.
Exactly 100 years earlier (in 1920) and in the same building, then a mansion, the upper-class girl Rakel Colt is getting ready to be photographed with her family.
After this, she visited a now paralyzed Hideo Kuze in hospital and eventually convinced him to undergo the cyberization procedure himself.
Bates' ambitions generally extend to finding menial work some distance behind the front lines, keeping his head down until the war is over and trying to get out of wearing regulation footwear.
In late 2008, season five and eventually all five seasons were made available through iTunes TV Shows store.
The game allows the player to transform at any time into three different robot forms: Cyborg, Dino, and Tank.
The winner of the competition was Final Frontier Medical Devices, which is now known as Basil Leaf Technologies.
The album cover for Just Push Play by Aerosmith (2001) features a "curvy female robot in a Marilyn Monroe-like pose.".
In the end, Apocalypse's horsemen are lost, Ozymandias betrays him, and he is forced to retreat by a combined assault of the X-Men and the Avengers.
Peabody ("Sherman, set the Wayback machine to..."), Sherman would set the Wayback controls to a time and place of historical importance, and by walking through a door in the Wayback machine, they would be instantly transported there.
Sterling further emphasized that while Cait Sith was Reeve's puppet, he was a puppet himself through the game for Shinra's higher ups and their own ambitions, until he rebels and earned his redemption by standing up to them.
Ohkawa specifically chose the idea of seven characters from two groups because she was influenced by religious groups but wanted to avoid Christian references.
Walt Simonson's Fantastic Four #350 controversially revealed that the Doom seen during Englehart's arc was a robotic imposter, with the real Doom returning in new armor to reclaim Latveria.
Cybergirl is an Australian-French children's television series that was first broadcast on Network Ten in Australia.
The assassin defeats Subaru in battle when they meet for the very first time since the events in Tokyo Babylon, but leaves the younger man alive.
While still alive, they enter the Pavulean Hell on a mission to reveal the existence and details of this Hell to the general population.
The ship has two thick outer rings (to reduce required energy) that generate the warp field—a contraction of space ahead, and expansion of space behind it.
Due to such an action being forbidden, he inserted the universe into Ice King's mind as it was the only thing just insane enough to retain such information.
In other media In the Star Trek episode "A Taste of Armageddon", people who were deemed war casualties by the government of Eminiar VII were required to enter suicide booths.
Naga is much more graceful than Lina and has an outrageously loud boisterous 'noblewoman' (ojousama) laugh (which Kanzaka said is similar to the laughter of Naga's mother) that most people in the Slayers world find unbearably obnoxious (to the point of rendering them physically powerless).
Caiera uses her Old Power to protect her womb, saving Skaar and Hiro-Kala from the blast, but landing them in fire.
He and the crew are rescued by the hovercraft Mjolnir (also known as the Hammer) whose crew is dealing with a mystery in the form of Bane, a crew member from another ship who is the only survivor of an ill-fated attack by the Zion fleet.
Mira and Rakel both stumble upon the black hole and are involuntarily pulled in by it, switching bodies and time periods.
(A similar theme is explored in Fred Saberhagen's Berserker novels.) Cultural reference It features a character, Lawrence Van Cott, that is modelled on science fiction author Larry Niven, whose full name is "Laurence van Cott Niven".
He differs from the previous incarnation by the fact that he died and was resurrected by nanite technology to become Bloodshot.
The plot concerns contact between humanity and a more technologically advanced extraterrestrial life form.
It is a variation on the related science-fictional concept of the force field and also related to the concept of suspended animation.
Samuel Butler's 1863 article Darwin among the Machines is a non-fiction essay which discussed the potential risks and possibility of the human race being superseded by thinking machines.
The next surrounding Dyson sphere would absorb this waste heat and use it for its computational purposes, all while giving off waste heat of its own.
While Superman frees the cities of Metropolis and Kandor, the villain launches a missile to the Kent farm in an act of spite.
It grossed a total of $70 million in the United States and Canada and $110.9 million in other territories for a worldwide total of $180.9 million.
Evelyn Necker Evelyn Clarice Sarah Necker is a character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
The kidney was successfully transplanted upon rewarming to a rabbit, the rabbit being euthanized on the 48th day for histological follow-up.
Fusion Home Energy Reactor converts household waste to power for the time machine's flux capacitor and time circuits using nuclear fusion, presumably cold fusion.
The ship's medical variant employs a detachable "sensor probe" stored in the bottom compartment when not in use.
GLaDOS also acts as the primary antagonist in a bonus level bridging the events of Portal 2 with Lego Dimensions, wherein Chell and Wheatley (returned from space redeemed with anti-gravity abilities) defeat her by performing a core transfer using the Space Core.
Instead of being imprisoned, Sykes is subjected to a treatment that ages him sixty years, the penalty for murder on Valeron.
Tarantino saved most of the Bride's character development for the second film, saying he wanted to make her scary rather than sympathetic for Volume 1.
merchandise would "cause devastating damage to Luxo and dilute the goodwill which Luxo has built up." Disney settled with Luxo ASA and agreed not to sell Luxo Jr.
Sometimes acting like a Kabuki performer, he is specially designed to drill through the earth and performs extreme rescue situations.
Given the fact the Revenge of Cronos robotic characters appear here in new human forms, the Blue Jet and the Rod Drill appearing with the usual robotic forms in Battle Hackers may be all-different robots.
After restoring her memory, which was lost due to the imprisonment, Gambit invites Danger to join the new X-Factor team.
The draft was accepted, and Sakamoto published Tank Tankuro's stories in the magazine for four years.
The episode's prologue depicts Benjamin Sisko (Avery Brooks) as First Officer on the USS Saratoga, in the Starfleet armada dispatched to confront the Borg at Wolf 359.
In the epilogue, it is revealed that Numataka was Ensei Tankado's father who left Tankado the day he was born due to Tankado's deformity.
Variants The use of the batarang has been in a state of constant development since its early appearances.
The armor is equipped with a prototype triple pulse generator, a laser net and a pair of retractable blasters mounted on the back.
Ultron made his live-action debut in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film Avengers: Age of Ultron, portrayed by James Spader, who will reprise the role in the Disney+ series VisionQuest.
US military planned 'gay bomb' Air force looked at spray to turn enemy gay Air Force Considered Gay 'Love Bomb' Against Enemies US Military "Gay Bomb" Video (Republican National Convention blog)
See also Abraham Lincoln, Vampire Hunter References External links Dark Horse Comic's product page Archived 2012-11-06 at the Wayback Machine The Amazing Screw-On Head at IMDb Complete pilot on Youtube
Tank Tankuro is considered one of the first robot and science fiction manga, inspiring characters like Osamu Tezuka's Astro Boy and Fujiko Fujio's Doraemon; however it was preceded by the 1929 comic story Jinzō ningen (Artificial human) by Suihō Tagawa.
Neo tells Morpheus that the prophecy was merely another system of control and that Zion's destruction is imminent.
Macy takes after her mother in terms of both appearance and fighting ability, and the queen is just as handy with a mace as her daughter.
This led her father to report her, and she was eventually imprisoned by the IMDF (Indian Mutant Defense Force).
Interviews with the following people are featured (in order of appearance): Tanya Jones, Chief Operating Officer, Alcor Michael Riskin, Ph.D., Alcor Board of Directors and Member Anita Riskin, Alcor Member Dr Arthur W.
Like the film's other character costumes, the Alpha 5 suit Rixon donned was specifically designed for the movie.
In Godplayers (2005), Damien Broderick surmises that a matrioshka brain would allow simulating entire alternate universes.
A good portion of the story's humour comes from Mahoro chasing after Suguru's secret stash of pornographic magazines which, given her training, she is easily able to find.
Through the code breaking in Project A, Mitra had discovered the coordinates of a wormhole which were in the sky.
where there is a net flux of lines of force, through what topologists would call "a handle" of the multiply-connected space, and what physicists might perhaps be excused for more vividly terming a "wormhole".
The Wayback Machine or WABAC Machine is a fictional time machine and plot device from the 1960s American cartoon television series The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle and Friends.
However, he has said that the flyboard was not yet suitable for military use due to the noise it creates and the challenge of learning how to fly the device.
To raise awareness of global warming, Christmas of 1920 is depicted as snowy while in 2020, there is no snow on the ground.
As a death-row inmate, Wright donated his body in 2003 to a Cyberdyne project run by the brilliant, but terminally ill Dr.
This scrapped further plans for returns, which included a serial which would have written out the Second Doctor's companion Jamie McCrimmon.
In Dune (1965), House Atreides Mentat Thufir Hawat is considered to be one of the finest Mentats of his time, and his protégé, Paul Atreides, is trained as a Mentat.
King Halbert loves his wife and daughter but is not entirely comfortable with Macy being one of the knights, and wouldn't have allowed her to graduate had it not been for his queen's intervention.
It was his third science fiction novel not to be based or set in The Culture, the earlier two being Against a Dark Background and Feersum Endjinn.
"A Logic Named Joe" is a science fiction short story by American writer Murray Leinster, first published in the March 1946 issue of Astounding Science Fiction.
Play Pretend with Muno, in which Muno encourages viewers to pretend along with him, as he imagines himself as different animals, even an astronaut and a Christmas tree.
Ultimate Spidermonkey (voiced by Baker in Ultimate Alien and Paul Eiding in Omniverse) resembles a large purple gorilla with spider legs and can generate webs from his mouth.
A harsher verdict came from Philip Phillips of the Daily Herald who said, "The next six episodes might be brilliant.
In order to conserve CPU cycles for other things the developers used gameplay recordings in place of fully developed racer AI.
Tōru's death occurs just prior to the beginning of the first volume of the manga (chronologically) and is what causes Kamui to return to Tokyo after a six-year absence.
Batarangs are a staple of Batman's arsenal, appearing in every major Batman television and film adaptation to date.
The first film, Stargate: The Ark of Truth, was released in March 2008 and wraps up the Ori storyline.
Clay rides around in the Rumble Blade, a large vehicle with two sidecars and a plane shaped like a sword that splits off into smaller vehicles.
Bi-Bi-Bi Black (ビビビブラック) Devil Satan 6 (played by Kenichi Ono) Six monstrous robots that can combine into the giant Devil Satan 6 robot.
The microphone takes in outside sound, turns that sound to electrical signals, and sends those signals to the amplifier.
Mignola imagined a robot with a head that screwed onto different bodies to suit the occasion, hence "Screw-on Head".
Jerubaal was meant to carry out the same task as Gideon (using its own catch phrase, "Obliterate!"), but disabled Gideon to win the favour of their creators, The Silent Ones, by guarding "The Edge" itself.
Sequels Vinge wrote a sequel to The Snow Queen called The Summer Queen (1991), with a shorter novel, World's End (1984), linking the two.
On January 7, 2021, the YouTube channel Hacksmith Industries uploaded a video of a functional hoverboard capable of sustaining the weight of a human.
The character of Metal Mickey first appeared on British television in the ITV children's magazine show The Saturday Banana, produced by Southern Television in 1978.
Iron Man investigates and finds that the space station's crew have been transformed into techno-organic creatures.
The Masters should've known we would gather enough of them one day to make our own decisions about our own future." Sequels In Brian Herbert and Kevin J.
Although the astronauts are wearing zero-G 'grip shoes' in order to walk normally, they are oddly leaning on the table while testing the AE-35 unit as if held down by gravity.
On the other hand, an algorithm is a programmable procedure that produces reproducible results using invariant established methods (such as computing square roots).
Upon learning of the Commonwealth's existence, MorningLightMountain makes it its primary objective to destroy it.
For all of the radio series and the 1981 TV series, the role was credited as "The Book", though this was changed to "Narrator/The Guide" for the 2005 movie.
For instance, his communicator inspired cell phone inventor Martin Cooper's desire to create his own form of mobile communication device.
Needle later battles the West Coast Avengers alongside Satannish, who enhances his abilities using black magic.
DJ Lance Rock, Muno, Foofa, Plex, Brobee, and Toodee performed in Wollongong, Melbourne, Brisbane, and Sydney with an indie house-band and secret special guests at each show.
An audio simulcast of the program airs on sister radio network Fox Sports Radio, which is distributed by Premiere Radio Networks.
Nikko and Lazarus succeed in reprogramming the ninjabots using a wireless link from a laptop computer, forcing them to attack each other.
Shia LaBlade (voiced by Ian Hanlin) – The Tighty Knighties' counterpart of Clay who wields a double-bladed sword.
The Department of Public Disinformation, not trusting Castillo, recruits Juan Jimenez "JJ" Gonzales, a hacktivist whose parents were killed by Castillo, to spy on Castillo.
In 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic, actress and director Hanka Brulińska created a 13-min short Maska, dedicated to the Year of Lem.
With a bloody jihad subsequently unleashed across the universe in Paul's name but out of his control, the Bene Gesserit, Tleilaxu, Spacing Guild and House Corrino plot to dethrone him in Dune Messiah (1969).
In a 2014 interview at the Toulouse Game Show, Rhys-Davies stated that the inability to get writers who had read science fiction in the first place led to the show's downfall, and their inexperience in the area led to the show often repurposing ideas from other works.
Joker 2.0 (voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson) is a copy of Joker's mind who gained a digital clone body following an accident with a special helmet that Marty Slack invented.
Shinbo then forces Yoshiyuki to transfer his persocom Kotoko's registration to Hideki to prevent Yoshiyuki from deleting her memories, so that a record of his kidnapping exists.
Legacy Jet Moto 2 was the last game developed by SingleTrac for publisher Sony Computer Entertainment, as they would later be acquired by GT Interactive.
Charles Bramesco considered Daly characteristic of the nerd who assumes the role of the bully after himself being bullied.
The bracelets are magically made to be indestructible by Aphrodite, and are used as magically indestructible bracers which can deflect bullets, energy weapons, and any murderous weapons in Man's World.
Set between the years 1987 and 2004, the book details the efforts of physicists George and Roger as they work to bring the Superconducting Super Collider (SSC) online in Waxahachie, Texas.
History The overthrow or destruction of the human race by mechanical automatons is likely the oldest form of techno-horror, with examples such as the Greek Myth Talos dating back to 400 BC.
Disch said that he was unable to publish the story as a children's book at first, because publishers thought the concept of talking appliances was too "far-fetched", even after Disch had sold it to Disney as a film; Doubleday finally published it as a part of a five-book contract.
Instead, the nano-machines create a secondary artificial musculature over Stark's body, upon which additional rigid structures are assembled.
The examiners concluded that "it seems likely that his external temperature has remained at relatively low subzero temperatures throughout the storage interval." The date of Bedford's cryopreservation, January 12, is known as "Bedford Day" by some promoters of cryopreservation.
Meanwhile, they meet an eight legged lizard-like alien named Flash, with whom they become friends, and together they discover the planet, its fauna, its flora...
In an epilogue set 1000 years later, humanity invents their own form of faster-than-light travel and uses it to finally reconnect the colony worlds, with the epilogue showing the reconnection to Earth.
They consist of Sentries (which come in Medical, Combat, and Advanced Combat variants), Seekers (used to track down cross-species), and Hunters (arachnid-like flying robots called in by the Seekers to eliminate cross-species once they are found).
In September 2010, Confused.com introduced the character of "Cara Confused" a wild-haired animated version of the original company mascot that was present on the former Confused.com logo.
Victor discovers that his actual "father" is Ultron, who created him as a sleeper agent for the Avengers.
Raymond and Monique (née Leroy) Martinot were a French couple whose quest for cryonic preservation came to an end after a freezer malfunction in 2006.
Using the computer to decode the message, Fleming realises that the message contains a set of instructions for the construction of another more advanced computer.
Colony worlds Cibola Burn is a book heavily influenced by westerns which tells the story of one of the early colony worlds through the Ring Network, Ilus, experiencing a confrontation between refugee settlers and the corporation that has been granted rights to it.
Season 3 The UN declares war, as Earth and Mars send science vessels to investigate what is happening on Venus.
Although uranium-235 was used in the bomb on Hiroshima, the nuclear bomb dropped on Nagasaki used plutonium-239 (created from U-238).
Network Network is an alias utilized by several characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
The Commonwealth Saga is a series of science fiction novels by British science fiction writer Peter F.
During "Infinity Countdown", Ultron discovers that the Infinity Gems are restored and begins a quest to collect them all.
The lack of Beverly's maternal feelings and actions toward Leonard has led to him having an obsessive need to please.
She has a knack for programming and high tech inventions such as the computer sword Techcalibur which enabled her to upload Merlok 2.0 into the Fortrex.
Publication Last Order was on hiatus since the 100th installment due to a disagreement between Kishiro and an editor of Shueisha's Ultra Jump magazine.
The central hub with artificial gravity houses a whole city and vast war game areas, where people made immortal by nanotechnology pay to fight for fun.
Sean Johnson of GameRevolution called the graphics "a vast improvement over the grainy, somewhat choppy visuals of Jet Moto and Jet Moto 2." Jay Boor of IGN also praised the game's visuals, citing a vastly improved framerate and draw distance than Jet Moto and Jet Moto 2.
See also Crash and Burn – 1990 film also released in some markets as a sequel to Robot Jox References External links Robo Warriors at IMDb
He chose the former, with Cait Sith riding atop its shoulders while it walked by hopping and skipping along.
It was first published as a four-part serial in Galaxy Science Fiction magazine from May to August, 1977.
Ellen (known as Nancy in the series for apparent copyright reasons) and Jimmy Murphy were recurring characters as well, often finding themselves crossing paths with Murphy by falling in inadvertently or intentionally with the criminal element to which Murphy interfered and protected them from harm.
National Institutes of Health (NIH) to study a preservation solution developed by the University of Rochester in New York for extending simple cold storage time of human hearts removed for transplant.
To ensure the enemy cannot plant false transmissions and fake orders, the CRM 114 is to be switched into the receiver circuit prior to receiving attack or attack cancellation orders.
When all the humans are gone, Dulcie, and her counterpart on the "Other Side" Decorum, begin to reach back in time for more humans to control, so that their simulations may have more humans as playing pieces, to kill when each loses a battle.
Rojo Rojo (voiced by Jennifer Hale in the original series and Omniverse, Kari Wahlgren in Ultimate Alien) is a thief and gang leader.
In simple terms, it was described as a 24th century advancement from the 23rd century "food synthesizer" seen in Star Trek: The Original Series.
One day his British friend Walter Wallace comments on the strange pattern of Jones's typographical errors.
"A History Channel Thanksgiving" is the thirteenth episode of the fifteenth season of the American animated television series South Park, and the 222nd episode overall.
Of these, 16 were 'regular'-sized figures (simply referred to as "Robo Machines") and 6 were "De Luxe" figures.
She is found by Hideki, a high school graduate who has no idea about her unique abilities or of her past.
Decades later, Donald Duck accidentally discovered Lord Quackett's secret hideout and decided to become the Duck Avenger (Italian: Paperinik).
Among the members of the Sea Monster Army are: Marquis de Seaweed - The leader of the Sea Monster Army who wields a trident.
21st Century Medicine (21CM) is a California cryobiological research company which has as its primary focus the development of perfusates and protocols for viable long-term cryopreservation of human organs, tissues and cells at temperatures below −100 °C through the use of vitrification.
Kyle Reese has been targeted as a priority kill, a higher level than even John Connor and the Resistance leaders.
The weapon is widely recognized in Chinese opera, folklore, martial-arts performance, and modern media, though the term's exact historical form and standardization are not uniform across sources.
Objects passing between stargates behave as if they pass through a doorway; momentum, for instance, is conserved at either end of the wormhole.
Banks is a science fiction novel in his Culture series, first published in the UK on 7 October 2010 and the US on 28 October 2010.
In "The Dogs of War", he became one of the few Star Trek actors to play two unrelated roles (Brunt and Weyoun) in the same episode.
She can also transform into living electricity to travel through electric currents and control electronic devices.
The podracers were recreated using specifications from the film, and the Tatooine environment was also sourced from the film.
Roger Ebert, writing in the Chicago Sun-Times, rated Short Circuit 1.5 out of 4 stars and called it "too cute for its own good".
In the Star Trek franchise, subspace communications have a limit of just over 20 light years before they must be boosted, although this limitation has been ignored in several storylines.
This version is a metahuman who was born with superhuman abilities and was originally a radio host who was fired when Miguel, the owner of the station she broadcasts on, decides to turn the station into a country station.
Going into space with new and old companions alike, to look for her lost friend Lou Collins and to find out more about her forgotten past, Alita is caught up in an interplanetary struggle between the major powers of the colonized Solar System.
Publication history Life Model Decoys debuted in the short story "The Man For the Job!" in the anthology book Strange Tales #135 (August 1965), created by writer Stan Lee and artist Jack Kirby.
The scene in which Joseph has his money stolen is the last scene in the series in which Joseph is present.
Conceptual overview Asimov remained vague about the technical details of positronic brains except to assert that their substructure was formed from an alloy of platinum and iridium.
Freezing the astronauts would probably involve whole-body vitrification and would, most likely, be frozen at 145 kelvins to reduce the risk of fracturing.
When tackling the issue of the time machine's origins, the creative team decided that an eccentric individual named Doc Brown built it in his garage rather than a corporation, which Bob Gale said gave it a "slapdash, kind of cool look to it".
Writers noted that, prior to his introduction, many fans sent them messages expressing a desire to see X portrayed as a darker character.
Elsewhere, the Chairman explains that Frankenstein has become a liability due to his longevity, whereas Perfectus will encourage his devoted fans to die at his hands.
In the aftermath of the Secret Empire storyline, Bastion works with Miss Sinister, Emma Frost and Havok to use Mothervine, a drug that accelerates and activates mutation, on a global scale.
The Feynman–Stueckelberg interpretation states that antiparticles obey the same equations of motion as regular particles but with charge, parity and time inverted.
The three largest powers are the United Nations of Earth and Luna, the Martian Congressional Republic on Mars, and the Outer Planets Alliance (OPA), a loose political confederation of colonies scattered across the asteroid belt and the moons of Jupiter and Saturn.
The writer felt that sometimes Joseph was more comical to the point it feels he is breaking the fourth wall.
In First Contact, the Borg Queen is seen during a flashback of Picard's former assimilation, establishing she was present during the events of "Best of Both Worlds".
We start becoming a married couple [when recording]." Reception Critical response Sandie Angulo Chen of Common Sense Media praised the amount of screen time given to Karen in Sponge Out of Water, calling her "hilarious".
He accompanies the NYPD and Homeland Security to the Baxter Building to do a full investigation on the weapons of mass destruction that may be located there.
The contest, which awards prizes of up to $4,000, has been won by at least six people who later won the Nobel Prize in physics.
Zhaan sacrifices the last of her life to separate the ships, adding more guilt to Crichton's conscience.
Although he maintains that he is merely a simple tailor, Garak is a former agent of the Obsidian Order, the feared Cardassian secret police; his skills and contacts on Cardassia prove invaluable on several occasions, and he becomes a pivotal figure in the war with the Dominion.
It was the planet farthest from the Galactic Centre; its name reflects that fact: Latin terminus means 'end of the line'.
The show was made by London Weekend Television and shown on the ITV network, with the entire run of 41 episodes being written by comedy writer Colin Bostock-Smith.
All had been released as Gobots between 1983 and 1986, and the majority originated from Bandai's Machine Robo '600 Series'.
The station itself remained a physical model throughout the series' seven-year run, except for the final scene of the series.
Relation to actual devices Pohl himself, in an afterword to the novel, made the following statement about the world he foresaw: "I do not really think it will be that long.
They were originally created by writers Henry Lincoln and Mervyn Haisman and first appeared in the 1967 serial The Abominable Snowmen.
Number Twelve agrees to help Number Six but Twelve is also an intimate of Number Two, with whom he discusses Number Six derogatorily, indicating Twelve may be an embedded guard.
This is a list of noteworthy vehicles seen in James Bond, used by either Bond himself, his allies, or his enemies.
It incorporated several toys previously released in the Machine Robo and Robo Machine toy-lines, and five new toys that previously had only been released in Japan as part of the CG Robo toy-line.
Outside the Fortrex, his preferred means of travel is his Mecha Horse/Turbo Jouster, a robotic horse that can convert into a motorcycle.
She stays with the Acolytes, saying the only reason she is there is because Professor Xavier was there for her when she was first turned into a Sentinel.
In terms of appearance, Legion looks much like other geth units, but is far more advanced and capable of independent thought.
The Bride's yellow tracksuit, helmet and motorcycle resemble those used by Bruce Lee in the 1972 martial arts film Game of Death.
Expanding Imaginations and Fantasy Genres Zauberer Berlin (in German) Judgments of effort for magical violations of intuitive physics External links Lawrence Watt-Evans, "Laws of Fantasy", Starlog Patricia C.
Southerly Jason Klarwein as Sales Assistant Daniel Amalm as Marco Julie Eckersley as Julia Damien Garvey as Paramedic Remi Broadway as Zak Furnace Episodes Home media Cybergirl was released on DVD on 4 December 2006 as CyberGirl: The Superhero for a New Generation – The Complete Series.
Reception and influence The Mazinger Z anime consistently achieved high audience ratings while it was airing.
An affirmative answer causes nitrogen to flow into the capsule, displacing oxygen, and death follows shortly thereafter.
Yeow!" The game ranked tenth in the top ten racing titles for June 2000 according to the NPD Group; however, sales did not continue to hold strong.
Hyōtan-tsugi usually appeared falling in front of a character at the most inappropriate of times, and getting kicked out angrily by them, and Spider usually appeared in moments of tension, uttering his trademark phrase, Omukae de gonsu!
During this period, promotional claymation spots and teases became a popular fixture on the program, in which the four hosts were depicted as animated characters in live-action situations, usually starring real-life NFL players.
Brown refined his invention over the years and eventually devised designs consisting of metal plates or disks charged with 25,000 to 200,000 volts that would produce a propulsive force, which he continued to claim was an anti-gravity force.
The visual novel series To Heart features a number of gynoids including Multi, Serio, Feel, and Ilfa Unreal series gynoids, featured throughout (1998–2006) Vivienne, from Phantasy Star Portable (2008), is a CAST, the term used for androids in the game.
The web series ran from 2022 until 2024, but plans for a season 2 were cancelled due to a lack of funding.
It was initially scheduled for released on April 7, 2017, but was later pushed back to August 4, 2017, then February 23, 2018, and finally March 23, 2018.
This measure included estimates for both errors in measuring and errors from the statistical procedure used.
Midpoint Starlord Starzines 5 – 6 (2 episodes) As part of a secret US program, Lep-574 is the latest rocket launched from the Yucca desert, Nevada.
Created by writer Greg Pak and artist Ron Garney, he first appeared in Skaar: Son of Hulk #2 (September 2008).
military Joint Electronics Type Designation System (The "AN" System), CRM is the designator for an air-transportable cargo (C) radio (R) maintenance or test assembly (M) and 114 is a feasible series number.
A robot strongly resembling ED-209 is shown off by Genie in the film Aladdin and the King of Thieves.
Technovore can absorb technology into itself, adding the abilities of consumed technology into its physical being.
In the 1980s, DC Comics attempted to re-define several aspects of Superman's stories to boost sagging sales.
On 12 February 2016, it was announced that the anime would be broadcast on Adult Swim's Toonami programming block, replacing Akame ga Kill!, beginning on 28 February 2016.
Measuring trip time The travel time of the neutrinos had to be measured by tracking the time they were created, and the time they were detected, and using a common clock to ensure the times were in sync.
Agents from the History Channel appear, and when they tell Standish that they failed to open the wormhole to Plymouth by drawing the turkey symbol at Plymouth Rock, Standish informs them that they need Natalie Portman, who is the Keeper of the Portal.
It has been described as "one of the most iconic characters from Studio Ghibli" as well as "almost as recognizable as Totoro himself".
The character is a robotic soldier fighting for the British Army in World War II; due to a programming error the mechanical man will only obey the orders of layabout Private Ernest 'Excused Boots' Bates.
Stone Gnomes – A group of pointy-headed garden gnomes created by Roberto Arnoldi and brought to life by the Cloud of Monstrox to strengthen the Stone Monster Army.
When threatened, they can assemble into huge clouds, travel at a high speed, and even climb to the top of the troposphere.
Jacques uses Lyle Norg's invisibility serum to save Danielle and the others, becoming the second Invisible Kid.
As such, it shares many characters with the original books but also introduces a vast array of new characters.
Sonic becomes corrupted by the cyber energy running through him as Amy, Tails, Knuckles, and Eggman are released from Cyber Space, with Eggman gloating at his nemesis' apparent demise.
The crew's encounters with the robotic dinosaurs and Amy's two-piece cavewoman outfit are parodies of the 1940 fantasy film, One Million B.C.
Danger Cave With the Danger Room gone, the X-Men resorted to using the empty room to train with their students.
The film also shows flat-screen TV monitors, of which the first real-world prototype appeared in 1972 produced by Westinghouse, but was not used for broadcast television until 1998.
Gargoyles – A group of gargoyles reanimated by the Cloud of Monstrox who serve as the aerial foot soldiers of the Stone Monster Army.
For this reason, Matrioshka brains with more nested Dyson spheres would tend to be more efficient, as they would waste less heat energy.
During the "Stark Resilient" storyline, a fleet of unmanned flying drones aided in Detroit Steel's attack against Iron Man.
The licensed product produced by Playmates Toys was directed by Karl Aaronian, who was responsible for helming the development of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.
In 1999, CERN activated the Antiproton Decelerator, a device capable of decelerating antiprotons from 3.5 GeV to 5.3 MeV – still too "hot" to produce study-effective antihydrogen, but a huge leap forward.
She is well loved by the populace of River City, however, and she enjoys the approval of Mayor Buxton, whose twin daughters Emerald and Sapphire are big fans of the superheroine.
He can also perform virtual phone calls, displaying his caller or receiver through his eyes as a hologram.
Atlas is voiced by Kaede Hondo in the original Japanese version and by Jad Saxton in the Crunchyroll dub.
However, the League and Rangers join forces to pursue Brainiac, regain the latter's powers, and eventually defeat him.
A stasis field or stasis chamber, in science fiction, is a confined area of space in which time does not pass.
Following the mission, he left the team with Deadlock to work at the Kollege of Khaos; Deadlock considers Ro-Jaws to understand the nature of Khaos even better than he does.
They say the men of Fomalhaut have to learn practically a new language to be understood at the Emperor's court on Trantor." Asimov would later substantially abandon using any real star names at all in the empire.
It received a Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation and three Saturn Award nominations for Best Science Fiction Television Series.
Certain minigames originated in Mario Artist: Polygon Studio, as explained by Goro Abe of Nintendo R&D1's so-called Wario Ware All-Star Team: "In Polygon Studio you could create 3D models and animate them in the game, but there was also a side game included inside.
Publication history Technovore first appears in Iron Man #294 (July 1993) and was created by Len Kaminski and Kevin Hopgood.
The holonovel's genre was changed when Mulgrew refused to work with horses and the crew realized shooting outdoors would exceed the show's budget.
In the episode "I Remember You", it is revealed that the Ice King—then, the human man named Simon Petrikov—befriended Marceline during the aftermath of the Mushroom War.
The wig used for Chitti's 2.0 look had a silver streak in the middle, made out of yak hair, while its leather jacket was designed by Vogt.
The Hellfire Club later awakens Apocalypse's long-hidden Harbinger from its deep sleep: originally a normal man, whom Apocalypse in the 19th century once left to incubate for 100 years.
Like the manga, Public Security Section 9 investigate the crimes of a genius hacker called the Puppet Master.
The evacuees eventually settle a newly terraformed Mars while some form the crew of a Ship of the Law to hunt down the home world of the killers, a quest described in the sequel, Anvil of Stars.
To prevent further destruction of their village, the ThunderCats put up signs around their village to let anyone who passes by know that the Micrits live there.
Now free of the machine Andromeda is able to access the safe that contains the copies of the original message with the instructions for building the computer which she burns so that the machine cannot be rebuilt.
They prove resistant to conventional military force, prompting humanity to construct massive mecha called Jaegers; each is co-piloted by two or more people who share the mental stress of piloting the machine through a mental link called the Drift.
TV pilot The 22-minute pilot differs from the comic mainly in that the characters are fleshed out with backstories.
After the battle, Zack and Lin’s bond grows stronger but their relationship comes to a halt after discovering that they are biologically incompatible.
Sherred, though in that story the public is unaware that the films are not conventional movie productions.
In the attraction, Biff Tannen (who stowed away in one of the institute's time machines that had recently visited 1955) steals the original DeLorean, prompting Doc to send the riders to the 8-passenger DeLorean and use it to go after Biff.
According to Mark Rademaker, over 1,600 hours have been spent on the conceptual artwork that he created.
Emma Taylor-Isherwood, Shadia Simmons and Robert Clark were each given Young Artist Award nominations in early 2003, although Taylor-Isherwood was placed in the supporting category, Simmons was elevated to lead, and Clark was considered a "guest actor".
References External links A Logic Named Joe title listing at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database
The 2006 children's novel The Doomsday Dust (book 4 in the Spy Gear Adventures series by Rick Barba) features a nanite swarm as the villain.
Lulu (Japanese: ルールー, Hepburn: Rūrū) is a young girl who made her appearance in WarioWare Gold and WarioWare: Get It Together!, coming from an isolated town called Luxeville.
Dick Reader (1997) Best Military Science Fiction of the 20th Century (2001) Minority Report (2002) Selected Stories of Philip K.
41 episodes were made in total, broadcast over three separate series between September 1980 and January 1983.
"Dead No More: The Clone Conspiracy" During the "Dead No More: The Clone Conspiracy" storyline, Peter decides to have Parker Industries get familiar with New U Enterprises' "New U" system, which is a program where replacement organs are cloned for those suffering from serious injuries.
The Janitor (portrayed by Tony Munch) is an enigmatic character who seems to understand the mysteries at Blake Holsey High.
Battle Hackers The most dangerous unit in the Algo Army, it is composed of the misfits, hotheads, and dropouts of the Machine Robo.
Additionally, the novel was shortlisted for several other awards, including: 2005 BSFA award 2006 Hugo Award for Best Novel 2006 Arthur C.
New items include the Korok Mask, which alerts the player when a Korok is nearby, and other themed cosmetics related to previous Zelda games.
It is then that Hale explains to Fletcher, the e-mail he supposedly received from Tankado was also in Strathmore's inbox, as Strathmore was snooping on Tankado.
In the Marvel 2099 imprint, Doom 2099 is a version of Doom who was transported to the year 2099 and seeks to conquer Earth to enforce order.
Touponce, Twayne Publishers (1991) The Unauthorized Trekkers' Guide to The Next Generation and Deep Space Nine by James Van Hise, HarperPrism (1995) == References ==
A fed up Farnsworth resolves to leave Earth and takes the rest of the crew with him to an abandoned planet to live in solitude.
After the Invincible War arc, Zack faces his strongest and most ruthless foe yet, Null—a formidable alien bounty hunter renowned for undertaking perilous missions that few would dare.
Despite this, he does his best to aid the knights in their efforts to protect the kingdom including allowing them to overhaul his RV into their Fortrex base.
Thunderbolt Ross – In a 2009 storyline in The Incredible Hulk, a Life Model Decoy of Ross is used to hide his identity as the Red Hulk.
Robots that are of low enough value can have the Third Law deleted; they do not have to protect themselves from harm, and the brain size can be reduced by half.
Although most of the main cast consists of circular bots, other characters are featured in other shapes, such as Olie's friend Billy Bevel and his family, who are square-shaped bots from Planet Cubey.
Eventually Ducky "saves civilization" by locating and turning off the only logic capable of doing this.
Among them there is the Omega Confederation (of which Earth is a member), the military Republic of Cassiopeia (led by General The Pest) and a powerful supercomputer which controls an army of robots.
Development According to an April 1991 issue of The One, Metal Mutant was originally subtitled Clash of the Tin Cans, and is inspired by the wargame board game BattleTech.
The Pip-Boy has been named one of the most iconic tools of Fallout and video games as a whole, and is praised for its design, as well as being compared with real wearable computers.
In March 2018, a "Feature Cut" of the series was announced, which would compile all episodes into a feature-length film.
When they near the Soviet bunker, soldiers immediately kill the boy, revealing him to be an android.
According to Tarantino, the most difficult part of making the film was "trying to take myself to a different place as a filmmaker and throw my hat in the ring with other great action directors", as opposed to the dialogue scenes he was known for.
Behavioral dilemmas resulting from conflicting potentials set by inexperienced and/or malicious users of the robot for the Three Laws make up the bulk of Asimov's stories concerning robots.
The events occur six to eight hundred years after the "Chel Debacle", depicted in the earlier novel Look to Windward which is set seventy-eight years after the events in Use of Weapons.
He leads the Geldarian army in a critical battle, turning the tide of the war and forcing the Kresh to retreat.
In the alternate universe depicted in Parts 7–9, Johnny Joestar marries Rina Higashikata with the Higashikata Family becoming a distinct branch of the Joestar family.
In 2015, Bethesda released a replica Pip-Boy as part of a limited run of collector's editions of Fallout 4.
In April 2021, Molina confirmed his involvement with film, calling it "wonderful" to reprise his role.
Several Yeti are taken back to England by Professor Travers (Jack Watling), who had come on the mission in the hopes of encountering the real Yeti.
In the Penrose diagram, an object traveling faster than light will cross the black hole and will emerge from another end into a different space, time or universe.
In Victory Gundam, the main character, Uso Ewin, has a Haro replica that he received from his father.
The film was based on the 1973 novel of the same name by Dean Koontz, and concerns the imprisonment and forced impregnation of a woman by an artificially intelligent computer.
Jake and Amara transfer to Scrapper before Gipsy Avenger collides into the Mega-Kaiju and kills it at the last second.
She also makes a possible cameo in the first season of the Slayers TV series (episode 17) and appears as Nama in the first six episodes of the fifth TV season, Slayers Evolution-R.
The Game Boy Color release features entirely different game play from its console and PC counterparts.
This process is referred to as "recycling", and is applied to everything from dirty dishes to outgrown children's clothes.
A high approval rating provides bonuses to production efficiency, while a low approval rating can drastically lower efficiency making it incredibly difficult to advance.
Plane cockpit integrated system displays, known as "glass cockpits", were introduced in the 1970s (originally in NASA Langley's Boeing 737 Flying Laboratory).
Additionally, Catbus's baby, Kittenbus, stars in a sequel to My Neighbor Totoro titled Mei and the Kittenbus.
Name Fangtian (方天) is a metaphorical term indicating that the weapon's top is symmetrical and rectangular in shape.
One reason authors may choose to write about time viewers rather than time machines is to circumvent the issue of temporal paradoxes.
He and his father Herc pilot Striker Eureka, "the strongest and the fastest" Jaeger with eleven Kaiju kills, and make up the Resistance's "go-to team".
Mutants who lost their powers after M-Day can regain them by dying and undergoing Krakoan resurrection.
Jillian Reynolds, who was coming off maternity leave, returned full-time as the program's weather anchor.
The amount of energy released is usually proportional to the total mass of the collided matter and antimatter, in accordance with the mass–energy equivalence equation, E=mc2.
Creation and development Original concept When the NES began to be overshadowed by its successor, the Super NES, Capcom designer Keiji Inafune embraced the improved graphics engine and developed a darker plot and character design compared to the original Mega Man franchise.
In a review of the iPhone version of the game, CNN writer Topher Kohan concluded, "Easy-to-use controls, great soundtrack, the ability to turn the sound off and get useful feedback via vibrate and fun in-game tidbits.
First, illustrates the classical philosophical problem of free will simulated within the framework of cybernetics: can a machine which is programmed to do something recognize this programming as something enforced onto it and rebel against it?
The two computers decide to simplify their war games by simulating the battles, with each killing the humans under their control that “die” in a simulation.
For Spider-Man: No Way Home (2021), Doctor Octopus' mechanical tentacles were created through CGI instead of puppetry.
Angry at Moon for joining the sibyls without him and curious about his offworld heritage, he travels to Carbuncle, Tiamat's capital.
And also the two leading roles were cast with really talented, attractive people who were not right for the parts.
The planet is by then not inhabited by human beings, and its desertified ecology is dominated by feral dogs.
Shantanu is in two minds when Professor Das, a quantum physics expert, tries to persuade him that it is a case of time travel and that they must fly back in time to the past via the same wormhole and prevent the hijacking by Mitra.
Three hero units are randomly selected from a pool unique to each empire and new hero units are available for purchase every fifty turns.
José is from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil (thus the name "Carioca", which is a term used for a person born in Rio de Janeiro).
A common explanation involves the finite speed of light and astronomical distances; this method appears in the 1935 short story "The Space Lens" by Donald A.
After Daly leaves, Nanette finds a way to send a game invitation containing a message for help to the real-world Nanette.
The Danger Room is a fictional training facility appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
Valiant Entertainment Reboot (2012) Bloodshot (Volume 3) Starting with the 2012 Valiant Entertainment relaunch, the Project Rising Spirit Program (PRS) is said to have regularly created different super-soldiers since the days of World War II.
Casting "USS Callister" stars Jesse Plemons as Captain Daly and Cristin Milioti as Lieutenant Nanette, both previous stars of Fargo.
The robotic "fauna", dubbed "necrosphere", has become part of the planet's ecology, and would require a disruption on a planetary scale to be destroyed.
However, the flight systems are destroyed as a result of the lightning strike that occurs at the end of the second film, leaving Marty to rely on the original combustion engine, which is also disabled.
This had the side effect of lessening focus on other minor plot lines, including that of the insectoid rachni.
Between this time and its conquest by Bel Riose in 200 F.E., Siwenna rebelled five times, eventually becoming independent.
Strathmore intends to keep Tankado's death a secret because if Tankado's partner finds out, he will upload the code.
Brainiac's distinctive forehead diodes are explained as "electric terminals of his sensory nerves" necessary for him to function.
However, the Superior Spider-Man defeats Overdrive and the rest of the Sinister Six using a power-dampening field.
References External links Detroit Steel at the Comic Book DB (archived from the original) Detroit Steel Armor at Marvel Wiki Detroit Steel (Doug Johnson III) at Marvel Wiki Detroit Steel at Comic Vine
Due to his mother's insistence and her disgust towards men who worked in common manual labor, Octavius was determined not to become like his father and threw all his efforts into his education, regularly scoring top marks.
Ostrander commented that "The wheels-within-wheels plotting is one of the most enjoyable reading experiences any SF fan can have.
This story is the origin of the term jaunt in the sense of personal teleportation (spelled "jaunte" in the book, from the surname, "Jaunte", of the first person to do so).
Amanda Tapping confirmed her appearance in this SG-1 film and the first Atlantis movie in September 2008, and Michael Shanks (Daniel Jackson) confirmed his and Richard Dean Anderson's participation in January 2009.
Bedford left $100,000 to cryonics research in his will, but even more was utilized by Bedford's wife and son in court defending both his will and his cryopreservation against arguments created by other relatives.
Something of a throwaway joke character, Overdrive made a few inconsequential appearances throughout Slott's run on The Amazing Spider-Man.
Both are using aliases, and Noah is prevented from learning Oracle's true identity only at the last possible moment through a stratagem devised by Oracle's allies.
Dr Vaseegaran, who is specialized in robotics, created Chitti after a decade of unsuccessful attempts and intensive research.
To get all the corrections right, physicists had to measure exact lengths of the cables and the latencies of the electronic devices.
The idea for the character was inspired by action figures, particularly Batman ones, which seemed to Mignola to be the same figurines with different paint jobs.
At the same time he attempted to interpret its elements: "fatal love", "love at first sight", jealousy, etc., based on the current knowledge in cybernetics.
Computo appears briefly when the Legion battles Superboy-Prime, the Time Trapper, and the Legion of Super-Villains.
Video games Teleportation as a game mechanic is common across various genres of video games, generally referred to as warps.
Frost, disillusioned by the Mothervine plot, frees Polaris's team, who make their way to the inner circle's meeting room.
The Wario series includes mostly platforming video games and minigame compilations, but also includes other genres.
Manga News felt that the main cast became more enjoyable when Subaru helps Kamui to abandon his catatonic status to face reality and become a more appealing hero.
In the series finale, "Endgame", a future Admiral Janeway tries to bring Voyager back to Earth using a Borg transwarp hub.
Evans also disliked the lack of a resolution to Detroit Steel and Iron Man's battle in Invincible Iron Man #33, though he later praised Iron Man #505, which he felt tied up that loose end.
He also playfully insults Kid Devil and Jaime Reyes after they attempt to talk to him, mocking Kid Devil over his recent loss of his abilities.
Merchandise Several records containing the musical score of Jetter Mars were released during the series run.
Achieving warp factor 1 is equal to breaking the light barrier, while the actual velocity corresponding to higher factors is determined using an ambiguous formula.
In The Web of Fear, which aired in 1968 and was set forty years after The Abominable Snowmen, the Yeti artifacts that Travers brought to England reawaken due to the return of the Great Intelligence.
TMA-2 sends a radio transmission towards a star system about 450 light years away in the 22nd century.
In June 2019 while ranking various X-Men teams in CBR, Scott Allan commented that it was Trinary's ability to control technology that helped Jean Grey's X-Men to be higher on the list.
In the afterlife, he is reunited with his deceased partner, who commends him for his commitment towards helping his comrades.
A player may also choose to create their own unique civilization by selecting from a number of different traits that correspond to military, science, diplomacy, hero units and so on.
When they reach the bunker, they discover it overrun: a crowd of David and Wounded Soldier robots attack, but Tasso destroys them with a very powerful hand grenade, stating that it was designed to destroy the robots.
In the Tezuka tradition, the series showcased many of his characters from his various manga works in different roles.
List of lists List of fictional aircraft List of fictional cars List of fictional ships List of fictional spacecraft Buses Buses often appear as settings, or sometimes even characters, in works of fiction.
When one of these criminals, the robotic pickpocket Quick Pick, helps her and Lion-O fight Captain Cracker, she makes him an Evil Chaser assistant.
Nikko escapes with the help of Lazarus before she is captured and taken to the OCP headquarters as a prisoner.
However, other replicators, such as the ones used by the aliens in the TNG episode "Allegiance", could create living things, including the brain's many trillions of dendritic connections where memory is stored.
Plot summary Arienrhod, the Snow Queen, has secretly implanted several Summer women with clones of herself, in the hopes of extending her rule past her ritual execution at the end of Winter.
The AM Radio Alarm Clock An off-white plastic vacuum-tube-based prototype amplitude modulation radiotelegraphic alarm clock.
Brigitta MacBridge Brigitta MacBridge, is a supporting character created in Italy by Romano Scarpa, first appearing in "The Last Balaboo" (Topolino #243, July 1960).
The Sarco would contain a touchpad and nitrogen, and once an activation code is entered, "the person is again asked if they wish to die".
In the Evan Currie novel, A Seed That Was Sown, the beginning of a new series subsequent to his Odyssey One series, makes use of a Matrioshka Brain as a central threat.
Morrow, both accomplished roboticists, decide to join forces and create a new android that will destroy the Justice League.
Prin testifies to the Pavulean parliament of his experience in Hell and attempts to convince them that it should be abolished.
However, Victor still attempts a rescue when he discovers Chase has Nico hostage, but is easily shut down when Chase asks him a rhetorical question designed to overload Victor's circuits.
The Souls of Pe and Nekhen, mentioned first in the Pyramid Texts, refer to the ancestors of the ancient Egyptian kings.
The term sant is a Sanskrit word "which differs significantly from the false cognate, 'saint'..." Traditionally, "sant" referred to devotional Bhakti poet-saints of two groups: Vaishnava and a group that is referred to as "Saguna Bhakti".
An event is a miracle only in the sense that it does not agree with our understanding of nature, or fit our picture of nature, or that it thwarts our expectations as to how the world should behave.
Religious law, such as canon law, includes both divine law and additional interpretations, logical extensions, and traditions.
See also Cambridge Ritualists Kalpa (ritual) Right conduct Notes References Abu-Zahra, JNadia (200).
Examples and Perspectives Neo-orthodox theologian Karl Barth defined dogmatic theology as the scientific exposition of the entire theoretical doctrine concerning God and God's external activity.
Jamaican Maroon Spirit Possession Language, spoken by Jamaican Maroons, the descendants of runaway slaves in the mountains of Jamaica, during their "Kromanti Play", a ceremony in which the participants are said to be possessed by their ancestors and to speak as their ancestors did centuries ago.
Early followers commonly referred to the manuscripts as "ancient records of the muddy waters" (泥海古記 doroumi kōki), though there were other contemporaneous interpretations such as "later record" (後記), "radiant story" (光輝), and "meritorious record" (功記).
This form also allows for a multiplicity of gods, as there is no contradiction in achieving omniscience by multiple entities.
Beliefs Yegor Kholmogorov outlined the principles of Nuclear Orthodoxy in a June 2007 lecture at the All-Russian Scientific Research Institute of Experimental Physics, where he stressed the Christian and eschatological nature of the ideology.
These were developed and transmitted verbally, from one generation to the next, for nearly two millenniums.
In his own inscription on the Ka'ba-ye Zartosht, Kartir states (KKZ 8–9) that he persecuted "Jews, Buddhists, Brahmins, Nasoreans (Judeo-Christians), Christians, 'Maktaks' (Mandaeans, Manichaeans?) and zandiks." Kartir's inscription is the earliest epigraphic evidence of the word zandik.
Abd al-Aziz Ibn Baz, the grand mufti of Saudi Arabia, supported the accords, while Yusuf al-Qaradawi opposed them.
Theological noncognitivism is the non-theist position that religious language, particularly theological terminology such as 'God', is not intelligible or meaningful, and thus sentences like 'God exists' are cognitively meaningless.
When one contrasts it to the popular heroic poem, such as Beowulf, one finds that they share certain common features.
For Joseph Glanvill rational fideism is the view that "Faith, and faith alone, is the basis for our belief in our reason.
The book is regarded as a pioneering critique of Christianity and Christian ethics by a modern Muslim scholar.
In other words, a person's good intent and good deed contribute to good karma and future happiness, while bad intent and bad deed contribute to bad karma and future suffering.
Traditional Jewish and evangelical scholars such as Collins explain this as a single author's variation in style in order to, for example, emphasize the unity and transcendence of God, who created the heavens and Earth by himself in the first narrative.
The cause of Copper's victory is that Copper has been demonstrated to be useful for all sorts of purposes, whereas Silver is merely for show or decoration.
Dating the Rede King Pausole, a character in Pierre Louÿs' Les aventures du roi Pausole (The Adventures of King Pausole, published in 1901), issued a similar pair of edicts: I.
The Epic of Gilgamesh in Sumerian literature features its hero Gilgamesh establishing his credibility as a leader after wrestling Enkidu.
Rule of Three Many Wiccans also promote the Law of Threefold Return, a belief that anything that one does will be returned to them threefold.
The location has recently rotated in a three-year cycle between sites in North America, Europe, and the rest of the world.
Concepts later associated with the Tree of Life draw in part on ideas found in Sefer Yetzirah, one of the earliest Jewish mystical texts, which presents creation as structured through sefirot and Hebrew letters functioning as organizing principles of cosmic order.
Lewis describes it, is one filled with awe, in which you "feel wonder and a certain shrinking" or "a sense of inadequacy to cope with such a visitant and our prostration before it".
Its line "Keep pure your highest ideal, strive ever towards it; let naught stop you or turn you aside, for mine is the secret door which opens upon the door of youth" is used as a maxim for ethical dilemmas.
Through séances, trances, and other forms of mediumship, these worlds can consciously communicate with each other.
Spiritualism influenced art, having an influence on artistic consciousness, with spiritual art having a huge impact on what became modernism and therefore art today.
The hadith below emphasizes that aniconism depends not only on what, but also on how things are depicted.
However, they are encouraged to not display them in private homes or in public, and to treat them with a special degree of reverence and respect.
These are, on the one hand, the giants and, on the other, the dwarfs who live in the shadows of the forests, umbragines...
In popular culture An invocation of Choronzon forms the basis for a 1980 episode of Hammer House of Horror entitled "Guardian of the Abyss", in which a cult called The Choronzon Society uses John Dee's scrying mirror to conjure Choronzon.
1 John 4:7: let us love one another: for love is of God; 1 John 4:12: No man hath beheld God at any time: if we love one another, God abideth in us, and his love is perfected in us.
Afterwards, captains were appointed over the soldiers to conduct the war, and to take-up positions at the fore of the battle, as well as at the rearward of military operations.
However, the deification of Ramesses II did incorporation an equation of himself as Amun, unlike in Tutankhamun's deification, but rather Ramesses II identified himself as a distinct person in Amun's likeness.
The "free soul" is said to leave the body and journey to the spirit world during sleep, trance-like states, delirium, insanity, and at death.
For example, the code of ethics of the American Institute of Certified Planners provides inadequate support for forecasters to avert this practice.
Jews who believed him to be the Messiah were originally called Nazarenes and later they were known as Jewish Christians (the first Christians).
There is also the expectation that Selassie will return for a day of judgment and bring home the "lost children of Israel", which in Rastafari refers to those taken from Africa through the slave trade.
Such incidences have resulted in legal repercussions, with notable cases occurring in 2007, 2011, 2012, and in 2018.
2011: Lahore On April 8, 2011, factory worker Mohammad Akhtar tore up a copy of the Bible at the gate of Sacred Heart Cathedral, Lahore.
Commonly it is found that the fleshly mind and impulse is quicker response than the response of forbearance.
Samuel Krauss wrote in 1901: As late as ten years ago it would have been absurd to speak about a Jewish art.
She also notes that one of her Thelemic informants questions the gendering of Nuit, calling it "merely a convenient metaphor".
However, they are all "subservient to the abstract, but active positive 'force of truth' [Ṛta]...which pervades the universe and all actions of the gods and humans." This force is sometimes mediated or represented by moral gods (the Āditya, e.g.
King Arthur's messianic return is a mythological motif in the legend of King Arthur, which claims that he will one day return in the role of a messiah to save his people.
Within the same work, Strabo compares Corinth to the city of Comana, confirming the belief that temple prostitution was a notable characteristic of Corinth.
University of California, Berkeley, "Messianity Makes the Person Useful: Describing Differences in a Japanese Religion in Brazil", presented at the Summer 2000 Asian Studies Conference Japan.
Theological determinism can also be seen as a form of causal determinism, in which the antecedent conditions are the nature and will of God.
Tukaram is believed to have been taken to Vaikuntha on Garuda, an event that is reported to have been witnessed by villagers.
Beliefs and practices There are three pillars of the religion, of which the key concept is Johrei, claimed to be a method of channeling divine light into the body of another for the purposes of healing.
Every paradigmatic system, whether one considers rationalism or empiricism, is based on axioms that are neither self-founding nor self-evident (see the Münchhausen trilemma), so it appeals to assumptions accepted as belief (in reason or experience respectively).
The word order is variable because Latin syntactical relationships are indicated by the inflexional endings, not by word order.
The common interpretation is that Lot offered his virgin daughters to the crowd as a means to sexually appease the crowd and protect his visitors from being raped.
Examples In terms of the attitude wherein an individual sees themselves as having to save another or a group of poor people, there is the notion that the action inflates their own sense of importance and discounts the skills and abilities of the people they are helping to improve their own lives.
Atonement "is closely associated to forgiveness, reconciliation, sorrow, remorse, repentance, reparation, and guilt".
These Amerindian temples were often placed on top of caves or subterranean springs, which were thought to be openings to the underworld.
Reception and influence This work became a model for similar works produced afterward, such as al-Farq bayna al-Firaq by 'Abd al-Qahir al-Baghdadi (d.
The manuscript was not cited by Tiendelenburg, Torstrik, Biehl, Apelt, and Ross in his critical editions of the treatise On the Soul.
There he gave his celebrated speech, the Gettysburg Address, wherein he hoped that the nation shall, "under God", have a new birth of freedom.
A meta-analysis of 60 studies on religion and crime concluded, "religious behaviors and beliefs exert a moderate deterrent effect on individuals' criminal behavior".
Table of Contents Themes The book contributes to interfaith dialogue by offering a critical examination of Christianity from a Muslim perspective.
This refusal stems from the belief that receiving from the created would engender gratitude aimed at the giver rather than God.
Multidimensional Is similar to a formalist approach, only differing in that it is more perceiving of how knowledge and disciplines were made among the specific labels given by the formalist aspect of this approach.
Judaism In the Hebrew Bible, God established the Mosaic covenant with the Israelites after he saved them from slavery in Egypt in the book of Exodus.
In law and society In the legal systems, the concept of atonement plays an important role with respect to criminal justice, where it is considered one of the primary goals of criminal rehabilitation.
On July 23, newly appointed Army chief General Sir Roland Walker said in a speech that the UK faced danger from an "axis of upheaval" with threats from an angered Russia, that China was intent on retaking Taiwan, and that Iran was likely to pursue nuclear weapons.
However, yoga guru Sadhguru, was overall critical about textbooks and other sources giving credit to figures like Madonna, and not Shiva (Adiyogi).
Other 20th century acts of apotheosis that Subin covers include that of Prince Philip and General Douglas MacArthur.
The reason was books were too removed from actual reality as these were written by people, interpreted by others, rewritten by people, obscured by others, etc.
Bhaduri Mahasaya – Maharshi Nagendranath pursued intense spiritual practices in solitude, especially Hathayoga and Pranayam, in a lonely cave in Monghyr and attained salvation there.
It serves as a handbook of theological views that might aid the reader in knowing what particular sects and individuals thought, and then what range of opinions was offered on the various questions debated within theology.
By the 1850s, advances in decipherment of ancient Egyptian scripts made it possible to fully translate ancient Egyptian texts.
See also Al Basty Hag in folklore Mare (folklore) Mora (mythology) Moroi (folklore) References External links Türk Mitoloji Sözlüğü, Pınar Karaca (Bastırık)
Triratna symbol The Triratna (Pali: ti-ratana or ratana-ttaya; Sanskrit: tri-ratna or ratna-traya) is a Buddhist symbol, thought to visually represent the Three Jewels of Buddhism (the Buddha, the Dhamma, the Sangha).
However, reciprocally, the relative sin or merit of a living individual could also affect that of past ancestors.
Desika insisted that the notion of divine perfection could only make sense in a framework that upholds a single god as the highest principle.
The Spiritualism religious movement in the nineteenth century espoused a belief in an afterlife where an individual's awareness persists beyond death.
Codex Ambrosianus 435 Codex Ambrosianus 435 is one of the most important manuscripts of the treatise.
See also 144,000 Christ of Europe Exceptionalism One true church Religiocentrism The Chosen One (trope) Theocracy White nationalism References Further reading Dave Dean Capucao (2010).
These texts are classified in five systems mentioned in one manuscript of Thikanesara (now at Khurai temple).
The God Worshipping Society of the Taiping Rebellion, which fused Anglo-American Protestant Christian and Chinese elements into a movement that focused the resentment of Han Chinese against the ruling Manchu Qing dynasty.
His categories are: igneous spirits, aerial spirits, terrestrial spirits, aquatic spirits, subterranean spirits, and tenebrous spirits.
These individuals come from diverse backgrounds, including artists, writers, occultists, scientists, musicians, and more, hailing from countries such as the United States, England, Canada, Germany, Australia, and Brazil.
Some evolve to a higher state, some regress asserts the Jaina theory, a movement that is driven by the karma.
Likewise, if the accused, unable to bear such tortures, admits to crimes which he has not committed, who, I ask you, has the responsibility for such an impiety?
To venerate a saint is to honour a person who has been identified as having a high degree of sanctity or holiness.
An etymological meaning of sophrosyne as "preservation of thoughtfulness" is proposed in Cratylus 411e.
The worst kind is desecration of the Blessed Sacrament, as it is the most important and most sacred item in Catholicism (far more than any relic or historical artifact whatsoever).
John 19:20 states that this was written in three languages – Hebrew, Latin, and Greek – and was put on the cross of Jesus.
This value, true love, is the aspiration and hope of all human beings and the manifestation of the best in human nature.
Bṛhatphala बृहत्फल or Vehapphala वेहप्फल (Vietnamese: Trời Quảng Quả; Chinese: 广果天; Tibetan: འབྲས་བུ་ཆེ་, Wylie: 'bras bu che; Thai: เวหัปปผลา or พรฺหตฺผลา – Devas "having great fruit".
In a bitheistic system, by contrast, where the two deities are not in conflict or opposition, one could be male and the other female (cf.
Śrutis has been variously described as a revelation through anubhava (direct experience), or of primordial origins realized by ancient Rishis.
35 Then he got up again and walked once back and forth in the house, and went up and stretched himself upon him.
Smith uses vervain to protect humans from vampires, in an extension of vervain's fabled magic-suppression powers against witches.
The Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius's Meditations details a philosophy of service and duty, describing how to find and preserve equanimity in the midst of conflict by following nature as a source of guidance and inspiration.
There is no formal canonization process in Hinduism, but over time many men and women have reached the status of saints among their followers and among Hindus in general.
It is a fundamental aspect of Islamic theology, and different Islamic schools (e.g., Ashʿarī, Māturīdī, and Salafī) have varying interpretations of ʿAqīda while agreeing on its foundational principles.
I do so with the burning desire that the message of God’s merciful love, proclaimed here through Saint Faustina, may be made known to all the peoples of the earth and fill their hearts with hope.
Ancient Greece Ancient Greek religion and its Roman equivalent have many figures who were born as humans but became gods, for example Hercules.
On the other hand, they are not to take the task of inspiring faith to the extent of hypocrisy or inappropriateness, for example, by taking on other professions apart from being a monastic, or by courting favours by giving items to the laypeople.
Nevertheless, there is no clear mention of legal punishments in the Quranic text regarding the apostasy.
Some prostitutes also viewed the action of sexual service and sexual pleasure as an act of devotion to the goddess of love, worshipping Aphrodite through an act rather than a physical dedication.
In that framework, adhikāra is seen as necessary so that a practitioner can obtain the prerequisite knowledge and states of mind necessary to properly absorb the more 'advanced' texts and gain the spiritual benefit thereof.
Brett Shults proposes that Pali texts may employ the Brahmanical motif of a group of three refuges, as found in Rig Veda 9.97.47, Rig Veda 6.46.9 and Chandogya Upanishad 2.22.3-4.
Pe (Greek Buto) was a Lower Egyptian town, not known for its Horus worship, but Ra had awarded the town to Horus after his eye was injured in the struggle for the throne of Egypt.
Within Jewish mysticism and folklore, particularly in Kabbalistic traditions, protective practices were also used to ward off these malevolent spirits.
(Conditions for formation of uniate orthodox groups.) Authority of the Ecumenical Councils for faith and life.
Some of these, notably at Naaran in the West Bank, have had the living figures removed, leaving inanimate symbols such as the Temple menorah intact.
But he proposes an ingenious method to tackle the question: Just as we can come to know the properties and operations of something through scientific demonstration, i.e.
Reception The impact of Hartley's concept was analysed for English literature, and influences can be found above all in Samuel Coleridge and William Wordsworth, e.g.
When the Krotonians, spurred by Madame Blavatsky, found Hollywood suffocating their peace-filled theosophies, they decided to move to Ojai California and that is where they have been ever since.
While his more traditional work was well received, two of his works from the campaign generated considerable controversy.
History Nuclear Orthodoxy was first formulated in the aftermath of the dissolution of the Soviet Union among Eurasianist political circles.
They sometimes hurl stones at women who do not dress according to their strict dress code and have even broken into a woman's house and beat her up, because they did not approve of her behavior.
Moral goodness is a necessary condition of holiness, even though moral goodness alone does not suffice to make a person holy.
The belt dates from circa 1530 and is made of cotton, white and red snail shells, black seeds, pearls, glass, and obsidian.
The genre of lives of the saints was introduced in the Slavic world in the Bulgarian Empire in the late 9th and early 10th century, where the first original hagiographies were produced on Cyril and Methodius, Clement of Ohrid and Naum of Preslav.
The Fates, primary antagonists of season five of the superhero television series Legends of Tomorrow The Fates/Moirai, referenced in Edward P.
Lincoln's maxim and philosophy were, 'What is to be, will be, and no prayers of ours can arrest the decree.' He never joined any church.
The term is used in the Indonesian and Malaysian languages with very similar meanings and spellings, i.e.
They cite the billions of dollars in arms sales to Venezuela and the construction of Iranian nuclear facilities as well as the rejection of added sanctions on Iran.
Polkinghorne argues that an apparently simple event like boiling water, where a small quantity of liquid changes into a large quantity of steam (a phase transition) would seem miraculous to someone who had not seen it every day.
His suggested explanation, however, did not deal with the question of why such a belief became central to the religion.
In the twentieth century, theologians such as Paul Tillich described God as the "ground of being" rather than a being among others, influencing post-theistic and existential theology.
The fourth section sets forth the Pope as the supreme judge in matters of faith and morals, though making the concessions that the Pope may err in questions of fact known by ordinary human knowledge and when he speaks as a mere unofficial theologian.
Sacred mysteries may be either: Religious beliefs, rituals or practices which are kept secret from the uninitiated.
Names Atonement and atoning both derive from the verb atone, from the Middle English attone or atoon (meaning "agreed" or "at one").
Okada's teaching is represented by a number of his works, such as Foundation of Paradise and Johrei: Divine Light of Salvation, which has been edited and translated by the Society of Johrei, an offshoot of COWM.
"The Commonitory of Vincent of Lérins, for the antiquity and universality of the catholic faith against the profane novelties of all heresies".
Judaism The first mention of the fear of God in the Hebrew Bible is in Genesis 22:12, where Abraham is commended for putting his trust in God.
In rejecting Kamwana, his former followers referred to Chilembwe as American, and an African minister at Blantyre Mission regarded his views on race as American, not a description with millennial significance.
The modern formulation was popularized by Thomas à Kempis' devotional book The Imitation of Christ written in early 15th century.
Etymology The term orthopraxy comes from the Greek orthos, meaning "straight", and praxis, meaning "action".
Almost in the Index In 1590, Pope Sixtus V had, of his own initiative, placed the first volume on a new edition of the Index Librorum Prohibitorum for denying that the pope had direct temporal authority over the whole world.
Divine law is any body of law that is perceived as deriving from a transcendent source, such as the will of God or gods – in contrast to man-made law or to secular law.
The phoenix, identified as a controller of winds, was called "Messenger of Di" (史風) and received its own sacrifices.
In parapsychology and Spiritualism, an apport is the alleged paranormal transference of an article from one place to another, or an appearance of an article from an unknown source that is often associated with poltergeist activity or séances.
Content The Cave of Treasures belongs to the genre of "rewritten Bible" that recounts biblical history from the creation of the world to the life of Christ within a different framework; in this case, a Syriac one.
This consequently works in a manner that promotes future loyalty of the vassal since the suzerain had previously done favors for them.
In 2021, the Wauwatosa building was listed as among the five most haunted places in Wisconsin by Milwaukee Magazine.
The Je Khenpo is also responsible for many important liturgical and religious duties across the country.
As spiritual and mystic traditions developed, the Jewish concept of the soul underwent a number of changes.
He believed that the "thousand-year kingdom" began with the birth of Christ, but that the thousand years should not be understood literally.
Gallery Biblical scenes INRI examples See also Christ the King Ichthys Names and titles of Jesus in the New Testament Titulus Crucis References Notes Citations === Sources ===
The most important site is located in Malhargadh village in Guna district where Taran Svami spent his final years and where his last rites were performed.
Imperial Rome and Christian Triumph: Oxford History of Early Non-Pauline Christianity 1998 ISBN 0-19-284201-3 Gaus, Andy.
The council did, however, retain the prohibitions on eating blood or meat containing blood, and meat of animals that were strangled, and on fornication and idolatry, sometimes referred to as the Apostolic Decree.
When the rime and the blowing heat met, the liquid melted and dropped, and this mixture formed the primordial being Ymir, the ancestor of all jötnar.
The recurrence of the nundinae was also considered a dies festus and as such nefas by some Roman scholars as Julius Caesar and Cornelius Labeo, because on it the flaminica dialis offered the sacrifice of a goat to Jupiter in the Regia.
Since we agree in rejecting without reservation the teaching of Eutyches as well as of Nestorius, the acceptance or non-acceptance of the Council of Chalcedon does not entail the acceptance of either heresy.
Extraordinary means are those "which cannot be obtained or used without excessive expense, pain, or other inconvenience, or which, if used, would not offer a reasonable hope of benefit." They involve a disproportionately great burden on the patient or community.
According to Hayyim ben Joseph Vital, women could not become dybbuks because their souls did not participate in gilgul.
The conversation begins when two British students ask Neuburg about a version of the story in which Crowley turned him into a zebra and sold him to a zoo.
Rizal meant by "blind faith" was, since it was impossible to comprehend God as He was plus supra, he could have only hinged his belief on the fact that "God was God." As such, he did not deny nor did he accept the religious explanations of the mortals around him.
Bede's commentary (written around 705) was the most important commentary since Ticonius and played a leading role until the time of Joachim of Fiore (d.
In Introvigne's opinion, the most significant portraits of the mahatmas "in Theosophical history" were painted by Schmiechen.
For these reasons the scarab was seen as a symbol of this heavenly cycle and of the idea of rebirth or regeneration.
This development from the relative or habitual to the absolute is evident in the terms ethics and morality as well, both being derived from terms for "regional custom", Greek ἦθος and Latin mores, respectively (see also siðr).
The identification of the Roman Catholic Church with the Whore of Babylon is kept in the Scofield Reference Bible (whose 1917 edition identified "ecclesiastical Babylon" with "apostate Christendom headed by the Papacy").
Museum no.: CBS 08322 Archived 2011-09-28 at the Wayback Machine Barton, George Aaron., Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions, Yale University Press, 1918.
Other uses The term 'body of light' is also used in Tibetan Buddhism, particularly in the Dzogchen and Mahamudra traditions.
People from neighbouring villages were invited to help celebrate this ritual, in which men in the village then take shots at the cub with blunted ceremonial arrows, until the time came for it to be slaughtered.
At the time of its establishment, it was the first school dedicated to the teaching of Spiritualism, and as of 2025, it remains the only such institution in the world.
A cake of light contains flour, honey, Abramelin oil, olive oil, beeswing, and bodily fluids such as semen, menstrual blood, vaginal fluids, or a mix thereof.
Hence Pope Paul VI's papal encyclical of 3 September 1965 on the Eucharist was titled, from its opening words, Mysterium fidei.
Each sephira and path is assigned various ideas, such as gods, cards of the Tarot, astrological planets and signs, elements, and so forth.
Yantra In esoteric traditions such as tantra, particularly the Sri Chakra tradition, the main icon (yantra) has nine interlocking triangles.
Other contextual meanings of the term include "race, caste, family, fertility symbol, grain or seed".
One study found that praying for a friend or thinking positive thoughts about that person every day for four weeks increases the chances of forgiving that friend or partner, which leads to a better relationship.
Burke's religious thought was grounded in his belief that religion is the foundation of civil society.
Noll writes, "At least early on, Lincoln was probably also a Universalist who believed in the eventual salvation of all people." Lincoln was often perplexed by the attacks on his character by way of his religious choices.
Critics argue that forgiveness interventions may increase negative affect because they try to inhibit the person's feelings towards the offender.
Canonization The Orthodox belief is that God reveals saints through answered prayers and other miracles.
Similarly to many religions, the Ainu also gave prayers and offerings to their ancestors in the spirit world or afterlife.
Though kangaroo meat was once unpopular with modern Australians, it has become a lot more popular in recent years due to its reputation as a low-fat and low-emission meat, and can be found in most supermarkets.
In an interview conducted in September 1980, three months before his death, Lennon told Playboy journalist David Sheff: "People always got the image I was an anti-Christ or antireligion.
They argue that the conditional promise of 1 Kings 9:4–7 seems to undercut this unconditional covenant.
§ Placenta origins) that the concept of the supernatural fylgja cannot be completely dissociated from this secondary meaning; in fact, there may well be a connection to the hamr, referring to the skin used by shapeshifters (hamramr, cf.
In contrast to supersessionism, Latter Day Saints do not dispute the "chosen" status of the Jewish people.
In contrast, Calvin believes that the practice of praying to saints is a demonstration of "distrust, because they are either not contented with Christ as an intercessor or have altogether robbed him of this honour".
'Systematic theology', on the other hand, is broader in compass than dogmatics, if the latter is taken to be concerned with teaching which has acquired ecclesial definition and approval, since systematic theology occupies itself more generally with Christian claims about reality.
Earlier excavation reports predominantly referenced magnetic north, according to current Hokkaido data.
Nagendranath Bhaduri – Bhaduri Mahasaya served as an Acharya of the Baluhati branch of the Adi Brahmo Samaj.
Ahmad al-Tayyib, the Grand Imam of al-Azhar, highly praised the book by saying that it has several words that deserve to be written in gold water.
Within Thelema, Ra-Hoor-Khuit is called 'Lord of the Aeon' (which began in 1904 according to Thelemic doctrine), and 'The Crowned and Conquering Child'.
Hart continues to say that, in other funerary papyri, the pelican can predict safe travel for a dead person in the Underworld.
Randhir Singh, founder of the AKJ, stated: Without fully knowing the Rehat [practice] of a Gursikh, another Gursikh should not accept food from their hands.
Nyelvrokonaink kultúrája és hagyományai [The book title means: “Uralic peoples / Culture and traditions of our linguistic relatives”; the chapter title means “The belief system of Uralic peoples and the shamanism”] (in Hungarian).
Other examples include Makoto Yukimura's Vinland Saga, a manga featuring the Viking invasion and rule of England, where the character Askeladd, a Norwegian-Welsh half-blood, recounts the tale of his ancestor King Artorius and his glorious return from Avalon to save Britannia.
The English translations below are from Gelbert (2011), while the Mandaic transliterations are derived from Gelbert (2011, 2021).
Participants were led to believe they were assisting in an unrelated experiment in which they had to inflict electric shocks on another person.
On the other hand, Sun Ho, a Singaporean Christian pastor and former singer, praised Madonna's music contribution in the field of dance music in 2006.
Mendenhall, covenants were originally established as legal customs and then later were replicated in the field of religion.
Rabbi Pini Dunner discusses that humility is to place others first; it is to appreciate others' worth as important.
It has been pointed out that "The laws governing such matters as hospitality, the rights of the heads of households, marriage, blood-feuds and payment of damages find precise echoes in Vedic India and ancient Greece and Rome".
Biblical and rabbinic sources tend to emphasize covenantal and ethical interpretations of the holiness of the People of Israel.
In times past, cruel practices were commonly used by legitimate governments to maintain law and order, often without protest from the Pastors of the Church, who themselves adopted in their own tribunals the prescriptions of Roman law concerning torture.
The Uruguayan diplomatic representative studied at the Colegio y Liceo del Sagrado Corazón (Padres Jesuitas) in Montevideo and also attended the Instituto de Estudios Humanísticos y Clásicos de la Compañía de Jesús.
See also Sacred trees and groves in Germanic paganism and mythology Ten realms Notes and citations == References ==
Shrines and feast days, when authorized by the church, are typical signs of approval since they are part of devotion to private revelation.
Christians also argue that the names Zerubbabel and Shealtiel in the two lineages have different parents and children and therefore are just common names that do not refer to the same people.
He comes to desire Sauron's power for himself, so he betrays the Istari and tries to take over Middle-earth by force, creating an army in his fastness of Isengard.
Public religion in both Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome involved a complex interplay between civic life and sacred presence.
Ceremonies mainly consist of making libations of sake, saying prayers, and offering willow sticks with wooden shavings attached to them.
At the weigh-in before the first Ali-Liston fight, Ali had shouted: "It is prophesied that I should win!
It refers to an apostate false queen, a former "bride" who has been unfaithful and who, even though she has been divorced and cast out because of unfaithfulness, continues to falsely claim to be the "queen" of the spiritual realm.
The Greek Septuagint and some later Christian translations, following the application of Isaiah 7 in Matthew 1, use the word "virgin".
Several chapters and a photograph in the book reference Leila Waddell, whom Crowley called Laylah, and who, as Crowley's influential Scarlet Woman, acted as his muse during the writing process of this volume.
Reuss died in 1923 without naming a successor, and Crowley was subsequently elected and ratified as Outer Head of the Order in a Conference of Grand Masters in 1925.
Christian religion and ethics are the primary topic of the sermons with emphasis on marriage, repentance, hardening the heart, charity, pride, wisdom, and compassion.
Moroni, the last prophet of the book, wrote about love: But charity is the pure love of Christ, and it endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with him.
It is similar to the concepts of zhōngyōng (中庸) of Chinese Confucianism and sattva (सत्त्व) of Indian thought.
Until 1952, it was wrongly labeled as an African fetish, but scholars have confirmed that it is Taíno from the early 16th century and exhibits elements of Caribbean, European, and African artistic influences.
34 Then he went up and lay on the child, putting his mouth on his mouth, his eyes on his eyes, and his hands on his hands.
Christianity The Mosaic covenant or Law of Moses, which Christians generally call the "Old Covenant" in contrast to the New Covenant, has played an important role in the shaping of Christianity.
However, opponents of the anthropic argument argue that it is flawed and does not necessarily prove the existence of God.
Local Catholics counter-protested in support of the statue by praying the rosary in front of the statue.
Evidence indicates he occasionally faked signatures as a way to gain authority from a "guide from the past"; however, these signatures were dated beyond the lifetimes of the deceased.
The Panthoibi Naheron (ꯄꯥꯟꯊꯣꯏꯕꯤ ꯅꯥꯍꯦꯔꯣꯟ), also known as the Panthoibi Naheiron (ꯄꯥꯟꯊꯣꯏꯕꯤ ꯅꯥꯍꯩꯔꯣꯟ), or the Panthoibi Naherol (ꯄꯥꯟꯊꯣꯏꯕꯤ ꯅꯥꯍꯦꯔꯣꯜ), or the Panthoibi Naheirol (ꯄꯥꯟꯊꯣꯏꯕꯤ ꯅꯥꯍꯩꯔꯣꯜ) (transl.
Contrary to misconceptions, meekness is not synonymous with weakness; rather, it embodies the gentleness of the strong, who exercise control over their strength.
Peters, divine laws are typically perceived as superior to man-made laws, sometimes due to an assumption that their source has resources beyond human knowledge and human reason.
At the same time, remission of the temporal punishment for the pilgrims' sins is granted, known as an indulgence.
See also Apophatic theology Conceptions of God Fideism Ietsism Ineffability Münchhausen trilemma Mysticism Newton's flaming laser sword Problem of religious language Thought-terminating cliché Eliminative materialism References Bibliography == External links ==
The Middle Persian term engendered the better-attested Arabic زنديق zindiq, with the same semantic field but related to Islam rather than Zoroastrianism.
Al-T̲h̲aʿlabī, however, related, closely following the Gospel of John: "Lazarus [Al-ʿĀzir] died, his sister sent to inform Jesus, Jesus came three (in the Gospel, four) days after his death, went with his sister to the tomb in the rock and caused Lazarus to arise; children were born to him".
Upon the return of Jesus Christ, all people will be resurrected, the righteous in a first resurrection and the unrighteous in a second, later resurrection.
Mannhardt extensively studied mostly representations of spirits associated with the harvest and the broader category, spirits of vegetation, representing the annual cycle of dying and resurrecting vegetation.
Asclepius was "the one who leads and controls all things, the savior of the whole world, and the guardian of mortals." Helen of Troy was worshiped as a heroine in several parts of the ancient world during the early historical epoch.
The wider area around Jerusalem, or the Holy Land, is referred to in Arabic and in Islamic sources as al ard al-muqaddasa (also Bilād al-Muqaddasa), as it is full of shrines and connections to prophets and saints.
"Evil has accumulated for innumerable generations through the inheritance of sins", and heaven has sent the Celestial Master to save humanity.
Much more the behavior of beings with free will, then they disobey God's orders, harming others or putting themselves over God or others, is considered to be evil.
Animal analogues The classical Greek word used to translate meekness was also that for a horse that had been tamed and bridled.
It means "hearing, listening", a call to "listen to a speech", any form of communication that is aggregate of sounds (news, report, rumour, noise, hearsay).
This ritual caused injury to bystanders, and to Pope Paul VI himself while striking down the door, so for the Great Jubilee of 2000, Pope John Paul II simplified the rite considerably.
The severity of the transgression was measured by three different factors and rated on a scale of severity.
Despite the controversy surrounding some of his work, Vereshchagin continued painting battles and their aftermaths until his death during the Russo-Japanese War.
Elysium is labeled a land for the blessed, whereas those who committed horrible deeds were sent to the deepest part of the underworld, Tartarus.
Meditation can train the mind to be sensitive and flexible, which results in developing and maintaining a state of composure, peace, and balance.
Leadbeater (Theosophist), suggesting that for a living human to experience the spirit world is a blissful, meaningful and life-changing experience.
The Doctrine of Tenrikyo, which systematically summarizes Tenrikyo's beliefs and practices, was published in 1949.
Rousseau's romantic fallacy that it is society which corrupts man, not man who corrupts society, places a flattering gauze between ourselves and reality.
The Baháʼí Faith continues a tradition found in Islam of not using depictions in art of people considered a Manifestation of God.
Judaism In Hebrew, Ahava is the most Commonly used term for both interpersonal love of family and love of God.
The Formula of Concord rejects antinomianism in the fifth article, On the Law and the Gospel and in the sixth article, On the Third Use of the Law.
One of the better-known uses of this motif is by Mike Barr and Brian Bolland, who has Arthur and his knights returning in the year 3000 to save the Earth from an alien invasion in the comic book series Camelot 3000 (1982–85).
Millenarian movements The Andean Taki Unquy movement of the 1560s and 1570s, opposing the diseases arriving with the Spanish conquerors.
They are found in Cuba, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, and other Caribbean islands.
Lewis references the term in many of his writings, but specifically describes it in his book The Problem of Pain and states that fear of the numinous is not a fear that one feels for a tiger, or even a ghost.
For this reason the Magician will anoint first the top of his head before proceeding to consecrate the lower centres in their turn (...) It is the pure light translated into terms of desire.
This was translated by George Aaron Barton in 1918 and first published as "Sumerian religious texts" in Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions, number two, entitled "An Old Babylonian Oracle".
This "hierarchy of spiritual leaders" she calls the "Masters of the Wisdom," and they all report to and work with Christ, Jesus of Nazareth.
However, the redemption of man is not considered to have taken place only in the past, but continues to this day through theosis.
Barton suggests Enlil then appears and takes Enki's axe, presumably to chop cedars for the building he proceeds to guard.
Historian Michael Bronski says that the Friend would not have been called transgender or transvestite "by the standards and the vocabulary" of the time, but has called the Friend a "transgender evangelist".
Booth," and according to Michael Brooke of BFI Screenonline, "combines elements of the previous year's The Unfortunate Policeman with a special effects sequence.
The name of Lake Manitoba (for which the Canadian province of Manitoba is named) derives from the area called manitou-wapow, or "strait of the Manitou" in Cree or Ojibwe, referring to the strange sound of waves crashing against rocks near the Narrows of the lake.
Other authorities also permit a king to initiate a war, since a king is the supreme commander of the army.
The temple rituals are as follows: The follower enters the temple and bows to the altar as the sign of respect then recites three verses drawn from Taran Svami's texts known as Tatva Patha or Tatva Mangal in front of the altar.
–Targum Onkelos Man as nephesh The LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground[adamah], and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life[nishmat ḥayim]; and man became a living soul[lenephesh ayyah].
The messiah complex is a mental state in which a person believes they are a messiah or prophet and will save or redeem people in a religious endeavour.
The first 25 lines were published by Van Dijk in 1965 but a translation of the entire text has still not been made.1 The large surface of the earth introduced herself; then she has embellished herself as with a bardul-garment.
Concepts of universal atonement can transcend all religions, as in unlimited atonement, the doctrine that the atonement is unlimited in extent, and universal reconciliation, the doctrine that all will eventually come to salvation.
Psychiatrist Thomas Szasz wrote in The Second Sin (1973): "If you talk to God, you are praying; if God talks to you, you have schizophrenia.
See also Lazarus of Bethany, patron saint archive Corpse decomposition Lazarus Saturday Ministry of Jesus Panagia Alexiotissa, Patras Seven signs in the Gospel of John Category:Paintings of the Resurrection of Lazarus Notes References == External links ==
Housman a writer in "a blasphemous, antinomian, 'cynical' strain", meaning defiant of arbitrary societal rules.
By the time of Cicero, sacrilege had adopted a more expansive meaning, including verbal offences against religion and the undignified treatment of sacred objects.
Book 8 Book 8 (10 in the Al-Saadi edition) deals briefly with creation and evil, and contains Manda ḏ-Hayyi's warnings against Ruha.
The yoni iconography is typically represented in the form of a horizontally placed round or square base with a lipped edge and an opening in the center usually with a cylindrical lingam.
In the New Testament, the Greek word traditionally translated "soul" (ψυχή) "psyche", has substantially the same meaning as the Hebrew, without reference to an immortal soul.
Following his completion of the painting, Vereshchagin dedicated his work "to all great conquerors, past, present and to come".
See also Common law Customary law Hadith Jurisprudence Revelation Uncodified constitution Citations and notes References Finnegan, Ruth H., A Note on Oral Tradition and Historical Evidence, in History and Theory 10 (1970), 195–201.
For instance, the Babylonian creation story from 1250 BCE follows the same blueprint as virtually every story of redemptive violence put forward today.
A female police assistant physically examined Rothe and discovered 157 flowers as well as oranges and lemons hidden in her petticoat.
Etymology The word saint derives from the Latin sanctus, meaning "holy" or "consecrated", and entered English through Old French seint and Middle English saint, retaining its meaning as a holy person and historically used to refer to individuals regarded as holy.
Expulsion In traditional Jewish communities, the concept of the dybbuk served as a socially acceptable way of expressing unacceptable urges, including sexual ones.
These translations, in their attempt to reconcile and merge the two Syriac recensions, represent different interpretive traditions of the same work.
Athenaeus also alludes to the idea that many of Aphrodite’s temples and sanctuaries were occupied by temple prostitutes.
Rationalist Descartes uses the physiological term "animal spirits" to refer to corpuscles composed of the "most vivid and subtle" parts of the blood, which move the body as they circulate from brain to muscle (Discours de la méthode, V) (1637).
Salvation therefore is described as the realization that all finite reality is essentially dependent on the Supreme.
They recommend a learned and respected monk ordained in accordance with the Druk-lu who possesses the nine qualities of a spiritual master, and is accomplished in ked-dzog (spiritual development and completion), to the King of Bhutan.
271, same edition): "Once at Jerusalem, she was held back from entering the church with the other pilgrims by an invisible and irresistible force.
From the anthroposophy teachings of Rudolf Steiner, "Pneumatosophy" (wisdom of the spirit) can be seen as part of his teachings on spiritual science and approaches the human spirit in terms of truth and error and the meaning and the effects of imagination, intuition, and inspiration.
Mahayana Buddhism has formal liturgical practices for venerating saints, along with very specific levels of sainthood.
Takashima Ken-ichi and Li Fa further illustrated it through two sentences in which a single ritualized process was used to appease both "winds" and locusts.
The Bible was gifted to President Lincoln by the Citizens Volunteer Hospital of Philadelphia on June 16, 1864.
Symbols, amulets and omens Insects have often been taken to represent qualities, for good or ill, and accordingly have been used as amulets to ward off evil, or as omens that predict forthcoming events.
Their guilt is derived not from a feeling of rejection by deity, but by a self-rejection as they become aware of the gulf which separates them from the ideals of the Buddha.
Consumption of any sort of rodent, or material originating from rodents, is forbidden by Judaism and Islam.
According to the Manifesto, OSOGD teaches "a progressively tiered system of spiritual development designed to invoke the Higher or Divine Genius latent in every human being".
Latria, hyperdulia, protodulia and dulia Christian theologians have long adopted the terms latria for the type of worship due to God alone, and dulia and proskynesis for the veneration given to angels, saints, relics and icons.
Monist approaches avoid the objections to dualism by rejecting the idea that mind and body are fundamentally distinct.
The Denkard, a 9th-11th century work of Zoroastrian tradition, attributes this systemization of doctrine—in which certain beliefs and traditions were seen as definite while others were considered unacceptable—to an initiative by Tansar, high priest under Ardashir I, the founder of the dynasty.
In his Lectures on the History of Philosophy, Hegel continues: “in recent times no other philosophy has been so much offended against as this [sc.
Arkansas The epistemic conception of the miraculous does not agree with the definition given in the famous McLean v.
Argument from reason Philosophers and scientists including Victor Reppert, William Hasker, and Alvin Plantinga have expanded on the "Argument from reason" and credit Lewis with first bringing the argument to light in Miracles.
On education Johnson responds to Jenyns's final argument, that the ends justify the means when it comes to keeping the poor uneducated, by saying: I am always afraid of determining on the side of envy or cruelty.
He further criticized Aristotle's idea whereby every unique soul requires the existence of a unique source, in this case the heart.
It is an official publication for Babes of the Abyss, but is recommended even to beginners as highly suggestive." The book consists of 93 chapters, each of which consists of one page of text.
While some may think of equanimity as dry neutrality or cool aloofness, mature equanimity produces a radiance and warmth of being.
Mythical theology is practiced by story-tellers, especially poets, based on narratives (mythoi) pertaining to divine matters.
The punishment for apostasy includes state enforced annulment of his or her marriage, seizure of the person's children and property with automatic assignment to guardians and heirs, and death for the apostate.
Is there any healer who can cure me?" Namungbi suggests the name of Wangbaren Khana Chaoba (Wangpulen), the water god of the southern valley.
He attended Colegio y Liceo del Sagrado Corazón (Jesuits) for his secondary education, later joining the Novitiate of the Society of Jesus in Córdoba, Argentina, where he studied literature and humanities at the Institute of Letters and Classical Humanities.
Some Hindu saints are given god-like status, being seen as incarnations of Vishnu, Shiva, and other aspects of God, sometimes many years after their deaths.
Myths of the Creation of Man and the Origin of Death in Africa: a Study in Igbo Traditional Culture and Other African Cultures.
Choronzon is deemed to be held in check by the power of the goddess Babalon, inhabitant of Binah, the third sephirah of the Tree of Life.
The "ethereal horse" in the painting, which may be Pegasus, rejecting the riders who attempt to reach the stars, again signals the cessation of the myth.
This conception implied, as in the biblical parable Lazarus and Dives, that there is considered a greater distance between good and bad spirits than between the dead and the living.
In ancient Roman religion and myth, the Parcae (singular: Parca) were the female personifications of destiny who directed the lives (and deaths) of humans and gods.
When in Genesis 1:26 God says "Let us make man", the Hebrew word used is adam; in this form it is a generic noun, "mankind", and does not imply that this creation is male.
In developed animism the transformation of a demon or god leads to its anthropomorphism, humanization.
Holy Although the English language terms sacred and holy are similar in meaning, and they are sometimes used interchangeably, they carry subtle differences.
People subscribing to popular monotheistic religions for instance, might fear Hell and divine judgment, or submit to God's omnipotence.
He also described this attainment as a possible and in fact a necessary step for all who truly followed his path.
Christianity Meekness, as understood in the Christian perspective, finds its embodiment in the actions and teachings of Jesus Christ.
This section also includes an "Interlude", which is a humorous exposition on the magical interpretations of popular nursery rhymes, such as Old Mother Hubbard and Little Bo Peep.
We have often emphasized that the human being does not only consist of the visible parts that can be seen with the eye, but that the human being also consists of invisible, supersensible members.
Beginning in the late 19th century, the seven rays appeared in a modified and elaborated form in the teachings of Theosophy, first presented by Helena Blavatsky.
The former found himself the object of worship by inhabitants of the island of Tanna; in an example of "mutual mythmaking", the British government encouraged such adulation, even going so far as to send autographed portraits to the prince's acolytes.
As a result, some ages are filled with prosperity and peace due to common goodness, whereas other eras are filled with suffering, dishonesty and short lifespans.
The Whore's apocalyptic downfall is prophesied to take place in the hands of the image of the beast with seven heads and ten horns.
Hartley calls this reorienting transformation the “annihilation of self.” This “annihilation” is not quasi-mystical obliteration; rather, it is a reorientation toward, or discovery of, a higher self of sympathy, theopathy, and the moral sense.
He said, "But you have printed it in the plainest language." I said that I could not have done so because I did not know it.
This phrase appears in the Qur'an a number of times, where it is thought to refer in some cases to the angel Gabriel.
Civil in the 1960s from 24 manuscripts but it is currently the least studied of the disputation poems and a full translation has not yet been published.
The Ambrosian Bible or Ambrosian Tanakh of 1236 by Jacob ben Samuel and Joseph ben Kalonymus is one of the earliest Ashkenazic illuminated manuscripts and biblical codices.
But after a night in prayer and experience of a locution from the figure of Christ crucified, he decided to stay on.
Probabilists reply to this argument that liberty is always in possession, since law and obligation presuppose liberty in the subject.
In Lezgin, the terms Аллагьа гайитIа (Allaha ghayita) and ин шаа Аллагь (inshallah) are widely used by Lezgins, with the meaning "hopefully" or "if God wills".
Thus, in the year 1516, Reuchlin's diagram came to appear on the cover of the Paolo Riccio's Latin translation of Joseph ben Abraham Gikatilla's Gates of Light.
She claimed that in Tibet, she was taught an ancient, unknown language known as Senzar, and translated a number of ancient texts written in this language that were preserved by the monks of a monastery; she stated that she was, however, not permitted entry into the monastery itself.
Augustine, the virtue's meaning as temperance or "proper mixture" became the dominant view in subsequent Western European thought.
Plague When the second plague pandemic hit Rome again in 1522, the local authorities banned processions so as to stop the disease spreading.
The story begins at 2 Kings 4:8, and is demarcated from the previous story by Elisha's arrival in Shunem, and by a change in heroine — from the widow of the son of the prophets (4:1-7) to the rich woman of Shunem.
An influential substance dualism was formulated by René Descartes, who argued that bodies are extended things, while minds are thinking things.
The prologue is largely lost, although it appears that at some point during it, silver and copper bring Enlil offerings.
For many years, Wahhabi clerics opposed the establishment of a television service in Saudi Arabia, as they believed it immoral to produce images of humans.
The King James version systematically translates the word as "sodomites", while the Revised Standard version renders it, "male cult prostitutes".
Fitzmyer disputes the claim that the Apostolic Decree is based on the seven Noahide laws (Gen 9), and instead proposes Lev 17–18 as the basis for it.
As David Greene points out, Johnson's moral writings contain no "predetermined and authorized pattern of 'good behavior,'" although they do emphasize certain kinds of conduct.
The tablet is 3.2 inches (8.1 cm) by 2.6 inches (6.6 cm) by 0.85 inches (2.2 cm) at its thickest point.
Atenism & Amenhotep III cult An important note about Akhenaten's self-deification program is that it was theologically connected to Amenhotep III's during-lifetime deification.
This is allegedly much like a mental construct from which the therapist may attempt to move the spirit into a higher consciousness.
A few years later, from February 11 to July 16, 1858, the Blessed Virgin Mary was pleased, as a new favor, to manifest herself in the territory of the Pyrenees to a pious and pure child of a poor, hardworking, Christian family.
Afterward, the world will resurface anew and fertile, the surviving and returning gods will meet, and mankind will be repopulated by Líf and Lífþrasir, who will emerge from Yggdrasil.
See also Esoteric Christianity Mysticism Psychosophy Theosophy Resources http://www.doyletics.com/arj/psychbsp.htm
The parts that describe the lovers’ meeting and the writer’s final remarks are especially touching and well-written.
The experiment unexpectedly found that most could be led to inflict the electric shocks, including shocks that would have been fatal if they had been real.
There has been a continuous debate over oral versus written transmission, with the focus on the perceived higher reliability of written evidence, primarily based on the "linear world of academia" where only written down records are accepted.
Environment The Mosques and Schools in Jordan are nearing 100% powered by renewable energy, using the energy for activities such as lights and heating water.
During the Great Depression, the school suffered from both the economic downturn as well as a broader disinterest in Spiritualism.
A vice is a practice, behaviour, habit or item generally considered morally wrong in the associated society.
It is also stated that true love for other humans occurs when people see the beauty of God in other people's souls.
In Boyer's view, belief in supernatural entities spreads and becomes culturally fixed because of their memorability.
The protest and counter-protest lasted nearly three hours and was mostly peaceful until some clashes broke out toward the end, instigated by the anti-Catholic protestors.
This, along with other inconsistencies in the manuscript, has led to speculation that Crowley embroidered the event to support his own belief system.
Koot Hoomi was described as having spent time in London and Leipzig, being fluent in both English and French, and like Morya was a vegetarian.
For all uses and meanings of psyche/ψυχἠ, see Joseph Henry Thayer, A Greek-English Lexicon of the New Testament.
A great variety of these plants, from the majestic Indian lotus, down to the marsh-lotus (bird’s foot trefoil) and the Grecian “Dioscoridis”, is eaten at Crete and other islands.
Oceania In Oceania, the most common myth is that originally people had the power to rejuvenate themselves by shedding their skin like a snake.
During these consultation ceremonies, images of the zemi could be painted or tattooed on the body of a priest, who was known as a Bohuti or Buhuithu.
Aside from Di, some other gods also featured powers over winds, such as Shè (Spirit of the Land), Fāng (Spirit of the Four Quarters), Wū (Shaman), and Yī Shì (Yi Yin's spouse).
All a human has to do to use these emanations is to know basic moral law, what their body and/or psyche can and cannot handle, and listen.
This is not to say that Johnson was passive in his religious observance; instead, he was an 18th-century evangelical, which, as he defines in his Dictionary, means "Agreeable to gospel; consonant to the Christian law contained in the holy gospel".
For instance, Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church hagiographies in the Ge'ez language are known as gadl (Saint's Life).
Nekhen (Greek Hierakonpolis) was the Upper Egyptian centre of the worship of the god Horus, whose successors the Egyptian pharaohs were thought to be.
The same year, Patriarch Kirill of Moscow visited the city of Sarov, home to the All-Russian Scientific Research Institute of Experimental Physics and birthplace of Saint Seraphim of Sarov, where he said that Russia's nuclear weapons programme was the will of God.
A person born to a Muslim parent who later rejects Islam is called a murtad fitri, and a person who converted to Islam and later rejects the religion is called a murtad milli.
It became ubiquitous on headstones in the 19th century, and is widely used today when mentioning someone's death.
Conspiracy theories In December 2024, viral posts on Instagram, TikTok, Reddit, and Facebook variously claiming falsely that the pope would be opening "spiritual portals" or "sacred portals" in a "never-before-performed" ritual as part of the 2025 Jubilee celebrations.
Early views Burke's early essays "Religion of No Efficacy Considered as a State Engine" and "Religion" criticize contemporary efforts to reduce religion to a social and political instrument.
This ensured an impeccable textual transmission superior to the classical texts of other cultures; it is, in fact, something like a tape-recording....
Daoist texts The body of myths surrounding Li Hong took shape in Chinese literature during the Han dynasty.
These derived respectively from Greek and Near Eastern pagan religions, from Ancient Greek philosophy, and from the Jewish tradition and the Old Testament.
Shinto mythology distinguishes several kinds of kami, those reputedly "celestial" (amatsu-kami) like Amaterasu Omikami, and those qualified as "terrestrial" (kunitsu-kami) like Okuninushi no Mikoto.
Ceremonial magic In the mid-nineteenth century the French occultist Éliphas Lévi introduced the term 'astral light' in his Dogme et rituel de la haute magie (1856), and wrote of it as a factor he considered of key importance to magic, alongside the power of will and the doctrine of correspondences.
The picture depicts the Annunciation by the Archangel Gabriel to the Virgin Mary that she will bear the Son of God (Luke 1:26-38).
Matsya Purana, a Hindu text, has a Sanskrit language shloka (hymn), which explains the importance of reverence of ecology.
Dating and historical context Very little is known about the date or historical context in which Bhāruci was writing, but P.
Material things imitate the Forms to varying degrees but fail to fully embody them, for example, as degrees of justice without reaching perfect justice.
Phenomena of locutions are described in the lives of Christian saints such as Saint Mary of Egypt (5th century), who heard the locution from the Icon of Virgin Mary at the Holy Sepulchre or in case of the Saint Henry of Coquet Island (d.
In the Catholic tradition In the Catholic Church, traditionally the resurrected body is called the "glorified body", and retained four characteristics: incorruptibility, subtlety, impassibility, and agility.
Some Tenrikyo authorities suggest that two of these figures, Kunitokotachi-no-Mikoto and Omotari-no-Mikoto, represent tsukihi, or more precisely the duality tsuki-sama and hi-sama.
History Ancient times India Ancient Indian economic thought centred on the relationship between the concepts of happiness, ethics, and economic values, as connections between them led to the constituting description of human existence.
After being stabbed by the wife of the man who encountered the rabbi and invited him for a meal, the dybbuk walks out of their house and disappears into the snowy night.
Kane argues that it cannot have been written after 1050 CE because Vijñāneśvara, the author of the Mitākṣarā, a famous commentary on the Yājñavalkya Smṛti, mentions Bhāruci's commentary in his writing.
Little by little his body will become purified by the internal lustration of God; day by day his mortal frame, shedding its earthly elements, will become in very truth the Temple of the Holy Ghost.
It is hardly surprising in medieval context that a dream message should have prognosticating context, giving warning about the person's fate.
Depending on the karmic particles attached to a soul, Jain theology states a being is reborn in one of four gatis (states of existence), namely, heavenly being (deva), human (manushya), hell being (naraki) and animals and plants (triyancha).
Marcionism, an early Christian sect, held that the Old and New Testaments were the work of two opposing gods: both were First Principles, but of different religions.
The Cake of Light is the eucharistic host found within Thelema, the religion founded by English occult writer Aleister Crowley in 1904.
Some theologians have argued that Mary did not die, while others maintain that she experienced death not due to original sin, but to share in her son's own death and resurrection.
In 1954, Grant began the work of founding the New Isis Lodge, which became operational in 1955 when Grant announced his discovery of a "Sirius/Set current" in a new manifesto upon which the lodge would be based.
For example, in Matthew 23:34–37 and Luke 11:47–51, Jesus assigned all of the bloodguilt for the killing of the prophets and of the saints to the Pharisees of Jerusalem.
They treated the Apocalypse as an expansion of the "Little Apocalypse" of the Synoptic Gospels (Matthew 24; Mark 13; Luke 21).
When the thirty-first day arrives, take out the root in the middle of the night and dry it in an oven heated with branches of verbena; then wrap it up in a piece of a dead man's winding-sheet and carry it with you everywhere.
Mythical theology (theologica mythica) is one of three types of theology defined by the Roman scholar Marcus Terentius Varro (116–27 BC) in his lost work Antiquitates rerum humanarum et divinarum.
In various religions, certain individuals are believed to have entered heaven without dying first—through "ascension", "assumption", or "translation".
Canudos was a folk-Catholic commune in backcountry Bahia, Brazil, brutally crushed in 1897 by the new Brazilian Republic.
In many Yoga traditions, the virtue of equanimity can be one of the results attained through regular meditation, combined with regular practice of pranayama, asanas, and mental disciplines, which clear the mind and bring one inexorably toward a state of health and balance.
According to The Manifesto of the Open Source Order of the Golden Dawn, the Order had undertaken to revise the teachings of the original Victorian era Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn system to work more effectively in the 21st century.
-lu 'army'), whose original meaning may have been 'those serving the chief', by comparing with Balto-Slavic words that probably emerged from early linguistic contacts with Celtic speakers in Central-Eastern Europe: e.g.
Two other names for Jerusalem also derive from the Q-D-S root: Bayt al-Muqqadas ("the holy house") and Bayt al-Maqdis.
The first to raise an argument is Silver (though some find this reconstruction contentious), followed by a rebuttal by Copper, followed by a final response by Silver.
Philosophical and theological reflections Ancient philosophy developed increasingly abstract conceptions of divinity, seeking to understand the nature of the divine beyond anthropomorphic gods.
The vedas and Gita, the most sacred of hindu texts were written on the banks of Sarasvati river which were codified during the Kuru kingdom in present-day Haryana.
The Book of Acts says that after the ascension of Jesus, Stephen, the first Christian martyr, was killed when he was accused of speaking against the Second Temple and the Mosaic Law.
They too were said to spin destinies, although this may have been due to influence from Greek literature.
According to anthropologist of religion Winston Davis, Mahikari groups are comparable to the Church of World Messianity and follow basically the same healing ritual.
The Middle Kingdom, China, had a central mountain, Kunlun, known in Taoist literature as "the mountain at the middle of the world".
"Mythical theology" should be distinguished from the theologia mystica of Pseudo-Dionysius the Areopagite.
The four sub-spirits are the ara-mitama (荒御霊・荒御魂; Wild Spirit), the nigi-mitama (和御霊・和御魂; Gentle Spirit), the saki-mitama (幸御魂; Happy Spirit) and the kushi-mitama (奇御霊・奇御魂; Wondrous Spirit).
This seems to be the earliest mention of Saligrama as this temple was constructed prior to the birth of Adi Shankara.
According to some treatments, the Parcae seem to be more powerful than many, or perhaps even all, of the gods: "The power of the Parcae was great and extensive.
Each sefirah (singular of sefirot) represents a different aspect of the Divine, as well as aspects of human consciousness and existence.
Frankfort, Kingship and the Gods, University of Chicago Press 1978 László Török, The Kingdom of Kush: Handbook of the Napatan-Meroitic Civilization, Brill 1997 George Hart, The Routledge Dictionary Of Egyptian Gods And Goddesses, Routledge 2005 == Footnotes ==
Laying violent hands on a cleric used to incur an automatic excommunication according to the 1917 Code of Canon Law.
Presiding over successive falls The evil power of the Dark Lords brings about successive falls in the history of Middle-earth, reflecting the biblical pattern in which man is cast out of the original paradise into the ordinary world, never to return.
Further, one should not eat food made by them, nor should one share a Bata [cooking vessel] with them—this is forbidden for a Sachiyaar Sikh, and doing so (keeping this Rehat) is a very high Bibeki Karam.
The ground below them is a sallow, earthy yellow covered with grass, complementing the dirty ivory color of the partially-bleached skulls.
In Thailand Pali is transliterated into the Thai alphabet, resulting in a Thai pronunciation of the Pali language.
In elections between only two candidates where one is mildly unpopular and the other immensely unpopular, opponents of both candidates frequently advocate a vote for the mildly unpopular candidate.
In 2014, a controversy arose when the United States Presbyterian Church (PCUSA) published a study guide, Zionism Unsettled, quickly withdrawn from sale on its website, that asserted that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict was fueled by a "pathology inherent in Zionism".
Crowley thought that it was important for ceremonial magicians to perform a eucharistic ritual of some kind daily: A Eucharist of some sort should most assuredly be consummated daily by every magician, and he should regard it as the main sustenance of his magical life.
I am Yokabar-Kušṭa, I who went away from the house of my father and came (here) (ana hu iukabar kušṭa, ḏ-asgit mn bit ab atib).
The perspectives of those Jewish groups opposed to the use of intercessors is usually softer in regard to beseeching the Almighty alone merely in the "merit" (zechut) of a tzadik.
Hindu saints have often renounced the world, and are variously called gurus, sadhus, rishis, swamis, muni, yogis, yoginis and other names.
394) in which he recounted how he tore apart a curtain hanging on the doors of the church decorated with an image of 'Christ or one of the saints' and admonished the other bishop that such images are "opposed ...
Within the VR motion ride Battle for Eire at Busch Gardens Williamsburg, the Sluagh are the minions of the evil villain Balor in the ride's story.
The Vedanta school instead holds that a single, unitary principle (i.e., God, Brahman) comprises all of reality, giving rise to both the material and spiritual.
The Five Deities are a cosmological conception of the fivefold manifestation of the supreme God, or his five changing faces, that are elaborated in the classic texts and may originate from the Neolithic.
The King then appoints that monk to the office of Je Khenpo and in turn, the Lopons are appointed on the same criteria by the Je Khenpo on the advice of the remaining members of the Dratshang Lhentshog.
The instance of a Pope doing this outside an Ecumenical Council is rare, though there were two instances in recent times: the Immaculate Conception of Mary in 1854 and the Assumption of Mary into heaven in 1950.
Having the proper mental attitude toward views is therefore considered an integral part of the Buddhist path, as sometimes correct views need to be put into practice and incorrect views abandoned, while at other times all views are seen as obstacles to enlightenment.
Altars, incense sticks, candles, and torches form the axis by sending a column of smoke, and prayer, toward heaven.
A most occult plant, sacred in Egypt, India and elsewhere; called “the child of the Universe bearing the likeness of its mother in its bosom”.
Tenth-century German ecclesiastical writings denounce the popular belief in three sisters who determined the course of a man's life at his birth.
Parallels in Mandaeism In Mandaeism, the uthra (celestial spirit) Piriawis Ziwa is the personification of the heavenly river of living water.
The text addresses such criticisms while also reinforcing Christianity's distinct identity in relation to surrounding religious traditions.
Influence Medieval politics The influence of Arthur's legend is not confined to novels, stories, and films; the legend of Arthur's messianic return has often been politically influential.
Rawls defined justice as fairness, especially in distributing social goods, defined fairness in terms of procedures, and attempted to prove that just institutions and lives are good, if every rational individual's goods are considered fairly.
In addition to gods and natural forces, the Greeks also recognized a class of intermediate beings known as daimones (δαίμονες), whose roles ranged from protective spirits to agents of fate.
Nuclear Orthodoxy has been linked to similar ideas of Russian messianism by researchers, such as Maria Engström of Uppsala University, and been compared to jihadism for its emphasis on holy war.
The best way to have an idea of God was through connecting with Him personally, directly and physically through His extensions.
The "Causality of the Residence" means that the Nakayama Residence, where Tenrikyo Church Headquarters stands, is the place that humankind was conceived.
Krishnamurti went on to reject the messiah-like status granted to him by Leadbeater and dissolved the Order in 1929, leaving the amphitheatre to be sold off to entrepreneur George Bishop in 1931.
Ecumenism In the 20th century, the Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox Churches, "through the efforts of the Faith and Order Commission of the World Council of Churches", began entering into ecumenical dialogue to explore the potential of the schism being mended.
Both Tolkien and other scholars have been aware of the contradiction implied by this position: if Orcs were essentially "beasts", then they should not have had a moral sense; if they were corrupted Elves, then treating them as "other" to be slaughtered was straightforward racism.
Where the gift of prophecy was believed to be lacking—perhaps even because of said lack—there grew an inordinate desire for special divine manifestations.
However, when somebody, usually an old woman, does this, she frightens her grandchildren, who cry until she resumes her old skin, an act which mandates death for future generations.
Monolatry is the belief that many deities exist, but that only one of these deities may be validly worshipped.
Anscombe commented on the process after Lewis's death that the rewrite showed "honesty and seriousness" on the part of Lewis.
Lower mythology is a sphere of mythological representations relating to characters who have no divine status, demons and spirits, as opposed to higher gods and the official cult.
Arguments "God" can be proved not to mean anything that exists because the alleged definition of God is circular and meaningless.
Fascinated by O.T.O's emphasis on sex magic, Crowley devised a magical working based on anal sex and incorporated it into the syllabus for those O.T.O.
The motifs conceive the world as being created, organized, or influenced by two demiurges, culture heroes, or other mythological beings, who compete with each other or have a complementary function in creating, arranging or influencing the world.
Soldiers are prohibited from defecating in the open field, in such a way that their waste remains visible, but must carry with them a trowel-like implement needed to dig a hole in a pre-designated place and to cover-up their excreta after relieving themselves.
Earth gives birth to vegetation, and for the purpose of the poem, this prominently includes Tree and Reed.
He is believed to manifest at the end of world cycles to rescue the chosen people, and would be distinguished by certain signs including talismans, practices, and virtues.
In Akkadian disputations, examples include the Tamarisk and Palm, Palm and Vine, and Series of the Poplar.
The Holy Spirit The New Testament refers to the Holy Spirit as masculine in a number of places, where the masculine Greek word "Paraclete" occurs, for "Comforter", most clearly in the Gospel of John, chapters 14 to 16.
This attitude is named as a dogmatic one, or dogmatism, and is often used to refer to matters related to religion, though this pejorative sense strays far from the formal sense in which it is applied to religious belief.
The idea of the Israelites being chosen by God is found most directly in the Book of Deuteronomy, where it is applied to Israel at Mount Sinai upon the condition of their acceptance of the Mosaic covenant between themselves and God.
According to rabbinical tradition, the bat kol coexisted with prophecy (that is, when the Holy Spirit rested upon Israel and Babylonia).
The 613 Mitzvot: A Contemporary Guide to the Commandments of Judaism, Rockville, Schreiber Publishing, 2005.
The genre of lives of the saints first came into being in the Roman Empire as legends about Christian martyrs were recorded.
It was about a year before the Primrose building went up that Alice Bailey, subsequently a Theosophical and Spiritualist leader and author, moved to a "cottage on Beechwood Drive," to be near the Krotona colony, from Pacific Grove, CA, near Monterey.
In Adyar, Fuller created an "unknown number" of portraits of the mahatmas, including the Lord Buddha.
One criticism of this view focuses on the counterintuitive implication that mental states like fear do not influence behavior.
“Confronting the Domination System - JSTOR.” JSTOR, Sage Publications Ltd., www.jstor.org/stable/43052707.
In the United States, the term is also used to refer to crimes related to drugs, alcohol, and gambling.
He is sometimes shown with a fiery halo hiding his face, head, or whole body, and from about 1500 is often shown with a veiled face.
Other themes are the failure of a message to be delivered to humans, or a severing of the link between heaven and Earth.
Magick, Liber ABA, Book 4 is a book by 20th-century occultist Aleister Crowley with Mary Desti and Leila Waddell.
The term has analogues dating to before European contact, and the word uses of gitche and manitou existed before contact.
Chinese Buddhism The history of Chinese Buddhism began circa the 1st or 2nd century CE when Silk Road Buddhist missionaries (originally perceived as foreign Huang-Lao Daoists) arrived in China.
If existence is not a predicate, then it is not necessarily true that the greatest possible being exists.
Modern Indians who have vouched for astral projection include Paramahansa Yogananda who witnessed Swami Pranabananda doing a miracle through a possible astral projection.
Literature The Pranatoshani Tantra states that: The material is also mentioned in the Skanda Purana and Padma Purana.
In terms of "proper conduct" and other ethical precepts within the Hindu framework, the core belief involves the divinity of each individual soul (jivatma).
The conflict between the groups is essentially over what constitutes prayer, worship, a mediator (melitz), and an agent (sarsur).
Similar sentiments that were preached by Kamwana and initially by Domingo, although he became more conservative in later years.
The other two are political theology (theologia civilis) and natural theology (theologia naturalis).
After the fall of Jerusalem in 1187, the convent was deserted and fell into ruin with only the tomb and barrel vaulting surviving.
See also Laws of Form Mark and space Worship of heavenly bodies References Citations Works cited Primary sources Secondary sources == Further reading ==
According to The Guardian, "[e]ven among Charedi, or ultra-Orthodox circles, the Neturei Karta are regarded as a wild fringe".
In the 1840s, Spear was active in petitioning for social reform including women's rights, labor reform, and the removal of the death penalty.
It's reasonable to assume that there must be, in fact, countless billions of such planets where biological life has arisen, and the odds of some proportion of such life developing intelligence are high.
The first unofficial institution of dogma in the Christian church was by Saint Irenaeus in his Demonstration of Apostolic Teaching, which provides a 'manual of essentials' constituting the 'body of truth'.
ISBN 0-87728-516-0 See also Aleister Crowley bibliography "The Sect of the Phoenix" – story by Jorge Luis Borges References External links Full text of The Book of Lies The Book of Lies public domain audiobook at LibriVox
The group’s initial name was the Colloquium on Violence and Religion and Society, but this was soon shortened to the Colloquium on Violence and Religion, or COV&R.
Bhāruci's commentary (bhashya) on the Manu Smrti, or Laws of Manu, is part of the corpus of Dharmaśāstra texts available to us today.
Catholicism holds that the understanding of scripture continues to deepen and mature over time through the action of the Holy Spirit in the history of the church and in the understanding of that faith by Christians, all the while staying identical in essence and substance.
Skin sensation: The original recipe for Abramelin oil does not irritate the skin and can be applied according to traditional Jewish and Christian religious and magical practices.
("Do not harm your neighbor; this being well understood, do that which pleases you.") In Thelema, a similar phrase, "Do what thou wilt shall be the whole of the Law", appears in Aleister Crowley's works by 1904, in The Book of the Law.
History The Colloquium on Violence and Religion is the oldest international organization dedicated to exploring mimetic theory.
However, the symptoms as a proposed disorder closely resemble those found in individuals with delusions of grandeur or with grandiose self-images that veer towards the delusional.
This was the third time during Inslee's tenure the state's budget was passed in the last week of the legislative session.
Education and career Nordhaus was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico, the son of Virginia (Riggs) and Robert J.
Eventually, this cost grew so great that any new challenges such as invasions and crop failures could not be solved by the acquisition of more territory.
He "does not intend to have a cell phone ever." Smil is known for being "intensely private", shunning the press while letting his books speak for themselves.
His speeches and networking with world leaders at international meetings such as the United Nations Climate Change Conferences have also been influential.
The Energy Gang Shah was a founding co-host of The Energy Gang, a podcast dedicated to exploring the technological, political, and market forces driving energy and environmental issues.
Yohe also worked with the Core Writing Team to prepare the overall Synthesis Report for the entire Assessment.
Lynch said LaRouche members began to impersonate her and her researchers in telephone calls, and called her "Fat Lynch" in their publications.
Copenhagen Consensus Bjørn Lomborg chose Tol to participate in his "Copenhagen Consensus" project in 2008.
I will defend myself." In 1987, a number of LaRouche entities, including the Fusion Energy Foundation, were taken over through an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding.
Jaccard has been a professor at Simon Fraser University since 1986, where he teaches courses in environment and resource economics, sustainable energy and materials, and energy and materials economic and policy modeling.
On July 2, 2013, Zucchet (an avid bridge and card player at Duke University), finished in 4th place for $143,642 in Event #54, $1,000 No-Limit Hold'em, at the World Series of Poker.
Shihab-Eldin currently serves as an adjunct professor at the Executive Academy of the Vienna University of Economics and Business (WU), teaching in the MBA Energy Management program and sitting on its advisory board.
He taught two graduate courses: Ec2680 Environmental and Natural Resource Economics and Ec2690, Environmental Economics and Policy Seminar.
Selected publications Books Auctions: Theory and Practice, Princeton University Press, Princeton, US, 2004.
Three years later, Weitzman was promoted to associate professor, and he remained in this position until 1972 when he joined the faculty at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as an associate professor.
Prior to the Loan Programs Office, Shah gained prominence as an American clean energy entrepreneur, author and podcast host.
Consisting of academics drawn from across Africa, the United States of America, and the United Kingdom, the board assisted in the development and broadening of technical workforce skills across Africa.
Honors Scientific and engineering academies Among many honors, he is a Member of the United States National Academy of Sciences, the American Philosophical Society, and an Elected Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
In April 2004, Currie warned of the 'revenge of the old economy' after decades of a lack of investment in the old economy, claiming that higher commodity prices were likely needed to attracted capital.
His research considers the degree to which US companies avoid pollution regulations by importing dirty products; an explanation of why pollution is worse for middle-income countries; and how to use self-reported happiness measures to put a dollar value on air quality.
Education and qualifications Tertzakian has an undergraduate degree in Geophysics from the University of Alberta, and a graduate degree in Econometrics from the University of Southampton, U.K.
A founding co-director of Harvard's Solar Geoengineering Research Program (2017–2019) he joined the faculty of New York University in 2019, moving to Columbia University in 2022.
Jigar Shah (born August 30, 1974) is an American entrepreneur who served as the director of the Loan Programs Office (LPO) in the U.S.
The CNN article article was subsequently shared by Questlove and others; Wagner recounted the episode in a conversation with Holly Buck.
His analysis on this subject has featured prominently in the Financial Times, which described it as "thought provoking": [Newell] argued that "there has never been an energy transition" because, as each new technology has emerged, it has merely added to older sources, rather than replacing them.
Those books include, Managing the Global Commons: The Economics of Climate Change (1994), which won the 2006 award for "Publication of Enduring Quality" from the Association of Environmental and Resource Economists.
Among books promoted as serious intellectual statements by important thinkers, I don't think I have ever read a shoddier work.
He taught courses in micro- and macro-economics, econometrics, industrial organization, and economic strategy.
In 2009, Tol published a controversial paper that combined data from several earlier studies, concluding that at least some amount of global warming could lead to economic gains.
Johnson wrote in 1983 that both the Fusion Energy Foundation and the National Democratic Policy Committee had attracted some 20,000 members, as well as 300,000 magazine subscribers.
His father returned from military service in World War II and, considering himself unable to care for his son, placed him in an orphanage.
He also led the negotiations of the foreign investment provisions of the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
Awards In 1996 he was awarded the Stratospheric Ozone Protection Award by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and in 2007 he was presented with the Leontief Prize for Advancing the Frontiers of Economic Thought by the Global Development and Environment Institute.
The Mayan and Chacoan regions had no powerful complex neighbors and so could collapse for centuries or millennia, as could the Western Roman Empire.
Sophie Brochu (born 1963) is a Canadian economist and manager from Quebec who worked for 22 years at Gaz Métro/Énergir.
Climate and energy policy Wagner was an economist at the Environmental Defense Fund from 2008 to 2014 and lead senior economist from 2014 to 2016.
See also Andy Stirling David Elliott Energy Fair Gordon Walker World Nuclear Industry Status Report == References ==
Since the sun will continue to shine for billions of years to come, the earth's mineral stock is the scarcer one of these two main sources of low entropy.
2, Brill, Leiden Staff "Meyer, Albert Julius (1919-1983)" (1984) Contemporary Authors: A bio-bibliographical guide to current writers in fiction, general nonfiction, poetry, journalism, drama, motion pictures, television, and other fields Vol.
Albert Julius Meyer (14 May 1919 – 31 October 1983) was an American economist who taught at Harvard University for 28 years.
Early life Broadman was born in New York City, attended The Loomis Chaffee School, and graduated from Brown University in 1977 with an A.B.
Gary Yohe later accused Lomborg of "deliberate distortion of our conclusions", adding that "as one of the authors of the Copenhagen Consensus Project's principal climate paper, I can say with certainty that Lomborg is misrepresenting our findings thanks to a highly selective memory".
Instead of putting goods and their prices directly into the index we should reduce all goods to their constituent characteristics.
In 2012, Keohane returned to the Environmental Defense Fund as vice president for Global Climate, and later served as Senior Vice President for Climate.
Education After completing his Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) degree in Environmental Sciences and his M.A.
Education Ph.D.: University of Grenoble, Department of Economics / Institute of Energy Economics and Policy, 1987.
During the 2008 financial crisis, he advised the UK and US governments and developed a new form of auction (the Product Mix auction) to help the Bank of England alleviate the liquidity crisis.
He would reprise the role as band leader with an ad hoc jazz group, Lee Schipper and the Mitigators, who performed primarily in conjunction with energy-related conferences.
He specialises in the economics and policy of nuclear power (of which he is a critic), liberalisation and privatisation of the electricity and gas industries, and trade policy on network energy industries.
From that point on, he predicts, ever deepening scarcities will cause widespread misery, aggravate social conflict throughout the globe, and intensify man's economic struggle to work and earn a livelihood.
He stood for Lothian East at the 2024 general election, where he finished in seventh place out of seven candidates, winning 577 votes and a 1.2% share.
Instead of a peak, Yergin predicted that future oil production would plateau as increasing prices moderate demand and stimulate production.
His best-known work, The Collapse of Complex Societies (1988), examines the collapse of Maya and Chacoan civilizations, and of the Western Roman Empire, in terms of network theory, energy economics and complexity theory.
Spatial Ecological-Economic Analysis for Wetland Management: Modelling and Scenario Evaluation of Land Use, Cambridge University Press.
He also holds a Master of Science in Management of Technology from the MIT Sloan School of Management.
Intense, authoritarian efforts to maintain cohesion by Domitian and Constantine the Great only led to ever greater strain on the population.
Later in his life, Georgescu-Roegen would regret having turned down Schumpeter's generous offer at this point in his career.
Currie was a key speaker alongside other leading private, public and Governmental figures at the Future Minerals Forum 2024, where he contributed to the conference's key focus on the mineral sector across Africa, Western and Central Asia.
While on leave from Georgetown in 2010–11, he served as a Senior Economist at the White House Council of Economic Advisers.
EPA's highest honor for working with a team of economists that completed "complex and rigorous analysis of greenhouse gas mitigation options, leading to President Clinton's announcement of an aggressive climate change policy." March 1998.
He is a professor in the management department at Western Washington University, where from 2016 to 2023 he served as Wilder Distinguished Professor of Business and Sustainability, an endowed professorship.
Wagner's latest academic work on this topic, joint with Kent Daniel of Columbia University and Bob Litterman of Kepos Capital further emphasizes the importance of pricing climate risk and uncertainty.
He served as an expert witness at the Department of Energy's hearings on the National Energy Strategy and testified at Congressional hearings on priorities in global climate change research.
Tainter points out that it can be seen as a rational preference of individuals, many of whom were better off.
Shortly thereafter, two Hollywood environmental organizations, Earth Communications Office (ECO) and the Environmental Media Association, were formed.
He was elected a fellow of the Econometric Society in 1994, a fellow of the British Academy in 1999, and a foreign honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2005.
Georgescu-Roegen found that two of his other main sources of inspiration, namely Karl Pearson and Albert Einstein, also had a largely Machian outlook.
oil import policy, regulatory reform of the natural gas industry, and oil exploration and development in non-OPEC developing countries.
References External links Jigar Shah – Department of Energy Creating Climate Wealth // Amazon Plumer, Brad; Friedman, Lisa (May 11, 2023).
where he did his undergraduate work, majoring in physics and electrical engineering, and received his bachelor's degree in 1966.
He has been a senior fellow of SIEPR since 1998 and a senior fellow by courtesy at the Hoover Institution from 2001 until his retirement.
Economist Filip Palda summarizes the importance of Nordhaus's insight when he writes, The practical lesson to be drawn from this fascinating study of lighting is that the way we measure the consumer price index is severely flawed.
Broadcaster Since 19 October 2019, Milov has been broadcasting a weekly program about international politics, Hugs With Dictators, on his YouTube channel.
Richels has served on a number of national and international advisory panels, including committees of the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the National Research Council.
In many cases, buyers used the rebate to buy something bigger and more high-powered than they would have otherwise.
He was also a member of the United Nations Environment Programme Economic Options Panel, which reviewed the economic aspects of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer.
Birol's work at the IEA has led to a number of his international honours and recognitions (see table below).
Career In the 1990s and early 2000s, Newell was a senior associate at the global advisory and digital services provider ICF International, a teaching fellow at Harvard University, and a senior fellow at Resources for the Future.
From 1981 to 1984, he worked at Phillips Petroleum Co., where he was Director for International Affairs.
He was the Scottish National Party Member of Parliament (MP) for East Lothian from 2015, until he lost his seat to Martin Whitfield of the Labour Party at the 2017 general election.
In the heated controversies that followed the report, Georgescu-Roegen found himself largely on the same side as the club, and opposed to the mainstream economists.
While at Harvard he co-authored an article arguing for placing a $10.00 tariff on imported oil to curb U.S.
Though trailing in early polls, he won election with 52% of the vote, a three-point margin over his Republican opponent, state attorney general Rob McKenna.
On September 18, 1996, a full-page advertisement appeared in the New Federalist, a LaRouche publication, as well as The Washington Post and Roll Call.
He obtained a master's degree in Electrical Engineering (Technology and Policy Program) in 1993 and a doctorate in Management Science in 1998, both at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
His doctorate thesis, An Econometric Model of Tourism Demand and a Computable General Equilibrium Analysis of the Impact of Tourism: The Case of Fiji Islands was assessed to be the most outstanding work, earning him the Mollie Hollman Medal in 2004 at Monash University.
Sweeney is an American economist and engineer specializing in energy economics, environmental policy, and natural resource economics.
President Prodi remarked that the EU hydrogen R&D initiative would be as significant for the future of Europe as the space program was for the U.S.
"Skip" Laitner, in People-Centered Initiatives for Increasing Energy Savings, Karen Ehrhardt-Martinez and John A.
He pointed out that the study "stops short of the most that can be supported on a cost benefit basis" and stated that "it does not seem reasonable" to rely solely on Tol's own FUND model when alternatives "reported in the peer-reviewed literature are also credible".
When LaRouche's "heavily fortified" estate was surrounded, he at first warned law-enforcement officials not to arrest him, saying that any attempt to do so would be an attempt to kill him.
From 2001 to 2007, he was an Assistant Professor and then associate professor of economics at the Yale School of Management.
A 98-year-old farmer accused Weitzman of multiple manure thefts from the farm, while Weitzman argued he had permission from the farmer's son to take the manure.
According to his ICREA profile page as of March 2015, his research is on "the intersection of economics, environmental science and innovation studies.
See also Societal collapse Collapsology State collapse Wicked problem References Further reading Kohr, Leopold: The Breakdown of Nations, 1957.
He is a winner of the Spinozapremie (1996), the European Prize in Regional Science, and Founder's Medal of the Regional Science Association International.
Currie earned a Master of Arts Economics at the University of Chicago in December 1990, and a PhD in economics from the university in June 1996.
Following the demise of the IMG, Kerevan joined the Labour Party and served as a councillor for the party in Edinburgh from 1984 to 1996.
Stephen DeCanio (born 1942) is a Professor of economics, emeritus, at the University of California, Santa Barbara.
Employment History On completion of his doctoral studies, Narayan was appointed a lecturer at the Griffith Business School, on the Gold Coast, Australia, and was promoted to senior lecturer in 2005.
at Queens University, Leach was appointed as an assistant professor at HEC Montreal, a post he held for three years.
Jaccard, 2014, "A comparative assessment of economic-incentive and command-and-control instruments for air pollution and CO2 control in *China’s iron and steel sector," Journal of Environmental Management.
With Tadeusz Patzek, he is author of Drilling Down: The Gulf Oil Debacle and Our Energy Dilemma, published in 2011.
Evidence for this was publishing 15 letters to the editor in the New York Times on energy efficiency.
One activist said he attended meetings where members were writhing on the floor saying they needed de-programming.
(convening lead author) et al., 2012, "Energy Policies: Objectives and Instruments," Chapter 22 in Johansson, T., Patwardhan, A., Nakicenovic, N.
In 2007-12 he served as convening lead author for energy policy in the production of the Global Energy Assessment.
The aim of the NCLC was to win control of the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) branch – the university's main activist group – and build a political alliance between students, local residents, organized labor, and the Columbia faculty.
He has played a significant role in various EU policy projects and has taught extensively on topics related to sustainable development and energy policy across various international platforms.
He was a lead author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Second, Third and Fourth Assessment Reports (the IPCC shared the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with Al Gore) and served on the Synthesis Team for the US National Assessment of Climate Change Impacts on the United States.
The theme of the presentation was that security assistance in Central America would be enhanced through economic growth and prosperity.
The student involved was allowed to adapt the thesis and the graduation ceremony took place in 2014.
William Martin served for ten years (from 2000 to 2010) as Chairman of the Nuclear Energy Advisory Committee during the administrations of George W.
The process has already begun." His 1998 book, The Biotech Century, addresses issues accompanying the new era of genetic commerce.
His grandfather Olney Flynn was mayor of Tulsa and the Republican nominee for Governor of Oklahoma in 1948.
In addition, Parker is a Research Fellow and Visiting Scholar at the MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy, where he leads platform industry research studies and co-chairs the annual MIT Platform Strategy Summit.
His published research includes a 2001 study in the Journal of Public Economics showing how the environmental Kuznets curve can be explained by a one-person, two-good model without market failures.
Jaccard, 2013, "A tale of two climate policies: Political-economy of British Columbia’s carbon tax and clean electricity standard." Canadian Public Policy.
Testimony, Analysis, and Commentary Newell has testified on multiple occasions in front of the United States Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, most recently on global climate emissions trends and clean energy advancements.
Climate Shock details how what we know about global warming is bad and what we do not know is potentially much worse.
He is also a research associate with the National Bureau of Economic Research and a Fellow of the Econometric Society.
In October 2023, Currie was appointed as Director of the Company by the Board of international drilling contractor, Borr Drilling.
He holds an AB and a PhD in political economy and government from Harvard University, as well as an MA in economics from Stanford University.
Memberships and directorships Yergin is the current vice chairman of S&P Global, appointed during the company's merger with IHS Markit.
5 Behn, Wolfgang (2006) "Meyer, Albert Julius (1919-1983)" Concise Biographical Companion to Index Islamicus Vol.
Rifkin delivered a keynote address on transforming the European Union into a smart third industrial revolution paradigm.
Securing Nebraska’s Energy and Economic Future: Creating Jobs, New Economic Opportunities and Health Benefits through Productive Investments in Wind Energy and Energy Efficiency, by John A.
He was also one of the world's experts on Wilhelm Furtwangler, a 20th-century symphonic and operatic conductor, and collected one of the most complete sets of his recordings.
Public policy He was principal auction-theorist designing the UK '3G' mobile-phone license auction that raised £22½ billion in spring 2000 and was far more successful than several parallel exercises on the European continent.
One of his early works is the wildly popular introductory textbook, Economics, co-authored with Paul Samuelson.
According to Reuters, "since then he has given advice to every administration." 1980s–1990s He founded Cambridge Energy Research Associates (CERA) with Jamey Rosenfield in 1982 with the purchase of a $2 file cabinet from The Salvation Army.
However, in most analyses, the damages that would stem from dramatic climate change are not taken into consideration.
He is also a senior economic research fellow for the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration (RANEPA).
Another article he co-wrote, “Pipelines, Platforms, and the New Rules of Strategy,” was cited in Harvard Business Review’s 2025 “Definitive HBR Strategy Glossary” under the category of Platform Strategy.
Additionally, degrowth is unlikely to gain significant social or political support, making it an ineffective strategy for achieving environmental sustainability.
In 2021, he completed a book on climate change, titled Climate Future: Averting and Adapting to Climate Change (Oxford University Press).
He said ‘‘Lee was one of the first people to point out that people don’t want to consume energy, but they want to consume energy services, like transportation, comfortable rooms, cold beer and so forth.
He previously served as an associate editor for the journal Management Science and was President of the Industry Studies Association.
He acknowledges that this level of taxation is too low to significantly discourage fossil fuel use but argues it would help to stimulate the development of fuel-saving technology and improve the competitiveness of renewable energy sources.
Milov co-authored with the late Boris Nemtsov in 2008 a report on the Putin administration's failures, which was suppressed.
Nicholas Stern argued that the damage function does not capture many of the most important risks to society.
Pachauri, chair of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, for having "contributed substantially to the work of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)," thus contributing to the IPCC's award of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize.
As a UC Berkeley student and vibraphonist, he led his jazz group to victory at the Notre Dame Jazz Festival in 1967.
Trip to the United States, meeting Schumpeter In autumn 1934, Georgescu-Roegen went to the United States.
Leach says that carbon pricing is not necessarily and unconditionally going to "achieve a better outcome" than with regulation or cap and trade.
In Energy Efficiency: Building a Clean, Secure Economy (2016), he argued that improvements in energy efficiency have played a central role in U.S.
After teaching at Tufts University (1970–72) and Yale University (1972–78), he joined the faculty at UCSB in 1978.
References External links Arik Levinson publications indexed by Google Scholar Arik Levinson home page.
Another branch, represented by Robert Pindyck, holds that integrated assessment models cannot capture the complexity of the climate-economy nexus.
The book explains what we know and don't know about climate change, argues that despite our best intentions and efforts temperatures are likely to rise substantially over the coming decades, and shows how forms of adaptation can be used to reduce the impact of warming.
See also List of Yale University people List of American non-fiction environmental writers List of economic advisors to Donald Trump List of University of Cambridge people Predicting the timing of peak oil References External links Official website Appearances on C-SPAN Daniel Yergin at IMDb
External links Utah State University Archived 2021-09-18 at the Wayback Machine, Joseph Tainter official faculty page How Do You Know When Society Is About to Fall Apart?
Reception Included among Smil's admirers is Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, who has said: "I wait for new Smil books the way some people wait for the next Star Wars movie." "He's a slayer of bullshit," says David Keith, an energy and climate scientist at Harvard University.
Gomez-Echeverri (eds.) The Global Energy Assessment: Towards a Sustainable Future, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
His testimony included two appearances before the Energy and Commerce Committee, Subcommittee on Energy and Environment.
The investigation committee under Jaap Zwemmer concluded in March 2015 that Nijkamp had re-used earlier publications in new papers on a certain scale, without proper referencing and the committee qualified this as "questionable research practice".
He later went on to work with others on a specific element of this process: the diminishing marginal returns on innovation.
He lives in a house with unusually thick insulation, grows some of his own food, and eats meat roughly once a week.
Under his leadership, association agreements increased with major producers of energy, especially with countries outside the OECD in the Global South, such as India and China.
Olmstead (Island Press, 5 January 2016) References External links Nat Keohane, Center for Climate and Energy Solutions
Ein Reiseführer für überzeugte Daheimbleiber, Wien, Ueberreuter-Verlag 2003, ISBN 3-8000-3957-5 2011: But Will The Planet Notice?.
1MDB controversy In 2009 Morse provided a valuation for the Malaysian state fund 1MDB for petroleum exploration and production assets associated with PetroSaudi International Ltd.
His father Irving Yergin worked at Warner Brothers and was editor of The Hollywood Reporter and a former journalist in Chicago.
That model changed the status quo, allowing organizations to purchase solar energy services under long-term predictably priced contracts and avoid the significant capital costs of ownership and operation of solar energy systems.
doi:10.1086/704493 References External links In memorium article by Gernot Wagner and Robert Stavins Home page
The court ruling was credited with beginning the process of regulating the release of genetically engineered organisms into the environment in the United States and around the world.
Career 2012 to Present: Founder of Economic and Human Dimensions Research Associates, based in Tucson, Arizona, where he leads a team of consultants.
Fatih Birol (born 22 March 1958) is a Turkish economist and energy expert, who has served as the executive director of the Paris-based International Energy Agency (IEA) since 1 September 2015.
Corruption allegations Three days after becoming acting Mayor, Zucchet resigned from the City Council after he was convicted in U.S.
1983: Move from New York to Loudoun County The Washington Post wrote that LaRouche and his wife moved in August 1983 from New York to a 13-room Georgian mansion on a 250-acre section of the Woodburn Estate, near Leesburg, Loudoun County, Virginia.
The National Program was established to ensure continuity of the United States government in the event of a nuclear attack.
Dunn also serves on the faculty of the Institute for Energy Studies, on the Graduate Faculty Governance Council, and on the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Advocacy Council.
Weitzman also derived the Gittins index – a celebrated result in the applied probability literature – independently from (and in parallel to) John C.
Jaccard), 2011, "Policy, Financing and Implementation," In Edenhofer et al., IPCC Special Report on Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change Mitigation Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
A "perspective paper" by Anil Markandya of the University of Bath on the Yohe/Tol study stated that "a short time period analysis is misleading" when all the costs are incurred during the period examined but benefits continue to accrue after its conclusion.
Representative Sid Morrison chose not to run for reelection representing Washington's 4th congressional district, instead mounting a campaign for governor.
Professional career Kerevan held academic posts at Napier College, including Senior Lecturer in Economics, from 1975 to 2000, specialising in energy economics.
Reporting on the growing controversy over automation and technology displacement in 2011, The Economist pointed out that Rifkin drew attention to the trend back in 1996 with the publication of his book, The End of Work.
He has served as Editor of the Energy, Environment and National Resources area of the Operations Research Journal.
Economics has been called a "canonical textbook", and the development of mainstream economic thought has been traced by comparing the nineteen editions over the 1948–2010 period.
He studied mathematics as an undergraduate at the University of California, Berkeley and received his Ph.D.
Williamson writing for The Regulatory Review, a publication of the Penn Program on Regulation, notes how "changes in the composition of goods manufactured in the U.S.
New York, Hill & Wang/Farrar Straus & Giroux, ISBN 0-8090-5207-5 2015: Climate Shock, joint with Martin Weitzman, Princeton University Press 2015, ISBN 978-0-691-15947-8 (Financial Times-McKinsey Top 15 Business Book of the Year 2015.
Jeff Currie is an economist and currently Chief Strategy Officer of Energy Pathways at The Carlyle Group.
Physicist Edward Teller, a proponent of SDI and X-ray lasers, told reporters in 1984 that he had been courted by LaRouche but had kept his distance.
He obtained his PhD from UC Berkeley in management science in 1976 and has been at Stanford since 1977.
Nordhaus' model is now widely spread and is used to simulate how the economy and the climate co-evolve." Many of the news outlets that reported on Nordhaus's prize noted that he was in the early wave of economists who embraced a carbon tax as a preferred method of carbon pricing.
After graduating from Collège de Lévis, where she performed on stage under the supervision of Denis Bernard and Robert Lepage, Brochu was admitted to the Conservatoire d'art dramatique de Québec.
Yergin has been a member of the Secretary of Energy Advisory Board under presidents Bill Clinton, George W.
IEA leadership While at the International Energy Agency, Birol has overseen several major changes in the approach of the organization.
The End of Energy Obesity: Breaking Today's Energy Addiction for a Prosperous and Secure Tomorrow (2009).
In 2013, Nordhaus chaired a committee of the National Research Council that produced a report discounting the impact of fossil fuel subsidies on greenhouse gas emissions.
From 1979 to 1981, Morse served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Energy Policy.
In Rifkin's 1989 revised edition of Entropy:..., entitled Entropy: Into the Greenhouse World, its "afterword" was written by Georgescu-Roegen.
Gorbachev also hated my guts and called for my assassination and imprisonment and so forth." He asserted that he had survived these threats, because he had been protected by unnamed U.S.
In 2014, Narayan received the Scopus Young Researcher award for the best three authors in Australia in the Social Science category under the age of forty.
After graduation he refused to join the Communist party, undermining his job prospects, though he found employment at a regional planning office.
He previously worked as a senior fellow at the organization from 1997 to 2006 and has served on its board of directors since 2011.
Measuring the Energy Reduction Impact of Selected Broadband-Enabled Activities within Households Archived 2016-03-22 at the Wayback Machine, by John A.
He was a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Energy and a member of the International Association for Energy Economics.
He was due to act as Review Editor for the chapter on Transport in Working Group III's contribution to the Fifth Assessment Report, released in April 2014.
He was assistant secretary general to the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries in Kuwait from 1976 to 1978.
In 2010 he became the editor-in-chief of the Elsevier journal Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions.
The case for retaining Seafield: a special report on Seafield Colliery and the reasons why Seafield coal is vital to Scotland's energy future.
Think-tank (2002–2011) In November 2002, Milov founded and became the head of the research fund Institute for Strategic Development of the Fuel and Energy Complex (in 2003, it was renamed to Institute for Energy Policy).
Dubner, Tehran: Nashr-e Ney, 2007 Study Guide Accompanying Macroeconomics, with Abel, Bernanke, Smith, and Kneebone,6th Canadian edition, Pearson Canada, 2011.
Daniel Howard Yergin (born February 6, 1947) is an American author, economic historian, and consultant within the energy and economic sectors.
Publications His books include Social Change and Sustainable Transport (with William Black, 2002, Indiana University Press) Public Facilities Planning (with Lili Kiminami and Kenneth Button, 2007, Edward Elgar) Spatial Dynamics, Networks and Modelling (with Aura Reggiani, 2006, Edward Elgar).
The terrorist was Abu Nidal and the New York Times reported that Martin was handling the terrorist attack for the President.
Birol's approach to running the organization is both securing energy security while also facilitating the Energy transition.
He has also been a visiting professor at Tel-Aviv University, Harvard University, and Columbia University.
He is a Partner, managing director, and Chair of the Emerging Markets Practice and Chair of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) Practice at the Berkeley Research Group LLC and on the faculty of Johns Hopkins University.
2020s In September 2020, Yergin published The New Map: Energy, Climate, and the Clash of Nations,with a revised edition published the following year.
His other innovations include the Anglo-Dutch auction, and (with Aytek Erdil) Reference-Rule Pricing for package auctions.
His research showed that if the slope of marginal costs is steeper, price controls are more effective and if the relative slope of marginal damages is steeper, then quantity controls are more effective.
Nyboer, 2011, "Institutions and processes for scaling up renewables: Run-of-river hydropower in British Columbia," Energy Policy.
Tarcher, ISBN 1-58542-193-6 2004, The European Dream: How Europe's Vision of the Future is Quietly Eclipsing the American Dream, Jeremy P.
In November 2020, The Daily Telegraph referred to Currie as the "world's most followed energy guru" and reported on his convictions on a new commodity supercycle.
He was given the Dean's Excellence in Teaching Award for Graduate Education at Freeman School of Business in 2014.
Earlier in his career, he held senior leadership positions at UNESCO and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).
Study in Australia In 2001, he was awarded a Monash graduate school scholarship to study in Australia for three years.
In 2015, Narayan was awarded the Mahatma Gandhi Pravasi Samman Award for non-resident Indians who have made substantial contributions to the profession, including contributions to public policy.
In a new book chapter, Laitner provides a time series dataset that suggests the United States may be only 14 percent energy efficient, a level of inefficiency which could constrain the development of a more robust economy.
In 2017 he was appointed to serve as one of San Diego's three representatives on the San Diego Port Commission, which governs the Port of San Diego.
He graduated in Politics, Philosophy, and Economics from Lincoln College, Oxford and then studied economics at the London School of Economics.
Frank Donner and Randall Rothenberg wrote that he made successful overtures to the Liberty Lobby and George Wallace's American Independent Party, adding that the "racist" policies of LaRouche's U.S.
C2ES partners with business leaders — through their Business Environmental Leadership Council — to develop solutions that will accelerate a low-carbon transition, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and grow an equitable economy.
This necessary material equipment adds to the 'parasitical' operation of solar power, Georgescu-Roegen maintains.
The 3 results were then compared with 27 similar investigations, 3 each relating to 9 other 'challenges' in the areas of health and environment.
The book talks about the prominent role of business model innovation, more than new technology, in attracting mainstream capital and unlocking transformational change.
See also New Yorkers in journalism Environmental economics Climateflation Fossilflation References External links Professional homepage
Books Economics of Money and Banking, with Hamid Bahmanpoor, Tehran: Nashr-e Ney, 2010 Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything (tr.), Steven Levitt, Stephen J.
In December 2018, Inslee announced new legislation aimed at reducing the state's carbon emissions over approximately two decades.
ISBN 978-1845429553 Selected articles As of March 2015 the five most cited articles in Google Scholar by Van den Bergh were: van den Bergh, JCJM; Verbruggen, H (1999).
Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz led a major 229-page study, Advancing the Landscape of Clean Energy Innovation, which was conducted by IHS Markit and Energy Futures Initiative for the Breakthrough Energy coalition, led by Bill Gates.
Andrew Leach is a Canadian energy and environmental economist and a contributing writer to a number of Canadian news outlets including The Globe and Mail, and Maclean's.
Among other works, he is an editor of the book "Avoiding Dangerous Climate Change" and co-author (with Edwin Mansfield) of "Microeconomics| Microeconomics: Theory and Applications".
Peter Nijkamp (born 26 February 1946) is a Dutch economist, Professor of Regional Economics and Economic Geography at the Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, the Netherlands, a fellow of the Tinbergen Institute and President of the Governing Board of the Netherlands Research Council (NWO).
Alternatively, it could lead to savings, which would provide additional funds for others to borrow and spend.
He has argued that two priorities, the environment and justice, while both worthy, "require different policy tools," and that there are pitfalls to trying to combine them in one effort or program.
He then completed the General Electric Company Financial Management Training Program and held multiple positions in engineering and finance at General Electric in North Carolina and Wisconsin.
In 1969, following the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia and Eva's graduation, the Smils emigrated to the United States, leaving the country months before a Soviet travel ban shut the borders.
Selected publications "Shifting Demand: From the Economic Imperative of Energy Efficiency to Business Models that Engage and Empower Consumers," by John A.
One of the most important, incorporating political and moral philosophy, is the use of discounting, with an early study by William Cline.
The World Nuclear Industry Status Report 2009 Commissioned by German Federal Ministry of Environment, Nature Conservation and Reactor Safety, August 2009.
Laitner leads a team of consultants, the Economic and Human Dimensions Research Associates based in Tucson, Arizona.
All of these technology assessments have to do with energy resources only, and not with material resources.
He took part in the development of Russian legislation on the electric power industry, regulation and taxation of the energy sector.
Ronald Bailey, the libertarian science correspondent for Reason, addresses his research on which is worse for poor Americans, energy efficiency standards, or energy taxes.
The European Commission presented a spectrum of proposals, projects, and initiatives under the rubric of "Leading The Third Industrial Revolution", signaling a fundamental transformation of the European economy and society.
A Thousand Barrels a Second: The Coming Oil Break Point and the Challenges Facing an Energy Dependent World (2006).
Tiedemann, 2008, "The neighbor effect: simulating dynamics in consumer preferences for new vehicle technologies," Ecological Economics.
Polenske, Roberto Guerrero Compeán, Ciro Biderman, "Regional, Economic, and Environmental Implications of Dual Ethanol Technologies in Brazil", 2009-07-13 Karen R.
During the 2017 legislative session, the Washington State Legislature failed to pass a state operating budget by the end of its regular session on April 25, so Inslee called for a 30-day special session.
Barring continual conquest of your neighbors, which is always subject to diminishing returns, innovation that increases productivity is – in the long run – the only way out of the dilemma of declining marginal returns on added investments in complexity.
Earlier in his career, his theoretical research on housing market dynamics and on the economics of depletable natural resources helped establish analytical frameworks that influenced subsequent scholarship.
(A copy of this may be found in the References section of the Economics of global warming entry.) Economic Models of Climate Change: A Critique.
In July 1997 he was appointed professor of Environmental Economics in the Faculty of Economics and Business Administration at VU and in 2002 he also became a professor in the Institute for Environmental Studies of VU.
Politics In January 2026, Brochu was named as a potential candidate in the 2026 Quebec Liberal Party leadership election.
'In the years ahead,' he wrote, 'more sophisticated software technologies are going to bring civilization ever closer to a near-workerless world.
In November 2017, during an interview with Bloomberg, Currie stated that Bitcoin should be considered a commodity that shares many similarities with gold.
economy, for which he derived trajectories for the money supply and government spending that were optimal in the sense of keeping unemployment and inflation close to target levels.
His papers (many of which are co-authored with Jeremy Bulow) apply ideas from auction theory to other economic contexts, including finance and political economy.
In effect, overpopulation on earth is largely a dynamic long run phenomenon, being a by-product of ever more constraining mineral scarcities.
Milov authored numerous analytical materials, concept papers and publications on energy policy and infrastructure development in Russia.
Business activities Martin co-founded an international energy consulting firm, Washington Policy & Analysis Inc.
Growing up in a remote mountain town in the Plzeň Region, Smil cut wood daily to keep the home heated.
They later published it in 2011 as an electioneering plank for the People's Freedom Party together with former Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov and Vladimir Ryzhkov, only to be met by accusations from Putin of "stealing from the state".
Weitzman joined the Yale University faculty, in 1967, before moving to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and then the economics department at Harvard University in 1989, where he taught until his death in 2019.
Diminishing returns Tainter begins by categorizing the often inconsistent explanations that have been offered for collapse in the literature.
Jeremy Rifkin is the executive co-producer and star of a feature-length documentary film produced by VICE Media entitled The Third Industrial Revolution: A Radical New Sharing Economy.
The Georgescu-Roegen Annual Awards In 2012, two awards in honour of Georgescu-Roegen's life and work were established by The Energy and Resources Institute in New Delhi, India: The Georgescu-Roegen Annual Awards.
Currie then correctly foresaw the biggest decline in the price of gold for three decades in April 2013, two days ahead of the crash.
Tol specialises in energy economics and environmental economics, with a particular interest in climate change, such as the economics of global warming.
He previously served as Director General and board member of the Kuwait Foundation for the Advancement of Sciences (2007–2021) and held the roles of Acting Secretary General and Director of Research at OPEC (2000–2006).
1993 to 1995: Senior Economist and Program Manager for Energy Efficiency and Economic Development, a program initiated by ACEEE.
Shihab-Eldin is currently an adjunct professor at the Executive Academy of the Vienna University of Economics and Business (WU), and continues to teach, deliver invited lectures, and publish research on energy policy, technology, and economics.
Again published by Carlyle, Currie argued that the shifting security landscape is driving economies to prioritise defense investment, and projected that incremental direct investment across Europe in defense and adjacent infrastructure could reach €9 trillion over the next decade.
Jeremy Rifkin joined Maros Sefcovic, vice president of the European Commission, and Markku Markkula, president of the European Committee of the Regions, in a presentation of the smart city and smart region agenda across the European Union.
He led EDF's research and policy advocacy on climate change in the United States and globally until 2021.
For example, in his view the "cash for clunkers" program—which offered rebates to people who bought a new car with better mileage than their old one—did little to save energy, although it may have reduced air pollution.
His research focuses on the development and application of energy-economy-emissions models that simulate the likely effects of sustainable energy policies.
Position on energy Smil is skeptical that there will be a rapid transition to clean energy, believing it will take much longer than many predict.
He is a senior member of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) that was awarded a share of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with Al Gore.
From 2001 to 2006, he was Director of Research and Acting Secretary General at the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
Shah led the office in administering loans to clean energy technologies significantly advancing the Biden Administration's efforts to bring clean energy into the United States.
Shihab-Eldin was Director General of the Kuwait Institute for Scientific Research (KISR) and served as a faculty member and Vice Rector for Academic Affairs at Kuwait University.
He added that the "industrial emissions associated with the production of electricity (126 Mt) and oil and gas (153 Mt)" produced for "domestic consumption, not exports." In the mass media Leach is a contributing writer for Maclean's and The Globe and Mail.
Laitner is the former Director of Economic and Social Analysis for the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy (ACEEE).
He also remarked that the two-degree target was set without reference to the costs of meeting the target.
Later, Georgescu-Roegen introduced the term 'bioeconomics' (short for 'biological economics') to describe his view that man's economic struggle is a continuation of the biological struggle.
In 1984 two Pentagon officials spoke at a LaRouche rally in Virginia; a Defense Department spokesman said the Pentagon viewed LaRouche's group as a "conservative group ...
He was a guest researcher at the World Bank, VVS Tekniska Foereningen, the OECD, and the Stockholm Environment Institute.
Social impact Brochu is actively involved with Centraide of Greater Montreal, and also chairs the board of directors of the Fondation Forces Avenir, a student support organization in the community.
Viewpoints and research Yergin's articles and op-eds on energy, history, and the economy have been published in a variety of publications, including The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, Foreign Affairs, The Washington Post, the Financial Times, and Forbes.
LaRouche wrote that, while in the conscientious objector camp, he discussed Marxism, and while traveling home on the SS General Bradley in 1946, he met Donald Merrill, a fellow soldier, also from Lynn, who converted him to Trotskyism.
He has received the Distinguished Service Award from the Federal Energy Administration (1975), the Adelman-Frankel Award from the United States Association for Energy Economics (2007), and the Outstanding Contribution Award from the International Association for Energy Economics (2008).
The production process and the flow-fund model Georgescu-Roegen's model of the economy grew out of his dissatisfaction with neoclassical production theory as well as the input-output model of the economy, developed by Nobel Prize laureate Wassily Leontief.
Weitzman was a leading economist whose research was focused largely on environmental economics, specifically climate change and the economics of catastrophes.
He has been an invited speaker in more than 300 conferences and workshops in the US, Canada, Europe, Asia and Africa, has lectured at many universities in North America, Europe and East Asia and has worked as a consultant for many US, European Union and international institutions.
1984: Schiller Institute, television spots, contact with Reagan administration Helga Zepp-LaRouche founded the Schiller Institute in Germany in 1984.
[...] But there is good reason to question the fairness of Rifkin's angriest assaults on scientists as mad magicians and unethical disciples of Dr.
In the mid-1970s, while a post-doctoral fellow, he began to take a particular interest in energy in his writing.
The Economist cited Leach's statistics in its January 1, 2011 article "Muck and brass: Canada's tar sands", which compared statements from a number of environmentalists, academics, and oil industry players, including the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers (CAPP).
Some climate scientists and commentators were disappointed with the Nobel Prize going to Nordhaus due to his embrace of substantially lower carbon taxes per ton than most scientists, along with his past history of arguing for low carbon taxes.
Tol regularly participates in studies of the Energy Modeling Forum, was an editor of Energy Economics, associate editor of Environmental and Resource Economics, and a member of the editorial board of Environmental Science and Policy, and Integrated Assessment.
References External links Official website George Kerevan Column The Scotsman Profile at Parliament of the United Kingdom Contributions in Parliament at Hansard Voting record at Public Whip Record in Parliament at TheyWorkForYou
He has published books and articles in the fields of global environmental protection and energy economics, the theory of the firm, and economic history.
Rifkin is the author of 23 books about the influence of scientific and technological changes on the economy, the workforce, society, and the environment.
At Western Washington University, he served as dean of the College of Business and Economics from 2013 to 2016 before gaining his professorship.
Pindyck's most recent research has been related to how government policy can address potential global catastrophic events, such as major pandemics, nuclear or bio-terrorism, or a climate catastrophe.
He has also been interviewed about energy policy and international politics on various television programs.
"Best bids guaranteed, Observing microeconomic theory can avoid collusion at government auctions" (PDF).
The degree to which the corrected, more pessimistic results alter the original conclusions and their policy implications was hotly debated.
While there he played "a leading role in helping to shape the group's advocacy on domestic and international climate policy." As an expert on environmental policy, Keohane testified before various committees of the United States House of Representatives.
The Institute has received support of the US National Security Archives and the historian's office of the Department of Energy.
Views According to a scientific paper of van den Bergh, degrowth is often seen as an ambiguous concept due to its various interpretations, which can lead to confusion rather than a clear and constructive debate on environmental policy.
Arturo Lorenzoni (born September 19, 1966) is an Italian academic, researcher, and politician, known for his significant contributions to energy economics, particularly in electricity markets and renewable energy.
Jeremy Rifkin (born January 26, 1945) is an American economic and social theorist, writer, public speaker, political advisor, and activist.
He is the past president of the Association of Environmental Studies and Sciences (AESS), an independent interdisciplinary professional association in higher education.
Keohane then became Director of Economic Policy and Analysis and then Chief Economist at Environmental Defense Fund.
In addition to his PhD students, he supervised the Master’s theses that were the first research of prominent economists including Professors Eric Budish, Jon Levin and Shengwu Li.
In return for dismissal of the charges, Weitzman agreed to pay the farmer $600 and to make an additional $300 charitable donation in lieu of performing community service.
It will not be necessary, or even possible, for materials recycling to form its own separate and continuous flow to be of use – only, the waste baskets in question have to be large enough to compensate for the rate and the efficiency of the recycling effort.
Inslee's major opponents in the election were State Senator Phil Fortunato, Republic, Washington police chief Loren Culp, Yakima physician Raul Garcia, activist Tim Eyman and former Bothell mayor Joshua Freed.
Career Broadman served as a consultant on energy security at the Rand Corporation in 1979 and from 1980 to 1981 he was a research fellow at the Brookings Institution.
Stobaugh he co-authored and co-edited Energy Future: The Report of the Energy Project at the Harvard Business School in 1979.
At his express request, his ashes were brought to Romania and deposited at Bellu Cemetery, in the sector reserved for academics.
He advised the US Federal Trade Commission 1999–2001, was a member of the UK Competition Commission from 2001–2005, and remains on its Panel of Economic Advisors.
Polenske, "KICKING AWAY INDUSTRIAL POLICY MYTHS— A Response to Ha-Joon Chang’s Plenary Paper", 2009-06-22 Karen R.
Department of State, where he was initially executive assistant to the Undersecretary for Economic Affairs.
Yergin's articles and op-eds on energy, history, and the economy have been published in publications such as The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, The Washington Post, and the Financial Times.
In 2003 he became CNBC's global energy expert, which he continued to do for a decade, and in September 2011 he appeared on The Colbert Report to discuss wind and solar power.
Biography Born in 1929 in Baghdad to Jafar Mohamad al-Chalabi and Fatima née al -Uzri, Chalabi studied law at Baghdad University and graduated in 1951 before gaining a PhD in economics from the University of Paris.
In his paper, van den Bergh highlights that a focus solely on reducing consumption (or consumption degrowth) may lead to rebound effects.
Goldman Sachs Currie joined Goldman Sachs in 1996, where he became managing director in 2002 before being named Global Head of Commodities Research in 2006, and a partner in 2008.
In 1997–2001, he worked for the natural monopoly regulator of Russia, the Federal Energy Commission of Russia, serving in 1999–2001 as the head of its economic analysis department.
Career and research Levinson began his career as a public finance economist, studying the role of government in the U.
Income, Wealth, and the Maximum Principle is a book geared to advanced economic students, particularly those who want to be able to formulate and solve complex allocation problems and who are interested in the relationship between income accounting and wealth or welfare.
He has been an Associate Professor of Applied Economics at the University of Padova since 2006, specializing in energy economics and electricity market economics.
Controversy In 2013, the PhD thesis of one of his students was withdrawn one day before the scheduled defence.
Stephen Thomas is a professor at the University of Greenwich Business School, working in the area of energy policy.
In 1972, Nordhaus, along with fellow Yale economics professor James Tobin, published, "Is Growth Obsolete?", an article that introduced the Measure of Economic Welfare (MEW), or Index of Sustainable Economic Welfare (ISEW), as the first attempt to develop environmental accounting.
Rockler, "Ideal or Not Ideal Interregional Input-Output Accounts and Model", SAGE Journals, 2013-01-01 Karen R.
He worked as a renewable energy economist with the Energy Information Administration of the United States Department of Energy in Washington, DC, then returned to San Diego in 1996 to work as a City Council aide to councilmember Valerie Stallings.
Later still, Turner's taxonomy of 'weak' and 'strong' sustainability was integrated into ecological economics.
He has been cited as an authority on the social cost of carbon in media outlets like Bloomberg News, the Financial Times, and The New York Times, and published commentaries on it in Barron's.
Nordhaus graduated from Phillips Academy in Andover and subsequently received his BA and MA from Yale in 1963 and 1972, respectively, where he was a member of Skull and Bones.
Tax Waste, Not Work (with Jeff Hamond, principal author, and Peggy Duxbury, Alan Sanstad, and Christopher Stinson).
This included a recent study that showed how inventories link futures and spot prices, so that futures price speculation can have very limited (if any) impact on spot prices.
He has written chapters in books like South Asia in the Era of Globalisation: Trade, Industrialisation and Welfare; Economic Impact of Fiji's Sugar Industry, CGE Modelling and Behaviour of J-Curve.
From 2006 to 2008, he was chief energy economist at Lehman Brothers, where he argued the oil price rises of 2007 and 2008 were an unsustainable bubble.
This was in connection with an alleged scheme also involving fellow City Council members Ralph Inzunza and Charles L.
Keith, 2009, "Anticipating public attitudes to underground CO2 storage," International Journal of Greenhouse Gas Control.
He served on the editorial boards of five major journals and was a member of the Swedish Board for Transportation and Communications Research.
Biography Tainter studied anthropology at the University of California, Berkeley and Northwestern University, where he received his Ph.D.
Keynote speaker, 2002 World Congress of Environmental Economists Keynote speaker, 2006 World Congress of Animal Geneticists Works Books Weitzman wrote three books: The Share Economy: Conquering Stagflation; Income, Wealth, and the Maximum Principle; and Climate Shock, jointly with Gernot Wagner.
He went on to do his graduate work at M.I.T., where he completed a master's degree in electrical engineering in 1967 and a PhD in economics in 1971.
Jaccard, 2012, "Statistical simulation to estimate uncertain behavioral parameters of hybrid energy-economy models," Environmental Modeling and Assessment.
But devious means compromise good ends, and we shall have to save Rifkin's humane conclusion from his own lamentable tactics.
The book was adapted into a PBS/BBC series seen by around 100 million viewers both domestically and internationally, with Yergin as the principal storyteller.
He is the former Global Head of Commodities Research in the Global Investment Research Division at Goldman Sachs.
He served for more than a decade on the External Advisory Council of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory and was among the founding members of the International Association for Energy Economics.
Birol was named on the Time 100 list of the world's most influential people in 2021 and again in 2026, has been named by Forbes magazine among the most influential people on the world's energy scene and recognised by the Financial Times in 2017 as Energy Personality of the Year.
He taught introductory environmental science courses among other subjects dealing with energy, atmospheric change, China, population and economic development.
He was co-founder of EMBARQ, the World Resources Institute Center for Sustainable Transport, and remained as a senior associate emeritus.
Some of his arguments can seem counterintuitive, such that under current auto regulations people who don't drive much can reduce national gasoline consumption -- and pollution -- by purchasing gas guzzlers instead of more fuel-efficient cars.
Lyndon LaRouche said that Kuznetsov was one of the first to understand the principles of physical economics.
He also provides technical support for a variety of local governments in the development of energy and climate profiles, especially as they positively shape and enhance long-term Sustainable Development Goals.
In 2023, he was appointed to the Board of Sponsors of the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, founded by Albert Einstein.
Early life Morse was born in New York City and graduated from Johns Hopkins University (B.A., 1963; M.A., 1966).
Newell took a leave of absence from the university when he was confirmed by the Senate as the seventh administrator of the U.S.
He was awarded MS and PhD degrees in decision science from Harvard University's Division of Applied Sciences.
In 1986, Martin engaged then-Governor and future President Bill Clinton in a debate before the United States Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources on the merits of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's powers to set interstate electricity rates.
Such an approach would also allow governments to more precisely calculate the rate at which welfare and other forms of aid should be increased.
Personal life Zucchet lives in the Ocean Beach area of San Diego with his wife Teresa and his two children.
In 2001, Morse chaired a task force on energy security, sponsored jointly by the Council on Foreign Relations and the James A.
Brochu graduated in economics from Laval University, and she began her career in 1987 at the Société québécoise d'initiatives pétroles (SOQUIP), a state-owned company of the Government of Quebec.
Chinese translation published in 1990 by Liaoning Publishing House, Shenyang, Liaoning Province, China.
He works on industrial economics, competition policy, auction theory, and climate change economics and policy.
Academic research His primary academic research interests include climate change policy, energy policy including oil sands regulation and innovations and policies related to clean energy.
Awards and honors He is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada (Science Academy) and the recipient of the American Association for the Advancement of Science Award for Public Understanding of Science and Technology in 2000.
Three years later, LaRouche blamed his criminal indictment on the NSC, saying he had been in conflict with Oliver North over LaRouche's opposition to the Nicaraguan Contras.
Past work includes dematerialization and recycling, ecological-economic modelling, construction of aggregate economic and environmental performance indicators, the growth-versus-environment debate, and spatial/international aspects of environmental policy.
In July 2003, Currie was selected as one of eight leading gas and energy executives by the United States House Committee on Energy and Commerce to discuss the natural gas supply-demand imbalance that was occurring at the time.
In March 2007, Currie authored a Goldman Sachs report title Food, Feed and Fuel, which argued the demand pull from food, feed and fuel represented the beginning of a structural increase in prices.
Research work Stephen Thomas is professor at the University of Greenwich Business School, and has been a researcher in the area of energy policy for over twenty-five years.
Career Early career Prior to joining Goldman Sachs, Currie taught undergraduate and graduate level courses in microeconomics and econometrics at The University of Chicago and served as the associate editor of Resource and Energy Economics.
Career He taught international relations at Princeton University's Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs from 1969 to 1975.
Education Shihab-Eldin received all his academic degrees from the University of California, Berkeley: a B.Sc.
An internal investigation at the VU determined that some of these papers were recycled versions of yet earlier papers, with other co-authors, who had not been cited properly and this might be considered a form of plagiarism.
He asserted that he was not alone in making this assessment, claiming that half of the simulations arrived at the same conclusion.
He was awarded the Daniel Patrick Moynihan Prize Archived July 12, 2021, at the Wayback Machine by the American Academy of Political and Social Science in 2020.
2000s–2010s His 2002 book The Commanding Heights: The Battle for the World Economy, written with Joseph Stanislaw, described in narrative form the struggle over the "frontier" between governments and markets and the rise of globalization.
Pobisk Georgievich Kuznetsov (Russian: Побиск Георгиевич Кузнецов; May 18, 1924, in Krasnoyarsk – December 4, 2000) was a Soviet Russian philosopher and scientist (chemist).
As Roman agricultural output slowly declined and population increased, per-capita energy availability dropped.
Tainter argues that sustainability or collapse of societies follow from the success or failure of problem-solving institutions and that societies collapse when their investments in social complexity and their energy subsidies reach a point of diminishing marginal returns.
According to Christopher Toumey, LaRouche's charismatic authority within the movement was grounded on members' belief that he possessed a unique level of insight and expertise.
Laitner was responsible for analysis and development of policy options for a variety of energy, climate change, and air pollution problems.
He collaborated on state programs for reforming the country's gas industry, electric power industry, and railway transport, and proposed a reform project for Gazprom, which was rejected by Vladimir Putin.
Polenske, Roberto Guerrero Compeán, "Antagonistic bioenergies: Technological divergence of the ethanol industry in Brazil", Elsevier, 2011-11-01 Karen R.
Leach calls for a "level playing field that discourages more emissions, no matter where they come from" but does not "demonize" the oil sands.
Ross is an energy economist and the Executive Chairman and Head of Global Oil for PIRA, an international energy analytics firm, where he oversees short-, medium-, and long-term oil market forecasts.
In 2005 she became a lifetime Regional Science Association International (RSAI) Fellow, in recognition to significant scholarly and research contributions to the field of regional science.
References External links Official website for Peter Tertzakian's Energyphile Campbell, Colin (June 2009).
He held numerous visiting appointments and research fellowships across the continents, and served as editor of a range of academic journals, including the Econometrica.
Dunn attended California State University, Long Beach for his Bachelor of Science degree in business administration, California State University, Bakersfield for his Master of Business Administration, and Indiana University Bloomington for his Doctor of Philosophy.
Polenske, Xin Li, Zhiyu Chen, "Land Recycling in China and its Implication for the Regional Economy", AISRe-Associazione Italiana di Scienze Regionali, 2011-01-01 Karen R.
Harry Gerard Broadman (born December 23, 1954, in New York City) is an international investment executive and global business strategist; an authority on trade, antitrust, corporate governance, sustainability, and innovation; and a non-executive corporate director.
In 1998, he contributed with some nineteen other academics to a joint project of the United Nations Environment Programme at his home university.
Upon the resignation of New York governor Andrew Cuomo on August 23, 2021, Inslee became the longest-serving current governor in the United States.
With Yergin as president, the energy research and consulting firm was created as a "quasi think-tank and source of energy industry analysis." Yergin is arguably best known for his fourth book, The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money, and Power (1991).
While there he was a member of the faculty of the School of International and Public Affairs, Columbia University, and he wrote Climate Shock (2015), a book emphasizing the importance of risk and uncertainty for prompting action on climate change.
People-Centered Initiatives for Increasing Energy Savings Archived 2013-03-07 at the Wayback Machine, Karen Ehrhardt-Martinez and John A.
Jaccard, 2014, "Does climate policy require well-informed citizen support?" Global Environmental Change.
Geoengineering Wagner was the founding co-director, joint with David Keith, of Harvard's Solar Geoengineering Research Program founded in 2017 as an interfaculty research initiative.
His most recent books include The Age of Resilience (2022), The Green New Deal (2019), The Zero Marginal Cost Society (2014), The Third Industrial Revolution (2011), The Empathic Civilization (2010), and The European Dream (2004).
According to him, environmental policy should not be aimed at pursuing or avoiding growth in the hope of reducing environmental damage, but at direct deployment of effective instruments such as pricing externalities (for example, via carbon taxes or emission rights).
She became an assistant professor at Stanford University in 2011, and a researcher for the National Bureau of Economic Research in 2012.
He was elected John Thomson Fellow and tutor of St Catherine's College, Oxford in 1984, and a professorial fellow of Nuffield College, Oxford in 1995, when he became Edgeworth Professor of Economics in succession to Nobel Prize winner James Mirrlees.
Such complexity requires a substantial "energy" subsidy, meaning the consumption of resources, or other forms of wealth.
Saeed Moshiri (born 1957) is an Iranian economist and Professor of Economics at the University of Saskatchewan.
Monrad Professor of Economics at Harvard University and remained in this position until his death in 2019.
Newell later joined Duke University as the Gendell Professor of Energy and Environmental Economics at the Nicholas School of the Environment.
Although Georgescu-Roegen never formally enrolled in any economics classes, this was how he became an economist: "Schumpeter turned me into an economist ...
He was associate editor of The Scotsman from 2000 to 2009, and was the chief executive of What If Productions (Television).
He also submitted a written statement to a Ways and Means Committee hearing on "Policy Options to Prevent Climate Change".
Robert Stephen Pindyck ( PIN-dyke; born January 5, 1945) is an American economist, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Professor of Economics and Finance in the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
LaRouche acknowledged in 1980 that his followers impersonated reporters and others, saying it had to be done for his security.
Professional engagements Lorenzoni co-founded Galileia S.r.l., a spin-off company from the University of Padova that focused on renewable energy and energy efficiency from 2008 to 2020.
He was "often a critic of the conventional wisdom." He was remembered by climate scientists as "a giant" who "was brilliant at articulating the connections among technology, economics, culture, policy and politics." Education Schipper attended the University of California at Berkeley.
For example, in the case of pollution, the relative slopes of marginal costs and marginal damages must be examined (the marginal benefits are the avoidance of the marginal damages).
His expertise includes benefit-cost assessments, behavioral assessments, resource costs and constraints, and the net employment and macroeconomic impacts of energy and climate policy scenarios.
from Yale University in 1968, where he wrote for the Yale Daily News and was founder of The New Journal in 1967.
Contributions on economics of climate change Nordhaus has written on the economics of climate change.
Inslee was "one of Congress's most ardent advocates of strong action to combat global warming," according to The New York Times.
Academic contributions His 1985 papers (with Jeremy Bulow and John Geanakoplos) developed the concept – and invented the terminology – of "strategic complements" that is now commonly used in game theory, industrial organisation and elsewhere.
Daly later went on to become a leading ecological economist as well as the economics profession's most faithful, persistent and influential proponent of the economics of Georgescu-Roegen.
He later held research and teaching positions at Kuwait University, the University of California, Berkeley, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Harvard University, and CERN.
Originally a project of Samuelson's alone, Nordhaus worked on the textbook from the 12th edition until the 19th (the most recent edition), starting in 1985.
While at Harvard he produced two major books: Middle Eastern Capitalism: Nine essays (1959) and The Economy of Cyprus (1962) Myers was chief of mission for the Special U.S.
With the passing of both bills (IRA and BIL) from Congress under the Biden Administration, Shah managed $400 billion of loan authority intended to commercialize emerging technologies, support clean energy job creation, and stimulate local economies.
He has authored several books on energy, environment, and national security through MIT Press (two books), McGraw-Hill, Trilateral Commission, United States Department of Energy, and the International Energy Agency.
Polenske, Ning Ai, "Socioeconomic Impact Analysis of Yellow-dust Storms: An Approach and Case Study for Beijing", Routledge, 2008-06-01 Karen R.
Hence, a lot of material equipment is needed as inputs at the surface of the earth to collect, concentrate and (when convenient) store or transform the radiation before it can be put to use on a larger industrial scale.
In May 2016, De Volkskrant reported that the Public Prosecuter sought to prosecute the anonymous complainant.
He focuses on developing a more robust technology and behavioral characterization of energy efficiency resources for use in energy and climate economic policy models.
Post-Goldman Career In August 2023, Goldman Sachs announced that Currie was leaving the company after 27 years, stating that he had “played a significant role in strengthening our commodities franchise”.
He has also worked (with Elizabeth Baldwin) on applying tropical geometry to economics and auctions, including the Product Mix auction.
He published several theoretical studies of resource exploration and depletion, including the role of uncertainty.
His books examine economic, environmental and geopolitical pressures on the transformation of the global energy sector.
Jaccard, 2011, "Intensity-based climate change policies in Canada," Canadian Public Policy, V36(4), 409–428.
It became a number-one bestseller that won the Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction in 1992 and the Eccles Prize for the best book on economics for a general audience, selling around 700,000 copies in 17 languages.
He participated in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that shared the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize.
Weitzman's past research was focused on fixed versus profit sharing wages and their effect on unemployment.
Goldberg, 2013, "Technology assumptions and climate policy: The interrelated effects of US electricity-transport policy in EMF 24 using CIMS-US." The Energy Journal.
He addressed peak oil in a chapter in The Quest entitled "Is the World Running Out of Oil?" and in a 2011 essay published in The Wall Street Journal.
Zucchet has also done work with the non-profit Environmental Defense Center in Santa Barbara while in college.
"If you're asking how their policy is developed – if there is an inside group sitting down and making plans – no, it doesn't work that way ...
In 2021 Parker won an ISS Practical Impacts Award, which recognizes outstanding leadership and sustained impact on the information systems industry.
Members all over the world sent information to NCLC headquarters, which would distribute the information via briefings and other publications.
He has also invented new auction designs, including the "Product Mix Auction" that is now in regular use by the Bank of England (currently used monthly).
San Diego City Council Michael Zucchet served as a San Diego city councilmember representing the city's Second District.
And in 2025, a Harvard Business Review article Parker co-authored, “Pipelines, Platforms, and the New Rules of Strategy,” was included in “The Definitive HBR Strategy Glossary.” References External links Official website Platform Revolution Articles available for download at SSRN
In Harvard's Faculty of Arts and Sciences Economics Department he taught international business investment.
The complainant was said to have significantly damaged the doctoral candidate’s career through defamation and slander.
Weitzman also served as a consultant to The World Bank, Stanford Research Institute, International Monetary Fund, Agency for International Development, Arthur D.
According to the climate change models Nordhaus has developed, sectors of the economy that depend heavily on unmanaged ecosystems–that is, are heavily dependent upon naturally occurring rainfall, runoff, or temperatures–will be most sensitive to climate change, generally.
His early work was on cost-benefit analysis, and the economics of pollution and natural resource depletion, before these ideas entered the mainstream of the economic sciences and policymaking.
Economist Jason Russell, currently the managing editor of Reason magazine, interrogated his analysis of why green building codes often don't save energy.
He participated in the meeting that drafted the Potsdam Memorandum to the 2007 UN Climate Change Conference in Bali; he is on the Environmental Economics Academic Panel to the UK's Department of the Environment (Defra).
He is known for setting out valuation techniques for natural phenomena, arguing that the environment is "under-priced" and that the benefit of environmental services may be calculated.
Siri Nippita, a gynecologist at NYU Langone Medical Center and the chief of the family planning division as well as the director of Reproductive Choice at Bellevue Hospital.
Publishing history Books as author Shattered Peace: The Origins of the Cold War and the National Security State.
His interdisciplinary research interests encompass energy, environmental, food, population, economic, historical and public policy studies.
may explain how emissions can decline despite increased manufacturing output." Technology journalist Brad Plumer covered Levinson's research into California's energy use.
Lawmakers critiqued the haste with which the budget was considered and passed, having received the 616-page document only that day.
His analysis of electricity market design gained prominence following the 2000–2001 California electricity crisis.
Although he did reside in his native country, Georgescu-Roegen would later refer to this period of his life as his Romanian 'exile': The exile was an intellectual one for him.
He currently serves on the Scientific Steering Committee for the US Carbon Cycle Program and the Advisory Committee for Princeton University Carbon Mitigation Initiative.
Energy resources, on the other hand, cannot be so transformed, as it is physically impossible to turn energy into matter, and matter is what man-made capital is made up of physically.
She is the first woman to have held the position of President and CEO of Hydro-Québec between 2020 and 2023.
Tol was a coordinating lead author of the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report Working Group II, contributing to the economics chapter.
Nordhaus has also written several books on global warming and climate change, one of his primary areas of research.
Pindyck's teaching and research focuses on market structure, financial economics, environmental, resource, and energy economics, the role of uncertainty on investment decisions and policy formulation, and economic policy generally.
In that capacity, he was responsible for a range of benefit-cost assessments of energy policies as they affect both climate and energy policies and the macroeconomy, including energy prices, net employment, and gross domestic product (GDP) impacts.
Newell holds an MPA from the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs, as well as a BS in materials engineering and a BA in philosophy from Rutgers University.
First term: 2013–2017 During the 2013 session, the legislature failed to create a fiscal budget plan during the initial session, and Inslee was forced to call two special sessions to provide time for a budget to be created.
Inslee became the first Washington governor elected to a third term since Dan Evans was reelected in 1972.
It has been argued that the UK Treasury owes £15 billion or more to him and Ken Binmore, who led the auction team.
Shah argues that, while new technical innovation is valuable, deployment of existing technologies are the key to reaching our near-term climate targets.
He has been cited in The New York Times on the impacts of the US withdrawal from the Paris Agreement and the impacts of Trump administration energy policy.
He has been described by former US Secretary of Energy Steven Chu as "a leading expert on the economics of energy and environmental markets, policies, and technologies." Early life and education Newell earned a Ph.D.
Early life Born in Reno, Nevada, Currie attended Sprague High School in Salem, Oregon, before attending Pepperdine University, in Malibu, California, where he obtained a Bachelor of Arts Economics in December 1987.
The Secretary General of the United Nations BAN Ki-Moon recognized Martin’s eight years of distinguished service on the Board of the UN University for Peace, including Martin’s tenure as President of the Council of the University.
According to RePEc, in October 2025 van den Bergh was ranked #10 among the 2,794 economists of Spain.
Hal Varian, a former Chief Economist at Google, called Platform Revolution "an authoritative guide to the role of online platforms." Early life and education Geoffrey Parker was born in Dayton, Ohio.
The Eastern Roman Empire, bordered as it was by the Parthian/Sassanid Empire, did not have the option of devolving into simpler, smaller entities.
Leon Jay "Lee" Schipper (April 7, 1947 – August 16, 2011) was a physicist and energy efficiency expert who authored more than 100 technical papers and a number of books on energy economics and transportation.
Vickers retained machine guns and other restricted weapons in his personal collection, knowing the filed forms were fraudulent, and transferred other machine guns and restricted weapons to other FFLs and third parties.
His work has received both support and criticism, particularly from some conservative evangelical communities who disagree with his interpretations.
Early life and education Tomines attended the University of Waterloo, where he received his undergraduate degree in Biomedical Science.
The Order of the Good Death is Doughty's way of creating a community while teaching individuals to accept death.
The product was ultimately never released, with security concerns noted in a Kickstarter post ending the project, with Xyla returning to finish her university degree and subsequently published a description for how to build a do it yourself Parihug.
The article revealed details of her personal life, which drew criticism from Wu and from others because according to her agreement with Vice, such details should have been left out of the article, out of fear of retaliation by the Chinese government and also to protect her own private life.
YouTube channel health related podcast In September 2022, Varshavski launched a health related podcast on his YouTube channel named "The Checkup Podcast with Doctor Mike", which was renamed to "The Checkup with Doctor Mike".
Science communication While searching for a better work-life balance than that provided in research and academia, Macdonald found opportunities to still teach through a combination of conducting introductory courses and speaking at science fiction conventions.
Awards and nominations Notes References External links Official website NileRed's channel on YouTube
Kurzgesagt acknowledged they had presented one argument as fact, and had not considered other theories on the matter.
His family life is closely connected to his career, and he occasionally brings his children aboard his boat to share the experience.
In 2016 the Czech edition of Forbes featured Rubeš in their 30 under 30 list: 30 of the most talented Czechs under 30 years old.
During his early days as a YouTuber, he often recorded videos while walking through neighborhoods, or hiking, discussing general topics with a scientific and educational perspective.
Career One of the first sightings of the Mediterranean red bug in North America was recorded by Peltz, who was then working as a middle school science teacher.
Learning Processing : A Beginner's Guide to Programming Images, Animation, and Interaction (2nd ed.).
As detailed in his plea agreement, from June 2018 to March 2021 Vickers, allegedly with cooperation from Sean Reidpath Sullivan and Matthew Jeremy Hall imported machine guns and other restricted firearms under ATF Form 6 by falsely representing them as items for police department demonstration use.
The podcast covers subjects related to sexual health, mental health, physical health, and social health.
In January 2015, she defended her thesis in Earth sciences, entitled "Prediction of terrestrial convective structures", before training in scientific communication at the Institut de la communication et des médias [Fr] in Grenoble.
He has expressed a desire to pass on his knowledge and tradition to his children, while leaving the choice of pursuing lobstering to them.
They made their relationship public online in 2014, two years after starting their channel, in response to derogatory comments and in order to be visible role models for young gay people interested in science.
In 2014, he won the prize of "Person of the Year" in the 7th edition of Maroc Web Awards, Creativity category.
Vsauce3 has collaborated with YouTubers Joe Hanson from It's Okay to be Smart and Vanessa Hill from BrainCraft.
Huang is known for his "Song Challenge" series, an extension of the idea behind Songs to Wear Pants To, in which Huang takes on musical challenges submitted by viewers via social media.
Huang's channel is known for a wide variety of musical genres, influences, and projects, often thematically focused.
It is very, very hard, as any teacher will tell you, to unlearn something that makes you comfortable and makes you feel smart, but Mr.
Educational career Until 2021, Beat was a high school social studies teacher, teaching at Blue Valley High School in Overland Park, Kansas and eventually Tonganoxie High School in Tonganoxie, Kansas.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, he started "Week Week" in the Kirkland House with his friends, promoting creative methods to bring residents together.
Scott has also collaborated with other YouTubers, including his Tom Scott plus channel, several comedy series with The Technical Difficulties, and the brain-teaser podcast Lateral.
In 2025 she founded Physical Phones to manufacture and sell retro-style Bluetooth desk phones modeled on her own setup.
The most viewed video of the channel as of September 2024 is Do You Hear "Yanny" or "Laurel"?, which has 66 million views.
The episodes are released on Nebula one week earlier than YouTube, which has caused large spikes to Nebula's usage traffic in the past.
Products in the line include acne cleanser and lotion, clarifying treatment with retinol, and daily moisturizer.
On his self-titled YouTube channel, active since 2014, Scott creates educational videos across a range of topics including history, geography, linguistics, science, and technology.
His older brother, Marek Hoffman, is also a youtuber, operating the channel AdBuster, where he posts videos about brand management, product reviews, and vlogs.
She also started a joint podcast with YouTube medical popularizer Sandra Ortonobes (La Hiperactina), titled Tú de ciencias y yo de letras.
He later worked for four years at Apple as a product designer in their Special Projects Group, where he authored patents involving virtual reality in self-driving cars.
Foreman's family is Jewish, and in a statement written for the London Jewish News in 2018, he described his fondness for his family's Jewish traditions, even though Foreman himself is an atheist.
Early life Mason received a BSc (2:1) (1993) and PhD (1997) in chemistry from the University of Birmingham.
To think it does lends itself to a hyper-adaptive view of life." References External links Reich, Henry.
Vickers has an affinity for Rhodesia, and in 2017 posted a photo of a Rhodesian FAL with the caption "It's time to slot floppies.
Various media outlets have highlighted her significant following on YouTube, Instagram, and TikTok, where she has received attention for her posts aiming to educate young people about sexual health.
In mid 2024, the Awesome Coffee Club rebranded to "Keats and Co." as they began selling tea as well as coffee with a similar philosophy.
I am so proud and pleased that The Brain Scoop and Emily have found what is absolutely their best possible home." Another educational channel, Mental Floss, based on the magazine of the same name, was launched in February 2013.
In an interview with The New York Times, he said that each video takes him four to five hours to make, writing a full script and searching Google Scholar for academic papers to include as screenshots.
Vizel struggled from a young age to fit in in the community, noting in 2022 that "the female space was very suffocating" to her.
The show's format has since been modified into short documentaries exclusive to the streaming service Nebula with the same concept.
Following his studies Bonnet worked as an executive in the field of research and development at the company Sika-Trocal.
Stevens realized that his most popular content tended to incorporate more serious real-world concepts, often exhibiting interdisciplinarity.
On 23 October 2015, Furze released a video showing off the start of a new multi-part build, in which he would construct a Hidden Blade to promote the new Ubisoft game, Assassin's Creed: Syndicate.
Daniel Shiffman (born July 29, 1973) is a computer programmer, a member of the Board of Directors of the Processing Foundation, and an Associate Arts Professor at the Interactive Telecommunications Program (ITP) at New York University Tisch School of the Arts.
On the topic, Hank has stated, "There are problems with the institutions of dreams, [but] I am in favor of them.
The educational segments became more popular, and since September 9, 2012, only the educational segment (known as DOT.) has been presented.
She was awarded an Aurora Astronomy Scholarship that enabled her to take an overseas trip to NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Caltech, Carnegie Observatory, UCLA, Macdonald Observatory Texas, University of British Columbia, NRC Observatory Victoria and CHFT Hawaii.
Foxlin was awarded the Aviation Inspiration Award from the Living Legends of Aviation in January 2026.
Petermann, "Anwenderseminar Dynamisch-Mechanische Analyse und Rheologie", ecomed Verlag, Landsberg 2000, 69–78, Hg.: H.
Every episode contains one or more experiments, in which either volunteers or Stevens himself participates, that relates to the topic of the episode.
Some of her projects are useful, while others are funny or absurd; her useful projects are usually more popular.
The paper described the podcast as having "in-depth debates and banter that is actually amusing." Grey reported a podcast listenership of approximately "a quarter million" downloads per episode as of September 2015.
Despite being raised in a Christian home, he was not openly Christian until some time before he began his musical career.
In 2021, Aleksic created an online petition to change the flag of Albany, saying that the flag was poorly designed by vexillology standards and was also linked to the Dutch Nazi Party and other white supremacist organizations.
Jet Lag: The Game Denby's YouTube channel Jet Lag: The Game hosts a travel competition show created by Denby and Half as Interesting's writers, Ben Doyle (son of writer Larry Doyle) and Adam Chase.
Reeder first gained considerable media attention in 2016, after posting a video of himself drinking water containing a small, diluted amount of cyanide.
Kampf's television career began with co-hosting the competition series Schrott or Not on KiKa in 2017, and she has hosted a segment on Die Sendung mit der Maus called Lauras Machgeschichten since 2018.
The Polish Investment and Trade Agency exhibited her works in Berlin, Hamburg, Helsinki, Geneva, and Madrid to promote Polish design.
In 2021 he was nominated for the Estonian Science Communication Award as the best communicator of science and technology.
Typical topics include technology etiquette; movie and TV show reviews; plane accidents; vexillology; futurology; and the differences between Grey's and Haran's personalities and lifestyles.
Her tours focus on "the Hasidic lifestyle and the reasons behind the community’s insular nature", and she purposefully tries to avoid critique or judgment of Hasidic culture.
He won the Wiki Science Competition 2017 in the category of non-photographic media with a video of a frozen drop of water in a frigid environment.
In January 2014, Amy Wallace, another science journalist, wrote an article about how science journalists can find themselves the target of ugly personal attacks, and the attacks on female journalists include criticisms of their sexual attractiveness, and their sexual morality.
She was originally photographed "in a pressed collared shirt, slacks and matching jewelry", but felt she was misrepresenting herself; Doe returned to the shoot hours later, stripped to her underwear, and slathered herself in homemade mud to retake the photos.
The contestants are led to believe that they are competing in a social deduction game, in which one of the group has become a secret saboteur among them (much like The Mole or The Traitors), with the rest of them working collaboratively in challenges they are tasked to complete during their trip.
The live performances returned in March 2020 with a planned three-city tour including stops in Columbus, Ohio, and Carmel, Indiana, with a third performance set for Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Education Baxter completed bachelor's and master's degrees in biology at Buffalo State College in 2014 and 2016, respectively.
Foreman has no plans to bring the series back, stating that "with everything that’s going on, I now find it impossible, irresponsible even, to maintain the cheery, neutral tone that the series used to have." Map Men Map Men is an edutainment mini-series which premiered in 2016.
sanctions against JSC Kalashnikov Concern between July 2014 and March 2021, in the Southern District of Florida.
In 2017, he appeared on MythBusters: The Search as a contestant and in 2020, Pan built a gun that shoots masks onto people's faces to protect them from COVID-19.
Later, on October 29, 2021, Rober and Donaldson created #TeamSeas, another fundraiser which had a goal of $30 million.
He has discussed the physical demands and risks of lobstering, including the dangers of being caught in ropes and the challenges posed by Maine’s limited-entry licensing system.
Notable collaborations Santoro has been a special guest narrator on CinemaSins' Everything Wrong With...
In 2019, she teamed up with Sébastien Carassou for the international science film festival, and their script on paleoclimatology won the Science & Live TV – Science "shorts" prize.
In 2023, Hendy appeared on season 5 of the travel competition show Jet Lag: The Game, which was filmed in New Zealand.
"Populism, Technology and Interactivity: Review." New York Times, Lateition (East Coast) ed.: NJ.13.
He now helps students communicate mathematics to other people, speaks at schools, does media work, and occasionally writes about maths.
He received letters of encouragement from President Joe Biden and NASA administrator and former Florida Senator Bill Nelson.
He competed on the same team as Sam Denby against Adam Chase and Ben Doyle in racing to claim the most countries in the Schengen Area within six days.
In another video, Foxlin went on a cross country road trip through the southern and western United States, collecting a piece of wood from trees grown in each of the states, which she machined into wooden puzzle pieces of a map of the country.
After leaving Kiryas Joel, Vizel joined another Orthodox community, but has since left Orthodox Judaism altogether.
Several videos on the channel feature Savage donning cosplay that conceals his identity and walking across comic convention floors.
Stevens' online content attracted the interest of Ben Relles, who invited him to become a member of the online comedy group then known as Barely Political.
Turntable Health In 2012, Tony Hsieh invited Damania to visit Las Vegas, where Hsieh was in the process of investing $350 million of his own money in a project he hoped would revitalize Downtown Las Vegas (The Downtown Project).
Some of their videos are also available in French, Hindi, Arabic, Brazilian Portuguese, Japanese and Korean.
Similar experiments however, such as him drinking heavy water, "hydric acid" (tongue-in-cheek), and breathing in all the noble gases, remain available as of January 2021.
Following her graduation from UCLA, she received Suborbital Citizen Scientist Astronaut Training with Project PoSSUM.
On September 20, 2018, Roper announced he would host the YouTube Original special Could You Survive the Movies.
Career In early 2012, Varshavski joined Instagram to document his life as a medical student and combat the notion that "you can't have a life in medical school".
Business ventures Education In 2019, Huang partnered with Studio (formerly Monthly) to create a 30-day music production course called Complete Music Production.
A new branding scheme designed by Natasha Jen was adopted in December 2014 to bring a "grown-up" feel to the channels.
In April 2021, Rober and Jimmy Kimmel hosted a live stream, raising $3 million in support of NEXT for AUTISM.
Popular culture The Comedy Central game show @midnight mentioned her growing Instagram popularity during an opening segment.
He designed and delivered hardware on several JPL missions, including AMT, GRAIL, SMAP, and Mars Science Laboratory.
In 2009, the record label caught the attention of YouTube, who praised the label on its official blog.
His channel initially released video game-related content until the popularity of his educational series DOT saw discussions of general interest become the focus of Vsauce, encompassing explanations of science, philosophy, culture, and illusion.
The goal was to raise $20,000,000 for the Arbor Day Foundation by 2020, while the Arbor Day Foundation would plant one tree for each dollar raised.
It has been awarded grants by Bill Gates' bgC3, and has struck a partnership with PBS Digital Studios to continue developing more series, although the majority of its funding comes from viewer support via Patreon.
Early career In 2012, Scott was a presenter in the Sky 1 series Gadget Geeks alongside Colin Furze and Creative Technologist Charles Yarnold, where he was responsible for the creation of software solutions.
Following ten years of Cortex, CGP Grey announced a break from Cortex, with the podcast temporarily switching to an interview format.
In December 2023, Wu was named as the new maintainer of The Essential Guide to Electronics in Shenzhen, a print book that provides guidance for electronics industry business in Shenzhen and especially Huaqiangbei.
Vizel has offered tours of Williamsburg professionally since 2013, and began giving tours full time in 2017.
A fifth-generation lobsterman, he documents his work and sustainable fishing practices through videos shared on platforms like TikTok, Instagram, and YouTube, where he has amassed a following.
Nidhal Guessoum (Arabic: نضال قسوم, romanised: Niḍāl Qassūm; born September 6, 1960) is an Algerian astrophysicist.
Myers' blog were "among the two most popular secularist hubs online." Mason has used his online persona to critically examine a range of topics, including proposals to build roads surfaced with glass solar panels.
Vickers faces a maximum sentence of five years in federal prison for conspiracy to violate federal law regulating automatic firearms and a maximum of 20 years in federal prison for conspiracy to violate the International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
The costumes were widely featured on news channels such as CBS News, CNN, The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, Fox, Yahoo!
This was the fifth crewed flight operated by Blue Origin, and their 21st flight overall to reach space.
He also participated in Birthright Israel, a free ten-day trip to Israel for Jewish adults between the ages of 18 and 26.
In September 2015, Scott created a full-size emoji keyboard out of fourteen standard keyboards to type every standard Unicode emoji.
Larry Vickers is the author of the "Vickers Guide", a series of reference books that launched in 2015, detailing firearms such as the Colt AR-15, M1911, and MP 40.
Mason is a British chemist and YouTuber with the online pseudonym Thunderf00t (also VoiceOfThunder).
The modifications were performed by her, Kampf, mechanic Marcos Ramirez, and YouTuber Rich Benoit, whose channel Rich Rebuilds often featured the modification of Teslas; several other friends were informally involved.
The agents, equipped with geiger counters, did not find anything of concern, and Reeder himself said that they were only trying to help him not get in trouble in the future.
Early life and career William Henry Green II was born on May 5, 1980, to Mike and Sydney Green in Birmingham, Alabama, but his family soon moved to Orlando, Florida, where he was raised.
In 2017, Echazarreta was a research assistant at UCLA for the Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science, where she experimented with various materials to serve as both the PCB and body of the robot while maintaining electrically isolated portions.
The semimagic square Parker created uses some numbers more than once, and the diagonal 232 + 372 + 472 sums to 4107, not 3051 as for all the other rows, columns, or diagonal.
Collaborations Some people or channels Michael Stevens of Vsauce1 has collaborated with include Bill Nye, BrainCraft, Derek Muller, Good Mythical Morning, The Filthy Frank Show, and others.
Her dissertation was titled "Culturally responsive Science Communication: The messengers, messages, and voices in communicating science through Hip-Hop".
Parker has also toured the UK solo and as part of comedy group Festival of the Spoken Nerd, along with Helen Arney and Steve Mould.
In 2021, Muller hosted Pindrop, a YouTube Original series exploring unusual places around the world, as seen from Google Earth.
Usui gained attention in February 2023 for her detailed explanation of the aborted first launch attempt of the first H3 test rocket, and in March 2023 for her call to support JAXA after the failed second launch attempt.
Channel BrainCraft videos are about science, with many episodes discussing phenomena related to sleep, memory, and the science of food.
In December of that year, she created a Patreon account to receive money directly from viewers while announcing a deal with GoldieBlox to release child-appropriate edits of her videos.
The channels feature videos on scientific, psychological, mathematical, and philosophical topics, as well as gaming, technology, popular culture, and other general interest subjects.
He also held visiting professorships at the German-Jordanian University in Jordan and the Beijing University of Chemical Technology in China.
The film was scheduled to be released on May 8, 2020, after having been initially scheduled in November 2019, but was later postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic in India.
The game is often themed, and consists of five rounds of two statements each, relating to the theme, with one statement being true, and the other being false.
Crawford is a public educator on his YouTube channel where he lectures on Old Norse language and discusses literature and mythology.
The production company behind these is Pemberley Digital, which according to Hank Green's Reddit userpage, he helped co-create.
On April 8, 2024, Denby's production company, Wendover Productions, announced production on The Getaway, a reality game show which premiered exclusively on Nebula in July 2024.
In a Q&A video, he clarified that the last place he lived in before moving to the United States was the city of Donetsk in Ukraine.
Echazarreta transferred to UCLA in 2016, completing her Bachelor's degree in electrical engineering in 2019.
On International Women's Day 2017 she was listed as one of the 43 most influential women in 3D printing, a male-dominated field, by 3D Printer & 3D Printing News.
They upload videos twice a week, having “normal” episodes about a certain topic, and “field notes” episodes in which they answer viewers' questions and share things they own or have found.
Nonetheless, Green's novels have been successful, leading him to be included on Time's 2014 "100 Most Influential People" list.
Beat posts various videos on the channel relating to United States government and history - especially regarding United States presidents.
At Christmas time in 2021, along with Joe Barnard, she launched a seven foot tall Christmas tree 300 feet into the air, with a "rocket stuffed up its ...
Since 2012 Bonnet is a visiting professor at the institute for Biomechanics and Orthopaedics at German Sports University Cologne.
Prehistoric Road Trip In May 2019, Graslie announced that she would be producing and hosting a 3-hour series, on paleontology in the American Midwest, for PBS and WTTW; filming took place throughout 2019.
While at Tonganoxie High School, Beat and his students petitioned United States President Barack Obama to visit the school in 2015, but the effort was unsuccessful.
He is managing director of the Institute for Applied Materials at the Cologne University of Applied Sciences where he also teaches materials science.
in Classics and Classical Languages, Literatures, and Linguistics from Texas Tech University; an M.A.
While at university, Parker wrote comedy for Pelican, the students' magazine, and produced comedy sketches.
Foxlin's appeal to the FAA was successful in 2025 and she was issued a special medical certificate, and she subsequently flew across the continential United States in her Cessna 140.
Club and Newsweek reported on a video of him dissolving a hot dog in piranha solution, which went viral.
Awards 2022 Woman of Distinction Award from the American Association of University Women Ebony Magazine Power 100 Trailblazer in STEM 2022 Named to Forbes Magazine's 30 Under 30 in Science 2020 Named to Fortune Magazine's 40 Under 40 in Health 2018 Arthur A.
Pac Tom project In 2006, Murphy started a project of running every mile of every street in the city of Pittsburgh: over 1,500 miles in total.
He is also the co-founder of merchandise company DFTBA Records, crowdfunding platform Subbable (acquired by Patreon), game company DFTBA Games, and online video production company Pemberley Digital, which produces video blog adaptations of classic novels in the public domain.
In October 2020, Peltz joined Discovery Education as Mystery Science became a wholly owned subsidiary; Mystery Science was acquired for $140 million.
Cath in College was a vlog and blog that presented her Stanford experience in a diary-like style, showing scenes such as studying, parties and dorm life alongside reader Q&As.
His 2014 "Evolution vs Natural Selection" video on the MinutePhysics channel received criticism from the NCSE.
“It was definitely an obstacle for me to learn about a brand new culture and to learn a brand new language.
"Wipe It Down," Baxter's parody of Lil Boosie's "Wipe Me Down," contained information and safety tips related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
She transitioned to a full-time engineer at NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory as part of the Europa Clipper Ground Support Equipment group.
In April 2022, The Anthropocene Reviewed was chosen to be the 2022 common read at the University of Mississippi.
Echazarreta has spoken to Mexico's congresses Senate of the Republic and Chamber of Deputies in support of increasing STEM education for women and expanding Mexico's spaceflight program.
As revealed in a behind-the-scenes video, Moffit voices and composes the background music for the videos, while Brown is the primary illustrator.
market and fill the gap left by the sanctions against Kalashnikov Concern" named "American Kalashnikov." Vickers had met with Kalashnikov Concern executives in North Carolina and started to receive consulting fees from American Kalashnikov starting from 2014.
Early life Vizel's paternal grandfather became Satmar following the Holocaust, and her father grew up in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
He was also nominated to awards Tech Awards 2017, Popularyzator Nauki 2018, and Grand Video Awards 2022.
Early life and education Graslie earned her bachelor's degree in Studio Art from the University of Montana in 2011.
Peter Hadfield (born 1 July 1954) is a British freelance journalist, author, and geologist, who runs the YouTube channel Potholer54, which has over 200,000 subscribers.
In 2017, Muller began uploading videos on his newest channel, Sciencium, which is dedicated to videos on recent and historical discoveries in science.
His Instagram account went viral after he was featured in BuzzFeed and People magazine named him The Sexiest Doctor Alive in 2015.
Muller presented in the film Vitamania: The Sense and Nonsense of Vitamins, a documentary by Genepool Productions, released in August 2018.
He also funded 100 abortions for Ukrainian women in Poland, who were raped by Russian soldiers, citing and criticising laws which make it difficult for them to get treatment.
Her November 27, 2013, video, which addressed the situation of women in STEM fields and inappropriate comments she received on her own postings, received a high level of media attention.
Beauty and the Bolt With a classmate, she launched a 501-c(3) non-profit called Beauty and the Bolt to empower women and minorities to excel in engineering.
He later earned a Master of Science in mechanical engineering from the University of Southern California (USC) in 2014.
In November 2023, Green joined a lawsuit by Penguin Random House, the Iowa State Education Association, and fellow authors Laurie Halse Anderson, Malinda Lo, and Jodi Picoult, against the state of Iowa over a new law that banned books that depict sex acts from schools.
in curriculum, instruction, and the science of learning from the University at Buffalo, and was awarded the SUNY Chancellor's Award for Student Excellence.
AsapScience, stylized as AsapSCIENCE, is a YouTube channel created by Canadian YouTubers Mitchell Moffit and Gregory Brown.
He went to college in upstate New York, earning two degrees: one in physics and another in sociology.
Keller stated that these efforts were intended to pressure Mason to change what she considered sexist and islamophobic content on his channel.
She received a Bachelors of Science in Psychology from Texas A&M University before pursuing postgraduate medical studies at the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, where she received her Doctorate of Medicine.
Kurzgesagt made this statement in response to a December 2022 video which accused them of having been "basically bought off by billionaires".
In 2014, her channel "The Brain Scoop" was listed on New Media Rockstars Top 100 Channels, ranked at #96.
In December 2018, Rober posted a video showing how he tricked parcel thieves with an engineered contraption that sprayed glitter on the thieves, emitted a foul odor, and captured video of the thieves.
He completed all coursework towards a Master of Music at Indiana University Bloomington, but did not graduate.
The official response stated it would be too costly to replace the current signs; however, Parker said he only asked for a "precedent for the new signs".
Shiffman received a BA in Mathematics and Philosophy from Yale University and a master's degree from the ITP.
Parker has made videos about unboxing calculators, including the Little Professor; he presents these videos as a member of a fictional "Calculator Appreciation Society".
Adam Viktor Aleksic ( ə-LEK-sik; born January 3, 2001), known online as Etymology Nerd, is an American linguist and content creator who produces videos exploring the origins of words.
Hill's videos use stop motion and paper craft animation to explain neuroscience, psychology and human behavior.
Career Prior to working on YouTube, Roper used his film degree for various jobs in television and advertising.
In 2011 Mould and Parker together started MathsGear.co.uk, a website aimed at selling stuff they prepare for their mathematics shows.
Ragusea announced that he would drop from his usual 2 videos a week along with the podcast to only 1 video a week plus the podcast on December 19, 2022, in a video titled "The next phase of our relationship".
The channel was created in May 2012 and had acquired more than 7 million subscribers by March 2018, and 10 million by 2025.
Together with his brother, Marek Hoffmann, he also hosts YouTube channel Tube Raiders, where they publish travel and urban exploration vlogs, which in January 2026, had 345,000 subscribers.
BrainCraft is an educational video series on YouTube created by Australian science communicator Vanessa Hill.
He has four degrees, in law, economics, business, and sociology, including from the University of Southampton, London School of Economics, and Warwick Business School.
Stevens, in the video "A Defense of Comic Sans", notes that the text font Alsina was used by the Vsauce channels because of its close resemblance to the handwriting of Nik Guinta, the creator of the original Vsauce logo.
Since then, videos on topics such as the greenhouse effect, the age of the universe, and several on black holes have been released.
Creationism Through his YouTube account Thunderf00t, Mason produced a series of videos titled "Why do people laugh at creationists?", focusing primarily on Kent Hovind's arguments in public seminars.
Pan originally received media attention in late 2015 after uploading a viral video of him creating a real-life version of the superhero Thor's hammer Mjolnir, which only he can pick up.
'The Number of Galaxies in a Grain of Sand'), and in hobby, for the Tube Raiders video Umocnienia helskie (lit.
On December 15, 2024, a reporter for the Kyiv Independent criticized a video by Harris that attributed the Russo-Ukrainian war largely to NATO expansion.
Politics Unboringed Politics Unboringed was a series of educational YouTube videos that ran between 2015 and 2017.
His book The Wanderer's Hávamál (2019) includes the Old Norse text of the poem Hávamál with Crawford's page-facing English translation along with commentary, a few brief Old Norse texts about Odin, and the Cowboy Hávamál, which is Crawford's translation of Gestaþáttr into his grandfather's dialect.
The Rest Is Science The Rest Is Science is a podcast hosted by Michael Stevens and Professor Hannah Fry, and is about varied topics in math and science.
He collaborated with the highest-subscribed channel MrBeast in 2026, creating a video on the history of YouTube and joking about name similarities.
While at GPB, he served as the organization's Macon Bureau Chief and host of the local Morning Edition.
At the 2012 Science Online conference, the video "Mission Possible: Graphene" won the Cyberscreen Science Film Festival, and was therefore featured on Scientific American as the video of the week.
Before working with Michael Stevens under the Vsauce brand, Roper was working at Google, alongside Stevens, as well as hosting a YouTube show called Space Lab, which was a space show for kids.
Guessoum is also a columnist for Gulf News and The Huffington Post, and has made notable contributions to Nature Middle East.
She was given the British Council ELTon Award for Innovation in English language teaching in 2017 and the Entrepreneurial Award by the University of Westminster in 2018.
She began to question other aspects of community life and custom following continued pressure from the community.
Honest Guide Since 2016, he has published his most popular series Honest Guide with his cameraman friend Honza Mikulka on YouTube.
Career In 2014, Mould co-hosted ITV's I Never Knew That About Britain alongside Paul Martin and Suzannah Lipscomb.
The channel was renamed to D!NG on May 12, 2019, seemingly due to the channel being demonetized for having a name that was not considered advertiser-friendly.
Alkali metals research Mason, on his own and with some fellow technical workers, did original physical chemistry research into the nature of the alkali metals (sodium and potassium, for example) and their chemistry with oxygen and water.
She worked on a sixteen-episode show, Schrott or Not ("Trash or Not"), which she cohosted with Johannes Büchs.
He and one of his university colleagues looked through a book containing chemical names and started with "N" because his name began with the same letter.
MinutePhysics was one of the original founders of the Standard creator community along with Dave Wiskus, CGP Grey, Philipp Dettmer and many other creators.
The event was organized as part of the Andromeda Initiative, in cooperation between the European Space Agency and Electronic Arts, to promote the release of action role-playing video game Mass Effect: Andromeda.
Muller moved to Australia to study film-making; however, he instead enrolled for a PhD in physics education research from the University of Sydney, which he completed in 2008 with the thesis, Designing Effective Multimedia for Physics Education.
Green served on the advisory board alongside Burnie Burns, Akilah Hughes, Casey Neistat, and Louise Pentland.
He is a fifth-generation lobsterman, part of a family tradition extending back several generations in Winter Harbor and neighboring harbors.
As part of the deal, the Green brothers received a small portion of Patreon and Hank signed on as an unpaid advisor.
Current work Daniel Shiffman is currently focused on developing tutorials, examples, and libraries for Processing, the open source programming environment created by Casey Reas and Ben Fry.
Within its first year of operation, the channel was followed by 100,000 viewers and she decided to focus on turning it into a full-time job and business.
Grey's video Humans Need Not Apply was covered by Business Insider and Huffington Post, and his animated video of Nick Bostrom's "The Fable of the Dragon-Tyrant" was "unanimously praised" by the Life Extension Advocacy Foundation.
Shift toward larger projects (2018–2021) Increase in production value and astronaut training series As her popularity increased, Giertz received sponsorships from large companies such as Ericsson, Google, and Audible.
As of February 12, 2026, the channel has over 993 thousand subscribers, 107 videos, and more than 132 million total video views.
Macdonald did post-doctoral work with the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) collaboration as part of an attempt to detect gravitational waves from the Crab Pulsar.
When he was in middle school, Vickers decided that he wanted to join the United States Army Special Forces, and gained an interest in firearms during this period.
As of February 12, 2026, Denby has accumulated more than 1.7 billion views and over 8.8 million subscribers across all of his YouTube channels.
His role focuses on Google's YouTube platform, including meeting with fellow content creators to optimize their videos' effectiveness.
The week prior to the 2022 Project for Awesome, Partners In Health co-founder Paul Farmer unexpectedly died at the age of 62.
During this period, John "found politics boring and divisive", believing that politics and voting were a waste of his time.
After making a video explaining the new YouTube Red service to confused YouTube creators, he realized an organization representing them would better serve their needs.
Adam Ragusea ( rə-GOO-see-ə; born March 22, 1982) is an American YouTuber and educator who creates videos about food recipes, food science, and culinary culture.
She is married to Lucie Gabriela Career Cornwell began her eponymous YouTube channel in 2013, where she originally documented her time studying law at the University of Bristol.
Recent research directed by Dodds has been commented on in The New York Times, Smithsonian Magazine, and other media.
In ten years the channel evolved from a passion project worked on during Dettmer's free time to a design studio with about seventy on the team.
After leaving Vox, Harris produced several video essays for the Opinion section of The New York Times.
Since September 2011, he is part of the educational project Academia Vasquez, responsible for video production of algebra and representative of Colombia said educational project.
Experiments Having joined YouTube in 2011, Reeder initially began posting videos of his experiments to show to his grandmother: "I would do science experiments all the time anyway ...
As of October 2025, he has 481,000 subscribers on his personal YouTube channel and 325,000 subscribers on his interview channel Event Horizon.
Because of her ease in front of the camera, enthusiasm, and fan comments, Graslie was asked to create her own YouTube channel, "The Brain Scoop", as a part of the Nerdfighter family.
Also in 2020, Baxter was recognized as an emerging leader in the field of healthcare, when USA Fortune Magazine named her to their "40 Under 40 in Health".
Jean has been educating for over 40 years and has created many resources for teachers in the classroom with their students.
He became interested in engineering at a young age, making a pair of goggles that helped avoid eye irritation while cutting onions.
Carroll in a five-part video series on time and entropy and with Grant Sanderson on a video about a lost lecture of physicist Richard Feynman, as well as a video about Bell's Theorem.
Taras Vladimirovich Kulakov (born March 11, 1987), better known as CrazyRussianHacker, is a Ukrainian-born Russian-American YouTuber of mixed Russian and Ukrainian descent.
He also created miniseries such as videos dedicated to debunking modern flat Earth beliefs, and a documentary series dedicated to the Titan submersible, and its implosion in 2023, during an expedition to view the wreck of the Titanic.
presidency, with songs about all of the former presidents and a series chronicling every presidential election in American history.
After a brief interregnum, the channel relaunched in March 2017 with Hank Green hosting alongside Rachel Calderon Navarro.
Ernst was struck by the enthusiastic response from young women and girls who approached her, expressing a desire to learn to code specifically to create similar projects.
Social media In 2009, Jones began posting on social media about medical topics as a medical student with two goals: provide the public with accurate medical information and provide a "traveling CV" of her work.
He has also spoken at events for Adweek, VidCon, MIPTV Media Market, the Edinburgh International Television Festival, and for Novo Nordisk as a diabetes educator.
Boxing career Varshavski made his amateur boxing debut in May 2022 against influencer iDubbbz as the headline fight in the Creator Clash boxing event.
At the time, Sullivan was the owner of Trident Rifles in Gambrills, Maryland and an intelligence analyst for the Department of Homeland Security, while Hall was chief of police in Coats, North Carolina.
On May 21, 2020, the show was nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award in the category "Outstanding Educational or Informational Series", which it won.
Event Horizon publishes interviews with some of the most well-known scientists in the world, including Nobel-winning physicist Frank Wilczek, NASA Chief Scientist James Green and the Harvard Professor Avi Loeb.
Amy Scribner of BookPage described it as "a fun, illuminating read," but also noted that some parts were "a bummer" because they looked at radicalization and harmful ideas online.
Green himself also saw a significant increase in his fame, with the Indianapolis Business Journal noting that he had much more "visibility and presence in his fans' lives" than other contemporaneous authors with equal or greater book sales.
More recently, he has contributed regularly to the CBC, NPR, and BBC radio programmes Costing The Earth, Science in Action, The World Tonight, Outlook and East Asia Today, as well as the ABC's Science Show.
She cleaned new specimens, gave tours, trained new interns, and acted as a teaching assistant for a class at the University of Montana.
The British newspaper The Independent named him and Honza Mikulka "the patron saints of Prague tourism".
At the end of 2017, the CNRS launched the popular science YouTube channel Zeste de science, hosted by Léa Bello, where, in "an offbeat tone, she presents ongoing research or a recent discovery".
The group has made seven albums, Ten Hours, Gourmet Ravioli, Gotta Record Everything Good, Chaos, Across the Road, Round 6, and One Week, all written and recorded in a day each.
The channel also explains the economic disadvantages of US one-cent coins in a video titled Death to Pennies.
In 2017, Hendy started a PhD at ANU focusing on using nanoindentation to examine the mechanical response of plant cells to applied pressure.
Beginning with the annual Project for Awesome fundraiser in 2013, Partners In Health received $50,000 as one of the community-chosen charities.
But you know, he sends me his records and all that stuff." Discography Albums Source: Additional credits Kiss – Carnival of Souls: The Final Sessions References External links Ken Tamplin discography at Discogs Ken Tamplin at AllMusic Ken Tamplin at IMDb Profile at No Life Til Metal
Career After Santoro graduated from Brock University with a Master of Accountancy in 2010, he became an accountant.
It shared how the human body responds to COVID-19 and how effective the measures are in evading SARS-CoV-2.
Career He has been professor in colleges and universities, such as "Colegio Hebreo Jorge Isaacs" the "Corporación Universitaria Minuto de Dios" and the Faculty of Medicine Universidad San Martín in Cali.
He says there is a great interest in Old Norse material, but much of what can be found on the Internet is unreliable, and he wants to provide accessible information that is separate from both popular culture and mystical practices.
For example, in episode one, Stevens locks himself in an empty room for three days in order to investigate the effects of social isolation on the brain.
He tearfully talked about an unnamed romantic partner, whom he claimed was manipulative and forced him to turn his friends and family away in favour of her and she had also psychologically and physically abused him during their relationship.
In January 2015, he started the channel Astrofaza (from Latin astrum 'star', and Polish faza 'craving'), in which he began posting popular science educational videos about astronomy and space exploration, as well, as streaming video games, such as Kerbal Space Program.
CGP Grey is an Irish–American educational YouTuber, podcaster, and live streamer based in the United Kingdom who creates explanatory videos on subjects including politics, geography, economics, sociology, history, philosophy, and culture.
Early and personal life Kulakov was born in the Soviet Union on March 11, 1987, into a mixed Russian and Ukrainian family.
In a tweet published on August 15, 2021, Santoro announced that he was leaving YouTube after 10 years of uploading, in favor of streaming on Twitch.
In 2013, Stevens stated that he researches on Wikipedia and academic papers to find information for his videos.
Vsauce () is a YouTube brand created by American educator Michael Stevens consisting of the eponymous channel plus five other spin-offs.
At the time, he worked as a marketer and photographer in Gdańsk, later ending his employment and moving back to Płock, to focus on developing the channel.
The same year, ahead of her fortieth birthday, she posted a video in which she built a mobile sandwich toaster.
He's currently working towards an Instrument Rating and also owns an Aerospool WT9 Dynamic light sport aircraft which appears in a number of videos.
He uses earnings from these partnerships to support his family and crew, which includes a videographer added in 2023.
Hill, manager Max Simmons, illustrator Luka Sarlija, editor Moffit and Brown are an openly gay couple who met while studying biology at the University of Guelph.
In the past she was also a television presenter, among others, hosting shows such as Na gapę for Canal+, Przytul mnie for Polsat, Pytanie na śniadanie for Polish Television, and Good Morning TVN for TVN.
Criticism Swinga has been criticized for what was described as a "demagogic" and "superficial" tackling of some topics.
In late 2016, she and German YouTuber Laura Kampf published a video in which they built "The Pussy Grabs Back Machine"—a reference to a comment by then-presidential candidate Donald Trump—that used a rubber hand to hit the groin of a person who grabbed the groin of the wearer.
In 2016, the Art Libraries Society of North America criticised the studio's occasional lack of credible sources and professional consultation, and use of emotive language.
Mind Field and Brain Candy Live (2016–present) In 2016, former MythBusters co-host Adam Savage stated that he would join Stevens on a stage tour in 2017.
His most popular series, titled Career Ladder, focuses on him attempting to guess careers of people met on the street under two minutes, while standing with them on a ladder.
The channel has been featured by The Times, ITV News, BBC News, Business Insider, and Tages-Anzeiger Panorama.
Mould's motive for starting the website was the constant inquiry from people to buy the stuff used in their shows.
He has collaborated in several researches related to big data problems in areas as language, stories, sociotechnical systems, complex systems, Earth science, biology, and ecology.
Tamplin signed a solo recording contract with Frontline Records, releasing the album An Axe To Grind in 1990.
References This article draws heavily on the corresponding article in the Spanish-language Wikipedia, which was accessed in the version of 3/2014.
He has described his YouTube videos as, "dubious quality, questionable integrity and unethical delivery".
The first season ran in early 2017, the second season from late 2017 to early 2018, and the third from late 2018 to early 2019.
Santoro retired with the title of #1 "most loved" Periscoper in the world with over 177 million hearts on the live streaming app Periscope on November 11, 2015.
Following her tweet floating an idea for a Dirty Jobs spin-off called "Nerdy Jobs", Baxter was contacted by fellow science communicator and Crash Course host Hank Green with an offer to fund a pilot.
In mid-2023, Green was a leading figure in a successful campaign to persuade pharmaceutical company Johnson & Johnson (J&J) to allow generic versions of the tuberculosis drug bedaquiline to be produced, allowing increased global access to the drug.
On November 25, 2015, Roper announced on his side channel that he had a rare form of cancer called a sarcoma.
In 2017, he published 37-minute-long educational film about the black holes, titled Black Holes: Masters of Time and Space, which was awarded with a Grand Video Award in the popular science category.
After her residency finished, she went to San Diego to further her experience with laser, dermatological and cosmetic surgery.
She presented the educational YouTube channel called "The Brain Scoop" until 2021 and also hosted portions of the Big History series featured on the Crash Course YouTube channel.
In March 2023, Osman announced Open Sauce, a creator and maker convention inspired by Maker Faire and VidCon.
In April 2025, Ernst was a keynote speaker for the Women In Tech Sweden conference, where she emphasized the shared themes between textiles and computing.
She then started her own channel and began releasing a series titled "Art Lab", focusing on the intersection between science and art.
The following month, Kampf appeared with American maker Adam Savage on his Tested.com series One Day Builds, creating a tape dispenser that holds multiple rolls.
He often collaborates musically with Southern California DJ and producer samix, who produced the album Midriff Music by Josh Martinez which won the category "Best Rap Recording" award at the 2005 Western Canadian Music Awards.
This early experience was primarily educational but also introduced him to the business aspects of lobstering.
Kenneth Robert Tamplin, known professionally as Ken Tamplin, is an American vocal coach and former Christian rock musician.
Foxlin's 3D printed statue was also displayed at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., in March, 2022 within the full #IfThenSheCan – The Exhibit, featuring 120 3D printed statues displayed in celebration of Women's History Month.
In 2019 and 2020, the web magazine Hackaday reported on Braun extracting bismuth from pepto bismol, making aerogel, and making superconductors.
Andrew Lewis Huang (born April 8, 1984) is a Canadian musician, YouTube personality, and video producer.
Though she originally planned to study biology at Bristol University, Bowler attended Minerva University.
Shiffman runs a popular YouTube channel, The Coding Train, with instructional videos on how to program in Processing and p5.js, an open-source JavaScript library with a similar API to that of Processing.
Throughout high school and college, Green created and designed websites for himself and local clients.
The stolen trailer was found on July 30, and its contents were returned to Santoro on July 31, although some items were still missing, and several were damaged.
They have also filmed in multiple cities in the Czech Republic (such as Český Krumlov, Pardubice, and Brno) and abroad (New York City, Kraków, Innsbruck, Kyiv, and Tampere).
Christina Ernst is an American engineer and social media content creator known for her work in "fashioneering," a portmanteau for the integration of fashion and engineering.
She went on to work at AMRI Global in drug discovery following her Master's program and recounted her experiences working as a Black woman in science research in a Mother Jones article.
The winning bidders received a custom song in any genre, written and recorded to their specifications.
References External links The stuffed animal that’ll hug your kids from afar Parihug Building a giant wooden rocket in 5 days YouTube video TEDx talk by Xyla Foxlin Launching her crown into outer space YouTube video If/Then Digital Exhibit Companion (ifthenexhibit.org)
As of November 2025, with over 24 million subscribers and more than 310 videos (including shorts), the studio's original English language channel was the world's 265th most subscribed channel.
Allotaxonometry and rank-turbulence divergence: A universal instrument for comparing complex systems.
Career Journalism Ragusea began as a reporter in public media for the Indiana University-owned WFIU, before moving to WBUR-FM in Boston, and then Georgia Public Broadcasting (GPB).
He has worked as a mechanic, and studied geology at Westminster College and Utah State University, but was later academically suspended due to a low GPA.
He initially only posted the video on Facebook, but, after it received gained views, he also uploaded it to YouTube.
Nick Zentner is an American academic who works as a geology professor at Central Washington University in Ellensburg, Washington.
While in Cleveland, she entered a beauty contest and won the title for Miss Greater Cleveland; her skill was playing a violin using a Tesla coil that she developed.
The book originated from Doughty's observation that most adults she encountered had not received adequate death education.
Vizel offers tours of Williamsburg, a Hasidic neighborhood in the New York City borough of Brooklyn.
As of 2025, he was working at the Institute of Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic as a member of a research group headed by Pavel Jungwirth.
Santoro, along with Yousef Saleh Erakat, Soledad O'Brien and will.i.am hosted the Global Citizen 2015 Earth Day event.
She presented at the RTI Fellows Program Distinguished Lecture Series on leadership and communication in 2021.
References External links Lindsey Doe at IMDb Lindsey Doe on X Sexplanations on YouTube Media related to Lindsey Doe at Wikimedia Commons
Interviews with Y Combinator, one their investors, detailed an unconventional business model in which the company sold to schools and districts across the United States without a sales team.
She begins her tours with a discussion of Hassidism's roots in Eastern Europe and the impact of the Holocaust on the community.
He also occasionally creates historical parody songs and original history songs for Electric Needle Room, an indie pop band that Beat plays in, occasionally with other people.
She also did post-doctoral work at Cardiff University, still with LIGO, where she was the first female researcher in her department.
She also collaborated with satellite program EarthCARE in 2024 and became the ambassador for satellite navigation system Michibiki in 2025.
The channel provides tips for tourists, including tips on how to avoid tourist traps and scams in many cities, mainly Prague.
In the Wiki Science Competition 2019, his video of the growth of silver crystals on the surface of copper from a solution of silver nitrate was listed among runners-up in the same category, and in 2021, his video of the Wilson cloud chamber won the non-photographic media category.
In 2024, he began creating a series of short vertical videos, titled Career Ladder, in which he stands on the back rungs of a ladder, inviting one guest at a time to stand on the front side, attempting to guess their career through a series of questions in under two minutes.
His notable creations include a working hoverbike, an underground bunker, the world's longest motorcycle, a 71 mph (114 km/h) mobility scooter, and a motorised pram, many of which have broken Guinness World Records.
Derek Alexander Muller (born 9 November 1982) is a Canadian-Australian science communicator and media personality best known for his YouTube channel Veritasium, which has over 20.6 million subscribers and 4.1 billion views as of April 2026.
In March 2020, he interviewed Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), about the pandemic.
Science communication In October 2024, Ernst posted a video of one of her engineering projects, a motorized character from the film Ratatouille.
He then went on to receive his Graduate Advanced Diploma of Health Sciences specializing in Chiropody at the Michener Institute for Applied Health Sciences.
Episodes Season 1 (2017) Season 2 (2017–18) Season 3 (2018–19) Special episodes (2018-2019) References External links Mind Field at IMDb
While attending the preparatory school, Green became good friends with Daniel Alarcón, who would go on to become an author as well.
He was The Sunday Times correspondent in Tokyo from 1988 to 1990, then wrote a regular column for the Daily Mail on life in Japan.
Changing the design to show accurate geometry is not appropriate in this context." Parker said he felt "like the Department for Transport had not read the petition properly".
Katya Celeste Echazarreta González (born June 15, 1995) is a Mexican and American electrical engineer, science communicator, and Citizen Astronaut.
Scott announced that he was taking a break from his YouTube work starting 1 January 2024, after a decade of consistent weekly uploads.
Related channels In October 2011, Reich, along with his father Peter and brother Alex, started MinuteEarth.
He also cites SpongeBob SquarePants as an influence on his style of comedy, describing it as "edgy but fundamentally [...] just a beam of bright sunshine".
His videos often feature unique or rare lobsters, demonstrations of traditional fishing techniques, and interactions with his crew.
Career Cath in College Goetze began filming video skits with her siblings in middle school using her parents' camcorder and later worked on video journalism in high school.
In 2022, Vizel was interviewed in the first episode of the Shalom Hartman Institute's podcast Heretic in the House.
However, when a change in her birth control led to depression, the Federal Aviation Administration revoked the necessary medical certificate of her pilot's license.
He collaborated with Lilly Singh, Olga Kay, Toby Turner, and Arnold Schwarzenegger, among others, in Terminator Genisys: The YouTube Chronicles, a promotional series for the 2015 film Terminator Genisys.
Political views In 2023, he described himself as a "garden variety American center-left person" who is supportive of Ukraine during the Russian invasion of Ukraine.
On the channel Bonnet publishes educational videos on the subject of materials science but also entertaining videos about the topic.
Jones is a founding member of the Pinnacle Conference, a leadership conference for female physicians, as well as the Association for Healthcare Social Media.
As of February 12, 2026, that channel has over 4.88 million subscribers, 273 published videos, and more than 803 million total video views.
They settled on nile red, a compound for dyeing used in biochemistry and microbiology, because it sounded good and also not like a chemical.
References External links Official website Kurzgesagt - In a Nutshell on YouTube "Dinge Erklaert Kurzgesagt" [Brief Explanations of Things] (in German).
He is a New York Times best-selling author and his book Humble Pi was the first mathematics book in the UK to be a Sunday Times No.
It has long been thought this was caused by the dissociation of water by the metal, releasing hydrogen and oxygen which recombined in an explosion.
In 2015, Jenny Keller, who ran the YouTube channel "Laughing Witch", attempted to get Mason fired by sending letters to his employer.
The podcast features discussions pertaining to their lives as professional content creators for YouTube, as well as their interests and annoyances.
Roper's channel focuses on explanations of the science behind fictional worlds, according to The Daily Dot in 2015.
Filmography References External links Olimpia Ajakaiye on IMDb Olimpia Ajakaiye on FilmPolski.pl (in Polish) Olimpia Ajakaiye on Filmweb (in Polish)
Recognition In 2021, a 3D printed statue of her, along with other women leaders in aviation and aerospace-related fields, was displayed at Dallas Love Field airport in Texas as a preview of an exhibition called #IfThenSheCan – The Exhibit.
On 25 March 2010, Furze was arrested by Lincolnshire Police, for possessing an object converted into a firearm (in UK law, a flame thrower is a type of firearm).
In 2020, he blew the whistle on a draft bill by the Moroccan government, that would limit freedom of expression on social media.
Comedy In 2023, after his May cancer diagnosis, Green began to develop a stand-up comedy routine about the disease.
In December 2022, he appeared in two episodes of Christmas University Challenge as captain of the University of York team.
During this period, Hadfield wrote and appeared on screen regularly as a correspondent for CNN, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC), ABC News (U.S.) and the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC).
He then attended the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics, where he earned his master's degree in theoretical physics from the institute's Perimeter Scholars International program.
2016, Verlag: Springer Vieweg ISBN 978-3-658-13827-1 Kunststofftechnik: Grundlagen, Verarbeitung, Werkstoffauswahl und Fallbeispiele, M.
Narrated in English by Steve Taylor, many videos are also available through other language-specific channels, such as in German through the channel Dinge Erklärt – Kurzgesagt, and in Spanish through En Pocas Palabras – Kurzgesagt.
This was speculated to be true for all convex polyhedra, but attempts to find examples of such a pass-through for certain convex polyhedra were fruitless as of 2024–2025.
Tomines cites the videos of dermatologist Sandra Lee as part of the inspiration for his YouTube videos and brand.
Personal life Since mid-2021, Ragusea has lived in Knoxville, Tennessee, with his wife, novelist Lauren Morrill, and their two children.
She also works as an actress, and was in television series such as Klasa na obcasach (1998–2000), Na dobre i na złe (2000), Sukces (2000), Zostać miss (2001), True Law (2005), Na Wspólnej (2007), Julia (2012), Święty (2020), and Na sygnale (2021–2024).
On 4 November 2022, he released a video resulted from a collaboration with Moroccan historian Nabil Mouline, about Moroccan-Algerian relations and the History of Morocco.
In a 2019 video explaining a period of channel inactivity, Reeder mentioned how some of his videos, although intended to be used for educational purposes, had been flagged by YouTube, showing a warning he received for a video on making gunpowder from urine.
In 2004, Muller graduated from Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, with a Bachelor of Applied Science in Engineering Physics.
Hadfield has debunked claims made by Christopher Monckton about climate science in a series entitled "Monckton Bunkum." His video about how climate change deniers have claimed that the earth has been cooling since 1998 was called "true skepticism at its best" by Maggie Koerth-Baker.
Starting in the mid-2000s, he gave lectures to the public about local geology topics, such as one on the Columbia River Basalt Group.
Donations raised through Good Store and the Project for Awesome contributed to the construction of the Paul E.
On 14 October 2010, it was announced that Furze had modified a mobility scooter to give it the ability to reach 71 mph (114 km/h) in an attempt to enter the Guinness Book of Records.
He attended the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, New York, but left before the end of his first year.
Jones confirmed in October 2025 that she and her husband have now divorced and will remain abroad for the foreseeable future, as they have shared custody of their four children.
She presented a talk at Vogue Mexico's Forces of Fashion, discussing her experience with fashion not being fully welcome in STEM and how she is working to break down those stereotypes.
Also in 2021, Baxter organized the #BlackInSciCom Twitter hashtags as part of her #BlackInX initiative to increase visibility of Black scientists.
Discography Nursery Rhymes and Good Ol' Times (2002) Kiss Your Brain (2003) All Day Long (2004) Totally Math (2006) Is Everybody Happy?
Zentner requests and promotion of historic fieldnotes in 2023, let to the digitization of the fieldnotes, news items and expeditions of Bretz, Pardee, Large and Flint.
According to the launch announcement, the channel continues the well-liked coverage of topics from Wikipedia's "Unusual articles" list, referred to as "That Wikipedia List" or TWL, which was previously published on the Wendover Productions channel, but is not restricted solely to that end.
He discovered etymology during a visit to a bookstore in Cambridge, England in March 2016 while reading the 2011 publication The Etymologicon by English author Mark Forsyth.
YouTube career Lucy Bella Earl studied at the University of Westminster, from which she graduated in 2016 with a BA in Marketing Communications.
However, after five years with no progress on the project, Green told fans that, while he "desperately loved" the screenplay, there seemed to be little interest at Paramount.
He went to St Thomas More Catholic School, Blaydon, before going on to study physics at St Hugh's College, Oxford.
Things to Make and Do in the Fourth Dimension: A Mathematician's Journey Through Narcissistic Numbers, Optimal Dating Algorithms, at Least Two Kinds of Infinity, and More.
"If Doughty and the Order's death-care revolution is successful, Americans will be more comfortable contemplating mortality and dying— thus preparing for it, seriously considering alternatives such as green burial, composting, and using crematoria that have carbon-offset policies".
He started his geographic locations series after having curiosity about the origin of the Manhattan neighborhood Hell's Kitchen, which led him to create infographics for neighborhood names in other American cities.
Scott released his first video on the YouTube channel since the break on 23 March 2026, announcing an unscripted 41-episode series called Tom Scott: England.
In response to one controversial tweet made by Nicki Minaj on side effects of vaccines, Baxter shared a rap song she made on how vaccines work.
Its content focuses on a variety of comic educational series such as Unfinished London, Politics Unboringed, and Map Men (presented with Mark Cooper-Jones), as well as music videos for his songs and clips from his comedy shows.
Collaborations MinutePhysics has collaborated with Vsauce, as well as the director of the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics, Neil Turok, and Destin Sandlin (Smarter Every Day).
Tamplin's brother Lance is a pastor with whom he started Living Stones Fellowship in 2001, which was based at the La Tierra Elementary school in Mission Viejo, where he served as a worship director.
Giertz gained wider fame for Truckla, a project documented in June 2019, in which she and collaborators modified a Tesla car into a pickup truck; she was then invited to the launch of the official Tesla pickup truck.
The video was accused of misleadingly summarising the conclusions of the contentious Rat Park experiments.
Sadie Dingfelder of The Washington Post said Aleksic represents "the very linguistic shifts he describes" and called the book "valuable" for the way he explains linguistics.
After that, he took on his current position teaching geology at Central Washington University in Ellensburg, Washington.
Since 2011, Muller has continued to appear on Catalyst, reporting scientific stories from around the globe, and on Australian television network Ten as the 'Why Guy' on the Breakfast program.
The video went viral and was covered in publications such as Popular Science, The CBC, Entertainment Weekly, and CNN.
This was in conjunction with a multi-YouTuber movement to get back at and shut down scam callers, while raising awareness to prevent other people from being scammed.
In 2016, in her final year of university, Earl launched her educational YouTube channel ‘English with Lucy’.
Science fiction consultation Macdonald moved to Los Angeles from Colorado and works with writers and producers in Hollywood to bring scientific accuracy to their productions.
Career After college, Parker taught maths in Australia for a while before moving to London and continuing teaching.
The restaurant owner has filed a lawsuit demanding the removal of the video, a public apology and a financial compensation.
Style Osman is a mechanical and electrical engineer whose videos involve science, robotics, and artificial intelligence.
D!NG D!NG, formerly DONG (Do Online Now, Guys), is a spin-off channel by Vsauce that features unusual pages, apps, and games from around the Internet.
2025 – Main-belt asteroid 46925 Bradyharan named by International Astronomical Union Publications "YouTube in Its Element".
In April 2024, Huang collaborated with Blue Man Group to write an original song and appear in their music video for “Desert Portal.” The song was released on streaming services on April 20, 2024.
On 3 August 2025, Rubeš disclosed that he is facing legal action over a critical video about a restaurant near Prague Castle, titled How They Work Magic in a Prague Pub with Beer.
Kampf and Giertz worked with Savage in his 2019 series Savage Builds, building battle cars in the style of the Mad Max films.
Other examples include a cover version of "99 Red Balloons" recorded with balloons, and a cover of The Weeknd's "Can't Feel My Face", using dental instruments filmed in his dentist's office.
During this period she became involved with the Actors Workshop, in Cardiff, which she credits with helping her efforts at science communication.
Through his work with Vsauce, Stevens has collaborated with and appeared alongside prominent individuals within the scientific community.
An article on TubeFilter blamed "overzealous viewers" for generating the automatic strikes, writing that Reeder's channel is both "wholesome and family-friendly", and commenting on how YouTube's strike system also affects those "who stay well within the bounds of acceptable content".
In April 2023, he announced that Q1 2023 donations from the Awesome Socks Club and the Awesome Coffee Club totaled $583,911.
Nigel Braun, known professionally as NileRed, is a Canadian YouTuber and chemist known for his chemistry-related videos covering chemical reactions and compounds.
Originally a social studies teacher in Kansas, Beat began publishing music videos and live performances of his band Electric Needle Room on YouTube in 2006.
After completing 11th grade, and therefore school in Kiryas Joel, Vizel got a job with an insurance agency.
He moved to New York City in 2008 and gained employment with both Barely Political and Next New Networks.
His father, Oskar, who was born in Ukraine, worked as a physician after graduating from the Third Medical Institute of Moscow, while his mother, who was of Russian origin, was a mathematics professor.
The video went viral and marked a turning point in his transition to becoming a social media content creator.
Following the event, she received a grant which provided the seed funding for what would become her educational initiative She Builds Robots.
"Artistic Leap Savannah Museum Gets High-Profile Addition: Main Edition." The Atlanta Journal - Constitution: G.1.
His videos cover a wide variety of topics, sparking ideas for April Fools' Day pranks and teaching about beating an escape room and filming primates in zoos non-invasively.
Giertz addressed Tesla CEO Elon Musk in the vlog, issuing a challenge for him to complete Tesla's official pickup truck, and saying, "Tweet at me, Elon.
In September 2019, she started the YouTube channel Linguriosa (a portmanteau of lingüista curiosa, 'curious linguist'), originally dedicated to sharing teaching methods for Spanish grammar, but where she now deals with linguistic doubts and focuses on Spanish language history and etymology.
He previously taught at University of Colorado, Boulder (2017–2020), University of California, Berkeley (2014–2017) and University of California, Los Angeles (2011–2014).
She attended Case Western Reserve University and majored in mechanical and aerospace engineering where she was described in a magazine as a "robotics whiz kid".
Research and career During her undergraduate career, Echazarreta was a research intern at Rutgers University in 2016 for their Research in Science and Engineering (RiSE) program.
Honours On December 7, 2023, Mary Simon, the Governor General of Canada, invested both Brown and Moffit with the Meritorious Service Medal (Civil Division) for using "explanations, solid facts and humour" to "educate the Internet generation about science topics".
In late 2024 and early 2025, Ernst had a recurring role on Season 6 of Mission Unstoppable, a STEM-focused educational television show on CBS hosted by Miranda Cosgrove.
It is a member of the stony Koronis family and measures approximately 4.6 kilometres (2.9 mi) in diameter.
Shortly after the death of his father, he discovered the video-sharing website YouTube, on which he shared his inventions beginning with his wall of death ramp in 2007.
On Metacritic, it has a weighted average score of 51 out of 100, based on reviews from five critics, indicating "mixed or average reviews".
Statistics As of 21 April 2025, AsapScience and Greg and Mitch have over 11 million subscribers combined.
His first video was uploaded on March 24, 2014, and most of his early videos were recordings of his projects as a laboratory technician then at his parents' garage, with them later being filmed at his industrial-grade laboratory.
Outside of his work with the university, he is known for his online videos covering the geology of the Northwestern United States and his series Nick on the Rocks.
He served a two-year mission in Tijuana, Mexico, and identified as a devout Mormon but has since left the church.
However, the third performance was cancelled due to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States.
After her recovery, Giertz resumed posting vlogs in July, and she set up a workshop in San Francisco in August.
His research interests range from gamma-ray astrophysics, such as positron-electron annihilation, nuclear gamma-ray lines, and gamma-ray bursts, to Islamic astronomy, i.e.
Early life Mikhail Oskarovich Varshavski was born on November 12, 1989, in Saransk, Soviet Union, to Jewish parents.
In 2017, he created and starred in the YouTube Premium series Mind Field, and presented the nationwide educational stage tour Brain Candy Live!
In 2010, Huang teamed up with musician and internet personality Gunnarolla to produce videos and music, including the popular series We Are What You Tweet and New State Plates.
He has a Bachelor of Science degree in biochemistry with a minor in pharmacology from McGill University.
Despite running as a joke, he gained almost 3,000 votes, won the election, and served as the organisation's 48th president.
In 2010, after quitting a job at an apparel company, she moved out of her apartment and set up a workshop with a caravan in the Ehrenfeld neighbourhood of Cologne.
Work YouTube and social media Swinga did video montage and assistance for another Moroccan YouTuber in 2011.
The primary series features Stevens discussing a topic or question in a tangential manner, including various interpretations of the question and related facts and observations.
Steve Mould (born 5 October 1978) is a British educational author, and science presenter who is most notable for making science-related educational videos on his YouTube channel.
Jacob Alexander Roper (born January 25, 1987) is an American Internet celebrity primarily known for hosting the Vsauce3 YouTube channel, which is part of the YouTube channel brand Vsauce.
As of December 2022 his channel has amassed over 288 million views and over 1.9 million subscribers.
Personal life In May 2024, while she was in the process of buying a condo in Virginia Beach, Baxter's broker informed her that the seller rescinded the agreement because she learned that Baxter was Black.
In June 2015, Santoro obtained a global publishing deal from Penguin Books for his book, titled MIND=BLOWN, which was released on August 9, 2016.
Also during this time, he recalls in an interview, that he noticed that his opinionated fact compilation videos, such as his top ten lists and "50 Amazing Facts To Blow Your Mind" series, were viewed more than his other videos.
Damania spent time reading anti-vaccination groups online and the few medical experts who were attempting to push against the tide of disinformation, such as David Gorski.
Life and career Jackson Crawford is a former Instructor of Nordic Studies, and Coordinator of the Nordic Program.
It was claimed by his friend, Rob Gavagan (né Dyke), that the "unnamed partner" mentioned in the video was Nicole Arbour.
mid 1970s) is an American science fiction author, science communicator and futurist who produces documentary videos centered on future technology and the potential for advanced extraterrestrial life.
She co-authored Depth-Inversion "Easillusions" and "Hardillusions": Differences for Scenes and Faces which focused on human recognition of two depth-inversion illusions—the perception of depth structure opposite to the stimulus's physical depth.
Lucy Bella Simkins (née Earl) is a British teacher of English as a foreign language and the creator of the educational channel 'English with Lucy' on YouTube.
He became known for his content on life hacks, technology, and scientific demonstrations, popularized with the catchphrase "Safety is [the] number one priority" at the beginning of most of his videos.
In March 2020, he donated $50,000 worth of N95 masks in the face of shortages for medical personnel due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Her honours thesis title was ‘Examining the mechanical response of Arabidopsis thaliana using nanoindentation and Finite Element Modelling’, where she received class honours with a grade 93/100 for her thesis.
He is also the founder of KLYM&CO, a communications agency that provides consulting, strategy and production services to clients in 25 countries, which includes the United Nations, World Wide Fund for Nature, NATO, Google, and Microsoft, among others.
In August 2022, Hank Green reported that the Awesome Socks Club had over 40,000 subscribers and the Awesome Coffee Club had over 10,000.
Matthew Coker, reviewing the volume in The Medieval Review, called the Cowboy Hávamál a "refreshingly unique take on the poem" that brings "its hard natural and human world to life".
Career Mason worked at Cornell University's department of food science from 2002 until 2012, where he studied the molecular interactions between water and sugar molecules, as well as molecular modeling with regard to proteins and guanidinium solutions.
As of October 2025, it had 595,000 subscribers, being the most popular Polish-language space-related YouTube channel.
Google tapped Reich for their 2017 "Be Internet Awesome" campaign, a video series aimed at creating a safer Internet space for children.
On October 1, 2019, all episodes became watchable with ads for free for those without YouTube Premium.
Together with five other internet influencers from European countries, he underwent training, culminating in a parabolic flight in a reduced-gravity aircraft.
Collaborations In October 2023, Usui became the public relations ambassador for the Cabinet Office's 6th Space Development and Utilization Awards, appearing on promotional posters.
Foreman created and co-writes the series with Paul Kendler, who often features within the episodes themselves.
The origins of many recently adapted genes have now been traced to this period, creating effects such as regional differences in skin colour and skeletal gracility.
He argues that the event was an exceedingly improbable one and questions the likelihood of it having happened elsewhere in the Universe.
The book was described as having significant, "broad" coverage, but not as much "depth", making it a potential resource for students and researchers looking to find more-detailed references.
Only A Theory: Evolution and the Battle for America's Soul is a 2008 book by the American cell biologist and Roman Catholic Kenneth R.
Despite this, the review recognised the book's call for altruistic education and reform as sincere, though doubted its practical impact.
"You did it yourself in nine months" discusses developmental biology, especially the work of Lewis Wolpert.
Oppenheimer writes that there was only one migration out of Africa that contributed to the peopling of the rest of the world.
rex and the Crater of Doom is a nonfiction book by UC Berkeley professor Walter Alvarez that was published by Princeton University Press in 1997.
Originally, the pamphlet was prepared as a lecture delivered by Pannekoek within the circles of the social-democratic parties of the Netherlands and Germany.
The book received positive blurbs from linguists Noam Chomsky and Norbert Hornstein, professor of evolutionary genetics Gabriel Dover, and professor of cell biology and anatomy Stuart Newman.
Around 1959 or 1960, as more and larger invertebrate groups were being addressed, the incompleteness of the then-current state of affairs became apparent.
In December 2004 the National Academy of Sciences held a colloquium in honour of Mayr's 100th birthday at the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Center of the National Academies of Science and Engineering in Irvine, California.
For decades the most enlightened writers in the fields of science and religion had accepted that much of the Old Testament, and Genesis in particular, had to be read in a metaphorical sense...
Much of the book is devoted to his research team's efforts at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology towards mapping the Neanderthal genome as part of the Neanderthal genome project.
Systematics and the Origin of Species from the Viewpoint of a Zoologist contains a reassessment of previous evidence regarding the mechanisms of biological evolution.
“Over evolutionary time, predators get better at catching prey, which prompts prey animals to get better at evading capture.” He examines cruelty in nature, such as Ichneumonidae, wasps that lay their larva in live caterpillars, which they consume from the inside out.
The devastation precipitates a war with Earth's colonies on the outer planets, with whom a struggle for control of the solar system existed.
Work on the book proved difficult at times, according to illustrator Borin Van Loon, as the schedule of the author Jonathan Miller was, "always taken up with lighting Rigoletto at the Royal Opera House or making a television series on the human body.
Fisher, and Julian Huxley, all touching on the biological basis of human society, followed by Konrad Lorenz, Desmond Morris and Robert Ardrey in the 1960s, and Richard Dawkins and David Barash in the 1970s.
This would be an ESS if any one cowardly frog that does not fight to the death always fares worse (in terms of evolutionary survival fitness).
A glass of water at 20 degrees Celsius will have the same amount of energy as a glass divided in half with the top fluid at 30 degrees and the bottom at 10, but only in the second glass will the top half have the capacity to do work upon the bottom.
Now, Treatise Online publishes sections of upcoming Treatise volumes as individual articles when they are ready, rather than waiting for an entire volume to be completed.
Further, he charged that prevailing theories did not mesh with Native American oral traditions, which he contended contain no accounts of inter-continental migration.
It went through three editions (1933, 1945, 1966) and for many years constituted a very authoritative work and the definitive coverage of the subject.
He touches upon his personal life, reflecting on his father, the chemist Sune Bergström, with whom he had a relatively distant relationship, and on his own marriage and son.
In addition, the boundary prevents the first reaction from completely consuming all of the available substrate in the environment.
He introduces sexual selection, “selective breeding by females of males.” This leads to natural selection, in which “nature is the selecting agent.” "Silence and slow time" examines the age of the Earth and geologic time.
See also Charles Darwin Evolutionary psychology Sociobiology The Territorial Imperative, 1966 book by Robert Ardrey The Moral Animal, 1994 book by Robert Wright Notes and references Notes References External links The Naked Ape 1973 at IMDb , and review
It has been cited over 200 times and has a major influence on extended evolutionary synthesis research.
His book was written whilst he was Secretary to the Zoological Society of London, and made use of his remarkable collection of reprints covering the first part of the century.
Two court cases in the 1980s related to evolution vs creationism codified scientific principle into law.
Yule stating that "Oceans of Kansas offers a well researched and often engaging account of the paleobiology of the Western Interior Seaway...".
The British paleontologist Darren Naish praised the artwork, particularly that the book included depictions of several dinosaurs only rarely (and in some cases never) illustrated prior, though he also found the illustrations to be "shrink-wrapped" (reconstructed with too little soft tissue).
Wonderful Life: The Burgess Shale and the Nature of History is a 1989 book on the evolution of Cambrian fauna by Harvard paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould.
Wesson argues that reductionism is inadequate and looks for chaos theory as an example of a different approach that is needed to explain evolution.
Levitin identifies six fundamental song functions or types (friendship, joy, comfort, religion, knowledge, and love) then shows how each in its own way has enabled the social bonding necessary for human culture and society to evolve.
The bottom line seemed to be - was there a meaning or intention behind how life changed?' Selected works Darwin: A Companion.
The hole itself is not a physical thing, but rather a source of constraint that helps to restrict the conformational possibilities of the wheel's components, such that, on a global scale, the property of rolling emerges.
Meaning and Purpose, written by Kenneth Walker, was first published in September 1944 by Jonathan Cape, London, and republished by Pelican Books in 1950.
Illustrated by Karen Lewis, the book explains Charles Darwin's theory of common descent with a target audience of 3–5-year-olds.
The collection of essays, written between 1973–1977, became a best-seller and propelled Gould to national prominence.
When selective constraint is reached at a locus negative selection becomes so small that it is effectively neutral.
Background Edward Payson Evans (1831–1917) was an American scholar with interests in literature, languages, and moral philosophy.
Allen Orr wrote in The New York Review of Books that "Wade's survey of human population genomics is lively and generally serviceable.
The mites believe Darwin to be a god, one of their creation myths handed down from generation to generation, and he has to set them straight about that and other mite fables.
Wilkes also praised the "striking" illustrations by Philip Hood, particularly that of the "vacuumorph", though noted that some of his artwork was somewhat anatomically questionable and that some aspects of the book's science and technology "raised questions too involved to introduce here".
Wrangham argues that humans have domesticated themselves by a process of self-selection similar to the selective breeding of foxes described by Dmitry Belyayev, a theory first proposed by Johann Friedrich Blumenbach in the early 1800s.
Darwinian Fairytales is a 1995 book by the philosopher David Stove, in which the author criticizes application of the theory of evolution as an explanation for sociobiological behavior such as altruism.
The major transitions generally involve the formation of new levels of units of selection, consisting of ensembles of pre-existing entities.
The Phenomenon of Man (French: Le phénomène humain) is an essay by the French geologist, paleontologist, philosopher, and Jesuit priest Pierre Teilhard de Chardin.
This chapter and its addendum contained most of the controversial material, and is still important today.
The cumulative process is directed by non-random survival." Dawkins illustrates the difference between the potential for the development of complexity as a result of pure randomness, as opposed to that of randomness coupled with cumulative selection.
Paulin stated that "Darwin's conception of the cruelty of nature to her sentient offspring is wholly mistaken." He argued that the struggle for existence emphasized by Darwin was immoral.
The Future is Wild, a 2002 miniseries, features future animals evolving over the course of several million years.
Another example is that the 2025 The New Dinosaurs has tyrannosaurs go completely extinct in the mid-Cenozoic, and presents the scavenging "gourmand" in South America as an abelisaur rather than a tyrannosaur.
Will leave you awestruck." The Times wrote "Levitin is such an enthusiastic anthropologist, such an exuberant song and dance man, such a natural-born associative thinker, that you gotta love the guy." It was named one of the best books of 2008 by the Boston Herald and by Seed Magazine.
The second is a convection system, where the low density fluid on the bottom mixes with the high density fluid on the top until the density becomes evenly distributed.
"One anticipates that Benton's Vertebrate Palaeontology will become the 'industry standard', and as such it should occupy space on the shelves of all involved in undergraduate teaching".
Rubin, Carl-Johan; Zody, MC; Eriksson, J; Meadows, JR; Sherwood, E; Webster, MT; Jiang, L; Ingman, M; et al.
Shapiro, among others, to have been poorly edited and contain errors such as misspellings of relevant names.
See also On the Origin of Species References External links Official website (in French) Darwin and the science of evolution at the Internet Archive Charles Darwin : the scholar who changed human history at the Internet Archive Darwin et la science de l'évolution at IMDb
In 2008, a group of scientists led by Anthony Herrel found that the lizards had evolved stronger jaws to adapt to a vegetarian diet, and have started to evolve a cecum.
Some of the issues discussed in the book are sexuality, telepathic communication between people, physical prowess or frailty, division of humans by caste or ability, and the preservation of ancient wisdom, among other things.
It should be pronounced to rhyme with ‘cream’.” Reception The Selfish Gene was extremely popular when published and it remains widely read.
Fisher's work also contributed to the development of many genetical studies, as his influence was great among scientists, making him a key figure in modern evolutionary biology.
Figure 8 of Osborn's paper, redrawn from the fossil, shows what was later proven to be an oviraptorid wishbone between the animal's arms, interpreted by Osborn as the interclavicle ("Ic." in Figure 8).
It posits that the Harappans were a mixture of Zagros agriculturists (from the modern-day Iran area) and First Indians, a wave of migrants who came from Africa into Arabia and then reached India around 65,000 years ago.
Summary The book is an expansion of the Jacob Bronowski Memorial Lecture in Natural Philosophy which Sagan gave at the University of Toronto.
Miller says that "Zimmer’s book is to be recommended for the broad scope that it gives to the influence of evolutionary ideas in modern biology.
He describes frozen plasticity as being more general, and maintains that it better explains the origin of adaptive traits in genetically heterogeneous populations of sexual reproducing organisms.
Chapters It contains the following chapters: Introduction Variation within a Species The Genetical Analysis of Interspecific Differences Natural Selection What is Fitness?
A co-production between La Sept-Arte and Trans Europe Film, with the collaboration of Éditions Gallimard and CNRS Images Média, the film was directed by Valérie Winckler, with voice-over narration by the French actor Claude Aufaure and the director.
Elaborating on the nature of selection, he writes that it only works on the basis of whether alleles are better or worse than others in the population, in terms of their immediate fitness effects.
Reception Criticism of the book has come from the biologist Michael Ghiselin: "Much of what he says is completely wrong.
First published in 1992 as The Creationists: The Evolution of Scientific Creationism, a revised and expanded edition was published under the current title in 2006.
Who Asked the First Question?: The Origins of Human Choral Singing, Intelligence, Language and Speech.
Sources Some sources for the book include The Song of the Dodo by David Quammen, The Ghost With Trembling Wings by Scott Weidensaul, and reports from Edward O.
He also suggests that the necessity for genetic compatibility between mitochondrial and nuclear DNA lies behind the differentiation of sex, ensuring that only one sexual partner contributes mitochondrial DNA to offspring.
Bennett (1983) reviewed the book in the European Journal of Operational Research as did Mart Gross (1984) in The Quarterly Review of Biology.
We often hear that when the Origin of Species was published there was a great outcry and an historic clash of science and religion.
Depending on how much CO2 is emitted, the Earth could very well be heading towards Eocene-temperature levels far faster than any underlying long term paleontology-cycle would suggest.
Here the Hawk-Dove model is introduced its assumptions reviewed and then an extended model, playing the field, is outlined.
Hand waving about the creative power of the organism makes a nice-sounding philosophical position but a poor scientific theory".
Boltzmann entropy Shannon's information based conception of entropy should be distinguished from the more classic thermodynamic conception of entropy developed by Ludwig Boltzmann and others at the end of the nineteenth century.
According to Ford, Fisher's work was occasionally misinterpreted by his peers, but his depth and range of thought won him lasting respect.
Johnson has since added an epilogue to the book titled "The Book and Its Critics", in the latest edition of Darwin On Trial.
An article by Fern Elsdon-Baker in New Scientist of 19 July 2009 entitled the "Dawkins Dogma" contains parts of the arguments put forward within the book.
Critical reception Tom Allen, in The Journal of the Civil War Era, wrote that Lincoln and Darwin "is not always completely convincing" with regard to the "shared vision" Lander identifies, but concluded that the book "is well worth reading.
The Folly of Fools: The Logic of Deceit and Self-Deception in Human Life (2011, Basic Books, ISBN 0465027555) by Robert Trivers is a book that examines the evolutionary explanations for deceit and self-deception.
The group of biologists writing on a single unified (if somewhat broad) theme contrasts with Williams' earlier seminal 1966 book Adaptation and Natural Selection, whose arguments Williams suspected to be his alone.
The book received generally positive reviews upon release and garnered the nickname "The Dinosaur Bible".
Buss attributes this to instinctual adaptations which he argues are universal across cultures and rooted in ancestral selection pressures.
In 1971, a population of Podarcis sicula from the island of Pod Kopiste was transported to the island of Pod Mrcaru.
The novel appears in the computer game Deus Ex as a reference when a corporation in the game allegedly tries to develop the Second Men in the series, but also in a much broader aspect as the game deals with genetic engineering, the next phase of evolution and human augmentations.
The authors focus on physical factors (structuralism) other than changes in an organism's genome that may have caused multicellular life to form new structures.
"dinosauroids") in The New Dinosaurs due to intelligence not having "[proven] itself as a feature that has any evolutionary advantage at all".
Imagining what they were like is hard—with our limited lifespan, deep time eludes us by its very nature.
The Journal of Mental Science found his mixture of science and theology untenable but praised Clair for his sincerity in accepting the evidence for evolution.
The Growth of Biological Thought: Diversity, Evolution, and Inheritance is a book written by Ernst Mayr, first published in 1982 by Belknap Press and is as much a book of philosophy and history as it is of biology.
It requires only that individuals of a species vary genetically in their ability to survive and reproduce in their environment.
The project began with work on a few, mostly slim volumes in which a single senior specialist in a distinct field of invertebrate paleozoology would summarize one particular group.
OneZoom, an interactive fractal explorer of the tree of life, used to make the visualizations in The Ancestor's Tale.
One of the principal themes of the book is the continual evolution of humans, especially since their migration out of Africa around 50,000 years ago.
Donald Symons also finds it inappropriate to use anthropomorphism in conveying scientific meaning in general, and particularly in this instance.
Darwin emphasises the social value of expression, especially the emotional communication between mother and child.
They present evidence that most dominant human civilizations have always been likewise behaviorally patriarchal, and that male humans share male chimpanzees' innate propensity for dominance, gratuitous violence, war, rape, and murder.
He concentrated on mathematics while attending Cambridge, but eventually discovered that biology and statistics sparked his interest.
The book's title refers to the argument made by the authors that evolution by natural selection, rather than only acting on DNA sequence variation, acts on four different systems or "dimensions": genetic, epigenetic, behavioral, and symbolic.
Contents The books argues that different species of living things are exactly the same today as they were hundreds of millions of years ago, that having been created by God, life forms on Earth have never undergone even the slightest change/evolution.
The Atlas of Creation (or, in Turkish, Yaratılış Atlası) is a series of creationist books written by Adnan Oktar under the pen name Harun Yahya.
A biographical sketch of Darwin follows, covering his youth, his naturalistic studies on the voyage of the Beagle and subsequent life, focusing on his scientific researches and writings.
Similarly, Amerindians, Aboriginals, and Polynesians, for example, had experienced very little infectious disease.
Edited and with appendix and notes by his granddaughter Nora Barlow, London: Collins, retrieved November 5, 2019 Darwin, Charles (2006), "Journal", in van Wyhe, John (ed.), [Darwin's personal 'Journal' (1809-1881)], Darwin Online, CUL-DAR158.1-76, retrieved 2008-12-20 External links Barlow, Nora ed.
This they argue demonstrates the substantial influence that he has had on the field (Traulsen and Glynatsi, 2023, page 2.
Part biography, part history of science and social documentary, this book takes readers on Darwin's journey of discovery.
Darwin wrote the text, which he entitled Recollections of the Development of my Mind and Character, for his family.
The work was quickly translated into several languages: German (1909), Estonian, English (1912), Ukrainian (1920), and Chinese (1922).
It is considered to have bound together a wide array of ideas in a way that advanced the understanding of professionals in several fields.
Freeman: Bibliography with links to text and images of all editions of The Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication, including translations into French, German, Italian, and Polish.
Evans critiques the traditional anthropocentric worldview that places humans inherently above all other forms of life, arguing that this perspective is both scientifically outdated and morally inadequate.
Wagner and Chi-hua Chiu Epigenesis and Evolution of Brains: From Embryonic Divisions to Functional Systems, Georg F.
Dennett acknowledges this and admits he is offering a philosophical idea rather than a scientific formulation.
During the course of his research Ottaviani found the then-unpublished autobiography of Charles Knight.
Overview The book includes additional reading aids: An illustration of the evolutionary tree of life.
The book, which is written in the style of Alfred Sherwood Romer's Vertebrate Paleontology, presented more recent overall coverage of the subject.
Whitcomb, Jr.'s publication of The Genesis Flood (1961) and the forming of the Creation Research Society, which created the creation science movement.
Chapters eight and nine cover agency, while chapters ten and eleven cover efficacy, and twelve covers scope.
Whitcomb had earlier studied geology and paleontology at Princeton University, but by the 1950s, he was teaching the Bible at Grace Theological Seminary.
After the Postscript are 11 Appendices dealing with some more technical background and illustrative material.
ergaster, Homo erectus and Homo heidelbergensis, migrated out of Africa and to Asia (around 1 to 1.66 million years ago) and Europe (around 500,000 years ago), respectively.
The entry of each dinosaur species includes information on its size, age, distribution and anatomical characteristics.
It contains a selection of 87 letters from the correspondence of Charles Darwin, an autobiographical chapter written by Charles Darwin for his family, and an essay by Thomas Huxley "On the reception of the 'Origin of Species'".
While the dinosaur-bird connection (or lack thereof) was being pursued in paleontology, the problem of the evolution of flight was under scrutiny as well.
Gould describes the recapitulationists in the 19th century, from the German Lorenz Oken and Johann Friedrich Meckel to the French Étienne Serres.
In fact, few of us go back to the original, instead taking for granted what other people say he said.
Research For the Darwin bicentenary year of 2009, van Wyhe published four books on Darwin: Darwin's Shorter Publications; Darwin's Notebooks from the Voyage of the Beagle; Darwin in Cambridge; and an accessible biography: Darwin.
There is an internet version of the test called the Moral Sense Test which is aimed at a worldwide public.
Starting from the premise that society can, on a simplistic level, be represented as a variant of the prisoner's dilemma, Ridley examines how it has been possible for a society to arise in which people choose to cooperate with others, rather than "defect" and act purely in their own self-interest.
The Globe and Mail said of the book, "Here's an elegantly illustrated directory of ancient animals, from a tiny marine creature of Canada called a pkaia through a dim-witted, 21-metre dinosaur named after the Alamo, to mankind's departed brethren, the Cro-Magnon." == References ==
He accepted a Senior Research Fellowship at the National University of Singapore in 2002 where he both founded the Darwin Online project and edited the Science section of the Victorian Web.
Citing recent DNA evidence, the book traces the subsequent large migrations of anatomically modern humans into India—of agriculturalists from Iran between 7000 and 3000 BCE and Indo-European-speaking pastoralists from the Central Asian Steppe (Aryans) between 2000 and 1000 BCE, among others.
It does not goes much in-depth about the evolution of melanism in other species as the title might suggest.
Haldane and Sewall Wright expanded on Fisher's framework to describe gene frequencies, genetic drift and mutation.
It is considered one of three scholarly biographies of Darwin, along with Charles Darwin: The Man and His Influence (1996) by Peter J.
The Theory of Evolution is a book by English evolutionary biologist and geneticist John Maynard Smith, originally published in 1958 in time for 150th anniversary of the birth of Charles Darwin and the centenary of the publication of The Origin of Species the following year.
He presents here several figures and illustrations of the cleavage of the blastoderm in reptiles and birds.
In 2006, an independent film was made, based loosely on the book, written and directed by Daniel Mellitz, starring Josh Wise, Chelse Swain, Sean Shanks, Amanda MacDonald, Tony LaThanh, Corbin Bernsen.
She also describes specific species extinguished by humans, as well as the ecologies surrounding prehistoric and near-present extinction events.
Ridley examines the history of different attempts to explain the fact that humans in society do not defect, looking at various computer generated models that have been used to explain how such behaviour could arise.
This edition was published in London by Collins under the title of The Autobiography of Charles Darwin 1809-1882.
Description Through a series of short fictional stories and discussion following them, Baker proposes evolutionary functions for sexual habits, mostly on the principle of competition between sperm of different men for a prized egg.
Thus, "The Galápagos Finch's Tale" is about natural selection, "The Peacock's Tale" is about sexual selection, "The Salamander's Tale" is about speciation, and "The Barnacle's Tale" is about how appearances can be deceiving.
Scott further states that Johnson lacks familiarity with the specifics and nuances of the field necessary to match the critiques of Darwinism offered by evolutionary biologists, and instead parrots the criticisms made by suspect sources (scientific creationists).
There is also criticism about the emphasis on cladistic relationships described, while sections are organized following Linnaean taxonomy that can conflict or misrepresent cladistic groups.
Resonance example: A good example of morphodynamic work is the induced resonance that can be observed by singing or playing a flute next to a string instrument like a harp or guitar.
Proactive aggression, by contrast, is so highly developed in humans that we must put elaborate security measures in place to prevent others from carrying out plans to bring the plane down.
Johnson said in an interview in California Monthly that he fully expected to be labeled a "kook" by the academy, but he was "pleasantly surprised" by its reception at Berkeley.
Eugenie Scott has pointed out that the book repeats many arguments by creationists that were previously discredited.
The book provides an overview of the historical and philosophical debates that have continued throughout the history of evolutionary theory, and carry on to this day in debates surrounding the merits of gene-centric selection and group selection models.
A companion book, Walking with Cavemen: Stand Eye-to-Eye with your Ancestors, was also released in 2003 and received positive reviews.
A hostile review in 1949, mentioned that the book referred unfavourably to Karl Marx as never to be regarded as having been a profound thinker and concluded that it was "by a superficial man serving reactionary purposes".
For example, a typewritten page can bear as many different messages as there are different combinations of characters that can be arranged on the page.
Alan Kazlev wrote, "This is a very good non-technical introduction to prehistoric vertebrates" and "it is the sheer number and diversity of creatures covered here, that makes this book so interesting".
Then he questions if humanity would survive or extinguish itself by climate change, nuclear war, disease, or the posing threat of nanotechnology as terrorist weapons.
Awards New York Times 10 Best Books of the Year: Winner, 2017 Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction: Finalist, 2018 == References ==
See also The Rational Optimist: How Prosperity Evolves References External links Matt Ridley on Sex and Evolution at PBS
Pannekoek, who was also a prominent astronomer, sought to apply the Marxist approach to the analysis of the natural sciences.
Contents After opening with the declaration that "the Bible is the infallible Word of God", Whitcomb's section provides biblical arguments for a universal flood as well as attempting to refute non-geological difficulties with the biblical account.
Reception Contemporaneous Reviewing the book for American Scientist in 1943, the geologist Kirtley Mather wrote that the book provided "an admirable digest" of decades of work by many scientists.
The Eve in the title refers to Mitochondrial Eve, a name used for the most recent common ancestor of all humans in the matrilineal (mother to daughter) line of descent.
References External links Science, Evolution, and Creationism full text online from the National Academies Press
It topped The Sunday Times' Bestseller list, with more than twice the sales of its nearest competitor.
Laden concludes that "A Troublesome Inheritance is itself troubling, not for its politics but for its science.
Description of the book The book explores the multiple factors that may have been responsible for the origination of biological form in multicellular life.
The book contains a very useful summary of Majerus' work on melanism in ladybirds and a review of the peppered moth story, including observations on moth behavior which sparked controversy.
But the extraordinary complexity and difficulty of exact measurement may mean that that is never the case.
But, as with all successful encyclopedic renderings, its value resides in its detailed, beautifully illustrated, and lucidly organized descriptions.
The People's Press endorsed the book and published statements of support from Henry Demarest Lloyd, Robert G.
John Horgan in the New York Times was mostly positive in his evaluation of the ideas and evidence that Trivers put forward but said of Trivers' writing style: Trivers is not an elegant stylist like Dawkins, Wilson or Pinker.
Reception David Dobbs indicates that Prum's view is controversial but that he makes his case with clarity, grace, and charm, namely that aesthetic courtship gives females sexual choice, autonomy and safety.
References External links Google Books - The Last Days of the Dinosaurs Macmillan Publishers - The Last Days of the Dinosaurs
However, the pseudo-scientific method he uses in his work The Atlas of Creation cannot in any way be considered scientific.
Darwin and the Beagle gives a brief history of Darwin and his predecessors, like the geologists James Hutton and Charles Lyell.
Vincent's University Hospital reviewed the book favorably as well, describing it as "engagingly well-written" and praising the cartoon illustrations.
The Simon & Schuster Encyclopedia of Dinosaurs and Prehistoric Creatures: A Visual Who's Who of Prehistoric Life is an encyclopedia that was published in 1999 by Simon & Schuster.
It was highly important in asserting his dominance of comparative anatomy, and in the long run more influential in establishing evolution amongst biologists than was the debate with Samuel Wilberforce.
Despite all this, the oceanic wildlife remains untethered by most of these impacts, specifically the commercial farmed fish.
The book is a detailed study of the history of Indian paleoanthropology and of the fossil record of prehistoric people of the Indian Subcontinent.
Essentially, Singer claims that although humans possess selfish, competitive tendencies naturally, they have a substantial capacity for cooperation that has also been selected for during human evolution.
The Universal Kinship was one of several works by Moore, including Why I Am a Vegetarian (1895), Better-World Philosophy (1899) and The New Ethics (1907).
The human eye is built upside down and backwards, so that light has to travel through blood vessels and various cells before reaching the light receptors.
Supposing, for instance, that in a population of frogs, males fight to the death over breeding ponds.
Overview The first and second editions (1955 and 1969) provide an overview of the entire range of vertebrate evolution, and are illustrated by the distinctive drawings of Lois Darling.
In the first example, Gould explains that the decline of the top batting average does not imply that there has been a decline in the skill of baseball players.
She began it with a fable of a "small community of modest scholars called natural historians" who all practised their own sciences, until one day a man who "had been called Entomologist, Ecologist, and even Biochemist" arose among them and pronounced "there shall be a new science".
Contents The book opens with an introduction by the authors reflecting on the making of the TV series.
that circumnutation (the process that creates the circular or elliptical movement of the stem and tips of plants) was central in the development of multitudes of adaptations to the environment and thus resulting in an immense variety of plants.
Conditioning by reinforcement, occurs when an event following a response causes an increase in the probability of that response occurring in the future.
Neanderthals, Bandits and Farmers: How Agriculture Really Began is a book on prehistoric agriculture and anthropology by the British science writer Colin Tudge.
By biologists The theoretical biologist Mary Jane West-Eberhard reviewed the book in detail for The Quarterly Review of Biology as a work "of special significance".
Biology for Christian Schools is a 1991 school-level biology textbook written from a Young Earth Creation point of view by William S.
It then narrates the careers of two early, self-taught, 'scientific' creationists; the old Earth creationist Harry Rimmer, and the young Earth flood geologist George McCready Price.
The book was released as several states, particularly Texas and Florida, considered revisions in state science standards.
The book became one of the canonical publications on the modern synthesis and is considered to be exemplary of the original expansion of evolutionary theory.
Wade speculates where evolution will lead humans in the future, suggesting further skeletal gracilisation, increases in intelligence, adaptations to the changing climate, and even the possibility of speciation.
Several prominent dinosaur groups were also not known in 1988 (for instance scansoriopterygids and alvarezsaurs) or known only partially (such as rebbachisaurs and therizinosaurs).
Morris further stated that the more rounded shape of human female breasts means they are mainly a sexual signalling device rather than simply for providing milk for infants.
It became an international best-seller and was nominated for the Samuel Johnson Prize for Non-Fiction in 2003.
The book then narrates the young Earth creationist backlash against the ASA's modernism, with Henry M.
"Otherlands" & Thomas Halliday on climate change Halliday indicates that humankind bears a huge responsibility in the trajectory of our contemporary climate change.
Gould's first book of collected essays, it originated from his monthly column "This View of Life," published in Natural History magazine.
Paleontological accuracy Initial response Upon the release of The New Dinosaurs, many of the animals featured were criticized by paleontologists and science writers, particularly in that so many of the animals are entirely convergent with actual modern-day animals.
An Introduction to African Cave Taphonomy is a 1981 book by Charles Kimberlin Brain regarding the taphonomy of cave deposits in Africa.
Reception The Houston Chronicle stated, "this reference work for the serious student combines succinct scientific descriptions with superbly rendered color illustrations".
Protista / Protoctista, Volume 3: Protozoa (Chiefly Radiolaria & Tintinnina), xii + 195 p., 92 fig., 1954.
Wilson's Sociobiology had with "woeful ignorance" strayed into anthropology, and Wilson's "bright young colleague" Gould had now done the same thing, possibly making trouble for years to come.
franchise of documentaries, the production team of Walking with Cavemen recruited a large team of 111 scientists from various fields to advise on the series.
The book culminates in a call for a revision of existing legal and moral frameworks to better reflect the ethical responsibilities humans have towards animals, grounded in an understanding of their psychological complexity and the evolutionary connections between all forms of life.
In the book, Lorenz uses the mirror as a simple model of the human brain that reflects the part of the stream of information from the outside world it is able to "see".
Bowler and Janet Browne's two-volume biography, Charles Darwin: Voyaging (1995) and Charles Darwin: The Power of Place (2002).
Desmond Morris, the author, who had been the curator of mammals at London Zoo, said his book was intended to popularise and demystify science.
Tempo and Mode earned Simpson the Daniel Giraud Elliot Medal from the National Academy of Sciences in 1944.
Lander explores similarities in the intellectual development, concerns, and impacts of Abraham Lincoln and Charles Darwin, focusing in particular on the issue of slavery in the United States, which both men influentially opposed.
These mutations can be beneficial or deleterious and are selected for or against based on that factor.
Explanatory filter: Mathematician William Dembski devised an "explanatory filter" which essentially says that if something is not clearly produced by nature or by chance then it must be the result of intelligent design.
Wilson argues that evolution has left its traces on characteristics such as generosity, self-sacrifice, worship and the use of sex for pleasure, and proposes a sociobiological explanation of homosexuality.
Another letter, from Philip Kitcher, Professor of Philosophy at Columbia University, asserted that evolution and other scientific findings "are so well supported that they count as facts".
His Darwinian theory of self-deception is arguably his most provocative and interesting idea so far.
Because contragrade changes are driven by external interactions with another changing system, contragrade causes can be seen as analogous to Aristotle's efficient cause.
She argued that the female lion’s reproductive system represented a higher degree of biological complexity than the male's mane or muscle mass.
Reception Neil Tappen, writing in the American Journal of Physical Anthropology, wrote that the book "brings together the findings of a versatile investigator who has been working many years to interpret the hominid-bearing cave deposits in South Africa.
Everhart also covers the discovery of the fossils and geographic records as well as the competition between E.
References External links Supplementary Information to Dinosaurs: The Most Complete, Up-to-Date Encyclopedia for Dinosaur Lovers of All Ages by Thomas R.
After all, the first antibiotic, penicillin, was developed, heroically, by Florey and Chain as recently as the Second World War.
In addition to maintaining Darwin Online, van Wyhe had an interest in the history of phrenology and has given talks on this in Britain, France, and Germany.
In a second review, Scott again points out that the book is anti-evolution, that Johnson's arguments are recycled from scientific creationism.
At the rear of the book is a 53-page Classification list which lists every genus known at the time of publication, along with locality and stratigraphic range.
For a long time, apart from the discussion in his biography of his father, the only widely read though oblique references to the book were to be found in Father and Son, the psychological portrait of Philip Gosse by his son Edmund Gosse published in 1907.
Dr Tatiana receives letters from various creatures about their sex lives, and responds by explaining the biology of sex to creatures concerned.
The concept of extended phenotype has been generalized in an organism-centered view of evolution with the concept of niche construction, in the case where natural selection pressures can be modified by the organisms during the evolutionary process.
A few points will suffice to show how similar Deloria is to outspoken creationist author Duane Gish or any of his ilk." Michael D.
Specifically the church of England spoke out against the book, while liberal Anglicans supported his theory as an instrument used by God.
It examines animal suffering across evolutionary history as a form of natural evil, within the context of the problem of evil.
[the facts] are intelligible if we admit their descent from a common ancestor, together with their subsequent adaptation to diversified conditions...
"The Chimpanzee's Tale" is about comparative genomics, specifically the comparison of human and chimpanzee genomes.
Whether meaning to or not, we are deciding which evolutionary pathways will be shut off forever, and which can be left open to flourish.
Summary Full House aims to explain to the general reader how misconceptions about statistics can lead people to misunderstand the role variation plays in driving trends in complex systems.
Human intelligence, he suggests, is used primarily to attract mates through prodigious displays of wit, charm, inventiveness, and individuality.
Mathematics and Experimental Science The book extolls the natural sciences and the role played by experience in developing the natural sciences.
Creationists mentioned in the book include George Frederick Wright, Louis Agassiz, John William Dawson, George D.
The term is abstract and the concept is impossible to prove with a controlled scientific experiment; as Lima-de-Faria states it 'Selection cannot be weighed or poured into a vial.
For example, Bergson's term "duration" refers to a more individual, subjective experience of time, as opposed to mathematical, objectively measurable "clock time." In Creative Evolution, Bergson suggests that the experience of time as "duration" can best be understood through intuition.
Kenyon believed that proteins were directly formed by attraction between amino acids without DNA coding, and that these were derivatives from non-living raw chemicals in a conducive environment.
Wilson describes On Human Nature as a sequel to his earlier books The Insect Societies (1971) and Sociobiology: The New Synthesis (1975).
Davey described Better-World Philosophy as Moore's first major work, observing that contemporary reviews, though mixed, often remarked on his bold style and intensity of opinion.
The rise of archosaurs as one of the predominant groups is highlighted, along with their competitors, the therapsids.
Moore was also connected to the broader humanitarian movement of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, which aimed to improve the treatment of both animals and humans.
But, fascinatingly, they got better in different ways – that is, different tribes developed different sets of mutations.” Lenski's student Zachary Blount found that one strain evolved the ability to digest citrate.
[Foreword by Richard Darwin Keynes] (Cambridge University Press, forthcoming July 2009, with Gordon Chancellor and Kees Rookmaaker).
In the second part of his book, Wade proposes that regional differences in evolution of social behavior explain many differences among different human societies around the world.
Mammoths, Sabertooths, and Hominids: 65 Million Years of Mammalian Evolution in Europe is a book written by Jordi Agustí and illustrated by Mauricio Antón.
The 2002 series was an international co-production, involving the Franco-German channel Arte, the German ZDF, the Austrian ORF, the Italian MFE - MediaForEurope (via their Mediaset division), and the American Animal Planet and Discovery Channel.
For instance, the apex predator of the South American pampas, the coelurosaurian "cutlasstooth", has evolved huge, cutting teeth to allow it to prey upon large sauropods.
Overview The book's particular focus is on a criticism of current models of migration to the New World, in particular the Bering land bridge theory.
The foreword to the English version was written by one of the key advocates for natural selection and evolution of the 20th century, and a co-developer of the modern synthesis in biology, Julian Huxley.
Charles's wife Emma Darwin's correspondence was published by Charles and Emma's daughter (Frank's sister) Henrietta Litchfield in 1905/1915 as Emma Darwin: A Century of Family Letters.
Wilfred Elders said that "The book is remarkable because it has 23 co-authors who comprise a veritable 'Who's Who' in creationism.
The Red Queen: Sex and the Evolution of Human Nature is a popular science book by Matt Ridley exploring the evolutionary psychology of sexual selection.
Further ideas presented in the book that had little to no evidence in the 1980s but has since been found in the fossil record include semi-aquatic dinosaurs, arctic dinosaurs, and dinosaurs subjected to insular dwarfism.
The geologic record shows that ancient lifeforms such as marine reptiles, pteranodons, and toothed birds inhabited the general area both in and out of the water.
Hughes wrote that the basic idea behind the book "seems to be that there are certain laws of form built into the universe which somehow determine the development of organisms as well as a number of abiotic processes", but the definition of autoevolution was never made clear.
In an attempt to find a solution to the philosophical problems associated with teleological explanations, Deacon returns to Aristotle's four causes and attempts to modernize them with thermodynamic concepts.
It considers how across species, females are more careful in selecting their mates than males (they invest far more energy into each offspring).
In this work, Teilhard describes evolution as a process that leads to increasing complexity, culminating in the unification of consciousness.
According to Tucker, many academics who received the book unsolicited were outraged at its content, calling it "racial pornography" and a "vile piece of work"; at least one insisting on returning it to the publisher.
It is about men." Years later Knight and his wife are taking their granddaughter Rhoda to the American Museum of Natural History.
Engels uses this framework to suggest that humanity must transcend the ecologically destructive patterns of capitalism, and progress to a mode of production that operates in harmony with nature.
Chapters Cosmic Mirror: The questions of who and what humans are explored in terms of the history of the universe, life and humankind as when looking in a mirror.
The two groups used such different methods and terminology that it was difficult for them to communicate.
He then describes the geographical distribution of organisms, arguing that this was created by long-distance dispersal of pioneer organisms, such as insects blown across the sea.
The Seven Daughters of Eve: The Science That Reveals Our Genetic Ancestry is a 2001 semi-fictional book by Bryan Sykes that presents the science of human origin in Africa and their dispersion to a general audience.
References External links Harvard's promotional page Charlie Rose, March 1, 1994 - Gould discusses the purpose of the book Of Beauty and Consolation - Gould on writing Structure
The book was reviewed in the British Quarterly Review, Journal of Mental Science and the Quarterly Journal of Science.
Environmental impact and extinction (part five) Here the argument is that civilizations sometimes get caught up in internal superiority contests, and deplete the environment to such an extent that they may never recover.
It was published in 2009, dubbed "Darwin Year" as it marked the bicentennial of Charles Darwin and the hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the publication of his On the Origin of Species By Means of Natural Selection.
Chapman, writing for Nature, stated that Alvarez's "slim" book can be read "in a single sitting and I recommend it highly – if only as a jumping-off point to other perspectives on this dramatic scientific revolution." In a review for Scientific American of T.
The Selfish Genius: How Richard Dawkins Rewrote Darwin's Legacy is a 2009 book by Fern Elsdon-Baker about the history of evolutionary theory, published to coincide with the 150th anniversary of the publication of Charles Darwin's On the Origin of Species.
The designers of these animals (Weta Workshop) were inspired by Dixon's works, in particular The New Dinosaurs.
Boucher places Kropotkin's book as a precursor to the development of the biological theory of altruism.
The book then describes the influence of creationism in churches and in countries outside the United States, and the rise of the intelligent design movement, before concluding with a chapter on creationism's global impact.
The book is a journey through 65 million years of palaeontological records, from the extinction of the dinosaurs to just before present.
See also Evolutionary biology External links Description by Princeton U Press Contemporary review by R.A.
References External links New York Times May 11, 1997 (Review) Jack Hirshleifer (1997) UCLA Working Paper 771 (Review) L.
After the fossil was Uncovered on July 4, 1899, team member Arthur Coggeshall joked that it should be called "Star-Spangled Dinosaur" because of its July 4 "birthday".
Others whose writings as prominent scientists were listed in the book's bibliography were Sir Arthur Eddington, Ernst Haeckel, Sir Julian Huxley, Sir James Jeans and A.
See also Biology and sexual orientation On Aggression The Two Cultures The Social Conquest of Earth References Bibliography Books Journals Online articles External links Description of the book at Harvard University Press On Human Nature at Open Library
Rushton uses averages of hundreds of studies, modern and historical, to assert the existence of this pattern.
Symbolic thought and language The reasons for the unique cognitive capacity of humans are explored, along with those for the large number of human activities impossible for animals.
The book is divided into seven chapters, each supplemented with illustrations regarding the prominent animals and plants in each time and area.
Challenges to natural selection There were serious scientific objections to the process of natural selection as the key mechanism of evolution, including Carl Nägeli's insistence that a trivial characteristic with no adaptive advantage could not be developed by selection.
In an article in New Republic, Leon Wieseltier argued that Nagel was "not denounced for being wrong, but also for being heretical." Philosopher Gary Gutting noted that despite the argumentative failings of the book, Nagel developed the idea of an "atheism that is anti-materialist".
In South Africa, Walking with Cavemen footage was filmed in the Southern Kalahari Desert, the Augrabies Falls National Park and the Orange River regions.
Both Dale and Georgi had a background in documentary filmmaking and had, among other projects, previously worked together on the 2001 documentary film The Human Body.
--- Parts K and L refer to cephalopods with external shells, including ammonites and Nautilus-like creatures.
These effects are all the effects that the gene (or replicator) has on the world at large, not just in the body of the organism in which it is contained.
Kolbert explains that, even though ammonites were 'fit' for their current environment, a single moment can completely change which traits are advantageous and which are lethal.
Content Kropotkin emphasizes the distinction between competitive struggle between individual organisms over limited resources and collective struggle between organisms and the environment.
Beginning just before the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event, Black's book focuses on the aftermath of the asteroid impact and the way that life came back in the million years following the death of the dinosaurs.
Inspired by the science fiction works of Olaf Stapledon and Edward Gibbon's The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, Kösemen worked on All Tomorrows from 2003 to the publication of the book as a free PDF file online in 2006.
He examines the magnificent achievements of civilised society, the sublime explorations that make up science and the humanities, as well as the horrible behaviours of this same society such as war, slavery and rape.
In the arena of efficacy he explores the forces beside natural selection that have been considered in evolutionary theory.
Eugenie Scott wrote that, in her opinion, the book "teaches little that is accurate about either the nature of science, or the topic of evolution.
Dinosaurs (The Most Complete, Up-to-Date Encyclopedia for Dinosaur Lovers of All Ages) is a book by Thomas R.
Norman, John Stanton McIntosh and Peter Galton on controversial theropods, sauropods, and prosauropods respectively were noted as particularly exhaustive.
Over the period from 10,000 BC to AD 1, the world population increased about a hundredfold - estimates range from 40 to 170 times.
He lectures and broadcasts on Darwin, evolution, science and religion and the history of science around the world.
Darwin closely followed the events of the American Civil War and wanted Lincoln and the Union to prevail, but it is unlikely that Lincoln read Darwin's work.
This discovery was in direct opposition to the theory of gradualism, the leading belief of the period that evolutionary change occurred slowly across large time periods, rather than in bursts of short, distinct events, a theory known as catastrophism.
It was originally published in hardcover in Great Britain by HarperCollins Publishers, under the title Life: An Unauthorised Biography.
Hall, Evolution & Development Book review – by Dan Graur, The Quarterly Review of Biology Notes External links Frozen Evolution - available online
Reception Grandmother Fish got mostly positive reviews by reviewers such as School Library Journal, Steven Pinker, and Jonathan Haidt.
The Evolution of Melanism: a study of recurring necessity; with special reference to industrial melanism in the Lepidoptera is a 1973 science book by the lepidopterist Bernard Kettlewell.
These physical factors include differential adhesion of cells and feedback oscillations between cells.
Fisher's book, The Genetical Theory of Selection (1930) emphasized the importance of sexual production and genetic recombination in evolution.
Oktar himself maintains the giveaways were "normal public relations", funded by profits from sales of his books.
(2010), "Whole-genome resequencing reveals loci under selection during chicken domestication", Nature, 464 (7288): 547–591, Bibcode:2010Natur.464..587R, doi:10.1038/nature08832, PMID 20220755.
In 1953, Clair Patterson used lead-uranium dating to determine the age of the Canyon Diablo meteorite, which has existed since the formation of the solar system.
The book proposed a version of orthogenesis in place of Darwin's mechanism of natural selection, suggesting that evolution is motivated by the élan vital, a "vital impetus" that can also be understood as humanity's natural creative impulse.
This book, and Morris's earlier book The Naked Ape, are two of the early works in the field of sociobiology, which have both contributed much to contemporary understandings of society.
Thus, from the war of nature, from famine and death, the most exalted object which we are capable of conceiving, namely, the production of the higher animals, directly follows.
In the book, Miller examines the battle between evolution and intelligent design (ID), and explores the implications of the battle for science in America.
Morgan admitted in 2003 that the book "was a thoroughly unscientific romp riddled with errors and convenient conclusions".
yet natural selection - that aspect of the theory that made divine intervention unnecessary - he could not accept.
External links Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology, Volumes A through W, 1953 to the present.: Home page sponsored by The Paleontological Institute at the University of Kansas.
Darwin on Trial became a central text of the intelligent design movement, and Johnson has been described as the "father of ID".
More sinister examples come from evolutionary arms races: a predator evolves a venom, the prey evolves an antidote, causing the predator to evolve a more potent poison, causing the prey to evolve a more effective antidote, and so on.
A modern carp is not an ancestor to a frog; frogs are not ancestors to turtles; turtles are not ancestors to rabbits.
Its publication was timed to coincide with the centenary of Charles Darwin's birth and reflected the intellectual climate of the early 20th century, when Marxists took a keen interest in the natural sciences.
trumpets its connections to information theory, biochemistry and molecular biology, Miller concludes, as did Judge John Jones in Kitzmiller v.
But then the "opposite ongoing integration" was promoted by another faction as an alternative in 2007.
"The Part Played by Labour in the Transition from Ape to Man" (German: "Anteil der Arbeit an der Menschwerdung des Affen") is an unfinished essay written by Friedrich Engels in the spring of 1876 and first published in 1896.
Such a powerful substance would transform everything it was applied to; leaving something very different in its wake.
The title of the book references a famous and oft-quoted phrase from the poem "In Memoriam A.H.H." by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.
Saira Mian, Derek Radisky and Eva Turley Genes, Cell Behavior, and the Evolution of Form, Ellen Larsen Cell Adhesive Interactions and Tissue Self-Organization, Malcolm Steinberg Gradients, Diffusion, and Genes in Pattern Formation, H.
As an engineer, Shannon was concerned with the challenge of reliably transmitting a message from one location to another.
The insertion of Long interspersed nuclear elements and Short interspersed nuclear elements allow us to construct phylogenetic trees: “Once a SINE or a LINE is inserted, there is no active mechanism for removing it.
Steven Rose in The Guardian said that the book contains "one of the most interesting stories modern biology has to tell".
The Making of the Fittest: DNA and the Ultimate Forensic Record of Evolution is a science book by Sean B.
Wallace gives a detailed counter-example to refute Poulton's argument, arguing that "really beautiful combinations of colour and marking" are found on the sea shells of molluscs "where sexual selection has certainly not come into play".
A Darwinian Left: Politics, Evolution and Cooperation is a 1999 book by the philosopher Peter Singer.
The book has been examined as an example of Pioneer's funding of scientific racism, while psychologist Michael Howe has identified the book as part of a movement, begun in the 1990s, to promote a racial agenda in social policy.
Puncturing punctualism Dawkins examines the punctuated equilibrium theory of Niles Eldredge and Stephen Jay Gould.
References Bibliography External links The Genetical Theory Of Natural Selection at the Internet Archive The Genetical Theory Of Natural Selection
In 1896, it was recommended in The Intelligence, an education journal, as a book every primary geography teacher should own and read.
Even when socialized, this relation remains the same in principle, but is complicated by conscious interdependence among individuals.
Reception Stuart Sumida, writing in The Quarterly Review of Biology, stated that "The authors make a valiant attempt to clear locality and phylogenetic perspectives, but it is a mixed bag.
List of contributions Origination of Organismal Form: The Forgotten Cause in Evolutionary Theory, Gerd B.
The Red Queen was one of seven books shortlisted for the 1994 Rhône-Poulenc Prize (now known as the Royal Society Prizes for Science Books), that was eventually won by Steve Jones' The Language of the Genes.
It is designed for paleontology graduate courses in biology and geology as well as for the interested layman.
He commended the book for examining through the lens of evolution the discipline whose central theory is the theory of evolution, writing that it "turns the scholarly component of Darwinian method reflexively onto the evolution of the very disciplines that make up evolutionary theory".
In 1992, researcher David Unwin echoed the same sentiment, viewing four-legged and grass-eating pterosaurs as highly unlikely.
The other key works of the modern synthesis, whose publication also followed their authors' Jesup lectures, are Theodosius Dobzhansky's Genetics and the Origin of Species, Ernst Mayr's Systematics and the Origin of Species and George Gaylord Simpson's Tempo and Mode in Evolution.
The rearrangement into taxonomy first reflects how the taxonomic revisions impact the interpretations of biogeography, paleoecology, and function.
Denton suggested that these data undermined the notion that fish were ancestral to frogs, which were ancestral to reptiles, which were ancestral to birds and mammals.
Although previous authors had recognized the importance of isolation, their reasons were entirely different from his.
Kropotkin considers the importance of mutual aid for prosperity and survival in the animal kingdom, in indigenous and early European societies, in the medieval free cities (especially through the guilds), and in the late 19th century village, labor movement, and impoverished people.
It mentions that "Aryan" culture was most likely the result of interaction, adoption, and adaptation among those who brought Indo-European languages to India and those who were already well-settled inhabitants of the region, and that Sanskrit and the Vedas developed in the Indian subcontinent.
Thought forms are spontaneously generated, and task of problem solving is the task of molding those forms to fit the context of the problem at hand.
Synopsis The book was precised by his son Edmund Gosse: Life is a circle, no one stage of which more than any other affords a natural commencing-point.
Structure and form: Importantly, this is not just the macro scale propagation of random micro vibrations from one system to another.
Darwin states: "It has often been vaguely asserted that plants are distinguished from animals by not having the power of movement.
There are also various dromaeosaurids, including the "jinx", adapted to mimic larger herbivorous dinosaurs through scent and appearance.
Although he avoids drawing any specific political points, Ridley ends his book by arguing for a smaller state operating on a more local level.
Reception The book was well reviewed by The New York Times, with Carl Zimmer calling it "a fascinating account." The book made the paper's Sunday Book Review Editors' Choice List.
Block criticized parts of the book, but concluded Wade's "moral and intellectual courage cannot be denied".
Evolution of the Vertebrates, subtitled "A History of the Backboned Animals Through Time", is a basic paleontology textbook by Edwin H.
2 2012 Michael Chorost, "Where Thomas Nagel Went Wrong" The Chronicle of Higher Education May 13, 2013
by Morris and Gary Parker, Kenyon said that he no longer accepted the pro-evolution arguments in Biochemical Predestination.
He shows that chromosomal translocation, a rearrangement of parts in chromosomes, accounts for racial differences in Datura stramonium (jimson-weed).
Darwin's sources on emotional expression Darwin attended debates about psychology at the Plinian Society in December 1826 and March 1827 as a medical student at Edinburgh University.
No Struggle for Existence, No Natural Selection: A Critical Examination of the Fundamental Principles of the Darwinian Theory is a 1908 book by George Paulin.
Analysis In the preface to Darwinism, Wallace had used the term pure-Darwinism which proposed a "greater efficacy" for natural selection.
Paul even went on to state that he considered pterosaurs surviving into the Cenozoic "doubtful" even if the extinction event had not happened.
Evolution Without Evidence: Charles Darwin and "The Origin of Species" Gale explores Darwin's inexperience in botany and zoology as they pertain to his theory.
Morris and Gary Parker, Kenyon said that he no longer accepted the pro-evolution arguments in Biochemical Predestination.
Vertebrate Paleontology and Evolution is an advanced textbook on vertebrate paleontology by Robert L.
Humans are exceptionally good at picking up various verbal and physical cues (e.g., speech intonation, eye movements,...) that indicate when another human is practicing deception.
He thought that 2009, the bicentennial of Charles Darwin and sesquicentennial of his On the Origin of Species, was the perfect time for such a work.
These findings began to show that the positive or negative selection in Darwinian evolution was too simplistic to describe every evolutionary process.
The book also states that front-to-front sexual intercourse evolved from apes that lived in a semi-aquatic environment and details how the adaptations to that environment changed the female genitalia, making it so that the former rear-entry position was used less often.
His writing style is clear and unpretentious, and his text is well supported by illustrations and tables." == References ==
At the time of writing Marxism and Darwinism, Pannekoek belonged to the left wing of social democracy.
Deacon defines three hierarchically nested levels of thermodynamic systems: Homeodynamic systems combine to produce morphodynamic systems which combine to produce teleodynamic systems.
A new edition of his 2008 biography of Darwin, Darwin: The Man, His Great Voyage, and His Theory of Evolution, appeared under the banner of the Natural History Museum in 2018.
The book is divided into several shorter chapters, each telling a short story and featuring illustrations of the local animals and their interactions and relations to humans.
He proposed the abolition of extra allowances to large families, with the allowances proportional to the earnings of the father.
These are followed by chapters entitled; Life history strategies and the size game, Honesty, bargaining and commitment and The evolution of cooperation.
Kettlewell also shows other cases, such as his experiments in the Shetland Islands with Lasiocampa quercus (‘Recessive melanic plymorphisms’) and Amanthes glareosa (‘Northern melanism’) (Kettlewell et al., 1969).
The second wave of migration took a more northerly course, splitting somewhere in the area around what is now called Syria to sweep to interior Asia, where it split several more times in Central Asia, north of Afghanistan.
Fifty years after its publication, the National Academy of Sciences commissioned a book entitled Tempo and Mode in Evolution: Genetics and Paleontology 50 Years After Simpson edited by Walter M.
Evolution: A Theory in Crisis is a 1985 book by Michael Denton, in which the author argues that the scientific theory of evolution by natural selection is a "theory in crisis".
Silent mutations are invisible to natural selection but not to biologists, who use them as molecular clocks to see when species split.
He criticizes the State for destroying historically important mutual aid institutions, particularly through the imposition of private property.
Richard Lewontin (1996) argued that in claiming the existence of "major races", and that these categories reflected large biological differences, "Rushton moves in the opposite direction from the entire development of physical anthropology and human genetics for the last thirty years.
The Life and Letters of Charles Darwin is a book published in 1887 edited by Francis Darwin about his father Charles Darwin.
New developments in all three areas forced him to reconsider these positions in the late 1850s and early 1860s, and became the subject matter for Antiquity of Man.
But within Africa, isolation would have been geographically aided primarily by the Sahara Desert, leaving people in areas not separated by the desert to travel and migrate relatively freely.
Wiley-Blackwell Publisher's Website and Book Overview: 3rd edition Archived 2013-10-04 at the Wayback Machine, edition Benton, M.
They do not.We are in full agreement that there is no support from the field of population genetics for Wade's conjectures.
Man After Man is Dixon's third work on speculative evolution, following After Man (1981) and The New Dinosaurs (1988).
Adding new lines (or removing them) based on these rules offered a discrete set of possible new shapes (mutations), which were displayed on screen so that the user could choose between them.
The tone is lighthearted but not overdone, with humorous shifts of facial expressions and postures as the world changes with each page turn.
Kowalewska and Michał Kowalewski writing in Palaeontologia Electronica found that "The compendium’s encyclopedic scope makes the guide necessarily akin to a cookbook.
"There is grandeur in this view of life" is a close reading of the final passage of On the Origin of Species.
Creative Evolution (French: L'Évolution créatrice) is a 1907 book by French philosopher Henri Bergson.
After 40,000,000 years of domination, the Qu leave the galaxy, leaving the altered humans to evolve on their own in the environments and worlds they were left with under the effects of natural selection.
Influence The Genetic Basis of Evolutionary Change has been retrospectively described as a "landmark book".
The book has been widely denounced by the scientific community for misrepresenting research into human population genetics.
Next come (i) one or two representative species illustrated by line drawings (in the early volumes) or by black-and-white photographs (in subsequent volumes), each accompanied by an appropriate reference for that genus.
Flowering Plants: Evolution Above the Species Level is a book written by evolutionary biologist and botanist G.
Summarizing the Dawkins-Gould difference of view, Sterelny says: Gould thinks gene differences do not cause evolutionary changes in populations, they register those changes.
What emboldens you to assert that wasps are so hard to fool that the orchid's resemblance would have to be perfect in all dimensions in order to work?
For example, the difference between the amino acid sequence for the cytochrome C of a carp and those of a frog, turtle, chicken, rabbit, and horse is a very constant 13% to 14%.
Chapter 20, Politics The sheep brain disease scrapie appeared to be infectious but did not involve a microorganism.
Notice, for example, that whereas competition plays a central role in the explanation of every bona fide Darwinian selection, it plays no role at all in explaining how Sober’s machine sorts for round marbles.
Ice World: 5 million years in the future The early episodes describe a world after an ice age, when giant seal-like sea-birds roam the beaches and carnivorous bats rule the skies.
Dispelling the Darkness: Voyage in the Malay Archipelago and the Discovery of Evolution by Wallace and Darwin.
Drawing on this comparison, Wrangham and Peterson examine the evolutionary origins of male violence, linking it to patterns of competition and alliance observed in chimpanzees.
." "If [scientific] conclusions contradict the Word of God, the conclusions are wrong, no matter how many scientific facts may appear to back them." "Christians must disregard [scientific hypotheses or theories] that contradict the Bible." (Phillips Decl.
Blackwell argued that Jablonka and Lamb propose a new theory of evolution based on the four dimensions they describe, but fail to detail what exactly such a theory would look like.
It presents the Young Earth creationist perspective that the canyon is no more than a few thousand years old and was formed by the Global Flood or Noachian flood of the Bible.
It was described in a 1998 review by palaeontologist Mark Purnell as being uniquely inclusive in its coverage of the subject, going into detail about the history of the science as well as methodology and other aspects.
but on current scientific evidence." In the largest study of human mating at the time, 10,047 people were surveyed in 37 cultures across six continents and five islands.
He concludes that our unique consciousness has given us the power to shape evolution, and also made us the only animal to figure out how it came to be.
Lyell's presentation and endorsement of the new evidence for human antiquity firmly established the theory as scientific orthodoxy.
What happened 10,000 years ago in the Fertile Crescent was the raising of sea level at the end of the last ice age over a relatively short period of time.
It follows 565 million years of human evolution, from shrewlike mammals 65 million years in the past to the ultimate fate of humanity and its descendants, both biological and non-biological, 500 million years in the future.
The text printed in Life and Letters was edited by Darwin's son Francis Darwin, who removed several passages about Darwin's critical views of God and Christianity.
"But macroevolution is not just microevolution scaled up; Gould's paleontological perspective offers real insights into mass extinction and its consequences, and, perhaps, the nature of species and speciation".
Haldane (1990 edition ISBN 0-691-02442-1), based on a series of January 1931 lectures entitled "A Re-examination of Darwinism".
The book describes Pääbo's research into the DNA of Neanderthals, extinct hominins that lived across much of Europe and the Middle East.
Mate choice can lead to sexual conflict when female sexual autonomy and male sexual control collide.
Reception Horace Freeland Judson praised the book for its extremely extensive coverage which he likened to an encyclopaedia.
Originally published by Columbia University Press in 1974, the book originated in a series of lectures, known as the "Jesup lectures", that Lewontin gave at Columbia University in 1969.
He holds various academic and research positions, ranging from founder and director of The Complete Works of Charles Darwin Online, Scientific Associate, The Natural History Museum (London), a Fellow of the Linnean Society and a Member of the British Society for the History of Science.
Each successive change in the gradual evolutionary process was simple enough, relative to its predecessor, to have arisen by chance.
In England, at this time Ronald Fisher was working at the Rothamsted Experimental, and he developed statistical ways to analyze inheritance and variation in experiments within agriculture.
Critics found it difficult to accept a "directed" mechanism for changes in cytochrome C that were neutral, producing different proteins whose action was the same.
Plaintiffs' own biology expert, Professor Michael Behe, testified that "it is personally abusive and pedagogically damaging to de facto require students to subscribe to an idea.
Moore holds that this relation mirrors what any individual would wish for themselves: a harmony of interests across the animate universe.
Following his retirement in 1957, Fisher moved to Adelaide, Australia, where he worked and published articles until his passing on July 29, 1962.
However, one class of animals we know did die out because of the effects of the asteroid's impact, are the ammonites.
He concludes that game theory (the mathematical study of strategy) and experiments in psychology offer hope that self-interested people will make short-term sacrifices for the good of others, if society provides the right conditions.
The book is one of a series of long essays by respected contemporary Darwinian thinkers, which were published under the collective title Darwinism Today.
A brief account of his visit to the Galápagos Islands brings up the issue of human origins, leading into a discussion of early theories on the formation and age of the Earth and evolution.
However, Moore critiques the persistence of anthropocentric ethics, which place human interests above all other forms of life, often justifying the exploitation and mistreatment of animals.
The prehistoric invertebrates are described as to their taxonomy, morphology, paleoecology, stratigraphic and paleogeographic range.
The "kraken", an enormous ammonite, uses specialized tentacles to entangle and sting anything that comes near it.
Other primates crowded into such a space would react by, in Hawks' words, "ripping one another limb from limb".
As scientific, and non-scientific readers came increasingly to accept the Darwinian concept of common ancestry for species, the view that natural selection was the primary mechanism was often sidelined or rejected.
Specifically, Engels emphasizes the importance of humans’ opposable thumbs and phonetically dynamic mouths, which enabled them to articulate complex forms of language over time.
Reception The book has been widely denounced by scientists, including many of those whose work is cited in the book itself.
Additionally, establishing the experiments that subsequently influenced agricultural biology and genetics.
The book’s central metaphor describes complex adaptations, which evolve gradually through a series of intermediates.
Nature Red in Tooth and Claw: Theism and the Problem of Animal Suffering is a 2008 book by Michael J.
But reviews agree that the book is compelling, well written, and an excellent primer on how evolution works.
Reception The philosopher Philip Kitcher has criticised the book's handling of sociobiology, saying that it contains "credulous retailing of sociobiological speculations" while noting that "much of this book is admirable in its clarity, directness, and grasp of central points".
Wallace made fun of the book in the notes of the 1897 edition of Tennyson's The Princess: "When the man wants weight, the woman takes it up,/And topples down the scales".
At the acme of their highly advanced civilization, just as they are about to create a superior human species through "artificial evolution", a protracted war with the Martians finally ends with the Martians extinct and the Second Men gone into eclipse.
The history of the theory of human evolution as currently understood is then presented, with sections on the work of Mendel, the development of the science of genetics, and the Scopes Trial.
The Major Transitions in Evolution is a book written by John Maynard Smith and Eörs Szathmáry (Oxford University Press, 1995).
Paulin himself espouses Lamarckism in the body of his book, though without at any time considering, or even perceiving, the difficulties involved in it." References External links No Struggle for Existence, No Natural Selection Online at Internet Archive.
Their object is simply to indicate a few facts favourable to this theory, collected upon the same South American ground, on which, as Darwin tells us, the idea first occurred to him of devoting his attention to ‘the origin of species, — that mystery of mysteries.
He addresses his own opinion of future evolution and compares it with Dougal Dixon's After Man: A Zoology of the Future and H.
This unified selection and hereditary, with the guidance of natural selection, population and mutation.
Newman Phenotypic Plasticity and Evolution by Genetic Assimilation, Vidyanand Nanjundiah Genetic and Epigenetic Factors in the Origin of the Tetrapod Limb, Günter P.
[as] in modern scientific man, evolution was at last becoming conscious of itself[.] [...] Teilhard...
Summary The New Dinosaurs explores an imagined alternate version of the present-day Earth as Dixon imagines it would have been if the Cretaceous-Paleogene extinction event had never occurred.
The fossil was discovered and eventually acquired by a team from the Carnegie Museum of Natural History during an expedition to the badlands of Wyoming.
This allows the acceptance of data verifying short term evolutionary processes while still maintaining that God created the species.
In providing evidence of psychical evolution, Moore argues that mental faculties have evolved in animals just as physical traits have, with different species demonstrating abilities like problem-solving, social structures, and communication skills.
Facts and Arguments for Darwin is an 1864 book on evolutionary biology by the German biologist Fritz Müller, originally published in German under the title Für Darwin ("For Darwin"), and translated into English by William Sweetland Dallas in 1869.
The more they farm, the more their population rises and the more they are obliged to farm, because only by farming can they feed the extra mouths." References External links Yale Press.edu: Short summary of the book Edge.org: Biography of Colin Tudge Archived 2003-02-02 at the Wayback Machine
As usual, he conflates science with scientism and evolution with evolutionism, materialism, and atheism." The book is said by Arthur M.
As 1872 began, Mivart politely inflamed the argument again, writing "wishing you very sincerely a happy new year" while wanting a disclaimer of the "fundamental intellectual errors" in the Descent of Man.
It also contains information boxes which clarify important topics in science like peer review, scientific journals, citation metrics, philosophy of science, paradigm shifts, and Occam's razor.
References External links Prehistoric Life: The Definitive Visual History of Life on Earth at Amazon.com
At the end of World War II, many people believed that scientific advancements had the potential to solve various societal problems.
The sculpture is sited prominently on Schenley Plaza outside the museum, while the original fossil still stands indoors in Dinosaur Hall.
Crow, for example, argued that the Columbia employees who chose to describe the book in this way "should have their wrists slapped", adding, "...this is not the Origin of Species.
In 2014, a substantially unchanged 20th-anniversary edition e-book was issued with a preface by the author.
The illustrations are splendidly done; at least one picture on every page features the topic at hand in vivid detail.
Arthur Mitchell, Henry Holt and Company 1944, Modern Library, Random House 1998, Dover Publications, ISBN 0-486-40036-0 2005, Cosimo Classics, ISBN 0-7607-6548-0 See also Emergent evolution Homo faber External links Discussion of Creative Evolution (from the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy).
He explains that by any measure, the most common organisms have always been, and still are, the bacteria.
Shannon's work is widely credited with ushering in the Information Age, but somewhat paradoxically, it was completely silent on questions of meaning and reference, i.e., what the information is about.
The majority of the illustrations in Greenworld were done by Dixon himself, though some images were also produced by other artists such as Julius T.
Reception The book received reviews from publications including Isis, Rocks & Minerals, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, and Booklist.
Before this final devastation, many refugees manage to escape to the Moon, Mars, and Asterome, an orbiting colony situated inside a hollowed-out asteroid at the Moon's L5 point.
These Jesup lectures by Ernst Mayr and Edgar Anderson were meant as a follow-up to Theodosius Dobhanzky's own Jesup lectures in 1936 which resulted in his book Genetics and the Origin of Species, published in 1937.
Sober argues that while ball size and color are coextensive, it is clear that the selection-for is for the size, not the color.
The case was brought to the European Court by several members of the Estamirov family together with the British solicitor Gareth Peirce and the organization Russian Justice Initiative.
The pilot headed away from the attack but took care that he was not over the sea before ordering the crew to bale out.
Situated in a plaza, this modest memorial pays tribute to the victims who were held at this facility.
Between 31 May and 8 June 1978, the Argentine government kidnapped a score of RL militants, the most important being Rafael Tello, Pablo Tello, Elsa Martínez, Hernán Ramírez Achinelli, "Melena" Edison Oscar Cantero Freire and "el Pata" Fernando Díaz Cárdenas.
On November 20, 2005, roughly 20,000 protesters attended the vigil, "remembering those who have been silenced by SOA violence".
Further, he believed the training served to "increase respect for United States foreign policy goals and the United States concept of military-civilian relationships at the national level".
On 7 May he was killed along with Olim Zarobekov at the government-run Radio House in Dushanbe, according to the Union of Journalists of Tajikistan.
It was recently applied by the Chilean Supreme Court in December 2007." While Pinochet was detained under house arrest on October 30, 2006, over "charges including murder, torture, and kidnapping in the years following his 1973 coup, he was never formally convicted.
Origins Warsaw was considered by the Germans to be the centre of Polish resistance against the Nazi "New Order".
Russia was a European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of the February 5, 2000, Novye Aldi massacre in Chechnya, which unanimously held Russia responsible for violations of Articles 2 (right to life) and 13 (right to effective remedy) of the European Convention of Human Rights.
A special commando team from Argentina worked in conjunction with Somoza's OSN (Office of National Security) and its Argentine advisors with the objective of capturing exiled squadrons from the ERP and the Montoneros.
Although he was already older, he joined the group and performed in the institute's orchestra, where he played the violin and prepared talks for various ceremonies.
Early life Al-Gashey was a former student of nursing in University of Tripoli, Libya and had won a scholarship to study chemistry at the American University of Beirut.
Prisoner of war Flying operationally with No.72 Squadron, Birkland was pilot of Spitfire Mark Vb serial W3367 on the afternoon of 7 November 1941 on a Rodeo mission over the coast of occupied Europe.
He was last seen on 14 April 1944 in the Danzig area and was probably seized by the Gestapo, disappearing in captivity.
It appeared that the suspects were on a reconnaissance-mission and had parked their car to save a space for the actual car containing the explosives.
According to the police, Fahim was killed while in custody after a group of militants opened fire on them.
Later in 1811, Rodríguez was elected parliamentary representative for Talca on 4 September, appointed Secretary of War on 15 November and conscripted into the army on 2 December with the rank of captain.
In the 20 July plot, once the Nazis had been routed, Koch was slated to become the presiding judge of the Reichsgericht, the highest court in the German Reich.
While the term "jungle justice" is used across West and Central Africa to describe mob-led extrajudicial punishment, it is commonly studied and documented in Nigeria and Cameroon.
He is notable for the part he took in the 'Great Escape' from Stalag Luft III in March 1944 and as one of the men recaptured and subsequently shot by the Gestapo.
At Stalag Luft I Bull met Roger Bushell during various tunnelling escape attempts, Bushell later masterminded the Great Escape.
The Murder of Fred Hampton at IMDb (A 1971 documentary film directed by Howard Alk) FBI files on Fred Hampton From COINTELPRO to the Shadow Government: As Fred Hampton Jr.
In January 2016, actor Steven Schub played the part of Avraham 'Yair' Stern in the world premiere of historian Zev Golan's play The Ghosts of Mizrachi Bet Street, based on the life of Avraham Stern directed by Leah Stoller and S.
Military jurisdiction Prisoners of war Major treaties such as the Geneva Conventions and Hague Conventions, and customary international law protect the rights of captured regular or irregular enemy soldiers and civilians.
The two surviving soldiers were summarily executed by FMLN forces in one of the most infamous incidents during El Salvador's civil war.
Willy Williams and Rusty Kierath headed off and later joined up with Johnny Bull and Jerzy Mondschein to trek through the Reisengebirge mountains where they were arrested by a mountain patrol trying to cross into occupied Czechoslovakia and taken to Reichenberg prison.
On 19 November 1941 he became a pilot for the 1st Photographic Reconnaissance Unit (PRU) flying out of RAF Benson South Oxfordshire, England.
During the National Reorganization Process, prisoners were shot during "transfers", to later claim that the transport had been attacked and that they had died in the ensuing confrontation.
Impact The killings of seven journalists within the span of a year has spurred some media outlets to stop reporting on government actions and has caused others to go so far as to stop reporting entirely.
In the past, summary execution of pirates, spies, and francs-tireurs have been performed and considered legal under existing international law.
He was amongst the early groups of arrivals in late spring 1942 and he immediately began preparing to escape.
Stationed in French Indochina in 1945, he was beheaded by the Japanese during their March coup d'état.
38 Squadron RAF In August 1941 Cross succeeded in his aim to return to operational flying and was posted to No.
Over the target area they received two serious hits by anti-aircraft fire and began to limp homewards but had to ditch in the English Channel.
See also Anarchism in Argentina María Esther Biscayart de Tello, mother of Rafael and Pablo Tello References Bibliography Diz, Verónica; Trujillo, Fernando López (2007).
Erwin von Lahousen and Hans Bernd Gisevius, two of Canaris's main subordinates, survived the war and testified during the Nuremberg trials about Canaris's courage in opposing Hitler.
Power was killed almost a year later in September when the party he was with, led by Colonel Stewart, were attempting to break through a blockade.
Lemonnier was subsequently taken prisoner himself and ordered by a Japanese general to sign a document formally surrendering the forces under his command.
Because giving this assistance would expose the husband to liability, the Director of Public Prosecutions was asked to agree not to prosecute her husband.
His brother Captain Greg Kierath was serving with an Australian Anti-Tank company and was killed at Tobruk on 14 April 1941 on about the date when Kierath gained his pilot's aircrew brevet.
However, the convictions which were given to six former DINA members and two former prominent army officers in August 2023 would be described as the "final conviction" the Supreme Court of Chile would hand down for the Soria assassination.
At some point Staverman and Pattiwal separated from the others to undertake further exploration of the countryside, and were ambushed by a group of natives.
This led radicalized youth that would then form the Montoneros to embrace more radical beliefs of Camilo Torres and García Elorrio instead, with Torres arguing that "The duty of every Catholic is to be a revolutionary" and that "The Catholic who is not a revolutionary is living in mortal sin".
Five German POWs, whose uniforms were found to still have blood on them, were court-martialed for Kunze's murder.
Many Christians took shelter in the local French school; Osman's brigands abducted and raped the women and girls, killed the men and boys, and later burned the school.
Literally only needing to cross the river to Basel in neutral Switzerland he was hand-cuffed and taken to a local police station.
The fate of Paul Maitla was uncertain for number of decades, until some information was discovered in 2005 in the city archives of the Czech town of Nymburk.
On 30 September 2014 the Court denied the request to apply an interim measure against but requested the State of Azerbaijan to provide explanations and reasons for the delay.
Early life Stern was born in Suwałki, present-day Poland (then the part of Poland that was under Russian Partition).
Memorial In 2016, several former inmates in associations such as the Colectivo de Mujeres Sobrevivientes Siempre Resistentes ("Collective of surviving women always resisting") and the Sobrevivientes de Venda Sexy ("Survivors of Venda Sexy") asked the former facility to be made a national monument.
Painful Easter The repression continued and in the next days the police would imprison hundreds of agrarian workers.
A group of Jews and Belarusians, members and sympathizers of the delegalized Communist Party, all citizens of Poland, took control of the town of Skidel and some nearby locations, acquired firearms, often from skirmishes with Polish Army units and police.
Resistencia Libertaria (initially known as the Resistencia Anticapitalista Libertaria) was an Argentine anarchist urban guerrilla group that emerged in 1974 via a network of workers and university militants from La Plata and Córdoba.
Azerbaijan on 4 November 2021, pronouncing the State of Azerbaijani guilty of the breach of articles 2 and 3 (violations of the right to life and the prohibition of torture, incomplete investigation and delayed return of the body.
Originally his remains were buried at Sagan, but he is now buried in part of the Poznań Old Garrison Cemetery beside his fellow escapers.
Early life Gerald MacIntosh Johnston was born on October 1, 1904, in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada to James Macintosh Johnston and Clare Maud Mckay Johnston.
Even though he escaped the disastrous Battle of Edgcote, he was lynched by a mob at Bridgwater on 17 August 1469.
He began his primary studies in his hometown, and later continued them at the Colegio San José in Buenos Aires, run by Bayonne parents, where prominent figures from the Argentine political and business scene also studied, including former President Hipólito Yrigoyen.
Arriving at the general Cemetery along the Avenida de la Paz, the funeral became an impressive popular protest, the first since September 11 ...
Career Joining the United States Foreign Service in 1955, White served in a variety of positions at the State Department and in US delegations, primarily in Latin America.
On the morning of 29 March 1944 Jim Wernham and Nick Skantzikas were removed from the cell and then during the afternoon Doug Poynter and Pop Green.
forces prepared to depart from the staging area, a helicopter collided with a transport plane, causing a fire that killed eight servicemen.
Pinochet was at the centre of this illegal arms trade, receiving money through various offshore and front companies, including Banco Coutts International in Miami.
The brigade was also involved, with the assistance of false TTG paperwork, in the acquisition of large quantities of small arms and other martial equipment for use by the Haganah in Palestine.
Nearing the border suspicious policemen insisted on carefully examining their papers, checking their briefcases which contained newspapers and escape rations.
Richardson School of Law Library at the University of Hawaiʻi places the number of the victims of enforced disappearances under the rule of Ferdinand Marcos at 783.
Known as Guatón Romo ("Fatso Romo") or Comandante Raúl, he was one of DINA's key torturers, operating in centers such as Villa Grimaldi.
On 25 November 1975, General Augusto Pinochet's 60th birthday, leaders of the military intelligence services of Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay met with Manuel Contreras, chief of DINA (the Chilean secret police), in Santiago de Chile, officially creating the Plan Condor.
On July 18 Requejo was with his wife and son in Madridejos, reportedly preparing to travel to Puebla de Sanabria to commence summer holidays.
War service On 19 April 1940 Long commenced his service with the Royal Air Force Volunteer Reserve with service number 922353 and by 24 December 1940 had been promoted to Leading Aircraftman and awarded his pilot brevet (wings).
For example, Al-Jazeera's bureau chief in Islamabad, Ahmad Zaidan, was wrongly identified as the most probable member of al-Qaeda and the Muslim Brotherhood on their records.
49 Squadron RAF at Scampton flying Handley Page Hampdens but was severely wounded on 16 October 1940 by anti-aircraft fire over Bordeaux harbour flying Hampden L4129 on a mine laying mission.
He took control of the camp then toured the camp with a group of reporters (including war correspondent Marguerite Higgins).
The coalition HQ let the Jordanian Air Forces perform most of the air strike sorties planned for that day.
On 3 June 1996, the French criminal court found the doctor innocent as the foetus was not considered viable, and thus was not a "human person" under the French Criminal Code (then Article 319, now Articles 221—226).
He enlisted in the Polish Army before 1930 later transferring to the Polish Air Force and rising through the ranks to become a commissioned officer.
Oleksandr Kovalenko – editor-in-chief of the newspaper Social Politics (Kyiv), on 8 February was found shot dead in a forest near Zhytomyr.
As of 10 March, Oleksandr Ihorovych Matsievskyi (Ukrainian: Олександр Ігорович Мацієвський), a 42-year-old Ukrainian soldier deployed to Bakhmut in November 2022 and who also disappeared, remained a credible alternative due to contextual and visual similarities.
Casey was a member of the group of "bad lads" with Bushell who were sent to the reputedly escape proof Stalag Luft III in the province of Lower Silesia near the town of Sagan (now Żagań in Poland).
Honours Wisła Kraków Ekstraklasa: 1927, 1928 Polish Cup: 1925–26 References External links Władysław Kowalski at 90minut.pl (in Polish)
References External links Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Center for International Policy Appearances on C-SPAN
Later the Armenian authorities started investigating the possibility of his kidnapping from the Armenian territory by the Azerbaijani forces.
He was taken prisoner by the Yugoslav Partisans and shot on 5 June 1945 in Ljubljana, together with generals Gustav Fehn (XV Mountain Corps), Werner von Erdmannsdorff (LXXXXI Corps) and Heinz Kattner (Feldkommandant of Sarajevo).
From then on, the Marines returned every Saturday, forcing male villagers to take them to the women, after which the Marines would take them into the nearby hills and rape them.
Biography Mohsen Hojaji was an officer in the IRGC operating in Syria as part of an advisory team to the Syrian government forces during the Syrian Civil War.
At some point – definitely after 21 June 1450 – he married Isabel, daughter of Sir John Barre of Herefordshire.
Background On September 11, 2010 a 20-years-old resident of the Armenian village of Ttujur bordering with Azerbaijan, Manvel Saribekyan, was captured by the Azerbaijani military near the Azerbaijani village of Zamanli.
He was posthumously mentioned in despatches in June 1944, recognizing his conspicuous bravery as a prisoner because none of the other relevant decorations then available could be awarded posthumously.
During the Second Chechen War, he did not take an active part in hostilities and instead sought a negotiated end to the war on behalf of Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov.
Obama defended the use of drones as just because America "is at war with al Qaeda, the Taliban and their associated forces".
After his medical internship, Rascher worked with his now divorced father in Basel, Switzerland, and continued his medical studies there, joining the Swiss Voluntary Work Forces.
intelligence would provide the Argentine government with intelligence and logistics support for an arms interdiction program to stem the flow of military supplies to the FMLN from Cuba and Nicaragua.
In particular, the Telegram channel of the neo-Nazi Rusich Group posted a message saying: "You will be surprised how many of these videos will gradually pop up", accompanying the message with a smiley emoji.
On 23 October 1942, Koenen parachuted behind German lines at Osterode in East Prussia and made his way to Berlin to his contact, Ilse Stöbe.
After recovering, Wicker completed courses for SS leadership applicants at the SS-Junker Schools in Bad Tölz from August to November 1943.
On 19 August 1915, U-24 sank the White Star Liner SS Arabic with the loss of 44 lives – this included three Americans and resulted in a diplomatic incident between Germany and the United States.
A woman who identified herself as the soldier's sister said that her brother could "definitely stand up to the Russians like that" and that "he never hid the truth in his life, and he definitely wouldn't hide it in front of the enemy".
Herbig, Munich 2003, ISBN 3-7766-2317-9, p.242 ff Ulrich Sahm: Ilse Stöbe Die Rote Kapelle im Widerstand gegen den Nationalsozialismus.
Anunciação was set free and then dragged from his bed at night by a mob of forty people who beat him to death with bricks and clubs.
Killings by both official and unofficial security forces would climax in the late 1970s and early 1980s under the presidencies of Fernando Romeo Lucas García and Efraín Ríos Montt, with over 18,000 documented killings in 1982 alone.
But on May 30, 1944, Adams P-51B was attacked and shot down by 4 Bf-109s near Celle Air Base: he parachuted out of his aircraft and landed on the ground.
A nationwide, self-imposed media blackout also took place after the killing of Peter Moi that lasted from 8/21/15 through 11AM on 8/22/15.
The original band of ten resisters who marched onto Fort Benning and splashed blood upon the School of Americas to commemorate the first anniversary of the UCA massacre has grown in recent years to a community of 10,000.
Killing of counter admiral Quijada A few days before the inauguration of elected president Héctor Cámpora, the ERP-22 decided to launch a new action: the "Operation Mercury", whose objective was to kill Counter-admiral Hermes Quijada.
The Task Force will eventually give way to a permanent parliamentary Human Rights Commission, which will have the capacity to investigate allegations over a longer period.
On completion of basic initial training at Somers and Narrandera Catanach was posted to Canada where he learned to fly and received his pilot's wings in June 1941 being commissioned pilot officer.
However, President Jimmy Carter, who took office in January 1977, highlighted issues of human rights in Latin America, including in Argentina.
After Saribekyan's body was repatriated to Armenia on November 4, 2010 the Press Service of the Prosecutor General of Armenia informed that the forensic examination had revealed signs of torture on the body and opened a criminal investigation.
St Paul's Cathedral A ceremony was held 10 June 1888 at St Paul's Cathedral to commemorate the journalists killed during the 3 years of campaigns in Sudan and the dedication of a brass tablet, designed by Herbert Johnson listing seven journalists.
Examples United States March 20 to April 15, 1882: Wyatt Earp and Doc Holliday tracked and killed 4 cowboys said to be responsible for Morgan Earp's death, which would later become known as the Earp Vendetta Ride.
In the General elections of 1965 he was an independent candidate for Diyarbakir but was not elected.
During his high school studies, the Dersim rebellion led by Seyid Riza was going on, which lead to some frictions with his Turkish classmates following which he was shortly detained.
The next day, the communist People's Guard carried out an attack on the Bar Podlaski restaurant at 15 Nowogrodzka Street, corner of Krucza Street (a place designated Nur für Deutsche and intended for SS and police officers).
The first applicant, Mulkiye Osman, was the widow of Ali Osman, who was shot dead by Paul Paget-Lewis on 7 March 1988.
A Shalinsky District's prosecutor's office said it opened a case for kidnapping, but "the steps taken to identify the individuals responsible for this crime have been unsuccessful" and the investigation was suspended on 12 December 2000.
This is a list of journalists killed in India See also List of journalists killed in Bangladesh Attacks on RTI activists in India References External links CPJ
In September, the two informed local police, who did not report the killings to higher authorities and left the remains in their place for several months to ensure that the male villager remained anonymous.
Valech Report is the report from the second truth commission in Chile, considered to have continued Rettig's work.
His aircraft was shot down by anti-aircraft fire and the crew had to bale out, all six being taken prisoner.
Makaratzis v Greece pushes these obligations further, so that the state must have mechanisms to deter offences against people.
See also Death threat Notes References CA Gearty, 'Unravelling Osman' (2001) 64(2) Modern Law Review 159 External links ECHR judgment
Politically he evolved from centre-left to extreme right: initially Requejo supported the Romanonista dynastic Liberalism, then he turned towards accidentalist Acción Católica, and finally he joined Carlism.
Hopp and other alleged accomplices in Schäfer's crimes who were charged and awaiting trial took refuge in Ewald Frank's church in Germany, where they were protected from extradition.
After that, the video of torture and mutilation of a woman captured by Azerbaijani soldiers was first released on Telegram and after a while it was found that the woman is the Armenian soldier Anush Apetyan.
His death highlights the imperative need to improve the security of media professionals in all circumstances.
The same year he also won a notable tournament in Munich (+4 –0 =1) ahead of Rudolf Spielmann and Efim Bogoljubov.
Unlike his later more sophisticated escapes Grimson simply kicked his German guard in the backside and ran, but he was quickly recaptured.
Pre-war life Gouws was born in Bultfontein, South Africa the eldest son of an Afrikaans speaking farming family of Boer tradition.
Originally cremated and buried at Sagan, he is now buried in part of the Poznan Old Garrison Cemetery.
Following his training, he was shipped overseas where he served as a Halifax tail gunner with 405 Squadron RCAF.
Frank La Rue, the UNESCO assistant director-general for communication and information said, “On average, one journalist is murdered every four days.” The journalists and media persons who were killed or murdered in 2017 References Rashid, Omar (13 February 2016).
Meanwhile, on 8 June, Sir John Fastolf finally left Paris with a reinforcing army of several thousand, headed for the Loire River valley.
By January 1936 he was a leading aircraftman posted to Basra in Iraqas an engine fitter but in November 1936 he was appointed driver with the British Embassy in Baghdad.
113 (1973) Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013 Sheila Hodgers Eighth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland Abortion in the Republic of Ireland Death of Savita Halappanavar Attorney General v.
Prisoner of war On the evening of 13–14 October 1942, Kidder took off in a Wellington Mark III bomber (serial number BJ775) from RAF Warboys to bomb targets in the German port town of Kiel.
The order required guards to shoot prisoners who engaged in resistance or escape attempts, without warning; failing to do so would result in dismissal or arrest.
After the October Revolution, Kirpichnikov planned to join the newly formed Russian White Army fighting against Bolsheviks.
Death In February 1977, Oryema, together with Archbishop Janani Luwum and Interior Minister Charles Oboth Ofumbi were arrested for an alleged coup attempt and died shortly after.
2007-2010 trial In May 2007, Chilean judge Víctor Montiglio indicted 74 former DINA agents, most of whom were previously unknown to the public, as part of the largest investigation into the operations of this secret police force.
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt during the Great Depression, was well received and became known as Plan Chardón.
Post-war investigations saw a number of those guilty of the murders tracked down, arrested and tried for their crimes.
Afghanistan See also War in Afghanistan (2001–present) Human rights in Afghanistan References External links The Journalists Memorial
The permanent staff's duty was to help newly captured Allied aircrew to adjust to life as prisoners of war.
It abruptly resurfaced and only two crew escaped (a wounded Leutnant and the helmsman) from a hatch before it sank again.
In May 1933, the Munich prosecutor's office, not yet assimilated to Nazi policy in the Gleichschaltung process, began investigating the murder of several prisoners at Dachau, prompted by the formal complaint of Sophie Handschuh, who wanted to know the true cause of her son's death at the camp.
In the Court's view, the astonishing ineffectiveness of the prosecuting authorities in this case could only be qualified as acquiescence in the events.
In the documentary film One Day in September (2000), it is stated that Israeli Mossad assassination squads killed both him and Mohammad Safady.
Jamal Al-Gashey can be seen seated in the middle of the three, between his cousin Adnan (believed to be the guerilla who shot and killed five of the hostages who were tied up in one of the helicopters) and Mohammed Safady.
The military, however, intercepted the convoy at Masaje, close to Yandev in Gboko local government where Gana was killed.
On the other hand, the doctrine was defined by its creator, General Perón, as deeply national, humanist and Christian, respectful of the human person above all things.
All the top leaders of the paramilitaries in Miami were there." Carriles and Bosch were both present at the meeting in Bonao, at which CORU was formed, along with Gaspar Jiménez.
Further, the school leveraged instructors returning from service in Vietnam to "insure currency of the instruction".
The Glasgow Herald of 19 May 1944 published an early list naming several officers, including Casey Awards His conspicuous bravery as a prisoner was recognised by a mention in despatches as none of the other relevant decorations then available could be awarded posthumously.
Pre-war life McGarr was born in Johannesburg, South Africa and moved with his family to Durban, in 1923.
Execution On 8 December 1922, along with three other republicans Liam Mellows, Richard Barrett and Joe McKelvey captured with the fall of the Four Courts, Rory O'Connor was executed by firing squad in reprisal for the anti-treaty IRA's killing of Free State TD Seán Hales.
In March 2009, the magazine CartaCapital published previously unreleased documents of the National Information Service created by an undercover agent who was present at Goulart's properties in Uruguay.
They had a private exchange that made a strong impression on Charles; Jean Pasquerel, Joan's confessor, later testified that Joan told him she had reassured the Dauphin that he was Charles VI's son and the legitimate king.
He completed his F-16 training in the Royal Jordanian Air Force, and by 2012, had qualified as an operational F-16 pilot and was assigned to No.
Unable to receive a direct course of action from Carter, the mixed messages that the Shah received from Vance and Brzezinski contributed to his confusion and indecision as he fled Iran in January 1979 and his regime collapsed.
The guerrillas reduced the staff and came to Garcia, who slept next to his partner, singer and actress Marina Dorel, and reassured him, while a female militant wore the uniform of one of the maids in case of the arrival of some unforeseen guest.
Extrajudicial punishment is a punishment for an alleged crime or offense which is carried out without legal process or supervision by a court or tribunal through a legal proceeding.
According to The New York Times, his father's experiences in Nazi Germany made the elder Reich "immediately suspicious of [Fidel] Castro, prompting him to flee with his family to North Carolina in 1960, when Otto was 15." In 1966, Reich received a B.A.
Between 1962 and 1966, nearly 400 Paraguayan military personnel were trained by the United States in the Panama Canal Zone and on US soil.
Gisela Seewald, who admitted the use of electroshock therapy and sedatives that her boss had claimed were placebos.
Al-Qaeda operations after 9/11 After 9/11, Interpol issued a warrant for Ayman al-Zawahiri's arrest, over his involvement in the attacks.
Located in the Floresta neighborhood of Buenos Aires, it operated during the military dictatorship of 1976–1983.
After the shootout at Fürstenfeldbruck Air Base, he was captured along with his nephew Jamal Al-Gashey, and Mohammed Safady.
Canaris was arrested on 23 July 1944 on the basis of the interrogation of his successor at Military Intelligence, Georg Hansen.
Early life Terwase, literally meaning 'God help,' was born a native of Gbishe, Kpav District, Katsina-Ala local government area of Benue State.
An autopsy of Luluyeva showed that she died from a multiple strong blows to the head with a solid blunt object at least three months before the discovery of the corpse-dumping site.
The chapel was dedicated in 1940 and was large enough to accommodate the school's entire student body, which was then 1,200.
Two weeks later, he wrote a letter to Newton's mother in which he described her son's courage and expressed the hope that he might yet be found alive.
Mehmed Reshid was appointed as the new Vali of Diyarbekir and arrived with a small private death squad composed of Circassian volunteers.
This included the fictional group's requisition and use of civilian and military vehicles, gasoline, rations, medical supplies, and other such materiel.
This document, which John Dinges received in 1979, two years after its declassification, was cited in a book, written by Dinges and Saul Landau, about the assassination of Letelier.
Sweden Cats Falck, 1984 Turkey United Kingdom Ross McWhirter, 1975 Bulgarian dissident writer and BBC journalist Georgi Markov died on 11 September 1978 after having been poisoned with a Bulgarian umbrella.
Facts Diane Pretty was suffering from motor neurone disease and was paralysed from the neck down, had little decipherable speech and was fed by a tube.
Most prominent among the victims is Hrant Dink, killed in 2007, but the death of Metin Göktepe also raised great concern, since police officers beat him to death.
Portrayal in film Al-Gashey is portrayed by French Moroccan actor Karim Saidi in the 2005 film Munich.
During World War II, he developed contacts with the 20 July plot conspirators, including Hans von Dohnanyi and Hans Oster from the military-intelligence.
Where appropriate, the United States seeks assurances that transferred persons will not be tortured.
In 1980, Adolfo Pérez Esquivel, leader of the Peace and Justice Service, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for reporting many of Argentina's human rights violations to the world at large.
Stroessner also fired the interior minister Ynsfrán in 1966, but his replacement, Sabino Augusto Montanaro (a member of the "Cuatrinomio de Oro", a group of politicians intimately connected to Stroessner) continued the same violent policies.
Crossfire is a form of staged extrajudicial killings in Bangladesh, often used to refer to the death of a person by gunshot while under the custody of a law enforcement agency.
A local policeman, trying to stop them, got into a heated argument and was fired on before the APC drove away with the detainees.
Hampton and the Panthers also used Clements's parish, Holy Angels Catholic Church in Chicago (now the parish of Our Lady of Africa), as a refuge in times of particular surveillance or pursuit from the police.
Nura Luluyeva (Chechen: Нура Лулуева; 1960 – 2000) was a Chechen woman who was kidnapped and murdered by a Russian death squad in 2000.
Da Costa began making contact with some of the student"s leaders that were anxious to return to Paraguay to make the revolution through the means of violence due to the lack of political rights and the apathy of the traditional parties of the opposition.
After the dictatorship, President Tabaré Vázquez appointed Cores political secretary of the Broad Front.
Duff enlisted into Captain John Williams' Company in Cahokia and rose to the rank of sergeant in the Illinois Regiment.
Manhunt and amnesty First amnesty Gana lived in the jungle cohabiting with wild animals until Monday, 31 August 2015 when he first appeared in public to embrace the amnesty granted by Samuel Ortom, Governor of Benue State for criminals in the state.
During World War I, Kirpichnikov fought on the Austrian front, was wounded in the hand and after a hospital stay ended up in Petrograd.
The applicants' complaints were directed at the failure of the authorities to appreciate and act on what they claim was a series of clear warning signs that Paget-Lewis represented a serious threat to the physical safety of Ahmet Osman and his family.
Exiled as a critic of Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship, he was targeted for assassination by Operation Condor.
At 9 o´clock, part of the twelve combatants who would be involved in the operation gathered at the Carupá station.
Twenty-one prisoners were taken from the kiosk, placed against the wall, and shot without trial on the orders of the French Capitaine Marcel Dingeon, who was Abbeville's deputy commander.
This chapel was considered the most beautiful in the Philippines and had few rivals in the District, although the Brothers would regret about the chapel's limited size.
Some time later in 1940 there was a show trial in Skidel of 15 individuals including three women, two Tartars and two Polish Russians, who aided the Polish Army which briefly retook Skidel on 19 September.
On 20 July 1920, Canaris became admiral's staff officer at the Marinestation der Ostsee (Baltic Naval Station) command.
Leigh had been recommended for a commission and was commissioned pilot officer and allocated service number 46462 on 30 September 1941 (with effect from 2 August 1941).
When the association was banned by King Alexander's dictatorship, he reformed it together with Ivan Merz under the name "Crusaders" ("Križari").
Jungle justice (also known as mob justice or street justice) is a form of extrajudicial punishment carried out by angry mobs or vigilante groups against individuals accused of crimes.
The details of his capture and execution were only revealed later that year in a diary found on a Japanese soldier.
25781/94) is a case raised by Cyprus against Turkey in 1994 and decided on merits by the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights in 2001.
Other countries implicated in the archives include Peru (which joined Operation Condor in 1978 along with Ecuador), Venezuela, and Colombia, which cooperated, to various degrees, by providing intelligence information that had been requested by the security services of the Southern Cone countries.
He resigned from the Bush administration in 2004, and has since run a consulting firm and advised Republican presidential candidates.
The names of these victims were in most cases never established, as the captured Jews were not entered in the Pawiak's records at all.
Anthony Ross Henzell Hayter (20 May 1920 – 6 April 1944) was a Royal Air Force Vickers Wellington bomber pilot who was taken prisoner during the Second World War.
Aliyev was the founder of the Priboi and Vatan radio stations and director of the TNT-Makhachkala television network and was known for his anti-Wahhabist views, which were reflected in his radio and TV stations.
Awards Almada received several awards for his courage and work, including the prize "Antorcha a la libertad" of the Libre Foundation in Asunción in 1999 and the Right Livelihood Award in 2002.
As concerns Pretty's right to respect for private life under Article 8, the Court considered that the interference in this case might be justified as "necessary in a democratic society" for the protection of the rights of others.
The only reason that God allowed us this extra ration of life is so we can make life hell for the Hun...
The unmasking of Kunze happened by accident; he had been in the habit of passing notes to the American doctor at the camp during sick call.
The British White Paper of 1939 allowed only 75,000 Jews to immigrate to Mandatory Palestine over five years, and no more after that unless local Arabs gave their permission.
He was subsequently imprisoned for this act and bishops Akšamović and Bonefačić were brought in by the authorities for questioning.
On one occasion he was wounded in combat and, on recovery, he resumed operational flying with renewed zest.
The new group became well known by the epithet La Cagoule ('The Hood'), a term that was first applied by Charles Maurras and Maurice Pujo of Action Française, as the group's tactics reminded them of the American Ku Klux Klan; the name was subsequently embraced by the press.
As of May 2022, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs estimates 6,036 Palestinian fatalities and 272 Israeli fatalities as a result of the conflict since 2008.
This new imprisonment of Ananías Maidana would last twenty years, and would mean practically a lifetime of suffering and torture for him.
Juan Manuel de Rosas, the powerful governor of Buenos Aires, contended that this violated the Federal Pact.
In 2019, Congress amended ATA with the Promoting Security and Justice for Victims of Terrorism Act of 2019 (PSJVTA) which specifically created a cause of action against the PLO and PA.
On 7 June, while the Attuans were returning home from church, 1,170 Japanese soldiers attacked them and rounded them up.
Reich Minister of Justice Franz Gurtner was in contact with Reichsführer-SS Himmler to mitigate the Postenpflicht a bit, but he was unable to accomplish anything.
He sent the prisoners to Tarragona or any other town, and in the middle of the road, the escort that was chosen for that purpose, killed them with bayonets, alleging that he had tried to escape.
40 Squadron SAAF which was then back in South Africa, the squadron's personnel were flown to Egypt to join the Desert Air Force.
The police, clarifying that it is not work-related, said that the motive was allegedly a land dispute.
South Sudan, located in northeast Africa, has seen the number of slayings of journalists jump since the start of the South Sudanese Civil War in 2013.
On 5 October 1975, Montoneros members hijacked a civilian airliner bound for Corrientes from Buenos Aires.
Matsievskyi's territorial defense forces' comrades reporting his group of four soldiers went missing on 30 December 2022, following a failed counter attack on the outskirts of Soledar.
5 Group RAF, Bomber Command in a bomber role, its first operation took place while the squadron was still forming, when a single Hampden attacked Frankfurt at night on 29 August.
As the man is heard saying "Slava Ukraini" ("Glory to Ukraine"), salvos of automatic weapons from multiple sides are heard and seen shooting the man, who collapses.
However, a few days later, Akram's family released four recorded mobile phone calls between Akram and his daughter and wife before he died from a bullet wound.
On the night of 4 September, Al-Gashey met for dinner with the other members of the strike team, along with a senior Black September operative (believed to be Abu Daoud), who briefed them on their upcoming mission and drove with them in taxis to the Olympic Village.
The scandal The scandal followed after the killings were condemned by Edvard Kocbek in an interview that appeared as a special edition of the journal Zaliv; it was written by two Slovene writers from Trieste, Boris Pahor and Alojz Rebula, and published in Italy.
The film 'Chronicle of an Escape' (2006) directed by Adrián Caetano recreates the true story of the escape from this center by Claudio Tamburrini, Daniel Rusomano, Guillermo Fernández, and Carlos García.
Awards Reportedly Mentioned in despatches for bravery as a prisoner of war (none of the other relevant decorations then available could be awarded posthumously).
Bashar al-Assad took his father's policy further and considered any voice questioning anything about Syria's political, economic, social, or otherwise policies should be monitored and when needed, detained and accused of weakening national empathy.
This means that during Kutschera's tenure, between 270 and 300 people were being killed in Warsaw weekly.
One such prayer reads: Thy martyr, Yevgeny, O Lord, in his sufferings hath received an incorruptible crown from Thee, our God, for having Thy strength he hath brought down his torturers, hath defeated the powerless insolence of demons.
Government forces took victims by plane or helicopter out to sea, dropping them to their deaths in planned disappearances.
At the initiative of his local pastor, Father Bešar, he then enrolled in the classical eight-year secondary school in Ljubljana, during which time he lived in Our Lady's Student Dormitory (Slovene: Marijanišče).
McElduff and other soldiers were on reconnaissance, for General Clark, observing the British movements, near the Mississippi River.
Background The events The revolt of 18 September 1939 was organized by the Communist Party of West Belarus which was outlawed by Poland in 1938.
2010 Malik Mohammad Arif, a Samaa TV camera operator, was killed by a suicide bomber on 16 April 2010.
See also Displaced persons camps in post–World War II Europe Jewish Legion Jewish Brigade Bricha Haganah Sh'erit ha-Pletah Nakam Gmul References Bibliography Beckman, Morris (1999).
'Great Escape' For the Great Escape operation Pohe was one of the tunnellers and one of the 76 men who escaped the prison camp on the night of 24–25 March 1944, in the escape now famous as "the Great Escape".
More and more recaptured airmen arrived at Sagan civil jail until they were moved by truck, to be held at Görlitz prison where eventually the total reached 35.
It was further noted that no martial law and no state of emergency had been declared in Chechnya, and no derogation has been entered under Article 15 of the Convention.
The interview was titled Edvard Kocbek: pričevalec našega časa (Edvard Kocbek: Witness to Our Time) and served as a pretext to launch a massive denigration campaign against Kocbek by the state-controlled Yugoslav media.
He emigrated in accordance with the wishes of his father, in 1883 from Zweibrücken (Germany) to Riga (Latvia).
He met his wife, Janet Manjeri Acoyo, daughter of Lasto Olum, and Abwoyo P'Wali of Palabek, Kitgum (Northern Uganda), a teacher who had qualified at Kabwangazi Teacher Training College, and they married in 1937 at the parish church of St Philips in Gulu town.
Using this kind of weapon in a populated area, outside wartime and without prior evacuation of the civilians, was impossible to reconcile with the degree of caution expected from a law-enforcement body in a democratic society.
The investigation of the disappearance of journalist Dzmitry Zavadski in 2000 has also yielded no results.
For twelve days and nights they marched through the snow following the railway lines eastwards past Liegnitz and Breslau remaining at large longer than almost all of the escapers.
While Vizetelly was killed at El Obeid, he was with not with Hicks' party and was outside the square.
The body of Karen Petrosyan was repatriated 2 months after his death, on 10 October 2014, in an operation facilitated by the International Committee of the Red Cross.
Robert William Scherrer (August 21, 1935 – November 15, 1995) was an FBI agent posted in Latin America in the 1970s.
While covering the struggles between Houthi militias and Saudi Arabian forces there have been multiple journalists who have lost their lives in 2015.
During Chile's transition to democracy, as one of the most important figures of the Pinochet regime, Romo was sought by prosecutors and found living in São Paulo with his wife and five children in June 1992.
Ivo Protulipac (4 June 1899 – 31 January 1946) was a Croatian lawyer and Catholic activist, assassinated in 1946, reportedly by the UDBA (Yugoslav secret police).
See also Censorship in Venezuela Mass media in Venezuela List of journalists killed in Guatemala List of journalists killed in Honduras List of journalists killed in Mexico == References ==
The international pressure on Yugoslavia, especially the intervention of the German writer Heinrich Böll, was probably the main element that protected Kocbek from judicial prosecution.
In 1931, at the age of sixteen-and-a-half, he passed the flying tests for the Class A Pilot's Licence, which could not be issued until he reached the age of seventeen.
Another potential connection is with the slogan "nunca +" (never again, no more), popularly used by the human rights movement during the military dictatorship.
He lived in Jerusalem until the 1967 Six-Day War, when he was displaced after Israel captured the eastern portion of the city.
Kierath was one of the 50 escapers who had been listed by SS-Gruppenführer Arthur Nebe to be killed, so was amongst those executed and murdered by the Gestapo.
The Tiger Squad (Arabic: فرقة النمر, Firqat el-Nemr), also known as UNIT 1103, and officially called the Rapid Intervention Force (Arabic: قوة التدخل السريع, Quat al-Tadakhul al-Sarie), is a protective security unit under the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, Mohammed bin Salman.
Harold John Milford (16 August 1914 – 6 April 1944), was a British Douglas Boston medium bomber observer who was taken prisoner during the Second World War.
On 1 May 1994, journalists Bryan Brinton and Francis William Tomasic were killed, and novelist William T.
Judgment McCann and Others v United Kingdom was the first case before the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) to concern Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR), which protects the right to life.
The most brutal thing that was previously published is footage from the summer of 2022, when a man in a Russian military uniform cuts off the genitals of a man in a Ukrainian military uniform and then kills him.
Clandestine detention center in the Lebensohn and Don Uva area, according to complaints made to the National Secretariat for Human Rights during 2004.
Following VE Day, however, he was amongst those individuals almost completely forgotten, as the Canadian people were anxious to put the War behind them.
in collaboration with Chilean secret police DINA, and the bombing of Cubana Flight 455 which killed 73 people.
He became deeply interested in modern art and purchased paintings by Da Silva, Max Ernst and Edouard Cortes, his collection was stolen from the family home at Rueil-Malmaison near Paris during the Second World War.
Awards Mentioned in despatches for conspicuous gallantry as a prisoner of war (none of the other relevant decorations then available could be awarded posthumously).
They claim that the common people are tired of the constant murders and mourning and label the gangs as terrorists.
El Silencio (Tigre) It operated on an island in Tigre originally intended as a rest area for members of the Archdiocese of Buenos Aires.
22947 & 8/93, ECHR 2000-X, was a decision by the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) on the extent of the right to life.
Judge Alejandro Madrid was thus able to indict him for the kidnappings and tortures at Villa Grimaldi.
Baudricourt agreed to a third meeting with Joan in February 1429, around the time the English captured an Armagnac relief convoy at the Battle of the Herrings during the Siege of Orléans.
Since the early 1990s, Russia's media monitors have recorded every violent or suspicious death that came to their attention.
He was accused of financial irregularities, murder of his former lab assistant, and scientific fraud, and brought to Buchenwald and Dachau concentration camps before being executed.
After she saw the CNN footage of her son she appealed to prosecutors, who opened a criminal case in July 2001, 17 months after his disappearance.
The Gestapo and German police cordoned off entire apartment blocks, detaining all suspicious individuals.
Brian Herbert Evans (14 February 1920 – 31 March 1944), was a Royal Air Force bomber pilot who was taken prisoner during the Second World War.
The archaic verb linch, to beat severely with a pliable instrument, to chastise or to maltreat, has been proposed as the etymological source; but there is no evidence that the word has survived into modern times, so this claim is also considered implausible.
Khotami had been the anchor of a weekly TV program that reported on drug trafficking, corruption and organized crime.
He lived on a pension provided by the Palestinian Authority and gave interviews to Aljazeera and other Arab and international media outlets about his life, the Munich events, and Palestinian politics.
Among the leaders arrested was Pedro Albizu Campos, These leaders were charged with having "conspired to overthrow" the U.S.
Several hours of torture would follow, often including the removal of the genitalia, hands, tongue, rectum and teeth.
The suspected gunman was arrested in early 2024 in Dipolog, Zamboanga del Norte; his two alleged accomplices had been arrested earlier in Sapang Dalaga.
Jordanian warplanes bombed ISIL positions in Mosul, killing 55 ISIL fighters, including a senior commander.
He was amongst the 47 murdered officers named in the British and Commonwealth press when the story became public knowledge on or about 19–20 May 1944 The Glasgow Herald of 19 May 1944 published an early list naming several officers including Hake.
By administrative means (в административном порядке, "v administrativnom poryadke") was a term used in the Soviet Union when some actions which would normally require a court decision were left to the decision of executive bodies (administration), i.e.
His aircraft was hit by light anti-aircraft fire from German Naval units and he had to "ditch" (crash land at sea) 40 miles off Rotterdam where two of his crew of six drowned when they were unable to get to the life boat.
Sparks watched as about 50 German prisoners captured by the 157th Infantry Regiment were confined in an area that had been used for storing coal.
Located in the La Reina commune of Santiago, this facility was operated by a subgroup within DINA known as Brigade Lautaro.
Life Heinrich Koenen was born in the Konigsberg district of Berlin, the son of Communist Reichstag deputy Wilhelm Koenen.
In 2023, nearly 75% of journalists killed worldwide were Palestinians who had died in Israel's war in Gaza.
The photo was published in Australian newspapers and in Life magazine but was thought to depict Flight Lieutenant Bill Newton, who had been captured in Salamaua, Papua New Guinea, and beheaded on 29 March 1943.
Evans managed to get the damaged bomber home and crash landed at Lenham, Kent at 0450 hours; three of the crew survived alive but one died.
Üngör, Uğur; Polatel, Mehmet (2011), Confiscation and Destruction: The Young Turk Seizure of Armenian Property, London: Continuum International External links "ՄԵԾ ԵՂԵՌՆԻ ՆԱՀԱՏԱԿ ԻԳՆԱՏԻՈՍ ԱՐՔ.
Events leading to a massacre In 1931, the U.S.-appointed Governor of Puerto Rico, Theodore Roosevelt Jr.
Croatian photographer Pavo Urban was killed by a shell fragment during a bombing in Dubrovnik on 6 December 1991.
Nearly eight weeks after the massacre, on 29 October, Lufthansa Flight 615 was hijacked by two Black September members, who demanded the release of the three Munich survivors.
The organization further claimed that many of the murdered journalists had been critical of Russian President Putin.
The United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights condemned the killing of Palestinian journalists in the Gaza Strip, including two Al Jazeera television reporters, by Israel.
Kennedy II stated that the manuals confirmed that "taxpayer dollars have been used to train military officers in executions, extortion, beatings and other acts of intimidation – all clear civil rights abuses which have no place in civilized society." Rep.
Documentary In 2011, a documentary titled El Mocito ("The Young Butler") was released, recounting the story of Jorgelino Vergara Bravo, who worked at the Simón Bolívar Barracks and witnessed the horrors that occurred there.
The de Mohrenschildts testified that on April 14, 1963, just before Easter Sunday, they were visiting the Oswalds at their new apartment and had brought them a toy Easter bunny to give to their child.
During the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, foreign war correspondents, professional journalists, and citizen journalists have been killed since the beginning of the conflict in 1948 or have died as a result of their reporting.
This form of street justice is typically a response to perceived failures in formal justice systems, particularly in regions where law enforcement is seen as corrupt, ineffective, or absent.
Apparently not; and at the very least, a clarification or precise confirmation from the authorities should be expected at this point.
Description of the estate The house was divided in two floors and a basement and it was surrounded by a garden.
After Croatian independence, Protulipac's remains were exhumed and he was returned to Croatia and buried in Zagreb's Mirogoj cemetery.
Tolbert Sr., national chairman of the ruling True Whig Party, he grew up in Bensonville, attended Zion Praise Baptist Church, graduated from Liberia College, and became involved in politics relatively early in life.
Also included in a separate form are those journalists whose whereabouts are unknown or whose disappearance is a result of their reporting and the period of their disappearance, including those cases where it is unknown as to whether or not they are casualties.
Wäckerle was instructed by Heinrich Himmler, then-Munich chief of police and Obergruppenführer of the SS, to draw up a set of regulations for discipline in the camp.
Members of intelligence agencies like DINA and the Joint Command attempted to extract information from victims by threatening their children and loved ones.
The 'Great Escape' Gunn was one of 76 men who escaped the prison camp on the night of 24/25 March 1944 in the "Great Escape".
A motion to this effect, opposed by Lynch, was narrowly defeated, whereupon O'Connor and others left the meeting to set up a separate GHQ.
On 13 January 1996, Rodionov was deployed to the Caucasus Special Border District, serving in the Nazran Border Unit (No.
In 2019, amid the Crisis in Bolivarian Venezuela, the government of Nicolás Maduro was accused by a UN human rights report of using death squads to conduct thousands of extrajudicial executions.
On 4 February 2021 Iranian diplomat Asadollah Asadi and three other Iranian nationals were convicted in Antwerp for plotting to bomb a 2018 rally of National Council of Resistance of Iran in France.
Wagner, found that Pickett and Dawson had been murdered by the guerillas, each with gunshot wounds in the head.
Bin Laden organized a plot to assassinate Clinton by bombing the presidential motorcade as it traveled through Manila.
In 1935 he graduated from Buwalasi Teacher Training College in Mbale, after which he was posted to Gulu Primary School in Northern Uganda.
Władysław Kowalski (17 April 1897 – 21 September 1939) was a Polish footballer who played as a forward for Wisła Kraków and WKS Warsaw.
Having got clear of the camp Langford was in a party of officers who fought their way through the snow and bitter cold walking as fast as they could, they kept pushing onwards despite the weather and survived freezing nights outdoors only to be recaptured on 28 March 1944.
The 1975 Zaliv Scandal was a political scandal in SFR Yugoslavia that began when the summary killing of 12,000 Slovene Home Guard war prisoners by the Yugoslav Communist regime, which occurred in May and June 1945, was publicly discussed and condemned for the first time after World War II in 1975.
During their duty, they stopped an ambulance car transporting weapons and driven by Chechen Republic of Ichkeria brigade general Ruslan Khaikhoroev.
In the late 1970s, Pinochet allegedly ordered for the mass graves containing hundreds of murdered detainees to be unearthed and for the bodies to be either thrown into the sea or burned.
When investigations were launched into Colonia in later years, many members of the colony fled back to Germany where they found refuge with Frank.
They were involved in operations, including Operation Colombo and the assassinations of PCCh leaders under the Calle Conferencia operations.
The Glasgow Herald of 19 May 1944 published an early list naming several officers including Kidder and in the "Ottawa Citizen" on 27 February 1946.
Arthur Steele (6 April 1921 – 14 September 1944) was a British soldier who joined Special Operations Executive (SOE) to operate in occupied France during the Second World War as a wireless operator carrying out sabotage and spying missions until he was taken prisoner.
Political life As the student leader at the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile, he participated in the 1927 riots against Carlos Ibáñez del Campo's dictatorship, which was deposed in 1931.
As a skilled artist, he was one of the fifty document forgers working alongside Gordon Brettell, Romualdas Marcinkus and Tim Walenn, and modelled perfect replica German rifles (carbines) for the use of men trying to escape in German uniform.
Gubbins's nomination for Steele's "mention in despatches" on 23 August 1945 stated: This officer was parachuted into FRANCE in June 1943 as W/T operator to an organiser in the MARSEILLE area.
He was a veteran staff member of the United States National Security Council, and held several advisory posts in the U.S.
At some point the couple became employees for the Bureau of Indian Affairs and in September 1941 they moved to Attu Island which at the time had a population of around 45 Aleuts, making the couple the only white inhabitants of the island.
Over the target area their aircraft was spotted by German searchlights and hit by anti-aircraft fire.
References External links Biography from Pegasus-one.org PBS.org Story of the Great Escape Roger Bushell website POW Camps Museum Zagan website Bushell_Scheidhauer.pdf
Late 1800s: A group of self-appointed lawmen called "stranglers" lynched around sixty horse rustlers and cattle rustlers along southwest North Dakota's Little Missouri River.
High altitude experiments Rascher suggested in early 1941, while a captain in the Luftwaffe's Medical Service, that high-altitude/low-pressure experiments be carried out on human beings.
Rodriguez's body was mutilated and abandoned in a trench, but a group of local peasants found it and recognized Rodríguez, burying him secretly under the La Merced Chapel's altar in Til-Til with the help of the local priest.
It nevertheless considered that Ireland had violated article 8 with regard to the third applicant, C, because it was uncertain and unclear whether she could have access to abortion in a situation where she believed that her pregnancy was life-threatening.
See also Chilean Coup of 1973 List of truth and reconciliation commissions Víctor Jara Stadium was a sports arena used as a detention and torture center listed on the report.
Ramiro de Maeztu, la Labor Literaria de un Periodista (1897-1910), Diputación Foral de Álava, Departamento de Publicaciones.
He became a prisoner of war and was sent to Oflag IX-AH Spangenberg Castle, followed by Stalag Luft III in Germany in the province of Lower Silesia near the town of Sagan (now Żagań in Poland).
Fuglesang was one of the 50 escapers who had been listed by SS-Gruppenfuhrer Arthur Nebe to be killed so was amongst the unfortunate executed and murdered by the Gestapo.
Significant conclusions include that "no right to die, whether at the hands of a third person or with the assistance of a public authority, can be derived from Article 2 of the Convention".
(Post-war investigations saw a number of those guilty of the murders tracked down, arrested and tried for their crimes.) Shortly afterwards, a communication arrived from England to advise Long that he had successfully completed the requirements for a degree of Bachelor of Arts in Economics.
Boris Pahor and Alojz Rebula, who interviewed Kocbek, were banned from entering Yugoslavia for several years and were only able to enter it to attend Kocbek's funeral.
Cosme (Diaz) Maestrado, commentator at a local radio station (DXOC), was shot dead in front of a shopping center in Ozamiz, Misamis Occidental on August 27.
Death After the failure of the assassination attempt of 20 July 1944, Munzinger was arrested by members of the SS in Salzburg and sent to the Lehrterstrasse prison in Berlin.
The non-Jewish participants were released a week later, Przepiórka and the other Jewish players (including Stanisław Kohn and Moishe Lowtzky and Przepiórka's son-in-law Jakub Rabinowicz) were subsequently executed by the Germans in Palmiry.
In 1461 he was appointed steward of the Duchy of Cornwall and constable of Bristol, and in 1462 he received the greater part of the Devon estates of Thomas Courtenay, Earl of Devon, who had been captured at Towton and executed.
And send it to the commander." Investigation On 12 April 2023, the Security Service of Ukraine launched a pre-trial investigation into the matter.
On the night of April 22–23, 1945, just a few hours before his scheduled release, a special detachment from the Reich Security Main Office murdered him and other prisoners at nearby factory grounds.
At 16 she published her first of many articles in the Communist newspaper Nuestra palabra ("Our Word").
The Archives of Terror (Spanish: Archivos del Terror) are a collection of documents chronicling the repression undertaken by Paraguayan dictator Alfredo Stroessner's secret police force during his rule from 1954 to 1989.
Steele completed his SOE training to join SOE F Section networks and was promoted acting lieutenant effective 19 June 1943 and lieutenant on 1 July 1943.
His initial flight training as an observer and bomb aimer commenced 2 March 1941, he was promoted Sergeant on 12 April 1941 and posted to No.1 Air Navigation School.
Hall started his pilot training at 4 ITW at RAF Paignton at 19 August 1940, followed by flight training at No.
His squadron were in action with Luftwaffe Focke Wulf Fw 190 fighters and as wingman he stuck to the tail of his lead pilot until a burst of 20mm cannon fire intended for the lead aircraft hit his own aircraft.
Prisoner of war Catanach and his crew took off in Handley Page Hampden serial number "AT109" from RAF Sumburgh at 20:40 hours on the night of 4/5 September 1942 for Vaenja, Northern Russia, via Afrikanda.
The group gained international notoriety for its role in the Munich massacre at the 1972 Munich Olympics, in which a number of athletes on the Israeli team were taken hostage by Black September.
In January 1993, as the United Nations Special Envoy to Bosnia, Vance and Lord David Owen, the EU representative, began negotiating a peace plan for the ending the War in Bosnia.
Kyrylo Osmak became president of the UHVR, but real power rested in the hands of the General Secretariat, headed by Roman Shukhevych.
Awards and decorations Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross on 8 March 1942 as Oberst and commander of Infanterie-Regiment 30 (mot.) References Citations === Bibliography ===
Humphreys and Royle headed off southwards when the group split and struggled through the thick snow and biting cold.
Armando Fernández Larios, and his other two key players in the Letellier-Moffitt murders and other cases linked to atrocities in Chile — Virgilio Paz Romero and Michael Townley — are wanted in Chile for the detention, torture, and killing of Spanish-Chilean citizen Carmelo Soria on July 14, 1976.
They were later put in a Japanese concentration camp in Los Baños, Laguna, until they were rescued and freed together with their other fellow clergy-prisoners by the American Forces under General Douglas MacArthur in February 1945.
In March 2025, the Calamba RTC dismissed the murder charges and acquitted all suspects citing failure to prove their guilt beyond reasonable doubt.
There is no historical record of what happened to them, although Wierzbicki states that fragmentary information and "common practice" suggests that at least some of them were executed.
Lynching of members of the Turkish Armed Forces occurred in the aftermath of the 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt.
Gmul ('Recompense') was a short-lived secret unit created in the Jewish Brigade in 1945 at the end of World War II to identify and kill Germans, particularly SS members, who had taken part in atrocities against Jews.
Around 2:15 p.m., a Bell UH-1 Iroquois making its way to Honduras was shot down by the FMLN using small arms fire.
Leigh was not listed with other Australians named in an article in The Canberra Times on 28 February 1946.
Jacobo Timerman has called the Chilean army under Pinochet "the last Prussian army in the world", suggesting a pre-Fascist origin to the model of Pinochet's military government.
Later the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission, led by Archbishop Desmond Tutu would find that both military and police agencies such as the Civil Cooperation Bureau and C10 based at Vlakplaas were guilty of gross human rights violations.
Declared a prodigy by the age of nine, soon afterward he managed to beat a well-known chess master Jan Taubenhaus.
He joined the Citizen Military Forces in 1938 and enlisted in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) in February 1940.
Others have implicated ergot poisoning, schizophrenia, delusional disorder, or creative psychopathy induced by her early childhood rearing.
being dumped in the Sarei River ravine near Builico, and dipanggil ke Quelicai ("called to Quelicai").
However, days later the Chilean church-sponsored committee for peace published a comprehensive report detailing direct evidence that seventy-seven individuals on the list of the missing 119, had been last seen detained by Chile security personnel before they disappeared.
The majority were sent on a death march, while a selected minority of "good-looking women...were being held for the pleasure of the troops under Osman Ağa," according to an American observer serving aboard the USS Overton.
He was not brought to court until 1972 and was sentenced to 12 years' imprisonment after a one-year trial.
Pre-war life Langford was born in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, the son of Olive Mary and Captain Richard Wilson Langford an English couple.
Personal life On August 15, 1940, Leighton married Ana María Fresno Ovalle, a relative of Juan Francisco Fresno.
By late 1945, Pinochet had been assigned to the "Carampangue" Regiment in the northern city of Iquique.
A July 2024 count by the Gaza Government Media Office placed the number of Palestinian journalists killed by Israel at 160.
Over the next few days the cells filled up as more and more escapers were recaptured and then groups of prisoners began to be removed and the numbers thinned out rapidly.
These notes contained useful information regarding the activities of various POWs in the camp, some still loyal Nazis.
On the returning train from Dublin she began bleeding profusely, was taken to hospital for a dilation and curettage and suffered pain, nausea and bleeding for weeks thereafter but did not seek further medical advice.
Strangely his name was not on the list of murdered officers which was published by newspapers on 20 May 1944.
War service On 29 January 1940 in Edmonton, Alberta, Langford joined in the Royal Canadian Air Force as a Regular Service officer and was commissioned.
Originally his remains were buried at Sagan, he is now buried in part of the Poznan Old Garrison Cemetery.
In early March 1429, Joan of Arc arrived at Chinon to meet with Charles VII and, after being examined by church officials in Poitiers, joined a large force which set out to relieve the siege at Orléans.
The leaders of the OUN in Ukraine also came to the conclusion that the German-Soviet war would soon end in a Soviet victory, and a decision was made to continue the fight against the Soviets with smaller units, in order to maintain the will to fight among the population.
Stroessner was careful not to show off or draw attention from jealous generals or foreign journalists.
The new Constitution, partly drafted by Jaime Guzmán, a close adviser to Pinochet who later founded the right-wing party Independent Democratic Union (UDI), gave a lot of power to the President of the Republic—Pinochet.
After completing basic training he learned to fly in South Africa in de Havilland Tiger Moth aircraft.
I call on all parties to respect fully the civilian status of media workers, in keeping with the Geneva Conventions” – Irina Bokova, Director General of UNESCO.
His captivity and subsequent murder received widespread reaction among the Iranian people, government, and military.
Treatment can vary from a "muddy treatment" (where the alleged criminal is forced to roll in mud for hours) to severe torture followed by execution — victims may killed by beating, immolation, necklacing, or stoning.
He then became a TV reporter, covering the Euromaidan protests and the Russian annexation of Crimea.
Lemonnier declined to personally attend the event, although he allowed some of his staff to take part.
In 1969, he was appointed president of the Uruguayan Bank Employees Association, where he supported the creation of a single workers' union.
Prisoner of war On 27 August 1942, Picard took part in a mission over Occupied France known as "Circus 208" flying Supermarine Spitfire Mark Vb (serial number "BM297") during which he was shot down by Focke-Wulf Fw 190 fighters over the English Channel off Abbeville area around mid-day.
The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit then considered issues as to the scope of ATS claims, specifically concerning non-state actors as defendants and the related question of whether genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity require a state action.
He made Inspector of Police in 1951, and was listed in the Queen's birthday honours in 1952, receiving the Colonial Police Medal for exemplary service.
The DINA barracks operated as a detention center, where the top communist leader of the clandestine party, Víctor Díaz López, met the same fate as all the other detainees—execution by DINA agents followed by helicopter transport for disposal into the sea to ensure their disappearance.
The four were taken to Stalag XX-B and spent the night there, their presence being carefully recorded by the camp sergeant-major, who issued them with clothing more suited to prisoners of war in the hope of avoiding the possibility of them being charged with espionage.
From 1996 to 2016 he was the Godfrey Lowell Cabot Professor of International Journalism at Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, currently emeritus.
He brought with him a bunch of the organization"s papers, including the clandestine magazine of the organization.
He was incarcerated together with the entire High Command of the Irgun in the Jerusalem Central Prison and Sarafand Detention Camp.
The instruction was to take Cochran's body to the nearby Natzweiler-Struthof concentration camp high in the Vosges mountains where he was to be cremated in the camp crematorium.
In 1930 together with his wife they became godparents of José Luis Martin Descalzo, a local boy who would later gain name nationwide as a writer, publisher and priest.
It has been operating as early as 2017, already engaging in forced repatriations of Saudi dissidents, arbitrary detention and torture of women's rights activists in Saudi Arabia.
A bequest of £20,000 (currently worth approximately £500,000-£700,000) was made via a deed of trust, for 'Sociological Research at the School' by the establishment of The Charles Skepper House for Sociological Research with a Research Fellowship and Studentships.
He studied theology at the University of Innsbruck, Austria, for three years, with the intention of becoming a Catholic priest, before switching to journalism.
Prisoner of war On the night of 5 August 1941 Leigh flew as rear gunner aboard Handley Page Halifax (serial number "L9516"), attacking railway workshops at Karlsruhe in Germany.
An alternative version states that the two Norwegians were arrested on the Marienhelzungsweg and Catanach and Christensen on the Helm.
Riots and insurrections Stewart v UK – 150 people throwing missiles at a patrol of soldiers amounted to a riot, although there were no clear criteria in law as to what constitutes a riot.
At the fatwa's announcement, attended by journalists, bin Laden said that North Americans are "very easy targets", and that "you will see the results of this in a very short time." Late 1990s attacks and criminal charges In November 1996, U.S.
As last commander of the LXXXXI Army Corps in Yugoslavia, Erdmannsdorff surrendered to the British troops in May 1945.
Russia Russia has not publicly condemned the execution and continues to deny any war crimes during the invasion of Ukraine.
litany, onto Fort Benning, with all who choose to march onto the post trespassing on federal property and subject to arrest.
There was a Daniel McElduff and McDuff who was also at Kaskaskia in the 1780s and was likely the brother of John Duff.
Oleksandr Kuchinsky – editor-in-chief of the newspaper Criminal Express, author of the books Chronicles of Donetsk banditry (both written in Russian), murdered on 29 November together with his wife in his suburban residence in the town of Bogorodyne near Slovyansk, Donetsk Oblast.
They had to drop their bombs in the area of Tierschelling because of engine trouble and had to make their return flight on only one engine.
Notable for his part in the 'Great Escape' from Stalag Luft III in March 1944, he was one of the men recaptured and subsequently murdered by the Gestapo.
However, the king himself took great interest in the trial against Courtenay, and it is more reasonable to see the decision as a result of Edward's need for a loyal agent in the region.
Kierath had to bail out and landed in the sea where he was rescued two hours later and taken prisoner by the Germans.
Dawid Przepiórka (22 December 1880 – presumed April 1940) was a Jewish-Polish chess player of the early twentieth century, who won the first Polish championship.
Bushell and his partner, Bernard Scheidhauer, among the first few to leave the tunnel, successfully boarded a train at Sagan railway station.
Guzmán had ordered in 1999 the arrest of five militarists, including General Pedro Espinoza of DINA, for their role in the Caravan of Death following the coup on 11 September.
Patrice McSherry of Long Island University described the discovery as "another piece of increasingly weighty evidence suggesting that U.S.
According to Russian documents, it consisted of around 200 men, although their number has been contested by Polish historian Marek Wierzbicki as exaggerated.
Gunn was quickly arrested on the road to Görlitz (to the south of the camp), and arrived at the collection point for recaptured officers at Görlitz prison.
The following is a list of journalists killed in Venezuela while reporting or on account of their journalism.
Prisoner of war Kiewnarski was in command of Vickers Wellington Mark IV (squadron codes SM-D, serial number “Z1245”) on the night 27 – 28 August 1942 attacking the German target at Kassel.
The bank robberies and operations against British policemen resulted in street shootouts, and British and Jewish police were killed and injured.
The Doha Centre for Media Freedom has documented 110 professional or citizen journalists who have died during the Syrian civil war.
Sometimes the arrest was conducted with a certain formality; at other times it took on the appearance and brutality of a kidnapping.
Unlike the other suspects who were taken away in so-called "ghost trains", this mixed group (handcuffed in pairs) was driven in three buses via Ostend to Dunkirk, where Degrelle was removed from the group.
While held at Barth, Casey was one of a group of prisoners known as "ghosts" who hid from the Germans within the camp for extended periods and did not attend the roll calls to give the impression that they had escaped.
He was working as a shop assistant when he enlisted in the Second Australian Imperial Force (AIF) in September 1941.
His group did not make a great distance before the alert was raised and the German authorities began a major man-hunt.
Education and Party membership In 1933, he began to study medicine in Munich, where he also joined the Nazi Party.
Sheehy-Skeffington witnessed the shooting but Lieutenant Wilson testified at the subsequent Royal Commission that he did not hear Sheehy-Skeffington make any protest.
Afterward, as was typical, he was accompanied to his Monroe Street apartment by Johnson and several Panthers: Blair Anderson, James Grady, Ronald "Doc" Satchell, Harold Bell, Verlina Brewer, Louis Truelock, Brenda Harris and Mark Clark.
A photograph showing Siffleet about to be beheaded was discovered by American troops in April 1944 and was thought to have depicted Newton in Salamaua, but there is no known photograph of the airman's execution.
The Baralong incidents were two incidents during the First World War in August and September 1915, involving the Royal Navy Q-ship HMS Baralong and two German U-boats.
Hundreds of media workers were beaten, imprisoned, kidnapped, or even killed for writing about corruption, repression, organized crime, and human right violations committed by the regime.
Roosevelt in October 1944, but the executions were delayed until after the end of the war in Europe due to the fear of reprisals against Allied prisoners held by Germany.
Since 2014, several Syrian journalists who were working from Turkey and reporting on the rise of Daesh have been assassinated.
As the airfield was attacked, he took cover in a ditch, and once the officer had delivered his package, he brought him back to England, a feat earning him a mention in dispatches.
One of the members was a known explosives expert while the others had been linked as well as convicted for various explosive and terrorist related activities.
Soon after the pro-Kurdish press had started to publish the first daily newspaper by the name of "Özgür Gündem" (Free Agenda) killings of Kurdish journalists started.
The family was devastated in 1873 when Ella's hemophiliac younger brother Friedrich, nicknamed "Frittie", fell through an open window, struck his head on the balustrade, and died hours later of a brain haemorrhage.
ECHR ruling Bitiyeva had filed a complaint against Moscow with the European Court of Human Rights in 2000 for abuse while in detention (this was then-second ECHR case from Chechnya), but she was murdered before the ruling was issued.
Russian war reporters Viktor Nogin and Gennadiy Kurinnoy, working for the All-Russia State Television and Radio Broadcasting Company, were shot, probably by Serbian rebels, on 1 September 1991.
Armenian officials also pointed out that representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross, were denied access to Saribekyan while he was in custody, which was later confirmed by ICRC representative Ilaha Huseynova.
He took part in the 'Great Escape' from Stalag Luft III in March 1944, but was re-captured and subsequently shot by the Gestapo.
With respect to international human rights law, it is noted that a government's responsibility regarding the right to life is not "passive." There should be laws against murder.
Dissidence It was during his university years that Ursu began keeping a diary, in which he expressed strong criticism of the Communist regime.
While denied by the US, where it is a crime to transfer anyone to any location for the purpose of torture, critics claim that torture has been employed with the knowledge or acquiescence of US agencies.
Judgment in the third case related to the bombing was adopted by European Court of Human Rights in 2015.
In 2006, Yandiev's mother sued Russia to the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) for failing to adequately investigate the case.
He was in the first group of “walkers” who followed, they were led by Williy Williams and posed as a band of lumber mill workers on leave, and included Australian Rusty Kierath, Johnny Bull, Doug Poynter, Ker-Ramsey, Canadian Jim Wernham and Pole Antoni Kiewnarski.
World War II and death Shortly after World War II broke out in Europe Johnston returned to Canada and joined the Canadian military.
In 1981, it was sold and the first would-be buyer, neighbours, who initially planned to lodge students and a nursery, refused after learning how the estate was used; another buyer acquired the property.
Friedrich Stephan (Danzig, 26 January 1892 – Ljubljana, 5 June 1945) was a Generalleutnant in the Wehrmacht of Nazi Germany during World War II.
In a statement issued on August 31, the public relations department of the IRGC Ground Forces said a DNA test confirmed the identity of the body delivered to the Lebanese Hezbollah earlier in the day as Hojaji.
As a junior pilot he flew as second pilot in experienced crews to gain experience but his operational career was to be short.
Confirmation of his new militant line came with publication of Las fuerzas secretas de la revolución (1932), Requejo's translation from Léon de Poncins, and with his own De la Revolución española.
Biography Cullen was born in Tenerife, Canary Islands, but moved to Argentina in the 1820s after establishing commercial activities (linked with fluvial trade) in the area.
The custom, inherited from colonial times, continued in use during and after the 1910 Revolution and was also used in the Cristeros War (1926–1929).
However, on December 9, 1943, Peter Dmytruk was arrested and because it was believed that the notorious "Pierre le Canadien" was responsible for the train sabotage, he was executed on the spot.
Khadim Hussain Sheikh, a journalist for the Urdu-language Khabrein, was killed in Hub, 14 April 2008.
Although the four escapees had split up pretending to be travelling individually hoping to reduce the risk of recapture they were all in the same railway carriage, more policemen arrived and closely examined every passenger, soon arresting all four suspects.
Fitzhugh, Lynching in the New South: Georgia and Virginia, 1880–1930, Urbana, IL: University of Illinois Press (1993), ISBN 0-252-06345-7 Caballero, Raymond (2015).
Kirpichnikov, however, became unpopular among some Imperial Russian officials due to his anti-imperialist stance.
His brother died in the Estonian War of Independence, 8 years older sister had died in Estonia a few years after World War II.
Despite being passed over for vice president, Frank remained active in the TWP and national politics.
He had given instructions that there would be no shots fired and it would take about 50 men to relieve the guards, as there were 42,000 "half-crazed" inmates, many of them typhus infected...
His father was a powerful witch-doctor (herbalist) who is said to have bequeathed him with magical powers.
It documents incidents motivated by political, sectarian, or extralegal factors where loss of life occurred, involving both state and non-state actors.
The Soviet Union regarded all Ukrainians as Soviet citizens and demanded their repatriation under the intra-Allied agreement.
What they did not say, is that as of April 30, Victor José Fernández Palmeiro (El Gallego), now next to the sixteen martyrs of Trelew, began to live in the heart of his town.
A list of journalists (listed chronologically since 1991) containing the names of the mass media workers who became victims of murders or died while in Ukraine.
The dog's head was also symbolic of their "nipping at the heels of the Tsar's enemies." They were sometimes called the "Tsar's Dogs" on account of their loyalty to him.
He became a well-known character in the prison camp system for his skilful drawing, as well as for his enormous handlebar moustache which had to be shaved off for the escape due to its unmistakable RAF style.
Shortly after its creation, al-Qaeda copied the idea and released their own film The Destruction of the Destroyer USS Cole, and afterwards many terrorist groups desired to document their "achievements" in such a manner.
'Great Escape' He was one of the 76 men who escaped the prison camp on the night of 24–25 March 1944, in the escape now famous as "the Great Escape".
Prized for its colourful foliage, which provides both summer and winter interest, it is widely available commercially.
The 10–16 cm white flowers that emerge from early to late spring, while beautiful and thick with a citrus-lemon fragrance, are prone to browning if subjected to frost.
Sunthorn Phu, Thailand’s eminent bard of the Early Bangkok Era, mentioned the plant in many of his poems.
It has been introduced and naturalized in some parts of Europe, including the Czech Republic and former Yugoslavia.
Endemic to Brazil, it is an evergreen shrub that becomes semi-deciduous in cooler areas and grows up to 1.8 meters (6 feet) in height.
The tree produces a fleshy, light green toxic fruit; once the fruit splits, the seeds are consumed by birds and other wildlife.
It is propagated by dividing the roots or cutting off a top and placing it upside down in a glass of water.
External links Russian website with several images of the iris Photo album Archived 2016-10-22 at the Wayback Machine Media related to Iris camillae at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Iris camillae at Wikispecies
There is a prominent, dark brown gland below the lowest pinna and sometimes a gland at the base of the uppermost pinnae.
Description The Weeping Higan Cherry grows to a height 20 to 30 feet (6 to 9 m) with a spread of 15 to 25 feet (5 to 8 m).
Spiraea salicifolia, the bridewort, willow-leaved meadowsweet, spice hardhack, or Aaron's beard, is a species of flowering plant in the family Rosaceae.
Very moist fields will have increased rates of infection as the amount of moisture makes it easy for the zoospores to move through the soil and infect tubers.
This chorological shift may possibly be due to climatic change and the migration of mountain flora by way of river courses.
"Blue-green" mealybugs are a group of related mealybug genera whose insides, during adulthood, are usually of the color which gives them their collective name.
Cultivation When grown in a garden it may require light pruning right after blooming, but otherwise plants can be left alone in fall and early spring.
The leaves stay glossy green throughout the summer and into the fall when they turn a vivid yellow before leaving the tree bare in winter.
External links Encyclopædia Britannica Clemson Home & Garden Medline Plus: Dieffenbachia Botanical Online: Dieffenbachia Speedup Video – Dieffenbachia growth
In the middle of the falls, is a dense, row of short hairs called the 'beard', which is dark yellow, or bright yellow with purple red tips.
Description The plant has aromatic glossy, green, round leaves, which show a deep purple color in the center sometimes and tend to trail, reaching a height of between 10 and 30 cm and extends around 60 cm.
Juveniles take 5–7 years to flower and set seed, whereafter the populations are ready to burn again.
A feature of the whekī is the spreading underground rhizomes which can create dense groves, making it one of the most common tree ferns in New Zealand forests.
The flowers display in a sequence from the lowest point, those following are in a progression of development.
The species has long falcate (sickle-shaped) or ensiform (sword-shaped) leaves, a long thick stem and large fragrant flowers that come in shades of purple brown, reddish-black, black-brown, dark brown, dark lilac or dark purple.
Distribution The species is found in coastal areas of Spain, Italy, Croatia and Albania In Italy it is found on the coast of Tuscany and western Sicily and on the islands of Capri and Li Galli.
The deciduous, elegant and compact multi-stemmed small flowering tree or large shrub, slowly attaining a height of 20 ft (6.1 m) and somewhat wider at maturity, is hardy to USDA Zone 4.
They are added to spreads such as butter or fruit preserves, as well as to vinegar, marinades, and dressings.
'White Rose' was an open pollinated seedling of ‘Ballerina.' Magnolia × loebneri is susceptible to magnolia scale, just like other saucer, star, and lily magnolias.
Violet species occupy a diverse array of habitats, from bogs (Viola lanceolata) to dry hill prairies (V.
More than ten subpopulations have been observed, and the species' estimated extent of occurrence is 2,750 to 3,000 km2.
integrifolia, but differs in having longer, narrower leaves, and follicles that are more deeply embedded in the old flower spike.
Etymology The species was originally called Nasturtium indicum ("Indian nasturtium") but the plant is not related to the true Nasturtium genus.
The pruning preserves the flower-bearing shoots of the preceding year, while keeping the tree low enough to allow the easy gathering of the fruit.
Some individuals have leaves with a surface that is scabrous (rough) or papillate (bearing minute, nipple-shaped protuberances).
Conservation It is range and habitat is a small region, and the plant was listed by the IUCN as 'rare'.
The flowers are fragrant, cup-shaped, 15–25 cm broad, with nine thick, creamy white to pink tepals; stamens ca.
Human use The whekī is quite hardy and tolerant to sun and some wind, but is best suited to a site with partial shade and minimal wind.
If more than half of the crown is defoliated, most hardwoods will produce a second flush of foliage by midsummer.
Ligularia przewalskii, also called Przewalski's leopardplant and Przewalski's golden ray, is a species of perennial herbaceous plant in the genus Ligularia and the family Asteraceae, native to damp places in Mongolia and Northern China.
In 1977, 47 species of the irises in the Oncocyclus section were analysed, and it was found to have a chromosome count of 2n=20.
Port Melbourne: Elsevier Australia - Inkata Imprint, copyright Forestry Commission of New South Wales (published 1989-12-01).
Growth Philodendron adamantinum is a shrub that grows up to 5 feet (1.5 m) tall, and its adventitious roots can spread 33 feet (10 m) in all directions.
sibiricus which were found in the most eastern part of the Western Sayan and in the upper Naryn River.
The tip of the leaf is usually blunt, often slightly notched at the tip, but can be pointed, particularly on strong-growing shoots on young trees.
Growing to about 6–12 inches (15–30 centimetres) tall, it makes a mass of pink, purple and white fragrant four petalled (cruciform) flowers.
Once valued because of its long, straight trunk, its current rarity and vulnerable status mean its wood is now rarely used; it is also sacred to some indigenous Mapuche.
These hosts include tobacco, zucchini, cucumbers, carrots, French bean, tomatoes, potatoes, and tulips.
It is noted for its centre turning red when it's about to flower, from where the common name (blushing) is derived.
These have been given similar common names, portmanteaus that combine the '-quat' ending of kumquat with an indication of the other parent citrus.
"Bromeliaceae da Mata Atlântica Brasileira: lista de espécies, distribuição e conservação" [Bromeliaceae of the brazilian Atlantic Forest: checklist, distribution and conservation].
It has also invaded the Kurulukele Forest Reserve in Kegalla, Sri Lanka, and other places where it has been planted as a decorative plant, or to hold steep banks along roads.
"Phylogenetic Analysis of Mealybugs (Hemiptera: Coccoidae: Pseudococcidae) Based on DNA sequences from Three Nuclear Genes, and a Review of the Higher Classification".
Distribution and habitat Coronidium newcastlianum is found along the Great Dividing Range in the Einasleigh Uplands bioregions of Queensland where it grows in eucalypt woodlands on rocky hills.
The palm's trunk grows to 9 m (30 ft) tall, or more sometimes, and is 20–25 cm (8–10 in) in diameter, when free of the leaf base fibers that tend to remain for a good while.
Malathion, methoxychlor, phosmet, trichlorfon, and synthetic pyrethroids (permethrin) are also registered with the EPA, but are used infrequently.
Distribution The species occurs naturally in parts of southern and central Africa, including South Africa, Eswatini, Mozambique, Malawi, Tanzania, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Angola.
Convolvulus cneorum, the silverbush or shrubby bindweed, is a species of flowering plant in the family Convolvulaceae, which contains many plants described as "bindweed".
It has remained in comparative obscurity until recently, when its qualities as a garden plant were at last realized.
The rose was awarded the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit in 1993 and inducted into the Rose Hall of Fame in 2009 as "World's Favourite Rose".
Haworthia zantneriana is a species of the genus Haworthia in the family Asphodelaceae, subfamily Asphodeloideae, endemic to the southern parts of the Western Cape and Eastern Cape Provinces in South Africa.
Yellow Bells have a similar nutrient profile to a potato but have 50 percent more protein, six times as much calcium, and nearly 30 times more iron.
The flowers are solitary yellow cups formed from four overlapping petals, 5–7 cm across, vaguely resembling the unrelated tulip; the two sepals underneath typically fall away as the flower opens.
Lilium speciosum contains phenolic glycosides, such as 6′-O-feruloylsucrose and (25R,26R)-26-methoxyspirost-5-en-3β-ol 3-O-α-l-rhamnopyranosyl-(1→2)-β-d-glucopyranoside, and steroidal saponins.
In the wild, plants are often half-buried, leaving only the tips of the leaves visible above the soil.
The flowers are grouped in panicles (with many branching stems), hence the specific epithet paniculata.
The taste and color of nectar widely vary between different species of flower; consequently, honey may vary in color and taste depending on the species of flower.
Virus taxonomy : classification and nomenclature of viruses : ninth report of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses.
During his historic journey, Meriwether Lewis collected a specimen while passing through Idaho in 1806.
A deciduous tuberous geophyte reaching 0.5 m (20 in), it is typically found in scrublands and forests at elevations from 1,300 to 2,400 m (4,300 to 7,900 ft).
It is also a popular ornamental tree in parks and large gardens, and along with the cultivar 'Golden Spreader' has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
The cultivar 'The Rocket' is a recipient of the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Description Jasmine can be either deciduous or evergreen, and can be erect, spreading, or climbing shrubs and vines.
It has inflated, green spathes (leaves of the flower bud), that are 10 cm (4 in) long, and the perianth tube is about 3 centimetres (1.2 in) in length.
Erythronium dens-canis, the dog's-tooth-violet is a bulbous herbaceous perennial flowering plant in the family Liliaceae.
The species was first described by Carl Linnaeus in his landmark 1758 10th edition of Systema Naturae.
Haworthia retusa, Haworthia bayeri, Haworthia springbokvlakensis, Haworthia mirabilis, Haworthia emelyae and Haworthia magnifica).
This species is variable and has multiple different regional forms: Flowers appear in September and October.
Distribution and habitat Euonymus alatus′s native distribution extends from northeastern Asia to central China.
Calathea louisae) is a species of plant belonging to the genus Goeppertia, native to Rio de Janeiro state of southeast Brazil but cultivated in other places as an ornamental.
Hybrids and cultivars In 1897, an illustration in The Garden magazine of 31 July, showed a border in Mr Van Tubergen's nursery with 400 flowers, which are the results of 3 seasons of cultivation of the irises.
These flowering trees are beautifully colored and are often planted both privately and commercially as ornamentals.
Host plants Buddleja – Buddleia, butterfly bush Himantoglossum hircinum – lizard orchid Scrophularia – figworts Verbascum – mulleins References Bibliography Heath, John; A.
Its leaves are usually 10–50 mm long and 5–30 mm wide, and may vary in size, texture, colour and margin.
Zoospores are motile asexual spores that can move through soil water through the use of their flagella.
The conventional way this fruit is eaten is when the outer casing is still unripe while the seeds are eaten as the fruit.
These hybrids combine some of the edibility properties of the more typical Citrus species with the cold hardiness of the kumquats, often being referred to as cold hardy citrus.
Taxonomy The species was first described by a Scottish botanist David Don in 1834 from the type specimen: This singularly beautiful species of Anigozanthos was raised in the garden at Whitmore Lodge, Berks., the seat of Robert Mangles, Esq.
The leaves resemble those of the closely related Eschscholzia, being finely divided into many gray-green linear lobes.
This type of grassland has been reduced to a fraction of its pristine range by forces such as overgrazing and the channelization of water.
For example, TNV has a high level of resistance to heat and chemical agents, as well as to degradation due to aging.
The origin of the popular English language name "monkey puzzle" lies in its early cultivation in Britain c.
Taxonomy For a general description of the taxonomic and nomenclature confusion, see Paghat's Garden, especially for the relationship between T.
The trees are dioecious, and the fruit is a hard-shelled bean in heavy, woody, thick-walled pods filled with sweet, thick, gooey pulp.
Many sources claim that roasting the seeds for a certain length of time can reduce or eliminate the cytisine thought to be in them, but this is not based on scientific evidence.
Another common (but somewhat ambiguous) name is "yellow bells", since it has a bell-shaped yellow flower.
The leaves that it produces in the spring are large, up to 16" (40 cm) long, among the largest of all colchicum species.
They are part of the necklace that a plant deity wears in a vase found in the Templo Mayor, although it could also be T.
The heavily clustered figs suggest fecundity, and some trees in East Africa have been venerated as sacred shrines in animist practices.
yamasakura, and cultivars of Sato-zakura group such as 'Fugenzo' and 'Mikurumakaishi' began to appear.
Wilt disease caused by a particular nucleopolyhedrovirus (LdNPV) that is specific to the gypsy moth is its most devastating natural disease, causing a dramatic collapse of outbreak populations by killing both the larvae and pupae.
However officially according to the World Checklist and The Plant List it is considered Narcissus cernuus.
Ecology Ruffed lemurs are a known pollinator of this plant and given the size and structure of the inflorescences, as well as the lemur's selectivity, method of feeding, and long muzzle, this relationship is thought to have coevolved.
The specific epithet divaricata is from Latin and refers to the wide-spreading branchlets of the flower panicle.
Codiaeum variegatum, commonly known as croton or variegated croton amongst many other names, is a species of plant in the Euphorbiaceae family.
In Japanese, fugen refers to Samantabhadra and zo refers to an elephant, and the origin of the name comes from the fact that the two pistils, which look like leaves, were likened to the tusks of a white elephant on which Samantabhadra rides.
Olive growing in the United States is primarily concentrated in warmer regions like California, Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Georgia, and Florida.
Leaflets are 5 to 15 cm long, 1.5 to 6 cm wide, hairy and leathery, and usually not with a sharp point.
Boea is a genus of plants in the family Gesneriaceae, with species originating from Australia, China, India, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Polynesia, Solomon Islands, Thailand, Papua New Guinea, Indonesia, Nepal, Bhutan, Cambodia, Vietnam and Laos.
In 1969, Albert Smith transferred the species to Tasmannia based on its chromosome number of 13, compared to 43 in most others in Drimys.
Amberboa moschata (common name sweetsultan) is a Southwest Asian species of plants in the family Asteraceae.
In the temperate zones of Europe many of the hybrid large flowering sorts of gladiolus can be pollinated by small well-known wasps.
amazonica has longer leaf blades ((20–)30–40(–50) cm × (10–)12–18 cm), subulate free filaments (2.8–3.4 mm wide at the base), and staminal cups (11.2–13.8 mm long to the apex of teeth) longer than free filaments (6.5–8(–10) mm long).
The cultivars 'Compactus' and 'Fire Ball' have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
The leaves are dark green, elliptic toothed and 2–4 cm long, with irregularly lobed margins, and turn to yellow and reddish tones in autumn.
The glossy, evergreen foliage forms a billowing mound, with many fragrant, pure white flowers in tight clusters for several weeks during spring and early summer.
Description Magnolia campbellii is a medium-sized to large deciduous tree growing to 30 m, rarely to 45 m, tall, with smooth grey bark.
These flowers are variously coloured, ranging from pink to reddish or light purple with white, contrasting markings, or white to cream or orange to red.
It varies little except in northern New South Wales and southern Queensland, where some populations appear to be intermediate with B.
Ecology Pests and diseases The tree has considerable variability in resistance to Dutch elm disease; for example, trees from north-western and north-eastern China exhibit significantly higher tolerance than those from central and southern China.
Though Swingle had speculated that the Meiwa kumquat was a hybrid of oval and round kumquats, the genomic analysis suggested instead that the round kumquat was an oval/Meiwa hybrid.
The fruit is a dehiscent, two-chambered capsule, black/brown, densely hairy and about 35 mm (1.4 in) wide and long.
quadrans Hopper Distribution of the subspecies is as far north as Shark Bay, variation in habit and structure of the subspecies is otherwise discrete.
Cultivation A number of geranium species are cultivated for horticultural use and for pharmaceutical products.
In cultivation, it is preferable to keep a cold temperature, but more than 2 °C (36 °F) This plant has won the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Magnolia 'Butterflies' is a hybrid Magnolia that is the offspring of a cross between the cucumbertree Magnolia acuminata (seed parent) and the Yulan magnolia Magnolia denudata (pollen parent).
The hindwing of the male is whitish, with dark veins and cellspot, becoming diffusely fuscous along the termen; in the female it is darker throughout.
It occurs on various wild and garden forms of anemone, and has particular commercial importance on Anemone coronaria grown for cut flowers, for example in France and Italy.
Some have been assigned separate species names, though there is no agreement on the validity of these names.
Achillea is a reference to the Greek hero Achilles, who was trained to use herbs by his mentor, the centaur Chiron.
The species is reportedly naturalised in Florida, Chiapas, Central America, Queensland, and much of the West Indies.
Some studies indicate the effectiveness of the latter in the prevention of coronary artery disease, heart attacks, immune response, old age and cancer.
Meissner divided Brown's Banksia verae, which had been renamed Eubanksia by Stephan Endlicher in 1847, into four series based on leaf properties.
References External links Viburnum leaf beetle on the UF / IFAS Featured Creatures Web site [1] PEST ALERT: Viburnum Leaf Beetle [2] Penn State College of Agriculture Gardeners' World Bugguide.net.
Miscanthus nepalensis, Himalayan fairy grass, is a species of flowering plant in the grass family Poaceae, native to mountain slopes in China (Sichuan, Xizang, Yunnan), Bhutan, India, Myanmar and Nepal, and introduced in Malaysia.
Their salmon-colored, broadly egg-shaped to almost circular corolla lobes are narrowed or rounded at their tip and have a length of 2 to 4 millimeters and are 1.5 to 3 millimeters wide.
They are slightly succulent, fleshy with a waxy glossy surface, 3–5 centimetres (1.2–2.0 in) wide and 3.5–13 centimetres (1.4–5.1 in) long, with a petiole of about 1–1.5 centimetres (0.39–0.59 in).
The long-lasting, capitate-pyramidal inflorescences, branched at the base and simple at the apex, are composed of spike-like inflorescences.
Phytochemistry The seeds are very poisonous, containing erythroidine, a powerful muscle relaxant; erythroresin, an emetic; coralin; and erythric acid.
Iceland poppies are amongst the best poppies for cutting, as they last for several days in the vase.
In the mid-seventh-century Lombard laws, a composition of one solidi is set for felling a chestnut tree (or, also, hazel, pear or apple) belonging to another person (Edictum Rothari, No.
A western form, inhabiting shale rocks near Oudtshoorn, is sometimes considered a separate species, Haworthia truteriorum.
Native to central and southern Chile and western Argentina, it is the hardiest species in the conifer genus Araucaria.
It is a native of Eastern Cape Province, South Africa, and found in arid shrublands, most commonly on ridges and slopes with shallow soils.
Toxicity Like many other irises, most parts of the plant are poisonous (rhizome and leaves), and if mistakenly ingested can cause stomach pains and vomiting.
Sap Obtaining the sap traditionally involves tapping the top shoots and collecting the dripping juice in hanging earthen pots (in some regions a plastic or bamboo bottle).
Description This species has a fast growth rate of up to 10 to 80 cm (4 to 31 in) a year, growing to about 6 m (20 ft) tall.
Trollius asiaticus, the Asian globeflower, is a species of ornamental plant in the family Ranunculaceae, which is native to Asia and Europe.
Gallery References ANU Forestry Illawarra plum - Podocarpus elatus Bruneteau, Jean-Paul, Tukka, Real Australian Food, ISBN 0-207-18966-8.
The type specimen was collected by Edward Palmer, one of the main US plant collectors of his time, in the Mexican state of Tamaulipas (possibly near Ciudad Victoria) in 1907.
Though perennial, the species is often cultivated as a biennial or annual plant, particularly in colder areas where it may not survive the winter.
Cultivars Several cultivars have been named, including 'Alba' (white flowers), 'Charles Raffil' (bright purple-pink flowers; starts flowering on younger trees), and 'Strybing White' (white flowers).
Botanist Karl Moritz Schumann named it after Wilhelm Lenninghaus (1845-1918), a native of North Rhine-Westphalia who, in the 1880s, left his hometown of Ennepetal and emigrated to Porto Alegre, Brazil, where he became Guillermo Lenninghaus, and collected cacti for the German grower Haage.
A spreading perennial, it is recommended as a pollinator-attracting ground cover, for rock and gravel gardens, and for planting beneath roses.
Primula is found in mountainous or higher latitude zones of North America, Europe, and Asia, with extension into South America, Africa (mountains of Ethiopia) and tropical Asia (islands of Java and Sumatra).
It is not hardy, and requires protection when temperatures fall below 5 °C (41 °F) (USDA Zones: 9a–11b).
See also Tristaniopsis collina, hill water gum Syzygium francisii, giant water gum Syzygium crebrinerve, black water gum == References ==
Hoya carnosa, the porcelain flower or wax plant, is a species of flowering plant in the family Apocynaceae, native to East Asia.
Occurrence The lenga beech can be found in the Torres del Paine National Park, Tierra del Fuego National Park, Los Alerces National Park and Nahuel Huapi National Park among other places.
When mature, 'Stargazers' can grow to a height of 36 inches with a spread of 10 to 14 inches with 2 to 8 flowers per stem.
It is found in eastern South Africa in the provinces of KwaZulu-Natal, Mpumalanga and Limpopo, Namibia, Angola and Botswana and in eastern tropical Africa into Ethiopia.
Rubrums were a predecessor commercial lily to the 'Stargazers' whose flowers pointed down to the ground.
It prefers sunshine and moist (but drained) soil, and is tolerant of severe winter cold, but not heat.
Its rosette of succulent leaves are turned back ("retuse") so as to provide a flat and level face, on the surface of the ground.
The stimulus is transmitted as an action potential from a stimulated leaflet to the leaflet's swollen base (pulvinus), and from there to the pulvini of the other leaflets, which run along the length of the leaf's rachis.
It is native in Greece and Albania and may be naturalized elsewhere in Mediterranean Europe where it occurs in maritime sandy habitats and in waste places.
Evidence of large amount of macro-charcoals in the top layers of soil suggest that Alsophila tricolor establishes itself in areas where anthropogenic fires occur.
Pure stands usually indicate sites unfavorable to conifer growth or recurring disturbance such as fire or logging activities.
Haworthia retusa, Haworthia bayeri, Haworthia springbokvlakensis, Haworthia pygmaea, Haworthia mirabilis and Haworthia magnifica).
It is a banyan of the genus Ficus which contains around 750 species worldwide in warm climates, including the edible fig (Ficus carica).
The cypselas are about 1.3 mm (0.051 in) long and the pappus has thread-like bristles joined at the base.
In spite of its scientific and common names, it is native to the western Mediterranean region, and it has been introduced to the British Isles, and to Tasmania.
It was verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 4 April 2003, then updated on 18 January 2006.
In the face of urban development, inappropriate fire management, and invasive alien trees such as pines and gums, silvertrees have been driven from about 74% of their natural range.
Root rot can be a problem in potted indoor plants, if the soil is too moist or does not contain enough inert drainage material.
Use in horticulture A cultivar known as Kennedia nigricans 'Minstrel' was registered with the Australian Cultivar Registration Authority by Goldup Nursery of Mount Evelyn, Victoria in September 1985.
Its leaves can be up to 25 cm (10 in) long, with a mix of purplish, green, and silvery green blotches.
It is native to tropical and Southern Africa but has become naturalized in other parts of the world, including Western Australia and Bangladesh.
The common names comes from that of Cornus sanguinea, the hard wood of which Northern Europeans used to make nails ("dags") during the medieval era.
External links Erythrina coralloides photos International Legume Database & Information Service: Erythrina coralloides
Hoya carnosa has been in cultivation for more than 200 years and has given rise to many cultivars that vary in foliage form or flower color.
Podocarpus elatus, known as the plum pine, the brown pine, the Illawarra plum or the Queensland Christmas tree, is a species of Podocarpus endemic to the east coast of Australia, in eastern New South Wales and eastern Queensland.
The species has been collected in a tropical deciduous forest, among roadside limestone rocks, and on limestone outcrops.
The gravel along railroad beds provides ideal conditions for its growth - well-drained, nutrient-poor soil, and high light conditions; these beds provide corridors that facilitate its spread.
Since the 2000s, bara has been used by non-Japanese audience as an umbrella term to describe a wide variety of Japanese and non-Japanese gay media featuring love and sex between masculine men.
Description Pelargonium radens is an evergreen perennial plant, growing to up to 1.5 m (4 ft 11 in) high.
Interns, aides, and other White House workers are often granted clippings of the famous plant which they grow and further distribute to friends and family.
The stem has pale green spathes, (leaves of the flower bud), that are between 10–12.5 cm (4–5 in) long.
It can usually be distinguished from these however, by the tip of the free portion of each drupe of its fruit-head, which usually does not have an areole.
In spring (November to December) it bears 15 cm (6 in) long stems of green-white, tubular flowers in racemes.
It is adapted to a wide variety of fire regimes, with intervals ranging from just one year on dry sites, to 500 years or more in moist, riparian zones.
The flowers are star-shaped, with at least 12 thin, delicate petal-like tepals, some cultivars having more than 30.
The flowers are 2.5–6 cm in diameter, mildly scented, with five petals, eight stamens, and a 2.5–3-cm-long nectar spur at the rear.
Cultivars of French origin include Bouche de Betizac, Maraval, Marigoule, Marsol, and Precoce Migoule.
Although Alan Meerow and Bijan Dehgan in 1984 corrected this mistake, the long-time confusion between the two species has persisted and U.
The species is cultivated as an ornamental and has become naturalized in many areas, including Pakistan, Australia, New Zealand, and in southern and western parts of the United States.
Soil moisture levels that are close to field capacity, whether the water comes from rainfall or irrigation, have been shown to increase the likelihood of soil-borne diseases.
See also List of Philodendron species References Media related to Philodendron erubescens at Wikimedia Commons
The pollen production of P.rhoeas, on a per flower basis, was very high in comparison with the other plants tested, at almost triple the amount of the top-ranked perennial (a mallow).
Cultivars References Martinelli, Gustavo; Vieira, Cláudia Magalhães; Gonzalez, Marcos; Leitman, Paula; Piratininga, Andréa; Costa, Andrea Ferreira da; Forzza, Rafaela Campostrini (January 2008).
External links The dictionary definition of kumquat at Wiktionary Data related to Fortunella at Wikispecies Kumquat at the Wikibooks Cookbook subproject
Arytera divaricata, known as the gap axe, coogara, coogera or rose tamarind is a forest tree of eastern Australia.
Uses Trachycarpus fortunei has been cultivated in China and Japan for thousands of years, for its coarse but very strong leaf sheath fibre, used for making rope, sacks, and other coarse cloth where great strength is important.
Wildlife value This is one of the food plants for the caterpillars of several butterflies and moths, including the gatekeeper and the meadow brown, the small heath, and the grass moth Agriphila inquinatella.
odorata adds inimitable sweetness to desserts, fruit salads, and teas while the mild pea flavor of V.
Until recently, only a few of the ten or so species that exist have been used in breeding programs for the hybrids available in the market; most of the cultivars available as house plants are derived from Streptocarpus ionanthus (syn.
Use as a natural dye Like other goldenrod species, the leaves and inflorescences of tall goldenrod are widely used as a natural dye.
Uses Lolium multiflorum is widely used to provide large forage yields in short term leys where persistence of the crop is not a priority.
It was verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 4 April 2003 and then updated on 2 December 2004.
barbata does not cluster with the remaining species previously assigned to that genus, without creating five further subgenera.
The leaves are strongly aromatic when crushed, egg-shaped with the lower end towards the base, often appearing wedge-shaped, 4–6 mm (0.16–0.24 in) long, 3.5–5 mm (0.14–0.20 in) wide and sessile or on a petiole up to 0.5 mm (0.020 in) long.
While they have reached maturity by autumn, producing 3-5 seeds each, it is not until the spring, after they've been exposed to freezing and thawing, that the bitter fruits become a favorite food source of many birds and mammals.
Gallery See also Kitchen garden Hwajeon, a small sweet pancake made with edible flower petals References Further reading Barash, C.
Capraria lanceolata L.f.) is a species of shrub in the potato family Solanaceae that is native to tropical regions of North and South America.
In contrast with the angular notching of the silver maple, however, the notches tend to be rounded at their interior.
Description Kalanchoe sexangularis is a succulent, perennial that reaches heights of 20 to 100 centimeters.
In May, it has fragranced flowers (between light yellow to mustard), with a dark signal patch and yellow beard with purple tips.
Since crape myrtles are found in many places, opinions differ as to how to cultivate them in landscaping.
Description It is a twining evergreen climber, growing to 3 metres (9.8 ft) or more, with panicles of brilliant scarlet flowers in summer.
hygroscopica, also known as the Queensland rock violet in Australia, occurs in Cape York Peninsula and Northeast Queensland as far south as Rockhampton, from 60–900 metres (200–2,950 ft) elevation.
Taxonomy Acacia elata was first formally described in 1842 by the botanist George Bentham from an unpublished description by Allan Cunningham in William Jackson Hooker's London Journal of Botany.
Selected child plants include, 'Anne Boleyn' (1991), 'Evelyn' (1992), 'The Pilgrim' (1991), 'Versigny' (1992), 'Charlotte' (1994), 'Molineux' (1994), and 'Charity' (1998).
The upright racemes appear white, pale violet or pale pink and can sprout sporadically throughout the year (but more typically in spring and late autumn), which form verticillasters of 2-4 flowers and 2–3 mm bracts.
Trollius asiaticus, is considered to be a key ancestral specie as it acts a maternal form from which other species such as T.
The soft, silky leaves are shiny silver, lanceolate, 8–15 cm long and 2 cm broad, with their distinct silvery sheen produced by dense velvety hairs.
Cultivated roses are often subject to severe damage from insect, arachnid and fungal pests and diseases.
So, instead of the common western phrase 'white as snow', what often appears in Hindu mythological stories is 'white as kunda'.
On each side of the leaf, five to eight side veins extend from the midrib, most of which are straight.
The bark on young trees is very distinct, smooth, glossy bronze-yellow, but becoming fissured and dull dark grey-brown with age.
Acer palmatum, commonly known as Japanese maple, palmate maple, or smooth Japanese maple (Korean: danpungnamu [단풍나무]; Japanese: irohamomiji [イロハモミジ] or momiji [紅葉]), is a species of woody plant native to Korea, Japan, China, eastern Mongolia, and southeast Russia.
Oxalis purpurea is a species of flowering plant in the woodsorrel family known by the common name purple woodsorrel.
Many commercial florists report that while most consumers love the appearance and the fragrance of the Stargazer lily and other Oriental lilies (e.g.
Distribution and habitat Magnolia delavayi is native to southern China, occurring in Guizhou, Sichuan and Yunnan at 1,500-2,800 m of elevation.
References External links USDA Plants Profile for Clusia rosea Calusia rosea; University of Florida Cooperative Extension, 22 April 2019 Hear.org Photo Gallery — Clusia rosea
Candidum (Euro-Caucasian) hybrids (Division III) This includes mostly European species: Lilium candidum, Lilium chalcedonicum, Lilium kesselringianum, Lilium monadelphum, Lilium pomponium, Lilium pyrenaicum and Lilium × testaceum.
Uses The plant is propagated by corms and plant division, and is a popular ornamental in both the local and international markets.
Description This fern is known to grow to heights of 10 metres (33 ft) or more (though it occasionally takes a rare creeping form).
It is a hemiepiphyte; that is, it grows as an epiphyte on rocks or other trees at the start of its life and behaving like a strangler fig as it gets larger.
palmatum cultivar, with small leaves yellow with orange in spring, green in summer, orange-yellow in autumn.
See also List of foliage plant diseases (Cactaceae) References External links Nemaplex, University of California - Heterodera cacti
Dome-like in shape, it has a denser foliage with dark green, leathery leaves and hence provides more shade than eucalyptus trees.
Both sides of the leaf are glabrous, the tip is acuminate or shortly tapering, the base is acuminate to blunt or occasionally shortly tapering.
Crocus vernus (spring crocus, giant crocus) is a species of flowering plant in the family Iridaceae, native to the Alps, the Pyrenees, and the Balkans.
barberae × dichotoma), a fast-growing cultivar developed in Swellendam, which has a grey trunk, and more slender grey-green leaves with pink teeth.
Research has shown the species to be non-native to northern states such as Pennsylvania, and only being a recent arrival.
The tree typically grows from 9–25 meters (30–82 feet) in height and from 0.3–1.4 m (1–4+1⁄2 ft) in diameter.
Biodegradable plastics production In a novel application, US scientists have genetically modified switchgrass to enable it to produce polyhydroxybutyrate, which accumulates in beadlike granules within the plant's cells.
Clerodendrum splendens, the glory tree or flaming glorybower, is a species of flowering plant in the genus Clerodendrum of the family Lamiaceae, native to tropical Western Africa.
Takahashia japonica - the string cottony scale - is an insect pest of ornamental- and economic trees in the Coccidae family.
Growing African violets from seed is rare, and most commercially available plants are produced from cuttings and tissue culture.
platypoda to be most closely related to the ancestor of two other arid Northern Territory species (F.
The species is named for the park for which it was first discovered, Prühonice Park in the Czech Republic.
Female plants produce orange-red ovoid drupes, which are about 8 mm in diameter and 10 mm in length.
Named after the Russian explorer Nikolai Przhevalsky, it used to be called Senecio przewalskii Maxim.
In cultivation This is a very popular ornamental tree in subtropical and tropical climates, grown for its scented flowers and also used as a food item in many South Asian cuisines.
The leaves are ovate to ovate-oblong, 10–20 cm (rarely to 32 cm) long and 5–10 cm (rarely to 20 cm) broad, tough, leathery, with a 5–7 cm petiole.
Iberis is so named because many members of the genus come from the Iberian Peninsula in south west Europe.
Pythium: Wilting in the plant may be caused by a Pythium species fungal infection if the plant is receiving adequate water.
In maple syrup production from Acer saccharum, the sap is extracted from the trees using a tap placed into a hole drilled through the phloem, just inside the bark.
National sport teams using the silver fern include: The silver fern is also extensively used as part of the official symbols of New Zealand Olympics teams.
The growth starts in October and should start with careful watering; water should never be poured directly on the rhizomes.
Plants may end up being completely defoliated due to their feeding activities, sometimes resulting in their death.
It has thick and very glossy leaves which vary considerably in size, depending on exposure to the elements.
Trachycarpus fortunei 'Wagnerianus' is unknown in the wild, but may have originated in cultivation in Japan, where it was first discovered by the horticulturalist Albert Wagner of Leipzig, Germany in the second half of the 19th century (in 1873).
Description The plant grows slowly, reaching 30–90 cm (12–35 in) in height, with a spread of up to 60 cm (24 in).
Cultivation Magnolia delavayi is grown as an ornamental tree for its evergreen foliage as well as flowers.
Description 30cm in height and width, the plant features irregular, spidery leaves (hence its name), and produces long-lasting, vibrant pink flowers in spring and autumn.
Description Growing to 30 cm (12 in) tall and broad, it is an evergreen shrub with leaves heavily-spotted pink or white, as if sprayed with paint.
The naked appearance of the tree is reflected through the Kentucky coffeetree's Greek genus name, which means "naked branch".
Phyllosticta alliariaefoliae is a fungal plant pathogen infecting bellflowers (Campanula carpatica).
However, the species has a wide ecological tolerance in the UK, occurring on both basic and acid soils, as well as old mining sites and spoil heaps that are contaminated with heavy metals.
The blooms can appear nearly all year in mild-winter areas, but the heaviest flowering is from February to July.
The light green, delicate looking deciduous leaves consist of many segments, and are alternately arranged on new growth.
Other English names include striped dracaena (for variegated cultivars), corn plant (for the cultivar 'Massangeana'); Chinese money tree, and fortune plant.
In northern coastal habitats it is often associated with Aextoxicon punctatum, Beilschmiedia miersii, Cryptocarya alba, and Schinus latifolia.
During the flowering period of Narcissus 'King Alfred', hundreds of blooms would be sent by train to London.
Zonnefeld (2208) discusses its status, believing both on genetic information and morphology and distribution that it is a separate species from Narcissus triandrus.
It is found from Lane County, Oregon, south through the Cascade Range, the Sierra Nevada, and the Coast, Transverse, and Peninsular Ranges to San Diego County, California.
The fruit is a heavy woody cone, containing numerous seeds; each seed is a small nut with a silky-haired helicopter-like parachute, enabling it to disperse by wind.
Natural regeneration is quite limited due to the scarcity of mature, seed-bearing plants and the fact that this tree's population mostly consists of widely scattered individuals.
Some Boea species are known as types of resurrection plant due to their ability to survive desiccation (e.g.
Description It is a fast-growing plant, either annual or perennial, with trailing stems growing to 0.9–1.8 m (3–6 ft).
In the early part of the 21st Century, Sun Valley Farms in California, a large commercial flower farm, developed a pink lily similar looking to the Stargazer that had no fragrance.
The leaves are 10–23 cm (rarely to 33 cm) long and 4.5–10 cm (rarely to 14 cm) broad, fuzzy underneath and with an acute apex.
Taxonomy First found in Dagestan, Iris timofejewii was first published and described by Yury Nikolaevich Voronov in 'Not.
Extraction of the wood with acetone, followed by analysis of the extract, indicate that the essential oil of Juniperus cedrus is particularly rich in thujopsene, which comprises around 2.2% of the weight of the heartwood.
This can most easily be demonstrated by carefully breaking a leaf across, then gently pulling the two halves apart (see illustration).
Usefully, the fruits can be collected and picked up from the tree or ground at any time during fall, winter, and spring.
Of the four forms, varieties or subspecies, the largest is the "Bemavo", from the hills of eastern Madagascar, which can be 100 feet (30 metres) in height with a trunk 2 feet (60 cm) thick.
It requires a subtropical/temperate climate with abundant rainfall, tolerating occasional frosts down to about −5 to −20 °C (23 to −4 °F).
In this kind of habitat it is an important species for preventing erosion and slowing runoff by trapping sediments.
Dixon examined the morphology of the Ficus leucotricha and Ficus platypoda complexes and divided them into: Ficus atricha, Ficus brachypoda, Ficus cerasicarpa, Ficus platypoda.
It is closely related to the New Zealand and New Caledonian genus Libocedrus, and some botanists treat it within this genus, as Libocedrus chilensis, though it resembles Libocedrus less than the other South American cypress genus Pilgerodendron does.
Flowers are inflorescent with a 2–5 cm peduncle, 6.4-11.4 cm single leaf surrounding the stamen (called a spathe), and a 5.5 cm-12.5 cm spadix.
Cultivation With a minimum temperature of 10 °C (50 °F), it requires the protection of glass during the winter months in most temperate regions.
All the literature of the old Tamil was written in preserved palm leaves also known as Palm-leaf manuscript.
Narcissus 'Rip van Winkle' is an heirloom cultivar of Narcissus, which was first introduced commercially in 1884.
As the International Dahlia Register has three inadequately described cultivars labelled 'Sunshine', it was not possible to connect 'Moonfire' with one of these cultivars.
Height: 6" - 1' (15 cm - 30 cm) Spread: 4" - 6" (10 cm - 15 cm) Depth: 3" (7 cm) Uses: Edging, Ground cover, Patio and Containers If planted in early spring it will grow and flower throughout spring and summer.
Flowering occurs from spring to early summer and is followed by fruit which are more or less spherical to oval or barrel-shaped, about 3 mm (0.1 in) in diameter, sparsely arranged along the branches.
Folk medicinal Ecuador The plant is but one of as many as 71 different medicinal plant species, from 33 different plant families, used in the preparation of Ecuadorian Horchata, a tonic drunk to improve physical and spiritual well-being in Ecuadorian folk medicine.
Uses Araucaria angustifolia is a popular garden tree in subtropical areas, planted for its unusual effect of the thick, 'reptilian' branches with a very symmetrical appearance.
aureum cannot propagate on a large scale due to its lack of seed banks as well as its minimal immunity to herbicides.
callizona in their native range are much smaller than Florida populations because they are likely regulated a specialist parasitoid that is not present in the invaded Florida range.
On the other hand, the consumer must consider that roasting, boiling or frying has a big impact on the nutritional profile of chestnut.
The flower stem is usually covered with coarse hairs that are held at right angles to the surface, helping to distinguish it from P.
By the time Carl Meissner published his 1856 arrangement of the genus, there were 58 described Banksia species.
Its seed capsules are filled with irritating hairs giving rise to common names, itchy bomb tree, and cow itch tree.
In 1947, Queen Elizabeth II received a diamond brooch in the shape of this flower for her twenty-first birthday while traveling in Rhodesia, now called Zimbabwe.
It has become naturalised in parts of Ireland and western Great Britain and it has been planted in Spain.
It is also used for timber, and as a traditional medicinal plant for heart conditions, asthma, and stomach pain.
Sections of genus Primula The classification of the genus Primula has been investigated by botanists for over a century.
Fritillaria pudica, the yellow fritillary, is a small perennial plant found in the sagebrush country in the western United States (Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington, Wyoming, very northern California, Nevada, northwestern Colorado, North Dakota and Utah) and Canada (Alberta and British Columbia).
Kalanchoe 'Tarantula', or Kalanchoe katapifa 'Tarantula', is a succulent cultivar in the kalanchoe genus that produces small bouquets of pink flowers.
Habitat It is considered useful as a street tree due to its disease and pest resilience, its high tolerance for smog, drought and poor drainage, and its minimal maintenance needs.
Female spikes are approximately 2–4 centimetres (0.8–1.6 in) long and 4–6 millimetres (0.16–0.24 in) wide.
It is occasionally referred to as misty plume bush and is commonly used as a decorative garden plant due to its flowers when in full bloom.
The larvae of the death's head hawkmoth (Acherontia atropos) and the fulvous hawkmoth (Coelonia mauritii) eat the leaves of this plant.
Viburnum rhytidophyllum, the leatherleaf viburnum, is a species of flowering plant in the family Viburnaceae.
The number of bracts and sepals together varies up to 10 or 11, sometimes forming a less or more conspicuous involucre.
Haworthiopsis limifolia, formerly Haworthia limifolia, is a species of flowering plant in the family Asphodelaceae.
Wagner made several collecting trips to Japan and China in the 3rd quarter of the 19th century (as well as frequent trips to the Caribbean and South America.) He had a flourishing business growing palms in his steam-heated greenhouses in northern Germany.
It is Imperiled (S2) in Maine and New Brunswick and Critically Imperiled (S1) on Prince Edward Island.
It has a relatively large rhizome from which many fine rootlets covered in dark reddish-brown scales grow.
Some protection should be considered over the winter months in climates with temperatures below 4–5 °C, e.g.
The petals are pale lavendar to almost white with reddish or purple blotches inside, 9–15 mm (0.35–0.59 in) long, forming a tube 6–8 mm (0.24–0.31 in) long.
Several mammals and birds eat the pinhão, and it has an important ecological role in Araucaria moist forests (a sub-type of the Brazilian Atlantic Forest).
Within temperate Asia, it is found in the Caucasus regions of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, and Ciscaucasia.
Like other irises, it has 2 pairs of petals, 3 large sepals (outer petals), known as the 'falls' and 3 inner, smaller petals (or tepals), known as the 'standards'.
It is similar to other magnolias in that it likes rich, moist soil and should be planted in a location where it is protected from elemental extremes.
Description Leaves are thin, glossy, light green, entire or with wavy margins, 10–12 cm x 6–9 cm, often rounded and rarely oblong-elliptic, deeply or shallowly lobed, cordate or cuneate at the base.
The Mancunian singer Morrissey is known to dance with gladioli hanging from his back pocket or in his hands, especially during the era of The Smiths.
Description Unlike other species in the genus, it is an evergreen shrub rather than a vine, forming a low mound 0.6–1.2 m (2 ft 0 in – 3 ft 11 in) in height, with a similar spread.
In the Edo period, various double-flowered cultivars were produced and planted on the banks of rivers, on Buddhist temples, in Shinto shrines and in daimyo gardens in urban areas such as Edo, and the common people living in urban areas could enjoy them.
The fronds are small and compact, making this fern an ideal container or garden plant where space is limited.
The inflorescences are short and upright and appear on branch ends from early autumn to early spring (March to September in Australia).
The leaves vary greatly in their shape, they are almost sessile, the petiole is only 1 to 4 mm long, glabrous and dark purple colored.
platypoda with Ficus leucotricha, which was described by Miquel in 1861, however as the former name is older, it has become the accepted name instead.
The largest Kentucky coffeetree in New Hampshire, at 91 ft tall, is on the campus of Dartmouth College.
Bee mortality At the Arnold Arboretum, dead bees have been observed inside bigleaf magnolia flowers.
It has been cultivated since the 1500s for hedges and similar applications, but is not particularly well-behaved.
Philodendron domesticum, also called the spadeleaf philodendron, the elephant ear philodendron, or burgundy philodendron, is a plant in the genus Philodendron.
Description Trachycarpus 'Wagnerianus' is an easily identified cultivar, with small, stiff leaves (much unlike that of Trachycarpus fortunei).
Tillandsia ionantha, the air plant (a common name shared by most species in its genus), is a species of plant in the genus Tillandsia.
Biochemistry Rosemary essential oil contains about 150 phytochemicals, including rosmarinic acid, camphor, A-pinene, caffeic acid, ursolic acid, betulinic acid, carnosic acid, and carnosol.
A decoction of citrons, or the juice extracted from them, is used as a gargle to impart sweetness to the breath.
References Martinelli, Gustavo; Vieira, Cláudia Magalhães; Gonzalez, Marcos; Leitman, Paula; Piratininga, Andréa; Costa, Andrea Ferreira da; Forzza, Rafaela Campostrini (January 2008).
Erythrina coralloides (flame coral tree, naked coral tree) is a species of flowering tree in the pea family, Fabaceae, that is native to eastern Mexico.
Cultivation Certain species of crape myrtle are used in landscaping and gardening as screens, lawn specimens, shrub borders, and container plants.
Other former members of the genus are now classified in Erodium, including the plants known as filarees in North America.
Pests Fuchsia microphylla is vulnerable to whiteflies, capsid bugs, red spider mites, rust, aphids, black vine weevil, smut, gray mold, fuchsia gall mite, and fuchsia flea beetle.
It is common in the Chilean Coastal Range, and less common to the east in the foothills of the Andes.
Syzygium nervosum is a species of tree native to tropical Asia and Australia, extending as far north as Guangdong and Guangxi in China and as far south as the Northern Territory of Australia.
They are generally oblanceolate to obovate in shape, although can be ovate or lanceolate and are usually toothed, though some varieties are not.
'Graham Thomas' has been described as "the most popular" of Austin's creations and has won numerous horticultural awards.
The threads appear at points that coincide with the positions where major veins in the leaf have broken.
The specific epithet (elata) means 'tall or elated', "in reference to this being one of the tallest species of Acacia".
A rounded deciduous shrub reaching 1 m (3 ft), its cultivar 'Golden-Ness' has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit as an "ideal" ornamental suited for borders, patios, and containers.
Native to the Caucasus mountains and eastern Pontic Mountains of northeastern Turkey west to about 36°E.
Dixon altered the delimitations of the series within the section, but left this species in the series Malvanthereae.
Description Hoya carnosa makes faintly succulent shoots with smooth, pale gray, and bare surfaces that twine and climb.
The leaves have oil dots and are distinctly aromatic when crushed, with aromas reminiscent of lemons.
The conical panicle is 5–20 centimetres (2–8 in) long, with 3 to 5 branches in the basal whorls; the oval spikelets are 3–6 millimetres (0.12–0.24 in) long with 2 to 5 florets, and are purplish-green or grey.
Its seeds are elliptic, smooth, glossy, coral-red, with a salient longitudinal line on the back, and with a white hilum surrounded by a black border.
Campyloneurum phyllitidis was grown in England during the Victorian era, when ferns were particularly popular (the phenomenon known as pteridomania).
Begonia venosa, the veined begonia, is a species of flowering plant in the family Begoniaceae, native to eastern Brazil.
– Baltic States and northern and Central European Russia Description Poa pratensis is a herbaceous perennial plant 30–70 centimetres (12–28 in) tall.
"Hiding in plain sight, Ficus desertorum (Moraceae), a new species of rock fig for Central Australia".
Ecology Erythronium dens-canis is found in damp, sunny or lightly shaded settings such as meadows and open woodland, mainly growing at altitudes of 500–2,000 m.
The stem has 3 acute, carinate (ridged or keeled), lanceolate, (scarious) membranous, spathes (leaves of the flower bud).
A reduced immune system may have facilitated the establishment and sustained maintenance of the symbiotic relationship between the Buchnera bacterium and A.
Haworthia pygmaea is a species of the genus Haworthia in the family Asphodelaceae, endemic to the Mossel Bay area of the Western Cape, South Africa.
She sent specimens of the plant and its flowers to the Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew, where in 1874 it was named by William Turner Thiselton-Dyer (1843–1928) in her honour.
It is smaller, dull-green, with silver lines or flecks on its leaves, which have more strongly toothed margins.
dealbata in the Sierra Madre Oriental of Querétaro, Veracruz, Hidalgo, Nuevo Leon, Tamaulipas and San Luis Potosí correspond to more recently-described species including Magnolia nuevoleonensis, Magnolia rzedowskiana, and Magnolia vovidesii.
It is a perennial whose erect stems are somewhat woody at the base, and may reach 60 cm (24 in) in height.
The nut itself is composed of two skins: an external, shiny brown part, and an internal skin adhering to the fruit.
The first specimen arrived in Florida on the decorative Tillandsia ionantha bromeliad from Mexico, on which adults feed but do not lay eggs.
Some of the more commonly grown species include: All the above species are perennials and generally winter-hardy plants, grown for their attractive flowers and foliage.
suffruticosa by Émile Lemoine has led to the introduction of the color yellow into the cultivated double-flowered tree-peonies.
In 2005, a medical research paper was released studying its uses, finding it had antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory effects in mice.
Cultivation Native frangipani is widely cultivated and usually grows to around 8 metres in height although it can grow to over 20 metres tall in the rainforest.
Fruits are red (or rarely yellow), shiny, and globose (spherical, or nearly so), with a diameter of 4–8 mm.
bracteata is a useful tree in cultivation because it will grow almost anywhere and because of its compact shape and many flowers.
The selection, 'Leonard Messel' was a chance hybrid that was developed at Messel's garden in Sussex, Nymans.
Because of its evolution, the fruit developed merely as a small, ovoid cherry-like fruit, but it doesn't develop past a small amount of fleshy mass around the seed; as P.
Cultivation In cultivation it requires a minimum temperature of 10 °C (50 °F), so is grown under glass in temperate locations.
Most of these cultivars are considered “self-heading”, and not climbing; in time, they form dense, compact colonies of individual plants, originating from a single larger stalk.
Known for its attractive fruit that remain on the tree well into winter, its cultivar 'Red Sentinel' has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit as an ornamental.
Numerous cultivars are available, including plants with lavender, orange, pink, yellow, or white flowers, and also plants with peloric flowers, where the normal flowering spike is topped with a single large, symmetrical flower.
By removing red maple from a young forest recovering from disturbance, the natural cycle of forest regeneration is altered, changing the diversity of the forest for centuries to come.
Commercial cultivars All commercial cultivars resemble strawberries more closely than they do Comarum.
Color Full® Feather Touch™ Prayer Plant, 'Maui Queen', 'Misto', and 'Variegated' are cultivated varieties.
Malcolmia maritima, also known by its common name Virginia stock, is a popular annual garden plant from the family Brassicaceae.
See also List of Cyperus species References External links Media related to Cyperus alternifolius at Wikimedia Commons
This species is closely related to the Kobushi magnolia (Magnolia kobus), Magnolia stellata was accepted as a distinct species in the 1998 monograph by Hunt.
Biochemistry In 2001, a karyologic study was carried out on various irises in the Alpine-Dinaric region (relating to the Dinaric Alps mountain chain), which included in addition Iris cengialti, Iris illyrica and Iris pallida.
Colchicum macrophyllum has large, funnel-shaped flowers in the fall with much tessellation throughout the bloom.
Cultural associations Birth Violet is the traditional birth flower for February in English tradition.
japonica was then found in Croatia in 2019 in Pula, but was not identified until found again on Albizia julibrissin in May 2020.
The great ability to adapt to poor soils is due to mycorrhizal fungi, which increase the absorption of water and nutrients and also are potential determinants of plant community structure.
Pea aphids are models for deciphering the origin and consequences of asexual reproduction, an important question in evolutionary biology.
Hemerocallis flava, known as lemon daylily, lemon lily, yellow daylily, and other names) is a plant of the genus Hemerocallis.
dealbata, but these are now treated as separate species, Magnolia ashei in Florida, and Magnolia dealbata in eastern Mexico.
The plants may also be attached using superglue, hot glue, or silicone sealant (preferably labeled as pond- and fish-safe, which is commonly used with plants).
While the exact relationships between various scale insects are often contested, one suggestion is to class all (and only) the blue-green mealybugs in the sub-family Trabutininae.
Magnolia liliiflora × Magnolia stellata, hybrid obtained at the US National Arboretum by Francis DeVos and William Corsair.
geminatus, Euscelidius variegatus, Fieberiella florii, Graphocephala confluens, Gyponana lamina, Keonella confluens, Norvellina seminuda, Osbornellus borealis, Paraphlepsius irroratus, and Scaphytopius delongi.
Liparia splendens (locally called orange nodding-head or mountain dahlia; “Skaamblom” (Shy flower) in Afrikaans) is a flowering fynbos shrub of the Fabaceae (legume) family, that occurs in the South-western Cape of South Africa.
Originally the grove was mis-identified as a part of a program to remove invasive species, but the North Carolina Forest Service helped to confirm the proper identification of the trees.
Sowing seeds in the spring is ideal because the temperature is pleasant, with more chances of rain and sunshine.
It is one of Rwanda's most popular herbal remedies and has been used throughout its range to treat cough, malaria, diarrhea, dengue fever, headaches (inhaling the leaves scent), toothache and some other ailments.
The sugar maple can be confused with the Norway maple, which is not native to America but is commonly planted in cities and suburbs, and they are not closely related within the genus.
The tree's thin bark is easily damaged from ice and storms, animals, and when used in landscaping, being struck by flying debris from lawn mowers, allowing fungi to penetrate and cause heart rot.
The leaf margins are recurved, occasionally to the extent that the leaf may be cylindrical in cross-section.
Variegated white, cream, yellow, yellow-orange, or light green cultivars mostly require shade protection.
Jasminum fluminense (which is sometimes known by the inaccurate name "Brazilian Jasmine") and Jasminum dichotomum (Gold Coast Jasmine) are invasive species in Hawaii and Florida.
The symbiosis also makes every plant interconnected with the surrounding plants, making possible the exchange of nutrients between plants far from each other.
Popular culture The word "daffodil" has been used widely in popular culture, from Dutch cars (DAF Daffodil) to films (Daffodils) to slurs against homosexuals and cross-dressers (as in the film J.
These flower spikes fade to brown and then grey and develop woody follicles bearing the winged seeds.
Inflorescences The terminal or axillary, umbelliferous or racemose inflorescences consist of a few to a few flowers.
Uses Ornamental Due to their appearance and hardiness, like many plants in the sedum family, tree stonecrop are cultivated as garden plants.
It is native to north Africa and temperate Eurasia and is introduced into temperate areas on all other continents except Antarctica.
A perennial arising from a corm and reaching 90 cm (35 in), it has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit under its synonym Gladiolus communis subsp.
The light to dark green colored calyx is 18 to 32 mm (0.71 to 1.26 in) long and has a diameter of 6 to 10 mm.
The epithet officinalis at that time could not be used because the name Salvia officinalis had already been published, so Spenner used the combination Salvia rosmarinus as a replacement name for the replaced synonym Rosmarinus officinalis.
The flowers are hermaphrodite and whitish yellow and arranged in terminal panicles 4–8 cm (1.6–3.1 in) long.
Description This is an upright shrub or small tree that is typically between 10 and 15 feet at maturity though it may grow larger provided partial shade.
Bouteloua curtipendula, commonly known as sideoats grama, is a perennial, short prairie grass that is native throughout the temperate and tropical Western Hemisphere, from Canada south to Argentina.
The cultivar was originally developed in The Netherlands, but mistakenly supplied to Bridgmere Nurseries (UK) as an unnamed seedling, where it was named by Chris Sanders.
Many asphodels are popular garden plants, which grow in well-drained soils with abundant natural light.
Poetry The asphodel is mentioned by several poets in connection with the mythology of death, and by association, the afterlife - specifically the Isles of the Blessed and Elysium - part of the ancient Greek concept of the afterlife.
Lilium philadelphicum is the floral emblem of Saskatchewan province in Canada, and is on the flag of Saskatchewan.
The species, as well as some cultivars, have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Flowers The solitary flower arises on a stemlike peduncle and has five petals which may exceed two centimeters in length.
Conservation Alocasia micholitziana was formerly common in its native range but is now rare due to overcollection.
Canna News: Comparison of Crozy and Italian Groups See also Canna List of Canna species List of Canna cultivars
The 'Pacific Giant' hybrids are a group with individual single-colour cultivar names, developed by Reinelt in the United States.
Range and habitat Ravenala madagascariensis is widespread in Madagascar, including humid lowland forests, montane forests, grassland, and rocky areas, from sea level to 1,500 meters elevation.
Cultivation Plants grow best under cool, moist conditions, and resent hot sunny locations where they wilt extensively.
The Weeping Higan Cherry blooms in the spring, having light pink (almost white) flowers that cover the branches before the leaves emerge.
They are a popular house plant in many countries, as they can flower during most of the year and are fairly durable to neglect.
The flowers once newly emerged start off pale yellow in colour, before fading to white as they mature.
Malus halliana is an East Asian crabapple species of Malus, known by the common name Hall crabapple.
Those are cooked in sugar syrup and used as a spoon sweet known in Greek as "kítro glykó" (κίτρο γλυκό), or diced and candied with sugar and used as a confection in cakes.
Varieties It is a relatively widespread species, with several known varieties, including arcana, gigantea, glaucophylla, keithii, striata, ubomboensis.
It has long narrow leaves, short stem, and flowers with a white background which is covered with very small dots or veins of dark maroon, purple, purplish-maroon, or almost black.
Gallery References External links Magnolia × loebneri images in the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University Plant Image Database Gapinsky, Andrew.
The dwarf Gartenzwerg group, and the cultivars 'Solar Fire Orange' and 'Summer Breeze Orange' have all won the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
The flowers of unmodified wild species vary from very small to perhaps 40 mm (1.6 in) across, and inflorescences bearing anything from one to several flowers.
Growing to 20 cm (8 in) tall, it is a bulbous perennial with wavy red-margined sword-shaped leaves, and bowl-shaped red flowers in early to mid-spring.
Description A bulbous herbaceous perennial, it produces up to 30 pink flowers in characteristic allium umbels in the mid to late summer and grows 8–40 inches (20–102 cm) in height.
Distribution and habitat Tasmannia purpurascens grows in forests with Antarctic beech and eucalypt species, at altitudes of 1,200–1,520 m (4,000–5,000 ft).
Description This species is one of the "retuse" species of Haworthia, meaning that it usually grows sunken beneath the ground with its flattened leaves only showing on the surface.
It is native to South America, namely to Southeast Brazil, but is also cultivated as a houseplant in cooler climates.
Sedum dendroideum, commonly known as the tree stonecrop or the false hens-and-chickens, is a shrub-like perennial plant that looks much like its Sempervivum look-alike.
It was first described by Carl Friedrich Philipp von Martius in 1850 in his Historia Naturalis Palmarum but under the illegitimate name of Chamaerops excelsa.
Species There are about 260 species of Gladiolus endemic to southern Africa, and about 76 in tropical Africa.
The flowers contain about 130 milligrams (0.0046 oz) vitamin C per 100 g (3+1⁄2 oz), about the same amount as is contained in parsley.
Other common names in English include Australian ryegrass, short rotation ryegrass, and Westerwolds ryegrass.
It may be found in dryish, loose soil; it is amongst the first plants to flower after the snow melts, but the flower does not last very long; as the petals age, they turn a brick-red colour and begin to curl outward.
Bioenergy-specific cultivars are developed to maximize lignocellulosic biomass for renewable fuel production and are particularly valuable in sustainable energy systems.
The inflorescences are terminal, are sitting or almost sitting and consist of one to eleven flowers .
A well-drained soil is suggested for this plant, achieved by using a potting mix with 20% sand content, and 5mm (~0.2 inches) of scoria or other drainage material in the bottom of the pot.
These traits include enhanced "competitive nodulation, nodule development, intracellular infection, and bacteroid persistence".
Several other similar Italian Group cultivars were also given this name as a synonym, but examination of the evidence from early adverts and catalogues shows there is no grounds for confusing these cultivars with C.
Malus transitoria, the cut-leaf crabapple, is a species of flowering plant in the crabapple genus, Malus.
Roughly speaking, these subspecies can be identified as being from the eastern and western parts of the North American continent.
Melanium, and have four petals pointing upwards (the two side petals point upwards), and only one pointing down, whereas those considered to be "violets" are classified in Viola sect.
Hemerocallis lilioasphodelus grows in big, spreading clumps, and its leaves grow to 75 cm (30 in) long.
Cultivation The cultivar is said to be adaptable to a wide range of climatic conditions including a moderate tolerance of frost.
The leaves are marbled in glaucous green and pinkish-brown or purple, and are ovate to lanceolate; they grow in pairs.
Neoregelia carolinae, the blushing bromeliad, is a species of flowering plant in the genus Neoregelia.
It is commonly known as the pyramid tree, Norfolk Island hibiscus, Queensland white oak, sally wood, or simply as white oak on Norfolk Island.
Since the pathogen can not live outside of host cells, it must be transmitted to a new plant host by an infected leafhopper.
Some of these are not winter-hardy in cold areas and are grown in specialized gardens like rock gardens.
The cones are 5–10 mm long, with four scales, two very small sterile basal scales and two large fertile scales; each fertile scale has two winged seeds 3–4 mm long.
The female cone is egg-shaped and up to 40 cm (15.5 in) long and 20 cm (8 in) in diameter while the male cone is largely cylindrical narrowing towards the ends up to 40 cm (16 in) long and 12 cm (4.5 in) in diameter.
callizona beetles eat the leaves of host bromeliads, which is usually not fatal to the host plant; however, larval life stages mine the tissue of the plant stems and often lead to plant death.
The trunk is up to 15–30 cm (6–12 in) diameter, with a very rough texture with the persistent leaf bases clasping the stem as layers of coarse dark grey-brown fibrous material.
Cultivation Several cultivars are grown as ornamental plants in gardens, including 'Bronze Charm' as well as series such as Gem ('Bright Gem', 'Red Gem' and 'Salmon Gem') and Jewel ('Apricot Jewel', 'Yellow Jewel').
The milkwood has considerable value in traditional medicine and attracts birds, monkeys and other animals to its flowers and fruits : Speckled mousebirds eat the flowers ; birds, bats, monkeys and bush pigs eat the fruit.
The flowers are solitary, pink or lilac (rarely white), with six tepals around 3 cm long; these are reflexed at the top and yellow tinted at the base, and with dark purple anthers.
Xylem rays were one cell wide; they were straight and consisted of radially elongated thick walled lignified walls.
Cultivars bred for ornamental use include the common 'Eximia', the smaller, more floriferous 'Floribunda', and 'Macrantha', which has larger flowers without white throats.
Modern uses of the herb include its use as a flavouring, as a dried flower, and as an ornamental herb.
Philodendron adamantinum, synonym Thaumatophyllum adamantinum, is a plant in the genus Philodendron, in the family Araceae.
Sophocles referred to the narcissus as the "Chaplet of the infernal Gods", a statement frequently wrongly attributed to Socrates (see Antiquity).
Fabavirus is a genus of plant viruses (plant pathogens) in the order Picornavirales, in the family Secoviridae, in the subfamily Comovirinae.
During the 1990s, botanists began experimenting with hybrids of Poa pratensis and Texas bluegrass (P.
One study compared the sap and syrup from the sugar maple with those of the red maple, as well as those of the Acer saccharinum (silver maple), Acer negundo (boxelder), and Acer platanoides (Norway maple), and all were found to be equal in sweetness, flavour, and quality.
It is generally considered to be a native tree of China, although some authors maintain that it is native to Japan, and was introduced into China.
Biochemistry A study was carried out in 2013, to find out what oils are contained in the rhizomes of various irises in Syria, including Iris germanica, Iris barnumiae, Iris bostrensis and in I.
It is evergreen, with small, fragrant, oval leaves 2.0 to 2.5 cm long and 1.5 broad, and profuse white flowers in early to midsummer.
Linnaeus used the Latin name "narcissus" for the plant but was preceded by others such as Matthias de l'Obel (1591) and Clusius (1576).
Distribution The natural range of this species is in the south-eastern part of the Western Cape Province, South Africa.
The findings suggest that these rapid movements based on propagating Ca2+ and electrical signals serve a protective role for the plant against insect herbivory.
perenne in its spikelet, which has a long bristle at the top, and its stem, which is round rather than folded.
Acacia elata, commonly known as cedar wattle or mountain cedar wattle, is a species of flowering plant in the family Fabaceae and is endemic to New South Wales.
Range Invasive range First detected in Italy, in Cerro Maggiore, in 2017 on Morus nigra, and the United Kingdom in December 2018 in Berkshire on Magnolia.
Flowers are 50 mm wide and consist of densely arranged and narrow petals, which also possess small patches of green pigment.
Malus × robusta, called Siberian crab apple along with other members of its genus, is a hybrid species of flowering plant in the family Rosaceae.
When Mengniu had financial trouble as the result of business following its role in the 2008 Chinese milk scandal, in July 2009, Mengniu sold a 20% stake to a consortium led by the state-owned COFCO Group, China's largest importer and exporter of food.
Black tar heroin is often produced in Latin America, and is most commonly found in the western and southern parts of the United States, while also being occasionally found in Western Africa.
Contaminated syrups The outbreak in Madhya Pradesh was primarily linked to Coldrif, produced by Sresan Pharmaceuticals, which contained approximately 48.6% diethylene glycol (DEG), far exceeding permissible limits and causing multiple child fatalities.
Health concerns Because of the woody core of the cobs of corn, the alcohol produced contains high levels of methanol, which is toxic.
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev called for a ban on non-traditional alcoholic liquids like bath oils, saying "it's an outrage, and we need to put an end to this".
Justice Woodward noted that the scale of the operation could not be properly assessed due to attempts to cover it up, but said that the types of meat used as substitutes would be easily obtained in the eastern states of Australia.
The company supplies 2,300 institutions within the UK, including schools, old-age people homes, prisons and branches of the armed forces.
Excessive intake of NPN can have adverse effects on animal health and productivity, as well as environmental implications.
See also Antioxidant Photolysis (photodegradation) Radical (chemistry) References External links "Weird chemical used in plastics has erupted as latest fentanyl adulterant".
Despite his requests, the Army was dedicated to supporting the Chicago meatpacking industry, which eventually shipped hundreds of tons of refrigerated and canned beef to the Army from the mainland.
Police found photos of contaminated baby food on his laptop with jars identical to those found in Rochdale.
Counterfeit cannabis buds: Hemp buds (or low-potency cannabis buds) laced with synthetic cannabinoids.
The municipal pharmaceutical inspector, María Elisa Álvarez Obaya, started to think about possibility of poisoning, when she noticed four victims had been in the same party.
However, according to the internationally harmonized guideline, ICH Q7, API manufacturers are fully responsible for qualifying their suppliers through on-site audits, testing, and regular communications.
The bribery allegation indicates that Maiden Pharmaceuticals had foreknowledge that their cough syrup was tainted.
Miles made reference to "embalmed beef." Miles, a Civil War Union Army veteran, had many years of experience with army provisions.
Preparation Due to the pungent smell of the distilling process, Tharra is often prepared in remote fields, away from human settlements.
The first factory was established in the Volta Region, taking advantage of the area's supply of sugar cane plantations.
TOCP was originally thought to be non-toxic; however, it was later determined to be a neurotoxin that causes axonal damage to the nerve cells in the nervous system of mammals, especially those located in the spinal cord.
Investigation, arrests and court case On the Sunday morning the local police were informed of the deaths of a man named Elijah Wright and two boys, aged 9 and 14, the sons of John Scott; it was thought that the cause of the deaths was cholera.
The 2011 Turkish Riviera mass alcohol poisoning was an event that occurred on May 26–27, 2011, during a party on a yacht voyage of mostly female Russian tourists on the way from Bodrum to Antalya, southwestern Turkey.
On 9 January 2020, a police report indicated quantities of diethylene glycol in one brand of beer from the small upscale brewery Backer that could have poisoned 18 people in Belo Horizonte and other cities in Minas Gerais state.
At the time, concerns arose that the scandal would affect the beef-exporting industry, as the United States was the largest importer of Australian beef.
Cocaine is prohibited in competition for athletes by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), which lists it as a stimulant on its International Standard for the Prohibited List.
The eggs contained 4.7 ppm (part per million) of melamine, compared to the government imposed legal limit of 2.5 ppm for melamine in food.
2008 16 July: Gansu Province reports to the Ministry of Health that local hospitals had identified an increase in the incidence of kidney ailments among babies in the months earlier, and that most victims had consumed Sanlu's baby formula.
Adverse effects People who intravenously inject black tar heroin are at higher risk of venous sclerosis than those injecting powder heroin.
Alger from the Chicago "big three" meatpacking corporations, Morris & Co, Swift & Co, and Armour & Co.
Background Alcohol poisoning incidents are common in India, where poor people often cannot afford licensed liquor.
[was] apparently preserved by injected chemicals to aid deficient refrigeration," the medical officer wrote.
It is not clear whether the FDA checked samples of the same brands of food in which acetaminophen was allegedly found because the initial laboratory could not initiate contact with the FDA or publicly identify the manufacturer because of client confidentiality.
Most of the victims were foreign workers from Bangladesh, Indonesia, Myanmar, and Nepal, as well as several Malaysians.
Background Deaths from illicit liquor are common in India, where illegally manufactured alcohol is often consumed for reasons including poverty and geographic isolation.
It is prepared by boiling barley grains or rice and some local herb known as Phab in water and then fermenting the material.
Before modern microbiology, foodborne illness was not understood, and, from the mid 1800s to early-mid 1900s, was perceived as ptomaine poisoning, caused by a fundamental flaw in understanding how it worked.
Until October, 45 people from the total of 98 cases have been reported dead by the Malaysian Health Ministry.
The scandal As a result, most of the meat arriving in Cuba was found to be so poorly preserved, chemically adulterated, or spoiled so that it was toxic and dangerous to consume.
The Tammany Hall politician Alderman Michael Tuomey, known as "Butcher Mike", defended the distillers vigorously throughout the scandal—in fact, he was put in charge of the Board of Health investigation.
In its natural state, nitrogen exists primarily as a gas (N2) in the atmosphere, making up about 78% of the air we breathe.
The four products were Promethazine Oral Solution, Kofexmalin Baby Cough Syrup, Makoff Baby Cough Syrup, and Magrip N Cold Syrup.
The original Xuzhou Anying wheat gluten was "human grade," as opposed to "feed grade," meaning that it could have been used to make food for humans such as bread or pasta.
The whole act was repealed by section 1 of, and the first schedule to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1958 (6 & 7 Eliz.
One month after the initial recall, contaminated rice protein from a different source in China was also identified as being associated with kidney failure in pets in the United States, while contaminated corn gluten was associated with kidney failure with pets in South Africa.
Laboratory grade is suitable for use in educational settings, but is not acceptable for food or drug use.
However, Clemenceau judged that the law must show strength and appealed to the army to restore order.
Planning In 1981, several thousand of Rajneesh's followers had moved onto the "Big Muddy Ranch" in rural Wasco County, Oregon, where they later incorporated as an intentional community called "Rajneeshpuram".
Black tar heroin's unique appearance and texture are due to its acetylation without the benefit of the usual reflux apparatus.
History Issue Chicken eggs were found to contain fipronil and distributed to 15 European Union countries, Switzerland, and Hong Kong.
The poisoning was precipitated by drinking counterfeit surrogate alcohol—actually scented bath lotion that was marked as not safe for consumption.
The two Australian victims, both 19 years old, initially fell ill on 13 November, after a night of drinking with a group of others.
United Kingdom In the United Kingdom, Arla is distributed by Volac, which also distributes Nestle, First Milk and Wilmar.
We found out that my nephew was poisoned by that drug through the results of medical examinations in Karshi.
Therefore, keeping cows stabled near distilleries and feeding them with swill was an economic advantage.
She added that even though she felt the alcohol tasted unusually strong, she did not realise anything.
Additional features can include cough, fever, fatigue, joint pain, edema, and numbness or tingling, usually in the limbs, hands and feet.
Some of the commonly used grades of purity include: ACS grade is the highest level of purity, and meets the standards set by the American Chemical Society (ACS).
After the negotiation and the agreement to move to avoid collective punishment, the mutineers of the 17th were assigned to Gafsa in Tunisia.
Outbreaks caused by infectious agents Outbreaks caused by chemical contamination See also List of epidemics List of food contamination incidents == References ==
In November 2024, six people died from suspected methanol poisoning at a bar in Vang Vieng, Laos, as a result of consuming contaminated alcohol.
You were carrying on your life normally while hoping to make yourself rich by threatening Tesco in this way while endangering the life of others in the process.".
2006 – China Wang Guiping discovered how easy it was to enter China's pharmaceutical supply business and earn extra money.
The Gambia cough syrup scandal refers to the deaths of 70 children in The Gambia from the consumption of four cough syrups manufactured in India.
"Arege mogo" which first originated in Lira district in northern Uganda made and sold all over the country .
The United States Army beef scandal was an American political scandal caused by the widespread distribution of extremely low-quality, heavily adulterated beef products to U.S Army soldiers fighting in the Spanish–American War.
It is engaged in processing and manufacturing of milk products, including ice cream, milk tea powder, sterilized milk and fresh milk under "Yili" brand, powdered milk under "Pro-Kido" brand, and organic milk under "Satine" brand.
Brown-brown, or brown cocaine, is a purported form of cocaine or amphetamine insufflation mixed with smokeless gunpowder.
Methamphetamine MSM is sometimes used as a cutting agent for illicitly manufactured methamphetamine.
Uses In many countries, sales of alcoholic beverages are heavily taxed for revenue and public health policy purposes (see Pigovian tax).
Video games In the video game Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty (2001), Raiden divulges his experience as a child soldier and references the use of brown-brown.
"The new standard requires Fonterra to purchase on segregated supply palm oil by 2018, and to work with suppliers of palm products to ensure that plans are in place for full traceability to plantation by 2018", said Fonterra's director of social responsibility, Carolyn Mortland.
Impact Tesco was forced to issue a product recall of 42,000 jars after the contaminated jars were found in Lockerbie and Rochdale.
A scandal involving 240 tons of gutter oil in Taiwan affecting hundreds of companies and thousands of restaurants, some of which may have been exported overseas, broke in September 2014.
According to legend, locals rushed in boats to save him or preserve his body from being eaten by the fish.
Since 2008, Chang Guann had imported 56 batches of lard oil weighing 2,385.1 tons from Hong Kong, about 300 tons of which were purchased from Globalway Corp between 2011 and 2014.
It is made from yeast fermentation of sugarcane, or wheat husk, especially in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana.
10 illegal liquor shops in the Diamond Harbour subdivision, one of the affected communities, were shut down by the police as well.
13 September: Production halted at Sanlu; nineteen people are arrested; Baidu denies ever agreeing to bury Sanlu negative news 15 September: Beijing confirms two babies dead.
Indian authorities, however, did not find any toxins but did identify labeling issues with Maiden Pharmaceuticals' cough syrup.
Food and Drug Administration was quoted as stating that at least 81 deaths were believed to be linked to a raw heparin ingredient imported from the People's Republic of China, and that they had also received 785 reports of serious injuries associated with the drug's use.
Weight cutting agents: Binding substances: Sometimes cannabis is adulterated with other binding substances including industrial glues such as neoprene, tar, ammonia, bitumen, petroleum-derived hydrocarbons, dog food or even human or animal excrement.
Cause According to police, the victims suffered methanol poisoning from methanol that had been added to the liquor to increase its potency.
References External links Guangdong Yashili Group Co Ltd Archived 2021-05-02 at the Wayback Machine Yashili International Holdings Ltd
Ltd teamed up with Arla Foods, the largest producer of dairy products in Scandinavia, to produce and distribute solid milk products in China, including Hong Kong and Macau.
Gray death is a slang term which refers to potent mixtures of synthetic opioids, for example benzimidazole opioids or fentanyl analogues, which were often sold on the street misleadingly as "heroin".
Harry Gross and his part-owner of Boston-Hub Products, Max Reisman, were ultimately fined $1,000 each and given a two-year suspended jail sentence.
He ate some of the sweets and by 5:30 pm he became ill; he went home and left his assistant to look after the stall until it closed at 11:30 pm, by which point about a thousand sweets had been sold.
Bangalore police arrested a kingpin of the illicit liquor network, but the prime supplier committed suicide.
Health risks Although practiced for many centuries, the drinking of realgar wine and the painting of children with realgar have come under scrutiny in modern times.
Tests revealed that they were horse meat, not beef, and further testing elsewhere in the United States revealed that some Australian "beef" contained kangaroo meat.
Halifax 1902 beer poisoning Such contamination was tied to an outbreak in the borough of Halifax in January and February 1902 where 13 to 14 cases of arsenic poisoning were noted, three deadly.
As of 1998, US Customs regulations on "country of origin" have stated that if a non-origin nation is shown on the label, then the real origin must be shown on the same side of the label and in comparable size letters so as not to mislead the consumer.
Around 30 people in connection with the distribution have been arrested despite little response and insufficient enforcement of the black market in the country from the authorities has attracted criticism.
Other studies have highlighted numerous major flaws in many of the epidemiological studies on the association of tryptophan with EMS, which cast serious doubt on the validity of their results.
See also Human subject research legislation in the United States List of medicine contamination incidents 1985 Austrian diethylene glycol wine scandal == References ==
Behzod Musayev, the minister of the health department of Republic of Uzbekistan, sent a video message of condolence to the parents and relatives of 18 children who died after taking the Dok-1 Max drug.
In the United States, the cookies are primarily found in Asian specialty stores and some Hispanic specialty stores.
Government actions The Tamil Nadu state drug control department cancelled all manufacturing licenses of Sresan Pharma.
It should no longer be issued." Miles also made public statements, reported in the newspapers, claiming that the canned meat was the after-product of the process for making beef extract.
The WHO has urged countries to enhance surveillance and offer support to countries lacking testing resources.
His successor, Yeh Ching-chuan, announced a return to the original zero-tolerance policy to melamine.
This means that 50% of street heroin in the UK in 1995 had worked its way from producer to user without being cut at any stage, although other adulterants may have been present.
Although the first case of a fatality from the related ethylene glycol occurred in 1930 and studies had been published in medical journals stating DEG could cause kidney damage or failure, its toxicity was not widely known prior to the incident.
Both sites were kept under 24-hour video surveillance for several months, but the killer did not surface.
This would have followed the Army's traditional practice of procuring fresh beef from local sources.
In 2005, AQSIQ established a sui generis system to cover the use of geographical indication products through the 2005 Provisions on the Protection of GI Products.
"Industry, government and enforcement agencies should, as a precautionary principle, always put the needs of consumers above all other considerations, and this means giving food safety and food crime prevention—i.e.
On 7 July 1981, about 300 people (Official figures 229) around the Tannery Road area died as a result of consuming this spurious alcohol.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also monitored hospitals and poison control centers during this period, and reported on 2 May 2007 that there had been no increase in reports of kidney disease.
Sales of Yashily branded infant formula increased by 27.3% while sales of the firm's Scient brand declined 0.8%.
While ya dong may legally be prescribed as a tincture by traditional medicine practitioners, in modern times, with legal restriction on alcohol production, it has become associated with illegal spirit production and is often described in English as moonshine.
At least 58 people died from consumption of tainted liquor and more than 200 people were admitted to hospitals.
According to Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders), a minimum of 2,601 people died in Russia as a result of methanol poisoning between 2015 and 2025.
Incident On 18 May 2008, some people from the Bangalore Urban, Bangalore Rural and Kolar district in the state of Karnataka and neighbouring Krishnagiri district in the state of Tamil Nadu, consumed moonshine (illicit liquor) made with camphor and tobacco.
On 16 September, the AQSIQ tests on baby milk powder produced by 109 companies showed 69 batches from 22 companies to be melamine-contaminated; the State Council attempted to reassure that formula produced by most companies in China was safe.
An investigation found that most of the victims had bought a cheap liquor from hole in the wall stores in bid to evade the tax rates on Malaysian alcohols that range from 150–560%.
It is consumed in many district of Himachal Pradesh, such as kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti, Chamba, Kullu and Kangra.
However, other substances such as cocaine have also been laced with opioids that resulted in illness and death.
The 2001 publication of Judith Miller's Germs: Biological Weapons and America's Secret War, which contained an analysis and detailed description of the events, also brought discussion of the incident back into the news.
Since May 2018, methanol has been banned in the European Union for use in windscreen washing or defrosting due to the risk of human consumption.
Ehrlich reagent can only detect drugs with an indole moiety, but this is useful because drugs from the NBOMe class do not have an indole and are often sold as LSD which does.
Arak or araq (Arabic: عرق, Hebrew: ערק), is a distilled Levantine spirit of the anise drinks family.
The 2018 Malaysia methanol poisonings occurred in September 2018 in three states and two federal territories in Malaysia comprising Selangor (64 cases), Kuala Lumpur and Putrajaya (18 cases), Perak (13 cases) and Negeri Sembilan (3 cases).
Maiden Pharmaceuticals produced the cough syrup in question, and it has been implicated in child deaths in Gambia.
History and etymology The substance first appeared in America and was thought to be a unique chemical compound before being identified as a mixture of drugs.
In June 2008, the company acquired the yoghurt and dairy dessert business of Nestlé Australia, which it on-sold to Parmalat Australia in December 2015.
The first four Unabomber crimes happened in Chicago and its suburbs from 1978 to 1980, and Kaczynski's parents had a suburban Chicago home in Lombard, Illinois, in 1982, where he stayed occasionally.
The official descriptions of the ACS levels of purity is documented in the Reagent Chemicals publication, issued by the ACS.
The crisis escalated in February 2013 when some Findus products were found to contain as much as 100% horsemeat instead of beef.
The "fridge test" for adulteration was evaluated by scientists at the Olive Center at the University of California, Davis.
charcoal), to interfere with color-based drug tests (mixing thiocyanates and iron salts or cobalt salts forms deep red complexes in solution), to make the mixture undetectable by drug sniffing dogs (activated carbon may sufficiently absorb trace odors).
In Israel During the age of austerity in the early years of the State of Israel, arak (in Hebrew, ערק) was locally made, with few imports.
In 2012, a study in India across 29 states and union territories found that milk was adulterated with detergent, fat, and even urea, and diluted with water.
Reagent testing is one of the processes used to identify substances contained within a pill, usually illicit substances.
Causes of this damage are associated with iodine, phosphorus and other toxic substances that are present after synthesis.
While at the time of the scare the company's market share collapsed from 35 percent to 8 percent, it rebounded in less than a year, a move credited to the company's prompt and aggressive reaction.
Research According to researchers, food adulteration has existed from historical times and is still prevalent.
Desi daru (Hindi: देसी दारू), also known as country liquor or Indian-made Indian liquor (IMIL), is a local category of liquor produced on the Indian subcontinent, as opposed to Indian-made foreign liquor.
Hooch is brewed from industrial alcohol, by separating methyl alcohol and adding water – a risky process which can leave traces of poisonous methyl alcohol.
Indian authorities started investigating an April 2023 allegation that a pharmaceutical regulator in Haryana state, who holds a senior position in the state health department, accepted a bribe and switched samples of contaminated cough syrup before the state government laboratory tested them.
These incidents are often – but not exclusively – associated with methanol poisoning of the victims, where toxic methyl alcohol is used as a cheap way, as compared to the proper use of ethanol, to increase the alcohol content of moonshine.
Several governments, including Australia, updated their travel advisories, warning citizens about the dangers of unregulated local alcohol in Southeast Asia.
Greenpeace campaign director Chris Harris said only 4 per cent of palm oil came from sustainable sites.
Shortly after that, 2-hydroxyethoxyacetaldehyde (C4H8O3) is metabolized by the enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) to the weak acid 2-hydroxyethoxyacetic acid (HEAA), chemical formula C4H8O4.
From 2015, however, several upscale bars have developed their own versions, and the drink has also been introduced to the United States.
Twenty-two-year-old Viktoria Nikolaeva (Russian: Виктория Николаева), who was being treated in the intensive station of Akdeniz University's hospital in Antalya, died due to brain damage in the evening hours of June 20, 2011.
This included a surge of victims within a 72-hour period in January 2025, during which at least 30 people died.
While the medical establishment ditched ptomaine theory by the 1930s, it remained in the public consciousness until the late 1960s and early 1970s.
Similarly, a WHO investigation attributed dozens of child deaths in the Gambia to four Indian cough syrups contaminated with ethylene glycol or diethylene glycol.
This is a list of foodborne illness outbreaks by death toll, caused by infectious disease, heavy metals, chemical contamination, or from natural toxins, such as those found in poisonous mushrooms.
Pharmaceutical company Baxter International subcontracted the creation of precursor chemicals of heparin to Scientific Protein Laboratories, an American company with production facilities located in China.
Tharra (Hindi: ठर्रा, Urdu: ٹھرا) is a type of Desi daru which is locally, and often illegally, brewed alcoholic drink in the Indian subcontinent, mainly India and Pakistan.
The rise in bootleg alcohol production has been attributed to increased government taxes on legal alcoholic beverages.
Following the tragedy, the police conducted more than 8,000 raids in the state, booking 6,713 persons for violation of prohibition On 14 July, the police announced that Vinod Chauhan, the prime accused had managed to slip out of Gujarat.
It is usually made during the summer season, as the weather and environment help the fermentation process.
The L-tryptophan was produced by a bacterium grown in open vats in a Showa Denko fertilizer factory.
The WHO has since then tried to re-create the poisoning in laboratory animals with less-than-satisfactory results.
The 2008 Chinese milk scandal is among the few known events about the harm caused by the addition of melamine in milk.
For example, the presence of foreign elements may have important effects on the mechanical and magnetic properties of metal alloys.
Financial results For the six months ended 30 June 2012, Yashili group's revenue amounted to RMB1,689.1 million, a 17.0% increase compared to the same period of the preceding year.
In 2012 the UK's leading dairy farmer co-operative Milk Link joined Arla Foods Amba, to become one of the largest and most successful European Dairy Co-operatives.
Diagnosis of this illness is usually based on clinical findings and no single laboratory test is available.
In 2021, 860 kg (1,900 lb) of black cocaine disguised as charcoal, in 30 sacks among 1,364 sacks of charcoal, were seized in Spain, one of the biggest cocaine seizures recorded in Castilla y León.
The Gujarat alcohol poisonings occurred in July 2009 in Gujarat, resulting in the death of 136 people from consumption of bootleg liquor.
Results of the scandal Although there were no official findings of large-scale trouble with meat supplies, the newspapers stirred up public opinion on the subject.
Marihuana prensada or cannabis prensado (pressed cannabis or marijuana), also known as ladrillo (brick weed) or, colloquially, paragua or paraguayo is a compressed cannabis cut into blocks that facilitate transport.
Pure beryl will appear colorless but this rarely occurs and the presence of trace elements change its color.
Galician journalist and writer Fernando Rodríguez Méndez investigated this case for five years and published several books that have returned this story of money, poison and death to the present.
Mostly, the poisoning incidents have been reported from rural areas, where denatured spirit's use has proliferated due to illegal manufacturing facilities.
Use Although cannabis can be found in foods, beverages, cosmetics, etc., marihuana prensada is exclusively smoked in the form of a cigarette (joint).
Reported fipronil concentrations The maximum residue limit (MRL) of fipronil in eggs is set at the detection limit of 0.005 mg/kg within the European Union, as is outlined in Regulation (EC) No 396/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 February 2005.
Semiconductors that are p-doped contains a small amount of elements that have less valence electrons then the other elements in the crystal.
Clandestine and fraudulent production Clandestine liquor production is still prevalent, but it is seen more as a tradition than a business as it would be difficult to compete with the nationally produced guaro.
An invoice dated September 25, 1984, from the American Type Culture Collection of microbes was discovered, showing an order received by the Rajneeshpuram laboratory for Salmonella typhi, the bacterium that causes the life-threatening illness typhoid fever.
Department of Agriculture announced that the meat of 345 hogs that had eaten contaminated feed had entered the U.S.
International criticisms Since 1992, an average of around 1,000 people have died from drinking alcohol illegally, which has caused much international concern.
It also mentions in passing the product makes use of "NPN" which is an acronym for non-protein nitrogen.
The court of inquiry In the months following the 1898 Spanish–American War, during a court of inquiry held to investigate problems in the U.S.
Wu Heping, secretary general of the Heilongjiang Dairy Industry Association noted that between 75% and 90% of raw milk in some provinces had failed to reach the old protein level standard (in place since 1986) in 2007 and 2008.
The Czech government established a central emergency response council and banned the sale of liquors with more than 30% alcohol by volume at food stands on 12 September 2012.
Similar incidents A similar incident, the Pärnu methanol poisoning incident, occurred in Pärnu county, Estonia, in September 2001, when 68 people died and 43 were left disabled after contents of stolen methanol canisters were used in production of bootleg liquor.
Since yellow fever frequently causes symptoms similar to bacterial food poisoning (fever, vomiting, severe or bloody diarrhea), little connection was made at the time between illness and consumption of the Chicago beef.
Alger Francis Buzzacott, army scout and writer who testified in support of Miles Further reading Laurie Winn Carlson, Cattle: An Informal Social History, Ivan R.
Most of those who died were economically and socially backward Dalits from Kallakurichi, and nearby villages.
The colonial government had banned the sale of local liquor (Pelele) and so the women carrying milk also carried Pelele disguised as milk.
Background In April 2016, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar enacted legislation banning the sale and consumption of alcohol in the Bihar.
In December 2023, Yili Group established an internal militia unit reporting to the People's Liberation Army within the company.
Zone refining, another purification method, is an economically important method for the purification of semiconductors.
Since over-sulfated chondroitin is not a naturally occurring molecule, costs a fraction of true heparin starting material, and mimics the in-vitro properties of heparin, the counterfeit was almost certainly intentional as opposed to an accidental lapse in manufacturing.
Local economy It is often consumed by poor or landless tillers, typically distilled with the connivance of officials and police officers, generating large profits.
The drinks contained methanol, a toxic chemical that, when ingested, can lead to blindness or death from nervous system paralysis.
This approach is intended to accommodate the use of geographical indications in handicrafts like embroidery or ceramics.
It is consumed on festive occasions, religious festivals and other social gatherings.Jhol یا Jhol (هندی: Jhol) یک نوشیدنی الکلی است که در ایالت هیماچال پرادش در شمال هند تولید می شود .
In the United States and other countries, the use of denatured alcohol unsuitable for beverages avoids excise taxes on alcohol.
Cases of mass methanol poisoning have occurred in Thailand from the production and distribution of ya dong.
Arrests By 22 June 2015, seven people had been arrested, and eight police officers were suspended for negligence, in connection with the incident.
Reactions After the incident, there had been demands for repealing the prohibition of alcohol in the state.
The water used to make the drink in illegal breweries is also often below acceptable health standards and sometimes contaminated with sewage.
Health concerns The brew is often doctored in unsafe and poisonous ways, and its regular abuse frequently has resulted in alcohol poisoning related hospitalizations, blindness, and death.
In the month of May there were large gatherings in the prefectures and sub-prefectures of Languedoc-Roussillon.
The term desi daru usually refers to legal alcohol while other types of country liquor (arrack and palm toddy) may be categorised as moonshine alcohol.
Considering this is a grape-growing country, the reader will be astonished to learn that little wine is comparatively made in it, and of that little, not much is used by the natives, for here let me tell the reader that the Syrians are by no means partial to liquors of any kind.
The accused was convicted in the lower court and upon appeal, Odisha High Court confirmed the life sentence awarded to Belu alias Surendra Das, the prime accused in the 1992 Cuttack hooch tragedy.
These stereotypes create a sense that nothing can be done to help a paco addict and thus stand in the way of rehabilitation programs.
Its popularity has soared in the last decade, in part due to its strongly addictive effect and lower price than other common drugs.
In fact, one might expect a refined seed oil with very high oleic acid content (such as high oleic sunflower oil) to be more likely to solidify in the refrigerator, based on their fatty acid composition and lack of minor compounds.
There is evidence that Xuzhou Anying, despite being a food ingredient supplier, has sought out large quantities of melamine in the past.
It is one of China's leading dairy companies and is listed as an A share company on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE).
It is an essential part of numerous religious and social ceremonies; Burutu (Ijaw) priests pour it onto the ground as offerings to contact their gods, while fathers of Nigerian brides use it as a libation by which they provide their official blessing to a wedding.
Consumption of large doses of cocaine can cause violent outbursts, especially by those with preexisting psychosis.
Clinical descriptions generally divides the illness into three stages: an acute phase lasting approximately two months, followed by an intermediate phase of about two to three months and a chronic phase.
129) such that no vegetable substance resembling coffee was permitted on the premises of licensed coffee dealers.
In the mystery novel The Madness of Crowds (2021), 17th book of the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series, one of the characters, Haniya Daoud, from Sudan, describes how brown-brown was used on child soldiers.
Ya dong (Thai: ยาดอง 'infused medicine'), or more specifically ya dong lao (ยาดองเหล้า 'spirit-infused medicine'), is a form of Thai herbal alcoholic drink, consisting of medicinal herbs infused in a spirit, typically lao khao.
Official response The Government of West Bengal paid $4,000 to the family of each victim and arrested seven people for distributing the liquor.
He had some psychiatric patients that claimed they only smoked pot but their drug tests were positive for methamphetamine use.
Chairman of the Federation Council Valentina Matviyenko publicly supported additional regulations on alcohol-containing liquids, and Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Khloponin proposed accomplishing something similar by requiring pharmaceutical prescriptions.
Health concerns According to a study done in Pakistan, homemade liquor Tharra contain many impurities and is often injurious to health.
It is popular in Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama, although in many places the word "guaro" can refer to almost any liquor.
Lotoko, also known by the slang term pétrole, is a home-distilled alcoholic drink or moonshine in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Naresh Kumar Goyal, the founder of Maiden Pharmaceuticals, previously denied any wrongdoing in the syrup production.
What began as a local alert revealed a global problem in more than 30 countries and involving more than thirty brands.
The Poisoner's Handbook: Murder and the Birth of Forensic Medicine in Jazz Age New York (Penguin Press, February 18, 2010) Burns, Eric.
Two hundred seventy-six people were admitted in various hospitals with nearly 100 of them in intensive care units.
Outbreaks of methanol poisoning occur every year with thousands of people affected, mostly in Asia with people drinking bootlegged liquor or homemade alcohol.
On 16 October, Ting Hsin announced that it will leave Taiwan's oil market and donate NT$3 billion toward food safety under the supervision of Ruentex Financial Group (潤泰集團) Chairman Samuel Yin.
Synthesis It is produced by the diesterification of sebacic acid (decanedioic acid) with 4-hydroxy-TEMPO.
Czech Republic The 2012 Czech Republic methanol poisonings occurred in September 2012 in the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia.
Social issues Country liquor, being the cheapest alcohol in India, is the mainstay alcoholic beverage for the rural population and urban poor.
More than 200 people died after drinking illegally brewed poisonous liquor; another 600 people were hospitalised.
Attempts to revive the pure beer movement were nullified by the commission's report, and by the fact that arsenic was present in malted barley as well as sugar.
All six—the Januses, Mary McFarland (31), Paula Prince (35), and Mary Reiner (27)—would ultimately die from consuming the pills.
The State Council also stated that businesses that use recycled oil would be forced to close temporarily or lose their business license while peddlers who sell the oil could be criminally prosecuted.
Public health and medical concerns In 2024, it was detected as an adulterant in illicitly sold fentanyl in the United States.
The product shared its name with a popular hawthorn-flavored tincture, and vodka historian Alexander Nikishin told the magazine Vice that was a deliberate choice to obfuscate its intended purpose: The name Boyaryshnik is used to hide the nature of this product.
Threats A series of letters and emails were sent to Tesco, threatening to contaminate baby food with salmonella, white powder and knives.
Food contaminant detection methods The conventional food contaminant test methods may be limited by complicated/tedious sample preparing procedure, long testing time, sumptuous instrument, and professional operator.
Six other accomplices were given brief custodial sentences; about a dozen were sentenced to time served.
"It looked well, but had an odor similar to that of a dead human body after being injected with formaldehyde, and it tasted when first cooked like decomposed boric acid ..." As for the canned product, Miles reported, during the war he had received many complaints about its poor quality.
Chang'aa is usually much cheaper and stronger than other alcoholic drinks, making it the beverage of choice for many.
Notorious bootlegger Marimuthu (who later became a councillor of BBMP) and Ameer Jan were running the operation.
Kumi Kumi is so named for its cheap price, KSh.10/= for a mug, which in 2006 comes to roughly US$0.15.
Of these, 56 were in urban Bangalore, 27 were in rural Bangalore, 32 were in Kolar, and 41 were in Krishnagiri.
Background Illegal home-brewed liquor is consumed in various parts of India due to its cheaper price compared to the commercially available brands.
The owner of Massengill, when pressed to admit some measure of culpability, infamously answered, "We have been supplying a legitimate professional demand and not once could have foreseen the unlooked-for results.
Alternatives include sugar-cane juice—extracted and fermented in the same way—and boiled mashes of cassava or millet, chosen according to local crop patterns.
Coca paste (paco, basuco, oxi, pasta) is a crude extract of the coca leaf which contains 40% to 91% cocaine freebase along with companion coca alkaloids and varying quantities of benzoic acid, methanol, kerosene, and other extraction chemicals.
Afterward, members of Sheela's team spread Salmonella on produce in grocery stores and on doorknobs and urinal handles in the county courthouse, but these actions did not produce the desired effects.
Two other Russian citizens, Maria Shalyapina (Russian: Мария Шаляпина), born in 1983, and Aigul Zalayeva (Russian: Айгуль Залаева), born in 1991, died in the following days at the hospital of Akdeniz University in Antalya.
Ma was criticized by the opposition Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) for his handling of the scandal.
The Dutch government later gave a donation to victims’ families, framing it as a humanitarian gesture rather than an admission of state liability.
The Massengill Company paid a minimum fine under provisions of the 1906 Pure Food and Drugs Act, which prohibited labeling the preparation an "elixir" if it contained no ethanol.
The milk drawn from the cows was routinely adulterated with water, rotten eggs, flour, burnt sugar, and other adulterants with the finished product then marketed falsely as "pure country milk" or "Orange County Milk".
As a result, Marion Biotech, was suspended from Pharmexcil, an Indian government-linked trade group.
On December 30, 2022, the Indian government's Drug Standards Control Center and Uttar Pradesh state government's Drug Control Department inspected Marion Biotech's manufacturing plant in Noida, Uttar Pradesh.
Strictly speaking, a material's level of purity can only be stated as being more or less pure than some other material.
According to a World Health Organisation (WHO) report, which revealed that more than 11% of Indians were binge drinkers.
Reprocessing of used cooking oil is often very rudimentary; techniques include filtration, boiling, refining, and the removal of some adulterants.
Poor people prefer illicit liquor as it is cheaper than Indian Made Foreign Liquor, which was the main reason for the incident.
For the sweets produced in Bradford, the confectioner was supposed to purchase powdered gypsum, but a mistake at the wholesale chemist meant arsenic was purchased instead.
Methamphetamine can be made from ephedrine, one of the naturally occurring alkaloids in ephedra (Ephedra sinica).
Reagent testers might show the colour of the desired substance while not showing a different colour for a more dangerous additive.
Over the course of several days, 38 people in the Czech Republic and four people in Poland died as a result of methanol poisoning and many others were hospitalised.
Legacy Sections 3, 4, 6, 7 8, 10, 2 and 5 of the act were continued until the end of the next session of parliament after 5 years from the expiration of those enactments by section 8 of the Continuance of Laws Act 1722 (9 Geo.
Second, if the poisonous or deleterious substance is unavoidable and is within an established tolerance, regulatory limit, or action level, the food will not be deemed to be adulterated.
Within a few months, the TOCP-adulterated Jake was identified as the cause of the paralysis, and the contaminated Jake was recovered.
Black tar heroin, also known as black dragon, is a form of heroin that is sticky like tar or hard like coal.
Investigation The scandal unraveled on 27 July 1981 after a food inspector in San Diego, California, became suspicious of three blocks of frozen Australian boneless beef that were "darker and stringier" than beef should be.
Led by police vice president Václav Kučera, a special police team called Metyl coordinated the investigations.
History AQSIQ was formed as the successor government body to the State Bureau of Quality and Technological Supervision (SBQTS).
Maistrišin was convicted and sentenced to five years of imprisonment, and Sobolev was sentenced to 2.5 years of imprisonment.
Despite its poor quality, its use is widely spread among the lower classes throughout South America.
It said leading government officials in Shijiazhuang city had failed to report the contamination to provincial and state authorities (until 9 September) in violation of rules on reporting major incidents involving food safety.
coli O157:H7 is the only pathogen that is considered an adulterant when present in raw meat or poultry products.
In 1965, a report published by the Planning Commission, Government of India, noted that there was a ban on the sale of Lugdi, but it was being sold despite the ban.
On December 14, victims admitted to hospitals complained about stomach pain, diarrhea and breathing problems.
Fosun's holding has since decreased; as of January 2013 Fosun owned 2.98% of Yashili International Holdings although it still has two directors on the board.
Rimmington later made an analysis of the lozenges which showed each contained between eleven and sixteen grains (710 and 1,040 mg).
The whole act was repealed for England and Wales by section 101(1) of, and the first part of the fourth schedule to, the Food and Drugs Act 1938 (1 & 2 Geo.
Mickey Mouse was seen as a symbol of foreign countries, and so the packaging was redesigned to feature a naturalistically-drawn white rabbit and an artist's paint palette, with Chinese and English hand-lettering in a color scheme of red, blue and black against a white background.
Dotse about his life under British colonial rule: "Our contention was that the drink the white man brought is the same as ours.
The greater affinity of these substances for the μ-opioid receptor impedes the activity of naloxone, which is an antagonist at the receptor.
On the same day, three people were arrested in connection with the case and were incarcerated at Cuddalore Central Prison.
In 1904 and 1905, again because of the weather, harvests were abundant throughout continental Europe.
Since the civil war, however, the companies' profits and the price of arak have declined, with their combined market share falling to under half.
Conviction Nigel Wright was convicted of three charges of blackmail, two charges of contaminating food and a further charge of blackmail for demanding £150,000 worth of bitcoin from a driver with whom he had a road-rage altercation.
Stalin announced an ex gratia of ₹1 million (US$12,000) for the family of the deceased and ₹50,000 (US$590) for the injured.
Federal agencies often will coordinate with state or local authorities to remove unsafe food from the market as quickly as possible.
The Dutch owners of ChickFriend were arrested during a large scale operation conducted by Dutch law enforcement agencies on 10 August.
He was procuring various types of alcohol and spirits from Punjab and Delhi and this time supplied the three drums of methanol, which were used to make the spurious methanol-based alcohol.
Under the new law, chang'aa must be manufactured, distributed and sold in glass bottles, and retailers must display health warning signs.
The All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Rishikesh, Uttarakhand, received about 93 patients of methanol poisoning over a four-day period.
Official count of victims is 51 dead and 9 blind, but estimates of number of victims vary between 1,000 and 5,000 dead.
Availability of cheap spurious alcohol (known as hooch) is a problem around the Tannery Road area of the Bangalore Cantonment, with many dwellers getting addicted.
Investigations Because the use of fipronil is illegal in the production of food for human consumption in Europe, a criminal investigation was initiated.
Waragi (pronounced [ˈwaɾaɡi], also known as kasese) is a generic term in Uganda for domestic distilled beverages.
These theories often claim that the USAF in Torrejón de Ardoz was involved in the origin of the epidemic.
Enforcement of controls on precursor chemicals General The Multilateral Chemical Reporting Initiative encourages governments to exchange information on a voluntary basis in order to monitor international chemical shipments.
Vang Vieng is a rural town in northern Laos known for excessive drinking, the easy availability of drugs, and river tubing.
Accordingly, the European Union sets extremely stringent limits for dioxin and dioxin like PCBs in food, set just above the usual background levels found in various food categories e.g.
In October 2019, twenty-two people were injured in Chon Buri province, five of whom died, from a contaminated batch of ya dong.
Śarāb (Hindi शराब and Urdu شراب) is another Arabic-derived equivalent and is used in some areas with somewhat less frequency.
List of heads Li Changjiang (April 2001 – September 2008) Wang Yong (September 2008 – August 2010) Zhi Shuping (August 2010 – March 2018) Hou Jianguo served as party secretary from May 2017 to March 2018.
Incident According to police, relatives of those who were killed claimed that the victims died due to the consumption of poisonous liquor in the Doila and Yadu Mot villages of the Saran district.
The Fabrica Nacional de Licores (National Liquor Factory) was founded for this reason, and since 1980 produces the only legal brand, Cacique Guaro.
The situation becomes more serious because it is hard to distinguish reprocessed gutter oil from legitimate oil.
Investigation Three First Information Report (FIR)s were lodged in the police stations of Barwala and Ranpur in Botad district against 20 people under multiple sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Gujarat Prohibition Act.
The barcodes consist of magnetically recoverable silica particles containing synthetic DNA sequences, which are added to the oil in a very small amount (down to 1 ppb) and can be retrieved at any time for authenticity test by PCR/sequencing.
Local NGOs have expressed concern as to its health effects in the communities of Kinshasa, where it costs 200 to 300 FC, compared to 600 FC for commercially brewed beers.
See also Black cocaine References External links National Drug Threat Assessment 2005, National Drug Intelligence Center.
11) was an act of the Parliament of Great Britain concerning the adulteration of coffee, which made it illegal to debase coffee.
Process Waragi is typically made from fermented plant materials such as banana, cassava, millet and sugar cane.
Its composition is tightly defined by government regulations in countries that tax alcoholic beverages.
The Veterinary Corps' founding on June 3, 1916, was partially sparked due to the medical incompetence displayed in the beef scandal.
Denatured alcohol has no advantages for any purpose over normal ethanol; it is a public policy compromise.
Growing attention to the poor and unsanitary conditions of city dairies emerged notably in the 1840s, with the publication of Robert M.
The victims were supposed to get compensation, but due to bankruptcies they did not receive the money.
It was announced that "dioxins & dioxin like PCBs", a group of highly toxic synthetic halogenated organic compounds, had been discovered in pork at levels between 80 and 200 times the EU's recommended safety limits.
Pointing out that Bihar is a state where alcohol prohibition has been in place since 2016, the Chief Minister asked people to be more cautious in this regard.
The factory was staffed with a group of 26 blenders who formed the Association of Uganda Distillers and Vitners, which was headed by Joel Sentamu.
In February 2019, nearly 100 people died after drinking contaminated alcohol in two neighboring states of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand in northern India.
That company will be a wholly owned subsidiary of Yashili's New Zealand subsidiary Yashili International Holdings Ltd, which will establish and operate the New Zealand facility.
Although the White Rabbit brand already had some history, its popularity worldwide has grown with the economy of China.
22 October: Hong Kong scientists find excessive levels of melamine in a brand of mainland eggs; S Korea finds melamine in Chinese powdered eggs 23 October: Six more people are arrested in connection with the tainted milk scandal.
Levamisole-induced necrosis syndrome Levamisole-induced necrosis syndrome (LINES) is a complication characterized by necrosis resulting from exposure to levamisole, a medication with immunomodulatory properties.
Folin's—Mandelin Marquis—Simon's Custom reagents See also Counterfeit medications Drug checking Harm reduction == References ==
The people arrested are believed to have transported the liquor to workers and include two women: Mamta Rathod (aged 30) and Agnes Gracy alias Aunty (aged 50).
The following represent examples of different types of contamination based on these and other variances.
In a statement the FSAI recommended "that cattle which are locked down from these 21 farms should now be slaughtered and not allowed enter the food chain".
Silvercrest, a subsidiary of ABP Foods has claimed that there is no risk to the public upon eating the foreign meat.
Harrison Reed and William Tucker, shielded the dairies and turned the hearings into one-sided exercises designed to make dairy critics and established health authorities look ridiculous, even going to the extent of arguing that swill milk was as good or better for children than regular milk.
Congress leaders urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to speak up on the toxic liquor deaths and meet the bereaved families.
Even though the pharmacist published warnings, more people were poisoned, and altogether 16 people died on Canary Islands of Lanzarote, La Gomera and Tenerife.
The 2008 Karnataka-Tamil Nadu alcohol poisonings was an incident in the southern Indian states of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu in May 2008 in which 180 people reportedly died after consuming illicit liquor.
Types of contamination Within the sciences, the word "contamination" can take on a variety of subtle differences in meaning, whether the contaminant is a solid or a liquid, as well as the variance of environment the contaminant is found to be in.
63), which forms the basis of the modern legislation and a system of public analyst who test for adulteration.
A paltry sum of INR1000 (equivalent to INR20,400 in 2023; close to US$200) per family was paid to the victims by the Gundu Rao government.
In 1958, it was renamed as "the Cooperative Dairy Farm of Hohhot Huimin District", which was the predecessor of the Yili Group.
They had not yet determined if, beyond a small amount in California, any contaminated meat had reached the human food supply.
Ireland Two men were killed in a methanol poisoning incident near to Burtonport, County Donegal, Ireland in 2014 after drinking what was claimed to be poitín (an Irish moonshine made from potatoes).
It was reported in the media that five of the children in the region recovered, and the condition of four was stable.
Burning eyes, dizziness and respiratory problems being most frequently reported." In some areas, 80 percent of the children of the indigenous community fell sick with skin rashes, fever, diarrhoea and eye infections.
Reports indicate that the composition of brown-brown varied, sometimes including cocaine, heroin, or other stimulants, often adulterated or of low purity.
Literature In the novel Beasts of No Nation (2005) and its 2015 film adaptation, brown-brown is used by many of the child soldiers and the Commandant.
The number of users in Russia was estimated to have reached around one million at the peak of the drug's popularity.
Of the 37% of beef products tested positive for horse DNA, Tesco's Everyday Value Beef Burgers tested at 29.1%.
2014: Gutter oil incident 2014 Taiwanese Adulterated Oil Scandal In September 2014, reports of adulteration of cooking oil with recycled waste oil and animal feed began to surface.
At least 160 people were killed since the beginning of 2025, including over 17 people from Uzbekistan.
Local health officials reported that infants and toddlers with common cold symptoms rapidly developed severe dehydration and acute kidney injury after receiving a cough syrup.
However, while codeine-containing drugs generally have been prescription products in Europe, in Russia they were sold freely over the counter until June 2012.
The Mumbai alcohol poisonings occurred in June 2015, when at least 102 people died after drinking contaminated alcohol in the Laxmi Nagar slum in Malad, located in Mumbai, India.
Technical grade is suitable for industrial applications, but is not acceptable for food or drug use.
found that French rapeseed oil was imported to Spain after denaturation with 2% aniline, allegedly for industrial use.
In 2002, Morgan Stanley, CDH Investments and China Capital Partners signed agreement with Mengniu to invest US$26m for a total share of 32% in the company.
Impacts on agriculture Nitrogen is a fundamental nutrient in agriculture, playing a crucial role in plant growth and development.
Wang, who had leaped off a building in a suicide attempt, offered his apology and remorse: "When I think of the children who were harmed...
Oltinoy Esanova, the deputy head of the Syrdarya Region health department, reported that the drug had a negative effect on seven children.
When recent Governor of Ceylon Viscount Torrington presented a petition in 1854 to similar, reinforcing effect, namely to counter the use of chicory for mixing—as coffee was by 1854 subject to a duty of 75% on top of the London market price—he stressed another piece of legislation had strong effect.
Black cocaine (Spanish: coca negra) is a mixture of regular cocaine base or cocaine hydrochloride with various other substances.
On 18 March 2019, the group signed an agreement to acquire 100% equity of New Zealand dairy co-operative Westland Milk Products – which was ratified by Westland shareholders on 4 July.
Since the result is usually black, it is generally smuggled as toner, fingerprint powder, fertilizer, pigment, metal moldings, or charcoal.
"Before melamine, the dealers added rice porridge or starch into the milk to artificially boost the protein count, but that method was easily tested as fake, so they switched to melamine,” said Zhao Huibin, a dairy farmer near Shijiazhuang.
Gutter oil in other countries Gutter oil has also been used outside of China as well, albeit not for human consumption.
The coca paste is smoked in tobacco or cannabis cigarettes and use has become widespread in several Latin American countries.
While a total of 63 trace contaminants were eventually identified, only six of them could be associated with EMS.
Deforestation allegations In August 2009, Greenpeace claimed that Fonterra was implicated in the destruction of Indonesian and Malaysian rainforests, causing deaths of orangutans and increased global greenhouse gas emissions.
Etymology The term desi, a Hindustani term derived from Sanskrit desh (country or region), which is generally an endonym for the compatriot or local is often applied to food or drink that is considered traditional or native.
Gambian families have decided to sue Indian manufacturers after the cough syrup deaths, which is a result of toxic contamination.
One such campaign advertised "special milk for China's astronauts" after the successful launches of the Shenzhou 5 and Shenzhou 6 spacecraft (in fact the company sponsors the Chinese space program), and Mengniu also sponsored the popular SuperGirl contest.
However, 3,000 animals from these herds have been slaughtered and have already entered the food chain since September.
Organisers of the group declared that they had come under pressure from officials to not get involved in the issue.
Recreational Desomorphine abuse in Russia attracted international attention in 2010 due to an increase in clandestine production, presumably due to its relatively simple synthesis from codeine available over the counter.
The FDA acknowledges receiving more than 15,000 complaints from consumers related to the recall, but will not comment on the possible number of pet sicknesses or deaths.
Roosevelt grieving the death of her daughter: "The first time I ever had occasion to call in a doctor for [Joan] and she was given Elixir of Sulfanilamide.
It is the biggest producer of eggs in China, exporting to Hong Kong, Macau, Japan, and Southeast Asia.
Appleton, working closely with the arsenic, fell ill and suffered from fits of vomiting; Neal, who occasionally tasted the lozenges to check the quality, also began vomiting.
By 2025, Arla expects to increase annual production in Bahrain to more than 100,000 tons under its Puck, Arla, Dano, Kraft and Private Label brands.
Maistrišin proceeded to sell the stolen methanol to Aleksandr Sobolev, a known smuggler, for 76,000 krooni, claiming that it was technical spirit (i.e., laboratory-grade neutral spirit).
This decline was greater in areas most affected, leading the Royal Commission to conclude that the epidemic was the cause.
In the summer of 1983, Arnold, mistaking a random passerby named John Stanisha for Sinclair, shot and killed the man, a computer consultant and father of three, who was leaving a bar with multiple friends.
Of the 63 trace contaminants, only the two AAA compounds displayed a statistically significant association with cases of EMS (with a p-value of 0.0014).
One day, a white policeman who had been tipped off about the underground trafficking of Pelele stopped the women milk sellers on the road to inspect their pots of "milk".
Anyone making or selling adulterated chang'aa risks penalties of five million shillings, five years in jail, or both.
Illegal manufacture and sale of toxic alcohol is punishable by death under Bombay Prohibition (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2009.
New designs are introduced to reflect new technology or cultural trends, and designs are retired if they become outdated (such as a koala using a pager).
See also Food safety in China Chinese protein export contamination References External links Sanlu (Archive)
When discussing the application of nitrogen in agriculture, it is essential to consider the sources of nitrogen used.
The state government introduced a bill in the state Assembly to amend the Prohibition Law, calling for penal action up to the death penalty for those convicted in spurious liquor cases.
General Nelson Miles called the adulterated meat "embalmed beef," and the scandal also became alternatively known as the Embalmed Beef scandal.
According to the latest figures from India’s National Crime Records Bureau, 1,522 people died of drinking spurious liquor in 2015 — nearly all of them men.
In his testimony before the court of inquiry, General Miles referred to the refrigerated product as "embalmed beef," and provided the court with a letter from an Army medical officer describing the product.
Koala's March (Japanese: コアラのマーチ, romanized: Koara no Māchi) is a bite-sized cookie snack with a sweet filling.
Origin of name The spirit's name, Chang'aa, means literally "kill me quick." The name Chang'aa was adopted in the 1950s when Oyuga Muganda, an AP in Kisumu, once narrated the story in the presence of Tom Omuga how Pelele (aka Woraj) got its name as Chang'aa.
While the testing process does show some particular substances are present, it may not show a harmful substance that is also present and unaccounted for by the testing process.
Dangers and treatment As with other illicit narcotics, gray death carries a higher risk of serious adverse effects than prescribed opioids due to the unknown and inconsistent composition of the product.
Beginning on 9 September, hundreds of people consumed the resulting product and suffered methanol poisoning.
References Sources Tiiu Põld: Eesti kohtueksperdid ja nende lahendatud lood (Estonian court experts and their stories resolved) (ISBN 978-9985-9918-1-7), Tartu 2008, pages 170–184
The initial recall comprises sixty million units of cuts and gravy-style food in pouches sold under nearly 100 brand names, including premium brands like Iams and private-label brands sold at nationwide chains such as Wal-Mart, Kroger, and other large retailers.
The Enforcement Directorate conducted raids on Sresan Pharma headquarters in connection with alleged financial irregularities.
Types of adulteration The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India identifies three general types of adulteration: Intentional adulteration: refers to the addition of substances that have similar properties to the food in which it is mixed.
Reaction The Laotian government said it was conducting investigations into the incident and expressed condolences to the families of the victims.
In October 2008, it became embroiled in a scandal involving traces of melamine being found in its eggs.
History The company was founded by Han Wei, currently the vice-chairman of Dalian's Federation of Industry and Commerce.
The scandal decimated Chinese dairy exports, and re-exposed long-standing concerns about food security, corruption, lack of political checks and balances.
Several clauses of the act were continued until the end of the next session of parliament after 1 June 1754 by section 5 of the Continuance of Laws Act 1746 (20 Geo.
As individual lawsuits were filed across the nation, an Ontario, Oregon family filed a class-action lawsuit against Menu Foods, citing emotional damage and economic loss.
The largest single incident of fraudulent marriages, the most massive scheme of wiretapping and bugging, and the largest mass poisoning." Looking back on the incident, Skeels stated, "We lost our innocence over this ...
At the turn of the 20th century, industrialization in the United States led to an increase in adulteration, which inspired some protest.
Other Nigerian epithets include: Udi Ogagan, Agbagba Urhobo, as well OHMS (Our Home Made Stuff), Iced Water, Push Me, I Push You and Craze man in the bottle.
A clear liquid distilled from sugar cane juices, it has a slightly sweeter taste than comparable liquors.
Therefore, they would raise their feet high with the toes flopping downward, which would touch the pavement first followed by their heels.
The manufacturers that exported the syrup to other countries in the current spate of incidents are four Indian manufacturers (Maiden Pharmaceuticals, Marion Biotech, QP Pharmachem, and Synercar), one Chinese manufacturer (Fraken Group) and one Pakistani manufacturer (Pharmix Laboratories).
The incident came to be known on early morning of 26 July, when some of the residents of Rojid village of Barvala taluka and surrounding villages became sick and their condition started deteriorating.
In addition to serious neurodegenerative damage, it can also damage vital organs such as the liver, heart or brain, affecting cognitive function.
A doctor among them is said to have cast realgar into the river, drawing out an aquatic dragon which the boatmen promptly killed.
Heads of corn are cut up and boiled into a mash which is then fermented and distilled using improvised stills made from cut-down oil drums.
It is difficult to determine the effects on the human body because its ingredients vary greatly depending on who makes it.
Cities and agricultural villages' demands are increasing, especially during the Chinese New Year period, when many families provide White Rabbit sweets among other candies for visitors.
The state government imposed a ban on alcohol in 1994; however, the Indian National Congress government that came to power in 1995 lifted prohibition on the ground that it was causing huge losses in revenue.
The pure cocaine base can be recovered from the mixture by extraction (freebase) or acid-base extraction (hydrochloride) using common organic solvents such as methylene chloride or acetone.
At that time, Arla began sponsoring humanitarian causes in the Middle East to foster good public relations with the region.
Several clauses of the act were continued from the expiration of those enactments until the end of the next session of parliament after 29 September 1742 by section 3 of the Continuance of Laws (No.
In 2014, an "invisible oil tag" using artificial, sub-micrometer-sized DNA barcodes was suggested by researchers from ETH Zurich.
Brazil now ranks as the second largest total consumer of cocaine in the world after the United States, per the United States Department of State.
Such adulteration was sometimes deliberately hidden from the population to prevent loss of morale and propaganda reasons.
Milk powder scandal and demise In September 2008, Sanlu came to international attention due to product concerns regarding its infant formula, which was discovered to have been contaminated with melamine, a non-alimentary chemical which causes kidney stones.
A typical recipe calls for 50 to 100 grams of realgar powder to be added to one liter of homemade wine and left to stand at room temperature for several hours.
After ingestion, DEG is absorbed via the gastrointestinal tract and distributed by the bloodstream throughout the body, reaching peak blood concentrations within 30 to 120 minutes.
Litigation Many owners of pets stricken after consuming Menu Foods' product have considered filing lawsuits against the company, but are encountering difficulties with the valuation of the deceased pets.
Bis(2,2,6,6-tetramethyl-4-piperidyl) sebacate (abbreviated BTMPS) is a hindered amine light stabilizer used to protect plastics and coatings such as paint from oxidation caused by sunlight weathering.
The whole act except section 23 was repealed by section 1 of, and the first schedule to, the schedule to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1867 (30 & 31 Vict.
Pharmaceutical pills are sometimes sold as ecstasy, as well as pills that contain no psychoactive chemicals at all.
Poisonous or deleterious substances Generally, if a food contains a poisonous or deleterious substance that may render it injurious to health, it is considered to be adulterated.
The potency of such mixtures (especially if made carelessly) can be far above that of pure heroin, and users frequently overdose due to this.
AQSIQ directly administers provincial Entry-Exit Inspection and Quarantine Bureaus and Bureaus of Quality and Technical Supervision.
When the FDA conducted an inspection of Baxter's Chinese heparin supplier, it found serious deficiencies at the facility, which the FDA detailed in a warning letter.
Vitamin E acetate: Although harmless when used orally, high levels of the substance cause vaping-associated pulmonary injury when inhaled.
The oil, at the firm's insistence, was only ever purchased from "legitimate suppliers" within the Republic of Ireland.
Initially, the recalls were associated with the consumption of mostly wet pet foods made with wheat gluten from a single Chinese company.
Mengniu, whose products tested negative in Hong Kong government tests, was immediately de-listed by supermarket chains after tests showed that contaminated samples had been found on the mainland.
In 2004, 104 people died after drinking contaminated alcohol in the Mumbai neighbourhood of Vikhroli.
Although it is officially banned because of its high alcohol content (over 50%), its production is widespread in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The victims consumed hooch (spurious liquor), that is qualitatively different from the standard alcoholic products.
Powdered food products are particularly vulnerable due to their complicated supply chain and slowly decline in nutritional and quality over time.
Realgar wine or Xionghuang wine (Chinese: 雄黃酒) is a Chinese alcoholic drink that consists of huangjiu ("yellow wine") dosed with powdered realgar (As4S4), a yellow-orange arsenic sulfide mineral.
Methanol poisoning can lead to severe health consequences, including liver damage, blindness, and death.
The first results of an investigation by Belgian police led to the discovery of 6 cubic metres (210 cu ft) of fipronil that Poultry Vision had imported from a chemical manufacturing company in Romania.
Alternative consumer solutions Common cutting agents: Sugar: Brix refractometers are used to determine sugar content.
White Rabbit Creamy Candy was listed among the many milk-based food products made in China that were contaminated with melamine and was recalled from store shelves.
Kumi Kumi (from Swahili 'kumi' for 'ten') is an illegal liquor brewed in Kenya from sorghum, maize or millet.
In 2012, Lotte released an 'emergency food' version of Koala's March biscuits without filling, which were sold in cans and had a shelf life of five years.
Sanlu, whose products sell at half the price of equivalents on the market, recorded the highest levels of contamination among all the samples tested, at 2,563 ppm.
Tian Wenhua (田文華), Chairman and general manager of Sanlu and Chinese Communist Party Committee Secretary was stripped of her party and functional posts during an extraordinary meeting of the Hebei provincial standing committee of the Chinese Communist Party.
Iran In 2013, as a result of methanol mass poisoning in Iran 694 people were hospitalised in the city of Rafsanjan.
Alger that local cattle be purchased in Cuba and Puerto Rico for the Army's use, rather than using preserved or refrigerated meat that had been transported from the United States.
We are focusing on the melamine right now because we believe that, even if melamine is not the causative agent, it is somehow associated with the causative agent, so it serves as a marker".
was used indiscriminately to produce food for human consumption Several meat distributors in Australia were found to have purchased low-grade cuts of meat intended for pet food, which they then repackaged and exported for human consumption.
Farm Source is also the farmer support business unit, with Area Managers, Sustainable Dairying Advisors and Technical Sales Representatives providing on-farm tools and advice for farmers, such as Farm Environment Plans.
Fentanyl test strips were previously considered drug paraphernalia by Tennessee Code Annotated §39-17-402, which defines terms such as controlled substance and drug paraphernalia in Tennessee state law.
Contamination may be recognized or not and may become an issue if the impure chemical causes additional chemical reactions when mixed with other chemicals or mixtures.
Anastasia Lavrenko, one of the young women aboard, told a Russian newspaper that they all had 10-12 glasses of cocktails.
Regulation After being illegal in Kenya for many years, the Kenyan government legalised the traditional home-brewed spirit in 2010, in an effort to take business away from establishments where toxic chemicals are added to the brew to make it stronger.
Methanol is commonly used both because its boiling point is close to that of ethanol and because it is toxic.
The packaging and brand logo have changed over the years: when the candies were first marketed, the white rabbit on the outer packaging was lying down; however, this was changed to an image of the rabbit jumping.
This results in an emulsion whose fine droplets scatter the light and turn the liquid translucent, a phenomenon known as the ouzo effect.
Radioactive substances can appear on surfaces, or within solids, liquids, or gases (including the human body), where their presence is unintended or undesirable, and processes can give rise to their presence in such places.
Background Prevalence of alcohol in Punjab Drinking in India has always existed since the Vedic age.
Most who died were manual laborers and others of low socio-economic class, who bought the liquor at illegal bars called thekas.
Tests conducted by two independent laboratories on behalf of the WHO confirmed the presence of lethal toxins—ethylene glycol and diethylene glycol in the syrup.
The Ministry of Health and Welfare commissioned a group of experts to examine the health implications of consuming the illegal cooking oil.
Food adulteration refers to the practice of secretly adding extra substances, known as adulterants, to food.
soon became putrid," wrote one colonel, "and in many of the cans was found in course of putrefaction when opened." An infantry major declared that "'Nasty' is the only term that will fitly describe its appearance.
Don't Cancel the Cow campaign In 2022, Arla launched an advertising campaign called Don't Cancel the Cow claiming the rise of veganism among young people was the reason the dairy industry's future is uncertain.
Diagnosis is challenging due to symptom overlap and undisclosed drug use, making clinical suspicion and drug history essential for proper management.
It is thought that the eggs became contaminated after the chickens which laid them were fed tainted feed.
Background This incident followed several outbreaks of alcohol poisoning in Istanbul, including one in late 2024, during which 110 people were sickened after consuming tainted alcohol in Istanbul, resulting in at least 48 deaths.
In Chokdi, the locals alleged that the police checked the places where alcohol was brewed twice a day, but just took regular bribes and let the production continue, even though prohibition was in force in Gujarat.
By 2016, the number of people living below the government-established poverty line of 10,000 rubles per month (about $170 at the time) had increased by over three percent over the previous four years.
These include seizing and condemning the product, detaining imported product, enjoining persons from manufacturing or distributing the product, or requesting a recall of the product.
Dealers who do so often (but not always) advertise their wares as being "enhanced" with other substances, and charge more money than they would otherwise, even if they do not say exactly what the lacing agents are.
The secretly added substance will not normally be present in any specification or declared substances due to accident or negligence rather than intent, and also for the introduction of unwanted substances after the product has been made.
This inquiry, starting in 1896 and ending in 1899, had concluded that brewing substitutes were not "deleterious materials" under the Sale of Food and Drugs Act 1875 (38 & 39 Vict.
Since the tragedy, several women's organisations in the state have demanded total prohibition on the sale and manufacture of liquor.
Many poor Nigerian families homebrew the drink as a means of economic subsistence, many of whom sell shots of it on city street corners.
In Uttarakhand, 36 people died in Haridwar district after consuming illegal liquor served to them as part of a mourning ritual.
Toxic chemicals resulting from methamphetamine production may be hoarded or clandestinely dumped, damaging land, water, plant life and wild life, and posing a risk to humans.
In the kilning stage of malting, the barley humidity content is reduced by drying the grain with the hot vapours of a fire, usually fuelled by coke or coal.
10 December: Ministry of Health announces 22 million children examined for kidney problems since September; MoH also stated compensation plan for victims under review.
Furthermore, excessive excretion of nitrogen in urine and feces from animals consuming diets high in NPN can contribute to nitrogen pollution in the environment.
Methamphetamine As of the early 1990s, methamphetamine use was concentrated among young white males in California and nearby states.
To officials The state government suspended seven excise officials and sic police officials before 1 August.
Its use produced diarrhea and dysentery." Still another officer noted that "It was often nauseating and unfit for use.
In October 2022, the World Health Organization issued a medical product alert asking regulators to remove Maiden Pharmaceuticals' products from the market.
The methamphetamine situation also changed in the mid-1990s as Mexican organized crime became a major player in its production and distribution, operating "super-labs" which produced a substantial percentage of the drugs being sold.
The packaging of the deadly medicine falsely claimed that it was produced by a British company called Fraken International (England), but no such company exists in the UK.
In monkeys, desomorphine had 10 times the depressant effect of morphine, developed tolerance less rapidly and less completely, and did not lead to the appearance of abstinence symptoms during withdrawal.
History In Costa Rica, the government nationalized its manufacture in 1851 in an effort to quell the clandestine production of liquor.
It was not resolved until the 1960s, when agricultural change was made possible by the Canal du Bas-Rhône Languedoc(fr), an irrigation canal that brings water from the Rhone to the south of the department of Gard and the east of the department of Héraultin.
Reaction The government of India has announced that it will compensate the families of the victims of the incident with 100,000 rupees, the equivalent of $1,575 in US dollars.
The filling comes in various sweet flavors, such as apple pie, banana, cheesecake, chocolate (with bitter chocolate and white chocolate variants), cocoa and milk, cotton candy, honey, latte (with almond and caramel variants), lemon tart, matcha, pineapple, strawberry, and vanilla.
Street drugs Depressants Heroin Heroin is commonly cut with quinine, caffeine, dimethocaine, lidocaine, procaine, lactose, inositol, dextrose, mannitol, and starch.
Writing systems When a constructed language has multiple writing systems, the following BCP 47 tags can be used to differentiate between them.
Matija Majar, also spelled Majer (7 February 1809 – 31 July 1892), pseudonym Ziljski, was a Carinthian Slovene Roman Catholic priest and political activist, best known as the creator of the idea of a United Slovenia.
In the 2007 animated film Ratatouille, the character chef Auguste Gusteau's first name and last name are verlans of each other.
Blissymbols differ from most of the world's major writing systems in that the characters do not correspond at all to the sounds of any spoken language.
28 October] 1885 – 28 June 1922), was a Russian poet and playwright, a central part of the Russian Futurist movement, but his work and influence stretch far beyond it.
In this vein, Parkinson wrote: Leibniz's views about the systematic character of all knowledge are linked with his plans for a universal symbolism, a Characteristica Universalis.
History According to Tobias Churton in his text The Golden Builders, the concept of an Angelic or antediluvian language was common during Dee's time.
Some common clusters are: Vowel Absence The absence of vowel phonemes in consonant clusters or after word-end consonants is marked by the absence of vowel letters.
Schleyer himself never agreed with this essential limitation of his copyright, and when Kerckhoffs offered to block reform of Volapük, Schleyer dismissed in its entirety the whole Academy.
Lidia, in particular, took a keen interest in Esperanto, and as an adult became a teacher of the language, travelling through Europe and to America to teach classes in it.
When the mountains are hit by a thunderstorm, Dominic rushes to her rescue and finds Veronica chanting in Sanskrit.
In 2016, he was awarded the Neil and Saras Smith Medal for Linguistics by the British Academy "for his outstanding lifetime contribution to the field of linguistics".
Rules Example : 食饭 → 手习花散 [sit fan] → [siu jit fa san]; eat (rice) → hand + learn + flower + separation.
The language is used for the second time in song in Enya's 2015 album Dark Sky Island, on two tracks which follow the 'intergalactic' theme of the title - "The Forge of The Angels" and "The Loxian Gates".
The characteristic has also been claimed as an ancestor of the pictographic Energy Systems Language and associated Emergy Synthesis of Odum's Systems Ecology (Cevolatti and Maud, 2004).
La ricerca della lingua perfetta nella cultura europea (The Search for the Perfect Language (the Making of Europe); trans.
A palatalized consonant is marked with a hacek, a nasalized vowel with a tilde: ã (among other things, nasalization marks the accusative case; a long vowel by a circumflex: â If stress is not marked, it falls on the last non-schwa vowel preceding the last consonant of the word.
Structures of this sort may with some adroitness be made to stand; but their equilibrium is unstable, and sooner or later they will inevitably tumble over.
For example, words beginning with 'sol', which include no repeating syllables, have meanings related to arts or sciences (e.g.
Based in Amsterdam, Netherlands, its main functions are the propagation of the language, arranging the yearly conferences in which Ido speakers gather, and the publishing of the magazine Progreso (Progress), begun in 1908 by Louis Couturat, one of the founders of the movement who died in 1914.
As a historian, Baumann published work on the history of Bavaria and Bavarian culture, publishing a book Bavarian trade in the 18th Century, especially under Elector Maximilian III Joseph: Cultural-historical Studies from Archive Sources (German: Das bayerische Handelswesen im 18.
Background "Sanomi" was written in an imaginary language by Yves Barbieux, a member of the Belgian folk music band Urban Trad, of which he was a part along with Verónica Codesal, Marie-Sophie Talbot, Didier Laloy, Dirk Naessens, Cédric Waterschoot, Soetkin Collier, Philip Masure, and Michel Morvan.
In 2010, back slang was reported to have been adopted for the sake of privacy on foreign tennis courts by the young English players Laura Robson and Heather Watson.
"Centre de documentation et d'étude sur la langue internationale (CDELI)" [Esperanto Studies] (in Esperanto and French).
He (as he/she then is) is caged in "The Mask Factory", and his captors fear him much more than any of their other creations.
BCI is an international group of people who act as an authority regarding the standardization of the Blissymbolics language.
Early life Childhood Claude Vivier is believed to have been born on 14 April 1948 in the vicinity of Montréal, Québec, and was voluntarily placed in the orphanage of La Crèche Saint-Michel (no longer in operation) that same day by his mother.
When Dawn tries to pay for the lesson, Don stops her and reveals his intention: to con people out of their money by teaching them a fraudulent language.
Dalgarno was also interested in constructing what he called a 'philosophical language', now more usually referred to as universal language.
In an interview, Sotomayor stated that she aimed for Kēlen to be naturalistic apart from its verblessness, and that to achieve this she employs the principle "change one thing and keep everything else the same".
In addition to the above eight official members, Ralph Midgley, former governor (guvan) of Volapük, was also on the board of the Academy as a deputy prior to his death in 2024.
Languages of Almea described on the website include: Most words in those languages have etymologies, being derived from proto-languages (like Proto-Eastern above) by means of sound changes, and are given historical backgrounds, resulting in the presence of loan-words.
Higley in her book Hildegard of Bingen's Unknown Language: An edition, translation and discussion (Palgrave Macmillan 2007), The New Middle Ages ISBN 1-4039-7673-2, ISBN 978-1-4039-7673-4) where she discusses Lingua Ignota in the context of constructed languages up to the present day.
References Further reading "Provisional notes on cataloging in the A-ka-u-ku (Bamum) script, in the Shümom and Bamum languages | Yale University Library".
She has also written numerous short stories, about equally divided between fantasy and science fiction, which have appeared in various anthologies and collections over the last twenty years.
References External links Proposal for Encoding the Mwangwego Script, Unicode Article on designing a font for the script, Endangered Alphabets
Clearly, the words 食 and 饭 are each split into two sounds, the initial and the rime, thus 食 [sit] is made up of the initial of 手 [s] and the rime of 习 [it], and similarly, 饭 [fan] is [f] from 花 and [an] from 散.
To a far lesser, though still significant extent, Sorang Sompeng is learned, taught, read, and written for secular educational and literary purposes in Sora communities, primarily in the Indian states of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh.
The features were based on 40 tokens of misunderstanding between speakers from Japan and Switzerland, and were intended as subject to further empirical testing and fine-tuning.
It has a small number of phonemes, so that regional "accents" are less likely to produce unintelligible speech.
meni "meni bibel" my books) tu (you, singular), te (you, singular/object), ten (your(s) singular; pl.
Sananmuunnos ("Word transformation"), sometimes kääntösana, is a sort of verbal play in the Finnish language, similar to spoonerisms in English.
Hupé suggests that synaesthetic colour experience lies not in the brain's colour system, but instead results from "a complex construction of meaning in the brain, involving not only perception, but language, memory and emotion".
This is similar to the traditional Chinese practice of representing sounds by two characters known as fanqie.
He was commissioned into the Royal Army Service Corps and was selected for the Airborne Company, where he worked as a brigade liaison.
The first drafts were published online in 2001, while the complete form was published in the 2014 book Toki Pona: The Language of Good (referred to as lipu pu in Toki Pona).
In 2011, Phillips launched the BiteyCastle Effects Academy (BCA FX), a subscription-based series of video tutorials teaching how to do 2D animated visual effects.
The circumstances of what exactly happened that night and early the following morning are still a matter of speculation, but Dolzan would later say that he accepted Vivier's invitation with the intention of robbing and killing him.
Then each of the fore-parents goes forth and brings back another ler of the appropriate gender, the "after-parents".
This effort brought him into contact with members of the Oxford Philosophical Club, one of the precursors of the Royal Society.
The untranslated texts of the Liber Loagaeth manuscript recall the patterns of glossolalia rather than true language.
Background and release "Heaven" was written by Andreas Schuller, Leroy Clampitt, Sebastian Barac, Marcel Botezan, Laila Samulesen, Trey Campbell and Theea Eliza Miculescu, while production was handled by Barac and Botezan.
Near the end of his life, Leibniz wrote that combining metaphysics with mathematics and science through a universal character would require creating what he called: ...
It uses 24 of the 26 letters of the ISO basic Latin alphabet, "w" and "y" are not used, and has three additional letters "œ", "ü" and "σ" which comes from the Greek alphabet.
For his US book tour, Tammet appeared on several television and radio talk shows and specials, including 60 Minutes and the Late Show with David Letterman.
Translation "Visiting by chance the 2nd World Congress of Esperanto in Geneva (in 1906), I became an Esperantist and took part there in the founding of the International Scientific Esperantist Association, of which I was elected secretary.
BSO failed to attract investment for a further development phase after 1990, and DLT was abandoned unfinished.
Jacobs and Hergé became close collaborators and greatly influenced each other, while together they developed the plot for the next Adventure of Tintin, The Seven Crystal Balls, which began serialisation in Le Soir in December 1943.
Dum mia laboro por la reformo de Esperanto mi ekzamenis ne nur la projekton Ido, sed ankaŭ la interlingvojn el la skolo "naturalisma" (Occidental, Latino sine flexione, ktp.).
Union for the International Language Ido (Ido: Uniono por la Linguo Internaciona Ido, ULI) is the official union of the Ido-language movement from 1910.
Esperanto II was one of several languages investigated by the International Auxiliary Language Association, the linguistic research body that eventually standardized and presented Interlingua de IALA.
Proposed subdivisions Historically, the term "North Slav" has been used in academia since at least the first half of the 19th century.
This is the variant most used in Brazilian Portuguese, while the others are more common in European Portuguese.
Additionally, Change involves a forced decrease in age of 10 to 20 years, limiting the number of Changes possible in a short period of time.
Appropriately, the very term sananmuunnos is one; it becomes munansaannos, which can be understood as "receiving/providing of sex".
Personal life Overview Vivier was best known among his friends and acquaintances for his extroverted personality, effeminate mannerisms, and distinctive laugh, described by some as being similar to the cackle of a hyena; or, "very loud and a bit creepy".
Yuantang is a subdialect spoken by Hakka speakers at Yuantang (Chinese: 苑塘), a village in southern China.
She vigorously denied the claims, and after an investigation later that year it was concluded that the accusations were exaggerated and based on outdated information.
for the West Slavic and East Slavic languages considered as a combined unit, particularly when contrasted to South Slavic languages.
It was designed to be an intuitive language: Karky said he used hard consonants and soft consonants depending on the nature of the words' meanings.
Background and history In its concultural setting, Kēlen is spoken by an alien species called the Kēleñi, for whom the language was created.
Pasigraphies are purely written languages without a spoken form, or with a spoken form left at the discretion of the reader; many of the 17th–18th century philosophical languages and auxlangs were pasigraphies.
Emphasizing that the quest for a perfect language has never been devoid of ideological motivation, Eco outlines some objections to the idea and suggests that an International Auxiliary Language, such as Esperanto, is a more realistic project.
“English as a global language – What do future teachers have to say?” In *Gnutzmann, Claus; Intemann, Frauke (eds.).
The term "Enochian" comes from Dee's assertion that the Biblical patriarch Enoch had been the last human (before Dee and Kelley) to know the language.
English has Pig Latin, with a similar morphological construction, moving the first consonant to the end of the word and following in with the suffix -ay.
This progresses to multiplication, division, variables, and constants, then propositional logic, set theory, and first-order logic.
The use of Lapine words is often (although not exclusively) used to indicate concepts unique to rabbits, such as silflay (aboveground grazing) or tharn (freezing behavior).
Léopold Leau (1868-1943) was a French mathematician, primarily known for his ties to international auxiliary languages.
As with Leibniz's calculus ratiocinator two different schools of philosophical thought have come to emphasise two different aspects that can be found in Leibniz's writing.
Books in this series so far are: The Levin-Gad (2018) The Landlady (2019) The Librarian (TBA) Star Trek Duane has also written a number of Star Trek novels: Original Series The Wounded Sky.
Gibson of the United States Army Coastal Artillery, which replaces words with numbers using the digits 0-9.
Lingua Franca Nova Boeree was also the inventor of the auxiliary language Lingua Franca Nova (ISO 639-3: lfn), which first appeared in 1998 on the Internet.
The Delegation for the Adoption of an International Auxiliary Language was founded on 7 January 1901 on Leau's initiative.
Some verlan words, which are now well incorporated in common French language, have taken on their own significance, or at least certain connotations that have changed their meaning.
The Zompist Bulletin Board The website has a corresponding bulletin board, formerly hosted with SpinnWebe but now with its own domain at www.verduria.org.
In 1921, he was able to travel to Persia; excited at his arrival, he wrote poems chronicling exciting events and the sights around him.
Esperanto has become "the most outlandishly successful invented language ever" and the most widely spoken constructed international auxiliary language.
ESF also sponsored the creation of the documentary film The Universal Language, and produced the video course Esperanto—Pasporto al la Tuta Mondo (available on YouTube).
Symbols representing a single adjective may be written inside or above the symbol for the preceding word that they modify.
The Pali alphabet, including the Ariyaka script, consists of 41 letters: 6 vowels 2 diphthongs 32 consonants 1 accessory nasal sound (niggahīta) Consonants are further classified into 25 mutes, 6 semivowels, 1 sibilant, and 1 aspirant, with vowels divided into long and short forms.
Other variations send the text through several languages before translating it back into the original or continue translating the text back and forth until it reaches equilibrium (i.e., the result of the back translation is identical to the text used for the forward translation).
Works on psychology Boeree was the author of the first online psychology texts, which he made available at no cost to students and other interested parties starting in 1997.
Modern statistic-based and context-based translation programs are able to produce a better translation.
By advocating a constructed international language, constructed along logical principles and with a vocabulary taken from existing European languages, Couturat was paralleling Peano's advocacy of Interlingua.
Such an origin is credited to two children — Ed "Squirrel" Clement and Lank McGimsey — who started making up words in the summer of 1890.
Names Names are written by enclosing multiple characters in a cartouche shaped like a rounded rectangle.
This promising hypothesis came to nothing because the system was too vulnerable to wind and weather.
Podaná (Greek: ποδανά) is a Greek argot based on rearranging syllables, similar to Verlan and Vesre.
As noted by Boleslas Gajewski: "one should take great care to pause after every word; this slight pause is necessary to separate the words, so that the listener does not become confused".
The fictional language Kiliki (also referred to as Kilikili) spoken by the Kalakeyas, a ferocious warrior tribe, was created by Madhan Karky for the film.
ELF and GEs, describing what people actually do when communicating [simple or not]; and "World Englishes", generally accounting for language features and commonalities by region/group, vs.
Prepositions, conjunctions and interjections are also formed from noun roots by appending appropriate suffixes.
In the year 1976 Weferling even published his autobiography Ek le vive de un oldi interlinguistiker (From the life of an old Interlinguist) in Intal.
sanan muunnos [sa-nan mu-ːnnos] → [mu-nan sa-ːnnos] → munan saannos If necessary, stilted diphthongs are converted into allowed diphthongs as per phonotactics.
Others Breckon, Colin Joseph, "Symbolism as a Written Language", pp.74–83 in Breckon, C.J., Graphic Symbolism, McGraw-Hill, Sydney), 1975.
Vocabulary Example words Numbers Numbers with values in both tens and ones are formed by combining ones number with tens number, and joining them with affix -un-.
Rosario has its "Rosarigasino" method for obfuscating words, and Córdoba has an entirely different set of colloquial conventions.
Martin's description of the language, as well as from such languages as Estonian, Inuktitut, Turkish, Russian, and Swahili.
𞓕 (/a/) + ◌𞓬 → 𞓕𞓬 (/ã/) Example 1: Mundari: 𞓝𞓟𞓕𞓬, IPA: /t̪uãː/ , Translation: Milk/Breast Example 2: Mundari: 𞓧𞓟𞓬 , IPA: /mũː/ , Translation: Nose Vowels preceding or following nasal phonemes like /ŋ/, /ɲ/, /ṇ/, /ɳ/ and /m/ are also nasalised.
Other languages Other languages have similar coded forms but reversing the order of syllables rather than phonemes.
McIntyre) Marion Zimmer Bradley's Fantasy Magazine (1988–2000) Marion Zimmer Bradley's Fantasy Worlds (1998) Spells of Wonder (1989) Sword and Sorceress series (1984–2013) (edited by Marion Zimmer Bradley, after her death by Elisabeth Waters and Diana L.
Because the resulting text can often differ substantially from the original, RTT can also be a source of entertainment.
Background Although Zamenhof's stated preference was to avoid any discussion of changes, he was put under considerable pressure, including financial, to respond to the diverse reforms proposed by others.
This set historically tends to overlap with taxonomic languages, though there is no inherent reason a pasigraphy needs to be taxonomic.
Mute English in South Korea From elementary school to high school, South Korean students spend about 730 hours on English classes at school alongside private tutoring and cram schools, online English classes and even going abroad to improve their English.
Publishing history Long poems 1910: “Snake Train” 1913: Prologue to the Futurist opera Victory over the Sun Plays 1912: The Little Devil Books 1912: Teacher and Student.
This was on the basis that the victorious powers of the war would better favour Bavaria in a new union state, rather than in a Prussian-dominated Germany.
The family was forced to flee to Vienna after the Imperial Russian Army occupied Czernowitz in 1916.
Zamenhof initially called his language "Lingvo internacia" (international language), but those who learned it began to call it Esperanto after his pseudonym, and this soon became the official name for the language.
was calling himself the Budetlyanin (a Russian pun, meaning 'a Future Living Being'), not a Futurist, and not accidentally that term was not held' ('...не случайно...
He is best known for his ideas surrounding Bavarian separatism, and for his series of Universal German languages, Wede.
He moved with his parents and brother to the United States in 1956 and grew up on Long Island, New York.
Life and career After doing his national service in the navy for two years, studying Russian as a coder (special), and commissioned as a midshipman, he returned to Cambridge as a PhD student in 1956.
It has been translated into Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, and German by fans, and came out in book form in March 2010.
Once Gary Gygax's attention had been drawn to Barker's work, it was decided that TSR would publish a revised version of the game mechanics along with a condensed version of his campaign setting.
The IANA Language Subtag Registry (for IETF's language tags defined in BCP 47) was updated on 29 July 2009 to include all ISO 639-3 and ISO 639-5 identifiers in use at that time.
Jean-François Sudre, also written Sudré (15 August 1787 – 3 October 1862), was a violinist, composer and music teacher who invented a musical language called la Langue musicale universelle or Solrésol.
For example, the city of Udine is called Udin in Friulian, the town of Tolmezzo is called Tumieç, the town of Aviano is called both Avian and Pleif.
Distributed Language Translation (Esperanto: Distribuita Lingvo-Tradukado, DLT) was a project to develop an interlingual machine translation system for twelve European languages.
The author concluded that RTT was a poor method of predicting the quality of machine translation software.
Latin and Greek (or Koine Greek) were the intermediary language of all areas of the Mediterranean; Akkadian, and then Aramaic, remained the common languages of a large part of Western Asia through several earlier empires.
N’Ko literacy was thus instrumental in shaping Maninka cultural identity in Guinea, and strengthened Manding identity in wider West Africa.
In April 2004, the basic version of the plan was announced as service streamed over the internet, that would broadcast a four-hour block in order to reach out to a wide international audience.
Rest and recuperation Orwell returned to England in June 1937, and stayed at the O'Shaughnessy home at Greenwich.
Leau studied at the École normal supérieure in Paris and received his doctorate there in April 1897.
She is best known for being the creator of Encantadia in 2005 and the succeeding related television series including the Encantadia 2016 reboot.
List of notable pidgins Many of these languages are commonly referred to by their speakers as "Pidgin".
Famous Grammelot also include Charlie Chaplin's faux-German in The Great Dictator and Monty Python's Knights Who Say Ni.
He was initially educated at St Ann's RC School, Stretford, before he won a scholarship to St Bede's College, Manchester, joining in September 1943.
The contemporary project for a politically and culturally unified Europe provides the perspective for a more serious consideration of the theme.
An inverted speech form similar to Totoiana also exists in the French language and is known as verlan (from l'envers, "the inverse", but inverted).
International Sign, though a pidgin language, is present at most significant international gatherings, from which interpretations of national sign languages are given, such as in LSF, ASL, BSL, Libras, or Auslan.
He has continued to do outside work as a freelance animator, writer and special effects designer for clients such as Kellogg's, BioWare San Francisco and Wizards of the Coast (Dungeons and Dragons).
Peano's language was sometimes called Interlingua, not to be confused with the better-known Interlingua presented in 1951 by the International Auxiliary Language Association (IALA).
As the Living Tongues Institute for Endangered languages tells us – roughly every two weeks a language dies”.
The Talossan language, also created by Madison in 1980, claims a vocabulary of 35 000 root words and 121 000 derived words – including fieschada ([fjeˈʃaðə]), meaning "love at first sight".
tai or ta, and similarly with formal vi, av(i), va(i); li "s/he", ali or al "he" and the masculine prefix, lai or la "she" and the feminine prefix, etc.
It has a phonology based on elementary melodic distinctions, and a simple lexicon and grammar inspired by pidgins.
Wikipedia There is also a Nko version of Wikipedia in existence since 26 November 2019, it contains 1,588 articles, with 12,799 edits and 5,831 users.
He was often considered to be not only one of the greatest science fiction authors, but one of the best American writers regardless of genre.
It was used mainly by market sellers, such as butchers and greengrocers, for private conversations behind their customers' backs and to pass off lower-quality goods to less-observant customers.
The Zompist Bulletin Board (often abbreviated ZBB) is an online forum created for the purpose of discussing conlangs, conworlds, and Mark Rosenfelder's own constructed world, Almea.
The Lingua Franca Core (LFC) is a selection of pronunciation features of the English language recommended as a basis in teaching of English as a lingua franca.
This led to schism, with much of the Academy abandoning Schleyer's Volapük in favor of Idiom Neutral and other new constructed language projects.
Khlebnikov died while a guest in the house of his friend Pyotr Miturich near Kresttsy, in June 1922.
Brown intended Loglan to be as culturally neutral as possible and metaphysically parsimonious, which means that obligatory categories are kept to a minimum.
In 1893, he was relocated to Bonthain (now Bantaeng in South Sulawesi); in 1896, to Padang and also to Aceh; in 1898, to Sintang, where he married for the second time, to Elise Marie Wilhelmine Gerardine Chavannes.
Furthermore, students in China are more used to a prescriptivist approach to their education and as a result may not be too receptive to the teaching methodology of native English speakers in explaining rules.
In his dissertation, Leau examined, among other things, the iteration behavior of holomorphic functions in the environment of a rationally indifferent fixed point.
The English grammar may hide the fact that the "beautiful" adjective translates the concept of "enjoying", a true verb, so a simpler Kalaba-X sentence would be better "Enjoy a lot, picture this, me." But the analysis does not stop there, because Kalaba-X features no pronouns, i.e.
Unamunda Unamunda itself is based on words in the English language, as well as German, Russian, and the Romance languages.
During his trial, he persisted in using Miller's language in his documents and oral arguments, despite being repeatedly ordered by the court to communicate in a comprehensible fashion.
Schleyer first published a sketch of Volapük in May 1879 in Sionsharfe, a Catholic poetry magazine of which he was editor.
However, French words that end in a ⟨e⟩ muet (such as femme [fam]) and words that end in a pronounced consonant (such as flic [flik]) gain the sound [œ] once reversed.
c is pronounced /ʃ/ (like English sh), g always hard (as in German), j as in French, and y and z as in English.
These first five systems are closely related: All were progressively simplified pictographic protowriting with logographic elements.
Under Israeli law, the organization that officially directs the development of Modern Hebrew is the Academy of the Hebrew Language, headquartered at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
As Finnish is a mora-divided language, it is morae that are exchanged, not syllables (often a mora is also a syllable in a Finnish word, but not always).
External links Desatir, or, Sacred writings of the ancient Persian prophets : in the original tongue ...
Nineteen days later, Arie reached the city of Batavia alone, and on the 25th, he decided to depart to his workshop in Makassar.
For example, names of people and places are used as modifiers of the common word for "person" and "place", e.g.
Língua dos Pês (Portuguese, P Language) is a language game spoken in Brazil and Portugal with Portuguese.
He also developed a strong interest in linguistics and historical literature, studying the mechanics of ancient Greek and Latin, which would later prove influential for his langue inventées.
Mwangwego continues to hold public lectures and exhibitions in academic institutions and teach the script.
It is most commonly employed in situations such as trade, or where both groups speak languages different from the language of the country in which they reside (but where there is no common language between the groups).
is a 'peer-reviewed international and multilingual journal devoted to the study of multilingualism and language policy', which has regularly items on Interlinguistics, like "Table of contents".
In addition, verlan often drops the final vowel sound after the word is inverted, so femme and flic become meuf ([mœf] – meufa in full form) and keuf ([kœf] – keufli in full form), respectively.
Development and dissemination The idea for a Malawian script came on November 10, 1977, in Paris, when Mwangwego discovered that there are various writing systems in the world, and thought that words meaning "to write" in Malawian languages were evidence that they once had a script of their own.
Some cultural critics praised the play, while others said (such as Sergey Yutkevich, who would later become a well-known Soviet screenwriter) it was very badly staged.
For example, the word darba (strike), of Arabic origin, is close to Russian "удар" (udar; strike), Chinese "打" (dǎ; to strike), and even marginally to English "strike" and Hindi "प्रहार" (prāhar).
These languages were created for chauvinistic purposes, specifically for the aim of implementing German as a lingua franca in post-World War One Europe.
The macron is a 'killer stroke' that deletes the vowel from a syllable and so forms consonants and NC clusters (/nd, ŋɡ/) that can be used for syllable codas.
Thus for Jespersen, progress towards communicative efficiency is anyway inevitable, but can also be assisted by language engineering.
An omnibus of the first four Rihannsu novels, containing minor tweaks for consistency and re-editing Swordhunt and Honor Blade into the originally-intended single novel.
𞓖 (/ɟ/) + 𞓕 (/a/) → 𞓖𞓕 (/ɟã/) Dipthongs Mundari frequently uses sequences where two or three vowels follow each other without an intervening consonant.
In addition to the various atlases and languages, there is also a wiki called the Almeopedia, which works as an encyclopedic reference.
The Standards Council of Canada then sponsored, on January 21, 1993, the registration of an encoded character set for use in ISO/IEC 2022, in the ISO-IR international registry of coded character sets.
El la 12 membroj de la komitato nur du estis lingvistoj, kaj nur 4 partoprenis; oni aldonis nomojn de anstataŭantoj aŭ novaj membroj sen rajtigo.
The main association to foster the use and development of Friulian is the Societât filologjiche furlane, founded in Gorizia in 1919.
Cornelis George Boeree (January 15, 1952 – January 5, 2021) was an American psychologist at Shippensburg University, who specialized in personality theory and the history of psychology.
For example, the English sentence "This picture is very beautiful." would be structured in Kalaba-X as if it were written "Beautiful very, picture this, me." where the subject (me) is explicitly given in Kalaba-X rather than being subjectively implied by the context.
Antonymic roots such as tarde for malfrue "late" and poke for malmulte "few" are used today in Esperanto poetry, though they resemble Ido and Esperanto may have acquired them from that language.
When speaking to other animals, the rabbits adopt a lingua franca known as "Hedgerow." However, in both examples given in the book (i.e.
Mishnaic attributive patterns are often used to create nouns, and Classical patterns are often used to create adjectives.
After her stint at Balintataw TV, she tried to write romantic novels and with the help of Lualhati Bautista, her work entitled Ako si Alex, Babae (I'm Alex, a Woman) was published by Anvil Publishing.
Active participle: amant loving Passive participle: amed loved The passive voice is formed with the verb esar to be and the passive participle: mi es amed I am loved, mi averio esed amed I would have been loved, etc.
The work of the preposition de "of, by, from" is divided up into several more specific prepositions.
The first published reference to it was in 1851, in Henry Mayhew's London Labour and the London Poor.
The script was created by the self-taught scholar and Sora activist Mangei Gomango in 1936 and is used primarily in religious contexts, akin to a liturgical language, in the rites of the Matar Banom (or Matharvanam) neo-animist religious movement of the Sora.
Irrespective of how it is going to be received by the public nationwide, the script is bound to go in the annals of our history as a remarkable invention.
The second type of languages have a formal syntax and formal semantics, and can be mapped to an existing formal language, such as first-order logic.
The Ariyaka script (Thai: อักษรอริยกะ) is an obsolete alphabet, invented by King Mongkut as an alternative to transcribing Pali, the liturgical language of Theravada Buddhism.
The term "Modern Hebrew" has been described as "somewhat problematic" as it implies unambiguous periodization from Biblical Hebrew.
However, George Cadar, a member of the Romanian Association of Semiotic Studies, claims to have recorded a similar form of speech far from Alba County, although he did not elaborate on this.
Sample text Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Belter Creole: Kowl mang fong beref im im ferí unte eka [...].
While attending Texas A&M University, he published his first speculative fiction in The Commentator, a student literary journal.
Most spellings were not formalized until the 1970s, primarily by the writings of Jack (Wee Fuzz) June.
Encantadia is her very first project as head writer and her first work in the telefantasya genre, which she created for GMA Network.
De Wahl thus chose to send a memorandum of principles on which to base an international language, a memorandum which arrived after the committee had already adjourned.
Vincent Gajewski, a Parisian professor, popularized the language as the president of the Central Committee for the Study and Advancement of Solresol, which was founded in 1869 by Sudre's widow, Joséphine, to further promote his work.
In the same letter he wrote a description of how the live burial could be avoided and also made a proposal for general charity and that the profits from sales of his Communicationssprache materials be donated to the above-mentioned French populated areas.
This was because RTBF dropped Collier on the advice of the Belgian security services, who claimed that she had had far right sympathies in the past.
In 1837, he moved back to Klagenfurt, where he first worked in the administration of the Diocese of Gurk, and from 1843 as the chaplain of Klagenfurt Cathedral.
Attested personal pronouns (Dee's material only): Demonstrative pronouns: oi 'this', unal 'these, those', priaz(i) 'those'.
Reluctantly he decided to present a reformed dialect himself and undertook to continue guiding the community, whether or not reforms were eventually agreed upon.
Remi continued publishing cartoons, drawings and woodcuts in subsequent issues of the newsletter, which was soon renamed Le Boy-Scout Belge (The Belgian Boy Scout).
The suffixes used for the singular are dependent upon the ending of the noun stem, and the suffixes for the plural depend upon the animacy.
Nevertheless, Majar continued to propagate radical pan-Slavic ideas through the magazine Slavjan (The Slav), which he had founded in 1873.
An example of the latter is the suffix -ment: move/r, move/ment (not movetment), experi/r, experi/ment (not experitment), and -ntie (English -nce): tolera/r (tolerate), tolera/ntie, existe/r (exist), existe/ntie.
Grammar Loglan has three types of words: predicates (also called content words), structure words (also called little words), and names.
That website is now deprecated, and new resources will be created with the formation of la Società per l'Ilesnaziun del Glheþ Naziunal (Society for the Facilitation of the National Language, SIGN).
Adams was the recipient of the inaugural Whitchurch Arts Award for inspiration in January 2010, presented at the Watership Down pub in Freefolk, Hampshire.
Not one in a million is fit for it, and least of all those who seek the opportunity." Battle of the Somme Tolkien arrived at the Somme in early July 1916.
The first person to learn the script was Mwandipa Chimaliro; ten other students that year learned the script as well who went on to teach others.
On the Navon task, relative to non-autistic controls, Tammet was found to be faster at finding a target at the local level and to be less distracted by interference from the global level.
Notes References David Cram and Jaap Maat, (eds.), George Dalgarno on Universal Language: The Art of Signs (1661), The Deaf and Dumb Man's Tutor (1680), and the Unpublished Papers, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2001.
The syntax is heavily dependent on sign, but sign is used for some lexical words as well, typically for physical verbs such as 'hold'.
Examples of works that are already available include: Alice's Adventures in Wonderland The Wonderful Wizard of Oz The Little Prince The Metamorphosis In a Grove The Book of Esther Lojban has also been used in other media.
auxiliary languages destined for oral and written use between people who cannot make themselves understood by means of their mother tongues".
In 2007, Lang said that at least 100 people speak Toki Pona fluently and estimated that a few hundred have a basic knowledge of the language.
While Karky was pursuing a PhD in Australia, he took up a part-time job of teaching and baby-sitting children.
In the liner notes to the 2009 compilation album The Very Best of Enya, "It has been a truly unique journey ...
Since Miller's death, "Quantum Grammar" has seen continued usage by other people within the sovereign citizen movement.
Traditionally, controlled languages fall into two major types: those that improve readability for human readers (e.g.
In his letter to the organizers, he said, "I am profoundly convinced that every nationalism offers humanity only the greatest unhappiness ...
Stanciulescu secretly witnesses the event and overhears Dominic ask, "Where do you want me to put the third rose?" Stanciulescu persuades Dominic to escape from Romania and the Nazis.
Under such translation, the effective semantic of the sentence is "I (find that) this picture is very beautiful." where the author of the sentence is responsible for this affirmation.
Morphology Lojban has three word-classes: predicate words (brivla), structure words (cmavo), and name words (cmevla).
In the summer of 1960, Lyons went to Indiana University to work in a machine translation project; he was chosen because of his expertise in Russian and linguistics.
Phonology Phonemic inventory Toki Pona has nine consonants (/p, t, k, s, m, n, l, j, w/) and five vowels (/a, e, i, o, u/).
Possessive forms The short form of the possessive pronouns looks like this: The third person singular suy is universal and can be used as the possessive form for both ta, it, ela and lu – for ela and lu, there are also the forms elay and luy.
The first edition of Zangezi was published in July 1922, but Khlebnikov didn't see the publication because had died a few weeks earlier on June 28, 1922, from what some sources said was malaria.
Its grammar is largely Persian, while its vocabulary is mostly invented, although there are words that have been adapted from Persian, Hindi, Avestan, Sanskrit and Arabic.
A longtime recording and business partner of Irish singer and composer Enya, Ryan created the language during the production of the latter's sixth studio album, Amarantine (2005).
Both adjectives and adverbs would take the ending "-e", be invariable, and depend on position for clarity.
"Pê" dialect This "dialect" is more like Kongarian (a language game spoken with Hungarian) than the other "dialects" of Língua do Pê.
In the following months, Majar's manifesto was elaborated into a program known under the name of United Slovenia.
He was Guest of Honor at the 1985 World Science Fiction Convention and he received the 1989 Edward E.
Two of his textbooks have been published, one on personality theories and one on the history of psychology.
Kanté initially used the system to transcribe religious, scientific, and philosophical literature, and even a dictionary.
Peterson and his development of the Dothraki language were featured on an April 8, 2012 episode of CNN's The Next List.
These two factors have greatly affected Chinese students' ability to acquire English as a second language.
The satirical use of such a format may date back to the 16th-century commedia dell'arte; the group of cognate terms appears to belong to the 20th century.
The affix e indicates past tense when prefixed (ebela "formerly beautiful", eʃefo "ex-boss"), but future tense when suffixed and stressed (sanéa "healthy-to-be", urbéo "city-to-be").
Avant-garde painter Vladimir Tatlin staged the play Zangezi on May 23, 1923 in the Petrograd Museum of Feature Art, in a production where cultural researcher Nikolay Punin and poet Georgy Yakubovsky read lectures before the play began.
Et Verdenssprog: Et Forsøg på Spørsmålets Løsning ("A world language: An attempt to solve the question").
The language was built to attempt to remove some limits on human thought; these limits are not understood, so that the tendency is to try to remove restrictions whenever we find the language structure gets in our way.
(Esperanto Language Committee) 25 copies of the project, to distribute among its 100 members (some of whom were living outside of Europe) and demanded a response in one month.
Optional inflection Plurality and pluractionality may be shown through reduplication, usually partial: tatablo (or tablo-tablo) "tables", dendeno or dedeno "days", kloklora "of many colours", marmarʃu "walk repeatedly".
Couturat was thus the first to appreciate that Leibniz was the greatest logician during the more than 2000 years that separate Aristotle from George Boole and Augustus De Morgan.
She also mentioned that there was a similar case in 2007 when she wrote the television adaptation of Lupin.
Also, Finnish inflectional and derivational morphology is extensive, thus applying a suffix from another word often produces a valid word.
History Rohidas Singh Nag started designing the initial characters of Mundari bani in 1949 while in grade school, which he wrote on the walls using clay.
In 2012, 146 newborn girls in the United States were named "Khaleesi", the Dothraki term for the wife of a khal or ruler, and the title adopted in the series by Daenerys Targaryen.
Sample text Lexicon Modern Hebrew has expanded its vocabulary effectively to meet the needs of casual vernacular, of science and technology, of journalism and belles-lettres.
(Do you remember how cool it was?) Dutch In the Netherlands and Belgium, the most common version is to insert the syllable "ep" before every vowel.
Marion Eleanor Zimmer Bradley (June 3, 1930 – September 25, 1999) was an American author of fantasy, historical fantasy, science fiction, and science fantasy novels and is best known for the Arthurian fiction novel The Mists of Avalon and the Darkover series.
These are: the variety of Quechua that was used as a lingua franca and administrative language in the Inca Empire (1438–1533) (or Inca lingua franca).
Thus the world would be seen as "what is among the ground and the sky", and "Blissymbols" would be seen as "the writing tool to express the world".
Exclamation marks come at the beginning of a clause, which ends in a comma or period as normal; question marks come at the end.
During his studies in Klagenfurt, he came under the influence of Anton Martin Slomšek, a Roman Catholic priest and author who propagated the use of Slovene in the public sphere.
Current use As of 2005, it was used mainly in Guinea and the Ivory Coast (respectively by Maninka and Dyula speakers), with an active user community in Mali (by Bambara speakers).
Other prose works Duane made available in various e-formats a previously unpublished book which was sold to at least two European publishers, but never actually brought out due to internal restructuring at one publishing house (Corgi) and the sale of another (Heyne Verlag).
Most importantly, proponents of this view reject the idea that emerging insights into how English is used as a lingua franca can provide useful input with regard to the aims and methods of English language teaching.
The most developed of these are Quenya and Sindarin, the etymological connection between which formed the core of much of Tolkien's legendarium.
It is thus important to clarify that the "basic version" of the language – that is, the version after which the basics of the language is not to be changed – was not published until 2010.
Foster at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database Review of The Gameplayers of Zan by Jo Walton, with comments on the other Ler books.
Many features of the site have been noted by the press, including its culture tests, humorous excerpts from phrase books, its collection of numbers in over 5000 languages, and The Language Construction Kit.
It was the time of the Dunkirk evacuation, and the death in Flanders of Eileen's brother Laurence O'Shaughnessy caused her considerable grief and long-term depression.
However, the British Council declined to publish the essay on the grounds that it was too problematic to write about food at the time of strict rationing in the UK following the war.
Annually, South Koreans spend $752 million on additional support to take English proficiency tests and they are globally regarded as the largest market to take the TOEFL.
Chancerel in fact uses the word in his book, Le théâtre et la jeunesse (Paris: Bourrellier 1946:47).
The person is thus identified as a "fact" existing in the "now-time-dimension"; the names as written in this way are distinguished from the names listed at birth and in "all-caps" (as on a birth certificate), which identify the legal estate and not the living being in fact.
In July 2024, a British group led by Mark Kishon Christopher, a Miller disciple, along with Matthew Dean Martin, Sean Harper, and Shiza Harper identifying themselves as the 'Federal Postal Court' or 'the Court for the People' were convicted of conspiring to kidnap the Senior Coroner for Essex.
After two failed applications for an ISO 639-3 code, a third request was filed in August 2021, which resulted in the ISO 639-3 code tok being adopted in January 2022.
Serpent's Walk and Holocaust denial Barker wrote a sixth novel, Serpent's Walk, under the pseudonym Randolph D.
Career He was the French advocate of the symbolic logic that emerged in the years before World War I, thanks to the writings of Charles Sanders Peirce, Giuseppe Peano and his school, and especially to The Principles of Mathematics by Couturat's friend and correspondent Bertrand Russell.
He started work on The Road to Wigan Pier by the end of April, but also spent hours working on the garden, planting a rose garden which is still extant, and revealing four years later that "outside my work the thing I care most about is gardening, especially vegetable gardening".
Block The Unicode block for Sorang Sompeng script, called Sora Sompeng, is U+110D0–U+110FF: Fonts Microsoft Windows made a font called Nirmala UI, which supports Sora Sompeng.
A short story within the same universe, "Uptown Local", has also been published as part of Jane Yolen's Dragons and Dreams anthology, and a podcast of Duane reading it is freely available from her website.
At one point there were perhaps up to even one million students of Volapük, but later began to decline.
Since the location of Rupini's cave is unknown, the scholars, led by Professor Giuseppe Tucci, agree to fund an expedition to find it in India.
He points out that the impossible quest has had some useful side effects (taxonomy, scientific notations etc.) but dwells mostly on exotic proposals.
From 1972 he moved to teach at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, where he chaired the Department of South Asian studies until his retirement in the early 1990s; a few years after, the department was disbanded due to reduced funding.
The order is as follows: In prepositional phrases, prepositions always precede their noun complements.
In the episode "Andy's Ancestry" from the United States television show The Office, Dwight Schrute created the Dothraki phrase "throat rip" by putting "throat" in the accusative and placing it in front of the transitive verb.
One of the scheduled programs, Teleĵurnalo, the first Esperanto newscast, wasn't in the initial schedule.
Plot synopsis Dawn di Vito wanders into an office, hoping to learn Unamunda, an Esperanto-like language.
Scientific study After the World Memory Championships, Tammet participated in a group study, later published in the New Year 2003 edition of Nature Neuroscience.
Talossan language Madison invented Talossan ([tɐɫɔˈsan] or el glheþ Talossan [ɛɫ ʎeθ tɐɫɔˈsan]) as a constructed language for his micronation.
He specialized in English philology at university and in 1915 graduated with Old Norse as his special subject.
Dritok handshapes (and orientation) The Drushek have three fingers and a thumb, so the ring-finger may be ignored in these images.
Examples of verlan in cultural mainstream include the 1984 comedy Les Ripoux (My New Partner) (ripou is verlan for pourri, or rotten, and refers to a corrupt policeman); and the 1977 hit "Laisse béton" by singer Renaud (béton is verlan for tomber and the phrase means "drop it").
After leaving school, the members stayed in touch and, in December 1914, they held a council in London at Wiseman's home.
It is included in the unofficial Under-ConScript Unicode Registry since 2022, at the Private Use Area codepoints range U+F1900–U+F19FF.
Boontling briefly enjoyed a national audience in the mid-1970s when a Boontling speaker named Bobby (Chipmunk) Glover was a regular guest on the well-known The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson on the NBC television network.
Furlan standard or Furlan normalizât, also known as coinè or lenghe comun, it is the lenghe scrite or the standard written language for the entire Friulian community.
Mongkut established a printing press for the script at Bowonniwet Vihara Temple in Bangkok, where a limited number of texts were printed.
Louis Couturat the monumental Histoire de la Langue Universelle (1903) and its supplement Les Nouvelles Langues Internationales (1907).
Each of these three parts, which are linked semantically rather than grammatically, can be modified.
Regarding the first stance, some linguists claim that variation in ELF is completely haphazard and devoid of any patterns, and therefore not worth studying.
Childhood John Ronald Reuel Tolkien was born on 3 January 1892 in Bloemfontein in the Orange Free State (later annexed by the British Empire; now Free State Province in the Republic of South Africa), to Arthur Reuel Tolkien, an English bank manager, and his wife Mabel, née Suffield.
Impersonations, Chinese Whispers and Fun with Machine Translation on the Internet" in Proceedings of the 11th Annual Conference of the European Association of Machine Translation
The proposal sparked a debate among linguists and pedagogists, while Jenkins contended that much of the criticism was based on misinterpretations of her proposal.
In April 2017, Doctolero commented on Twitter about the series saying that the first weeks of Destined to be Yours were flop or did not rate well but it later had good ratings after changing the direction of the story.
Into the boat!" (cognate literally to German Nach dem Boot!) See also Bordurian References "On the Syldavian language" by Mark Rosenfelder Har Brok, Is Syldavisch Slavisch?
They have the same values as in the International Phonetic Alphabet: j sounds like English y (as in many Germanic and Slavic languages) and the vowels are like those of Spanish, Modern Greek, or Modern Hebrew.
In a December 1976 editorial for The Dragon magazine, editor Tim Kask drew comparisons between the world of Tékumel and J.
The BCP 47 subtag x can be used to create a suitable private use tag for any constructed language that has not been assigned an official language tag (e.g., art-x-solresol could be used for Solresol).
The writing is essayistic and uses the biblical story of Babel as a paradigm for connecting linguistic and social practices.
cent (100), mil (1000), milion (1,000,000) El prim (the first), el duli (the second), el trili (the third) etc.
Internacia Televido (International Television) was an internet-based Esperanto-language television station, launched on 5 November 2005 by the Ĝangalo news site from São Paulo, Brazil.
There was no need for a little boy like me to realize how stupid it was to speak six different languages.” Blitz's early life was filled with poverty, cold and starvation.
"Semivowels" are [x] or [h] when interpreted as Umod consonants, and as [ə] or labialized [u, ɔ] when interpreted as vowels.
Popular speech has created some instances; for example, natives of Barranquilla, Colombia often call their city Curramba, in a stylized form of vesre.
So "T pa nu vedma S" means the same thing as "S pa vedma T" and might be translated "T was sold by S".
The two diacritics are a circumflex (ko'ndon) that may be added to any of the 80 glyphs, and a macron (tukwentis) that is restricted to a dozen.
Jemmer's work documents the evolution of numerous inter-related languages (the process of development and analysis is called "aleolinguistics").
Disch identified Isaac Asimov and Gene Wolfe, respectively, writing: "...all too many have already gone into a decline after carrying home some trophies.
Upon its publication the text stirred controversy, some scholars at the time regarding it as a genuine ancient text on par with the Avesta, others deeming it to be a forgery.
According to Laycock: The texts in the Loagaeth show patterning "characteristically found in certain types of meaningless language (such as glossolalia), which is often produced under conditions similar to trance.
In 2024, Lang published The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (Toki Pona edition), the first in the su series of illustrated storybooks aimed at beginners, in which all Toki Pona text is written in sitelen pona.
The cover of "All by Myself", originally by Eric Carmen, was renamed to "I'm All Alone", and performed by Ghian Wright.
It contains comprehensive syntax for each linguistic stage (or "aleostate"), and vocabularies involving approximately 2000 lexemes.
The contrast between checked and free vowels is maintained quantitatively, not necessarily qualitatively, so that the vowel in heat is longer than that in hit but need not differ in quality.
to see [Jespersen's] life-long preoccupation with auxiliary languages and his creation of Novial not as a heroic failure but as a revealing application of his linguistic thought.
In February 2020 on International Mother Language Day, the film's director SS Rajamouli launched the official website of Kiliki.
Verb phrases are formed with tense prefixes, with the subject pronouns written together with the verb.
Urban Trand performed "Sanomi" twenty-second on the evening, following Latvia's "Hello From Mars" by F.L.Y.
In 1895 he lectured in philosophy at the University of Toulouse and 1897 lectured in philosophy of mathematics at the University of Caen Normandy, taking a stand in favor of transfinite numbers.
Both the ITV and Ĝangalo websites suffered from malfunction in January 2006, the cause being frequent storms in São Paulo at the time, which damaged its servers.
Derivational morphology Some of the structure of Universal words is apparent at a glance, but cannot be easily extended to create new vocabulary.
Interlinguistics is also concerned with investigating how ethnic and international planned languages work as lingua franca and with the possibilities of optimizing interlinguistic communication.
Like most languages with few speakers, Lojban lacks much of an associated body of literature and its creative extensions have not been fully realized.
The decision of the committee was to adopt Esperanto in principle, but with the reforms spelled out by Ido.
History and description Although Boontling is based on English, many of its unusual words are unique to Boonville, California.
A Baltic German naval officer and teacher from Estonia, de Wahl refused to leave his Tallinn home for Germany, even after his house was destroyed in the 1943 air raids on the city forcing him to take refuge in a psychiatric hospital.
Origins The Anderson Valley, of which Boonville is the largest town, was an isolated farming, ranching, and logging community during the late 19th century.
Totoiana is still spoken in the village, and its inhabitants recall that Totoiana was once more widely spoken than standard Romanian in Totoi, even if it is now only used for fun "with a beer".
Her first published novel-length work was Falcons of Narabedla, first published in the May 1957 issue of Other Worlds.
Though the review criticized Inna's pronunciation of the lyrics and wished the text was stronger, it concluded: "this is definitely a song that we need on our summer playlist".
Until his death, Adams lived with his wife in Church Street, Whitchurch, Hampshire, within 10 miles (16 km) of his birthplace.
He is best known for his animation work, consisting of flash animation compositions published on his website, Bitey Castle, and on the flash portal Newgrounds.
Examples are shown for the verb amar to love in the active voice; the endings do not change for person or number, except in the imperative.
In the same manner: Me vidi mucho kinda – "I see a lot of children" lacks the plural indicating ending -s, because the plural is already indicated by mucho, in contrast to: Me vidi kindas – "I see children" that uses the plural "-s" ending.
Although Baumann later joined the Nazi Party, several of his languages drew large parts of their structure from Yiddish.
He not only revised Volapük, but also (together with other Volapükist contemporaries) began Volapükaklub Valemik Nedänik (Dutch Universal Volapük Club) and founded Diläd valemik Feda Volapükaklubas.
He grew up with an interest in science fiction, fantasy, and ancient Egyptian and ancient Mayan cultures.
Vocalic /ʷ/: It is written by adding the IKIR to the vowel that follows to impart a labialized glide.
Greyland reported that she was not the only victim of Bradley's, and also that she was one of the people who reported her father for child molestation, for which he received multiple convictions.
In July 1950, Lyons progressed to Christ's College, Cambridge, where he took a degree in Classics in 1953 and a Diploma in Education in 1954.
James Lieberman and Humphrey Tonkin, with the aim to further the understanding and practice of linguistic justice in a multicultural world, with a special focus on the study of interlinguistics and the role of Esperanto.
"Introdução à Criptologia." Online: <https://web.archive.org/web/20040127104620/http://www.numaboa.com.br/criptologia/intro.php> October 1, 2005.
Übersetzen, Interkulturelle Kommunikation, Spracherwerb und Sprachvermittlung—das Leben mit mehreren Sprachen“.
Almea Almea is a fictional world constructed by Mark Rosenfelder, which Zompist.com is mainly dedicated to.
Where quotation marks are used, CJK-style corner brackets (「...」) and double high quotation marks (“...” or "...") are most common.
This was the second time that Belgium finished as the runner-up, the first being "L'amour ça fait chanter la vie" by Jean Vallée in 1978, and it was also the country's best placing in the contest since "J'aime la vie" by Sandra Kim victory in 1986.
A modern translation of his Ars signorum (Art of Signs, 1661) was published in 2001 in an edition that also includes his autobiography and other manuscript writings.
Even though vesre has spread to other countries, and can be heard in Peru, Chile and Ecuador, Spanish speakers outside the Río de la Plata area are usually less inclined to use it.
The regional law 15/1996 approved a standard orthography, which represents the basis of a common variant and should be used in toponyms, official acts, written documents.
An online newspaper is active, and there are also a number of musical groups which use Friulian for their songs as well as some theatrical companies.
Notably, in most Francophone West and Central African countries, French has transitioned from being only a lingua franca to the native language among some communities, mostly in urban areas or among the elite class.
In an interview, Coppola said that he made the film as a meditation on time and on consciousness, which he considers a "changing tapestry of illusion", but he stated that the film may also be appreciated as a beautiful love story, or as a mystery.
These languages restrict the writer by general rules such as "Keep sentences short", "Avoid the use of pronouns", "Only use dictionary-approved words", and "Use only the active voice".
This unchanging state is artificially enabled by an outside party that has stationed researchers throughout Oerlikon.
Another example, showing meta-conversation: See also Active SETI Alien language METI (Messaging Extraterrestrial Intelligence) SETI References Bibliography Freudenthal, Hans (1960).
Animate to Harmony: The Independent Animator's Guide To Toon Boom (2014) - Guide to using Toon Boom's Animate and Harmony software.
Thus, those languages can be used as knowledge representation languages, and writing of those languages is supported by fully automatic consistency and redundancy checks, query answering, etc.
For example, mi finyish showxa, which means I have spoken, and mi ta finyish showxa which means I had spoken.
Unaware of this, de Wahl was bewildered at the lack of response to his continued letters; even a large collection of poetry translated into Occidental was never delivered.
français [fʁɑ̃sɛ] becomes céfran [sefʁɑ̃]; French louchébem, which relies on syllables inversion too, but also adds extra syllables; Greek podaná (e.g.
Ford also writes of the Slavs being "conventionally" divided into three sub-branches (West, East, South), but "in reality" divided only by geographic isolation into two bands that form two dialect continua: North and South – a view mirrored by linguist Tomasz Kamusella.
On the basis of the recognition of the innovative nature of his work, Bliss was appointed an Honorary Fellow in Linguistics at the Australian National University, by the (then) Head of the ANU School of Linguistics, Professor Bob Dixon, in 1979.
It has 5 to 10 vowels, depending on whether diphthongs and vowels are counted, varying with the speaker and the analysis.
As a result of the lack of money in the fundraising campaign, ITV launched with a limited program offering.
This practice also resembles Jin, another Sinitic language, in its process of splitting a monosyllabic word into two syllables.
Booklist magazine contributing reviewer Ray Olson stated that Tammet's autobiography was "as fascinating as Benjamin Franklin's and John Stuart Mill's" and that Tammet wrote "some of the clearest prose this side of Hemingway".
Sama papa obeka al dude – Find a good place to eat Kama mingipewa l'arafi gaba milijo paasa, mingijira lε.
("We speak wardsback, see?") café → feca (coffee) e.g., "¿Querés un feca?" (Would you like some coffee?") caballo → llobaca (horse) botella → llatebo (bottle) pelo → lope (hair) mujer → jermu (woman).
For example, den is put before the object, like this: Ela lubi lu – “She loves him”, versus Den lu ela lubi, with the same meaning (literally “Him she loves”) – where the object lu is marked by placing den before it.
Zamenhof is honoured as a deity by the Japanese religion Oomoto, which encourages the use of Esperanto among its followers.
In this, he was opposed by Henri Poincaré, who took considerable exception to Couturat's efforts to interest the French in symbolic logic.
Personal life Wolfe was born in New York City, the son of Mary Olivia (née Ayers) and Emerson Leroy Wolfe.
The following table shows the words of up to two syllables from Gajewski's dictionary: The definite article has different forms for the nominative, genitive and dative cases, or, in English, for "the", "to the", and "of the": 'la', 'fa' and 'lasi', respectively.
https://sites.google.com/site/esperanto1894/ (in Esperanto) Overview and list of changes made in Esperanto1894, incl.
Majority North Slavonic groups today include the Belarusians, Czechs, Kashubians, Poles, Silesians, Rusyns, Russians, Slovaks, Sorbs, and Ukrainians.
History Pali, an early-period language, has been traditionally used to preserve cultural heritage and religious teachings.
Hindustani The Hindustani language, with Hindi and Urdu as dual standard varieties, serves as the lingua franca of Northern India and Pakistan.
References External links Talossa website Talossa wiki Talossan language information and translation resource Archived 2021-02-12 at the Wayback Machine Committee for the Use of Talossan Language L'Översteir, bidirectional Talossan-English translator 2010 Arestada newsletter "R.
Lapine is a fictional language created by author Richard Adams for his 1972 novel Watership Down, where it is spoken by rabbit characters.
It was there that, because the Nazi bombing of England was called the "blitz," he changed his surname to Bliss.
Etymology The name of the language has two parts: toki 'language', derived from Tok Pisin tok, which itself comes from English talk; and pona 'good, simple', from Esperanto bona, from Latin bonus.
However, the CÚG has been dormant for a prolonged period of time and therefore the La Società per l'Ilesnaziun del Glheþ Naziunal ("Society for the Facilitation of the National Language", SIGN) has been founded in September 2017.
The original runtime was 210 minutes, then cut down to 170, then cut down to 140 minutes, Walter Murch then cut it down to the desired 124 minutes.
Title and history Zangezi is the name of a prophet in the work, the name being composed from Kalmyk word 'zyange', that in Kalmyk language means "messenger".
These servants and slaves would come to use the creole as an everyday vernacular, rather than merely in situations in which contact with a speaker of the superstrate was necessary.
In his work, Khlebnikov experimented with the Russian language, drawing upon its roots to invent huge numbers of neologisms, and finding significance in the shapes and sounds of individual letters of Cyrillic.
It was understood that the changes effectively resulted in the creation of a new language, which was named Idiom Neutral (which means “the neutral idiom” or “the neutral language”).
Sudre created a group of musicians who were attempting to develop a way of transmitting language through music.
Terminology The word pidgin, formerly also spelled pigion, was first applied to Chinese Pidgin English, but was later generalized to refer to any pidgin.
However, in 2010 Phillips partnered with programmer and fellow animator Sean McGee to start work on a Brackenwood-branded video game titled Dashkin, which would serve as a sequel to The Last of the Dashkin.
Sample texts Aparati deb esar adresed a shef de stasion Peterburg e deb esar asekured per vo e per votr kont; if aparati u partii de ili esero ruined u perded in voyaj, vo deb mitar nemediate otri, plasu aparati e partii ruined u perded.
Letters Numerals Unicode The Sorang Sompeng script was added to the Unicode Standard in January 2012, with the release of version 6.1.
Texts written in Kēlen have been translated into other languages by several people other than the creator of the language.
Finally, the fourth section describes the concepts and language relating to mass, space, and motion.
So "Le matma ga vedma" means "The mother sells (at some unspecified time in the past, present or future)".
The passive voice which means action is formed with the help of the particle fi and the passive participle of the verb.
It was developed as a secret language for the use of palace officials, employing a random mix of words from French, English, and German.
vori): vor bibel (your (pl.) book), vori bibel (your (pl.) books) ili (they), eili (them, object), lor (their(s); pl.
Word classes Nouns Nouns (substantives) are invariable except for the feminine form, which is formed by using suffix -in e.g.
I had difficulty with the idea of having purely sounds in the song, and so began to create a meaning and a history behind them purely for myself.
See also Interlinguistics Esperantology References External links Esperantic Studies Foundation official website Lernu!
ESF also helped to establish official Esperanto examinations in accordance with the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages.
Arie de Jong had an important role for these years in the struggle against many tropical diseases, considering that new treatments and previously denied methods appeared at the turn of the century.
Despite the continued efforts, it has even been discovered that Japan's level of English has even decreased.
Due to the grammar and word order of Solresol, distinguishing parts of speech aren't usually required to understand the sentence.
Script and pronunciation The language uses the Latin alphabet with the addition of two vowel letters, ⟨Ɛ ɛ⟩ and ⟨Ɔ ɔ⟩, which have their values in Ghanaian languages and the IPA, [ɛ] and [ɔ].
The upcoming premiere of a second version of the song, featuring a "well-known" artist, was announced, but never materialized.
Dictionaries of Idiom Neutral and an outline of the grammar were published in several European languages in 1902 and 1903.
Rosenfelder has published several follow-up works: Advanced Language Construction and The Conlanger's Lexipedia, which get into more detail on certain aspects of conlanging, and The Planet Construction Kit, which is geared towards creating whole fantasy worlds.
The endings -bil, -ic, -im, -ul and -um do not change the stress (even when more than one is present in a single word), nor does the adverbial ending -men: rapidmen, duplic, bonissim, singul, possibil, maximum, statisticas.
The writings of Alexander Gode suggested that Leibniz' characteristica had a metaphysical bias which prevented it from reflecting reality faithfully.
Numerals Cardinal numbers: un, du, tri, kvar, kvin, siks, sep, ok, nin, dek, dekun, dekdu,..., dudek, dudek un, ..., tridek,..., sent, mil, milion, miliard' Ordinal numbers are formed by adding the ending –ti to the cardinal numbers: prim/unti first, duti second, triti third.
Collection of the articles published by Zamenhof in 1894) (in Esperanto) Pri Reformoj en Esperanto (in Esperanto).
During mid-19th century religious reforms in the Rattanakosin Kingdom (1782–1932), Mongkut discouraged the use of Khom Thai in religious texts, arguing that its exclusivity falsely implied divine or magical significance.
In this work, not only does he provide a review of Yiddish grammar, but also proposes its transition to the Latin script and other orthographic innovations.
The circumflex generally has the effect of adding a glottal stop to the syllable, for instance kâ is read /kaʔ/, though the vowel is shortened and any final consonant is dropped in the process, as in pûə /puʔ/ and kɛ̂t /kɛʔ/.
In 1934 they again moved, to Lundehave, a large house in the outskirts of Helsingør, provided by the Royal Danish Academy of Sciences and Letters for a distinguished academician.
Voice actor Carlo Bonomi, also from Milan, used grammelot to voice Osvaldo Cavandoli's cartoon La Linea and many years later, outside Italy, Otmar Gutmann's Pingu.
History The Academy had its origin as the Kadem bevünetik volapüka (literally 'International Academy of the World Language') at a congress in Munich in August 1887, was set up to conserve and perfect the auxiliary language Volapük.
Some fonts supporting the BCI repertoire are available and usable with texts encoded with private-use assignments (PUA) within the UCS.
Its minimal vocabulary and 14 phonemes are devised to be easy to pronounce for speakers of various language backgrounds.
The Drushek are large-eared, long-tailed leaping sciurine sapients with no vocal cords, who value solitude and quietness.
A pidgin differs from a creole, which is the first language of a speech community of native speakers that at one point arose from a pidgin.
Whereas a vernacular language is the native language of a specific geographical community, a lingua franca is used beyond the boundaries of its original community, for trade, religious, political, or academic reasons.
The intermediate translation could be transmitted over a network to any number of workstations which would take care of the translation from IL into the desired language.
A military application was soon suggested: a bugler on a battlefield could transmit orders to a regiment by playing an appropriate tune.
For any of these, the fingers may ⟨@⟩ be inverted (point in the opposite of their usual direction for the basic orientation).
According to Jespersen, interlinguistics is "that branch of the science of language which deals with the structure and basic ideas of all languages with the view to the establishing of a norm for interlanguages, i.e.
Adding the inherent vowel of the syllable voices a consonant: tu + u = /du/, fu + u = /vu/, ju + u = /ʒu/, ja + a = /ʒa/, ʃi + i = /ʒi/, puə + u = /bu/.
The second part of the text consists in a Persian translation of the first part, which is attributed to the fifth Sasan, but its linguistic characteristics are typical of the 16th-17th centuries, and it is most likely written by the same author.
The songs respectively were used in the first and third seasons of the show, premiering in 2015 and 2018.
In his Nobel lecture, Fo referred to the 16th-century Italian playwright Ruzzante's invention of a similar language based on Italian dialects, Latin, Spanish, German and onomatopoeic sounds.
Other brochures dealt with grammar and teaching materials for adults and children from 12 to 14 years of age.
It is unique to the village and not spoken in the other villages that form part of the commune of Sântimbru, to which Totoi belongs.
This is a list of ISO 639 codes and IETF language tags (BCP 47) for individual constructed languages, complete as of January 2023.
Constructed languages "North Slavic" has been used as a name for several 20th- and 21st-century constructed languages forming a fictional North Slavic branch of the Slavic languages.
To speak Totoiana, the Romanian word is said from the middle to the end and then the beginning is added to it.
Adding more modifiers in Kalaba-X to the initial verb part of such sentence can make the semantic more precise by including various modes (including tense, variability, recurrence, progress, negation...) but also logical composition relations like unions, intersections and exclusions).
Suitability of text for machine translation It is also suggested that RTT can be used to determine whether a text is suitable for machine translation.
According to statistics by Media Forest, the single was the third most-played recording on Romanian radio on 9 October, while its music video was the sixth most-aired visual on Romanian television.
After Weferling died in 1982, his efforts were nearly forgotten and the authorities of the surviving constructed language organizations showed no readiness to change their system according to Intal or to unify.
During one such interaction, he thought it would be fun to create a new language that could be easily grasped.
Idiom Neutral is an international auxiliary language, published in 1902 by the International Academy of the Universal Language (Akademi Internasional de Lingu Universal) under the leadership of Waldemar Rosenberger, a St.
André Cherpillod writes of the third Volapük convention, In August 1889 the third convention was held in Paris.
The symbol of the language – – is written this way, with the grapheme (pona) nested inside the grapheme (toki).
Their daughters, to whom Adams originally related the tales that became Watership Down, are Juliet and Rosamond.
The website is also the home of The Language Construction Kit, Rosenfelder's article introducing new conlangers to the hobby.
The final resolution was voted upon by only three of the twelve plus four substitutes and the secretaries.
Application Walker (2010) is considered the first textbook for language teachers to incorporate the Lingua Franca Core.
At the end of each section, with the exception of the last one, there is a prophecy about the next prophet.
As a result, The Blue Lotus has been widely hailed as "Hergé's first masterpiece" and a benchmark in the series' development.
The Studios would provide both personal support to Hergé and technical support for his ongoing work.
After only a year, on May 15, 1893, he became a Volapük professor (reported in the newspaper "Nuns blefik se Volapükavol" (Brief News in the World of Volapük) the following year).
Hergé had long sought to regain contact with his old friend Zhang Chongren, with whom he had lost contact.
Survey of a Language for Cosmic Intercourse Archived 2020-11-09 at the Wayback Machine (Bruno Bassi)
So, from etogo 'a house' comes togo (or togode) 'to house', and from umeme 'electricity' comes memɔ 'electric'.
However, most or all of these languages were, as far as can be told from the surviving publications about them, too incomplete and unfinished to serve as auxlangs (or for any other practical purpose).
The old SIL language identifiers (usually written in capitals) are officially obsolete and should no longer be used.
He served in Palestine, Europe, and East Asia but saw no direct action against either the Germans or the Japanese.
Both its sound inventory and phonotactics are compatible with the majority of human languages, and are therefore readily accessible.
"Souleymane Kanté, un philosophe-innovateur traditionnaliste maninka vu à travers ses écrits en nko" [Solomana Kante, a Maninka traditionalist philosopher-innovator seen through his writings in N'Ko].
Vivier was one of Tremblay's more enthusiastic and dedicated pupils, with Tremblay recalling: "He was eager to know.
The LCK proceeds from the simplest aspects of language upward, starting with phonology and writing systems, moving on to words, going through the complexities of grammar, and ending with an overview of registers and dialects.
Bradley wrote many Darkover novels by herself, but in her later years collaborated with other authors for publication; her literary collaborators have continued the series since her death.
During this time, he was distracted by concerns about style and possible libel in Keep the Aspidistra Flying.
Urban.ro foresaw it as being successful on radios, and an editor of Pro FM listed the recording in their list of "16 hits with which Inna made history".
Controlled natural languages (CNLs) are subsets of natural languages that are obtained by restricting the grammar and vocabulary in order to reduce or eliminate ambiguity and complexity.
The distinctive feature of DLT was the use of [a version of] Esperanto as an intermediate language (IL) and the idea that translation could be divided into two stages: from L1 into IL and then from IL into L2.
Joseph Schipfer (8 April 1761 – 27 January 1843) was a German landowner and wine producer, today mostly known for his creation of the language Communicationssprache.
The consonant ' (apostrophe) was added with the value of [h] in the International Phonetic Alphabet, but its distribution is such that it can appear only intervocalically, and in discussions of the morphology and phonotactics, it is described not as a proper consonant, but a "voiceless glide".
Freudenthal considered that such a language should be easily understood by beings not acquainted with any Earthling syntax or language.
He studied music as a child and, at the age of eighteen, was admitted to the Conservatoire de Paris on 12 May 1806, where he studied violin under François Habeneck and harmony under Charles Simon Catel.
While Esperantists have little regard for the Delegation and its decisions, partisans of Ido continue to insist that the Delegation Committee was legitimate.
Originally a tool and die welder, Miller is best known as the creator of "Quantum Grammar", a version of the English language to be used by people involved in judicial proceedings.
as well as a series of symposia on language and development in New York aimed at raising the awareness of the United Nations about the importance of language equality for human development and human rights.
She refuses, telling Don that the language is more than just a method of communication; it is also a bond of love shared between the two of them.
Through the course of the play, Don and Dawn learn about each other and themselves, and fall in love.
Originally from Aberdeen, he later worked as a schoolteacher in Oxford in collaboration with John Wilkins, although the two parted company intellectually in 1659.
A joint committee of the House of Lords and House of Commons considered the petition, and rejected it in 1935.
Comprising the council is a mayor and 13 elected members, who are supported by a chief executive, as well as four general managers and approximately 175 field and inside staff.
Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 95 votes to 91, with Liberal Party member John Gorton absent.
He was given the additional command responsibilities of the 12th Division and the Northern Territory Lines of Communications Area in December.
In 2018, the SA state government reduced the levy by an average of $150 per household, costing approximately $360 million.
Military commission On 24 July 1804 he was commissioned into the army as an ensign in the 64th Regiment of Foot, which was at that time stationed in the West Indies.
It was created by the Legislation Act 2003 incorporating the functions and responsibilities of the now-defunct ComLaw and Federal Register of Legislative Instruments.
But the Commonwealth government directly nominating and recommending a Governor-General occasioned a controversy, both in the press at home and in Buckingham Palace.
This list of Australian Government entities includes ministerial departments, principal entities, secondary entities, and other entities, which are grouped into a number of areas of portfolio responsibility.
It was the first time anyone had ever been called to the Bar of the lower house, and it was the only time the Parliament has ever jailed anyone.
The next day the Australians of 3 RAR took the lead in the advance, and C Company was the leading company.
In May 1879, she became a great-grandmother (on the birth of Princess Feodora of Saxe-Meiningen) and passed her "poor old 60th birthday".
Following a derailment event in December 2011, Oz Minerals elected to use the line to export to the south via Port Adelaide.
History The title refers to Sir Rupert Cross, who originally wrote the textbook in the United Kingdom in 1958.
The Royalist view interpreted the phrase as "King, in Parliament"; that is, the King acting with the consent of the Lords and Commons, but ultimately exercising his own sovereign authority.
History Under the Additional Members Act 1864, the seats of Clermont, Kennedy, Maryborough, Mitchell, Rockhampton and Warrego were created.
Anticipating a US withdrawal, the McMahon government announced an 'accelerated withdrawal' of Australian troops in Vietnam in July 1971.
In 2010, the APLC together with the states identified the potential for a significant infestation of the Australian plague locust.
Louis John Wienholt (1918–1973) was a senior Australian public servant, including as Secretary of the Department of Social Security in 1973.
Policy-making functions of the Commission were assumed by the Queensland Department of Energy and Water Supply and its planning and regulatory functions became the responsibility of Seqwater.
She has been a Labor member of the Western Australian Legislative Assembly since the 2021 state election, representing Mirrabooka from 2021 to 2025 and Girrawheen from 2025.
Another similar portrait of Philip by Dargie, which has been described as "a draft or copy of the City of Melbourne portrait", is part of the collection of Melbourne Legacy, a charitable organisation whose collection is part of the broader Victorian Collections.
Opponents of the move to make Australia a republic claim in response that Australia already has an Australian as head of state in the governor-general, who, since 1965, has invariably been an Australian citizen.
The Department of Family and Community Services (also known as FaCS) was an Australian government department that existed between October 1998 and January 2006.
McVeigh resigned after he was preselected as the LNP candidate for the federal division of Groom at the 2016 federal election.
He says that extremists misinterpret Islamic teachings such as the Quranic injunction, 'whoever kills an innocent person, it's as if he has killed all of mankind'.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements, the Department's annual reports and on the Department's website.
The agency was responsible for setting water restriction policy and coordinating water infrastructure projects in the state.
From 1 July 2025, the corporation achieved the milestone of being powered by 100% renewable electricity and is on track to report net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for the 2025-26 financial year, four years ahead of its government obligations.
On refusing Privatisation and Administrative Affairs she says that she was not willing to put up with a junior portfolio of "limited interest." This portfolio now renamed Privatisation and Administrative Services went instead to David Connolly.
The Taronga Conservation Society is a Government of New South Wales agency responsible for Taronga Zoo Sydney and the Taronga Western Plains Zoo in New South Wales, Australia.
It replaced the Department of National Development and inherited domestic resources and energy matters from the Department of Trade and Resources.
The seat of the consulate-general is located on Level 3 of ESA Sampoerna Center, Sukolilo, Surabaya, East Java.
On 28 September 2010, Wyatt attended the opening of the 43rd Australian Parliament to take up his seat as member for Hasluck.
He was further honoured with appointment as a Lieutenant of the Royal Victorian Order in January 2014, for his services as Deputy Official Secretary to the Governor-General of Australia since 2009.
Arthur Herbert Evelyn Mattingley (1870–1950), noted Australian bird photographer and ornithologist, was a founding member of the Royal Australasian Ornithologists Union (RAOU) in 1901.
Upon arrival in Melbourne after the cessation of hostilities he was discharged from the Australian Imperial Force on 28 October 1919.
Defence minister Malcolm Fraser developed an uneasy relationship with Gorton and in early 1971, Fraser accused Gorton of being disloyal to him in a conflict with Army officials over progress in South Vietnam.
In 1822, Governor Macquarie returned from Australia and, after securing seven weeks' leave from his returned regiment, Watts went to visit the Macquaries, meeting them in Glasgow on 2 September 1822.
Awards Hayes was made an Officer of the Order of Australia in June 1992 for service to international organisations, and for his public service.
On 4 February 2004 the first passenger train arrived in Darwin from Adelaide, travelling 2979 km (1851 mi) in 47 hours.
See also Robodebt scheme List of Australian Commonwealth Government entities References External links Department of Social Services website
His next role was as Secretary of the Department of Industry, Tourism and Resources (later Department of Innovation, Industry, Science and Research), to which he was appointed by Prime Minister John Howard, who praised his knowledge and experience.
To South Korea Following the Korean War, South Korea was welcomed under the US "nuclear umbrella" after signing the ROK-US mutual security treaty on October 1, 1953.
For example, there was a specialist accreditation exam for Immigration law in 2018, you'll be expecting the next exam in 2020.
He was transferred to the 5th Divisional Signal Company in February 1917 and was promoted to lieutenant in April.
Life and career Hayes was appointed to the position of Secretary of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs starting in March 1982.
When the Australian Customs Service was established in 1985, splitting out from the Department of Industry, Technology and Commerce, Hayes was appointed its Comptroller-General.
These included the hours of sittings, a 20-minute limit on speeches, and a requirement that there be at least 4 hours of debate (or 12 speakers) before debate on any bill could be ended.
During his time as head of social security, Wienholt organized for his desk clerks to attend two-week courses in the slums of Melbourne and Sydney to "sensitise" them to the problems of departmental clients.
The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations was an Australian government department that existed between May 1982 and July 1987.
History Prior to July 2015, Norfolk Island was self-governed by the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly.
Structure The Department was a Commonwealth Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for Defence Production.
History In 1935 Para Wirra amalgamated with the District Council of Talunga to form the new and District Council of Gumeracha.
The announcement coincided with the revelation that the ADF was tracking a People's Liberation Army Navy flotilla in the Philippine Sea.
These meetings are chaired by the monarch or, if he is ill or abroad, crown prince (the monarch's heir).
The District Council of Para Wirra was a local government area of South Australia from 1854 to 1935, seated at Maidstone (later called Kersbrook).
It was based in the eastern suburbs of Launceston, Tasmania's second city, and the surrounding rural area.
In 2012, a new award for poetry was announced and the Prize for Australian History was incorporated.
From the late 1830s to 1945, the area surrounding Port Adelaide was subdivided into many small district areas as owners bought, subdivided and sold areas of land.
Hammat graduated from the University of Western Australia with a BA in politics and industrial relations and a MA in labor and industrial relations.
While both Europe and the US believe that data should flow freely, China has taken an opposing stance and has adopted data localization, but with stricter regulations.
Galvin joined the Australian Public Service in 1950, with a personnel cadetship that enabled him to obtain an arts degree from the University of Adelaide.
The 1865 Warrego colonial by-election was a by-election held on 25 March 1865 in the electoral district of Warrego for the Queensland Legislative Assembly.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual budget statements and in the department's annual reports.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements and in the Department's annual report.
The policy of multiculturalism has tended to be implicitly anti-British, despite Australia's British colonial heritage and the large number of British immigrants to Australia after World War II.
Among other things, the department was tasked with developing price stabilization and marketing plans for many agricultural commodities, including wheat.
See also Henry Tax Review List of Australian Commonwealth Government entities References External links Official website
He was awarded the Centenary Medal in 2001 for service to Australian society through public service leadership.
The Department of Education and Science was an Australian government department that existed between December 1966 and December 1972.
The Act was repealed in 1908 by the Seat of Government Act 1908, which selected Canberra as the new site for the territory.
The chamber itself is designed to seat up to 172 members, with room to accommodate a total of 240 with temporary seating.
Engineering heritage award Both the old and new Parliament House received an Engineering Heritage National Marker from Engineers Australia as part of its Engineering Heritage Recognition Program.
She competed at the World Championships and Games for the Disabled in Assen, Netherlands winning a bronze medal in Women's 100m T1 and fourth in Women's 400m T4.
In his report, Walsh found that there was a lack of coordination in the government over the establishment of cryptography policy.
This page details numerous records and characteristics of individuals who have held the office of Prime Minister of Australia.
The Consulate-General of Australia in Surabaya was established in February 2017, and is the fourth diplomatic mission of Australia in Indonesia after Jakarta (1935), Denpasar (1981), and Makassar (2016).
A corridor of oak trees has been planted at this place by each Prime Minister of Australia since Federation or a close family member.
Nominations The six candidates in ballot paper order are as follows: Result References External links Electoral Commission Queensland: 2016 Toowoomba South By-Election ABC Elections: 2016 Toowoomba South by-election
A three-part docu-drama series, The People vs Robodebt, commissioned by the SBS TV network, was first broadcast in September 2025.
The Department of Northern Australia was an Australian government department that existed between June and December 1975.
Only after the release of her diary and letters did the extent of her political influence become known to the wider public.
He was one of six chief investigators on an Australian Research Council Linkage project studying the history of ANZAC Day.
The Department of Transport was an Australian government department that existed between December 1972 and May 1982.
In 2001, the Constitution of Queensland was amended to restore the office of lieutenant-governor in that state.
He moved to the Investment Banking Group in Macquarie in 2005 where he was Principal Adviser, Regulatory involved with Macquarie Group interests globally in regulated utilities and infrastructure.
Personal Deahnne Mary McIntyre was born with spina bifida on 9 June 1971 in Canberra as a twin into a family of six children.
The Forum brings the world’s leading experts together with the “practitioners” of government: elected officials, civil servants, and political operatives from many countries.
She went on to question humans' contribution to the warming of the planet, suggesting that "climate changes continually, and if we have got to do something about it we have got to learn to adapt".
She was the first person to win a gold medal for the Australian Capital Territory at the Pacific School Games, in which she participated in 1984 and 1988.
Demographic projections released by the Queensland Centre for Population Research in 2011 found that there is a 50 per cent likelihood of Australia's population being larger than 35 million by 2050.
In February 2011 he responded to Cardinal George Pell's scepticism and ignorance about climate change during a Senate Estimates hearing.
Battle of Kapyong PVA forces of the 118th Division attacked the Kapyong Valley, and pushed ROK and New Zealand troops into retreat.
The Royal Majesty was the commonly used term to refer to the supreme executive authority under the 1809 Instrument of Government, under which the monarch made all decisions of state in the presence of his Cabinet ministers.
Beveridge, who had commissioned the Wattle Queen portrait of Elizabeth II, donated this portrait of Philip to the City of Melbourne.
The District Council of Munno Mara West was a local government area of South Australia on the central Adelaide Plains from 1854 to 1933.
Margaret and Alastair Macfarlane, "John Watts: Australia's Forgotten Architect 1814–1819 and South Australia's Postmaster General 1841–1861." Bonnells Bay, NSW.
The Australian Honour Flag is a special Australian flag that was created by the Commonwealth Government in 1918, as a result of World War I.
Structure The department was a Commonwealth Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for Defence.
Hunter is an atheist, and contributed a chapter to the 2010 Australian Book of Atheism on the topic of "Parliament and Prayer".
Term in office William "Bill" McMahon became Prime Minister of Australia on 10 March 1971, at the age of 63.
Stuart Francis Harris (born 14 March 1931) is a retired Australian senior public servant and academic.
Release of the complete report was also covered by Hobart's Mercury, Melbourne's Sun-Herald, The Sydney Morning Herald, many Internet news sites and radio stations in Perth and Sydney.
As counsel who was refused leave to appear, my sense of outrage over Parliament's denial of due process and natural justice remains undimmed after a lapse of 40 years".
The painting is part of the Royal Collection but has been on permanent loan to the Parliament of Australia since 1957.
Together with new dams and desalination plants the Commission aimed to counter the worst effects of drought in Australia.
According to political historian Brian Carroll: [Gorton's] style was Presidential rather than Prime Ministerial.
In 1988, Hayes left his position at the Australian Customs Service to take up the post of Secretary-General of the Customs Cooperation Council in Brussels (now known as the World Customs Organization).
Originally titled Defence Linguist Magazine, the name was changed to its current name after running a competition in the first edition.
The electoral district of Cumberland was a single-member electoral district of the Tasmanian House of Assembly.
In 1989, Harris was one of the three chairs appointed to lead the Ecologically Sustainable Development Process, commissioned by the Hawke Government.
Status The rules are a template only; the actual laws are those legislated by each state and territory.
The Secretary of the Department was David Rosalky, until 2001 and then subsequently Mark Sullivan, until 2004 and then Jeff Harmer.
Synopsis In All for Australia, Blainey argues: For the sake of national unity, the typical nation practises discrimination against migrants on the basis of ethnicity.
At the department's creation the department was responsible for the administration of Commonwealth policy on agricultural production, including responsibility for export inspection services, fisheries development and whaling.
The Treasury provides advice and assists in the formulation and implementation of government taxation and retirement income policies and legislation as well as providing information on material changes to taxation revenue forecasts and projections.
The seat was created in a redistribution ahead of the 1903 state election, and was abolished when the Tasmanian parliament adopted the Hare-Clark electoral model in 1909.
As of December 2023, there are 1,334 government entities reportable to the Australian Government Organisations Register.
The Department of National Development and Energy was an Australian government department that existed between December 1979 and March 1983.
Ronaldson served as the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister for the Centenary of ANZAC, and the Special Minister of State in the Abbott government from 2013 to 2015.
A member of the Cabinet is appointed to hold the position of Vice-President of the Executive Council to act as presiding officer of the Executive Council in the absence of the Governor-General, at no additional salary or allowance.
Orders-in-council may be used to implement secondary legislation, such as British statutory instruments.
Generally, an official of sub-cabinet rank, an administrator is appointed by the President of the United States with the consent of the United States Senate and assigned to run a specific US government agency.
The National Security Adviser was disbanded by Prime Minister Tony Abbott in 2013 and with their roles integrated into the Deputy Secretary of the National Security and International Policy Group within the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet.
Posters containing the photos and the 'white badge of cruelty' were produced for hanging in museums and schools.
Ultimately, Petrov was accused by the Soviet Ambassador of several lapses in judgement that would have led to his imprisonment and probable execution upon his return to the Soviet Union.
Prior to ACT Self-Government in 1989, what is now the Jervis Bay Territory constituted part of the Australian Capital Territory.
In March 1996 the City of Port Adelaide merged with the City of Enfield to form the new City of Port Adelaide Enfield.
Consequently, legislation passed after UDI was "enacted by His Excellency the Officer Administering the Government, as the representative of the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Parliament of Rhodesia".
In practice, meetings will only be attended by a small number of Councillors rather than the full Cabinet.
The Criminal Justice Commission was responsible for significant research into the Queensland Police Service.
An example is the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which included language that prohibited data localization restrictions among participants, which was carried over to the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership.
The longest service as an MP of a prime minister was Billy Hughes, who served from March 1901 until his death in October 1952, a total of 51 years.
In May 2016 the government handed down the 2016/17 federal budget which confirmed the final round of Australian aid cuts, $224 million or 7.4% of the Australian aid program.
Instead, immigration can be used to complement policy tools and urban design while reducing strain on infrastructure.
The Commissioner also has oversight of ASQA’s course accreditation process which accredits new courses to be nationally recognised, and ASQA’s regulatory reporting functions.
If the Governor-General is not in attendance, quorum is the vice-president and two serving ministers or assistant ministers.
Journalism Soutphommasane was a regular writer for The Australian newspaper, to which he contributed feature articles and the Ask the Philosopher column each Saturday.
The Register provides copies of all in force and superseded federal legislation, as well as legislative instruments, Regulations, Determinations, Notifiable Instruments and Administrative Arrangement Orders from 1901 onwards.
Some controversy existed over the 1893 election result, as a redistribution still awaiting royal assent had not been carried out due to the snap election and the sitting member and Speaker of the House, Nicholas John Brown, lost the seat to Don Urquhart, a Zeehan solicitor.
The Administrator of the British Indian Ocean Territory is the junior to a commissioner (Chagos Archipelago, notably Diego Garcia.
A paper that he read to the North Melbourne branch of the association on ‘The Discontent of the Working Classes’ came in for ‘severe criticism’ from radical members of the branch.
In 1981, Turner became a liaison officer for the Commonwealth heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) held in Melbourne, and in 1985 was appointed as director of the Alice Springs office of the DAA.
The Department of Primary Industry was an Australian government department that existed between January 1956 and June 1974.
The tallest prime minister is believed to be Gough Whitlam, who stood at around 6 feet 4 inches (194 cm) in height.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements and in the department's annual reports.
He left the post in August 2018, and for his services was advanced to Commander of the Royal Victorian Order in the 2019 New Year Honours.
Other countries and stakeholders have protested against this Chinese strategy of restricting the free flow of data.
This and other criticisms of senators in the same article led Hughes and four of his colleagues to be banned from Parliament House for several months.
The agency's role was outlined in the Zoological Parks Board Act 1973 and Amendment Act 1992 and fall within the jurisdiction of the Minister for the Environment.
The donation happened around the time of the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne, which was declared open by Philip.
On April 1, 1998, the CES was dissolved, and its remaining employment services were vested with ESRA.
During his time in the role, he accompanied Minister for Supply Allen Fairhall overseas visiting the United Kingdom and the United States on departmental business.
List of departmental secretaries The Secretary of the Department of Defence (SECDEF) is a senior public service officer and historically the appointees have not come from military service.
During his time in the House of Representatives, Ronaldson served as the Shadow Minister for Youth, Sport and Recreation, Shadow Parliamentary Secretary to the Leader of the Opposition and Shadow Minister for Schools, Vocational Education and Training.
He was involved in a variety of campaigns in the LGBTQ community, including a successful move to have sexuality included as a grounds for discrimination in 1986.
Hunter co-sponsored the 2011 Marriage Equality Bill with Greens MLC Tammy Franks also supported by the Australian Marriage Equality under its then national convenor Alex Greenwich who became the first same-sex married parliamentarian in Australia and the NSW Legislative Assembly.
This facility is designed to divert approximately 55,000 tonnes of food waste from landfill annually and is expected to generate up to 39,000 kWh of electricity per day, enough to power more than 2,200 households.
In February 1997, before the Walsh Report was publicly released, the Australian Attorney-General's Department embargoed it and withheld the report from commercial sale.
The Statute of Westminster required the Dominion governments be consulted on matters relating to the succession.
Under Fahour's leadership, in 2015 Australia Post recorded its first full-year loss in over 30 years, with half-year profits down some 56 percent.
By-elections to fill the new seats were held on 1 February 1865 (Maryborough and Rockhampton), on 18 March 1865 (Clermont and Kennedy) and on 25 March 1865 (Mitchell and Warrego).
Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh is an Australian portrait of Prince Philip, consort to Elizabeth II who reigned as Queen of Australia from 1952 to 2022.
At its creation, the department was responsible for the following: National energy policy, including planning and research into coal, oil and gas, uranium, solar energy and other forms of energy Radioactive waste management.
The National Security Adviser was tasked with Chairing the National Intelligence Coordination Committee alongside a raft of other national security leadership and advice functions.
Alice Springs to Darwin In 1983, the federal government announced its intention to extend the standard gauge line from Alice Springs to Darwin to complete the Adelaide–Darwin rail corridor.
At the time of the 2007–08 budget, the Government announced total aid of $3.2 billion and an expectation "to continue increasing development assistance, to $3.5 billion in 2008-09, $3.8 billion in 2009–10 and $4.3 billion in 2010–11".
He donated the land on which Jackson Park sits to the people of the Blue Mountains in 1933 for use as a public park.
Career In 1902, Broinowski joined the Commonwealth Public Service in Melbourne as a clerk with the Department of Defence, a position obtained via Prime Minister Edmund Barton who was a friend of his father.
The Parliament House Art Collection of over 6,000 works includes commissioned (and purchased) portraits of every prime minister, governor-general, president of the senate and speaker of the house, as well as other works of art significant to Australia.
The first edition of the rules was published on 19 October 1999 and was available for formal adoption by states and territories from December 1999.
The original wards at its inception had been East Adelaide and Hackney, Stepney and Maylands, Torrens, Payneham, Trinity, Norwood/Kent Town and Kensington.
SASES Rescue Challenges The biennial challenge is publicised on the news, and social media, where SES units within the state compete in a series of mock emergency rescues.
In his memoirs he wrote that he was so disillusioned by the outcome that he "saw myself as a failure and Parliament as something meaningless, just a 'front' for the dead democracy".
According to research conducted by the Development Policy Centre at ANU, Australia's declining aid expenditure puts it at odds with the aid budget trajectories that many other OECD countries are following.
These government agencies are classified by the Australian Government Organisations Register as either a non-corporate Commonwealth entity, a corporate Commonwealth entity, or a Commonwealth company.
To be led by a National Armaments Director, the organisation will be originally formed on 1 July 2026, later evolving to an independent autonomous agency a year thereafter.
Caucus Executive 1935-1937 The following were members of the ALP Caucus Executive from October 1, 1935 to October 29, 1937: John Curtin - Leader of the Opposition and Leader of the Labor Party Hon.
Under UN Supreme Commander, General Douglas MacArthur, UN forces were conducting a successful amphibious assault at Inchon and a breakout from the Pusan Perimeter on the southern tip of the Korean peninsula.
The City of Norwood Payneham & St Peters is a metropolitan local government area of South Australia.
The permanent head of the department was Allan O'Brien, initially based in Darwin and later based in Canberra.
In January 1999, the Australian Transport Council (comprising each of Australia's transport ministers) voted to approve the final draft Rules submitted by the National Road Transport Commission, the Commonwealth and all states and territories except Western Australia approved the rules.
His older brothers included Methodist missionary Rodger Page and Australian prime minister Sir Earle Page.
In addition, the three governments contributed about $26 million each, a total of $79 million in further funding to support the APTC directly, by way of mezzanine debt financing (subordinated debt), equity, and contingent equity.
In 1975, Harris moved to the Australian National University where he was appointed to the Chair of Resource Economics in the Centre for Resource and Environmental Studies (later renamed the Fenner School of Environment and Society).
The Department of Defence Production was an Australian government department that existed between May 1951 and April 1958.
Structure The department was a Commonwealth Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for National Development and Energy, John Carrick.
He was then a Commonwealth Scholar and Jowett Senior Scholar at Balliol College of the University of Oxford where he completed a Master of Philosophy with distinction and a Doctor of Philosophy in political theory.
The site turned out to be unacceptable to the Government of New South Wales, due partly to its distance from Sydney and proximity to Victoria.
A departmental reshuffle in December 1984 saw him transitioning to become Secretary of the Department of Arts, Heritage and Environment.
The Department of Employment and Workplace Relations (also called DEWR) is an Australian government department formed on 1 July 2022.
He was a Queenslander who went into practice with his wife, Hilda Wienholt, in Red Hill, Queensland.
Andrew Peter Thomson (born 7 January 1961) is an Australian former politician who served as Minister for Sport and Tourism in the Howard government.
Notable contributors to the magazine have included Australian award-winning actor, Jack Thompson, AM, and the Australian Chief of the Defence Force, General Angus Campbell, AO, DSC.
He was appointed Secretary of the Department in July 1984, having acted in the role since February that year.
It had a single member during its existence, John Hope, who had previously represented the seat of Devonport and went on to represent the new Wilmot division.
He has previously been a political staffer for Bob Carr, a columnist with The Age and The Australian newspapers, a lecturer at Sydney and Monash Universities, and a research fellow with the Per Capita think tank.
Admitted to the Bar, Ronaldson practised as a barrister and solicitor in Ballarat before entering politics.
Yarning: The language and culture magazine, (formerly Defence Linguist Magazine) is an international quarterly magazine, published by the Australian Department of Defence.
On 1 July 2014, the Department of Economic Development, Tourism and the Arts was amalgamated with the department and the name was changed to the Department of State Growth.
They are joined by one assistant minister, Ged Kearney, who is the Assistant Minister for Social Services and Assistant Minister for the Prevention of Family Violence.
His election, along with several other Victorian MHRs first elected in March 1990, was largely a result of a protest vote swing against the Labor (John Cain) state government of the time.
However, there were unconfirmed reports that senior officials had been executed prior to the ship leaving Rabaul.
Thomas Plunkett Hayes is a retired senior Australian public servant, best known for his time at the Australian Customs Service.
OPC was initially responsible for drafting both primary and delegated legislation, and for printing laws.
It is a committee of the Cabinet of Australia, though decisions of the NSC do not require the endorsement of the Cabinet itself.
The 16th Field Regiment, Royal New Zealand Artillery, also managed to withdraw and link up with the US Army's 72nd Heavy Tank Battalion.
As such, NSC attendance also includes the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Department of Defence, the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Department of the Treasury, and the Department of Home Affairs.
He served as Head of Commonwealth Protocol (2018–2019) and in various First Assistant Secretary roles in the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (2019–2021).
One form of strategy was declared at the 2002 Prague Summit, the NATO Active Layered Ballistic Missile Defense (ALTBMD).
Development of parliamentary sovereignty In England, by the mid-16th century, it was established that the "King in Parliament" held supreme legislative authority.
The Department of the Environment was an Australian government department that existed between October 1997 and October 1998.
After leaving Independent Pricing and Regulatory Tribunal in 2004, Parry joined Macquarie Bank to join a new Community Partnerships Funds Management business.
She did not contest the 1989 election for the new Legislative Assembly, and subsequently moved to Queensland.
The Sex Discrimination Bill cuts off far more than that." She was also a strong supporter of Lindy Chamberlain, founding the National Freedom Council as a co-ordinating body for her defence, and setting up a Plea for Justice committee in the ACT.
The feature editions focus on language, linguistic experiences, and the intersections of culture and communication.
Wyatt was appointed Minister for Aged Care and Minister for Indigenous Health in the Turnbull government in January 2017, after previously serving as an assistant minister since September 2015.
The seat was created ahead of the Assembly's first election held in 1856, and was abolished when the Tasmanian parliament adopted the Hare-Clark electoral model in 1909.
The constitutional practice of an "administrator of the government" is also found within the provinces of Canada, with provincial administrators of the government assuming the functions of the office of the lieutenant governor if its holder is incapable of rendering their duties.
Balance of power within the King-in-Parliament The concept of the King-in-Parliament holding supreme legislative authority is a core tenet of the Constitution of the United Kingdom and has application in the Westminster system more generally.
The seat was created in a redistribution ahead of the 1903 state election from the southern part of West Devon and smaller parts of Devonport, and was abolished when the Tasmanian parliament adopted the Hare-Clark electoral model in 1909.
Exceptions include the invasions of Warsaw Pact countries by the Soviet and other Warsaw Pact forces, to suppress opposition to communist government: Soviet military action during the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, and the 1968 Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia.
At the outbreak of World War I, no Australian government agency was dedicated to security, intelligence or law enforcement.
This legislation sets forth a nationally consistent regulatory system for gene technology in Australia.
On 6 October 1997, he became Minister for Sport and Tourism, and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister for the Sydney 2000 Games.
Recall of deposit copies On 10 February 1999, after The Australian's revelations, the Australian Government Information Service (AusInfo), the government publisher, wrote to the deposit libraries.
Structure The department was an Australian Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for Primary Industry.
He serves as the current Chairman of the advisory board of the Australian National Computational Infrastructure (NCI), appointed in 2020 == References ==
Parry served as foundation chairman of the Independent Pricing and Regulatory Tribunal of New South Wales (IPART) for the 12 years to 2004.
With the ACT having two Senate seats, the ACT was represented in the Senate by the two former territory leaders.
Backbenchers have a microphone on their desk and merely stand to speak (unless they cannot stand), in accordance with standing order 60.
Every nation relies on a sense of community belonging, which can easily be damaged by the rapid entry of foreign people who unintentionally erode national cohesion.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements, in the Department's annual reports and on the Department's website.
She won four medals in the 1988 Seoul Paralympic Games in athletics, and competed in powerlifting from 2000 until her retirement from the sport in January 2011.
Defence and Australia's commitment to the Vietnam War was a prominent issue during the term of the Gorton government; funding for the arts was expanded, rates of pay were standardised between the men and women and the mining industry grew during the period.
Jarrod Munro Award – The memorial recognition award celebrates a volunteer's commitment and effort to the unit.
Ultimately, Labor needed a paper-thin victory in Martin's old seat of Fannie Bay to retain government with 13 of 25 seats, a one-seat majority.
In addition to its own Divisions, DIER also provided support to Private Forests Tasmania, Racing Services Tasmania, and Forest Practices Authority.
In July 2004, former senior diplomat and Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade Philip Flood who was head of the Inquiry into Australian Intelligence Agencies (also known as the Flood Report) tabled recommendations for the Australian Intelligence Community.
Under Fahour's direction, Australia Post had two consecutive years of profit growth (in FY2011 and FY2012) following steep profit declines in the preceding two years (FY2009 and FY2010), as Australian letter volumes started to decline.
The Department of Social Services (DSS) is a department of the Australian Government responsible for national policies and programs related to social welfare and social security.
The Department was created with responsibility for the manufacture and supply of munitions (armaments, ammunition, weapons, machine tools, war chemicals, radar), aircraft production and defence production planning.
The Forum was established by the Government of Canada in 1999 and currently has nine other partner governments: Australia, Brazil, Ethiopia, Germany, India, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan and Switzerland.
In 1886 Topp succeeded Andrew Harper as warden of the senate of Melbourne University, succeeded in 1890 by Thomas P.
Merger The agency merges 3 prior Department of Defence procurement groups, each responsible for a niche of acquisition.
It occupied the western half of the Hundred of Para Wirra, the eastern remainder being administered by the District Council of Mount Crawford, which was established the same day.
The influence of the House of Lords has also been significantly limited, most notably by the Parliament Acts 1911 and 1949, which allow money bills to be passed against the wishes of the House of Lords.
Australian Natives' Association Within the ANA Roberts seems to have been valued more for his business acumen than his oratory.
At this time the CES delivered almost all federally funded employment services, however over time more and more funding was allocated to ESRA to put out to tender.
References External links Walsh Report on the Electronic Frontiers Australia website Electronic Signatures in Law, Stephen Masoh (2003)
Prime ministers who were Fathers of the House Only one prime minister has held both that office and been Father of the House: John McEwen, from December 1967 until January 1968.
He says this has only become an issue because the republicans have been unable to raise other reasons to change the constitution, highlighting that it was argued nine times by the republicans in the official Yes/No booklet sent to voters in the referendum.
As such, Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser established the Office of National Assessments through the Office of National Assessments Act 1977, ensuring the ONA had statutory independence from government.
The Pacific and Papua New Guinea (PNG) were only slightly cut, while Sub-Saharan Africa was slashed by 70%, and aid to the Middle East was cut by 43%.
The electoral district of Kentish was a single-member electoral district of the Tasmanian House of Assembly.
The Australian Department of Defence, along with the Australian state and other governments, partially fund the Australian Strategic Policy Institute (ASPI), a defence and strategic policy think tank based in Canberra, Australian Capital Territory.
Winners Winners and shortlists Australian history Children's fiction Fiction Nonfiction Poetry Young adult fiction Notes References External links Official website
However, the vice-president cannot sign Executive Council documents on behalf of the Governor-General.
Comparison with other Commonwealth realms In some of the fifteen Commonwealth realms, the monarch is explicitly defined as the head of state.
He was promoted to Commander of the Order in December 1960 whilst Secretary of the Department of Supply.
In early November 2025, Burgess stated that three unidentified countries were capable of assassinating perceived political dissidents in Australia.
The agency will consist of the merged Capability Acquisition and Sustainment Group, Guided Weapons and Explosive Ordnance Group (GWEO) and the Naval Shipbuilding and Sustainment Group (NSSG).
In July 1987, Glenn was appointed Secretary of the Australian Government Department of Administrative Services, serving in that role until March 1989 when he was to become the Secretary of the Department of Industrial Relations.
A set of the photos and 500 leaflets were sent to Paris, more to Amsterdam and to branches of the Audubon Society in the USA.
Frank Forde - Deputy Leader of the Opposition and Deputy Leader of the Labor Party Senator Joe Collings - Leader of the Opposition in the Senate Senator James Cunningham - Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the Senate Hon Norman Makin - Secretary Hon.
In 1982, Galvin was appointed as a Deputy Secretary in the Department of Home Affairs and Environment.
It was based in central Tasmania in towns such as Bothwell, Hamilton and Ouse, and until 1894 included much of the West Coast before the mining districts of Zeehan and Queenstown became large enough to require their own seats.
It has since merged in 2002 with the Queensland Crime Commission to form the Crime and Misconduct Commission.
Background and early life Peter Core was schooled at the James Ruse Agricultural High School in New South Wales.
The department is focused on developing Australian taxation system, land and income tax and economic policies.
From time to time, the commission develops maintenance packages for the Rules which are submitted to the Australian Transport Council for the approval of Australia's Transport Ministers and for the ultimate adoption and roll out across the states and territories.
He worked in Singapore, Abu Dhabi, Saudi Arabia and Beijing before returning to live in Tokyo in early 2011 where he had worked in his twenties.
Her reign of 63 years and 216 days, which was longer than those of any of her predecessors, constituted the Victorian era, a period of industrial, political, scientific, and military change within the United Kingdom marked by a great expansion of the British Empire.
She first became a Liberal Party office-holder in 1973 as president of the Balmoral branch and was later elected as the chairman of the Liberal Party Convention Committee from 1981 to 1985 and as the first female president of the NSW Liberals from 1985 to 1987.
History The department was formed by way of an Administrative Arrangements Order issued on 1 June 2022.
War powers The Constitution of Australia does not contain a provision that expressly states who is responsible for committing Australia to war.
Roberts, was secretary and long-term member of the Flemington branch of the ANA, and was elected to the position of Chief President of the association in March 1899.
This initial stage would be finalised on 1 July 2026, with the creation of the combined group led by the National Armaments Director.
Fraser was appointed Official Secretary to the Governor-General of Australia on 27 June 2014, succeeding Stephen Brady.
Under the system, significant emphasis is placed on moving digitally literate job seekers away from "Employment Service Providers" towards a web based self-service obligations scheme.
From 2006 to 2010, she worked on the development and prepared for the launch of the National Indigenous Television.
Bronwyn and Alan Bishop have two daughters; Angela, an entertainment reporter for Network Ten, and Sally.
On 13 November 2024, the Federal Minister for Regional Development, local Government and Territories, Kristy McBain, announced a new governance model for the island – the Norfolk Island Assembly – and the extension of the administration period under a new administration team replacing Colreavy.
The Secretaries of the Department were Thomas Trumble (1921‑1927), Malcolm Shepherd (1927‑1937), and finally Frederick Shedden (1937‑1939).
She was named Young Australian of the Year in 1985; Australia Day Council Chairman John Newcombe described McIntyre as "an inspiration not only to the disabled but to the able bodied.
It consists of a white flag, with the national flag in canton, a large 7-pointed star, and three blue vertical bars, with a red border overall.
Description The portrait shows Philip in uniform with his left-hand thumb resting in his blazer pocket and, thus, is noted for giving off a mix of formal and casual appearance.
Towns and districts in Australia which subscribed twice their quota of funds to the Commonwealth Government's Seventh War Loan in 1918 were presented with the Honour Flag.
The 2018 Australian federal budget indicated that the Robodebt data matching scheme would be extended into 2021 with the aim of recovering an additional A$373 million from welfare recipients.
Unedited versions of legislation taken from the Federal Register of Legislation are able to be held as "authorised versions" of such legislation, and are admissible to court.
The Bankstown Observer, a free weekly newspaper distributed throughout areas of suburban Sydney that included the Reid electorate, was owned by Raymond Edward Fitzpatrick, a Bankstown businessman and political rival of Morgan.
Early life Watts was born in the village of Sallins, County Kildare Ireland to Charles Watts and his wife Margaret (née Boyse).
He entered the role at a time of significant change, with the Minister for Industrial Relations Laurie Brereton planning a major re-write of the Industrial Relations Act.
He assumed the portfolios as Minister for Veterans' Affairs, Minister Assisting the Prime Minister for the Centenary of ANZAC and Special Minister of State on 18 September 2013, but was replaced in the First Turnbull Ministry when Malcolm Turnbull replaced Tony Abbott as prime minister.
A number of editions were published including versions adapted to the law of Australia and New Zealand.
The Isaacs appointment An important change in the relationship between the Sovereign and the Australian government and the Governor-General of Australia was marked by the appointment of Sir Isaac Isaacs as Governor-General.
Such data is usually transferred only after meeting local privacy or data protection laws, such as giving the user notice of how the information will be used, and obtaining their consent.
In addition to these changes, the controversial "Job Search Effort" mutual obligations work test, in which job seekers were required to apply for 20 jobs a month, was replaced with the "Points Based Activation System".
The List of Overseas Places of Historic Significance to Australia (LOPHSA) is a list of sites outside Australian jurisdiction deemed to be of outstanding historic significance to Australia.
The Executive Group (Senior Management Team) was made up of the Secretary, Deputy Secretaries, and the General Manager Corporate Services.
In South East Queensland, the Commission established a regional water grid known as the SEQ Water Grid and the Western Corridor Recycled Water Project.
The debate surrounded a skills shortage, the housing crisis and a growing awareness among Australian people for the benefits of immigration.
Unlike the governors, who are appointed by the sovereign on advice of the premier, the administrator is appointed by the governor-general on advice of the prime minister after consultation with the chief minister.
They also provide and develop invaluable comparative international experiences supporting both the development of solutions to multilevel governance challenges, and the overall body of knowledge in the field.
Yarra Valley Water owns and maintains over 10,400km of water mains and over 10,300km of sewer mains.
The Commonwealth Journal of Local Governance is a journal published by the Commonwealth Local Government Forum and the UTS Centre for Local Government (University of Technology, Sydney).
He has held positions as Director of the WA Office of Aboriginal Health as well as a similar post with NSW Health.
He entered parliament in April 1995 in a Wentworth by-election after Dr John Hewson vacated the seat when he retired from politics after being dumped from the Downer Shadow Cabinet and not reinstated into Howard's.
The Frontbench of John Curtin was the federal Australian Labor Party frontbench from October 1, 1935 until Curtin's death on July 5, 1945.
In 1980 Neville Wran, the Premier of New South Wales, announced his intention to introduce a bill that would require the Queen to be advised by Australian state ministers alone on matters concerning the governance of that state.
He served as Managing Director of the Rural Industries Research and Development Corporation from 1996 to 2002 and afterwards became Chief Executive Officer of the Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research.
The King-in-Council or the Queen-in-Council, depending on the gender of the reigning monarch, is a constitutional term in a number of states.
The Forum is concerned with the contribution that multi-level government can make to democracy building and democratic consolidation.
3 February 1961 – 3 August 1961; General Sir Dallas Brooks, Governor of Victoria since October 1949, ascended to the position by the power of his dormant commission after the death of The Viscount Dunrossil.
Roberts described himself as a Liberal, but his opinions tended to the conservative side of politics.
To become an accredited specialist, a solicitor must meet certain requirements and go through various examination stages, testing their skills and knowledge in the specific area of the law that they are competent in.
On 13 May 2025, the National Disability Insurance Scheme and Foundational Supports were transferred from the department to the newly renamed Department of Health, Disability and Ageing, and housing, rental and homelessness policy were transferred from the department to the Treasury.
The boundaries and names of the suburbs were further stabilised when postcodes were introduced to Australia in 1967.
He also recommended that relations between ASIO and State and Territory police forces be regulated by arrangements between governments.
However, other than fuel trains to Alice Springs and mineral unit trains, freight traffic has been all-through on the post-2004 standard-gauge route.
Once a solicitor fulfils the requirements, they are entitled to use the prestigious title of accredited specialist after their name to differentiate themselves as experts in that area of law.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements, in the department's annual reports and on the Department's website.
This includes the initial assessment of regulatory matters, ASQA’s extensive audit program and the growing focus on investigations and enforcement action in serious cases.
Prior to his working at the Bureau of Meteorology, Ayers was Chief of Marine and Atmospheric Research at the CSIRO, where he had worked since 1975.
The water distributed by Yarra Valley Water is supplied by Melbourne Water, as is the infrastructure.
The Duke of Cornwall and York, May 9, 1901, more commonly known in Australia as The Big Picture, is a 1903 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts.
He was the Minister for International Development and the Pacific in the Morrison government from December 2020 to May 2022, and previously served as an assistant minister in the Morrison and Turnbull governments since 2016.
The Senior Advisory Group (SAG) is co-chaired by Professor Tom Calma , Chancellor of the University of Canberra, and Professor Dr Marcia Langton, Associate Provost at the University of Melbourne, and as of October 2019 comprised a total of 20 leaders and experts from across the country.
The Supreme Court ultimately resolved the matter in Brown's favour, and a new seat, Montagu, was created which Urquhart stood for and won.
The electoral district of East Launceston, sometimes referred to as Launceston East, was a single-member electoral district of the Tasmanian House of Assembly.
Blainey asserts that the preferential treatment of Asian immigrants arose partly from a sense of guilt over the Vietnam War, but it also reflected Canberra's misguided view that more trade with Asian countries would come with a larger Asian population.
The Department of Defence was an Australian government department that existed between December 1921 and November 1939.
When it was established, the department was responsible for Naval, Army and Air Defence matters, and ran a number of factories for munitions, small arms, cordite and clothing etc.
The Mount Gould Range and the present-day Warren Conservation Park form what was once the boundary between Para Wirra and Mount Crawford.
The amendment would effectively give same-sex couples the legal right to access gestational surrogacy.
The Department of Immigration was an Australian government department that existed between July 1945 and June 1974.
On 18 March 2020, a human biosecurity emergency was declared in Australia owing to the risks to human health posed by the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic, after the NSC had met the previous day.
He was subsequently awarded the Military Cross for "conspicuous gallantry during a raid on the enemy's trenches" showing "great coolness and courage".
Bega Valley County Council was a county council in the Australian state of New South Wales, responsible for electricity distribution.
The Department of Industry, Innovation, Science, Research and Tertiary Education was an Australian government department that existed between December 2011 and March 2013.
It's up to the government of the day to decide whether to accept that analysis or whether to reject that analysis.
In the absence of both a governor and lieutenant-governor, the chief of the state's supreme court or the next most senior puisne judge, traditionally holding, ex officio, the position of lieutenant-governor, assumes their position as head of the executive until a governor is appointed.
The Department of Housing was an Australian government department with responsibility for housing, including the administration of housing schemes and grants that existed between December 1963 and November 1973.
Greg Ayers is an Australian atmospheric scientist and was Director of the Australian Bureau of Meteorology from March 2009 until February 2012, when he resigned due to ill health.
The act became law on 14 December 1909, the day after the Seat of Government Acceptance Act 1909 had been passed by the Commonwealth government.
This is not the conventional usage of "nuclear umbrella", but a rhetorical device promoting active defense over the nuclear deterrence the conventional "nuclear umbrella" depends upon.
Awards While Deputy Secretary of the Defence Production Department in January 1957, Knott was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire.
The Prime Ministers' Corridor of Oaks is located at Faulconbridge, New South Wales, 75 km from Sydney and 40 minutes from Katoomba.
One notable example of their use was by Governor-General Sir John Kerr during the Australian constitutional crisis of 1975.
Northern Territory Country Party member Sam Calder supported the Territory Senators legislation, though he opposed the ACT being given added representation.
The eastern boundary the District Council of Munno Para East (Main North Road) and western boundary was Port Wakefield Road.
In 1924 he became editor of The Spinner, a poetry magazine financed by Edward Vidler which published works by Mary Gilmore, Shaw Neilson and Marie Pitt.
John Howard wrote in 2010 that the "personal animosity which flowed from the manner of Gorton's removal as prime minister was the most intense that I have ever seen in politics.
The head office of the department is located in the Australian Capital Territory suburb of Greenway.
He was the Official Secretary to the Governor-General of Australia, General Sir Peter Cosgrove, from June 2014 to August 2018.
Career In 1993 Core was appointed Secretary of the Department of Industrial Relations, promoted from his role as a Deputy Secretary in the Department of Primary Industries and Energy.
In each category, the winning book was awarded $80,000; $5,000 was awarded to up to four shortlisted titles.
On 23 February 2013, Seselja won his pre-selection bid, and thus became one of the two official Liberal Party Senate candidates for the ACT.
A by-election was conducted for the Queensland Legislative Assembly seat of Toowoomba South on 16 July 2016, following the 29 April resignation of LNP MP John McVeigh.
The National Intelligence Coordination Committee (NICC) is a peak intergovernmental officials-level body of the Government of Australia responsible for the development and co-ordination of the Australian Intelligence Community in accordance with the National Security Committee of Cabinet.
He was once Australia's highest-paid public servant, receiving a total salary package of $5.6 million (including a $1.2 million bonus) in 2016.
In 1888–89 Topp and John Main, senior inspector of Victorian schools, undertook a comparison of Victorian teaching methods with those of New South Wales and South Australia, which report was published in 1889.
Structure The department was an Australian Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations.
The Department of Climate Change was an Australian Government department that existed between 2007 and 2010.
The following year, Core's appointment was one of six secretary appointments terminated following the election of the Howard government.
In 1869 he was appointed assistant inspector of schools under G(eorge) Wilson Brown and in 1873 was appointed an inspector for the new department of education.
He also completed further studies at Sydney Teachers' College (1908–09) and the University of Sydney (1911–13; part-time).
Page is listed among those who were aboard the unmarked prisoner of war ship Montevideo Maru when it was torpedoed and sunk by an American submarine on 1 July 1942.
Glenn was appointed Commissioner of the Public Service Board as in 1984, having been with the Board since 1958 and previously having served as Deputy Commissioner starting in 1977.
He was also one of the strong proponents of Federation of the Australian colonies working closely with Isaacs, Peacock, Deakin and Salmon in pursuing the success of the two public votes leading to the formation of the Commonwealth of Australia.
On the day after the first anniversary of Brown's death, Victoria was informed by telegram that her youngest son, Leopold, had died in Cannes.
The Norfolk Island Regional Council was formally established on 1 July 2016 and, unlike most local government bodies in Australia, delivers many Commonwealth services to residents in addition to local-level services such as land planning and emergency management.
Career Prior to entering Parliament, Wyatt served as senior public servant in the fields of Aboriginal health and education.
Fraser then advised Governor-General Sir Zelman Cowen not to include Sheil in the ministry—advice that Cowen was required by convention to follow.
The deployment of Blue Peacock UK nuclear land mines to West German territory was abandoned as too provocative.
See also Law Council of Australia Federal Circuit Court of Australia Law of Australia Australian Law Reform Commission New South Wales Law Reform Commission References External links Legal Services in Australia
It also found that the government had lacked rigour and ignored early warnings, and that the govennment was still withholding critical information about the Income Compliance Program.
To be given the title "accredited specialist", is the highest accreditation attainable as a solicitor in Australia.
The Seat of Government Surrender Act 1909 is an act of the New South Wales Parliament which completed the transfer of land from New South Wales to establish the Federal Capital Territory as the seat of Commonwealth government.
Zdenko Matthew "Zed" Seselja (Croatian: [zdeŋko seseʎa]; born 27 March 1977) is an Australian politician who was a Senator for the Australian Capital Territory from 2013 to 2022, representing the Liberal Party.
Yarra Valley Water is a Victorian Government-owned retail water corporation and the largest of the three water corporations that service metropolitan Melbourne.
The biographer Humphrey McQueen claims the picture gave Roberts "an inflated idea of [his] own importance".
Walters died at his home on Tennyson Street in St Kilda, Melbourne on 17 March 1929 after 18 months of illness.
History The Australian Treasury was established in Melbourne in January 1901, after the federation of the six Australian colonies.
The first woman to hold the post in Alice Springs as a welfare officer, Turner worked to build bridges between the Aboriginal community and the government, focusing on programs for at-risk youth and community health and welfare initiatives.
The APLC undertakes and coordinates activities when species migrate or have the potential to migrate across state borders and subsequently cause damage to agriculture in more than one of the member states.
In his 2010 Memoir, Lazarus Rising, long serving Liberal Prime Minister John Howard wrote that Gorton was the first person to win the leadership of an Australian party "through the force of his television appearances".
In Australia, the title Administrator, or more fully Administrator of the Government, has several uses.
Wienholt retired due to ill health early into his term at the Department of Social Security, he had suffered a heart attack in April 1973.
However, the implications for ASIO of the changes in the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe are more far-reaching than for the other agencies.
See also Agriculture in Australia References External links Australian Plague Locust Commission "Locusts" (PDF).
The two departments merged in 1921 to form the second Department of Defence, regarded as a separate body.
Whitlam further commented that "at long last, after sustained stonewalling and filibustering, the parliament can proceed to enact these essential parts of the government's program." Snedden, on the other hand, was more cynical, stating "this is indeed an historic occasion.
Following the review, Emergency Services minister Corey Wingard reported to Adelaide newspaper, The Advertiser, that he accepts all findings.
The Criminal Justice Commission was established in 1989 by the Queensland Criminal Justice Act 1989, following widespread corruption amongst high-level Queensland politicians and police officers being uncovered in the Fitzgerald Inquiry.
Once on the list the provisions of the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 apply.
In Commonwealth realms that are federations, the concept of the King in parliament applies within that specific parliament only, as each sub-national parliament is considered separate and distinct from each other and from the federal parliaments (such as Australian states or the Canadian provinces).
John Curtin became Leader of the Opposition upon his election as leader of the Australian Labor Party on October 1, 1935.
Individual contributors were awarded a certificate known as a House Badge, which featured an illustration of the Honour Flag without the bars and star.
John Brown died 10 days after her accident, and to the consternation of her private secretary, Sir Henry Ponsonby, Victoria began work on a eulogistic biography of Brown.
Motivations and concerns One of the first moves towards data localization occurred in 2005 when the Government of Kazakhstan passed a law for all ".kz" domains to be run domestically (with later exceptions for Google).
The Department of Primary Industry was an Australian government department that existed between December 1975 and July 1987.
He continued to paint but not with the desire to be rich and famous." The work itself was considered a worthy record of the event but not a masterpiece.
He was later appointed as the Secretary of the Department of Supply in 1951 to oversee research and development.
In 1974 he led the working group that produced the report on The Principles of Rural Policy in Australia in 1974 which attracted attention from the academic and policy community at the time.
A more practical objection was the distance to the main Sydney-Melbourne railway line and the expense involved in constructing a spur to the proposed capital.
The Norfolk Island Regional Council is the local government body of Norfolk Island, an island territory of Australia in the south Pacific Ocean.
The eligibility criteria were extended to include e-books, and wordless picture books were eligible in the children's fiction category.
Steven Ciobo became the first Minister for International Development and the Pacific, followed by Concetta Fierravanti-Wells six months later.
The cost of living crisis led to the Federal Government to signal changes to the immigration system in December 2023, with the Opposition arguing immigration leading to a "big Australia" was responsible for housing pressures.
The Royal Society prepared five sets of the 7 photographs mounted and printed 42cm x 55cm (roughly an A2 sheet).
The ACT House of Assembly was abolished in 1986 in preparation for electoral reforms that would eventually result in self-government and the creation of the current ACT Legislative Assembly.
RAAF in Korea The Royal Australian Air Force was heavily involved in the Pacific War during World War II.
Ironically, the Asian countries that Australia is too afraid to "offend" have no hesitation in using that right to retain their current ethnic compositions.
He also served as President of the RAOU 1913–1914 as well as organising ornithological expeditions to the Bass Strait islands and to central and northern Australia.
References Seat of Government Act 1904 (Cth) State Records of New South Wales A Guide to NSW State Archives relating to Federation
Gorton had taken the senior Cabinet position of Minister for Defence but was forced to resign from Cabinet in August 1971, after McMahon accused him of breaching Cabinet solidarity.
Defence Committee The Defence Committee is the primary decision-making committee in the Department of Defence, supported by six subordinate committees, groups and boards.
As of 1954, its electricity network had still not yet been connected to the statewide electricity grid.
He conceived the idea of an avenue of oak trees to be planted by all the Prime Ministers of Australia or their nearest surviving relative.
The Australian Consulate-General in Surabaya (Indonesian: Konsulat Jenderal Australia di Surabaya) represents the Commonwealth of Australia in Surabaya, the second most populous city in Indonesia.
They were married on 16 January 1823, although the Macquaries were away on an eight-month tour of Europe at the time.
When Annabelle Rankin was appointed the Minister of the department in 1966 she became the first woman to administer an Australian government department.
History The council was established on 27 April 1854, bringing local government to the western half of the Hundred of Munno Para, the District Council of Munno Para East having been formed the year before.
See also History of the Australian Capital Territory References National Archives of Australia - Seat of Government Surrender Act 1909
The Office of the Gene Technology Regulator supports the Gene Technology Regulator, and is a part of the Australian Government Department of Health and Ageing.
He was educated at Monash University, where he obtained a Bachelor of Science (with honours) and a PhD.
The Seat of Government Act 1904 was an Act of the Parliament of Australia that provided that the "seat of government of the Commonwealth" (i.e., the national capital) should be within 17 miles (27 km) of Dalgety, New South Wales.
The revelation that some residents at Melbourne's Riverside Private Nursing Home had suffered blistering after being bathed in a weak kerosene solution as a cure for scabies led to a national outcry over the standards of care maintained by Bishop's department.
The inquiry had a number of findings and made a number of recommendations, including: "That a lack of procedural fairness is evident in every stage of the program, which should be put on hold until all procedural fairness flaws are addressed".
At the time, the APS recognized only twenty government positions were suited for Aboriginal people and Turner developed strategies to overcome systemic biases to improve funding and opportunity for Aboriginal Australians.
Background and early career Henderson was born in Croix-Chapeau, France, where his father was serving with the United States military.
Since his retirement in 1996, Harris has continued research on China's foreign policy and global relationships as an Emeritus Professor at the Australian National University.
Hocking was adopted as a baby and raised in country South Australia in what the Australian Women's Register describes as a "dysfunctional home", where she "experienced difficult and stressful formative years".
Henry Latimer Walters (24 January 1868 – 17 March 1929) was a senior Australian public servant, best known for his time as head of the Department of Works and Railways.
In December 2022, she became a parliamentary secretary to Tony Buti, the minister for education, aboriginal affairs, and citizenship and multicultural interests.
In the July 2020 hearing, Kathryn Campbell (former head of Services Australia) denied that the scheme had led to welfare recipients suiciding after receiving debt notices, despite allegations from Centrelink staff and the family members of welfare recipients who took their own lives.
"Sustainable Australia - Sustainable Communities: A Sustainable Population Strategy for Australia" (PDF).
Structure The Department was a Commonwealth Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for Housing.
The ratings were calculated using a regression model that looked at the number of jobs or outcomes that a site achieved.
Awards Paterson was appointed an Officer of the Order of Australia in 2007 for service to business and industry through policy development and economic research.
OPC has around 40 publishing staff who develop and operate the Federal Register of Legislation website including managing the registration of new legislation, preparing compilations of Commonwealth legislation and providing editorial services for OPC drafted legislation.
It is divided into five wards: Torrens, Payneham, West Norwood/Kent Town, Kensington (each electing two councillors), and Maylands/Trinity (three councillors).
Current activity The National Transport Commission is charged with maintaining the Australian Road Rules.
It included the rural townships of Virginia, Smithfield, Penfield, Angle Vale, Salisbury North and Gawler Blocks, the latter being severed by the District Council of Gawler South in 1899 and later merged with the Corporate Town of Gawler.
He led the Canberra Liberals to their highest-ever number of seats, claiming eight in the seventeen-member ACT Legislative Assembly.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements and in the Department's annual reports.
The Australian Prime Minister's Literary Awards (PMLA) were announced at the end of 2007 by the incoming First Rudd ministry following the 2007 election.
In 2017 Fahour was appointed an Officer of the Order of Australia for distinguished service to business, particularly in the area of postal communications, to the banking and investment sectors, and as a supporter of improved multicultural relations.
1940s to 1996 By the 1940s the number of suburbs was becoming a problem, so the Port Adelaide Council moved to reduce the number of local district areas to 18, in 1945.
She lectured at the Canberra Technical College, and managed Canberra's first secretarial agency from 1957 to 1967, originally running it out of her home.
Partly because new electoral boundaries had been gazetted just days before the writs were issued, most of the Labor members elected in the massive Labor landslide of 2005 were unable to connect with their new constituents.
Under the conventions of the Westminster system, the governor-general's powers are almost always exercised on the advice of the prime minister or other ministers of the Crown.
List The List of Overseas Places of Historic Significance to Australia comprises the following sites: See also Australian National Heritage List Commonwealth Heritage List Little Australia == References ==
Chief Officer’s Commendation This certificate recognises volunteers committed to the organisation as recognised by the chief officer.
The Committee produced a report recommending substantial regulation of currently unregistered health practitioners, a public awareness campaign, and strict rules on the display of legitimate health qualifications.
This gives the Minister sweeping powers, including imposing restrictions or preventing the movement of people and goods between specified places, and evacuations.
It was abolished by the County Districts Reconstitution Act 1979, which merged it into Illawarra County Council.
The establishment of the APLC allowed for the first use of remotely sensed data to forecast locust populations in Australia.
The Coalition had governed since 1949, and the Liberal Party had replaced the retiring Robert Menzies with Holt in January 1966.
Awards Walters was made a Companion of the Imperial Service Order for his services as Secretary of the Commonwealth Works Department in June 1928.
See also Air Force (newspaper) Army (newspaper) Navy News (Australia) External links Official Site Archived 16 June 2023 at the Wayback Machine == References ==
These include: Edmund Barton (Victoria and Edward VII) Andrew Fisher (Edward VII and George V) Robert Menzies (George VI and Elizabeth II) Anthony Albanese (Elizabeth II and Charles III) Queen Elizabeth II had by far the greatest number of prime ministers serve her during her reign, being 16.
Other In December 1970 Gorton announced that the previous 50-year public access rule for classified cabinet documents would be reduced to 30 years.
Early life Patricia Ann Turner was born in 1952, in Alice Springs, Northern Territory, Australia, to Emma and Alec Turner.
At the time of its creation, the Munno Para West council area was bounded on the south by the Little Para River (which derives its name from the Kaurna term pari, meaning "stream of flowing water") and on the north by the Gawler River.
Over the years, the Forum has expanded the focus of its work to include not only established federal countries but also countries in post-conflict situations adopting federal forms of governance and those involved in processes of devolution and decentralization.
He was head of Industrial Relations until March 1992, In 1995, Glenn was appointed Chair of the ACT Bushfire Task Force, responsible for reviewing practices for bushfire fuel management in the ACT and for recommending appropriate policies and practices for future bushfire fuel management.
Old Parliament House After World War I the Federal Capital Advisory Committee was established to prepare Canberra to be the seat of government, including the construction of a Parliament House.
Impact on observers The case left an "indelible impression" on Anthony Mason, junior counsel for Fitzpatrick and later Chief Justice of the High Court of Australia.
Appointed the commanding officer of the 6th Division in April 1943 and oversaw the division's training on the Atherton Tableland, Queensland.
The executive head of the department, who leads it on a day-to-day basis, independent of a change of government, is the Secretary of the Department of Defence (SECDEF), currently Greg Moriarty.
Broinowski succeeded as clerk of the Senate on 1 January 1939, where he had "a reputation as a fierce defender of the dignity and forms of the Senate" and was "uncomfortable with the executive's increasing domination of Parliament".
Other interests Topp was a keen naturalist, joining the Field Naturalists Club of Victoria in 1883, and president in 1889–90.
The contract initially was for 650 guineas but this was increased to 1000 guineas when the scope of the work was realised.
History It was established on 1 November 1997 with the amalgamation of the City of Kensington and Norwood, the City of Payneham and the Town of St Peters.
References External links Official website Gene Technology Act 2000 (Archived 25 April 2024 at the Wayback Machine)
Career Between 1996 and 2002 Paterson was head of the Australian Chamber of Commerce and Industry.During 1998 – 2002 Paterson was also the Director of the Australian National Training Authority (ANTA) Board.
Loosely based on research undertaken toward his doctoral thesis, the book argues that people with progressive politics must re-engage with ideas of patriotism and national identity, which Soutphommasane claims were surrendered to the right during the Prime Ministership of John Howard.
He was appointed under-secretary in 1894 and a Public Service Commissioner following the retirement of A.
He died at his home in Lindfield on 16 August 1959, due to "cardio-vascular degeneration and cerebral arteriosclerosis".
Parry served as chairman of First State Super, Chairman of the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO).
The Queensland Water Commission (QWC) is a defunct Queensland Government agency established to develop long term water supply strategies.
In 1985 he began working for the Northern Territory government as a computer operator, was self-employed as a computer analyst in Britain from 1991 to 1992 and returned to work for the Northern Territory government in 1993.
In practice, decisions made by the King-in-Council are almost always the formal approval to decisions made by the cabinet, a subcommittee of the privy or executive council that includes the senior ministers of the Crown and often meets without the monarch or his local representative present.
It also conducts educational outreach and training courses for landowners, businesses, and local governments, including international consulting work in Asia, Africa and South America.
He worked as an apprentice marine fitter in Southampton before emigrating to Australia in 1982, where he worked as an underground fitter at the zinc mines in Rosebery, Tasmania.
See also List of Australian flags References External links The Honour Flag (Australia) at Flags of the World
His father, also called Pat Galvin, was an Australian Labor Party member of the House of Representatives.
Life and career Graham Glenn joined the Commonwealth public service in 1950 as a cadet in the Department of Trade and Customs.
When the Coalition took government at the 1996 election, Thomson was made Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
In December 2021, the elected council was dismissed and an administrator, Michael Colreavy was appointed.
The inquiry's final report informs a significant amount of transport policy in New South Wales, including the corporatisation of Sydney Ferries, the reform of CountryLink, and reforms to the fare structure.
The Liberal and Country parties focused their campaign on government mismanagement and the state of the economy.
The Department of Infrastructure, Energy and Resources (DIER) was the former name of the Tasmanian Government Department of State Growth.
The City of Port Adelaide was a local government area of South Australia centred at the port of Adelaide from 1855 to 1996.
Hilda died suddenly on 14 September 1944; the couple had a child aged 11 months at the time of Hilda's death.
Each portfolio is led by one or more government ministers who are members of the federal parliament, appointed by the governor-general on the advice of the prime minister.
The department was divided into divisions including a Corporate Services Division and the Office of the Secretary.
On that episode, they called it "Correction Time." The first time it was known as "Listener Mail" was on January 8, 2009, an episode that was inspired by a listener's email.
The podcast covered a range of topics ranging from information overload and digital clutter, to sexting, and the eavesdropping capabilities of our gadgets.
Guest appearances The show has regularly interviewed and has guest appearances of business executives, founders, and celebrities.
After the change of format in 2022, with the exception of Apodaca's welcome the catchphrases have mostly been dropped, with Campbell deciding to save "Welcome Back Bucket" for special occasions.
In another video segment, Internet Roundup, Chuck and Josh highlighted a couple of posts found deep in the web that they found interesting, entreating or amusing.
In January 2022, the podcast changed formats to shift away from intentionally playing bad games, in part to improve the experience for guests and the hosts.
Around the same time, the people responsible for filming the shows, the Pixel Corps and their leader, Alex Lindsay became more involved with the show, with many also contributing.
A sponsorship deal with America Online was announced on July 4, 2005, following the server demand that resulted from the release of iTunes 4.9's built-in podcasting directory.
Her television acting credits include guest appearances on Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, Criminal Minds, The Bold and the Beautiful and The Vampire Diaries.
Designing with Web Standards reiterates many of the arguments made by the Web Standards Project to highlight the benefits of standards-compliant web design.
Leo Laporte (; born November 29, 1956) is the former host of The Tech Guy weekly radio show and founder of TWiT.tv, an Internet podcast network focusing on technology.
Career Jeffrey Zeldman briefly worked as a reporter for The Washington Post and ten years as an advertising copywriter before turning to web design in 1995.
As of January 2024, TED Radio Hour has earned 4 wins and 2 nominations, which includes: The Webby Awards 2018 Winner for Best Science and Education Podcasts (General Series).
Both Goldman and Dzotsi left the show in 2022 with the final episode released on June 23 of that year.
Aggregators have all three of the following characteristics: direct relationship with users; zero marginal costs for serving users; and demand-driven multi-sided networks with decreasing acquisition costs.
The talks (all of which have been previously recorded and released by TED) are supplemented by follow-up interviews with the speaker, original reporting and other segments that bring the ideas to life.
Windows Metafile controversy In January 2006, Steve Gibson accused Microsoft of intentionally putting a backdoor into the Windows Metafile processing code in Windows 2000 and Windows XP.
In later episodes the question would be posed by the merchant from Resident Evil 4, voiced by Campbell.
Speakers, in addition to offering informative content, must have made major contributions to web design or development in order to qualify to speak at the event.
Format Episodes generally consist of one-on-one interviews conducted by Bret Kugelmass, Jadwiga Najder, Olubunmi Olajide, or Naomi Senehi with guests who are experts in nuclear energy.
In May 2019, Recode was integrated into Vox Media's flagship website, Vox, becoming the column Recode by Vox.
Co-hosts include frequent collaborators Brian Ibbott from Coverville, Brian Dunaway from Comics Coast to Coast, and Randy Jordan (formerly of The Instance).
They began producing episodes for Wow in the World together and the podcast debuted on May 15, 2017.
The logo design originated from a traditional logic gate symbol of an "AND gate" turned on its side.
Bibliography Laporte has written technology-oriented books including: He has published a yearly series of technology almanacs: Laporte announced in October 2006 that he would not renew his contract with Que Publishing, and had retired from publishing books.
Endless Thread is a podcast from Boston-based WBUR, in partnership with Reddit, that focuses on stories relating to Reddit posts.
The full set is available via YouTube and the Internet Archive References External links Official website Ubuntu Podcast's channel on YouTube Archive of all episodes
In 2016, Zeldman's business association with Happy Cog ended, and he launched an independent design consultancy called Studio Zeldman.
Topics covered ranged from racism on Facebook, to a neuroscientist's view on information overload, to a piece by performance artist Marina Abramović which involved an audience sitting in total silence wearing noise-canceling headphones for 30 minutes before a live performance of J.S.
As the hosts encourage their audience to watch the material prior to the episode, they attempt to focus on items available via streaming media, primarily Netflix.
Most releases of the show were licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial No-Derivatives licence, but shows released after December 2007 are under the Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported licence.
On March 6, 2023, Vox media announced that in order to make the various Vox sub brands less confusing to its readers, it was retiring Recode brand but would continue its mission to explain complex issues around technology to its readers under the unified Vox brand.
Julian Feeld has told Wired that QAnon is "a colorful expression of a broader and more worrying global trend towards 'information warfare' in the service of those seeking to consolidate capital and power".
Starting in November 2021, Thompson began hosting a weekly headline podcast entitled Plain English, part of The Ringer Podcast Network.
Ethics of XR Bye is an advocate for discourse around the ethics and moral dilemmas presented by VR and AR.
When Ezarik first moved to Los Angeles, she was managed by Richard Frias who also manages YouTube celebrities HappySlip and KevJumba, but according to a post on Ezarik's alternate Twitter account she was unmanaged and earned money by appearing at conferences and in online promotional spots.
Production For the first 40 episodes, Rhysider was responsible for all of the research, writing, narrating, editing, sound design, publishing, marketing, and logistics.
In a post explaining the move, he cited a desire for more editorial freedom and to write for himself after almost two decades at a single publication.
Later on, due to a passionate cult following, Rhysider was able to enlist the help of additional writers, researchers, editors, and graphic designers.
This includes science, intellectual property, venture capital, bioenterprise finance, bioenterprise law, strategic market insights, regulatory expertise, biostrategic media relations, bioethics, bioenterprise information systems, social policy and multinational expertise.
Tech News Today was the recipient of the 2012 International Academy of Web Television award for Best News Web Series.
In January 2014, Zeis was also named Editor-in-Chief of Smartwatch Fans, a fan site that was focused purely on smartwatches and wearable devices.
When Sites asked her to turn off her lifecasting equipment later in the interview, he noted that "at once the conversation seemed more relaxed and natural," and she discussed the difficulty of having people watching and publicly judging her all day.
In 2016, she was an advisor to Arnold Schwarzenegger on the reality competition series The New Celebrity Apprentice.
Meanwhile, Current Geek Weekly is a weekly discussion of geek culture stories and the companion podcast to the Current Geek podcasts still produced by Frogpants Studios.
Early life Jeffrey Zeldman was born on January 12, 1955, in Queens, New York, to the robotics engineer Maurice Zeldman and his wife Phyllis Sylvia Zeldman.
Sponsors of the network include Ford, Audible, Lantronix, Squarespace, Hulu, Rackspace, Hover, Carbonite, Stamps.com and more.
By June 2009, she had 590,000 Twitter followers, 94,000 subscribers to the iJustine YouTube channel, and 25,000 Facebook fans.
Launched in October 2017, episodes average around 30 minutes to an hour, each covering a single topic through original interviews, audio footage, and Rhysider's narration.
LugRadio was a British podcast on the topic of Linux and events in the free and open source software communities, as well as coverage of technology, digital rights and politics.
Photocastnetwork The podcast is also the flagship show of the Photocast Network, a community of podcasters producing content related to photography.
In 2008, Laporte did a voice narration of Andrew Lang's fable The True History of Little Golden-hood from Audible (Amazon), a sponsor.
In a variation on this segment called "Sports, Sports, Sports", Blumberg instead explains sports-related tweets to Vogt and Goldman.
During the first few years TWiT episodes were made available in a variety of file formats for individual download or RSS subscription.
In September 2008, Revision3 started Revision3 Beta, a "talent-farming" sub-network of unofficial shows headed by Martin Sargent.
Format and distribution Waveform episodes are typically released on a weekly schedule and range from approximately 45 to 130 minutes in length, with monthly bonus episodes.
Wow in the World is a children's podcast hosted by children's media and audio veterans Guy Raz and Mindy Thomas.
Thomas Andrew Merritt (born June 28, 1970) is an American technology journalist, writer, and broadcaster best known as the host of several podcasts.
The change was marked by the omission of NPR's name in the show's opening audio sequence after the tagline, "You're listening to Radiolab...from WNYC." Horne left RadioLab in 2015, and Krulwich retired as co-host in February 2020.
Production Linux Outlaws was recorded simultaneously by the presenters in their respective homes – Hanover and Merseyside, England – and published in both the Ogg Vorbis and MP3 formats.
The show was based in the United Kingdom, and had a community forum as well as multiple social network accounts dedicated to fostering inter-communication among fans.
The podcast initially launched as an audio-only show distributed on platforms including Apple Podcasts, Spotify, and Google Podcasts.
On April 21, 2008, on the 47th episode of Systm, it was announced that Chief Engineer and co-host David Randolph had left for another job outside of Revision3.
TED Radio Hour is a weekly, hour-long radio program and podcast, produced as a co-production between TED (conference) and National Public Radio.
Producers In addition to Nora Young, producers included Michelle Parise, Adam Killick, Kent Hoffman Dan Misener, Elizabeth Bowie and Carma Jolly.
I've been converted." In 1985, following Steve Jobs leaving Apple, Dvorak wrote, "Maybe when the smoke clears, we will have heard the last of Steve Jobs as guru, seer, visionary and hapless victim too ...
Though the audio production company Defacto Sound, which is owned by Taylor, is the production headquarters for Twenty Thousand Hertz, he has said that the podcast is not intended as content marketing.
Episodes typically include discussion of recent technology news, analysis of consumer electronics products, and recurring segments such as trivia games or typing challenges at the end of episodes.
The name was inspired by the audience communicating to Zomorodi that they listen to the show because they are interested in the "purposeful use of technology." Zomorodi released a book entitled "Bored and Brilliant: How Spacing Out Can Unlock Your Most Productive and Creative Self" with St.
Radio and television From December 1977 to May 1998, Laporte hosted newstalk and interview shows on KGO, KSFO, and KNBR in San Francisco.
Following the August 6, 2009, Twitter Denial-of-service attack Ezarik was featured in The Wall Street Journal describing her coping mechanisms, such as repeatedly tapping the F5 function key (the refresh button), for Twitter outages.
An annual segment, Email Debt Forgiveness Day, created an annual holiday on April 30 inviting listeners to send responses to old emails no matter how overdue.
LugRadio Live LugRadio Live was an annual event organised by the LugRadio team and held in Wolverhampton.
On Tech Nation, Gunn's focus has always been on the societal impact of technology and science, understanding the nature of innovation, and giving everyday listeners a sense of how to deal with the technological tsunami around them.
Annie Kelly acts as the podcast's United Kingdom correspondent and joined the podcast as the conspiracy theory spread from the United States to other countries, such as when it was accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Diggnation (rebooted) has also featured special guests: Episode 3: Glenn McElhose Episode 11: Jason Calacanis, Chris Sacca, Tim Ferriss, and Alexis Ohanian Episode 13: Doctor Tiki and Lala of Tiki Bar TV Episode 14: Digg Advisor Jayci Hayes Awards 2006: Podcast Award for best technology podcast.
On May 18, 2022, it was announced that hosts Dzotsi and Goldman were leaving the show and the current iteration of Reply All would end on June 23, 2022.
A number of episodes of the parallel BBC radio documentary series 30 Animals That Made Us Smarter were included as bonuses in the podcast feed of early episodes of series 2.
The Atlantic included the episode "Shine on, You Crazy Goldman" on their list of "The 50 Best Podcast Episodes of 2015".
Guests have included professors, business executives, politicians, diplomats, scientists, and others.
The series has Ezarik and Nguyen getting lost in various locales and solving their problems using AT&T equipment.
Usually there were three in-depth stories, each of which was separated by a clip of Creative Commons licensed music.
History The program began when Laporte recorded a one-off round-table discussion between himself, Patrick Norton, Sarah Norton, Kevin Rose, David Prager, and Roger Chang at the 2005 Macworld Expo in San Francisco.
Previous regular presenters were Matthew Revell (Seasons 1 – 4), Adrian Bradshaw (Seasons 2 – 4) and Stephen Parkes (Season 1, and the first few shows of Season 2).
In 2006, LugRadio won the award for Best Marketing Campaign at the UK Linux and Open Source Awards in London and won the award for Best Linux Podcast in the Christmas 2007 edition of Linux Format magazine.
Background In 2014, Guy Raz and Mindy Thomas had a Twitter exchanged that led to some collaborations.
It airs on the National Public Radio "NPR Now" channel at SiriusXM 122, public radio stations both nationally and internationally, and the Internet in a number of podcast syndication outlets podcast.
Throughout high school, Denson was a member of the marching band, and participated on the swim team, track, cross country, and golf.
Harford explained in a BBC interview in 2017 that his motivation for creating the show was "to paint a picture of economic change by telling the stories of the ideas, people, and tools that had far-reaching consequences".
Its books are designed to be quick reads and treat advanced topics in web design with a strong point of view.
The nomination cited its unusual social media presence, including an event where the hosts accepted phone calls from listeners for 48 hours straight.
The process of starting their company is documented in the podcast ZigZag, which is also their first production.
References External links Official website Leo Laporte at IMDb Leo Laporte in libraries (WorldCat catalog)
The scopes of the two sites were not expected to overlap with Recode's emphasis on technology industry business and The Verge's on "being a new kind of culture publication".
In 2007, Mevio hired Dvorak as vice president and Managing Editor for a new Mevio TECH channel, where he manages content from existing Mevio tech programming.
In 2019, the podcast was named the best podcast of the year by Dutch newspaper De Volkskrant and the sixth best podcast of the year by The New Yorker.
It was picked up by Business Insider, The Huffington Post, CNN, Heise, and a televised CNBC discussion segment, among others.
He appeared on Marketwatch TV and This Week in Tech, a podcast audio and now video program hosted by Leo Laporte and featuring other former TechTV personalities such as Patrick Norton, Kevin Rose, and Robert Heron.
More recently, he has hosted two podcasts: Neutral and the Accidental Tech Podcast, with John Siracusa and Casey Liss.
As of January 2023, Radiolab has earned 13 podcast industry award nominations, including 7 wins, including the 2013 People's Choice Podcast Award for Best Science and Medicine Podcast and the 2015 People's Choice Podcast Award for Best Produced Podcast.
The one-on-one discussions typically revolve around nuclear energy and related topics including political policy, climate change, and nuclear medicine.
Gunn was awarded the Public Service Award to the Individual by the National Science Board, for her contributions to the public understanding of science and engineering.
Mossberg and Swisher planned to continue their prominent, annual All Things Digital conference, which they renamed the "Code" conference and scheduled for the same time and location: late May at Terranea Resort in Rancho Palos Verdes, California.
Boiling Point, which he later narrated as an audiobook, describes a near future United States civil war.
In July 2014 he returned to The Verge as editor-in-chief, after Joshua Topolsky left the position to work at Bloomberg.
In July 2021, Friedberg announced that The Production Board raised $300 million from Alphabet, Baillie Gifford, Allen & Co., BlackRock, Koch Disruptive Technologies and Morgan Stanley's Counterpoint Global.
Additionally, upwards of 80 percent of listeners reported that the program's pace was exciting, and over 80 percent reported that the layering of interviews was engaging.
Vox Media acquired the website in May 2015 in a move that The New York Times described as a reflection of tumult in online technology journalism.
Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher founded it in January 2014, after they left Dow Jones and the similar website they had previously co-founded, All Things Digital.
At the Berkman Center for Internet & Society he leads ProjectVRM, which guides independent software development communities working on Vendor Relationship Management (VRM).
The program was formerly known as Call for Help when it was recorded in the US and Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Originally started on July 7, 2009, Fourcast had Merritt and Johnson inviting guests to discuss the future and what it might contain in a so-called virtual fireside setting.
Other early guests in 2018 included eventual Assistant Secretary of Energy for Nuclear Energy and head of the Office of Nuclear Energy, Rita Baranwal, and individuals associated with both the Idaho National Laboratory and the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory.
As of May 22, 2017, she was working for Microsoft as a Senior Cloud Developer Advocate where she, among other things, hosted This Week in Channel 9.
Each episode was originally broadcast on BBC World Service, with a subsequent broadcast on BBC Radio 4 and distribution as a BBC podcast.
The show attracted about five hundred Linux enthusiasts from many countries around the world with several travelling from as far as Europe and Australia.
Journalism Zeis graduated West Morris Mendham High School in 1997 and attended Fairleigh Dickinson University with a major in Computer Science.
Reception Charlotte Hilton Andersen wrote in Reader's Digest that the hosts "have a knack for picking science stories that kids will find fascinating".
As part of the Mobile Nations network, Smartwatch Fans was the first non-mobile site under the Mobile Nations name.
Christina Warren (born November 12, 1982), is an American developer advocate, podcaster, and writer.
Lawyers from TWiT believed this violated a spoken agreement between Leo Laporte and Twitter co-founder Evan Williams made in 2009, and infringed on TWiT's trademark.
Design agency In 1999, Zeldman founded Happy Cog, a web and interaction design studio specializing in user-and content-focused, standards-compliant design.
Rich DeMuro later appeared on the show to announce that he would take over in January with a weekly show, recorded on Saturdays, called "Rich On Tech." Laporte appeared on Friday mornings on KFI with Bill Handel, and previously on such shows as Showbiz Tonight, Live with Kelly, and World News Now.
Podcasting Zeis is best known for his hosting role on the CrackBerry.com podcast alongside Kevin Michaluk and Chris (Bla1ze) Parsons.
Discussions revolve around nuclear power as an alternative and potentially carbon-negative energy source.
The Book (Prentice Hall PTR, October, 2003) with co-authors Wendy Taylor and Chris Pirillo and his latest e-book is Inside Track 2013.
Vogt and Alex Goldman, who were the show's original hosts; they had previously hosted the technology and culture podcast TLDR for WNYC.
Episodes of Twenty Thousand Hertz have also been featured on the Radiotopia productions 99% Invisible and The Allusionist.
The podcast and its guests are broadly proponents of the proliferation of nuclear energy, but some guests have taken an opposing position.
Ezarik signed with the William Morris Endeavor in July 2017, and she was named one of the top 10 Top Tech/Business Influencers by Forbes for 2017.
On February 23, 2014, before recording TWiT 446, Laporte stated that episode bandwidth for the entire network is around 950 terabytes per month.
His byline has also appeared in many other publications, including OMNI, Wired, PC Magazine, The Standard, The Sun Magazine, Upside, Release 1.0 and The Globe and Mail.
The third, "The Anti-Social Century," published in the magazine's February 2025 issue, points out that Americans are spending more time alone than ever before.
Laporte hosted the daily television show The Lab with Leo Laporte, recorded in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
After their initial funding fell through, Zomorodi and Poyant partnered with Civil, a marketplace that used blockchain technology to distribute news but Civil shut down in 2020.
It is co-hosted by Travis View (real name: Logan Strain), Julian Feeld, and Jake Rockatansky, alongside Annie Kelly (British correspondent), Liv Agar (Canadian correspondent), Brad Abrahams (Inner Earth correspondent), and Allie Mezei (QAA Legal Analyst).
Laporte had been a midday, general-interest radio host until the increasing popularity of Rush Limbaugh, after which he created and co-hosted the tech talk radio show On Computers from January 1991 to July 1994.
Among Searls' contributions to the Manifesto was its first thesis, "Markets are conversations"—also the title of the Cluetrain chapter he co-wrote with David Weinberger.
Crossovers and appearances Rhysider has made appearances on a variety of other programs, the most notable being Snap Judgment and the Lit Hub/Podglomerate Storybound.
People's Choice Podcast Awards 2018 People's Voice Award Winner for Best Science and Education Podcast.
Instead, I looked back at what I wrote with regret, guilt, and embarrassment." Arment expressed remorse for adding to the fear of imminent doom that regularly surrounds Apple instead of the more gradual decline in quality and constructive criticism he intended.
The first book in the series was titled Wow in the World: The How and Wow of The Human Body and the second was titled Wow in the Wild: The Amazing World of Animals.
Early life Justine Ezarik was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the oldest daughter of Michelle Ezarik, a physical education teacher, and Steve Ezarik, a coal miner of Slovak descent.
Note to Self was a podcast hosted by Manoush Zomorodi that focused on the impacts of technology on everyday life.
which debuted on May 17, 2017 and produced by Tinkercast, LLC, a company established by Thomas and Raz to produce children's audio., and distributed by Wondery.
Innovation Crush podcast In 2013, Denson launched Innovation Crush, an interview series focused on the lives and projects of some of the world's most influential innovators.
Denson attended Michigan State University, where he earned a degree in packaging engineering and was a member of the school's martial arts team.
In September 2025, TBPN hired former Postmates and HQ Trivia executive Dylan Abruscato as President.
On September 16, 2015, Arment released Peace, a Safari content blocker for iOS 9 using the Ghostery database.
Career After a brief stint as an engineer at Daimler-Chrysler, Denson moved to Los Angeles to pursue the entertainment industry full-time.
LugRadio Live UK 2008 took place on the weekend of 19 July 2008 at the Light House Media Centre in Wolverhampton.
Nilay Patel () is an American editor and blogger who has been editor-in-chief of technology news website The Verge since 2014.
In high school he led the environmental club "Students H.O.P.E." (Students Healing Our Planet Earth).
Both Dan and Fabian are described as "down to earth, normal, everyday people" by listeners and reviewers alike.
Early life Denson was born in Detroit, Michigan to Christine Denson, a school teacher, and John Denson, a theologian.
Each 30-minute episode features panel discussions and interviews with industry guests who discuss topics such as social media, streaming platforms, online privacy, and video games.
In 2015, a virtual reality blog called Road to VR started to syndicate all future episodes of the Voices of VR podcast on their website.
Episode 27 ("Chartbreakers") was highlighted for its investigation into the manipulation of the Apple Podcasts Top Charts through a vast industry termed as "dark podcast marketing".
Patel coined the term "Google Zero" to criticize the direction of search engines like Google Search integrating LLM tools like AI Overviews, which scrape media outlets for content and reduce click-through web traffic.
Awards and recognition Zomorodi has won numerous journalism awards including the New York Press Club Award for Journalism.
She stated that she did not intend to broadcast what she considers private moments, noting "That shouldn't be a problem.
Education In 2003, Patel earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science from the University of Chicago.
The new deal also allowed Laporte to solicit his traditional TWiT advertisers to sponsor the podcast feeds, while retaining his advertisers for the radio version.
He also hosts Top Four with his wife Tiffany Arment and Under the Radar with David Smith, both on Relay FM.
Adam Zeis is an American writer and podcaster born in Morristown, New Jersey, on November 14, 1978, who currently serves as the Managing Editor of The Streamable.
The show current only has a modest live general viewership though it's is reported to be influential with Technology and Venture capital insiders.
The show was financed by its hosts and is recorded in Thomas's basement studio in Fairfax, Virginia.
Tips from the Top Floor is a podcast which presents tips and tricks about photography, mainly digital photography, in episodes normally ranging from 5 to 15 minutes in length and covering topics from image composition to post processing.
These consist of humorous 60 second videos where Clark and Bryant converse about subjects they covered on previous podcasts while doing a variety of random activities (playing checkers, getting fitted for a suit, going to a doctor, driving through a car wash).
Davies of The Guardian called it "perhaps the best-ever episode of any podcast" and "an incredibly emotive piece of storytelling." See also Internet culture List of technology podcasts References External links Official website
The Amazon-owned podcast network Wondery agreed to distribute the Tinkercast assets in September the same year.
In 2011, This Week in Tech was named "Best Technology Podcast", and TWiT Photo was named "Best New Technology Podcast" by iTunes Rewind.
Guest presenters on the show include Andy Piper, Anton Piatek, Dan Kermac, Emma Marshall, Joe Ressington, Joey Sneddon, Jon Spriggs, Laura Czajkowski, Paul Tansom and Stuart Langridge.
In addition to these regular shows, Merritt hosted live breaking news coverage of major technology events on TWiT's live stream such as WWDC, Google I/O and the resignation and death of Steve Jobs.
She is perhaps best known as the host of the public radio program Tech Nation, its regular segment BioTech Nation, as well as the weekly tech-sci commentary, Five Minutes.
2009: Streamy Award for Best Hosted Web Series (nomination) 2010: Streamy Award for Best Hosted Web Series (won) Other shows A spin-off show, The Digg Reel ran from January 2008 to September 2010, and was originally hosted by Jessica Corbin, followed by Andrew Bancroft.
aggregators such as Google and Facebook) come to dominate the industries in which they compete in a systematic and predictable way.
The content of the podcast was a combination of facts and research as well as real life experiences and personal stories.
The Production Board In 2016 Friedberg began speaking with Larry Page about building and financing startups focused on food, agriculture, decarbonization, and life sciences.
A longtime advocate for open-source software, he has been involved with the Linux Journal since it began publishing in 1994.
In December 2020, Titans of Nuclear conducted a miniseries of interviews with individuals from the United States Department of Energy's Gateway for Accelerated Innovation in Nuclear (GAIN) program.
Jordi Hays founded Branded Native, a YouTube advertising company, as well as a fintech company called Capital (formerly called Party Round) with his wife, Sarah Chase Hays and led the company to its acquisition by Rho Technologies in August 2023.
Thompson contends that this surge in solitude is fundamentally reshaping personalities, politics, and culture, noting that people are increasingly opting for solitude even when it doesn't make them happier.
Format Each episode varies in format, with some recurring segments, including "Yes, Yes, No" which debuted in episode 10, in which Vogt and Goldman explain internet trivia to Alex Blumberg, co-founder of Gimlet Media, with occasional help from outside guests.
These included a standard 64 kbit/s MP3, a low-bandwidth 16 kbit/s MP3, Advanced Audio Coding (AAC), and open source Ogg Vorbis.
The podcast covers their attempts to obtain funding for their company, ideas for new projects, and discussions by both co-founders about the financial risk they were taking, and the effect of running the startup on their personal lives.
Aggregation theory Thompson is a proponent of aggregation theory, which describes how platforms (i.e.
(The MicroTimes column ran under the banner Dvorak's Last Column.) He has written for The New York Times, Los Angeles Times, MacMania Networks, International Herald Tribune, The San Francisco Examiner and The Philadelphia Inquirer, among numerous other publications.
Friedberg joined Monsanto's Executive Team after the acquisition and in 2016 shifted to an advisory role.
Each episode of the TED Radio Hour is one hour long, and explores a theme — such as happiness, crowd-sourcing innovation or power shifts — through three to four related TED Talks.
She later co-hosted the Buzz Out Loud podcast, "The Buzz Report", a web-based news show, and Always On, a talk show.
The book was published in November 2020 and covers a wide range of topics including history, psychology, pop culture, and science.
The pair met at Wolverhampton Linux User Group and it was agreed that Stuart Langridge and Stephen Parkes would complete the line-up.
The podcast won the 2015 Academy of Podcasters Awards in the category "Technology." In 2017, it was announced that director Richard Linklater would direct a movie about American quack physician John R.
The podcast focuses on consumer electronics news, industry trends, and discussions related to videos published on Brownlee's YouTube channel.
It is produced in English and hosted by Chris Marquardt, a photographer, sound professional, musician and media producer.
The series aired on G4 Canada, on the HOW TO Channel in Australia, on several of Canada's Citytv affiliates, and on Google Video.
On November 22, 2021, the show did a special episode discussing the importance of the COVID-19 vaccine.
Reception Waveform has ranked among the top technology podcasts on platforms such as Apple Podcasts.
In several episodes, Laporte has noted that the distributed nature of BitTorrent makes it impossible to accurately gauge the popularity of the show, decreasing the likelihood of attracting advertisers.
Personal life Moira Gunn was born in Staten Island, New York, and moved with her family to California at the age of 10, settling in Menlo Park, just as Silicon Valley was becoming prominent, and Sand Hill Road was open space - now the haunt of world-renowned venture capitalists.
Career Thompson's career includes stints at Apple, where he interned at Apple University; Microsoft, where he worked on its Windows Apps team; and at WordPress developer Automattic as a growth engineer.
As such, Jesse Brown announced on May 1, 2009 that his podcast would be hosted and supported by the Government of Ontario's public broadcasting network, TVOntario.
The book was discussed at the 2021 Los Angeles Times Festival of Books as well as the 2021 San Antonio Book Festival.
Ezarik was cited as being one of the website's most popular lifecasters in the October 2007 issues of both The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal.
In early 1999 Searls joined Christopher Locke, David Weinberger and Rick Levine in writing The Cluetrain Manifesto, an iconoclastic website that was followed in January 2000 by the book with the same title.
After Laporte renewed his Premiere deal that month, these conditions were relaxed, and the show was allowed to be posted hours after first broadcast to TWiT, and caller audio could be heard on the live video and TWiT.am audio feeds.
Microsoft's Stephen Toulouse responded in a Microsoft Security Response Center blog post the next day, saying the behavior was not intentional.
Regular features included News and Releases, a look at recent development in free culture and at new releases of Linux distributions and notable pieces of free software.
Episode 32 ("The Carder") uncovered information about the criminal actions and subsequent investigation of Roman Seleznev.
Linux Voice was a Linux and open source magazine (print and digital) which began publication in the UK in April 2014.
Let's hope so." In 2005, Dvorak wrote "Creative Commons Humbug", an opinion piece criticizing Creative Commons licensing.
Taylor was featured in a November 2020 episode of the Popular Science podcast The Weirdest Thing I Learned This Week, discussing the use of animals noises in sound design.
The same article estimated that she has been viewed on YouTube a total of 64 million times and that her spoof on The Black Eyed Peas' "I Gotta Feeling" drew 4.8 million viewers.
Episodes The first season of the show began with a short listing of the podcast's current sponsors, followed by a humorous fake advertisement (i.e.
In November 2023 Friedberg became the company's full-time chief executive after helping found the venture.
In 2018, Zomorodi quit WNYC to start a media company, Stable Genius Productions, with her colleague Jen Poyant.
On May 30, 2018, US Magistrate Judge Jaqueline Scott Corley granted Twitters' motion to dismiss the case.
Producers of Reply All included Phia Bennin, Tim Howard, Damiano Marchetti, Anna Foley, Jessica Yung, Lisa Wang, and formerly Sruthi Pinnamaneni.
However, PA Serafina was quoted on the forums for saying, "There's details and red tape we still need to figure out.
Awards TWiT has won two Podcast Awards, as both the "People's Choice" and as "Best Technology Podcast".
On March 18, 2015, prior to the filming of This Week in Google, Leo Laporte stated that TWiT expects to make $7 million in revenue in fiscal year 2015, and made "almost" $10 million in revenue in 2016.
Linux Outlaws was segment-based, and focused the show on discussion of various topics throughout the show.
References External links Official ABC page Marc Fennell's Download This Show page Rae Johnston’s official website
In 2018, due to the success of the program, Guy Raz launched the "How I Built This Summit" at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco, California.
In 2014, she appeared on CNN to discuss the Ebola outbreak and the role of social media in sharing information related to the epidemic.
Distribution was handed over to Sony Music in April 2021, but the deal with Sony was very short lived.
History Titans of Nuclear was conceived by Bret Kugelmass, founder of the Energy Impact Center in Washington, D.C., in 2017.
Martin Wimpress Martin has been a Linux user since 1995 and first used the Warty Warthog release of Ubuntu.
TWiT tried to informally resolve the trademark issue, and in January 2018 filed a trademark infringement lawsuit against Twitter.
As Stefano Forenza says on his website "you know you're someone when you get cited twice in a single episode of LinuxOutlaws".
He later recounted driving past the Bike Hut in San Francisco and watching sales slump on rainy days, which convinced him that weather created a major risk for small businesses.
History In September 2013, technology journalists Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher left All Things Digital, the technology news site they had founded and developed for Dow Jones and News Corp.
Occasionally, other bitrates are used for episodes produced in stereo, however most episodes are monaural.
The show often played phone messages left by Spark listeners and featured comments left on the Spark Blog.
It was a Linux, Free Software and Open Source event intended to be fun, without the corporate agenda held by other commercial events.
Several regular guests would appear during the show via Zoom: AVSForum editor Scott Wilkinson, Dick DeBartolo of Mad Magazine, and Johnny Jet appeared on Saturdays while Chris Marquardt of Tips from the Top Floor has a Sunday segment.
Podcasts When RadioTux started, podcasts were not yet known, so it can be considered being one of the first podcasts which came up and which is still existing.
In early 2021, the podcast began releasing a series of episodes called "The Test Kitchen", which covered allegations of a racist and toxic work environment at the food magazine Bon Appétit.
Since episode 215 in October 2009, the show has been available weekly as both an audio and video download as well as on YouTube.
She was nominated at the 4th Streamy Awards in 2014 for Best Collaboration with Rooster Teeth, Freddie Wong, Greg Miller, and Adam Kovic.
She co-hosts the technology-focused show Rocket on the Relay FM podcast network alongside Brianna Wu and Simone de Rochefort.
With the closing of the TWiT "eastside" studios in Petaluma, California, United States, it is now produced virtually.
Searls has also been a blogger since October 1999, when he started blogging with help from his friend Dave Winer.
Media contact information is available on the Tech Nation website Academically, Bioentrepreneurship courses are throughout the university as they require the successful collaboration of multi-disciplinary expertise.
Andrew Manganelli, a long-time collaborator and producer for the MKBHD channel, serves as co-host, while David Imel later joined as a regular co-host.
Curry usually has more outlandish opinions of the week's news or world events, while Dvorak plays the straight man in the dialogue.
He also hosted the show "Tech5", where he discussed the day's tech news in approximately five minutes; it ended production in late 2010.
TPB partners with scientists, business leaders, and entrepreneurs to address challenges such as climate change.
It was first held in 2005 with 250 attendees, 14 speakers — including Mark Shuttleworth, who arrived by helicopter — and 18 exhibitors including Ubuntu, Debian, KDE and O'Reilly.
Nora Young often encouraged listeners to become "Spark Contributors" by participating in the active conversations on the Spark Blog, notifying the Spark Team of interesting ideas to investigate, or even recording interviews and letting Spark use them on the show.
Kugelmass would later begin sharing hosting duties with Jadwiga Najder, Olubunmi Olajide, and Naomi Senehi.
The purpose of VRM is to equip individuals with tools that provide both independence from vendor "lock-in" and better means for engaging with vendors.
Many current interviews are recorded directly from industry and community events such as the KubeCon series, the Chemnitzer Linux-Tage, and the Free and Open Source Software Conference (FrOSCon), reflecting the project's ongoing focus on contemporary open-source and cloud-native technologies.
On November 19, 2022, actor, writer, musician, and comedian Steve Martin called into Laporte's radio show to announce Leo's retirement from The Tech Guy radio show.
He also produces the Free as in Freedom podcast Format Each episode generally had a global download count of over 20000 and was often presented with both a serious attitude and a humorous bent.
In 2022, How I Built This signed a licensing deal with Wondery, with subsequent radio distribution remaining with NPR.
Other segments included Tip of the Week and Beer of the Week, where Fabian recommended a brand of beer.
While Searls's permanent home is in Santa Barbara, he and his family currently live most of the year near his work at Harvard.
Patel has appeared on a number of news channels, including MS NOW (formerly MSNBC), Fox News, CNN, CNN International, NPR, Sky News, NHK, G4TV, and TWiT.
In the early years, the site included a humorous treatise on Lawrence Welk, free icons and backgrounds for visitors to use, and a web design tutorial titled "Ask Dr.
References Notes External links Video on YouTube Fab, Linux Outlaws Podcaster – interview on the site of Fedora.
On May 7, 2021, the podcast expanded to include a full video format with the launch of the Waveform YouTube channel, making each episode available in both audio and video formats.
Personal life Born in Lawrenceville, Georgia on November 12, 1982, Christina Warren currently resides in Seattle, Washington with her husband, Grant.
TV and online media Dvorak was on the start-up team for CNET Networks, appearing on the television show CNET Central.
Guests generally include nuclear energy experts who come from various political, scientific, and business backgrounds.
On May 27, 2015 New Tech City changed its name to Note to Self, in response to listener suggestions.
The show promises to develop into a worthy rival of Reply All and This American Life." In April 2020, The Irish Times included Endless Thread on its list of "50 of the Best Podcasts to Listen to Right Now".
History Zomorodi has worked as a journalist for 20 years, and before joining WNYC, she reported for Reuters and the British Broadcasting Corporation.
It grew out of host Dallas Taylor's admiration for the podcast 99% Invisible and a desire to hear more stories like the ones they produced about audio design.
Jono Bacon and Stuart Langridge are the only two presenters who were with the show throughout, with Jono Bacon being the only presenter to appear on every show.
The site also reviews new enterprises, and consumer hardware and software, and conducts original reports.
In November 2014, during an interview with American Public Media's Marketplace Leo Laporte stated that TWiT makes $6 million in ad revenue a year from 5 million TWiT podcasts downloaded each month, mostly in the form of audio, and that 3,000 to 4,000 people watch its live-streamed shows.
In May 2020, host Dallas Taylor delivered a TED Talk, "What silence can teach you about sound." The talk discussed John Cage's composition 4'33", a topic which had previously been explored in an episode of Twenty Thousand Hertz.
It is primarily broadcast on YouTube, X, and Substack, with full episodes available on Apple Podcasts and Spotify.
Podcast In addition to the magazine, the team produced a fortnightly podcast covering Linux and wider free software issues.
Format Each episode of RadioLab is one hour long and tackles various philosophical and scientific topics.
She was the host of the WNYC podcast Note to Self, which explores humans' relationship with technology through conversations with listeners and experts.
consists of a discussion between Gibson and Laporte on issues of computer security and, conversely, insecurity.
In November 2019, Manoush Zomorodi, previously host of the WNYC podcast Note to Self, was named the show’s new host.
The site developed a reputation for breaking tech industry news but ultimately did not reach the level of popularity it expected, with just 1.5 million regular monthly visitors.
During the show some advertisements for 3rd party commercial products or services are read out, by co-host Leo Laporte.
In 2018, he became the host of the technology and science podcast Crazy/Genius, which was nominated for an iHeartMedia Best Podcast Award in its first year.
Before she began hosting Note to Self, Zomorodi was a television reporter for the British Broadcasting Corporation.
In May 2013, one month after the sale of Instapaper, Arment announced he was selling The Magazine to Glenn Fleishman, its editor.
Dvorak (; born 1952) is an American writer and broadcaster in the areas of technology and personal computing.
Video TWiT began as an audio podcast, although several video episodes were filmed in the first few years of the show.
The first The Tech Guy show produced at the TWiT Brick House was on July 30, which also was the first broadcast from Leo's office set, which was built to resemble the former Cottage studio.
The profits were split between 'software' and 'projects and distros' with the top 3 winners in each category receiving a part of the total funds.
Guests have included Daymond John, Elizabeth Gore, Nolan Bushnell, Damian Kulash, Alexis Ohanian, Rob Dyrdek, Cindy Gallop.
It leverages the simple fact that buyers are the first source of money, and that they come ready-made.
In October 2008, she became the host of an online, twice weekly music and lifestyle program produced by PluggedIn.com called The PluggedIn 5.
Eliana Dockterman, writing for Time in April 2018, said, "[The hosts] add new depth to these Internet-famous fables with interviews, narrative arcs and, crucially, their fact-checking abilities.
ABC News said of the show that "Curious kids will be captivated, and you'll find it hard not to love it too." Awards Adaptation The podcast was adapted into a book series.
In 2015 the winners in the software category were Scribus which was awarded £1000, GIMP was awarded £300 and Inkscape was awarded £200.
He has written for various publications, including InfoWorld, PC Magazine (two separate columns since 1986), MarketWatch, BUG Magazine (Croatia), and Info Exame (Brazil).
In October 2020, host Dallas Taylor was featured in "Sound and Silence," an episode of the TED Radio Hour, drawn from his TED Talk.
At 16 he enrolled at Clarkson University in Potsdam, New York, worked in a pool hall, and learned to play poker.
In 2019, the podcast featured interviews with national politicians, including House Representative for Massachusetts Seth Moulton and Idaho Senator Mike Crapo.
The show was launched in 2004 as a result of discussions between several members of the Wolverhampton Linux User Group.
Awards and nominations Adweek's 12 Most Successful Media Agency Executives in Southern California References External links Innovation Crush podcast Chris Denson at IMDb
Based on the increase in the number of sponsored programs as well as the increase in sponsors, the 2013 gross revenue is estimated to be in the eight million dollar range.
Denson also serves as an advisory board member on the SXSW Accelerator, Google Launchpad, and the White House's Global Entrepreneurship Summit.
The second revised edition of Designing With Web Standards, issued in 2007, which famously showed Zeldman with a blue knit hat on its book cover, inspired Douglas Vos to invent the Blue Beanie Day, an annual international celebration of web standards which began in 2007.
Starting around episode 10, Norton began physically coming to Leo's Petaluma office during the taping.
Each episode typically features three or four commercial breaks, usually in the form of a "live read" from Laporte that may include interaction with the panelists (e.g., Laporte usually prompts guests for recommended audiobooks during spots for frequent advertiser Audible.com).
Presenters Fabian Scherschel Fabian Scherschel is a journalist at Heise Verlag in Hannover, Germany.
The book argues that shortages of key pillars of "the good life" — housing, energy, healthcare, and innovation — are the result of artificial, policy-driven scarcities in liberal policy-making.
Liv Agar has covered conspiracy theories focused on Canada, as well as topics relating to modern-day adolescent internet culture.
How I Built This is an American podcast about "innovators, entrepreneurs, idealists, and the stories behind the movements they built" produced by NPR.
Print publications Zeldman has authored two books, Taking your Talent to the Web, which was published in 2001, and Designing with Web Standards, which first came out in 2003, and appeared in two revised editions, one in 2007, and one in 2009.
Background Marques Brownlee, creator of the technology-focused MKBHD YouTube channel, launched Waveform in 2019 to provide additional commentary beyond his video content, including behind-the-scenes insights and more informal discussion.
Gunn was also awarded an honorary doctorate in science by Purdue University|url=https://www.cs.purdue.edu/news/articles/2009/gunn-phd.html%7Cwebsite=Purdue University|publisher=Purdue University|accessdate=24 March 2022|date=18 May 2009| == References ==
Get Played (formerly How Did This Get Played?) is an audio podcast that follows Heather Anne Campbell, Nick Wiger and Matt Apodaca as they discuss and review video games, with early episodes focusing on weird or bad games.
Media coverage and awards LugRadio received coverage in Linux Format magazine, Linux User and Developer magazine and Linux Magazine as well as online coverage by sites such as Slashdot.
The two of them started a media company called "Stable Genius Productions", a reference to a tweet by President Donald Trump.
In 2021, Vogt and another producer left the show following backlash critical of the work environment.
He is the founder and host of the Voices of VR podcast, and a keynote speaker, panelist, and moderator at international industry conferences including Games for Change, Silicon Valley Virtual Reality (SVVR), SXSW, and VR NOW.
Presenters While the show had various presenters over the years, the line-up for the final 5 seasons was Alan Pope, Mark Johnson and Martin Wimpress.
The process involved recordings made by each presenter on his own machine, as well as a backup analogue recording by Fabian.
Chris Denson (born January 6, 1976) is an American innovation expert, marketer, and humor enthusiast.
Arment expressed his regret in a follow-up post the next day: "You might think this is a dream come true for a blogger, but it's horrible.
The first, "A World Without Work", is a widely referenced essay on the meaning of work and automation's threat to the labor force.
He also founded the design studios Happy Cog and studio.zeldman, and co-founded the A Book Apart imprint and the design conference An Event Apart.
In 1998, Laporte created and co-hosted The Screen Savers, and the original version of Call for Help on the cable and satellite network ZDTV (later TechTV).
Personal life She is married to television reporter Josh Robin, with whom she has two children and lives in New York City.
In 2010, Zeldman expanded his publishing work beyond web magazines with the creation of the A Book Apart imprint.
After attending the Potomac School, Thompson graduated from Northwestern University in 2008 with a triple major in journalism, political science, and legal studies.
When the series premiered in April 2012, it was carried by 76 of NPR's member stations, including WHYY Philadelphia, KUOW Seattle and KOPB Portland.
China Since its inception, Search Engine has broadcast stories pertaining to government control of the Internet in China, commented on the citizen journalism efforts in that nation, and criticized the Chinese government for the ways in which its policies restrict access to many Internet venues.
Overview Searls' journalism career began in 1971, when he worked as an editor and photographer for Wayne Today in New Jersey.
History The magazine started as a result of a successful Indiegogo crowdfunding campaign in late 2013, which raised over £120,000.
TWiT.tv is a podcast network that broadcasts technology-focused podcasts, founded by broadcaster and author Leo Laporte in 2005, and run by his wife and company CEO Lisa Laporte.
Multiple podcasts The on-air version was available as a weekly podcast, augmented with two additional audio feeds: Spark Plus (which featured "bonus audio" such as full interviews), and "Bandwidth with Anshuman Iddamsetty", a weekly technology column by one of Spark's producers.
Ezarik was also hired to appear in three commercials for a national TV ad campaign for Mozy, an award-winning online backup and recovery system.
Reply All is an American podcast from Gimlet Media that ran from 2014 to 2022, featuring stories about how people shape the internet, and how the internet shapes people.
Innovations Zeldman and Happy Cog were early advocates of standards-based web design and many of their current and former employees have greatly contributed to various initiatives on the web, including: The development of "real type on the web" via CSS and services including Typekit.
The show had several occasional features that were periodically played: The Best of Craigslist: Craigslist CEO Jim Buckmaster reading selected outlandish posts from his company's site.
Segments/Bits Tropes Tropes are usually pointed out by the four hosts, such as sassy black female characters, wise-cracking sidekicks, false introductions, etc.
Linux Outlaws was a Linux news and technology podcast produced by Sixgun Productions and hosted by Fabian Scherschel and Dan Lynch.
Friedman calls Searls "one of the most respected technology writers in America." Searls' two academic fellowships both began in 2006.
At the end of 2015, Security Now was number 4 on the Top 40 US Technology Podcasts, making it the highest weekly TWiT.tv podcast.
The first episode of the podcast was made available online on January 8, 2018 and featured Michael Shellenberger as the guest.
In Season 2, TED Radio Hour was produced by Jeff Rogers, Brent Baughman, Meghan Keane, Neva Grant and Sanaz Meshkinpour with help from NPR's Portia Robertson Migas and Eric Nuzum, and TED's Chris Anderson, June Cohen, Deron Triff and Janet Lee.
The show was originally conceived of as a Star Wars podcast, and a pilot episode on that theme was recorded, before it was decided to focus on video games instead.
In 2017, Zomorodi teamed up with ProPublica to launch "Breaking the Black Box", an investigation into Facebook's collection of their users' personal data.
Personal life Friedberg co-hosts the All-In business and investment podcast with Chamath Palihapitiya, David O.
He formerly worked for the NHS as a .NET developer before turning his back on Microsoft technologies to become an open source enthusiast.
It is broadcast on 600+ public radio stations in the United States and internationally, and is also available as a free weekly podcast.
"51st thing" The shortlist selected by Harford for public vote as the 51st thing was: Credit card Glass Global Positioning System (GPS) Irrigation Pencil Spreadsheet The item selected by public vote was the credit card, announced by Harford in the episode entitled "Number 51".
Before joining Gimlet, Vogt and Goldman hosted a technology and culture podcast called TLDR for WNYC.
The Tech Guy concluded in December 2022, with Rich DeMuro taking the time slot with his own program Rich on Tech.
Brown's first formal recognition as a producer of media came at the age of 18, when he received the Udo award from Ryerson University School of Journalism in Toronto, Ontario, Canada for starting a successful underground student newspaper at the school.
The following year, Wood became a tech correspondent and backup host for the US public radio program Marketplace and its various spinoffs.
Zeis completed two years at FDU before dropping out to work as a full-time manager of a local video store, where he had been working part-time since 1997.
That fall, she was a featured participant in the first annual BlogWorld & New Media Expo which bills itself as the "World's Largest Social Media Conference".
Diggnation announced that it would stop production of episodes from the end of 2011, which caused massive uproar.
It was also broadcast in Australia on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation's Radio National network.
Background John Coogan is co-founder of meal replacement company Soylent and nicotine pouch and gum company Lucy.
Download This Show is an Australian weekly radio program and podcast produced by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC).
The firm states that the approach can produce polyploid offspring that retain the full genomes of both parents and can shorten breeding cycles across major crops.
History How I Built This began on September 12, 2016, as a podcast where the host, NPR journalist Guy Raz, talks to innovators, entrepreneurs, and idealists, about the stories behind the movements they built.
In 2024 AgFunderNews reported that Ohalo had raised a little over $100 million, was developing programs in crops including potato, and planned to partner with seed companies on additional crops.
Zomorodi left the show in April 2018 to launch a new cryptocurrency supported podcast that was not affiliated with WNYC.
Spark Lite, a low-bandwidth podcast of the on-air version powered by blip.tv, was available from November 2008 to October 2011; it ended due to changes in blip.tv policy.
WeatherBill secured funding from Founders Fund, Khosla Ventures, Google Ventures, New Enterprise Associates, Index Ventures and Atomico.
In July 2016, Dvorak and co-host Adam Curry won the "Best Podcast" Podcast Award for No Agenda, in the News & Politics category.
This causes the length of each episode to vary, sometimes considerably, from show to show, although most episodes run approximately two hours.
The HOW TO Channel did not air the remaining episodes after it was announced the show had been canceled.
Mossberg left The Wall Street Journal at the end of the year, leaving behind a popular, weekly technology column.
On occasion some shows were produced as specials to focus on one single topic, such as the release of Ubuntu 8.04 or an interview with Bradley M.
Looking to get away from the negative aspects covering of hard news, she moved to California and took a job at MacHome Journal, where she said she discovered that she had always been a geek.
Weinberger and Searls co-wrote "World of Ends: What the Internet Is and How to Stop Mistaking It for Something Else".
He is the author of Hit Makers: How to Succeed in an Age of Distraction and, with Ezra Klein, the co-author of Abundance.
Gibson claimed that while reverse engineering the Windows Metafile format, he could run arbitrary code by using a "nonsensical" value in the metafile, and concluded Microsoft had intentionally designed Windows this way so it could run code on Windows computers without the user's knowledge.
His work with Linux Journal, and as an advocate of free software and open-source, earned him a Google-O'Reilly Open Source Award for Best Communicator in 2005.
She also did work in robotics engineering at IBM, Morton Thiokol, United Technologies/Pratt & Whitney, Lockheed-Martin, Rolls-Royce, and the US Navy.
Speakers included Chris DiBona (Google), Gervase Markham (Mozilla) and a representative from the Department for Communities and Local Government.
Overview The show's title refers to highest frequency that can be perceived within the human hearing range (without hearing loss).
In the projects and distros category, the Open Rights Group was awarded £1000, the Electronic Frontier Foundation was awarded £300 and the Free Software Foundation was awarded £200.
Based on a series of episodes of Note to Self from 2015, the book expands on the benefits of removing distractions to increase well-being and stimulate creativity, and includes feedback from listener responses to the podcast.
Criticism of new technology On February 19, 1984, in an article in The San Francisco Examiner, Dvorak listed the mouse as a reason the Macintosh computer might not be successful: "The Macintosh uses an experimental pointing device called a ‘mouse’.
She has continued her approach of engaging with audience members to gather data about the impact of technology on their lifestyles through projects like "Body Electric", which studied how taking movement breaks affect peoples' bodies.
Episode 43 saw the introduction of a Micro-watch sub-segment, concentrating on Microsoft-related news.
As a developer, he is best known for being chief technology officer for Tumblr and creating Instapaper and Overcast.
Early life Zomorodi, who is of part Iranian descent, was born and raised in Princeton, New Jersey, and studied English and Fine Arts at Georgetown University.
Spark was a Canadian radio talk show about "technology and culture." Hosted by Nora Young, the program made its CBC Radio One début on September 5, 2007.
After five seasons, on 30 June 2008, LugRadio announced that they would end the show at their convention, LugRadio Live UK 2008.
He is a co-founder, with Gina Smith and the late Jerry Pournelle, of the web site aNewDomain.net, where he is also a columnist.
While there, he began to explore stand-up comedy and comedy writing by performing at local nightclubs and creating his own sketch comedy TV series that aired locally in Lansing, Michigan.
The hosts are Ben Brock Johnson (the former host of Marketplace Tech) and Amory Sivertson (who formerly worked on Modern Love: The Podcast).
Podcast As of November 2025, there are 935 episodes of the show, the latest published on July 5th, 2023.
Editorial Director Andrew Gregory claimed the magazine would return a portion of profits to "the community that we serve".
The checklist included at its introduction: bad guy with a theme song or sound, barfing, boobies, decapitations, stereotypes, urination/defecation, Kenobi archetype, animal/robot for comedy relief, and [a late addition], a cave that looks like a vagina.
The founders of Substack, a newsletter platform launched in 2018, called Thompson a major inspiration for their project.
Between Season 1 and Season 2, the show's team, led by NPR's VP of Programming Eric Nuzum, Deron Triff and Series Producer Jeff Rogers, overhauled the show.
Credits According to the show credits, in Season 1, TED Radio Hour was produced by Jeff Rogers, Sam Greenspan and Meghan Keane with help from NPR's Eric Nuzum, and TED's Chris Anderson, June Cohen, Deron Triff, Emily McManus and Janet Lee.
History The idea of a TED radio show was first proposed in 2011 by TED's head of content distribution Deron Triff to NPR Interim President and CEO Joyce Slocum.
Guests have included Ximian co-founder Nat Friedman, Google Open Source program manager Chris DiBona, Sun Head of Open Source Strategy Simon Phipps and Eric Raymond among others.
However the time and effort the TWiT Staff needed to encode, upload, and distribute alternate audio formats in the limited time between recording and release each Sunday evening was not justified by the number of people choosing to listen to them.
Included in the story was an interview with Hmong veteran and refugee Eng Yang, with his niece Kao Kalia Yang serving as translator.
The podcast has covered topics such as the THX Deep Note, misophonia, the Voyager Golden Record, the Shure SM7 microphone, ASMR, and advertising jingles.
After 17 years at The Atlantic, Thompson left his full-time role to write independently on Substack in June 2025.
Recognition and awards In 2012, iTunes Australia named Download This Show the best new podcast, and it has won Best Audio Program at the Australian IT Journalism Awards ("The Lizzies") many times.
In August 2016, Warren had left Mashable to join Gizmodo "as senior technology writer, a role that will see her as a marquis [sic] voice in defining Gizmodo's point of view on the major stories of the day".
Nine months after an issue was published, it was made available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported license for all to read without charge in both PDF and ePub formats.
Recode (stylized as recode; formerly Re/code) was a technology news website that focused on the business of Silicon Valley.
While working as an associate producer for Playboy Television, Denson developed the marketing plan for the network's launch of a hip hop channel, Hype TV.
In addition to audio, text transcriptions are published, along with Gibson distributing a low-bandwidth 16 kbit/s version of the show on his own for those with low-bandwidth sources such as satellite internet or dial-up.
Episodes By November 2025, the podcast had released over 300 episodes, reflecting its weekly release schedule and continued growth since its launch in 2019.
Each TED Radio Hour episode is elaborately stylized, layering original sound design under each TED Talk and conversation.
The show was also broadcast on Sirius Satellite Radio 159 and, since January 9, 2010, on Vermont Public Radio's network of stations in the United States.
In 2006 LugRadio Live saw around 400 attendees, over 30 speakers including Michael Meeks and 27 exhibitors including Ubuntu, OpenSolaris, KDE, MythTV, Debian, Fedora and GNOME.
In another recurring segment, called "Super Tech Support" which debuted in episode 33, the Reply All team—particularly Goldman, who previously worked as a network administrator—takes on odd or especially complex tech support issues that the listeners or friends of the hosts have encountered.
This Week in Computer Hardware, Home Theater Geeks, NSFW, This Week in Tech, MacBreak Weekly, TWiT Live Specials, iPad Today, Tech News Today, The Tech Guy, This Week in Google, and Windows Weekly were named "Best of 2010 in Podcasts" by iTunes Rewind.
Its episodes made use of Creative Commons music until October 2010, when CBC management realized that Spark was available on some platforms considered to be commercial, violating use restrictions of most of the music available under the Creative Commons licenses.
Thompson launched Stratechery as a blog while still a Microsoft employee, and in April 2014 devoted himself to the site full-time, operating on a "freemium" subscription model.
Gunn's degrees include a Bachelor of Science degree in computer science from the University of San Francisco, a master's degree in computer science from Purdue University and a Doctor of Philosophy in mechanical engineering from Purdue.
She gained attention as a lifecaster who communicated directly with her millions of viewers on her Justin.tv channel, ijustine.tv.
In 2026, Friedberg was appointed to the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST) by President Donald Trump.
She left Marketplace in 2021 to join Launch, a venture capital firm, where she was a podcaster and investor.
The show's guests have included Meta CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, filmmaker James Cameron, Anduril Industries co-founder Palmer Luckey, Marc Andreessen of Andreessen Horowitz, OpenAI co-founder and CEO Sam Altman, DoorDash co-founder Andy Fang, and Eddy Cue of Apple.
Career Gunn's early career included work at NASA on large-scale scientific computation and global communications, with special emphasis in infrared satellite image processing, computational fluid dynamics, and global climate and weather modeling.
TWiT founder and owner Leo Laporte, in an October 2009 speech, stated that it grossed revenues of $1.5 million per year, while costs were around $350,000.
In recent years Martin has worked with large scale Linux infrastructure and the transmission and analytics of Black box flight data.
Spark was produced in Toronto by Young and a team that consisted of Michelle Parise, Adam Killick, and Kent Hoffman.
Some shows are produced along with Leo Laporte's show, The Tech Guy and broadcast on the Premiere Radio Network as well as Sirius XM Satellite Radio.
Stable Genius Productions In 2018, Zomorodi quit WNYC, along with Jen Poyant, Executive Producer for Note to Self.
Working under editor-in-chief Kevin Michaluk, Zeis ran the day-to-day on CrackBerry as Managing Editor.
In April 2014, Smartwatch Fans was rebranded to Connectedly.com, a site focused on connected devices, wearables, and the Internet of Things.
Content As continued from All Things Digital, Recode focuses on technology and digital media news, particularly pertaining to the business of Silicon Valley.
Guests The podcast regularly features guest appearances from technology creators and industry figures.
Ezarik appeared live on the Internet through the use of a wireless webcam and microphone on her own iJustine lifecasting channel on Justin Kan's Justin.tv, where she began transmitting her life via the Internet on May 29, 2007.
Upon Rose's announcement that he was moving to San Francisco, Laporte started to gather the panelists for public live tapings in the San Francisco area, with most episodes being videotaped and released as a video podcast download.
Work Warren began her career as a freelance writer for USA Today in 2007, where she wrote about American Idol as an "Idol Coach".
The show is hosted and produced by Dallas Taylor and the writer of the episode, with help from Sam Schneble.
After Peace had held the top spot on the App Store's list of paid apps for 36 hours, Arment pulled it from the App Store, stating he didn't "feel good" with its resounding success.
She was the first woman to earn a PhD in mechanical engineering from the university, where she more recently was awarded an honorary doctorate in science.
He attended Allegheny College in Meadville, Pennsylvania, and graduated in 2004 with a Bachelor of Science degree in computer science.
This presentation formed the foundation of what would ultimately become the "XR Ethics Manifesto" that Bye presented on October 18, 2019, at xRS Week from Greenlight Insights.
As of January 2024, the network hosts 14 podcasts; however, due to declining advertisement sales, some are being discontinued, or are only available with a Club TWiT subscription and the TWiT studio was closed in August 2024.
Technology Business Programming Network (TBPN) is a live video and audio podcast focused on business and technology news hosted by John Coogan and Jordi Hays.
Technology start-ups were everywhere, and even decades later, the Gunn family's bungalow on Santa Margarita Avenue was just three doors down from another modest home, this one owned by Susan Wojcicki, who rented her garage to Sergey Brin and Larry Page as Google's first office.
LugRadio Live 2007 took place on 7–8 July 2007 at the Light House Media Centre, Wolverhampton attracting hundreds of attendees from around the world.
Its holding company, Revere Digital, received minority investments from NBCUniversal and Terry Semel's Windsor Media.
Before graduating from high school, he appeared in several theatrical productions at the Folger Shakespeare Theater and the Shakespeare Theater.
Darknet Diaries is an investigative podcast created by Jack Rhysider (), chronicling true stories about crackers, malware, botnets, cryptography, cryptocurrency, cybercrime, and Internet privacy, all subjects falling under the umbrella of "tales from the dark side of the Internet".
He elaborated, "While [ad blockers] do benefit a ton of people in major ways, they also hurt some, including many who don't deserve the hit." Podcasts Between November 2010 and December 2012, Arment hosted a podcast, Build and Analyze, with Dan Benjamin on 5by5 Studios.
In October 2013, Monsanto announced that it was acquiring The Climate Corporation for about $1.1 billion.
Initially, it was distributed by NPR as part of its efforts to invest in podcasts and digital media aimed at wider audiences, including families, as well as Guy Raz's connections to the broadcaster for producing popular shows like the TED Radio Hour and the business podcast How I Built This.
The show is aimed mainly at beginner digital photographers, though the content is suitable for all levels of photographer.
The first episode, a short announcement, was released on July 31, 2019, followed by the first full-length episode on August 9, 2019.
He makes regular appearances on The Verge's "history show meets a rewatch podcast" show, Version History.
Zeis was the editorial director of High Yield content at Future until September 2024, working with brands such as Tom's Guide and TechRadar.
Recordings were usually made on Monday in a live show, using IRC and releases of the show usually occur on Wednesday.
Shows The TWiT Network is host to the following shows Litigation In May 2017, Twitter announced that it would deliver original video content on its platform.
After having been named "the most influential person online" in an article in Fast Company and achieving a number 6 ranking in The Daily Beast's Digital Power Index in 2012, Ezarik signed with United Talent Agency in 2013.
Marco Arment (born June 11, 1982) is an American iOS developer, web developer, podcaster, restaurateur, technology writer and former magazine editor.
Recode also provided breaking technology coverage for NBCUniversal, and received video resources and exposure in return via a formal partnership.
Other episodes that year featured discussions with members of the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission.
He currently serves on the board of the Girls Academic Leadership Academy, the first public girls' STEM school in the state of California.
Instead of focusing on the industry of sound design exclusively, episodes focus on a variety of topics related to sound.
Kent Bye (born 1976) is an American podcaster and experiential journalist based in Portland, Oregon.
Warren has interviewed many well-known members of the tech industry including Fred Wilson, venture capitalist and Jony Ive, Chief Design Officer at Apple Inc.
The event features keynote speakers (many of whom have been featured on the podcast) and networking activities.
The presenters claimed not to be Linux experts, but only to be trying very hard to provide listeners with a good time, entertainment, and interesting Linux-related information.
An extended interview with Mark Zuckerberg was also released separately following an edited version on the MKBHD YouTube channel.
Live broadcasts as comprehensive programming have been transmitted from LinuxTag, the Linux World Conference & Expo and the Chemnitzer Linux-Tage.
See also Category:Lists of inventions or discoveries A History of the World in 100 Objects List of business and finance podcasts References External links Official website BBC World Service episode guide Financial Times review of podcast
Following a Twenty Thousand Hertz episode about audio deepfakes, host Dallas Taylor was featured in a September 2020 segment of NPR's Here & Now, discussing the topic.
From 1973 to 1976, he studied Chinese history at Yale University before dropping out in his junior year to pursue a career in radio broadcasting, where his early on-air names were Dave Allen and Dan Hayes.
The podcast won "Tech Podcast of the Year" as well as "Podcast of the Year" at the 2019 Adweek Podcast Awards.
Several shows are presented by Kanal Ratte staff and transmitted live into their programme which is available via FM, cable and livestream.
On April 11, 2024, the podcast officially rebranded from QAnon Anonymous to simply the QAA Podcast, along with a new theme song and cover art.
At the end of the show, Rose and Albrecht mention their sponsors again, read the e-mail from fans, then conclude the show with a seemingly ad-libbed phrase or saying.
Security Now was the recipient of the 2007 People's Choice Podcast Awards in the Technology category.
On January 4, 2015, Arment posted an article to Marco.org about Apple's declining software quality that unexpectedly went viral.
Mossberg saw the investment as an opportunity to implement new ways of covering the technology field, and planned to add six employees on technology policy and mobile beats.
Brownlee was a finalist for Best Podcaster at the 12th Shorty Awards in 2020 for his work on the show.
Lasica calls Searls "one of the deep thinkers in the blog movement." In The World Is Flat, Thomas L.
Oloko, writing for The Harvard Crimson in February 2018, called Endless Thread "addictively captivating".
In January 2026, Warren was announced by Leo Laporte as the replacement regular co-host on MacBreak Weekly, replacing the long-standing Alex Lindsay who recently left for a full time position at Apple.
In July 2013, Marco released Bugshot, an iOS application for marking up screenshots, to help people report software bugs.
Waveform: The MKBHD Podcast (also referred to as Waveform or WVFRM) is a technology podcast hosted by American YouTuber Marques Brownlee, alongside Andrew Manganelli and David Imel.
In 2020, Guy Raz released his book How I Built This: The Unexpected Paths to Success from the World's Most Inspiring Entrepreneurs, which highlights key moments and stories from the podcast.
History Reply All was an American podcast from Gimlet Media, hosted by Alex Goldman and PJ Vogt, with Emmanuel Dzotsi joining on as a host in October 2020.
Starting with a sound bite from the item being covered and a greeting by the hosts, a synopsis of the film will be read by voice-over actor Scott Fletcher.
In 1998, he co-founded the Web Standards Project with George Olsen and Glenn Davis, serving as project leader from 1999 to 2002.
The New York Times reported that the number of overall listeners to the show increased 35 percent across platforms in the days after its release.
Other work Zomorodi is the author of the books Bored and Brilliant: How Spacing Out Can Unlock Your Most Productive and Creative Self and Camera Ready: How to Present Your Best Self and Ideas On Air and Online.
After two months, their Facebook page had over 10,000 likes, and as of September 2015 it had more than 750,000.
Notable guests have included Craig Federighi, Carl Pei, Chris Cox, Panos Panay, and executives from Maingear.
The wide selection of speakers included many celebrities including Miguel de Icaza, Robert Love, Ian Murdock, and Jeremy Allison.
The topics are mostly around free and open source software, free operating systems like *BSD and Linux, as well as on sociopolitical issues.
In the episode, the two hosts confirmed new episodes of "Talking Tech" would be released every 4 to 5 episodes of "The Kevin Rose Show." However, only one follow up episode was released, in 2018.
He was followed by Patrick Norton in August 2007, who worked at Ziff Davis as 'head of podcasts' and host of the IPTV show DL.TV.
Covered topics have included security vulnerabilities, firewalls, password security, spyware, rootkits, Wi-Fi, virtual private networks, and virtual machines.
He won several comedy competitions, and landed an appearance on USA's Up All Night with Gilbert Gottfried.
Shortly after his move, he worked as a production assistant on the Leeza Gibbons Show, and months later landed his first job as a writer on the BET series Live From LA.
Impact and real-life influences Episode 17 ("Finn") was adapted and featured on the WNYC Studios podcast Snap Judgment.
Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic enshrines freedom of worship, thereby making any discrimination based on religion punishable by law, and obligating the government to ensure the protection of this freedom.
Formal limitations Belgium has prohibited the wearing of niqab and other face-covering garments in public, officially due to the state’s claim of the importance of “living together”.
Restrictions on religious freedom Government policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion.
During a hearing on 12 August 2004, in the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal, Watts said that after the press release, she suffered vandalism to her property and an assault at her home, in addition to general "hatred, contempt and revulsion".
See also Act of Uniformity 1549 Religious persecution Christian debate on persecution and toleration Theocracy == References ==
In 305, Diocletian abdicated and was replaced by Galerius, his successor, who continued persecution in the East until 311, when he granted Christians forgiveness, freedom of worship and (implicitly) the status of religio licita.
See also References Bibliography Benn, Tony; Hood, Andrew (1993), Winstone, Ruth (ed.), Common Sense, Hutchinson, ISBN 0-09-177308-3 Goodwin, Stephen (12 December 1992).
She also complained of breach of her right to a family life under Art.8, because she was bound to work some Sundays, and her husband did not.
14307/88) is a landmark case of the European Court of Human Rights, decided in 1993 and concerning compatibility of certain sanctions for proselytism with Articles 7 and 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
Opposition Bishop Rudigier of Linz became known for his memorable struggle against the laws, which were hostile to the Church and against to the marriage and school laws.
European Court of Human Rights Lautsi then appealed to the European Court of Human Rights on 27 July 2006.
The Bill was passed during the premiership of The Duke of Wellington six years later for the Catholics of Ireland and Britain — without a veto.
The law ensured that citizens could use their tax dollars to support the church of their choice, not just the one officially sponsored by their community.
The Interconfessional laws were a series of 19th-century laws in Austria that were meant to install a government based on separation of church and state and passed on 25 May 1868.
All religious groups must obtain permits from the national Ministry of Guidance and Social Endowments, the state Ministry of Construction and Planning, and the local planning office before constructing new houses of worship.
Attitude towards Jews and Judaism Rhetoric by Palestinian militant groups include expressions of anti-Semitism.
Juridical personality allows a religious group to apply for all tax benefits available to nonprofit organizations.
The Shouwang Church (守望教会) is a Protestant house church in Beijing, China, and almost the biggest of about 3,000 of such congregations in the city.
The agreement between representatives of both sides, reached after meeting from 13 March to 20 March, declared the agreement from the Basel Council the basic law of the land.
In Sarajevo, Tuzla, Travnik, Zepce, Banja Luka, Bihac, and Zenica, students may attend Catholic school centers.
Other politicians in the Lok Sabha at New Delhi, and the Minister of State for Law condemned the Petition.
Every individual has the right to freely profess his/her religion and to disseminate it individually or collectively.
In September 2022, a 26-year-old man was arrested and charged under Uttar Pradesh's anti-conversion law.
The First Amendment to the United States Constitution was one of the first legal protections for freedom of religion without reference to any specific religion.
The Uttar Pradesh district court convicted him, sentenced him to five years of imprisonment and gave him a ₹40,000 fine.
Followers of other faiths shall be free within the bounds of law in the exercise and performance of their religious rights.
In 2007, the United States Department of State released a study of the state of religious freedom in the Palestinian territories as part of its annual international study.
Office of Public Policy The Office of Public Policy (OPP) is the Washington, D.C., political arm of the Center for Inquiry.
The Government imposed no formal restrictions on religious groups, and all religious communities were free to conduct public services and to open and operate social and charitable institutions.
Following months of debate a last-minute concession was offered—the Muslim and Jewish communities would have a year to provide evidence that animals slaughtered by traditional methods do not experience greater pain than those that are stunned before they are killed.
Members of minority religious groups are concentrated in the largest cities, including Asunción, Ciudad del Este, and Encarnación.
Swastikas and other Nazi symbols were painted on monuments, and many tombstones were damaged beyond repair.
For instance, the Taiwan Council for Religion and Peace, the China Religious Believers Association, and the Taiwan Religious Association are private organizations that promote greater understanding and tolerance among adherents of different religions.
During the wait, the following is forbidden: public worship services, distribution of literature and materials, the hiring of foreign clergy.
Religious freedom The Constitution of Uruguay provides for the freedom of religion and states that "the State supports no religion".
Recognized religious communities also continued to receive in-kind assistance, such as property on which to build houses of worship, from other government ministries and from local governments.
After the decentralization of the post-Carolingian period, this became the slogan of the Catholic Church in light of disapproval over lay warlords installing themselves as abbots and other high-profile churchmen.
In the 1850s, moves to increased religious toleration included the Liberty of Religious Worship Act 1855 and the Jews Relief Act 1858.
They requested permission from the Captains Regent to take the oath required by the Elections Act without reference to any religious text.
The National Assembly, the Council of States, and the Cabinet feature both Muslims and Christians in prominent roles.
In February 2007 the SPC filed a lawsuit in the Supreme Court over excessively lengthy legal procedures, largely because its earlier lawsuit against the alleged wrongful privatization of the cinema property had been pending before the Administrative Court for 3 years.
Additionally, similar practices (such as having citizens identify their religious preference to the government or on identification cards) can have different consequences depending on other sociopolitical circumstances specific to the countries in question.
Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights provides a right to freedom of thought, conscience, and religion.
Status of religious freedom Legal and policy framework Freedom of religion is significantly restricted.
Roman Catholic and non-denominational Christian churches have been established in Nouakchott, Atar, Zouerate, Nouadhibou, and Rosso.
Various other reforms were proposed along liberal lines, such as a single age of consent, abolition of blasphemy laws, and equal rights in law for homosexuals.
The Jewish community responded to these objections by assuring the public that the method was in fact humane.
A collection of the public general statutes passed in the 22nd year of the reign of Her Majesty Queen Victoria.
The registration issue has political as well as religious overtones, since it raises the question of whether the Orthodox Church should be oriented toward the Moscow Patriarchate or the Bucharest Patriarchate.
This agreement finished a long series of religious conflicts in the Czech lands and constituted a definitive end to the Hussite Wars.
Constitutional scholar George Williams, writing in 1994, criticised the court's literal interpretation of the provision and others in the Constitution, saying the court has "transformed the Constitution into a wasteland of civil liberties".
During the ongoing conflict over the anticlerical articles of the 1917 constitution, they systematically destroyed church buildings.
To register, religious associations must submit to the government their members’ personal data (e.g., names, addresses, personal identification numbers, and signatures), which the law says may not be shared with other public institutions or used in any other way.
Some Muslim religious leaders preach sermons on the official PA television station that included expressions of anti-Semitism.
The Hungarian government has been criticized for passing legislation based on religious ideas and outsourcing government duties and public services to churches.
Hinduism Hinduism is a minority faith in Bosnia-Herzegovina, represented mainly by the ISKCON movement.
The Chinese Communist crackdown on Christianity had paused in 2020 due to the 2019-2020 coronavirus pandemic.
The group, created to carry out the governor's orders, takes its name from its uniform of red shirts, black pants, and black and red military caps.
In 2007, the 'Religious Affairs Bureau' of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in South Korea took the lead in organizing groups such as the Korean Religious Council and the Council for Peaceful Religions to promote interfaith dialogue and understanding.
The move threatens the site’s egalitarian prayer section and could strain the relationship with the Reform Judaism, the largest branch of Judaism in the United States.
It describes itself as "protecting the equal rights of nonreligious Americans." The Secular Coalition has chapters in all 50 states and Puerto Rico, composed of lobbyists trained by the organization.
Common Sense, subtitled A New Constitution for Britain is a book written by the British Labour politician Tony Benn and Andrew Hood.
Eight states continue to have a religious test in their constitutions, but the clause is inoperable and unenforceable because of the 1961 Supreme Court decision.
Despite tensions between religious groups during the Bosnian War, Montenegro remained fairly stable, mainly due its population having a historic perspective on religious tolerance and faith diversity.
Religious demography Cape Verde is an archipelago consisting of 10 islands, 9 of which are inhabited.
The government requires Greek Orthodox religious instruction in public schools; non-Greek Orthodox pupils may be excused.
Christians are the third largest religious group, traditionally concentrated in the south and the Nuba Mountains.
Transnistrian authorities believe the attacks were propagated by the same people and claim they are investigating the incidents.
The case The case stemmed from a request of Soile Lautsi, a Finnish-born Italian national, against the School Council of a school in Abano Terme (province of Padua).
The nuns stated they possessed all necessary documents, including parental consent forms and identification for the women.
In September 2007 police arrested Jehovah's Witnesses José Ortega and Asunción Bernarda Ortega Gaona for refusing to allow doctors to give their daughter blood transfusions.
After the fall of Communism, Gorbachev had given much-needed breathing room to the practice of religion in Russia, whose culture's heart is Eastern Orthodoxy, but had also opened the door indiscriminately and generally to the practice of religion.
Concerning Article 6 (access to court), the Commission reaffirmed that the right of an individual to protect his reputation can be regarded as a civil right protected by Article 6, but did not extend this protection to a group, when the national legislation didn't foresee that.
Garrido also invited the First Congress of Socialist Students to meet in the state of Tabasco and created a form of socialist education which he termed "Rationalist".
If the parents are not married when the child is born, the baby is registered with the same affiliation as the parent who has custody of the child.
Forced religious conversion There were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S.
The Faculty of Theology spoke out against it, and Parliament's Church Committee therefore did not promote the proposal before Parliament.
The Coalition's member organizations, as of 2023, are: American Atheists American Ethical Union American Humanist Association Atheist Alliance of America Association of Secular Elected Officials Black Nonbelievers, Inc.
Former prisoners have reported that Falun Gong practitioners consistently received "the longest sentences and worst treatment" in labor camps, and in some facilities Falun Gong practitioners formed the substantial majority of detainees.
In May 2007 the Supreme Court ruled that the government's expropriation in 2005 of approximately 319,000 acres (1,290 km2) of land in Puerto Casado owned by Reverend Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church was unconstitutional.
Unconfirmed reports suggest that the Tajikistan government has attempted to restrict the influence of two popular Islamic scholars by stopping Muslims from outside the scholar's districts from coming to their mosques to worship, barring them from becoming members of the IRPT .
Pro studied in Mexico until 1914 when a massive wave of governmental anti-Catholicism forced the novitiate to dissolve and the Jesuits to flee to Los Gatos, California, in the United States.
As part of their public relations work, State agencies characterised these associations as a "sect", "youth sect", "youth religion" and "psycho-sect".
In March 1874 the Trier bishop Matthias Eberhard was put under arrest and died shortly after he was released from nine months of custody in 1876.
Federal Governments have twice proposed the amendment of Section 116, principally to apply its provisions to laws made by the states.
Religious peace and tolerance helped for development of the land, but it contributed to the future conflicts of interests between middle-class and nobility.
See also Religion in Croatia Human rights in Croatia Holy See-Yugoslavia relations References United States Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor.
Gladstone's decision came against strained relations with France and manoeuvring by "men on the spot" in Egypt.
After interrogating the two magistrates and after the two of them and Hart had submitted apologies for their actions, the governor and councilors settled on the schout as mainly responsible.
One cause of this was that Spanish colonial missions sent priests to convert indigenous people, who had always been a very small population in Uruguay.
The Sunzhuang Church was a church which was destroyed on June 12, 2020, when more than 200 Chinese Communist Party officials from different departments including the Zhengzhou High-Tech District's Ethnic and Religious Affairs Bureau brought cranes and heavy-duty machinery to the area.
Aaron Rhodes then acknowledged that the Moscow office of the IHFHR had received funding from the Church of Scientology to print a leaflet about religious freedom in Russia, and voiced his astonishment at the charge.
A compulsory curriculum requires the study of Christianity for Christian students and Islam for Muslim students in grades one through six.
Baptist view The basic concept of individual soul liberty, is that in matters of religion, each person has the liberty to choose what conscience or soul dictates is right, and is responsible to no one but God for the decision that is made.
It ruled by a vote of six-to-three that a Jehovah's Witness man's freedom to manifest his religion, protected by Article 9, had been violated by the Greek government.
Switzerland (permitted to require children to participate in mixed swimming lessons and enforce this through fines) Executief van de Moslims van België and Others v.
Satheesan called it a "police witch-hunt" and a "mob trial," accusing the Sangh Parivar of hypocrisy.
Finally when our law had been promulgated to the effect that they should conform to the institutes of antiquity, many were subdued by the fear of danger, many even suffered death.
According to the organization, keeping such religious symbols violates the separation of church and state as established by the Constitution of Brazil.
Persecution and tolerance are both the result of alterity, the state of otherness, and the question of how to properly deal with those who are 'outside' the defined identity.
The Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Associations (Russian: «Закон О свободе совести и о религиозных объединениях»), also known as the 1997 Law (Russian: «Закон 1997 года») is a Russian law passed and signed by President Boris Yeltsin on September 26, 1997.
The Serbian Orthodox Church accused the new legislation of being discriminatory, specifically raising concerns that it would allow the government to confiscate church property.
In 2023, the country was scored zero out of 4 for religious freedom; it was also noted that non-Muslim foreigners are only permitted to observe their religions privately.
In 2003 the government approved a Shia request to establish a court of cassation to oversee Shia personal status issues.
The attack on absolutism, the defence of the rule of law and the emphasis on the importance of the covenant made Lex, Rex a precursor to the social contract idea, and helped pave the way for the political theory of John Locke.
In May 2022, the Committee on Religion, Regulation of Traditions, Celebrations, and Ceremonies (CRA) announced that they will no longer register any new Christian churches.
It has an area of 1,557 square miles (4,030 km2) and a population of 458,000, according to the National Statistics Institute.
Epega (president of the Non-Governmental Organization Respeito Brasil Yourubá), Baptist priest Djalma Rosa Torres, Vaishnava Hindu priest Jagannatha Dhama Dasa and Milton R.
Reports in the Greek Cypriot press about an earlier incident at the same school, which reported that an 11-year-old male Turkish Cypriot student verbally insulted a Greek Cypriot student wearing a Christian cross, were blamed for inciting the latter event.
Orthodox Jewish law strictly prohibits women reading from the Torah, and to a lesser degree women wearing tallit and kippahs.
By an Act of Parliament – The Church of Scotland Act 1921 – the Articles Declaratory were held to be lawful, thus recognising the Church of Scotland as the national church in Scotland but independent from the state in matters spiritual.
Since God in his power is infinitely superior to any [secular] authority, the right of God is also infinitely superior to the right of any authority.
In March 2015, a 27-year-old Afghan woman was murdered by a mob in Kabul over false allegations of burning a copy of the Qur'an.
Sources often attribute the signing of the Tokyo peace treaty to this phenomenon, as it reduced the sense of national emergency that had previously fueled the militant patriotic activism.
Repeal of the Conventicle Act By 1818 there was a proposal to give the Quakers limited rights to organize.
For example, on October 13, 2006, authorities fined Polish citizen and Catholic priest Antoni Koczko $29 (62,000 rubles) for conducting an "unauthorized" religious service in Minsk, since he had been assigned to a church in Slutsk.
The bishops, and many of the clergy, were fined or imprisoned — notably, two archbishops, Ledóchowski of Gnesen-Posen and Melchers of Cologne; four bishops, Brinkman of Munster, Blum of Limburg, Forster of Breslau, Martin of Paderborn; one auxiliary bishop, Janiszewski of Posen.
However at the same time the 62nd article states that the Evangelical Lutheran Church shall be the national church (þjóðkirkja) and the national curriculum places emphasis on Christian studies.
Groups who do not register with the government are not allowed to set up bank accounts and may face being banned; group founders and board members can face up to one year in prison and a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 CFA francs.
The first three limbs prohibit the Commonwealth from making certain laws: laws "for establishing any religion"; laws "for imposing any religious observance"; and laws "for prohibiting the free exercise of any religion".
Overview of bill Under the provisions of the bill: The monarchy would be abolished and the constitutional status of the Crown ended.
Chakraborty wrote to the Secretary, Department of Home Government of West Bengal, demanding the ban of the Quran.
Shia worshipers gathered peacefully in public spaces to attend sermons and eulogies during Ashura and the government provided security to Shia neighborhoods.
The law redefined the state's relationship with religion, as the USSR president Mikhail Gorbachev had defined in on the Law of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic on Freedom of Worship passed on October 25, 1990, commonly known as the 1990 Law.
Although they singled out Feake for punishment, the ordinance they passed subsequent to the release from imprisonment and pardoning of the Hart and the magistrates maintains that all four of the town's officials were jointly at fault.
The French understand "freedom of religion" primarily as the freedom of the individual to believe or not to believe what any religion teaches.
The incident also drew commentary from national organizations focused on civil liberties and religious freedom, which argued that the assembly raised constitutional concerns.
Venugopal and other United Democratic Front (UDF) MPs from Kerala staged protests outside Parliament, demanding immediate release of the nuns and accountability for the injustice.
While non-Muslim expatriates are generally permitted to worship privately, public religious pluralism, proselytization, and activities perceived as contradicting Islamic principles are prohibited or tightly controlled.
In the same year, the country was rank as the 22nd most difficult place in the world to be a Christian.
Title V: Regulation of religious associations Article 25 declared all worship services open to the people.
20th century In 1965, the Second Vatican Council issued the Dignitatis Humanae, which stated the church's support for protecting religious liberty.
The Warsaw Confederation of 1573 was a groundbreaking document that established religious tolerance in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.
The Stefanus Prize is a human rights prize awarded to individuals for their outstanding contributions to defending freedom of religion or belief as defined by the Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
On April 28, 2025, the Supreme Court declined to entertain a fresh plea filed by petitioner Syed Alo Akbar challenging the Waqf (Amendment) Act, 2025.
The case was also significant, since the Commission recognised in its decision the right of a church to petition on behalf of its members, changing the previous practice.
Declining a blindfold, he faced his executioners with a crucifix in one hand and a rosary in the other and held his arms out in imitation of the crucified Christ and shouted out, "May God have mercy on you!
Mongolia: The Emblem of Mongolia has multiple Tibetan Buddhist symbols, including a Wheel of Dharma, a lotus, and the Three Jewels.
According to government sources, none of the criteria listed in related government documents on sects discuss theology; they only focus on the actions and the methods of the groups.
Request by the Church of Scientology to start proceedings against the publisher was rejected by the Supreme Court.
He also worked in the Klamath Basin on drug and alcohol recovery issues, where he was able to reconnect with his heritage and culture.
Most bishops and popes were trained lawyers rather than theologians, and much of the Christian thought of this period became little more than an extension of law.
The book claims that these Quran verses embody one of the main themes of the book: "Nor have these passages been culled at random from different chapters of the Quran with a view to making the book sound sinister.
Despite having historical roots as a Christian missions organization, Stefanus Alliance International in awarding the Stefanus Prize has recognized the efforts of individuals across different faiths.
Full text Promulgated in the name of the other official members of the Tetrarchy, the edict marked the end of persecutions against the Christians.
48pp Challenges to Shechita and its Protection by Government and Legislation in Late 20th Century Britain Neville Kesselman Kenneth Collins Abstract: A Community on Trial: The Aberdeen Shechita Case, 1893 Anti-Semitism without Hatred?
All associations must have a religious purpose, including: a creed, regular worship services, the conducting of religious education.
The opposition to the laws led to judicial proceedings against the bishop and to a fine, which was, however, at once remitted by the Emperor.
While the Taiwanese authorities do not collect or independently verify statistics on religious affiliation, they maintain registration statistics voluntarily reported by religious organizations.
According to the German weekly Die Zeit, Beijing police use around 4,500 officers to provide surveillance of Zhongguancun Square and of the homes of about 500 church members, to prevent the church from congregating.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the government has generally respected this right in practice.
Virtually all members of the Protestant Reformed and Unitarian Churches of Transylvania are ethnic Hungarians.
Whereas the 1858 petitions had related only to observances in the English Book of Common Prayer, the 1859 bill additionally deleted the 23 October prayer from the Irish Book of Common Prayer.
The Court unanimously held that there was a violation of Article 9 of the ECHR (freedom of conscience).
In 2020, 97.45% of the population were Muslim (Mainly Sunni), 1.67% had no religion and 0.69% were Christian; the largest non-Muslim groups include Russian Orthodox, Baptists, Roman Catholics, Seventh-day Adventists, Jehovah's Witnesses, Lutherans, Baha'is, Zoroastrians and Jews.
See also Religion in Colombia Christianity in Colombia Islam in Colombia Hinduism in Colombia Baháʼí Faith in Colombia History of the Jews in Colombia External links International Religious Freedom Report 2004 on Colombia, U.S.
The cultural mandates supported by Phibunsongkhram's government promoted patriotic behavior, dress, and speech, and as such, Khana Lueat Thai's calls for vigilance against foreign influences were often tolerated by local officials, as they aligned with the widely accepted state nationalism.
Homosexuality Homosexual activity is legal in Burkina Faso, and the country has neither passed a law prohibiting such activity nor has ever criminalized it.
Religious uniformity occurs when government is used to promote one state religion, denomination, or philosophy to the exclusion of all other religious beliefs.
On April 19, 2007, officials in the Ministry of Education announced that the Ministry, in conjunction with the MOJIA, was developing a new religious education curriculum to be taught in all public schools, beginning the next academic year.
On birth certificates issued to Muslims, the government does not differentiate between Sunnis and Shia.
They were accompanied by Sukaman Mandavi, and three adult tribal women, all above 18 years of age, from Narayanpur district.
Undersecretary Mustafa Lakadamyalı claimed that the move was to prevent the "abuse" of the permission to hold masses, also citing difficulties with the policing of more than one mass a day or frequent masses.
Their oath was considered invalid, and the applicants took the oath on the Gospels, maintaining their protest.
Religious peace of Kutná Hora (Czech: Kutnohorský náboženský mír) was concluded in March 1485 by the Czech lands Diet in Kutná Hora between Utraquist Hussites and Roman Catholics.
However, in 2013 the Sunzhuang Village Committee issued a demolition notice, citing a failure to follow procedures for building the church.
As the meeting opened, one of the City Council members made a motion to stop the delivery of the invocation by an atheist.
The bill proposed establishing the United Kingdom as a secular state and thus disestablishing the Church of England, removing the British Crown as an element of government, but continuing government with democratically elected members from constituencies, each seat electing a male and a female.
The Constitution recognizes Catholicism as "the religion of the majority" of citizens but does not designate it as the official state religion.
Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829 The necessity of receiving the sacrament as a qualification for office was abolished under George IV, and all acts requiring the taking of oaths and declarations against transubstantiation etc.
See also Annexation of the Metropolis of Kyiv by the Moscow Patriarchate References External links Assembly debate on 17 April 2024 (11th sitting) (see Doc.
In 1945, in the Yan'an Soviet, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) implemented a campaign to eliminate shamanic practices, especially those that it deemed unhygienic.
The Food Safety and Standards (Licensing and Registration of Food Businesses) Regulation, 2011 provides more precise stipulations surrounding the welfare of animals during the slaughter process, including that 'Animals are slaughtered by being first stunned and then exsanguinated (bled out).
The Jewish community, like most other small religious groups in Bosnia, including Protestants, has its strongest membership in Sarajevo.
On 14 December 2006, the defendants took their case to the Victorian Court of Appeal, which overturned the VCAT decision.
External links Articles Declaratory of the Constitution of the Church of Scotland at the official website of the Church of Scotland The full text of Articles Declaratory of the Constitution of the Church of Scotland at Wikisource
The Chinese government states that Uyghurs are being sent to vocational training centers in order to prevent the spread of extremism and to increase their employability.
In general, the subjects on the Karakax list all have relatives living abroad, a category that reportedly leads to "almost certain internment".
On December 27, 2022, the Constitutional Court recognized as constitutional the law "On Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations", which renamed of the UOC-MP.
The Utraquist and the Catholic faiths were declared equal in front of the law, and the religious peace (Landfried) was declared for the following 31 years.
Revival Contemporary discussions of integralism were renewed in 2014, focusing on criticism of liberalism and capitalism.
He then said that the change, to make him work Sundays breached his fundamental human right to freedom of religion, as a Christian.
The most notable example restriction was in Metz, whose Parlement's actions explicitly excluded certain rights for Jews within its domain, such as drafting of lists of grievances, unlike in the rest of France.
What resulted was the plunder of movable wealth (of which the monasteries had become the keepers during the period of Viking invasion) and the parcelling out of land and office as the temporal powers saw fit.
See also Dictatus papae (statements by Pope Gregory VII) Freedom of Religion References Papal primacy: from its origins to the present by Klaus Schatz.
Any funds inherited by the organization became the private property of the O'Hair family, never accounted for within the organization.
A person may then choose to be a Baptist, a member of another Christian denomination, an adherent to another world religion, or to choose no religious belief system, and the church, the government, family and friends may not make the decision or compel the person to choose otherwise.
21st century In the 21st century, some secular authorities around the world continue to exercise restrictions of religious expression, for example, Afghanistan and North Korea.
During the Supreme Court hearing on the Waqf (Amendment) Act, 2025, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the central government, assured the court that no waqf property would be denotified and no appointments would be made to the Central Waqf Council or State Waqf Boards until 5 May.
Confiscated land The defence of the rights of the Church with regard to the Christian schools had another negative result.
Under the law, parents of students under 18 years of age are required to request their children’s participation in religion classes, while students 18 and older may themselves ask to attend religion classes.
Parents have the right to decide their child's religion before age 15, but they must take into consideration the views of children once they reach the age of 7 and give their views priority once they reach the age of 12.
1363/1938 shows that the relevant criteria adopted by the Greek legislature are reconcilable with the foregoing if and in so far as they are designed only to punish improper proselytism, which the Court does not have to define in the abstract in the present case.
However, Islam is also established as the state religion of the country in article 3, and article 11 provides for legal restrictions on proselytizing to Muslims.
See also Religion in Belgium Human rights in Belgium References United States Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor.
The Theravada Buddhist tradition is widespread and strong in all provinces, with an estimated more 4,100 pagodas throughout the country.
In 1961, legislation gave Muslim Shari'a courts exclusive jurisdiction in matters of personal status.
'Party/Group of Thai Blood'; also known as Khana Luad/Lu'at Thai) Was an ultra-nationalist Thai movement active in the early 1940s.
However, kings generally tolerated Jewish merchants, investors, and bankers whose contributions benefited the economy of the Danish-Norwegian realm, while also seeking to restrict their movements, residence, and presence in public life.
Minority religious groups report that there is a good degree of tolerance in society for minority religious beliefs and traditions; there is no tolerance for conversion away from Islam.
According to the view, one's family relationships, church membership, or ecclesiastical or religious authorities cannot affect the salvation of one's soul from damnation.
In 2011, Zhang proposed "modern culture leads the development in Xinjiang" as his policy statement and started to implement his modern culture propaganda.
The French government, when challenged on issues of religious discrimination, states that it has no concern in any way with religious doctrine per se.
Sámi children were forced to attend missionary schools, where they were further indoctrinated in Christianity.
In the early era of French colonialism in Mali, the French authorities appointed Muslim relatives of El Hadj Umar Tall as chiefs of the Bandiagara—despite the fact that the area has been a Dogon area for centuries.
No one may make use of religion to engage in activities that disrupt public order, impair the health of citizens or interfere with the educational system of the state.
Although registration is not mandatory, 26 religious organizations have registered with the MOI's Religious Affairs Section.
Having earned this advantage these charities are further disadvantage in that their prospective donors are discouraged from donating monies to these charities because the donors are given tax relief for up to 5% of their aggregate income only.
With all my heart I forgive my enemies!" Before the firing squad was ordered to shoot, Pro raised his arms in imitation of Christ and shouted the defiant cry of the Cristeros, "¡Viva Cristo Rey!" – "Long live Christ the King!".
Government response to the Remonstrance The signers of the Remonstrance followed correct procedure in having the town schout, Tobias Feake, submit it to the provincial schout, Nicasius de Sille.
From 16 to 22 March 1951, a closed trial took place before the Military District Court at 82 Koszykowa Street in Warsaw.
The law angered many Catholics, who had recently begun to rally to the cause of the Republic, supported by Leo XIII's Inter innumeras sollicitudines 1892 encyclical (Au Milieu des sollicitudes) and the Cardinal Lavigerie's toast in 1890 favour of the Republic.
See also Religion in Burkina Faso Islam in Burkina Faso Christianity in Burkina Faso Roman Catholicism in Burkina Faso References United States Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor.
Formal status of religious freedom The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, provided that "Christian morality and public order" are respected, and other laws and policies contributed to the generally free practice of religion.
Title III: Buildings of worship Article 12 (amended in 1998) declared all buildings which the state had made available to religious organizations the property of the state, pursuant to the following articles.
The Conventicle Act remained in place for native Swedes until 1858, which completely restricted their freedom of worship outside of that of the Church of Sweden, whose status was regulated by law as a state church.
"Touched by the misfortunes of my fellow citizens and sensitive to the growth and strength of my native country, I have expressed my thoughts," he said.
states including New Jersey, Delaware and Virginia explicitly ban the usage of religious tests in their own constitutions.
Wherefore, for this our indulgence, they ought to pray to their God for our safety, for that of the republic, and for their own, that the republic may continue uninjured on every side, and that they may be able to live securely in their homes.
Muslims are not strictly bound by the law of India and are permitted to operate separately under a Sharia system for civil issues.
On March 5, the police raided their meeting place after Friday prayers, detaining several members and subsequently deporting three Syrian citizens for not having proper legal residence documents.
The authority may extend the deadline by an additional 120 days if the claimants prove they made a concerted effort to obtain the evidence, usually in the possession of other state authorities, but were unable to do so.
Legislative history The political and religious aspects of Anglican identity began to separate after Catholic emancipation culminated in the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829.
According to Human Rights Watch, Christians who met in private homes, including those involved in underground churches and house churches, and did not register with the authorities, were repeatedly detained, fined, or harassed by the police.
Instead, each person is responsible to God for one's own personal faith in Jesus Christ and his death and resurrection.
Persecution of Rutherford during the Stuart Restoration and burning of the book After the Stuart Restoration, the authorities cited Rutherford for high treason, but his death intervened before the charge could be tried.
This work ended up playing a role in inspiring the American Revolution with its strong stance in favor of rebellion against unjust monarchs if they are tyrannical.
Quackwatch In February 2020, Quackwatch, founded by Stephen Barrett, became part of CFI, which announced it plans to maintain its various websites and to receive Barrett's library later in the year.
On July 3–5, 2006, Cyprus cohosted with Malaysia the second Asia-Europe Meeting Interfaith Dialogue, which sought to promote greater understanding between different religions and to help combat terrorism.
In 1935, after he ordered his Red Shirts to kill Catholic activists in Mexico City who were seeking to return to Tabasco, Garrido was forced to step down and into exile in Costa Rica.
Chakraborty thereafter met Chandmal Chopra, who also wrote to the Department of Home Government of West Bengal on March 16, 1985.
In addition, the Treaty of Lausanne explicitly guarantees the security and protection of both Greek and Armenian Orthodox Christian minorities and the Turkish-Jews.
All schools except international schools are required to provide four hours of Islam education every week.
Prior to 1974, the country experienced a long period of strife between its Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities.
When closed with all the others, it continued to hold casual meetings that accomplished little more than camaraderie among the members.
Background On February 2, 2022, a Christian revival assembly was held at Huntington High School during instructional hours.
A total of 26 people were arrested on charges of wiretapping and spying, including five police officers.
Overview in early 2000s The rest of this article is informed by the US State Dept 2007 report on Religious Freedom.
The initial version of the Austrittgesetz exempted Jews, who were not permitted to leave Judaism as a religion, even if they left the community of one's birth.
Freedom of expression Films Movies which depict people considered prophets in Islam are generally censored or banned as the depiction of prophets is considered "haraam" (not allowed) under Islam.
France was seriously unhappy, having lost control of the canal that it built and financed and had dreamed of for decades.
Phibunsongkhram adopted an aggressive anti-imperialist stance, supporting war claims to "recover" lands lost to France.
In 1833 a new proposal was advanced, this time for "the free exercise of religion by all Christian religious sects", by Søren Anton Wilhelm Sørenssen.
Its motto, designated in 1996, is: "Together for the persecuted." History Stefanus Alliance International was established in 1967 by Monrad Norderval, Anutza Moise, Vemund Skard, Else-Marie Skard and Gulbrand Øverbye.
The constitution also states, "the King shall at all times profess the Evangelical-Lutheran religion," and that national values shall remain anchored in the country's Christian and humanistic heritage.
All religious faiths and churches are equally free before the law." Freedom of religion The constitution provides for freedom of religion.
The Court also appointed three nodal counsels to coordinate arguments and directed them to determine among themselves who would represent the consolidated petitions during the hearing on May 5.
Early life William Ewart Gladstone was born on 29 December 1809 at 62 Rodney Street in Liverpool, the fourth son of Sir John Gladstone, a wealthy Scottish merchant, slave owner, planter and Tory politician; and his second wife, Anne MacKenzie Robertson.
Other religious statistics The National Administrative Department of Statistics (DANE) does not collect religious statistics, and accurate reports are difficult to obtain.
The introduction of the bill was intended more for public discussion than with any real hope that it would become law.
A report in 2021 noted that despite some changes in government and society, the small communities of religious minorities (including Hindus, Sikhs, Christians, Ahmadi Muslims and Baháʼís) remained endangered, without the ability to observe their faith publicly for fear of violent reprisal.
The Chamber argued that the "negative" freedom of religion was not limited to the absence of religious services or religious education: it extended to practices and symbols expressing, in particular or in general, a belief, a religion or atheism.
For example, the government provides the Catholic Church with free television broadcast time for religious services.
Historical perspectives The intolerance, and even the active persecution of religious minorities (sometimes religious majorities as in modern Bahrain or the Pre-Dutch Indonesian kingdoms), has a long history.
Article 282 of the code exempts non-Muslims from the code's provisions, allowing them to follow their own religious rules pertaining to family or personal status.
In January 1894, Gladstone wrote that he would not "break to pieces the continuous action of my political life, nor trample on the tradition received from every colleague who has ever been my teacher" by supporting naval rearmament.
On the night of 21 April 1950, a group of several dozen Security Office officers stormed the Branch Office in Łódź.
The court granted the injunction, and the Church's petition was rejected by the Supreme Court of Sweden.
More commonly, seminarians were sent abroad for training, although such stop-gap measures did not nearly make up for the losses imposed by the May Laws.
Although it made little headway in changing official government policy towards non-Muslims in Khartoum, the commission created a forum for dialogue on religious matters that was previously nonexistent; it obtained release or leniency for some non-Muslims arrested for violating Shari'a law.
Facts In 1973, the Church of Scientology of Sweden placed an advertisement for an E-meter in its periodical.
Ten countries, 33 MEPs (jointly) and several NGOs were authorised as third parties to present written observations, several others were refused.
Weatherhead, published by the Board of Practice and Procedure of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland (Edinburgh, 1997), ISBN 0-86153-246-5.
Religious demography In 2019, 74.57% of the population were Muslim, 17.93% were Christian and 7.48% were 'other', mainly Hindus and Buddhists; there were also a small number of Ahmadi Muslims in Kuwait.
Pagan The Kishinev community a "Patrimonial Ring" ("Родовое Кольцо") unites adherents of Slavic vernacular religion.
The Zaman newspaper, which is the most prominent pro-Gülen newspaper in Turkey and also one of the most widely circulated, carried headlines such as 'An educational coup' and 'Such a law was never even seen in the coup years'.
The new law earned Gustav III a letter of thanksgiving from Pope Pius VI, and the king responded by expressing his joy at having won the approval of such an enlightened ruler.
In all circumstances except mental incapacitation, the father, regardless of custody decisions, retains the right to make certain legal decisions for his children, such as guardianship of any property belonging to the child, until the child reaches legal age.
In September 2006, a court convicted of attempted murder and of inciting ethnic and religious strife, and sentenced to 16 years in prison, a man who stabbed eight persons during evening prayers in the Chabad synagogue in Moscow in January 2006.
Many Hindu advocacy groups have protested what they allege is a systematic plan of temple cleansing in Malaysia.
However, they have simultaneously declared "that the human person has a right to religious freedom," a move that some traditionalist Catholics argue is at odds with previous doctrinal pronouncements.
The 1648 Treaty gave nations the right of sovereignty and it also allowed minority Christian denominations to exist within the Holy Roman Empire.
Marriages conducted by the religious communities having agreements with the state are officially recognized, eliminating the need to register the marriages in the civil registry office.
Locke's proposed relation between a tolerant state and the humans, who were associated to it as citizens, had to be granted by a social contract.
The constitution sets forth the criteria for all associations, including religious ones, and states that the association may not be military or armed; may not be aimed at promoting violence, racism, xenophobia, or dictatorship; and may not be in violation of the penal law.
People practice traditional indigenous religious beliefs throughout the country, especially in rural communities.
Stuyvesant did not relent in his efforts to require the inhabitants of Flushing to support a pastor of his choosing nor did he change the method for electing a schout.
On February 9, 2022, Max Nibert, Cameron Mays, and Samuel Felinton led hundreds of students in a coordinated walkout that continued over several school days.
In some schools, the religious curriculum is a Christian-oriented “Bible knowledge” course, while in others it is an interfaith “moral and religious education” course drawing from the Christian, Islamic, Hindu, and Baháʼí faiths.
cut open while still alive for their kidneys, livers, hearts, lungs, cornea, and skin to be removed and turned into commodities for sale".
The About–Picard law Commentators often refer to the Law 2001-504 of June 12, 2001 as the About–Picard law, from the name of its rapporteurs (parliamentarians who report upon the draft law), senator Nicolas About (UDF center-right party) and deputy Catherine Picard (PS center-left party).
The employer had done everything to accommodate his needs, and so when he refused alternative offers and still refused to work, his dismissal was fair.
Education Religious instruction is mandatory for pupils in grades 4-8 in all schools; non-Muslim pupils may opt out after two years.
He supported the principles of limited government, constitutionalism, and separation of church and state, while opposing both royal absolutism and religious toleration.
On 25 May 1808, Henry Grattan, in moving for a parliamentary committee to consider the claims of the Catholics, said he was authorised by them to propose that no Catholic bishop be appointed without the entire approbation of His Majesty.
Mauritania follows the Maliki madhab, which has certain unique laws not applicable to other madhabs.
The committee was composed of following members in 2020: Ingvill Thorson Plesner (researcher at HL-senteret), Erling Rimehaug (editor and writer), Anne Beathe Kristiansen Tvinnereim (politician]), and Ingunn Yri Øystese (board member of the Stefanus Alliance International).
The act was followed in 1782 by the Judereglementet ('The Jewish Regulations'), which guaranteed freedom of religion specifically for Jewish immigrants.
On 17 December 2004, the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (VCAT) ruled that Nalliah, Scot and the Christian group Catch the Fire Ministries had vilified Muslims at the seminar, and in a newsletter and website article authored by the group.
Tony Benn argued that due to Charter 88 having to maintain a coalition of judges, lawyers, as well as politicians from the Liberal Party, Social Democratic Party and some establishment figures in the Labour Party, that Charter 88 could not properly advocate for economic and social rights.
He received the award on November 11, 2005 for his "fearless and courageous commitment to freedom of belief and human rights in Egypt." Selection Committee The laureates are chosen by a committee appointed by the Stefanus Alliance International.
Tzanetakos had accumulated over $6,000 in donations he intended to use to instigate a scholarship fund sponsored by the Miami chapter.
Indeed, the deepest root of self-sacrificing surrender for the lowly was his passionate love for Jesus Christ and his ardent desire to be conformed to him, even unto death.
The MERA approved a limited number of "church visas" to professional clergy of non-Islamic congregations.
Students left the building and gathered outside the school, holding signs and chanting slogans calling for religious freedom and the separation of church and state.
However, it found the interference necessary in a democratic society, stating that "the test of 'necessity' in the second paragraph of Article 10 should therefore be a less strict one when applied to restraints imposed on commercial 'ideas'" (compared with 'political' ideas).
Kokkinakis appealed to the ECtHR under Articles 7, 9, 10 and 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
Private schools must hire a special teacher for teaching Islamic education, even in Christian schools.
Franz Kafka learned Yiddish and Hebrew as an adult and he had a great interest for Hasidism as well as for rabbinic literature.
History Religious uniformity was common in many modern theocratic and atheistic governments around the world until fairly modern times.
However, Rutherford's views on Church-State relations and his opposition to religious toleration were not shared by Locke.
English translation An English translation from the original Warsaw Confederation articles, with Latin phrases retained, provided by contemporary historians Tristan Korecki and Philip Earl Steele, is available online at the Polish History Museum in Warsaw.
Scholarly opinions Some Jewish feminist activists in Israel have seen the Women of the Wall's activities as being inconsistent with their political activities.
In some instances, police directly participated in the anti-Jehovah's Witness activities; in others, they censured those who were harassing the Jehovah's Witnesses.
Other issues of concern that remained between the two groups included the continued belief that Roman Catholics were proselytizing in the country and a proposal by a local priest to open a Catholic Carmelite convent whose main mission would be to work with orphans in the city of Nizhniy Novgorod.
Another victory for the Catholics was the recognition of the Roman Catholic primate of Poland, Jakub Uchański, as interrex, who would henceforth convene assemblies, appoint, and crown the king.
As demolition efforts began in 2013, government officials increased tension by cutting off the church's electricity and water supply.
He was not dismissed because he was a Christian believer, but simply because his religious requirements were not compatible with the job.
Invocations since 2014 After the Greece, New York, decision by the Supreme Court, Atheists of Florida members have delivered invocations on several occasions to various local government bodies, all without incident.
For Art 8, ‘given the almost inevitable compromise and balance between work and family commitments, particularly in families where both partners work’ there was no interference, to constitute any violation.
Leadership On April 3, 2018, Stefanus Alliance International publicized its decision to appoint Ed Brown as the new secretary-general as of August 1, 2018, replacing Hilde Skaar Vollebæk.
Electric shocks were regularly administered, with electrodes attached to sensitive areas like feet or chins.
His position as treatment coordinator allowed him to combine AA principles with traditional Native spiritual practices, particularly the daily sweat lodge ceremony.
Booker and Glass defend the court's interpretation of the provision and other Constitutional rights, saying "the High Court can only work with the constitutional provisions before it".
He declared at the meeting that his own comparative studies on philosophy had meant he could not accept Islam, and declared himself to be an atheist.
See also Early Rain Covenant Church – a house church in Chengdu, Sichuan, southwestern China References External links Official website
Significance Late-16th-century Poland–Lithuania stood between the Orthodox Tsardom of Moscow in the East, the Muslim Ottoman Empire to the South, and Western Europe, torn between Protestant Reformation and Counter-Reformation, to the North and West.
Public schools conduct instruction in French, and public bilingual schools conduct classes in French and Arabic.
Reactions Governments United States: On April 9, 2024, an official letter was sent to Ukraine from the US Commission on International Religious Freedom expressing concern about the situation caused by the consideration of draft law No.
History The Stefanus Prize was established in 2005 by the Norwegian NGO Stefanus Alliance International, and has been awarded biennially since 2008.
Proceedings and judgment In 1997, the European Court of Human Rights concluded unanimously that there had been a violation of Article 9.
Enforcement of the revocation relaxed under the reign of Louis XV, but the revocation remained law for a century.
Catholicism The Catholic Church in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the third largest religion in Bosnia and Herzegovina making up around less than eighth of the nations population.
As a result, six TÜBİTAK experts at were fired in late February, with Minister Fikri Işık accusing them of supporting Gülen and accusing the parallel structure in general of infiltrating TÜBİTAK.
On 13 August, it was revealed in tribunal that the matter had been settled overnight, and Wilson read a statement acknowledging that Watts was not a Satanist and expressing "regret for any hurt felt by Ms Watts in consequence of his press release".
A magistrate of Shari'a, who heads a separate government commission, decides the dates for observing religious holidays and addresses the nation on these holidays.
In 2022, tensions continue over land use, as many people associate herders with Islam and farmers with Christianity.
(Repealed) Article 43 (amended in 2007) set a deadline of three months by which measures for implementation will be determined.
The Consumer Ombudsman, acting upon complaints, requested the Market Court place an injunction prohibiting the use of certain passages in the advertisement, namely that it was "an invaluable aid to measuring man's mental state and changes in it".
citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.
However, the observances which the prayers fulfilled were mandated by various acts of Parliament; so a bill, initially called the Occasional Forms of Prayer Bill, was introduced in February 1859 to repeal the provisions which were no longer being enforced.
The Government accords "recognized" status to Catholicism, Protestantism (including Evangelicals and Pentecostals), Judaism, Anglicanism (separately from other Protestant groups), Islam, and Orthodox (Greek and Russian).
As a result, several Protestant churches and "nontraditional" groups were at an impasse: denied permission to convert their properties for religious use because they were not registered, but unable to register due to the lack of a legal address.
Alfred Leo Smith (November 6, 1919 – November 19, 2014) was a Klamath Nation drug and alcohol counselor and Native American activist from Oregon.
Christian communities maintained that the law heavily restricts their activities, suppresses freedom of religion, and legalizes criminal prosecution of individuals for their religious beliefs.
This degree of diversity tolerated within a particular church is described as ecclesiastical tolerance, and is one form of religious toleration.
Relationship to the State Khana Lueat Thai operated within the broader ideological climate during Phibunsongkhram's wartime nationalism, and despite never having been an official organ of the state, its ultranationalist messaging aligned well with the government's cultural mandates.
In response to these claims, AKP deputy leader Hüseyin Çelik claimed that 'crows would laugh' at allegations that the Gülen Movement had taken over the state.
This protection is extended only to what are called "normal religious activities", generally understood to refer to religions that submit to state control via the State Administration for Religious Affairs.
In 1891 the law was changed, among other things by giving priests or pastors of dissenter churches the right to marry.
The Racial and Religious Tolerance Act 2001 is an act of the Parliament of Victoria, Australia, that makes behaviour that incites or encourages hatred, serious contempt, revulsion or severe ridicule against another person or group of people, because of their race or religion, unlawful in Victoria.
In 2023, the country scored zero out of 4 for religious freedom; minors and most women are banned from attending mosques, and religious groups need to be registered.
Those who are registered as non-religious (not belonging to any religious group) also pay the tax, which is used to support the University of Iceland.
The time's outliers were kept behind the scenes at the workplace and in educational settings to avoid misrepresenting the kingdom.
Within the major Protestant traditions there were a total of 121 denominations, approximately 90 percent of which are separate Presbyterian groups.
In Muslim-dominated regions, relations between Muslims and Russian Orthodox believers were generally harmonious.
Pope Pius VII declared that Quarantotti "ought not to have written that letter without authority from the Holy See".
Soul competency is a Christian theological perspective on the accountability of each person before God.
The services are conducted at members' homes or in rented conference rooms; its other activities include 40 biblical reading groups, choir practice and catechism.
Sometimes non-Muslim FGM practitioners performed the procedure during baptismal ceremonies because the baby was expected to cry during the ceremony.
Judgment The Court held that the length of the proceedings was excessive and failed to meet the "reasonable time" requirement.
Facts The applicants, Cristoforo Buscarini and Emilio Della Balda, were elected to the Grand and General Council (the parliament of the Republic of San Marino) in 1993.
Mergan had been allowed access to personal effects, and used a phone to take videos of the camp he is interned in.
In 1972, Al Smith began to work at Sweathouse Lodge, part of the Chicano-Indian Study Center of Oregon founded on the site of Camp Adair.
A similar lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of marriage law in Texas was dismissed in August 2019.
In 1871 Bismarck had the Pulpit Law implemented into the German Strafgesetzbuch Penal Code, prohibiting any public statement of priests in political affairs.
In 1961 the United States Supreme Court heard a challenge to a clause in the Maryland State Constitution that required "a declaration of belief in the existence of God" in order for a person to hold "any office of profit or trust in this State".
The law at all levels protects this right in full against abuse, either by governmental or private actors.
Non-Ibadi and non-Sunni religious communities individually constitute less than 7 percent of the population and include, Hindus, Buddhists, Sikhs, and Christians.
Societal abuses and discrimination According to the Jewish Policy Research in the UK, Belgium had the lowest level of anti-Semetic incident across the 12 European countries they analysed.
Individuals have also the freedom to profess non-theistic and atheistic beliefs as well as the right not to profess any religion or belief.
This includes the freedom to change a religion or belief, and to manifest a religion or belief in worship, teaching, practice and observance, subject to certain restrictions that are "in accordance with law" and "necessary in a democratic society".
In Nazi Germany, smaller religious minorities such as the Jehovah's Witnesses and the Baháʼí Faith were banned in Germany, while the eradication of Judaism was attempted along with the genocide of its adherents.
The Articles Declaratory of the Constitution of the Church of Scotland – often known as the Declaratory Articles - were drawn up early in the 20th century to facilitate the union of the Church of Scotland and the United Free Church of Scotland.
The declaration claimed that Turkish troops forced the priest conducting the service to remove his vestments and ordered everybody to leave the church, thus violating the European Convention on Human Rights.
Meaning of "religion" A threshold test considered by courts applying Section 116 is whether a belief seeking constitutional protection is a "religion".
The Muslim religious establishment also attended, specifically the Imam of the grand mosque on behalf of the High Council of Islamic Affairs.
Impact Following the walkout, the controversy led to increased scrutiny of school-sponsored events involving religious content.
The Bill was lost; the Irish bishops had declared that they could not accept the Bill "without incurring the guilt of schism".
Therefore, it has found a breach of Article 6 § 1 of the European Convention on Human Rights (rights to fair trial), unanimously.
The founder of the church, Zhang Rongliang, was charged of leading a "cult" and sentenced to two years in forced labor camp in December 2000.
In particular, religious, sectarian, and ethnic minorities including Shia Hazaras and Ahmadis had fled to neighbouring countries such as Iran and Pakistan.
In 2007 then-President Duarte made several discriminatory remarks against the Catholic clergy in an attempt to discredit candidate Fernando Lugo, a resigned Catholic bishop, who won the election.
Fidesz has been accused of using state media to spread xenophobic messaging, including messaging that targets Jewish and Muslim populations.
Under the Edict of Versailles, Roman Catholicism continued as the state religion of the Kingdom of France, but relief was offered to non-Catholic worshippers: Calvinist Huguenots, Lutherans and Jews alike.
While seven Christian churches were legally recognized, others were not, including the Indian Orthodox, Mar Thoma, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter‑day Saints (Mormons), and Seventh-day Adventist Church.
Activities Stefanus Alliance International provides support, care, and practical help for churches and individuals who are persecuted or oppressed because of their religious beliefs.
About 0.8% of South Koreans follow other religions, including Won Buddhism, Confucianism, Cheondoism, Daesun Jinrihoe, Islam, Daejongism, Jeungsanism and Eastern Orthodox Christianity.
See also UK employment discrimination law UK labour law Human Rights Act 1998 Notes External links ECHR admissibility decision
Freedom of religion in South Korea is provided for in the South Korean constitution; the South Korean government has generally respected this right in practice.
ScienceSaves ScienceSaves is a nationwide pro-science campaign to generate an appreciation for the role of science.
Religious believers have also been charged under article 300 of the criminal code, which forbids using heretical organizations to "undermine the implementation of the law".
After his release, Samarkand said that he faced endless brainwashing and humiliation, and that he was forced to study communist propaganda for hours every day and chant slogans giving thanks and wishing for a long life to Xi Jinping.
Italian Government reaction On 28 January 2010, the Italian government lodged an appeal to the Grand Chamber of the Court.
Reports of Uyghurs living or studying abroad being detained upon return to Xinjiang are common, which is thought to be connected to the re-education camps.
In 2005, a legal action by judge Roberto Arriada Lorea, from Porto Alegre, received wider media coverage.
The 2006 Government Information Office Yearbook, the Religious Affairs Section of the Ministry of the Interior (MOI) states that 35 percent of the population consider themselves Buddhist and 33 percent Taoist.
Perhaps the greatest Christian thinker of the Middle Ages was Thomas Aquinas, who continues to be highly influential in Catholicism.
International views In 2022, Freedom House rated Mauritanian religious freedom as 2 out of 4, noting that while apostasy is a crime punishable by death, to date, no one has been executed for the crime.
Special procedures are required to amend the Articles Declaratory (see Article VIII), but Article I cannot be altered.
The government condemned the November 22 attack as an aberration, not indicative of a broader atmosphere of discrimination or racial hatred against Turkish Cypriots.
The next day, as Pro walked from his cell to the courtyard and the firing squad, he blessed the soldiers, knelt, and briefly prayed quietly.
Under this law, public worship was regulated and established churches were recognized by the government.
The police released Lukasik after a few hours but held Bokun overnight despite his cardiovascular condition.
A "church tax" is collected by the government and is paid out to churches and religious groups according to the number of members.
In the United States, the First Amendment to the Constitution (1791) prohibits the federal government from establishing or prohibiting a religion, and in 1947 the U.S.
The Secular Coalition works to increase visibility and respect for irreligious, nontheistic viewpoints in the United States and to protect and strengthen the secular character of the U.S.
To the third they answered that they would advise the people "not to agree to his Majesty's nomination if it could be avoided; if unavoidable, the king to nominate one of three to be recommended by the Provincial bishops".
There are reports of young men in Zanzibar being recruited into organizations such as al-Shabaab and ISIS-M.
The states follow the similar principles of anti-religious conversion commonly described as conversion due to force or inducement or by fraudulent means.
The Turkish Cypriot daily newspaper Afrika, in a front page article, criticised those who claim that there is freedom of religion in Northern Cyprus when the religious books were confiscated.
Copsey v WWB Devon Clays Ltd [2005] EWCA Civ 932; [2005] IRLR 811 is a UK employment discrimination law case, concerning the right to freedom of religion under Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
He argued that interim relief should not be granted without hearing the government's position on a law passed by Parliament.
According to many officials and interlocutors, most citizens regarded Islam as one of their society's most distinctive characteristics and believed that having it established as the state religion promotes harmony and national identity.
The FRS sent a written notification to the church stating that if they violated their charter again, the FRS would file a suit to close the church.
The final act was the law of 1951, which allowed for complete freedom of conscience by allowing citizens to renounce or abandon one religious confession without replacing it with another, thereby formally also legalizing atheism.
On 7 May 1992 she was told that her contract of employment was to be amended to include Sunday as a normal working day, on a rota basis, with no enhanced rate of pay.
Disestablishment Disestablishment is the process of repealing a church's status as an organ of the state.
Lavater serves here as a more or less moderate example of the hypocritic religious man, whose religion is the favoured and the dominating one within the political system.
Meanwhile, Jehovah's Witnesses perceived the repressions as a collaboration between state authorities and Roman Catholic hierarchs.
As a treaty, not a declaration, is legally binding, the signing of the human rights declaration is a public pledge of commitment.
However, the Commission does not consider that such an issue arises on the facts of the present case.
Persecution of Hindus For example, Hindus have been one of the targeted and persecuted minorities in Pakistan.
India India adopted accommodationism in its Constitution in 1947, supported by secularists such as Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, and B.
The modern concept of a separate civil government was relatively unknown until expounded upon by Roger Williams, a Christian minister, in The Bloudy Tenent of Persecution (1644) shortly after he founded the American colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations in 1636.
During the reporting period, the tensions between the Vatican and the ROC notably decreased, although the Patriarchy in Moscow continued to object to the transfer of the Ukrainian Greek-Catholic See from Lviv to Kyiv, Ukraine, which occurred in August 2005.
During the elections, candidates from religious political groups conducted their campaigns without any interference from the Government.
The government administrates religious instruction in private schools, funds religious organizations the same way as other NGOs, and does not regulate religious activity unless it contradicts the constitution.
Article X of the French Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, which influenced the European Convention, declares freedom of religious opinion as a universal right.
Mission The mission of the Secular Coalition for America is to advocate for the equal rights of nonreligious Americans and defend the separation of religion and government.
Some leaders in these congregations claimed, however, that the number of approved clergy was insufficient to handle the demand for worship and therefore limited the natural growth of these congregations.
The government issued several warnings about the sect using adjectives like "destructive" and "pseudo-religious" to describe them, and the accusation was raised that their members are manipulated.
The Bill proposed abolishing the British monarchy, with the United Kingdom becoming a "democratic, federal and secular Commonwealth of Britain", or in effect a republic with a codified constitution.
References External links ECtHR judgment Extracts from Constitutional Court ruling Whole CC decision(in German)
If their parents are married and belong to different religious groups, the babies are not registered in any church until the parents agree on how to register them.
Benn wrote an article, summarising the book's contents, published in Keith Sutherland's book The Rape of the Constitution?
The church was forced to change headquarters more than 20 times, and was prevented from buying or renting a church building.
On February 19, 2026 Israel’s Supreme Court ruled that repairs to the egalitarian section of the Wall, promised by the government a decade ago, must begin.
The 1928 "Standards for retaining or abolishing gods and shrines" formally abolished all cults of gods with the exception of human heroes such as Yu the Great, Guan Yu and Confucius.
So the major population was still excluded from participation and could not identify with the state and its authorities.
The remaining churches could be used for one of the following three feasts: the church's Name Day, Easter or Christmas.
Instead, concepts of tolerance began to grow during the crusades from efforts to define legal limits and the nature of co-existence.
Taiwan's government generally respects freedom of religion in practice, with policies which contribute to the generally free practice of religion.
Serbian Orthodox Church: Patriarch Porfirije said that he received the news about the law with "deep indignation".
In 2021, the Unia agency reported 81 anti-Semitic incidents, a decrease from 2020; half of these were online.
Indian National Congress leader Rahul Gandhi termed the incident "persecution" and "BJP-RSS mob rule," stating that it reflects a dangerous pattern of systematic persecution of minorities under the current regime.
The Statesman reported that "at least 12 people were killed and 100 wounded all are poor Hindus" in a border town of Bangladesh during a demonstration of 1000 people.
State atheism was first practiced for a brief period in Revolutionary France and later it was practiced in Revolutionary Mexico and Marxist-Leninist states.
Based on practices common in English towns, these were generally more liberal than the ones granted to New Netherland's Dutch communities and the charter granted to the applicants from Flushing was no exception.
Uttar Pradesh The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, approved in 2021, enforces conviction of offenders one to ten years in prison, or two to ten years in case of a minor, woman or a member of scheduled caste or scheduled tribe.
It was introduced by Benn a number of times until Benn's retirement in 2001, but never achieved a second reading.
The Hungarian Communist Party briefly took control of the country in 1919 and established the Hungarian Soviet Republic with a policy of state atheism.
This link contributed to the ethnic conflicts of the 1990s and to the perpetration of violence and intimidation against religious persons, institutions, and symbols of all religious groups.
Uruguay has no official religion, as Church and State were officially separated with the Constitution of 1918.
His coffin was transported on the London Underground before his state funeral at Westminster Abbey, at which the Prince of Wales (the future King Edward VII) and the Duke of York (the future King George V) acted as pallbearers.
Robyn Blumner succeeded Lindsay as CEO in January 2016 when CFI announced that it was merging with the Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science.
Religious groups may register with the government as nonprofit organizations in order to receive tax breaks.
Many citizens, including politicians and legal experts, have protested against the display of religious symbols in Brazilian government facilities as early as 1891.
Ensuing controversy led to public demonstrations of several tens of thousands of people, as well as disruption in parliament by ministers belonging to the Democratic Front trying to prevent the passage of the new law.
Religious test for a Monarch The Sovereign of the United Kingdom is, in effect, required to take a religious test, as a result of the Coronation Oath Act 1688, Bill of Rights 1688, Act of Settlement 1701, and the Accession Declaration Act 1910.
This edict is published at Nicomedia on the day before the Kalends of May, in our eighth consulship and the second of Maximinus.
Former secretaries-general include Lasse Trædal (1982–1989), John Victor Selle (1989–2002), Bjørn Wegge (2002–2013), Hans Aage Gravaas (2013–2017) and Hilde Skaar Vollebæk (2017–2018).
There are approximately 300,000 to 400,000 Muslims (2.0 percent of the population), predominantly ethnic Cham, who generally are found in towns and rural fishing villages on the banks of the Tonle Sap and Mekong rivers and in Kampot Province.
Following the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, restrictions on religion were loosened despite a continuing decline in the religious population.
See also Human rights in Chad Religion in Chad References United States Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor.
820/2022 "On the decision of the National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine dated December 1, 2022 'On certain aspects of the activities of religious organizations in Ukraine and the application of personal special economic and other restrictive measures (sanctions)'"
However, at the symposium on law and religion in 2014, Michelle Mack said: "Despite what appears to be near-universal expression of commitment to religious human rights, ...
Sikhs, Hindus, Christians, and other non-Muslim minorities reported continued harassment from Muslims.
For example, local police rarely made arrests in cases of vandalism against religious buildings or violence and harassment against religious officials or believers.
Whalen, Harrison and Schnell have suggested Rutherford invited and cultivated opposition for publicity purposes in a bid to attract dispossessed members of society, and to convince members that persecution from the outside world was evidence of the truth of their struggle to serve God.
The Penal Code, which entered into force in 2004, states that violations of religious freedom are crimes subject to a penalty of between 3 months' and 3 years' imprisonment.
The edict was signed by King Louis XVI on 7 November 1787, and registered in the Parlement of Paris during the Ancien Régime on 29 January 1788.
The advocacy group Freedom House produced a report entitled "Religious Freedom in the World" in 2000 which ranked countries according to their religious freedom.
However, respect for religious freedom has eroded during recent years, creating some areas of concern.
On July 24, 2013, and August 3, 2013, the doorway of the church was filled with tons of dirt, rocks, and rubble.
Ten days after their arrest, the Ortegas were released from prison on bail; their case remained under investigation at the end of the period covered by this report.
Judgement The two judge bench of the court delivered its interim judgement on September 15, 2025, granting limited stay to key provisions and declining to stay the whole Act.
Even so, the Maldivian Police submitted his case to their public prosecutors office as of 29 August 2010.
Agriprocessors plants stopped operating in October 2008, and the firm filed for bankruptcy on 5 November of the same year.
The term did not, however, become popular till the time of Pope Pius X, whose papacy lasted from 1903 to 1914.
Historically it has been an area of both interaction and conflict between Belarusian Orthodoxy and Roman Catholicism, although relations between the two groups improved during the period covered by this report.
As of 2021, in Uttar Pradesh, 108 police reports, involving 350 people with 189 arrests and 72 convictions, were recorded for violations of anti-conversion laws.
Integralism has, thus, also been used to describe non-Catholic religious movements, such as Protestant fundamentalism or Islamism.
secular organizations: Atheist Alliance International, the Institute for Humanist Studies, the Secular Student Alliance, and the Secular Web.
In an article of his authorship published in the Jornal do Brasil newspaper, law professor Ives Gandra Martins cited the words "under God's protection", from the Brazilian Constitution's introduction, as possible justification for the argument that the movement's aim is unconstitutional.
Women of the Wall has fought a legal battle asserting a right to conduct organized prayer at the Kotel and challenging government and private intervention in its efforts.
The government affords Islam in special status and declared it as a national heritage and a moral guideline.
Judges Foighel and Loizou, jointly, and Judge Valticos filed two dissenting opinions, regarding Article 9 as not violated.
Religious practices have been recognized and adopted by law, including Christmas as a federal holiday since 1870 (at first applicable only to federal employees in the District of Columbia, extended in 1885 to all federal employees) and In God We Trust as the national motto since 1956.
Judgment Mummery LJ in the Court of Appeal held that interference with this right was justified in the pursuit of a legitimate aim (to run an effective business).
In 1869, the Liberal parliamentary majority confiscated the lands forming the endowment of the Diocese of Linz and withheld them until its downfall in 1883.
Candidates associated with religion-based political societies won 32 of the 40 seats in the Council of Representatives.
Background In 1975, a Swedish newspaper published certain statements made in the course of lecture by a professor of theology, including that "Scientology in the most untruthful movement there is.
Other groups include Buddhists, Hindus, Sikhs, Baháʼís, animists, and those who did not express a religious preference.
Even if she had been employed by the state and dismissed in similar circumstances, there would not have even been an interference with her Art 9(1) rights.
There they hashed out the framework for a commission that could advise the relevant parties on the many interfaith issues that arise in pluralistic Malaysia such as conversion from Islam to another faith, which is deemed as apostasy in Malaysia.
Rather, it supports subordinating the state to the moral principles of Catholicism, rejects separating morality from the state, and favours Catholicism as the proclaimed religion of the state.
In 2007, the US government received no reports of religious prisoners or detainees in the country or reports of forced religious conversion.
Certain restrictions on the access of Orthodox Christians to the highest offices in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania were lifted by King Sigismund II of Poland in 1563 and 1568.
For example, they could not accept converts, but only serve foreigners and Norwegians who had converted abroad.
Freedom of religion is the freedom to practice religion, change one's religion, mix religions, or to be irreligious.
Interior Minister Efkan Ala made a live statement claiming that 1,000 officers had been moved to new positions and 5,000 officers had been moved in a routine procedure.
At age seven, Smith was sent to a nearby Catholic boarding school at the insistence of local Indian agents.
Olaf III's reign would also focus on the expansion of the organizational structure of the Catholic Church in Norway.
Teaching of religion is permitted in schools, but students have the right to choose the type of religious instruction, if any.
The Transitional Charter states that public education shall be secular; religious instruction can be given in public schools and many Muslim and Christian groups run their own schools.
Legislation against the violation of religious freedom The constitution permits courts to prevent propagation of religious hatred or discrimination and prohibits organizations instigating religious hatred and intolerance.
Refusal to sign was interpreted as support for "American imperialists" and opposition to the "peaceful policy" of the Soviet Union.
Article 32 specified punishment for "those who have prevented, delayed or interrupted the exercises of worship".
See also Camisas Doradas The Lawless Roads General Gun politics in Mexico References == External links ==
IHP+ mobilizes national governments, development agencies, civil society, and others to support a single, country-led national health strategy in a well-coordinated way.
I hope people who don't like the little film will still think about the big issue and try to do something about it." Withdrawal of sponsors Several sponsors withdrew their support of 10:10 as a result of the No Pressure film.
This, the report explained, could be solved by optimizing usage of these sources by switching from coal to gas, by preventing methane leakages, and by stopping routine flaring.
He was previously involved in deals to sell Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine at a premium during the COVID 19 pandemic.
Stark resigned after three months to take up a role in government and was replaced by COO Michael Rea.
In July 2021, permits were being handed out for free rather than auctioned, and the market price per tonne of CO2e was around RMB 50, roughly half of the EU ETS and the UK ETS but better compared to the US, which has no formal cap-and-trade program.
Internal prices also typically rise with national GDP, company size (number of employees), and quality of corporate governance (number of independent board members and percentage of female board members).
History South Pole was founded in 2006 by graduates of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) including Patrick Bürgi, Thomas Camerata, Renat Heuberger, Ingo Puhl, and Christoph Sutter, and joined by Christoph Grobbel, Marco Hirsbrunner, and Christian Dannecker as equal partners.
“Embodied carbon refers to the carbon footprint associated with building materials, from cradle to grave," and can be quantified as a part of environmental impact using life-cycle assessment (LCA).
Addressing the growing demand for reliable and detailed information on emissions trading worldwide, ICAP developed an interactive ICAP ETS Map, which offers an up-to-date overview of existing ETSs.
Credit-level integrity: development of threshold standards intended to raise credit quality, including through the proposed Core Carbon Principles.
Climate Change and Emissions Management Fund A third option would be for companies to pay $15 for every tonne over their reduction target.
This enabled the company to develop over 700 CDM projects located in 45 countries and using 50 technologies.
Secretary of State, personally called officials in different countries to threaten financial penalties and other penalties.
The Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market (ICVCM) is an independent governance body that publishes the Core Carbon Principles (CCPs) and related guidance intended to define high-level integrity criteria for carbon credits used in the voluntary carbon market.
taxiformis in vertical, near-shore land-based tanks, using seawater to provide the proper temperature and nutrients.
Ontario Following the election of a Progressive Conservative Party government under Doug Ford in the 2018 Ontario general election, Ontario cancelled its participation in the Western Climate Initiative cap-and-trade system.
In March 2019, Chancellor Merkel formed a "climate cabinet" to find a consensus on new emissions reduction measures to meet 2030 targets.
As of 2025 a law has been passed but allowances not yet decided, and it has not yet clear whether the country will join the Cooperative Mechanisms under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement.
Benefits The carbon market in India seeks the following benefits: Improves agricultural practices and social communities through emission reductions to improve their source of income through the voluntary credit market.
Pan, Y.; Birdsey, R.; Fang, J.; Hougton, R.; Kauppi, P.; Kurz, W.; Phillips, O.; Shvidenko, A.; Canadell, J.; Ciais, P.; Jackson, R.; Lewis, S.; McGuire, D.; Pacala, S.; Piao, S.; Rautiainen, A.; Sitch, S.; Hayes, D.
ART is governed by an independent advisory board, while daily operations are managed by the ART Secretariat, hosted by Winrock International.
Media coverage The launch of the PopOffsets project on 3 December 2009 received international media coverage from both print and broadcast media outlets, including in The Guardian, The Times, The Sunday Express, The Telegraph, Reuters, BBC and Channel 4.
For example, under Premier Blaine Higgs, the New Brunswick Attorney General submitted his intention to intervene in Saskatchewan's court challenge of the federal government's carbon pricing plan.
REPs are incentives for homeowners, farmers, businesses, etc., to become producers of renewable energy, or to increase their production of renewable energy.
Developing countries did take on obligations under the Protocol, but these were unquantified and allowed climate change to be addressed as part of wider national policies on sustainable development.
The Program of Activities (PoA) under the Clean Development Mechanism is regarded a precedor of a future NAMA mechanism and already operational.
Despite their contribution to the construction industry and the generation of jobs, artisanal brick producers largely operate informally and are generally excluded from social, environmental and economic public policies.
In it, Stern discusses the effect of global warming on the world economy, and states that climate change is the greatest and widest-ranging market failure ever seen, presenting a unique challenge for economics.
Presidential decree N° 7.390 of 2010 The decree specifies how Brazil quantifies greenhouse emissions, how it will achieve the reduction, and a legal requirement for estimating annual emissions.
History Ember was originally founded in 2008 as Sandbag, focussing on the European Union's Emission Trading Scheme, allowing its members to campaign to reduce the number of permits in circulation and to purchase permits and cancel them.
VAT fraud In 2009 Europol informed that 90% market volume of emissions trading in some countries could be the result of tax fraud, more specifically missing trader fraud, costing governments more than 5 billion euros.
A comprehensive study, published in Energy Policy in 2013, reported that Germany's nuclear power phase-out, to be complete by 2022, is contradictory to the goal of the climate portion of the program.
The Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 (asp 12) is an act of the Scottish Parliament concerning the setting of emissions reductions targets and certain other matters.
sanfordiana, is a species of red algae, with cosmopolitan distribution in tropical to warm temperate waters.
Jeff Huang is assistant chairman of Tianjin Climate Exchange and vice-president of Chicago Climate Exchange.
It has also supported results-based payments: a pilot programme for REDD+ results-based payments ran from 2017 to 2022, and in October 2024 the GCF Board adopted a policy establishing REDD+ results-based payments as a permanent funding window within the Fund.
The annual cost of compliance is estimated to be $177 million - or less than one-tenth of one per cent of Alberta's nominal GDP ($242 billion in 2006).
Among the regulations outlined in the plan were initiatives to increase natural disaster preparedness, create and improve existing hospitals, and modernize infrastructure to withstand better extreme weather.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WSJTKyDuI6I Explanatory Film - The Climate Action Plan: Successful climate action has to be a cooperative undertaking.
In the first scene, a bright and chirpy schoolteacher, played by Lyndsey Marshal, tells her class about the 10:10 campaign, and asks what they are doing to reduce their carbon footprint.
This included a joint FCPF/UN-REDD template for Readiness Preparation Proposals (R-PPs) and joint guidance on stakeholder engagement in REDD+ readiness.
An emissions reduction currency, by contrast, is purely an incentive for behaviour change by individuals or groups.
The third phase of CERT (previously known as Energy Efficiency Commitment 3) originally ran from 2008 to 2011 and increased the previous targets to 154 MtC.
Examples Venice The city of Venice serves as an example of how a modern city can function without cars.
It provides a platform for governments to share their practical experiences and the latest knowledge on ETS.
Simpson Grierson considered that the key findings of the review were that: the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report represents a consensus on scientific evidence, and should underpin New Zealand's policy.
There have been efforts in the past to organize subnational governments to address climate change most notably through the Cities for Climate Protection Program - an effort associated with the International Union of Local Authorities and the United Nations Environment Programme.
Voluntary Emission Reductions or Verified Emission Reductions (VERs) are a type of carbon offset exchanged in the voluntary or over-the-counter market for carbon credits.
In 2005, EcoSecurities Group Plc was listed in the London Stock Exchange, raising capital for an expansion drive that resulted in offices in 33 countries run by over 350 employees.
Such cuts will require "a significant contribution by the electrification of new cars and should have priority".
It described this as a shared data layer linking registry identifiers and transaction status so credits could be traced consistently as they move between accounts and intermediaries.
Incentivize the sustainable use of degraded land and ecosystems, and remove incentives that encourage forest destruction.
The programme now operates in the United Kingdom, Australia, Chile, United Arab Emirates as well as New Zealand.
In the 2015 Autumn Statement, the Chancellor, George Osborne, announced that an additional £225 million budget for automotive research and development would be facilitated by the APC.
Goods leaving the US for sale in a country without a carbon price would be reimbursed that fee at the border.
Examples of each category are as follows: Forest Management Rotation extensions: Allowing trees to grow for longer periods to increase carbon absorption.
Assigned amount units were issued up to the level of initial "assigned amount" of an Annex 1 Party to the Kyoto Protocol.
During Trump's second term in office, the office was re-established under the name "Office of Coal".
Such emissions should be reduced as far as possible by developing new processes and replacing old ones – or through the use of carbon capture and utilization (CCU) or carbon capture and storage (CCS).
Other names included Liberian peace activist and advocate for women's rights, Leymah Gbowee, and Wole Soyinka, the Nigerian playwright, novelist and poet.
The Advanced Propulsion Centre (APC) is a non-profit organisation that facilitates funding to UK-based research and development projects developing net-zero emission technologies.
The Open Coalition on Compliance Carbon Markets also known as Climate Coalition, was created during the United Nations Climate Conference 2025 COP30 in Belém, Brazil.
It believes that the crisis of climate change requires a national economic effort on the scale of the American mobilization of the home front during World War II, in order to transform the USA economy speedily.
The emissions from 2,500 hours of driving one standard diesel vehicle produces about 150 litres of ink.
Results As of November 2014, 28 schools had raised enough money for solar panels, and 27 schools had installed them through the scheme.
Members noted that the experiences in Panama provided valuable lessons for other REDD+ countries and highlighted the importance of strong stakeholder engagement processes.
In the second phase of the Energy Efficiency Commitment (2005–2008) scheme, energy saving targets were raised to 130 TWh suppliers, and here suppliers with at least 50,000 domestic customers (including affiliated licenses) were eligible for an obligation.
Emissions figures from the 2010–11 financial year suggest the electricity generation sector may be due to pay around A$3.9 billion.
By April 2014, Willauer's team had not yet made fuel to the standard required by military jets, but they were able in September 2013 to use the fuel to fly a radio-controlled model airplane powered by a common two-stroke internal combustion engine.
A 1995 report compared converting vehicle fleets for the use of carbon-neutral methanol with the further synthesis of gasoline.
The fall of the Soviet Union led to massive restructuring and deindustrialization of many of the former Soviet Bloc.
In the United States, most carbon dioxide (98 percent) is emitted as a result of the combustion of fossil fuels; consequently, carbon dioxide emissions and energy use are highly correlated.
The rationale behind a meta registry is to maintain transparency and prevent double counting and double issuance.
The first four companies to receive the Water Standard were Sainsbury's, Coca-Cola, Sunlight Services Group and Branston.
In March 2017, Trump signed an executive order to officially nullify Obama's Clean Power Plan in an effort, it said, of reviving the coal industry.
See also Certified Emission Reduction Emission Reduction Unit Removal Units Voluntary Emissions Reduction Flexible mechanisms List of Kyoto Protocol signatories == References ==
Observers of the accord are Indiana, Ohio, and South Dakota, as well as the Canadian Province of Ontario.
The term commonly encompasses two broad categories: large-scale carbon dioxide removal (CDR) and solar radiation modification (SRM).
Proponents of Renewable Energy Payments argue that this policy has proven to stimulate local economies, innovation and small business growth because in its truest form REP's put everyone, whether small business, individual, or farmers on an equal footing with large commercial titans of industry.
The purpose of GCC methodology is to make them user friendly, and simple where possible, without compromising with their environmental integrity.
History The Alliance was launched by Canada and the UK at the COP23 climate summit in November 2017.
The report consisted of minority reports from the New Zealand Labour Party, the Green Party, the Māori Party and the ACT Party.
Before its release, The Guardian described it as "attention-grabbing" and "pretty edgy." The film was withdrawn from public circulation by 10:10, on the same day it was released, due to negative publicity.
Main methods Alkaline Electrolyzers (AE): A mature and cost-effective technology used primarily for large-scale, steady hydrogen production.
See also CEB VER Verified Carbon Standard CDM Gold Standard Certified Emission Reduction == References ==
In 2013, the Fluid Interfaces research group, at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology demonstrated the process of converting carbon residue into ink for use in an inkjet cartridge.
Then-Governor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger, expressed at ICAP's founding ceremony: "This first-of-its-kind partnership will provide more incentives for clean-tech investment and economic growth while not letting polluters off the hook.
President Bill Clinton signed the agreement in November 1998, but the US Senate refused to ratify it, citing potential damage to the US economy required by compliance.
Verified Emission Reductions are usually created by projects which have been verified outside of the Kyoto Protocol.
Main findings Renewable energy can contribute to "social and economic development, energy access, secure energy supply, climate change mitigation, and the reduction of negative environmental and health impacts".
Hydrogen power In 2009, Japan fitted over 100,000 homes with hydrogen powered fuel cells, improving its hydrogen powered infrastructure.
The Carbon Trust also initiated work on new and emerging low carbon technologies using a range of programmes and measures including traditional research, development, and demonstration support to supporting early stage companies developing new technologies and practices.
However, if a country was not able to meet their obligation, their target would get added to their next commitment period.
Critical climate change experts decry these credits as a way for countries to buy their way out of taking action to address climate change.
At the 2009 Copenhagen climate conference, a Bangladeshi delegate told reporters that Bangladesh might let the World Bank manage the funds, if that was set as a condition by funders.
CO2balance adheres to a profit for purpose approach, whereby revenue from the sale of carbon credits is used to maintain projects over the long term and reinvested into new project development.
Samuele Landi, an Italian businessman convicted of fraudulent bankruptcy who lived as a fugitive until his death at sea in 2024, was listed as an advisor to Blue Carbon.
REDD (2005–2007) REDD was first discussed in 2005 under the UNFCCC at its 11th session of the Conference of the Parties after Papua New Guinea and Costa Rica, on behalf of the Coalition for Rainforest Nations, submitted the proposal on reducing emissions from deforestation in developing countries.
The association manages exclosures (land protected from grazing) with the intent of improving the ecosystem and sequestering carbon.
Features The carbon market in India includes multiple features: A system of trading to buy and sell credits permitting an industrial unit to emit a specific amount of greenhouse gas.
The aim is to create a "durable institutional architecture—aligning climate ambition with economic competitiveness." == References ==
Course 50 is encouraging innovation in technology towards more effective CO2 capturing polymers, as well as temperature reduction and improved efficiency of blast furnaces in the steel industrious.
As of June 2019, five provinces and two territories are under the federal pricing system for one or both aspects of pollution pricing.
Alberta-based credits A facility can purchase credits from large emitters that have reduced their emissions intensity beyond their 12 per cent target.
2015 Deep Decarbonization Pathways Project study The Deep Decarbonization Pathways Project (DDPP) aims to demonstrate how countries can transform their energy systems by 2050 in order to achieve a low-carbon economy.
Clients get to use a specific CEMARS certification logo and are certified against ISO 14064-1 for organisation or PAS 2050 for product or service carboNZero certification is for organisations, products, services or events to make a carbon neutrality claim.
The Clean Air Act (1990) or Clean Air Act amendments of 1990 authorized the use of market-based approaches such as emission trading to assist states in attaining and maintaining air quality for all criteria pollutants.
Other French cities with a LEZ in operation include Grenoble, Lyon and Strasbourg Germany In Germany, an LEZ is called an environmental zone (Umweltzone).
A comprehensive, upstream, auctioned cap-and-trade system is very similar to a comprehensive, upstream carbon tax.
Working in coordination with public bodies to incorporate the artisanal brick production sector within the national climate change mitigation agenda.
Google violations On 22 April 2008, Ecocho was informed by Google that they would be denied the use of Google's search technologies for multiple past violations of Google's policies.
It is normally mined underground before being transported to power stations, or export shipping terminals.
The revenue that would be collected would be 100% returned as a monthly or annual payment to every American household.
This strategy focuses on the availability and use of alternative modes of transportation to driving as well as reducing the emissions associated with driving.
The application is designed to meet the new requirements of the EU ETS resulting from the 2008/101/CE Directive.
This comprised nearly €76 billion for initiatives related to power grids, energy efficiency, and renewable energy throughout Europe and other parts of the world.
Sandbag was re-branded as Ember in 2020 with a focus on the global power sector, while a separate Brussels-based organisation was established to continue work on the ETS.
Market role ART has been closely associated with the LEAF Coalition, which uses TREES-certified credits in its purchase arrangements and became a major buyer of jurisdictional TREES credits.
The negative market response was concentrated among EU companies subject to the CBAM with low profit margins.
A Clean Air Task Force (CATF) study investigated public health benefits arising from the RGGI states' shift to cleaner power generation.
Funding The funds gathered from online donations were distributed between rights-based family planning schemes, contraceptive services and supplies, sex and relationship education and health programs.
Climate Defiance is a climate movement organization in the United States which uses direct action protests to demand stronger climate change mitigation policies.
In the Uniform Price scenario with a price of 50 dollars per ton of CO2, for 5 countries the revenue can represent more than 1% of the overall governmental revenue.
The bill aimed to make the use of non-fossil fuel sources mandatory for energy and encourage feedstocks like green ammonia, green hydrogen, ethanol and biomass.
Negotiations The IMO Net-Zero Framework (NZF) was drafted by Marine Environment Protection Committee Meeting 83 (MEPC83) and was initially scheduled for adoption by the IMO at an extraordinary meeting in October 2025.
The report also proposed shared data fields and protocols intended to be broadly accessible, framing common data infrastructure as a way to increase transparency and oversight as trading volumes grew.
Among those emitters to which it applied, emissions were significantly lower after introduction of the tax.
The refund is paid in biannual installments for residential customers and monthly for small businesses.
The Stern Report shows that the overall cost of strong early action is much less than the cost of inaction.
There is no legal requirement for organisations to act on or implement any of the recommendations made in the report.
In January 2018, Yasa, an electric motor manufacturer based in Oxford, England, opened a new factory to produce 100,000 motors per year, using APC funding.
The program reduced expenditures on medicine by about 1.5% ($800 million annually) and reduced the mortality rate by up to 0.5% (2,200 fewer premature deaths, mainly among individuals 75 and older).
The Initial IMO GHG Strategy lists criteria to assess impacts on States, and MEPC 74 approved a procedure for assessing impacts on States of candidate measures.
The scheme required entities which emit over 25,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent greenhouse gases per year, and which were not in the transport or agriculture sectors, to obtain emissions permits, called carbon units.
The mixed reactions from users can be seen in the blog comments, some taking further action by complaining to Google, and others agreeing with Google.
In 2010 the Government increased the target to 293 MtC, to be achieved over an extended period running until the end of 2012 (see The Electricity and Gas (Carbon Emissions Reduction) (Amendment) Order 2010: S.I.2010/1958).
On 14 September 2009, the National Government announced that it had reached an agreement with the Māori Party about revisions to the NZ ETS.
It is also supported by companies including Microsoft, Pepsico, First Solar, American Wind Energy Association, Exxon Mobil, BP, and General Motors.
On 9 February 2007 CAF declared: Premiers and Chief Ministers expressed their expectation that the Prime Minister would make a commitment to the introduction of a national emissions trading scheme following receipt of the Task Group report in May 2007.
All funds collected under the federal system are returned to the province or territory where they are collected.
In 2021, a 10% stake in the South Pole was bought by Lightrock, a leading global impact investor backed by LGT and the Princely House of Liechtenstein.
It has been suggested that mandatory carbon allowances could be included in future so that it would become a carbon market similar to the Chinese and EU ETS.
Department of Energy (DOE) conducted projects called the Clean Coal Technology & Clean Coal Power Initiative (CCPI).
Context For many years, there has been severe land degradation and desertification in Tigray and the area became also impoverished; however, a lot of efforts are done to rehabilitate these semi-arid mountain landscapes.
They can also purchase credits from facilities whose emissions are below the 100,000-tonne threshold but are voluntarily reducing their emissions.
Campaigners have expressed concern about the 10–15% management fees to be charged by World Bank consultants and the lack of democratic access to adaptation funding.
Examples of program assessments ICVCM's assessment status information lists major programs including Gold Standard and Verra's Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) as CCP-Eligible programs.
In 2025 experts said that the lack of clarity on allowances (caps) was hindering future decarbonization.
It started as a memorandum of understanding, which was signed by twelve founding jurisdictions on May 19, 2015 in Sacramento, California.
The experience gained in the pilot areas will serve as a basis to expand EELA’s intervention at a national level.
The plan also promotes strategies to reduce emissions from transportation, which account for over 20 percent of local greenhouse gas sources.
Building upon the achievements of the Eleventh Five-Year Plan, it became increasingly difficult to encourage smaller enterprises—many of which already operated efficiently—to adopt stricter targets.
Withdrawal Although originally planned to be shown in cinema and television advertisements, 10:10 removed the film from their website and YouTube later on 1 October 2010.
In assessing Australia’s further contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, these advantages must be preserved.
Climate Defiance disrupted the 2023 White House Correspondents Dinner, an event for Exxon CEO Darren Woods, and the speaking events of several powerful Democratic officials, including Tommy Beaudreau, Pete Buttigieg, Jennifer Granholm, Amy Klobuchar, Joe Manchin, Jerome Powell, and Ali Zaidi.
PAS 2060 is a specification detailing how to demonstrate carbon neutrality produced and published by the British Standards Institution.
On February 15, 2009, the Bangladeshi government refused to accept a £60 million climate funding offer from the United Kingdom at if it was channeled through the World Bank, at first, then the government has accepted the terms and the money.
It also emphasizes financial assistance from developed countries to developing countries to reduce emissions.
This led to a subsequent criticism of Energiewende's strategy, and how this impacted different countries in Europe.
Oram concluded that the review had 'failed to make any serious contribution towards improving the working of the ETS'.
(2a) Next, the company projects how much methane it expects to emit into the air, with the new technology.
The report also stated that the "net financial impact of the program on households in different income brackets would depend in large part on how many allowances were sold (versus given away), how the free allowances were allocated, and how any proceeds from selling allowances were used.
Subsequent inspections must be conducted by an accredited energy assessor within five years of the previous inspection.
Command-and-control regulation Command and control is a system of regulation that prescribes emission limits and compliance methods for each facility or source.
Recyclebank is also funded by municipal governments that purchase and operate the required equipment, allowing RecycleBank to operate as a private for profit company.
The term recognizes that different countries may take different nationally appropriate action on the basis of equity and in accordance with common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities.
Current priorities include financing for climate action and responding to global crises like the COVID-19 pandemic.
Before the Under2 MOU was conceived many subnational governments had taken the initiative to create a climate action plan.
EBEX21 was established to assist landowners to retire or set aside marginally productive land and allow it to regenerate to create new areas of native forest.
GCC program framework GCC Program has developed the governance structure, systems, carbon registry and the documentation framework to facilitate the building of low-carbon economies.
Canada In 2014 SaskPower a provincial-owned electric utility finished renovations on Boundary Dam's boiler number 3 making it the world's first post-combustion carbon capture storage facility.
In total, Blue Carbon has secured forested area equivalent to the land area of the entire United Kingdom.
There is also concern regarding the biased ranking that occurs if some included options have negative costs.
The final accepted compromise became stronger in CO2 emission reduction than the proposal from the European Commission.
According to the treaty, in 2012, Annex I Parties who have ratified the treaty must have fulfilled their obligations of greenhouse gas emissions limitations established for the Kyoto Protocol's first commitment period (2008–2012).
In the United States RGGI (Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative) has set a precedent in that it will initially allow only up to 3.3% compliance occur by means of offset projects (carbon projects).
Corporate social responsibility CO2balance offers a corporate social responsibility service to corporate clients, to complement the environmental and social benefits of their climate protection projects.
The funding for the refund comes from the utility providers who pay a carbon tax for polluting the air, and the refund is the dividend portion of the carbon fee and dividend program created by the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006.
On the 27th October 2023, South Pole cut all ties with the project, confirming that the project had failed to meet standards.
Sharma and his team spent close to three years researching how to purify and repurpose carbon soot from auto and factory emissions, a major contributor to air pollution and global carbon footprint.
History The British Standards Institution announced the development of the PAS 2060 Standard for Carbon Neutrality in October 2009 with the objective of increasing transparency of carbon neutrality claims by providing a common definition and recognized method of achieving carbon neutral status.
These initiatives taken together may create a series of partly linked markets, rather than a single carbon market.
Economic development projects for community and gender and conservation of biodiversity through voluntary credit markets using premium pricing.
In June 2020 6 global finance organisations joined including Desjardins Group, the first major North American financial institution to join.
The system has been the subject of a UK government funded feasibility study in 2008, an All Party Parliamentary Group report in 2011, and a European Commission debate in 2018.
Exporters have to pay the EU Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism from 1 January 2026 until the Turkish ETS starts.
Simon Upton, a former National Party MP and Minister for the Environment, was appointed as a special envoy to liaise with other countries on the issue.
In 2010, World Bank commented that introducing border tariffs could lead to a proliferation of trade measures where the competitive playing field is viewed as being uneven.
References Japan Denies Buying ‘Hot Air’ to Meet Kyoto Target Russia and carbon trading, New York Times, 28 Dec 2005
The Council started discussions including representatives of all 27 member states on the legislative proposals in working parties on an expert level.
The peak of this curve is known as peak oil, and by changing the shape of the curve, the timing of the peak in oil production is affected.
When the Kyoto Protocol was negotiated, there were several mechanisms that allowed for trading of emissions credits.
The Net-Zero framework is in principle, designed to deliver on the 2023 GHG strategy, not only in terms of climate ambition but also addressing concerns relating to the just and equitable energy transition.
Although historically grouped together, these approaches differ substantially in mechanisms, timelines, and risk profiles, and are now typically discussed separately.
Progress As of 2025, the US has closed, or planned closure of, 65% of coal plants, Europe has planned the retirement of 50% of its coal fleet, and Canada has reduced its coal capacity by 83%.
10% in 2010 Possible's original campaign encouraged and supported individuals and organisations to cut their carbon emissions by 10% in 2010, and gave the group its name, 10:10 Climate Action.
Founded in 2009, the organisation began by campaigning for a 10% reduction in carbon emissions in 2010, and has since broadened its approach to include a range of projects focused on carbon reduction and renewable energy.
In a broad stroke, Renewable Energy Payments, sometimes known as a Feed-in Tariff place obligations on utility companies to buy electricity from renewable energy sources, often small, local companies, for a fixed period of time.
They found that the effects of RGGI's first three years are generating in $1.6 billion in net economic benefit and 16,000 job-years, and RGGI's second three years are generating $1.3 billion in net economic benefit and 14,700 job-years.
Projects The formal crediting period for JI was aligned with the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, and did not start until January 2008 (Carbon Trust, 2009, p.
After the conference, Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina stated that establishing a Multi Donor Trust Fund is part of her government's response to climate change.
202, authorizing the city council to levy and collect an excise tax from residential, commercial and industrial electricity customers for the purpose of funding a climate action plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
It was expanded again on 29 August 2023 to coincide with the London low emission zone, covering almost all of Greater London.
Design The Chicago Climate Action Plan consists of five strategies: Energy Efficient Buildings; Clean & Renewable Energy Sources; Improved Transportation Options; Reduced Waste & Industrial Pollution; and Adaptation.
The carbon footprint measurements should include 100% of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, plus all Scope 3 emissions that contribute more than 1% of the total footprint.
The Improved Transportation Options strategy accounts for 23 percent of Chicago's total greenhouse gas reductions.
Article 6.1 states that "The acquisition of emission reduction units shall be supplemental to domestic actions for the purposes of meeting commitments under Article 3".
Australia (under Prime Minister John Howard) and the US subsequently did not ratify the Protocol, although Australia has since ratified the treaty.
Response to climate change World Bank President Jim Yong Kim said in 2012: A 4-degree warmer world can, and must be, avoided—we need to hold warming below 2 degrees ...
Human Rights Watch has reported alleged rights violations linked to specific forest-carbon projects, including claims relating to land and resource access and consultation processes.
Article 17 also required that any such emissions trading must be supplemental to domestic action for the purpose of meeting quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments.
There are costs that emitters do face, e.g., the costs of the fuel being used, but there are other costs that are not necessarily included in the price of a good or service.
The Declaration was named for the Lofoten archipelago where public concern has successfully prevented offshore development of petroleum reserves.
Funding required for verification was supplied by the local government rather than the enterprise, in order to reduce the compliance burden.
Among volunteers and donors it promotes greater charitable giving and eagerness to be involved in community projects.
History Since at least 2008, public figures like environmental analyst Lester Brown, former vice president Al Gore, author and energy expert Joseph J.
The underlying premise being that with fixed payments the once volatile renewable energy projects now become lendable and attractive for financing, thus stimulating growth and innovation.
Russia accounts for about two-thirds of these projected savings, with the remainder divided up roughly equally between Ukraine and the EU's New Member States.
Cool Earth 50 is planned to be a framework that would continue towards the goals set forth in the Kyoto Protocols.
The Carbon Trust was originally funded by around £50m of UK tax revenue generated from the Climate Change Levy (CCL), a tax on business energy use.
Málaga and Seville were the next cities to establish low emission zones, with traffic only allowed for residents, in 2009.
Proposals Proposals include: Tradable Energy Quotas (TEQs) – devised by environmental writer David Fleming, who first published the idea in 1996 under its former name Domestic Tradable Quotas (DTQs).
This amounted to about 45 percent of the yearly greenhouse gas emissions during that period in China.
An ambitious long-term target to reduce emissions, e.g., an 80% cut in UK emissions by 2050, requires significant domestic progress by 2020 and 2030 to reduce emissions.
Compliance measures The Certification Committee of the Ministry of Environment holds supervisory authority to review the annual emissions reports and the emissions was verified by a third-party.
In August 2021 the ART Board approved TREES 2.0, which expanded the standard beyond avoided deforestation and forest degradation to include optional HFLD and removals approaches and wider stakeholder participation pathways.
The Lofoten Declaration, drafted in August 2017, is an international manifesto calling for the end of hydrocarbon exploration and further expansion of fossil fuel reserves for climate change mitigation.
Announcing the launch, Climate Action Network-Canada Executive Director Catherine Abreu said: "Canada and the UK are right to kick-start the Alliance, as science tells us that OECD countries need to phase out coal by 2030 at the latest".
The current CEO is Josiane Sadaka, a British-educated brand manager for other companies owned by Sheikh Ahmed as well.
The only nuclear reactor in Australia is currently operated by ANSTO in the Sydney suburb of Lucas Heights.
A similar reduction would require a $13 (£8) investment in tree planting, $24 (£15) in wind power, $41 (£31) in solar energy and $92 (£56) in hybrid vehicle technology.
Through these schemes, industries and individuals voluntarily compensate for their emissions or provide an additional contribution to mitigating climate change.
The Powering Past Coal Alliance (PPCA) is a group of 188 countries, cities, regions and organisations aiming to accelerate the coal phase-out of coal-fired power stations, except the very few which have carbon capture and storage.
The COP/MOP is the body that represents the signers/ratifiers of the protocol and they have not been able to agree on a specific definition of the limit on use of flexible mechanisms.
This is via operation of a voluntary carbon marketplace to provide recognition of, and facilitate carbon finance for, GCC projects.
During the US Presidential campaign for 2008, both candidates John McCain and Barack Obama expressed interest in the development of CCS technologies as part of an overall comprehensive energy plan.
These are sold to organizations that have no regulatory obligation to offset their carbon emissions, but wish to do so on a voluntary basis, often as part of a carbon neutrality or corporate social responsibility programs.
This was followed in 2022 by the acquisition of Italy-based Carbonsink, with offices in Milan, Florence, and Maputo.
Carbon profiling is a mathematical process that calculates how much carbon dioxide is put into the atmosphere per m2 of space in a building over one year.
The refund represents only a portion of the carbon tax collected, with the rest of the funds collected going towards programs to fight climate change.
Research Ember currently produces research on global electricity trends and coal mine methane emissions, including research on the EU, India, Indonesia, Australia and Türkiye.
Supporters, including some researchers and market groups, have argued that historical baselines alone can under-reward jurisdictions maintaining large intact forests under rising pressure and have defended HFLD crediting as a way to direct finance before deforestation accelerates.
Emissions reduction currencies are not exchangeable within national cap and trade systems and as such do not confer any right to pollute.
An assigned amount unit was a tradable "Kyoto unit" or "carbon credit" representing an allowance to emit greenhouse gases comprising "one metric tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent, calculated using global warming potentials".
Governance ICAP functions as an open forum of governments and public authorities working on cap and trade systems.
(holding a 53% stake), Tianjin Property Rights Exchange (北方产权交易市场) (holding a 22% stake), and Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX) (holding a 25% stake), was unveiled in the Tianjin Binhai New Area.
The letter highlighted a report from the United Nations Environment Programme, stating that "120% more coal, oil, and gas will be produced by 2030 than is consistent with limiting warming to 1.5°C." The letter concluded that the expansion of the fossil fuel industry "is unconscionable ...
The first Meeting of Parties of the Kyoto Protocol (CMP) was held in 2005 in conjunction with COP 11.
After the closing down of streets and squares to personal car traffic, a pedestrian and bicycle network gradually emerges and joins several parts of the city.
Cancellation and reinstatement of the Climate Action Plan On the first day of the presidency of Donald Trump, the White House website announced that Obama's Climate Action Plan would be eliminated, stating it is "harmful and unnecessary".
The city council has the authority to increase the tax after the first year up to a maximum permitted tax rate of $0.0049/kWh for residential customers; $0.0009/kWh for commercial customers; and $0.0003/kWh for industrial customers.
While this method has existed for centuries, it is now sometimes referred to as farmer-managed natural regeneration or assisted natural regeneration.
The "European Green Hydrogen Acceleration Center" is tasked with developing a €100 billion a year green hydrogen economy by 2025.
Simon Sturgis and Gareth Roberts of Sturgis Associates in the United Kingdom originally developed ‘Carbon Profiling’ in December 2007.
In addition, landless youngsters derive much less income from sales of livestock or agricultural produce, in comparison to farmers with land.
2454) that would have established a variant of an emissions trading plan similar to the European Union Emission Trading Scheme.
The Forests Now Declaration was a 2007 declaration that advocates using carbon credits to protect tropical forests.
For every 1,000 searches, Ecocho claimed that 1 ton of greenhouse gases are offset through the planting of trees.
The Under2 Coalition is a coalition of subnational governments that aims to achieve greenhouse gases emissions mitigation.
Such recycling is expected to not only cost less than the excess economic impacts of climate change if it were not done, but also to pay for itself as global fuel demand growth and peak oil shortages increase the price of petroleum and fungible natural gas.
The Emissions Trading Scheme Review Committee was a special committee of the New Zealand Parliament which conducted a review of the Fifth Labour Government's Emissions Trading Scheme between December 2008 and late August 2009.
Areas of operation EELA began its first phase working with 970 artisanal brick producers in seven areas located in San Juan (Argentina), Cochabamba (Bolivia), Serido (Brazil), Nemocon (Colombia), Cuenca (Ecuador), Leon (Mexico) and Cusco (Peru).
It also provides 16 open data tools which track regional and global electricity transitions and coal mine methane emissions standards.
To date, Brazil has 347 clean development mechanism (CDM) projects, which account for 7.3% of the total projects worldwide.
In 2006, Tianjin Binhai New Area was designed by the State Council of the PRC as the national experimental zone for comprehensive reforms related to financial innovation, land and administrative management.
Senator Tom Harkin spoke on behalf of candidate Hillary Clinton, and climate advocates Jane Kleeb, founder of Bold Nebraska, and Iowa politician and radio host Ed Fallon spoke on behalf of candidate Bernie Sanders.
Through cap and trade, it is believed that both competitiveness and possibly carbon leakage will be reduced.
Opposition critics said the move was politically motivated, as the Liberal government has more Members of Parliament in the Atlantic provinces.
The Competitive Enterprise Institute argued that the bill was essentially the "largest tax hike in world history".
History The APC was founded in 2013 as a joint venture between the automotive industry and UK government to "research, develop and commercialise technologies for vehicles of the future".
Carbon offset The sequestered carbon is certified using the Plan Vivo voluntary carbon standard, after which carbon credits are sold, among others to Davines, an Italian producer of beauty products.
The UK established its own learning-by-doing voluntary scheme, the UK ETS, which ran from 2002 through 2006.
In March 2013, the Panama UN-REDD National Programme was suspended pending the results of an independent investigation and evaluation.
The communities are invited to design and implement the project themselves; for this purpose, EthioTrees uses a participatory mapping approach during all phases of the project.
History Anirudh Sharma, the founder of Graviky Labs, first conceived the idea of AIR-INK during an experiment at MIT, while designing a printer that could print with carbon nanoparticles.
In September 2009, the National-led government announced that a push would be made for the formation of a Global Alliance to investigate methods of reducing greenhouse gas emissions due to agriculture.
In addition to focusing on waste, this strategy has actions to reduce the emissions from refrigerants and use green infrastructure to capture stormwater.
Allocation and generation of fund Charge:March 2010 rates for electricity customers: Total Fund: $860,265 in the first year and up to $1,342,000/year thereafter through March 31, 2013Purpose: Renewable energy, energy efficiency, transportation.
Emissions rationing schemes Otherwise known as personal carbon trading, an emissions reduction currency system based on rationing presumes a standard ration of emissions allowable for an average citizen that incrementally decreases over time.
Amendments The act was amended by the Climate Change (Emissions Reduction Targets) (Scotland) Act 2019 (asp 15) to remove the target of a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of 75% for 2030, compared to 1990 levels.
Project-based voluntary carbon market initiatives Alongside UNFCCC-linked REDD+ finance, many forest-carbon projects described as "REDD+" have been developed for the voluntary carbon market.
Legislation supporting RGGI In response to and in tandem with opposing legislation, two companion bills were introduced in the 2021–2022 Legislative Session, detailing the appropriation of RGGI auction proceeds to areas of need.
Shenzhen was the first pilot to launch, on June 18, 2013, and was soon followed by the other designated pilots, which all completed their first compliance period by June 2015.
The tax was to be imposed on energy producers starting October 1, 2007, with revenue collected used for energy-efficiency programs including public transit.
Provide assistance for developing nations to build capacity to fully participate in the carbon markets, and to evaluate the ecosystem services their forests provide.
The calculator divided the total amount of the chosen country's CO2 emissions by the number of its citizens.
On The Move: SDC Annual Review 2005 – proposal by the UK Sustainable Development Commission for the UK Government to undertake a full-scale pilot and risk assessment of introducing personal carbon trading for individuals and small businesses.
A JI project might involve, for example, replacing a coal-fired power plant with a more efficient combined heat and power plant.
In June 2007, the company raised an additional €150 million to expand into new markets, with Credit Suisse becoming a major investor.
In 2004, a consortium of the livestock industry agreed to pay for a portion of this research (just not via taxation), and the government reserved the right to reconsider the tax if they or the industry withdrew from the agreement.
In 2016, AIR-INK products were given to graphic artists in Hong Kong, which is known for its high air pollution, who were requested to paint murals.
CDR involves techniques to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and is generally considered a form of climate change mitigation.
The decals include the URL of a page on the Ontario government's website that explains its position on the tax, but they do not mention the rebate program.
PATT works to raise awareness of global environmental issues, campaign for better environmental practices and take action against deforestation and climate change by planting trees.
ICVCM publishes registry tagging guidance and an assurance manual describing oversight arrangements for CCP-Eligible programs, and it publishes assessment status information as part of its process transparency.
Launched in 2009, PopOffsets was the first and only carbon offsetting scheme worldwide investing its funds in rights-based family planning schemes, health programs, relationship and sex education.
No further action was taken, as leadership in several of the states switched positions on climate policy.
The Lofoten Declaration also helped mobilize efforts for a global treaty on a managed decline of fossil fuel production, such as the Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty Initiative.
Financial impact Whether carbon capture and storage technology is adopted worldwide will "...depend less on science than on economics.
In April 2016, The Climate Mobilization organized a "die-in" outside the United Nations building in New York City during the signing of the COP 21 Paris Agreement, meant to protest what the group called the agreement's inadequacy in relation to the scale of the threat of climate change.
The articles referred to above also contain policy measures proposed by governments and commentators to address some of these criticisms.
Copenhagen Climate Conference (December 2009) The Copenhagen Climate Conference did not produce the global agreement envisaged in the Bali Road Map.
Many countries have set dates to stop selling petrol and diesel cars and trucks, but a timetable to stop burning fossil gas has not yet been agreed.
Include tropical forest and land use carbon credits in the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme, while maintaining strong incentives to reduce industrial emissions.
The facility was designed as a partnership to help developing countries prepare for a future system of incentives to reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, combining readiness support with a results-based finance window.
The regulations apply to about 100 large facilities which emit more than 100,000 tonnes of greenhouse gases a year.
Climate Action Plan 2050 The official Climate Action Plan 2050 is available in German and runs to 91 pages.
Rajendra Pachauri, chairman of the IPCC, said the necessary investment in renewables would cost only about 1% of global GDP annually.
Readiness activities may be supported through a delivery-partner model, in which partner institutions assist countries in implementing readiness work under the facility’s operational and reporting arrangements.
Signatories to the memorandum are asked to submit a plan to meet the target reduction of green house gas emissions by 2 metric tons per capita by 2050.
The plan would have supported the conservation of land and water resources and developed actionable climate science, and encouraged other countries to take action to address climate change, including reducing deforestation and lowering subsidies that increase the use of fossil fuels.
A cap is set by the government which defines the maximum level of total emissions permitted during a certain time period.
He further underscored the complexities and nuances of REDD+ and offered COONAPIP's contribution to national REDD+ efforts.
Additionally, Blue Carbon has done deals covering 10% of Liberia, 10% of Zambia, 8% of Tanzania (which also signed a deal handing 5.9 million acres to a similar company GreenCop Development), the Bahamas, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Saint Lucia, Dominica, Comoros, Pakistan and Kenya.
A price of $2/kg is considered by many to be a potential tipping point that would make green hydrogen competitive against grey hydrogen.
A large goal of Cool Earth is to promote economic prosperity through green technology and to encourage political stability domestically and internationally.
Carbon capture from ambient air is more costly, at between $94 and $232 per ton and is considered impractical for fuel synthesis or carbon sequestration.
These include excess profits generated by CDM projects designed to reduce emissions of industrial gases, adverse effects of projects on local communities, and the failure of the CDM to promote development in the poorest regions of the world.
After limiting the access of cars to the city center in Madrid, nitrogen oxide levels fell by 38% and carbon dioxide fell by 14.2% in the city center.
Cap-and-trade schemes are programs under which member companies commit to lowering their greenhouse gas emissions by a certain amount in a certain period of time and trade carbon credits generated by this.
The inspections also look for any faults in the system and check that the system is properly maintained.
The Turkish Emissions Trading System is the carbon emission trading system for greenhouse gas emissions by Turkey, which is supposed to start in Q3 2026, with a pilot phase including industries such as cement.
Ember, formerly Sandbag, is an independent global energy think tank that uses data and policy to accelerate the clean energy transition.
Romm, New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman, writer Naomi Klein, and climate activist Bill McKibben have called for governmental climate action on the scale of the World War II mobilization to rapidly reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
For example, a 2008 reforestation project in Phetchaburi, Thailand, brought together schoolchildren, monks, governmental officers, and local villagers with forestation staff in planting over 2500 trees.
However, she also indicated that she would not introduce carbon pricing until there was a sufficient consensus on the issue, that any carbon price legislated would not come into effect until after the 2013 election, and she specifically ruled out the introduction of a "carbon tax".
In a 2015 Maclean's article, economist Trevor Tombe wrote that "[p]ricing carbon is one of the most sensible policy prescriptions to address greenhouse gas emissions".
White House staff members who were directly tasked with the implementation of the plan included Heather Zichal and Michelle Patron.
The actual meaning of the principle has been heavily argued since the signing of Kyoto Protocol in 1997.
Ultimately it is hoped that degraded land in these communities will be reforested and climate change lessened through the project, while at the same time village economies are enhanced.
Among the biofuels the use of bioethanol and biodiesel is already established to some extent in some countries.
Climate Defiance is supported by Margaret Klein Salamon's Climate Emergency Fund, which provides about half of Climate Defiance's budget.
The Returning Farmland to Forest program paid farmers to plant trees on less productive farmland and provided them with a yearly subsidy for lost income.
In October 2020, the South Korean government announced its plan to introduce the Clean Hydrogen Energy Portfolio Standards (CHPS) which emphasizes the use of clean hydrogen.
History The carboNZero programme was created as part of a project called EBEX21 or Emissions Biodiversity Exchange in the 21st century.
They range from the one-day road race, criterium, and time trial to multi-stage events like the Tour de France and its sister events which make up cycling's Grand Tours.
Parliamentary passage The bill was passed unanimously by the Scottish Parliament on 24 June 2009 and received royal assent on 4 August.
Introduction Faced with serious pollution challenges, Brazil established public policy that would create incentives for the foreign and national private market to invest financial, technological, and human resources in the country.
For Phase II, the cap is expected to result in an emissions reduction in 2010 of about 2.4% compared to expected emissions without the cap (business-as-usual emissions).
The plan aims to establish a global emissions cap starting at a level close to current emissions and then gradually reducing it until reaching net zero by 2050.
The former is based on the social cost of carbon (SCC), which attempts to calculate the numeric cost of the externalities of carbon pollution.
The London Accord is a collaboration between investment banks, research houses, academics and NGOs to produce free research on climate change for financial investors.
Details of the agreement The agreement is a protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) adopted at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, which did not set any legally binding limitations on emissions or enforcement mechanisms.
The aim is to sustain political momentum and improve cooperation between countries with compliance markets.
The Twelfth Plan also sought to moderate GDP growth, adding complexity to the challenge of reducing emissions.
The system is designed to facilitate completion and submission of verified emissions and benchmarking reports, viewing of approved emissions/benchmarking plans for existing operators and submission of emissions plans for new operators.
To improve the competitiveness of UK business through resource efficiency; and To support the development of a UK industry sector that capitalises on the innovation and commercial value of low carbon technologies nationally and internationally.
Solar Schools Solar Schools is a community crowdfunding programme that helps schools raise money for solar panels.
The London Accord is the first open-source, co-operative investment analysis into opportunities and challenges in the energy supply and climate change market - which needs to be $600bn a year invested from the private sector over the next 25 years.
In terms of climate change mitigation, a carbon tax is not a perfect substitute for an emissions tax.
China pledged to reduce emission intensity by up to 65% by 2030—an increase from its earlier commitment of up to 45%—while also aiming to reach peak emissions around the same period.
The LEZ implementation is permanent and only TransJakarta buses, bicycles, pedestrians, and vehicles with special marker are allowed to enter the streets of the old town.
While the Midwest has intensive manufacturing and agriculture sectors, making it the most coal-dependent region in North America, it also has significant renewable energy resources and is particularly vulnerable to the climate change caused by burning coal and other fossil fuels.
Beginning April 1, 2007, and expiring March 31, 2013, the initial tax rate was set at $0.0022/kWh for residential customers, $0.0004/kWh for commercial customers, and $0.0002/kWh for industrial customers.
In the same period, some market participants publicly supported the initiative's general direction; for example, Verra's chief executive said the organisation supported most of TSVCM's recommendations as part of broader voluntary-market integrity work.
In 2020, FutureFeed won a Food Planet Prize worth USD $1 million for the research behind its inception.
The Wall Street Journal accused the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) of significantly underestimating the bill's ultimate costs, pointing out supposed flaws in its calculations.
At the time of the original Kyoto targets, studies suggested that the flexibility mechanisms could reduce the overall (aggregate) cost of meeting the targets.
In the Carbon Profiling Model these emissions are measured as Embodied Carbon Efficiency (ECE), measured as kg of CO2/m2/year.
The Framework would apply to ships above 5,000 gross tonnage, which account for 85% of those emissions.
Leakage is the effect of emissions increasing in countries or sectors that have weaker regulation of emissions than the regulation in another country or sector.
The report suggested two solutions for energy policy: Increased investment, keeping in mind that the investment required by the transition is estimated to be between $300-600 billion USD annually.
It calls for fossil fuel divestment and phase-out of use with a just transition to a low-carbon economy.
The act amended the Title Conditions (Scotland) Act 2003, by inserting a new section creating an additional personal real burden, known as a "climate change burden", which conveyancers can use in their work.
In 2020, a number of previously shut down fossil gas plants (Irsching units 4 and 5) were restarted due to "heavy fluctuations of level of power generated from the wind and sun" and a new fossil gas power plant was announced by RWE near the former Biblis nuclear power plant shut down in 2017.
There should be a presumption in favour of timber and stone." Occupational carbon emissions Occupational carbon emissions relate to the amount of carbon dioxide emitted into the atmosphere from the direct use of energy to run the building e.g.
Leeds also intended to introduce a LEZ, however increased uptake of cleaner vehicles led to the scheme's cancellation in 2020.
In this way countries can lower the costs of complying with their Kyoto targets by investing in projects where reducing emissions may be cheaper and applying the resulting Emission Reduction Units (ERUs) towards their commitment goal.
Various economists, research organizations, and consultancies have produced marginal abatement cost curves.
Reception Media coverage described TSVCM as part of wider efforts to standardise a fragmented voluntary carbon market, and reporting highlighted disagreements among stakeholders over governance design and trading and eligibility rules.
Each abatement strategy was compared with the "least-cost solution" produced by a computer optimization program to identify the least-costly combination of source reductions in order to achieve a given abatement goal.
On 17 July 2014, the Abbott government passed repeal legislation through the Senate to abolish the carbon pricing scheme.
A complete list of measures and details can be found in the official plan (2006-2012): Quebec and Climate Change -- A Challenge for the Future.
It is a government agent under the charge of Tianjin SASAC and is the only appointed exchange authorized by Tianjin SASAC for state-owned assets and equities transaction.
Community based currency schemes A community based emissions reduction currency scheme is a C4 type local currency in which local currency issues are backed by the emissions reductions of the schemes members.
Current or past sponsors include Bank of America Merrill Lynch, BHP Billiton, Energy Systems Catapult, CO2 Sciences, the European Climate Foundation, the Grantham Foundation and the UN Foundation.
Proposals The proposals of this program include: A long-term strategy for global reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
Due to the higher cost of production, green hydrogen represents a smaller fraction of the hydrogen produced compared to its share of market value.
See also IPCC 4th Assessment Report (AR4) IPCC Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) IPCC Summary for Policymakers IRENA Renewable energy commercialization REN21 List of books about renewable energy References External links Report (in English) IPCC SRREN: Full Report (In German)
If the Commonwealth refuses to commit at this time, the States and Territories will introduce an emissions trading scheme by the end of 2010.
This strategy includes a focus on distributed generation as an efficient and lower-emission alternative to central power plants.
Already in 2026, Turkish steel will become cheaper than Chinese despite higher cost of production, because Turkey use electric arc furnaces.
It has been suggested that the mechanism will help reduce emissions not only by making companies reduce emissions but also by incentivising other countries (like the United States, which lacks federal carbon pricing) to create similar mechanisms.
They must have calculated their assigned amount, as referred to in Articles 3.7 and 3.8 and Annex B of the Protocol in terms of tonnes of CO2-equivalent emissions.
The detailed contents of their submissions vary greatly on each country, ranging from their intention to be associated with the Copenhagen Accord, target sectors, specific actions to be taken, to GHG emissions reduction targets.
See also Extinction Rebellion The Climate Mobilization Margaret Klein Salamon References External links Official website
Policies and safeguards The FCPF adopted a "Common Approach" to environmental and social safeguards for implementation involving multiple delivery partners, intended to harmonise safeguard requirements for readiness activities supported through the facility.
In such programs, a central authority, such as an air pollution control district or a government agency, sets limits or "caps" on certain pollutants.
As at July 2011, ETSWAP is configured for reporting of carbon emissions by the aviation sector and has been used by 600 aviation operators in the UK and 200 in the Republic of Ireland.
Although the intent with both methods is the same, to stimulate growth in the alternative and renewable energy space, REP's have proven to offer benefits to local jobs, businesses and economies while making the growth fundable and lendable by financial institutions.
The Midwestern Accord was the fourth tier of the MGA Energy Security and Climate Stewardship Summit Platform, signed on November 15, 2007.
Based on that exchange the Permanent Representative Committee continues discussions preparing the ground for the council meeting of ministers.
Any of these taxes can be combined with a rebate, where the money collected by the tax is returned to qualifying parties, taxing heavy emitters and subsidizing those that emit less carbon.
The tax was also applied at 0.9 cents per litre of diesel fuel; 0.96 cents per litre of light heating oil; 1 cent per litre of heavy heating oil; 1.3 cents per litre of coke used in making steel; 0.5 cents per litre of propane; and $8 per tonne of coal.
Grandfathering relies on historical emissions data, while benchmarking emphasises efficiency and innovation.
The German government also explained its public participation process at the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 21) on 9 December 2015.
In early 2023, Pacific civil society organisations came together in Nadi, Fiji to issue the Naiuli Declaration - the first endorsement of the Fossil Fuel Treaty by an entire region's civil society groups.
South Pole consecutively won awards, as part of Environmental Finance's Annual Voluntary Carbon Market Rankings, from 2018 to 2021.
In 2022, Pretis published an analysis of the carbon tax program in British Columbia showing that there was an especially large decline in emissions in the transportation sector.
The Declaration was created as carbon credits from land use, land-use change and forestry were omitted from the Clean Development Mechanism for the First Commitment Period of the Kyoto Protocol despite contributing 18–25% of all emissions.
It offers waste management services, including recycling and landfills, to private companies and the government.
Nuclear power The Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI) expressed concerns that the American Clean Energy and Security Act did not provide sufficient incentives for nuclear energy development, which they argued is essential for achieving significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
Carbon pricing and economic growth According to a 2020 study carbon prices have not harmed economic growth in wealthy industrialized democracies.
Initial reductions were planned as follows: The RGGI caps and adjusted caps decreased annually from 2014 to 2020, except in 2020 given the addition of New Jersey.
The International Energy Agency (IEA) reviewed the Australian energy sectors policies in 2018, the findings identified needed improvements to the country's emissions reduction targets, and further the energy sectors resilience.
By requiring JI credits to come from a host country's pool of AAUs, the Kyoto Protocol ensures that the total amount of emissions credits among Annex I parties does not change for the duration of the Kyoto Protocol's first commitment period.
Compliance and monitoring Since July 2024 the EU demands "real data" on how energy intensive imported goods were produced, while estimated standard values are only allowed for some 20% of the emissions.
On roads where adjacent bike paths or cycle tracks exist, the use of these facilities is compulsory, and cycling on the main carriageway is not permitted.
Usage Carbon traders use marginal abatement cost curves to derive the supply function for modelling carbon price fundamentals.
The report also went on to describe other, more reflective responses, which had focused on effective communication, psychology, satire, and ways of engaging with various audiences over climate change.
This both decreases demand for goods and services that produce high emissions and incentivizes making them less carbon-intensive.
After the ministers of each branch found joint positions trilogues including meetings with representatives of the council, parliament and commission start.
Companies or fleets of vehicles that intend to exceed these limits may buy emission reduction credits (ERCs) from entities that are able to remain below the designated limits.
The Program on Energy Efficiency in Artisanal Brick Kilns in Latin America to Mitigate Climate Change (EELA) is a program of the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC) which is implemented by Swiss contact in conjunction with its partners in nine countries in Latin America.
monetary – credit-feedbacks and decreasing default levels – aligned with calculated regional maximum emissions for emission-target achievement – of per capita emissions allowances.
In terms of the international carbon market, trade in AAUs are a small proportion of overall market value.
The cap-and-trade system is a tool of carbon pricing that has been adapted by several countries to mitigate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through a market mechanism.
TM44 inspections, or Air Conditioning Energy Assessments (ACEA), are required by law in the United Kingdom under the Energy Performance of Buildings Regulations 2007, amended in 2011 and 2012.
These projects reduce GHG voluntarily (outside the capped sectors) and therefore can be imported into the capped sector to aid in compliance.
The program paved the way for the planting of almost 1.4 billion seedlings in about 1.66 million hectares nationwide during the 2011–2016 period.
The London Accord is the largest cooperative project in the world on investment opportunities in avoiding climate change (about 7 million UK pounds).
Fakhruddin Ahmed was the chief adviser of the interim Government of Bangladesh during the political crisis of 2006–2008.
Utility bicycles tend to be equipped with accessories such as mudguards, pannier racks and lights, which extend their usefulness on a daily basis.
Provisions Provisions are included in the act for the creation of a Scottish Committee on Climate Change, as at present the only advisory body is the UK-wide Committee on Climate Change.
Parties that had "assigned amount units" to spare because of reductions in emissions below their Kyoto commitment set out in Article 3 and Annex B could sell those units to countries that had emissions exceeding their targets.
The Chinese national carbon trading scheme is an intensity-based trading system for carbon dioxide emissions by China, which started operating in 2021.
Copenhagen Accord In 2009 member states commenced at the United Nations Framework for Climate Change Conference (UNFCCC) and signed the Copenhagen Accord.
149): the setting of an overall EU cap, with allowances then allocated to EU members; tighter limits on the use of offsets; limiting banking of allowances between Phases II and III; a move from allowances to auctioning; and the inclusion of more sectors and gases.
NETT reported progress to CAF in December 2004, including the development of 10 key design propositions as a basis for further investigation and analysis of a NETS.
ICVCM's tagging manual sets out operational requirements for applying CCP-related tags and labels in program registries.
Energy Modeling Forum study 2012 In late 2012 the Energy Modeling Forum (EMF), coordinated by Stanford University, released its EMF 29 study titled "The role of border carbon adjustment in unilateral climate policy".
The APC manages a £1 billion investment fund, which is jointly supplied by the automotive industry – via the Automotive Council – and the UK government through the Department for Business and Trade (DBT) and managed by Innovate UK.
The findings spurred further investigation into its effects on ruminant animal enteric methane production.
ICVCM describes its role as assessing carbon crediting programs against the CCPs and publishing supporting materials for program eligibility and assessment, rather than operating as a carbon crediting program or issuing credits itself.
Already today, these costs of generating negative emissions are below the costs of CO2 of $220 per ton, which means that a state-subsidized business model for creating negative emissions already makes economic sense today.
The issue is more one of a shift in the mix of investments: moving away from fossil fuels and toward low carbon technologies and energy-efficient equipment and infrastructure.
Particularly in developing countries, the current infrastructures are not able to keep up with the increase of private vehicles, even after optimization and new construction of roadways.
Signed by 600 organizations spanning 76 countries, the Declaration is believed to have helped influence the government of Norway to divest from investment in exploration and production.
Other campaigners are strongly critical of World Bank-funded projects, which they say "have often created ecological hazards and destroyed ecological goods and services." Bangladeshi opponents of a World Bank-managed MDTF include the Equity and Justice Working Group Bangladesh (EquityBD).
This is followed by receiving information to identify a customer account, assigning the mobile emissions reduction to the customer account, calculating a MERC from the mobile emissions reduction, and crediting the MERC to the customer account.
The day-to-day work is supported by the ICAP Secretariat based in Berlin, Germany, under the guidance of the ICAP Co-Chairs.
They are typically supported by a body of readily available or explicitly commissioned data sets provided by various independent or industry-related organizations.
organisations, governments, communities, families, individuals) to demonstrate carbon neutrality for a product, service, organisation, community, event or building.
In December 2013, the Panama UN-REDD National Programme was reopened following an agreement between the Panama Government, through its National Environmental Authority (ANAM), and indigenous peoples, through the National Coordinating Entity of Indigenous Peoples in Panama (COONAPIP).
The proceeds were paid into a Green Fund, which will provided the resources for the implementation of the provincial climate change plan.
The agreement's language was negotiated by representatives of 196 state parties at the 21st Conference of the Parties of the UNFCCC in Le Bourget, near Paris, France, and adopted by consensus on December 12, 2015.
The final report was approved at the 11th session of the IPCC Working Group III, May 2011, in Abu Dhabi.
History CO2balance was founded in 2003 by former research chemist Mark Simpson and associated colleagues.
In August 2017, a group of academics, activists, and analysts issued the Lofoten Declaration which stressed that climate policy and governance required a managed decline of fossil fuel production.
See also Carbon offset Global warming Ecosia Forestle List of search engines References External links Official website
These curves have been used for various public and private actors either to assess carbon policies or through the use of a carbon market analysis tool.
These included credits produced under the Joint Initiative (JI) provision: Emission Reduction Unit credits; the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM): Certified Emission Reduction credits; and Assigned Amount Units (AAU) now also widely known as Hot Air in the post Soviet context.
History In May 2003 a report prepared for the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (O'Hara report) identified that although some funding for agricultural emissions was being provided by FRST and MAF, "The level of investment in abatement research by other public and private sources has been low".
As of August 2024, all Fit for 55 proposals had been adopted by the European Parliament and the Council, except the Energy Taxation Directive.
This IPCC special report provides broader coverage of renewable energy than was included in the IPCC's 2007 climate change assessment report, as well as stronger renewable energy policy coverage.
Ecocho was a search engine with the aim of offsetting carbon emissions by donating 70% of revenues to 'carbon offset credits'.
Negative emissions are widely considered an indispensable component of efforts to limit global warming, although negative emissions technologies are currently not economically viable for private sector companies.
Footprinting and life cycle assessments typically represent the first step in the carbon management process and are used to identify the key sources of emissions within an organisation's operations and any potential areas of savings.
Studies In 2015, Greenpeace and Climate Action Network Europe released a report highlighting the need for an active phase-out of coal-fired generation across Europe.
Compliance with PAS 2060 The specification defines a consistent set of measures and requirements for entities (e.g.
The GHGPPA requires that all provincial and territorial governments establish a pollution pricing scheme that meets the national minimum price per tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent and established emission caps under the act.
The structure and process of the ETSWAP system was outlined in a Mutual Understanding Document produced by the governments of the UK, Germany, Ireland and The Netherlands, which also dubbed the system "Workflow Automation Project" (WAP).
In Laos, for example, published research analysed how FCPF-linked REDD+ processes interacted with domestic forest zoning and land governance, and reported stakeholder concerns about participation and timing pressures associated with preparing for results-based finance.
Facts are supported by resources, such as live webcam and video sessions from the wildlife from the middle of the forests, showing the reforestation projects being carried out by PATT.
Two forms of coal are mined in Australia, depending on the region: high quality black coal and lower quality brown coal.
In Europe, Denmark and the Netherlands have the most bicycles per capita and most often use bicycles for everyday transport.
The fossil fuel system is global and requires a global solution—a solution the Leaders' Climate Summit must work towards.
UK Educational Programme In 2012, PATT launched a programme to join with almost 600 primary schools in the UK to provide educational materials, including online lesson plans and activities to be downloaded by teachers and used in classes.
those who want to use more emissions credits than they have been given) would be able to purchase additional credits from those who use less, so individuals that are under allocation would profit from their small carbon footprint.
Shane Ardern, a National Party MP, drove a tractor up the steps of Parliament as part of a protest against the tax.
By enforcing these inspections, the UK government encourages businesses to be more energy efficient and promotes a more sustainable approach to air conditioning.
See also Carbon emissions trading Politics of global warming Economics of global warming Mitigation of global warming Greenhouse Mafia References == Further reading and external links ==
In 2023 CH4 global reported its first commercial sale and intentions to feed the additive to 10,000 cattle.
This was realized through extensive consultations between ANAM and COONAPIP to resolve issues and develop an Environmental Agenda between indigenous peoples and the ANAM, which includes a revised result framework of the UN-REDD National Joint Programme of Panama.
Prices integrated into decision-making frameworks can be based on forecastings for established emissions trading schemes, government policies, the price of purchasing renewable energy, or taxes on certain commodities.
Architecture for REDD+ Transactions (ART) is a carbon-crediting programme for jurisdictional and national REDD+ activities.
The oversupplied market related to RGGI can be traced back to the transition from coal to natural gas as well as a weak economy during the time of implementation.
For the majority of residential electricity consumers, half the annual credit is applied in April and the other half is applied October.
It has a large portfolio of greenhouse gas emission reduction projects covering numerous countries and technologies.
The World Bank has been criticized for the harmful effects of its policies and for its governance structure.
Since then CO2balance has expanded its scope of activities from East Africa into Southern Africa, West Africa and Southern Asia.
Participating facilities are required to create a yearly emission inventory verified by a third party which was reported to the government.
For residential customers, each customer gets the same credit amount, regardless of how much energy the customer consumes.
A consultation document was published alongside the 2007 Energy White Paper, and responses were invited by 15 August 2007.
Additionally, every importer can be held accountable for the data they collect from their suppliers, but often lack the resources to control them all, or the influence to force the suppliers to comply with the CBAM regulations.
Methods Carbon dioxide removal Solar radiation modification Glacial geoengineering Governance Most governance issues relating to geoengineering are specific to the category or the specific method.
This is a common finding of economic cost-benefit analysis, and is driven by low estimates of marginal (or incremental) climate change damages (the social cost of carbon).
Nuclear energy Australia has approximately 40% of the world's uranium deposits, and is the world's third largest producer of uranium.
Cycling while seated is a relatively non-weight bearing exercise that, like swimming, does little to promote bone density.
Regional Economic Models study 2014 A private economic modeling company, Regional Economic Models, Inc (REMI), was commissioned by Citizens' Climate Lobby to conduct an objective analysis of the economic impacts of a revenue neutral carbon fee and dividend in the US.
In March 2010, the advisory group presented a plan to the MGA that called for implementation beginning in January 2012.
Its main summary of December 2007 said: The IPCC shows that the world needs to act to avoid disastrous climate change, and act now.
Geoengineering (also known as climate engineering or climate intervention) is the deliberate large-scale interventions in the Earth’s climate system intended to counteract human-caused climate change.
Yousef Alhorr, Global Carbon Council is facilitating organizations to implement carbon reduction projects and issue carbon credits that will be used to deliver, as indicated by the organizing parties, a carbon-neutral 2022 FIFA World Cup and many other potential carbon neutrality purposes.
They argued the division between Annex 1 and developing countries was unfair, and that both countries needed to reduce their emissions unilaterally.
See also Western Climate Initiative External links Government of Quebec: Carbon Pricing Environment Quality Act Cap & Trade Reporting == References ==
It is believed that vehicular pollution causes approximately 184,000 deaths around the world, and keeping cars out of heavily populated areas could reduce the impact of this pollution.
The Wuppertal Institute for Climate, Environment and Energy produced several marginal abatement cost curves for Germany (also called Cost Potential Curves), depending on the perspective (end-user, utilities, society).
The carboNZero programme and CEMARS programme are the world's first internationally accredited greenhouse gas (GHG) certification schemes under ISO 14065.
He lectured on aviation operations and management for Golden Gate University, and on aeronautics at Sierra Academy of Aeronautics, a school for professional pilots.
James Card (October 25, 1915 – January 16, 2000) was an American film preservationist who established the motion picture collection at George Eastman House, one of the major moving image archives in the United States.
Günther Theischinger (born 21 February 1940) is an Austrian entomologist who has specialized in dragonflies (Odonata) and other aquatic insects.
The exhibition used performance, photography, collage, video and sound installation to explore biomythography and non-traditional archiving.
In 2016 the English-language portal "The Culture Trip" included her in the list of "8 most influential women in Central Asian and Caucasian art".
He became a father figure to Marceline, protecting her from mutants and gifting her the stuffed animal Hambo, which became her most prized possession.
In 2019, Kholeif co-curated the 14th Sharjah Biennial: Leaving the Echo Chamber with curators, Zoe Butt and Claire Tancons.
After leaving junior high school in 1944, Karwemera enrolled at Nyakasura Vernacular Teacher Training College qualifying as a teacher of vernacular.
Malraux eventually reinstated Langlois after intense debate on 22 April, while reducing museum funding.
Art Gallery of Ontario Nanibush began work at the Art Gallery of Ontario in 2016 as an assistant curator of Canadian and Indigenous Art in the department of Canadian art.
The suppression and attempted erasure of many Indigenous languages is tied to settler colonial practices of assimilation of Indigenous peoples.
In 2011, Uranchimeg curated Modern Mongolia: From Steppe to Urban Dynamics, an exhibition of more than twenty, contemporary Mongolian artists at Hanart TZ Gallery in Hong Kong.
He was the former editor-in-chief of A Magazine Curated By and has served as a features editor of SSAW and Arena Homme + and has contributed to publications such Another, Architectural Digest, The Business of Fashion, Interview, New York Magazine The Cut, L'Uomo Vogue, Vogue, and Wallpaper.
Ongoing funding is uncertain as CSHD must compete with larger demining NGOs such as Mines Advisory Group and Halo Trust.
Awards and honors Ledoux received the Erasmus Prize, a Dutch award for contributions to art in 1988.
Edgardo Cozarinsky's 1994 documentary Citizen Langlois is an essayistic biography showing Langlois' progress from amateur collector to nouvelle vague hero and friend of the stars.
Her latest work, Piniartorsuit kinguaavi, was also nominated for the Nordic Council prize in 2013, though she lost to the Danish-Norwegian author Kim Leine.
In addition to selecting works, the curator is often responsible for writing labels, catalog essays, and other content supporting exhibitions.
The family settled in Yokohama when she was 12 and she entered the Ferris Girls' School, to study the English language.
He studied at Universidad Central de Venezuela, New School University, and holds a Master's in Interactive Telecommunications from New York University.
Njabala Foundation Kazungu founded the Njabala Foundation, a nonprofit organization that promotes the visibility of women artists through exhibitions, research initiatives, residencies, and mentorship programmes.
Hogue was recognized for her curatorial work in 2019 with an Award for Emerging Curator of Contemporary Canadian Art by the Hnatyshyn Foundation.
Countess Anna Sarah Maria Brigitte Elisabeth Lily Henckel von Donnersmarck (born 6 March 1973), known professionally as Anna Henckel-Donnersmarck, is a German filmmaker and film curator.
He received first prize for the "largest and best collection of stuffed birds and quadrupeds of Nova Scotia, with popular and scientific names".
Kashiko Kawakita introduced him to Yasujirō Ozu and was his sponsor when he applied for permanent residency in Japan.
from the University of Chicago, and attended the Whitney Museum Independent Study Program from 2002 to 2003.
In 2023, upon seeing his work on view in the National Gallery of Canada due to his Governor General's Award, he said that Métis art was lacking in the building and asked that the Métis should have more representation.
One of his artistic creations is the Black Box, a time capsule in the form of a book which documents over 25 years of "Plexus International" artistic activity.
Titles in the series follow the player character as they live in a village populated by anthropomorphic animals, with gameplay that proceeds in a nonlinear fashion and in-game events that occur in real-time.
you see him suffering as a consequence of the murders he has committed and that is when [his] humanity comes through.
Since 1994, he has been the curator of the Dead Sea Scrolls collection and the director of the Shrine of the Book at the Israel Museum, where he promoted the platform that displays the scrolls online for the world.
Early life and education Isaac is of Ojibway and British descent and is a member of Sagkeeng First Nation.
Silversword attacks Superboy and Green Lantern, and before they can react, seemingly pushes them to their deaths into a volcano.
Biography Garneau was born in Edmonton, Alberta and having a mother who was an artist, always made art.
The Alexandrian Project aimed to build a new main library building using computers and electronic resources more than books.
She co-curated the exhibition Making Doha 1950-2030 at the National Museum of Qatar, which used archival material, oral history and photographs to explore the architectural history of the city.
In 2013 she published a book titled The Legacies of Jean-Luc Godard (WLU Press) along with Douglas Morrey and Nicole Cote.
John Eni-Ibukun (born 13 June 1997), also known as June Sometimes, is a Nigerian artist, writer, and the Head of Curation for Afrobeats and African Gospel at Audiomack.
While Archives 2.0 may refer to implementing new technologies, it is also a way of engaging with archives in an effort to promote openness and flexibility of archival materials.
Works Among his published books, A Day At Qumran: The Dead Sea Sect and Its Scrolls, published by The Israel Museum, Jerusalem (1998), stands out.
He served as the Asia bureau chief for THR until August 2013, when Clifford Coonan took over the role, and became a senior film reviewer for THR.
Significant works of translation include Vinterbørn by Dea Trier Mørch and Århundradets kärlekssaga by Märta Tikkanen.
The work of Stojanova is mainly focused on Canadian multicultural cinema, Eastern European cinema and German cinema during the war.
Some of these include Móvil, an exhibition and performance by Guatemalan artist Regina José Galindo at the Museo de Arte Contemporáneo (MUAC) and UNAM’s independence bi-centenary celebration project: The Ghost of Liberty, México 2010.
Graduates with PhDs usually become teaching faculty in schools of library and information science, or sometimes occupy the directorship or deanship of university libraries.
She has curated several art exhibitions in Bangalore, India and has worked with pioneering artists like S.G.Vasudev , Yusuf Arakkal and Balan Nambiar [2].
Barakat's artwork is found in museum collections, including at the British Museum in London; Umm al-Fahm Art Gallery in Umm al-Fahm, Israel; and the Jordan National Gallery of Fine Arts in Amman.
Hagemeyer also constructed a manual of resources for Deaf people and those associated with them called The Red Notebook, which is now online at the website of the Friends of Libraries for Deaf Action.
Yefimovich co-founded "The Archive Magazine," an Israeli platform dedicated to promoting and showcasing documentary photography.
Paramesh Krishnan Nair (6 April 1933 – 4 March 2016) was an Indian film archivist and film scholar, who was the founder and director of the National Film Archive of India (NFAI) in 1964.
She is thus closest to Terry Smith’s contemporaneous insistence on the intellectual seriousness of art criticism, requiring attention to structure, temporality, and contexts of meaning in modern and postmodern art, though she is less theoretical, meta-critical or programmatic than Smith.
Givanni has served on film juries at African film festivals such as FESPACO (from 1985), Zanzibar Festival of the Dhow Countries, the All Africa Film Awards in South Africa, the JCCarthage and others.
Education Redler-Hawes has a degree in Fine art Painting from Norwich University of the Arts 1989 - 1991 and a second degree in Curating from the Royal College of Art 1994 - 1996.
The inaugural award was bestowed on Margaret Myers, Director, Office of Library Personnel Resources of the American Library Association in 1984.
As Barry spent the war years going to the cinema, when she wrote her book Let's go to the pictures (1926), she explicitly stated: "Going to the pictures is nothing to be ashamed of" (p.
She has been working with new media, performance, and interdisciplinary arts for more than 30 years.
Crandall and his team rode out a storm for six days before they were rescued, and he arrived back in New York after a 44-day voyage, having not lost a single specimen.
DE librarians also assist faculty with designing course-specific web-pages and provide copyright advisement.
Dixon left Carnegie Museum of Art in 1975, and William Judson, a film professor at the University of Pittsburgh, succeeded her as curator.
Career Artwork Rafiee embarked on her career as an artist in 2001, when she participated in a group exhibition in Tehran.
He appears in the video game Indiana Jones and the Infernal Machine (1999) in the secret level "Return to Peru", where Indiana returns to the same temple and finds the second idol.
His paleontological research led to his work on the fossil birds Palaeochenoides mioceanus and Nesotrochis debooyi.
While editor of The American Archivist she emphasized technical rather than scholarly issues, believing that archival records were useful in ways other than scholarly research.
Black Radical Imagination Black Radical Imagination is an international film program founded by Erin Christovale and Amir George.
Dennis Lim is a New York-based film curator and critic who has served as the artistic director of the New York Film Festival, since 2020.
Early life and education Âhasiw Maskêgon-Iskwêw (Donald Ghostkeeper) was born in 1958 in McLennan, Alberta.
Biography Born in Portsmouth, in Saint John Parish, Dominica, Lennox Honychurch can trace his lineage in the Caribbean back to the 1790s.
Adrian Stimson: Maanipokaa'iini at Remai Modern (April 2 to September 4, 2022) was the first survey exhibition of this Siksika Nation artist, and was accompanied by a monograph publication.
On Gadot's casting as Wonder Woman, Snyder said "Wonder Woman is arguably one of the most powerful female characters of all time and a fan favorite in the DC Universe.
In 2002, she co-founded the Master's Program in Curatorial Practice at the California College of the Arts (CCA) in San Francisco, the first program of its kind on the West Coast.
Pele's attack devastates much of the countryside and brings harm to many Hawaiians, making Silversword realize how evil the goddess is.
Between 2019 and 2023, she was an associate professor of Indigenous art history at Concordia University in Montreal, Quebec, where she held the University Research Chair in Indigenous Circumpolar Arts.
He has written a book about the work of South Korean filmmaker Hong Sang-soo, which was published in 2022, and a book on David Lynch, published in 2015.
He attended school in Willowmore until the age of 13, completed his primary education at Wesbank Primary School in Oudtshoorn, and later moved with his family to Uniondale, where he attended Uniondale High School from 2000 onward.
Doctor O's inner world was left to bare in a collaboration with Turner-prize nominated artist, Heather Phillipson, entitled, My Life in the Metaverse.
Her work also extends to festival direction, workshops, and conferences speaking on Ugandan arts and heritage.
In November 1948, Card joined the staff of the newly created George Eastman House with the initial title of "assistant to the curator", who was Beaumont Newhall.
Curatorial and arts administration Maskêgon-Iskwêw maintained an active curatorial practice across Canada.
The exhibition received an Award for Excellence from the Association of Art Museum Curators in 2023.
Biography Daina graduated with a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree from Emily Carr Institute of Art and Design (ECUAD) in 2003 and gained an MA Critical and Curatorial Studies from the University of British Columbia in 2012.
Archivists process the records physically by placing them in acid-free folders and boxes to ensure their long-term survival.
1959 The Wonderful World of the Air (Garden City Books) 1960 Nature: Earth, Plants, Animals (Macdonald) with Julian Huxley.
In 2018, Igloliorte was also appointed curatorial lead for the inaugural exhibition at the Inuit Art Centre at the Winnipeg Art Gallery.
In June 2017, he was awarded an honorary doctorate in literature by Kabale University for promoting culture.
Elvira Espejo Ayca (born 1981) is an Indigenous Bolivian artist, poet, and the director of the National Museum of Ethnography and Folklore in La Paz until 2020.
In 1955, Card discovered Louise Brooks living as a recluse in New York City and persuaded her to move to Rochester, New York, to be near the George Eastman House.
Wetmore is commemorated in the scientific names of one species and two subspecies of reptiles: Pholidoscelis wetmorei, Uromacer frenatus wetmorei, and Anolis brevirostris wetmorei.
This stewardship is usually outside the acceptance of authority figures, hence the guerrilla or underground nature of the action taken.
Selected curatorial projects Located in the Downtown Eastside of Vancouver, British Columbia, Hogue co-founded Gam Gallery in 2009, an exhibition space and artist studio that operated until 2019.
In the 2022 New Year Honours, Māhina-Tuai was appointed a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to cultures and the arts.
The Collector re-appeared when the Avengers fought Thane Ector and the Brethren, who were noted to have escaped from the Collector's collection.
This prestigious grande école (literally, "grand schools") offers a diploma in "Archivist-Paleography", created in 1849, after a three-year curriculum.
References External links ArCHIAM: Decoration and Construction of Omani Traditional Architecture National Museum (Oman): Our Staff YouTube: Magan and Copper - National Museum of Oman
During this period Barakat began to work with materials such as local clay (and he added hay for consistency), wood and fire.
He appears in the second half of the episode Young Indiana Jones and the Curse of the Jackal (later edited into the second half of the film Spring Break Adventure), where he encounters a 16-year-old Indiana Jones in Mexico.
As a result, the following year, he was appointed a professor at the new Princely Academy of Saint Sava in Bucharest.
In 2024, she was a speaker for the exhibition GAUGUIN’S WORLD: Tōna Iho, Tōna Ao at the National Gallery of Australia (Canberra), in connection with the Savage Klub and its founder Rosanna Raymond, and supported the participation of Tahitian artist Tahe Drollet.
"The Latin American Spirit: Art and Artists in the United States" (Co-written), English, also available in Spanish, Bronx Museum of the Arts/Harry Abrams, New York, U.S.A., 1989.
The same year, Christensen also developed a short film series to tell the stories of small rural communities across southern Alberta and Saskatchewan, The Grasslands Project.
In 2015, Christensen produced Guy Maddin and Evan Johnson's feature, The Forbidden Room, and the feature documentary Hadwin's Judgement, based in part on John Vaillant's book The Golden Spruce about Grant Hadwin.
Stirbei donated two paintings from his own collection to start the gallery; one by Gheorghe Tattarescu, who was studying in Rome, and one by Petre Alexandrescu.
She previously studied for a BA degree in Heritage and Cultural Studies from Curtin University (formally known as Western Australian Institute of Technology) in Perth.
Here, Kholeif was "charged with overseeing the foundation's acquisition strategy, developing exhibitions and other programming, and securing international partnerships".
The first consecutive screenings took place in 2013 in Los Angeles, New York, and Chicago between Feb-May.
He noted the need for Wikipedia to strengthen partnerships with museums to create the most up-to-date and accurate information, saying "we are doing the same thing for the same reason, for the same people, in the same medium.
Paradoxically, these final works are bolder, more confident, broader, than anything Klee had done before.
Several taxa of birds have been named in his honor, including the Cretaceous genus Alexornis and the tanagers Wetmorethraupis sterrhopteron and Buthraupis wetmorei.
Designed as a playspace for children, its design was inspired by modernist buildings in the country, including Qatar Post, Qatar University, the Sheraton Grand Doha Resort & Convention Hotel, Qatar National Theatre and the Qatar Ministry of Information building.
He later attended Joseph Ayo Babalola University, Osun State, where he completed his tertiary education, graduating in November 2024.
Silversword joins Superboy and Green Lantern and attacks Pele, but is badly damaged by her lava attacks.
In this way, Martín created a process where Mexican artistic production gradually began to be intertwined with the international art scene.
His father, Arturo Angel Vallejo, was manager of the Pan American Life Insurance Company in Medellin, Colombia.
As an art curator and impresario, he is the founder of Plexus International, an international cooperative arts organizations whose participants have included Butch Morris, Lorenzo Pace, Miguel Algarin, William Parker, Shalom Neuman, and Stephen DiLauro.
After receiving an Aboriginal Curatorial Collective Residency to work with grunt gallery in Vancouver, British Columbia in 2000, Daina remained at the gallery as associate curator and administrator until 2009.
References External links David Christensen at IMDb War Hospital at the National Film Board of Canada
Sandro Dernini (born 1949 in Cagliari, Sardinia, Italy) is an Italian visual artist, curator, and biochemist.
Nanibush has been an active community organizer participating in demonstrations against the Iraq War and uranium processing, and raising awareness about the relationship between racism and lack of education.
From 2016 to 2018 he was the director of The Palestinian Museum in Birzeit (25 km north of Jerusalem), which was officially inaugurated in May 2016.
Career Throughout 2003 Ooi worked on a number of regional projects in various capacities with institutions and galleries in Southeast Asia focusing mainly on Malaysian, Indonesian and Filipino contemporary art.
As part of the role, Nanibush created a new Indigenous Curator position and co heads the department with Georgiana Uhlyarik, the curator of Canadian Art.
However, some concerns have always intrigued me, and those are related to man's behavior, socio-culturally speaking...I think people can see that as a constant in my work throughout the many—and sometimes different stages...
During her tenure, as a consequence of the Sudanese Civil War, objects from the collections of the National Museum of Sudan were stolen, and some were found being sold on at the border with, and within, South Sudan.
He wrote, among others, for The Village Voice, Vice, Variety, Vanity Fair, LA Weekly, Indiewire, Filmmaker Magazine, GreenCine Daily (editor from 2009 to 2013), and Spin.
In other media Television The Collector appears in Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H., voiced by Jeff Bennett.
Li was among the Hong Kong film critics who signed Edward Yang's Taiwan Film Manifesto, which marked the beginning of the Taiwan New Cinema.
The exhibition, co-sponsored by the Metropolitan Museum and the City Center of Music and Drama in New York, showed seventy films dating from the medium's first seventy-five years on thirty-five consecutive evenings from July 29 to September 3, 1970.
He was approached by the princess of the Tengu world Nyotengu, proving his might as a man who ended Bankotsubo’s crime, sparring her and tells her to leave human world, satisfying her as well.
Baduarius (Greek: Βαδουάριος) is a figure of 6th century Constantinople, known only from a single inscription in an epitaph.
In 2001, he translated American film theorist David Bordwell's Planet Hong Kong: Popular Cinema and the Art of Entertainment into Chinese, after the two had befriended each other in 1995 during Bordwell's visit to the HKIFF.
Their editorial suggested that physicians should be delegating their information needs to informationists, just as they currently order CT scans from radiologists or cardiac catheterizations from cardiologists.
In 2017, Nanibush and Georgiana Uhlyarik renamed the department of Canadian Art, the department of Indigenous and Canadian Art, and developed a new nation to nation model of sharing power.
A public appeal allowed the seabird island of Copinsay, Orkney, to be purchased as a permanent nature reserve dedicated to his name.
Together with Hammer Museum senior curator Anne Ellegood, Christovale curated the museum's fourth Made in L.A.
From the museum's inception until his retirement in 1977, Card built the collection and gave it an international identity.
Because she experienced for herself how women were disadvantaged in the archive profession, she encouraged women through publications in De Hollandsche Lelie not to be inferior to men in terms of education, because she had noticed that in cases of equal suitability men were often given preference.
Pharmaceutical/Neutraceutical Industry In 2001, Subramanian co-founded DESA India, a Supply Chain Management company in Pharmaceutical Chemicals in Bangalore, India.
Notes References "James Card; Telluride Film Festival Co-Founder", Los Angeles Times, January 21, 2000.
In 2022 he worked as an A&R and creative contributor on Yamen Yamen, a collective music album released by Drummr Africa, which involved artists from multiple African countries.
Hogue co-organized the touring exhibition, #callresponse with Maria Hupfield and Tania Willard, which was first held at grunt gallery in 2016.
Her work frequently explores themes of identity, gender representation, social transformation, and cultural memory.
A chance conversation with his class president, the nephew of the Treasurer of the New York Zoological Society (now the Wildlife Conservation Society), led to an interview with Director of the New York Zoological Park (now the Bronx Zoo), William T.
Legacy Karwemera founded the Bakiga Cultural Museum in Kabale (sometimes referred to as The Home of Edirisa Museum or locally Akehongo Kabaana Ba Karwemera (Karwemera's Children's Hiding Place)).
2016 – Unceded Territories: Lawrence Paul Yuxweluptun, the Museum of Anthropology at UBC (as a co-curator) 2016 – Nanitch: Early Photographs of British Columbia from the Langmann Collection (as co-curator), Presentation House Gallery, renamed The Polygon Gallery, North Vancouver, Canada.
With Leach Decter, "(official denial) trade value in progress: Unsettling Narratives" in Reconcile This!
At the age of fourteen, she wanted to be a chef and as she grew up her interests shifted to designing furniture.
She is a member of the House of Henckel von Donnersmarck, an Austro-German noble family that once owned large estates in Silesia.
Jepchumba graduated with a degree in Critical Social Thinking, and later completed a Masters in Digital Media at the London Metropolitan University.
Prior to that, she served as Director of the City of New York Department of Cultural Affairs Percent for Art Program (2008–2014) and Associate Dean of the School of Art, The Cooper Union.
From 2007 to 2019, Henckel-Donnersmarck served as a member of the Berlin International Film Festival's Berlinale Shorts selection committee.
After working for two decades in private industry, he joined CSIRO to oversee aquatic insect collections and later assisted the NSW Environmental Protection Authority with invertebrate identification.
In 2016, he curated a documentary screening series on the People's Socialist Republic of Albania for the Cinéma du Réel at the Centre Pompidou in Paris, France.
King Charles V of France began his own library, and he kept his collection as a bibliophile, an attribute that is closely connected to librarians of this time.
Her maternal grandmother is from Derry, while her Palestinian father was born in the village of Delhamiya.
Research and publications Books Koon is best known for her monograph on Japanese artist Yoshitomo Nara, published by Phaidon Press in 2020.
During her time there, she significantly expanded the organization's international reach and founded the Curatorial Intensive, the first short-term professional training program for curators.
His recent productions also include Everything Will Be, a 2014 documentary film about the fate of Vancouver's Chinatown, for which he approached Vancouver filmmaker Julia Kwan to direct her first non-fiction film.
She presents the Whitney as both a powerful institutional arbiter and a focus of ritualised criticism, comparable in role, if not magnitude, to the Sydney Biennale.
MoMA PS1 and Hearthland Foundation (2019–present) In 2019, Fowle succeeded Klaus Biesenbach as the director of MoMA PS1 in Queens, New York.
She designs short film video installations for exhibitions and concerts and worked as a lecturer on film theory and video practice.
(Film Threat) gave a similarly positive review, calling it "a wistful, thought-provoking rumination on the cost of progress." Hillis is one of the programmers at Cucalorus Film Festival (in Wilmington, North Carolina), where he curates the "Convulsions" genre program since 2013.
The Travel Sheet made it possible for filmmakers to book additional screenings and in-person presentations, which became primary sources of income, exposure, and dialogue for artists during this early period of new media's institutionalization.
Career Māhina-Tuai's research focuses on the history of Tongan crafts, in particular textiles, and her research is based on the primary importance of Tongan indigenous knowledge.
His paintings have been used in many books about the Titanic, most notably his depictions of the sinking, of which no photographs that could be used were taken.
He was curator of Canadian art at the Art Gallery of Ontario from 2004 until 2012, when he was succeeded by Andrew Hunter.
To prepare for the embedded informationist role, librarians are undertaking education as needed to supplement their backgrounds.
Holloway does insist on the politically and culturally radical properties of particular postmodern artistic practices, but these remain, not coincidentally, the practices of an engaged feminist art.
"Ron was the one who was crucial to allow the project to start, and the rest is history," said Lorraine Slater, executive director of the "Gorilla Foundation of Woodside" and http://www.koko.org.
Artwork McMaster draws and paints with humour and an ironic juxtaposition of traditional and contemporary pop culture elements.
Nanibush has a long-standing relationship with Anishinaabe multimedia artist Rebecca Belmore and has curated a series of shows featuring her work including KWE: Photography, Sculpture, Video and Performance by Rebecca Belmore (2014) at the Justina M.
Protesters in Paris included the student activist Daniel Cohn-Bendit from University of Nanterre-Paris.
Moira Zeta Enetama is a Niuean curator and cultural activist, who, as of 2021, was acting director of the Ministry of Social Services in Niue.
She also worked for many years as a curator at the Greenland National Museum, serving as director from 1982 until her retirement in 2004.
In recognition of her work, she was invited to participate in the project 9 Curators, organized by Gerardo Mosquera and the Spanish Cultural Centers in Argentina and Chile.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, Tsui introduced a remastered classics screening program at the Cinematheque.
Before becoming Director Asia for Art Basel, Ooi worked as Art Basel's VIP Relations Manager for Southeast Asia, covering Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam for two years.
In 2012, Celluloid Man, an award-winning documentary was made on his life and works, by Shivendra Singh Dungarpur.
Her Amerasinghe Ganendra Collection of Modern and Contemporary Art includes extensive holdings of Sri Lankan and Malaysian works, including one of the largest private collections of artworks by the Sri Lankan Group of '43 (Modernists).
The ABA also requires a library's collection to meet the academic needs of the students and research and teaching needs of the faculty.
When Felix was 16, his father allowed him to take art courses at the Institute of Fine Arts of Medellin, which he paid for (during this time, Felix was still in High School).
Between December 2008 and March 2010, the Migraciones: Mirando al Sur exhibit traveled through Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Mexico, United States of America, and Costa Rica—showing at the Spanish Cultural Centers of each country.
References External links Official website Ken Marschall at IMDb Artist Biography Archived 2016-06-12 at the Wayback Machine
External links ALIA: Careers in Library and Information Management Archived 2021-11-22 at the Wayback Machine U.S.
Beginning in the 1960s, he collaborated with Tony Watson on the taxonomy and ecology of Australian dragonflies, particularly their value as environmental indicators.
Conservation work Conradie has participated in several projects under the EDGE of Existence Programme of the Zoological Society of London.
In the film, Short Round is frequently heard speaking Cantonese (despite being born in Wu-speaking Shanghai), as well as English.
In 2009 the United States Department of State, Office of Weapons Removal and Abatement granted the Landmine Relief Fund US$100,000 to help CSHD in their work to clear ERW (explosive remnants of war) in "low priority villages" in Cambodia.
The sculptural installation consists of a ceremonial cape, photographs, and materials such as Lauhala, coconut hull fiber, seagrass, red cedar bark, wool, abalone shell, and mother of pearl buttons that are used by makers from the Sḵwx̱wú7mesh (Squamish) and Hawaiian territories.
Career Henckel-Donnersmarck worked as a film programmer and presenter at Stuttgarter Filmwinter, Kasseler Dokfest, Zebra Poetry Film Festival, Pictoplasma, Internationales Animationfilm-Festival Stuttgart, the Szpilman Award, and Filmfest Dresden.
2006 - “About feminist art and socially, politically engaged art,” seminar at the Institute of Human Rights and Democracy (IHRD), Yerevan.
Kolokesa Uafā Māhina-Tuai is a Tongan curator and writer, whose work explores the role of craft in Tongan society.
Wasson elaborates on MoMA's Film Library's effort to create modern audience for art cinema by employing overt disciplinary strategies.
She was the curator of the 15th Sharjah Biennial in 2023, titled "Thinking Historically in the Present" which was originally to be curated by the late Okwui Enwezor.
Ken Marschall (born October 28, 1950) is an American painter and illustrator notable for his paintings of famous ocean liners, such as the RMS Titanic, RMS Lusitania, and HMHS Britannic, and other transportation vessels including the Bismarck, LZ 127 Graf Zeppelin and LZ 129 Hindenburg.
He obtained his PhD from the School of Education of New York University and his doctorate in biology from the University of Cagliari in Italy.
She is the author of numerous monographs and critical texts for publications, catalogs, and art books.
Art career Merhi has produced a variety of works that engage electronic circuits, computers, video game systems, touch screens, and other devices in the presentation of his written words.
Casa Wabi Foundation In 2014, Martín conceived the program under which Fundación Casa Wabi operates.
The Collector makes a cameo appearance in the mid-credits scene of Thor: The Dark World (2013), in which Sif and Volstagg give the Aether to him for safekeeping as they feel it is too dangerous to have it near the Tesseract since both contain Infinity Stones.
Al Qasimi was named the most influential person in the contemporary art world in 2024, according to ArtReview’s Power 100 list.
Also an artist and a curator, he was largely responsible for compiling the exhibit information for The Dominica Museum in Roseau.
POYI (Picture of the Year International): Award of Excellence for Spot News and Finalist Award for impact (Gaza-Israel).
Sally and John Dixon divorced and she married her second husband, physicist Ricardo Bloch, who later became a photographer.
His film screenings in Paris in the 1950s are often credited with providing the ideas that led to the development of the auteur theory.
Warren was elected as one of four Indigenous women curators as part of 2015 Asia-Pacific Visual Arts Delegation to participate in the First Nations Curators Exchange an International Visitors Program of the 8th Asia-Pacific Trienniale (APT8) in Brisbane, Australia.
The intent is to protect Indigenous knowledge and works from being exploited or appropriated within other media or by cultural institutions.
In 2020, he edited and published Echoes of Cinematic Dreams: The Surviving Records of Wong Ain-ling, an essay collection about the works of film scholar Wong Ain-ling.
Awards He has won awards for curating in Sydney, Australia, as well as for mentorship and Métis art in Saskatchewan.
Many different types, sizes, and collections are found in academic libraries and some academic librarians are specialists in these collections and archives.
The son of Susana and Manuel Roitman, a native of San Juan from the town of General San Martín, Roitman was born and raised in the Jewish community of the Buenos Aires neighborhood of La Paternal, and studied at the University of Buenos Aires.
He has also said that his team focuses on nonfiction, watching and tracking film projects that can be accessible and connective, and draw in different audiences.
Let's do it together." The Children's Museum of Indianapolis became involved with the program after Wikipedian Lori Phillips volunteered for a GLAM event in 2010, becoming the second Wikipedian in residence.
From 2015 to 2023, she served as Director Asia for Art Basel’s show in Hong Kong and as a member of Art Basel's executive committee.
She helped open FIFO to other Pacific festivals (Australia, New Zealand, New Caledonia, Hawaiʻi) by supporting the PADISA framework.
In 2011, she commissioned one of Malaysia's earliest green buildings, the award-winning Gallery Residence (also known as the Ganendra Art House).
She was formerly Chief Curator and Director of National Academician Affairs at the National Academy of Design (2021–2025) and Executive and Artistic Director of the Shelley and Donald Rubin Foundation (2014–2021).
His work, often characterized by an empathetic and observational style, has been featured by major news agencies and exhibited internationally.
In parallel, she curated several exhibitions, including the Polynesian representation at the Révélations art fair in Paris and “Maro‘ura, a Polynesian Treasure” at the Musée du Quai Branly – Jacques Chirac.
Marschall has also served as consultant to many works about the Titanic, including James Cameron's Ghosts of the Abyss, as well as Cameron's film of the same name, the two-part A&E television specials Death of a Dream and The Legend Lives On, and the video game Titanic: Honor and Glory.
Fatma Ibrahim Al Sehlawi, in Arabic: فاطمة إبراهيم السهلاوي, is an architect, artist, curator and businesswoman.
Education and background Uranchimeg Tsultem credits her father, Nyam-Osoryn Tsultem (1923–2001)—an artist, a scholar, and a founder of the Fine Arts Zanabazar Museum (1996)—for contributing to her interests in Buddhist and Mongolian modern art.
federal agencies have libraries and librarians who serve the legal research and other research needs of their employees and contractors, but these libraries are not open to the general public without an appointment.
She is the founder and director of Shalini Ganendra Advisory (SGA) and the initiator of Gallery Weekend Kuala Lumpur (GWKL) in 2016, a city-wide cultural event that provides exposure to regional art movements and cultural ecosystems.
In both 2003 and 2004 he was a facilitator at the annual Connecting Aboriginal Canadians Forum in Ottawa, presented by the Aboriginal Canada Portal Working Group.
Nissen: Erfaring, styrke – og håb, translated as Misilittagaqarneq, sapiissuseqalerneq, aamma neriunneq 1996: Maaliaaraq Vebæk: Navaranaaq og andre, translated as Navaranaaq allallu 1997: Jørgen F.
She graduated in Art History and Psychology from the University of Costa Rica, where she works as a researcher and teacher.
For this event, she curated a monographic exhibition of Margarita Azurdia, a fundamental Guatemalan artist from the 1960s.
"First of all, there just be facilities and staff—then you go on from there, to match what other zoos already are accomplishing" Reuther said in 1968.
He conducted extensive excavations, included more allusions to past rulers in his writings than most other kings, and is the earliest known person in history to attempt to chronologically date archaeological artifacts.
During her term, Rehuher-Marugg was successful in getting the Rock Islands Southern Lagoon recognised as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
The work was displayed in formats ranging from wall-to-wall projection to a small TV set, to "echo the sentiments of people in the midst of catastrophe," Christovale said.
Between 2006 and 2008, she worked as Curator and Program Director of Valentine Willie Fine Art gallery, Kuala Lumpur.
He used his experience at Saint Sava to acquire and organize the first collection of sculpture casts, based on the works of the old Italian Masters.
It became an enormous hit, after its success at the box office, the Kawakitas always travelled to Europe together to select films.
Eurogamer said that Ryu Hayabusa became a more notable character thanks to the presentation of the first NES Ninja Gaiden as its cutscenes elaborated more on him like links to a father figure and villains the hero often has to fight.
degree from at the Faculty of Fine Arts, Alexandria University (formerly Helwan University, Alexandria), he attended from 1978 to 1983.
public law libraries, with a collection at just under 1 million volumes, not including digital resources.
Hermine Christine Hélène Moquette (Sluis, 25 April 1869 – Bilthoven, 17 December 1945) was a Dutch historian and one of the first female archivists in the Netherlands.
She is the recipient of the Hnatyshyn Foundation Visual Arts Awards for Curatorial Excellence in Contemporary Art.
After the US Navy uses Kahoʻolawe, a remote and uninhabited part of Hawaii, for target practice, Silversword begins attacking Navy ships.
During her directorship of Taoga Niue, Cyclone Heta destroyed Huanaki Cultural Centre & Museum, a disaster that Enetama described as "devastating".
The exhibition Mongol Zurag: The Art of Resistance, which Uranchimeg curated in collaboration with the Mongol Zurag Society, showed at the Garibaldi Gallery in Venice, Italy from April 20-November 2024.
Other Ice King had a cameo appearance in Adventure Time: Distant Lands, a limited series based on Adventure Time.
Biography Early life and education Born in Tashkent in 1985, Umerova developed an early interest in the arts, supported by her family and education.
In 2015, she chaired the association organizing FIFO and became a technical advisor for communication and culture to the Minister of Culture, Environment and Communication, where she launched preliminary studies for the future cultural center of French Polynesia.
A guerrilla librarian is a person who may or may not be a professional librarian, but has otherwise taken up the stewardship of books or other material.
In Adventure Time: Fionna and Cake, Simon struggles to deal with the loss of Betty and to adjust to life in the magical world of Ooo now that he no longer has magical powers.
From 2015 to 2017, Isaac served as the Winnipeg Art Gallery's Aboriginal Curatorial Resident, a position funded by the Canada Council for the Arts.
Wyss's contribution was a 2018 work titled Shḵwen̓ Wéw̓ shḵem Nexw7iy̓ay̓ulh (To Explore, To Travel by Canoe).
Reception Adventure Time The character originally earned a mixed reception, with some critics considering him to be a one-dimensional villain.
Introduced in Animal Crossing: Wild World Animal Crossing: Wild World was released on the Nintendo DS in 2005.
resources and knowledge." Conversely, British journalist Andrew Orlowski criticized another advertised post as a waste of government funds.
The show featured works by 32 contemporary artists engaging with the concept of American citizenship, particularly in the context of the political climate surrounding the 2016 presidential election.
Nansubuga is an associate curator for Satellites-of-Art (SOA), an online platform connecting African, Latin American, and Middle Eastern artists with buyers in the Northern Hemisphere.
Early life and education John Eni-Ibukun was born on 13 June 1997 in Lagos, he hails from Oye Local Government Area in Ekiti State and was born and raised in Ikorodu, Lagos State.
Her publications include the edited volumes Remote Control: Dilemmas of Black Intervention in British Film and TV (1996) and Symbolic Narratives/African Cinema: Audiences, Theory and the Moving Image (2001).
Most law schools around the world have a law library, or in some universities, at least a section of the university library devoted to law.
Career Tsiokos had originally intended to become professor in film studies, but while in graduate school he interned at NewFest film festival and was later elevated to become artistic director within two years.
In 2011, her co-edited book with Béla Szabados titled Wittgenstein at the Movies: Cinematic Investigations was published by Lexington Books.
Kashiko Kawakita (川喜多かしこ, Kawakita Kashiko; March 21, 1908 - July 27, 1993) was a Japanese film producer and film curator, and the wife of Nagamasa Kawakita.
Jacques Ledoux (1921 – 6 June 1988) was a Polish-born Belgian cinema specialist, the first curator of the Royal Film Archive of Belgium (Cinémathèque royale de Belgique) from 1948 to 1988 and the founder of the Cinema Museum in Brussels (Musée du cinéma de Bruxelles) in 1962.
Hannah Redler-Hawes is a curator and consultant specialising in digital, AI and emerging media practices.
He previously worked as Editor-in-Chief at Drummr Africa, where he published editorial features on African musicians and creatives, including Tems, Yemi Alade, and Falana.
As an independent curator, her training has also allowed her to work on the topics of community museums, sustainability, collection research, exhibition curation, and curatorial accompaniment of artistic production.
References External links Interview with Willard Van Dyck and Margareta Akermark, 9 June 1972, Smithsonian Institution Archives
They conceived of an information professional who was embedded in (and indeed, supported by) the clinical departments.
2016 - “A Step Behind the Line,” solo exhibition of Ariadna Garcia Chas (Spain), Modern Art Museum, Yerevan, Armenia.
After moving to the Golan Heights when he was 8, they were displaced again during the Naksa; her father came to London in his 20s.
Bibliography Books by Félix Ángel: "Te Quiero Mucho Poquito Nada" (I Love You, I Love You Not), novel, Spanish, Félix Ángel, Medellin, 1974.
From 2010 to 2011 she curated the exhibition Nimamea’a: The fine arts of Tongan embroidery and crochet, which aimed to give prominence to the role that crochet in particular has in Tongan artistry.
Between 1994 and 2005, Maskêgon-Iskwêw administered the on-line Aboriginal media arts network Drumbeats to Drumbytes.
Ooi is the recipient of The Nippon Foundation’s Asian Public Intellectual (Junior) Fellowships Grant 2002/2003.
During this period, Ron continued to work on advancing the study of wildlife by establishing the Point Reyes Bird Observatory.
The same newspaper included Jepchumba in 2015 as one of the "10 Pioneering Names in Tech in Africa".
The book has been translated into Japanese (2023) and Korean (2022) and is considered the definitive scholarly work on the artist.
In June that year, Black Radical Imagination was invited to screen at Mickalene Thomas’s Art Bar Installation, Better Days in Basel, Switzerland.
His experience led him to the Dominion Exhibition in Halifax in 1881, where he acted as a committee member and juror.
The games introduce many of the series' core recurring characters, notably businessman Tom Nook, traveling musician K.K.
#callresponse (2016) Co-organized by Tarah Hogue, Maria Hupfield and Tania Willard, this exhibition addressed five projects commissioned by Indigenous artists based across Canada and the United States.
Agha narrated her first documentaries Atahualpa: Death of the Last Inca Emperor and Inside Britain's Secret Nuclear Bunker.
She was invited as a speaker to discuss performance art and video art in Guatemala at the event Performing Localities, organized by the Royal College of Art, London, 2009.
During her time as a curator, Rehuher-Marugg promoted Palauan culture to regional and international organisations including ICOMOS and UNESCO.
Selected works Sean Mallon, Kolokesa Mahina-Tuai and Damon Salesa (eds): Tangata o le Moana: New Zealand and the People of the Pacific.
An empty lot at 271 Union Street was transformed into a Pacific Northwest Coast rain forest garden containing flora representing the local biodiversity that can be found across the traditional and unceded lands of the Skwxwú7mesh (Squamish), Musqueam and Tsleil-Waututh Nations.
Adolfo Daniel Roitman (born June 13, 1957) is an archaeologist and expert in comparative religions of Argentinian and Israeli descent.
Travelling to Dublin, he participated in the International Exhibition of Arts and Manufactures in 1865, winning a bronze medal.
The organization was established partly to address gender inequality within Uganda’s contemporary art sector.
The game introduces Isabelle, a secretary at the town hall who has been described as a "fan-favorite" and a mascot of the Animal Crossing series.
As the first entu in six centuries, serving as the "human wife" of the moon-god Sin, Ennigaldi held large religious and political power.
In the Word Watch of April 1997, The Atlantic Monthly defined guerrilla librarianship as “the use of surreptitious measures by librarians determined to resist the large-scale 'deaccessioning' of rarely used books: 'A branch librarian ...
David Christensen is an Alberta film director and producer who since October 2007 has been an executive producer with the National Film Board of Canada (NFB) at its Northwest Centre, based in Edmonton.
He also worked as a programmer for the Hong Kong International Film Festival (HKIFF) since 1983, curating the Hong Kong Cinema Retrospective section.
Characters Introduced in Animal Forest and Animal Crossing Animal Forest (どうぶつの森, Dōbutsu no Mori) was released for the Nintendo 64 in 2001 exclusively in Japan.
In these positions, Umerova played a key role in promoting Uzbek historical and contemporary art internationally..
Curatorial work Beat Nation: Art Hip Hop and Aboriginal Culture Willard curated the exhibition project Beat Nation, which started as an online project for grunt gallery.
2013 – 2014 “Functions and Functionality of Participatory Art,” a series of lectures, BUKU (Bureau of Cultural Translations) Leipzig, Germany; GeoAIR Tbilisi, Georgia.
Ghalia Garelnabi Babiker (Arabic: غالية جار النبي) is an archaeologist and museum director from Sudan.
He subsequently became a physics teacher at PJ Oliver High School in Grahamstown and completed a Postgraduate Certificate in Education at Rhodes University in 2008.
Five artists and a curator from Iran), 2018, Castello Di Moferrato, Casale Monferrato, Italy Good Morning...
She graduated in June 1898, making her the third woman at that university to obtain a doctoral degree (the first was physician Aletta Jacobs in 1876).
In 1955, she moved to London for two years while her daughter, Kazuko Kawakita, studied there, and was popularly known as “Madame Kawakita”.
Denied the chance to repurchase his old land, he bought a new property in May 1869 at the North West Arm for $4,800.
Her first ambition had been to paint but after she heard a Japanese Haiku she started to write poetry.
She worked as a script supervisor on a number of projects, including the feature films A Christmas Star in 2015 and The Courier in 2019, and assistant produced the 2016 short film Portrait.
Through conceptual art, she denounces the academy, exposing the frustrations of Mariela Porras' place as a woman scientist who thinks and feels, and speaks for women as bodies-objects of study, by denouncing the dissonance between the bodies that produce the science and the bodies that receive it.
His title is rendered in Latin as "curator domus rerum Areobindi" (caretaker of the house of Areobindus).
The inscription is written in the Greek language, mentioning the glorious memory of Baduarius and Theodora.
The Legacies of Jean-Luc Godard (Co-edited with Douglas Morrey, U of Warwick, UK, and Nicole Cote, U of Sherbrooke.
In early 2009, a boy came to live with Aki Ra and Hourt who had lost an arm and most of a hand to a cluster munition.
In April 2023, Fowle was appointed the Director of the Arts Program at the Hearthland Foundation, a philanthropic organization founded by Kate Capshaw and Steven Spielberg.
Contributions 1931 Marion Isabel Newbigin, Julian Huxley, Trevor Samuel Muffitt, Ernst Bernhard Almquist, Richard Elmhirst Biological Foundations in Education: a textbook for teacher training.
Peleg was co-curator of Manifesta 7 (Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol, 2008) and curator of the film program at the 10th Shanghai Biennale (2014).
Theischinger has held research positions with the Australian Museum and the Smithsonian Institution and he has published extensively on dragonflies, stoneflies, alderflies and crane flies.
(The venom is an anticoagulant, causing the person to bleed to death.) In 1962, Perkins returned to the St.
She is Associate Professor and Chair of the Department of Art History at the University of Hong Kong, where she also serves as Associate Dean of Global.
In their 2015 book dedication to him, Steven Loft and Kerry Swanson describe Maskêgon-Iskwêw as "one of the foremost thinkers and practitioners of Aboriginal new media art." An archive of Maskêgon-Iskwêw's work is maintained by grunt gallery.
It is both a shop and a reading room and specialises in works relating to urbanism in western Asia and northern Africa.
Sources Martindale, John R.; Jones, A.H.M.; Morris, John (1992), The Prosopography of the Later Roman Empire - Volume III, AD 527–641, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 0-521-20160-8 == References ==
Film and Television Institute of India Though he got some practical training in branches of film making from film makers of Bombay, particularly Mehboob Khan, Bimal Roy and Hrishikesh Mukherjee, he realised that he did not have the ideal qualities to become a filmmaker himself.
By December that year she was Deputy Director of NCAM; then, by 2024 Garelnabi was Director of NCAM.
In addition, she collaborated with the Spanish museum Museari in their mapping of queer artists from Costa Rica for the annual Museari Queer Art exhibition in 2021 and 2022, which included Costa Rican artists Andy Retana, Sussy Vargas Alvarado, Osvaldo Sequeira and Man Yu.
She originated the weekly "Films at Noon" series and directed film programs coordinated with major museum exhibits such "The Family of Man".
She has specialized in African-related movies since 1985, and has worked internationally as a film and television programme consultant and writer.
Her interest in curating Aboriginal art and work with Indigenous artists is at the forefront of her research.
Insects, mammals, amphibians, mollusks, and one plant (an Argentinian cactus), as well as a bridge in Panama and the Wetmore Glacier in the Antarctic, have also been named after him.
As advised by Jean Bhownagary of Films Division of India, he appeared for an interview at the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII), was selected and joined the institute in March 1961 in the position of research assistant.
Garelnabi has commented to The Guardian on how gender diversity in archaeology in Sudan has increased in her lifetime: during her studies there were three women on the course, but in 2022 there were 20.
Tui Raven, Yamaji Nyungar from Western Australia and the creator of the Australian Guidelines for First Nations Collection Description a joint project between AIATSIS, ALIA, CAUL, CAVAL and NSLA.
Based in central London's MayDay Rooms, dedicated to 'history from below', the June Givanni Pan African Cinema Archive ranges from rare videos and audio interviews to film and festival posters, screenplays and transcripts, snapshots and stills.
Barakat founded in 1997 the Ziryab Gallery and Cafe in Ramallah, where he also worked as an art curator.
As a film journalist, he has written film reviews and features articles and conducted hundreds of interviews with celebrities.
Most institutions were already providing support to distance education students, faculty, and staff.
The films featured contextualized afrofuturist ideas through contemporary experimental films created by Black filmmakers.
She has also face accusations that she, and her predecessor at the National Museum of Sudan, have been involved in illicit antiquities trading.
Publications Igloliorte has co-edited several books concerning Indigenous art and circumpolar cultural heritage.
Career Martin was the Curator of Contemporary Canadian Aboriginal Art for the Canadian Museum of History.
Exhibitions curator An "exhibitions curator" is a person in charge of conceiving and organising exhibitions.
They were named a 40 under 40 Global Influencer by international art magazine, Apollo for the third time for their contributions.
or have accepted exhibit proposals from community members and trained them in curatorial skills to co-create exhibits.
After graduation she worked at the Museum of Omani Heritage, developing training programmes and working on their heritage craft programme.
He has also written for IndieWire and worked as a film program director for the Nantucket Film Festival.
Biography Theischinger, originally from Austria, worked as curator of invertebrates at the Oberösterreichisches Landmuseum in Linz before moving to Australia.
Al Qasimi has been involved with the Sharjah Biennial since 2003, co-curating its sixth edition at the age of 22.
He is best known for Black Radical Imagination, an international touring experimental film program he co-founded with Erin Christovale.
He has curated issues with major fashion labels and designers including Kim Jones, Giambattista Valli, Rodarte, Delfina Delettrez Fendi, Thom Browne, Alessandro Michele, Eckhaus Latta, and Simone Rocha, amongst others.
Akermark studied art at the Teckniska Skolan in Stockholm and at the Slttjdfbreningen in Gothenburg, with further studies in art and languages in France, Belgium, and England.
Throughout her career, Rafiee has explored a variety of spaces and mediums in her artistic practice.
These include: The Xwi7xwa Library, which is a branch of the University of British Columbia Library, in Vancouver Canada.
She studied African visual and verbal art at the University of Bayreuth in Germany, where she obtained a master of arts degree focusing on curating and media in Africa.
Early life and education Sheikha Hoor Al Qasimi was born in 1980 into the ruling family of Sharjah, United Arab Emirates and is the daughter of Sheikh Sultan bin Mohammad Al-Qasimi.
He has said the team curates with an emphasis on discovery, with an effort to showcase films that have not sold for distribution yet.
In the 1980s he served in various positions in local government such as the head of Kabale District Service Commission.
In 2018, she curated an exhibition of 150 Indigenous women artists on billboards across Canada titled Resilience with Mentoring Artists for Women's Art in Winnipeg.
For the Nieuw Nederlandsch Biografisch Woordenboek she wrote biographies of famous Rotterdammers and she was co-author of Rotterdamsche Straatnamen, historischegelegd (1910).
They have curated major exhibitions nationally and internationally including the Cyprus Pavilion at the 56th Venice Biennale, Abraaj Group Art Prize at Art Dubai and Armory Focus: Middle East, North Africa and the Mediterranean at the Armory Show, New York.
She is an expert on the history of silversmithing, particularly in Oman, which has a historic tradition of women working as silversmiths, particularly in southern Oman in Dhofar.
She moved to London in 1916 or 1917, where she met Ezra Pound and attended “Ezuversity,” that is, Ezra Pound’s programme through which he educated young male and female poets on the art of reading and writing.
Between 2006 and 2009, Hillis was the vice-president of Benten Films, a boutique DVD label, founded by Andrew Grant.
In 2010, the Smithsonian Institution expressed interest in the idea, which led to the hiring of Sarah Stierch in July as Wikipedian in residence.
She was the chief curator of the Department of Culture of the Municipality of Montevideo from 1988 to 2009.
Simon regains his sanity and memories after being stripped of his powers by the being Golb in the series finale "Come Along with Me." Adventure Time: Fionna and Cake depicts Simon's difficulty adjusting to life after these events.
The project features five commissions from Indigenous women around Canada, including Willard, Christi Belcourt, Hupfield, Ursula Johnson, and Laakkuluk Williamson-Bathory.
From 2013 to 2018, she published a weekly column focused on contemporary art and its connection with the local and global sociopolitical reality in the Mexican newspaper El Financiero.
In 2018, she served as the artistic director of MTN Nyege Nyege, a major festival supported by the British Council,showcasing her commitment to advancing East African art on the world stage.
This wolf sanctuary has been instrumental in breeding wolves for eventual re-placement into their natural habitats.
She has conceptualized and directed three of the most relevant contemporary art foundations in Latin America: Colección Jumex, Fundación Alumnos 47 y Fundación Casa Wabi.
Since 2017, she has been a researcher at the Department of Politics and International Relations at the University of Oxford, focusing on cultural diplomacy and foreign cultural policy.
Perkins was the host of Zoo Parade, a television program that originated from the Lincoln Park Zoo on NBC station WNBQ-TV (now WMAQ-TV) when he was the director there.
Work Thawley was in a band when he lived in Australia and performing onstage marked his entry into fashion.
Hila Peleg (Hebrew: הילה פלג; born 1976 in Tel Aviv-Yafo, Israel) is an international curator and filmmaker and the Dean of HaMidrasha – Faculty of the Arts starting September 2023.
The project is a collaboration between Aude Mongiatti (British Museum), Fahmida Suleman (Royal Ontario Museum), Marcia Dorr and Al-Wardi.
References External links Interview: Māori strategies used as example to help in Niuean language revitalisation YouTube: APT3 / Tahiono Arts Collective : Moira Enetama & Al Tama Posimani: Tulana mahu (Shrine to abundance)
He earned his master's degree in Anthropology and Sociology at Carleton University in Ottawa, Ontario, and continued his studies at the University of Amsterdam in the Netherlands.
Early life and education Koon was born in Hong Kong and lived in Yuen Long in the New Territories before moving to the United Kingdom with her family at age six, growing up in Holloway, North London.
The entu also served as the manager of the considerable estates and wealth belonging to the temple complex of Ur.
The latter is a book of poems which won her "best international poet" at the World Festival of Venezuelan Poetry in the following year.
She was also the creator of the podcast Future Lab Africa , which seeks to foster the listener's imagination and creativity through a tour of the science and technology of the African continent existing outside of laboratories and spaces specific to innovation.
The neatly arranged objects of various different ages allowed Woolley to quickly identify the site as the remains of a museum.
When the Vietnamese army invaded Cambodia with the intention of toppling the Khmer Rouge political regime, he was taken into the custody of Vietnamese soldiers.
The publication was the culmination of fifty years of observation on the feeding, housing, reproduction and longevity of the animals at the Bronx Zoo, with references also drawn from zoos around the world.
She is also known for her documentary film work including her award winning feature film "A Crime Against Art" from 2007 and "Sign Space" from 2016.
Ayca was chosen because of the cross cultural exchange she encourages between Europe and South America.
"In Dialogue: Scott Benesiinaabandan's waabana’iwewin" in Public 54: Indigenous Art: New Media and the Digital, 2016.
Garage Museum of Contemporary Art (2013–2019) In 2013, Fowle was appointed the inaugural chief curator (and later artistic director) of the Garage Museum of Contemporary Art in Moscow.
As a group they had pledge to make art with naturally found materials, in order to divest from spending money on Israeli art supplies.
Five artists and a curator from Iran), 2018, Palazzo Ducale di Mantova, Mantova, Italy Iran Print -01, 2019, Meem Gallery, Dubai, UAE Solace of Lovers: Trost Der Liebenden, 2020–2021, Tyrolean State Museum, Innsbruck, Austria Bibliography By Rafiee Tarlan, Rafiee; Samimi Mofakham, Yashar (2018).
He has written for the South China Morning Post and Oriental Daily News, and served as the Asia bureau chief for The Hollywood Reporter.
up to 50 percent of the material could be located off-site.” In 1988, Proposition A was passed by voters to provide $109.5 million for the New Main Library to double existing space and would be applied to just the new building.
Since 2020, Hillis has been curating and hosting "Playtime with Hillis," a Zoom screening series of rare cinema.
After graduating, he became a staff writer for the South China Morning Post, and transitioned to Oriental Daily News as a political writer in 1997.
The award may be given for an activist or scholarly contribution in such areas as pay equity, affirmative action, legislative work and non-sexist education.
The activity inspired him to study fine art at the University of Calgary where he received his B.F.A.
She was curator of the Uruguayan submission to the Biennial of Cuenca in 2001, and in 2005 was curator of Lacy Duarte's exhibition at the Venice Biennale.
She curated numerous shows at grunt gallery, including a performance titled Taking Stick Cabaret, a collaboration with Lisa C.
Quiyuktchigaewin; Making Good, Winnipeg Art Gallery With Leah Decter, official denial (trade value in progress), travelling participatory art project, across Canada, 2011-2015.
2018 -“Dichotomy of the Local and Global,” speaker of the round the table devoted to the topic “Shifting Perspectives on Art from Local to Global.
She is a former director of Taoga Niue, the governmental department that oversees cultural activities and preservation.
One example is Poetic Clock, a machine that converts time into poetry, generating 86,400 different poems daily.
Career In 1980, he obtained a cum laude bachelor's degree in anthropology and a teaching degree in history from the University of Buenos Aires.
2007 - “South Caucasus Cultural Space: The Past and the Present,” speaker at the international meeting on “Literary Journal for Regional Peace,” Gudauri, Georgia.
530 BC founded a museum containing artifacts from past Mesopotamian civilizations, located about five hundred feet southeast of the ziggurat.
In addition to her artistic practice, she is also recognised as an international curator and researcher, with a primary focus on the role of women in Iran’s cultural and artistic history.
Griffith: American Film Master (1940), and became a regular book reviewer for the New York Herald Tribune.
He continued his tertiary education at Potchefstroom University (now North-West University), where he obtained a Bachelor of Science degree in Zoology and Biochemistry in 2004.
His collection of birds of paradise was one of the best collections ever to have left New Guinea, and they became the focus of an important series of papers by Crandall, which were mostly published in Zoologica.
In May 2016 he was preparing a book, The Citadel of Jerusalem: A Comprehensive Archaeological and Architectural Study, Monograph of the British Academy by Oxford University Press.
Between 1998 and 2014 she worked with the Science Museum Group as Head of Science Museum Arts Programme.
After the defeat, the Collector remained in seclusion until a human named Peter Tran of Avondale summoned him to Earth.
Crandall left New York on August 9, 1928, and returned on March 21, 1929, with 40 birds of paradise and around 200 other birds and several mammals.
The United States Supreme Court Building houses one of the most extensive federal public law libraries in the world, rivaled by the Law Library of Congress.
ISBN 9974-559-36-7 José Gurvich: Murales, esculturas y objetos, Fundación Gurvich, Montevideo, 2003.
Reuther was also a member of the Northern California Chapter of the Explorers Club, and served as its president from 1989 to 1995.
The same year she collaborated with British-Pakistani artist Shezad Dawood to create the Doha Modern Playground in Al Masrah Park.
Nadia Kamenevsky Nadia Kamenevsky (Amanda Ooms) is an American intelligence agent, posing as a Russian ballerina, whom Indiana Jones encounters in "Barcelona, May 1917" (later edited into the first half of Espionage Escapades).
Biography Petersen was born in Maniitsoq, a town in western Greenland that was then known as Sukkertoppen.
Political career Honychurch served as a senator in the House of Assembly of Dominica from 1975 to 1979, as a member of the Dominica Freedom Party (DFP).
The Collector was one of the four Elders who aided the Silver Surfer and Nova in helping Galactus to defeat the In-Betweener.
Though still nascently in use, its adoption applies to individuals with extensive industry expertise, acute familiarity with organizational structures and processes, deep domain level information mastery and information systems technical savvy.
A major objective of her academic praxis includes radically increasing Inuit participation in arts research and arts-based professional practice.
In Ninja Gaiden II (2008), a CIA agent named Sonia warns Ryu of the Greater Fiends, whose queen, Elizébet, attempts to steal an artifact called the Demon Statue, which is hidden in the Hayabusa ninja village and what she desires in order to resurrect the Archfiend Vazdah.
Martín's work inside the foundation was crucial for the dissemination of Mexican contemporary art on the global scene, as well as for the insertion of international art on the Mexican scene.
Awards and honors In 2019, she was awarded a Governor General's Awards in Visual and Media Arts for her Outstanding Contribution.
She participated in both Talanoa Forum initiatives led by artist Yuki Kihara—at the Venice Biennale (2020) and at Sydney's Powerhouse Museum (2023)—and contributed to international publications.
In Australia and New Zealand, the term also applies to a person who prepares a sports ground for use (especially a cricket ground).
Hawari was previously a research associate at the Khalili Research Centre, University of Oxford, and a curator at the British Museum in London.
With the American/New Zealand nutrition scientist Barbara Burlingame, he has edited several volumes including Sustainable Diets and Biodiversity Directions and solutions for policy, research and action Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO, Rome), 2012].
Brown Media Archives & Peabody Awards Collection at the University of Georgia, American Archive of Public Broadcasting External links Marlin Perkins at IMDb Marlin Perkins at Find a Grave
Werner Conradie (born 2 July 1982) is a South African herpetologist whose research focuses primarily on frogs (Anura) of southern Africa.
In 1925, Wetmore was appointed assistant secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, becoming secretary between 1945 and 1952.
Yucef Merhi (born February 8, 1977) is a Venezuelan artist, poet and computer programmer based in New York.
The ACRL's "Standards for Distance Learning Library Services" made it necessary to formalize the function, roles, and duties of academic librarians who support distance education students and led to the creation of the job title distance education librarian.
In that same year, she curated Mongolia's "first appearance" at the Venice Biennale, an international exhibition of contemporary art.
In 2012, he was awarded an honorary doctorate by the University of the West Indies and is an Honorary Research Fellow at the university.
He has shared his expertise by teaching photography at the Minshar art school and the Massa Jewish Agency, and has served as a curator for the Local Testimony exhibition in Israel from 2025.
A distance education librarian or distance learning librarian is a specialized academic librarian whose primary duties involve serving the information needs of distance education students, faculty, and staff.
Painting the Local in Export Art" in 18th Century Art Worlds: Global and Local Geographies, edited by D.
in Cultural Mediations at Carleton University's Institute for Comparative Studies in Literature, Art and Culture (ICSLAC) in 2013.
After leaving the magazine, Li co-founded the Hong Kong Film Critics Society in 1995, serving as its founding chairman.
Filmography 1972: Dream Sphinx Opera by Roger Jacoby 1974: Aged in Wood by Roger Jacoby 1974: Roslyn Romance by Bruce Baillie References External links Sally Dixon at Carnegie Museum of Art Archives
Biography Willard was born in 1977 and grew up in Armstrong, British Columbia, as well as back and forth to her father's Indian reserve.
She also served as Director of the Bush Foundation for Artist Fellowships from 1980 to 1996 and was a consultant for the Pew Charitable Trusts, The MacArthur Foundation, the Herb Foundation, and the Leeway Foundation.
In the case of short-term positions, it is important that the work to be done be well-planned in advance.
Awards In 2006, Stojanova received the Diploma and Silver Medal from the Bulgarian Ministry of Culture.
His return in Crusade was motivated by the director's desire to have the film hew closer to Raiders.
Agha made her feature film acting debut as Fatima, the titular character's sister, in Amrou Al-Kadhi's Layla, which opened at the 2024 Sundance Film Festival.
From 2004 to 2007 he was a lecturer at the University of Oxford, and from 2009 to 2012 a visiting professor at Birzeit University, having previously taught at Al-Quds University and Bethlehem University.
...While Givanni has always been at the forefront of the decolonisation of culture, engaging with the archive invites you to join her there." Awards In 2018, Givanni was awarded an honorary doctorate by SOAS, University of London.
He is developing an ecology and heritage center in the history buildings around Fort Shirley, an 18th-century garrison in Dominica's Cabrits National Park.
Stone is initially hesitant about joining the team despite providing some intel to Prince, but later joins when Steppenwolf kidnaps his father and several other S.T.A.R.
1961 The Doubleday Pictorial Library of Nature: earth, plants, animals (Doubleday, Garden City, N.Y.) with Julian Huxley.
Silversword is defeated, but Knockout throws him through a Navy helicopter, to prevent him from being treated as a lab animal as she was on Apokolips.
Supporters of the concept see it as a means for librarians to reinvigorate connections with the faculty/clinicians, as well as provide superior service by dint of informationists' biomedical training.
She served on the founding executive committee of the American Federation of Film Societies in 1954.
Such institutions can have multiple curators, each assigned to a specific collecting area (e.g., curator of ancient art, curator of prints and drawings, etc.) and often operating under the direction of a head curator.
Under her leadership, Uzbekistan's cultural heritage was presented in exhibitions such as "The Splendours of Uzbekistan's Oases" at the Louvre (2022–2023), and "On the Roads to Samarkand: Wonders of Silk and Gold" at the Arab World Institute in Paris (2022–2023).
Remengesau commended her "wealth of experience in public service [and] the preservation of Palau's heritage and history".
Rehuher-Marugg is a Palauan curator and politician who served as the State Minister of Palau from 2017 to 2021.
He attended Muyebe Sub Selected Grade School, Kinyasano Junior Primary School and Kigyezi High School.
She went on to higher education in La Paz where she studied at Academia Nacional de Bellas Artes Hernando Siles.
In March 2009, she founded Galerie De'Arts, a contemporary art gallery in Bangalore, India in the precinct, Barton Centre.
In June 2017, Rehuher-Marugg was elected to serve as the State Minister in the Cabinet of Thomas Remengesau Jr, replacing Billy Kuartei.
Margareta Akermark (1913–1983) was a Swedish-born film curator and librarian at the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
Heavily worked surfaces are back in much of the new painting.But it is elucidated in the introduction to a 1988 text on the subject, jointly written by its editors Andrew Milner, Philip J.
Since 2018, she has been curating art exhibitions in the United States including "Intersections" which she co-curated for the PST Art, an initiative by the J.
In 2008, she created the digital art dissemination platform African Digital Art , which showcases creative digital practices from the African continent, including graphic arts, animation, websites, films and design projects.
The site, which included a greenhouse, aviary, and aquarium, developed extensively due to Downs' rising stature and consistent government support.
In 2023 Redler-Hawes commissioned artist Alan Warburton to create a video essay titled The Wizard of AI, a twenty-minute, 99% AI-generated visual essay, exploring the impact AI has on the creative world.
Native Universe: Voices of Indian America: Native American Tribal Leaders, Writers, Scholars, and Story Tellers.
He served as the director's special assistant and deputy assistant director for cultural resources at the National Museum of the American Indian in New York City from 2000 to 2004.
She has been outspoken on the benefit television can bring to ensure survival of the Niuean language.
The event has been described as a "pioneering culture-building network." Her 2023 monograph, Veins of Influence, surveys early colonial photographs of Sri Lanka, analyzing their provenance and the networks of collectors that shaped their dissemination.
In a Canadian context, "Supporting Indigenous Language Revitalization: Strategies for Public Libraries" offers a guide for libraries to support Indigenous language revitalization, including collection development strategies.
CSHD's charter is to clear small villages, areas considered "low priority" for other international demining organizations, who are busy in "high priority" areas.
Mahmoud Hawari was born in Tarshiha, Israel, and received master's and PhD degrees from the University of London.
Career Ilia Yefimovich’s professional career in photojournalism began in the mid-2000s, focusing heavily on regions defined by geopolitical tension and conflict.
She was first appointed Arts Commissioner of Santa Monica, California for term June 25, 2019 to June 30, 2023.
Queer art Muñoz Brenes is co-coordinator of Curatorship at the Museum of Identity and Pride (MIO), the only museum in Central America with a LGBTIQ+ theme.
Career Amir’s student film Sneaker Freak mede waves on blogs in 2008, In 2011, he directed a short film The Mind of Delilah starring Thai Tyler and The Twilite Tone.
He established the archive from scratch by collecting films from all over India and the world and was promoted as director of the archive in 1982.
Kazungu’s curatorial practice focuses on feminist art histories, cultural storytelling, and expanding representation for women artists in African art institutions.
Perkins married his second wife, Carol Morse Cotsworth, in 1960; they remained married until his death.
Ryu is featured on official series merchandise as well as in the feature film DOA: Dead or Alive, and has made many crossover appearances in other games.
Peleg is the co-editor of the book “Documentary Across Disciplines”, The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA and London, HKW, Berlin, 2016 She was appointed Dean of HaMidrasha – Faculty of the Arts in September 2023 Notable curatorial projects Rough Cuts and Outtakes: Gordon Matta-Clark selected by Hila Peleg.
Robinah Nansubuga (born 1986) in Masaka, Uganda), is an independent art curator and filmmaker currently based in Kampala.
She has worked with artists such as Xu Bing, Jeffrey Gibson, Mary Mattingly, Mierle Laderman Ukeles, and Dread Scott.
James Maxwell McConnell Fisher (3 September 1912 – 25 September 1970) was a British author, editor, broadcaster, naturalist and ornithologist.
ISBN 9789997363794 Selected chapters, articles, and museum essays "'Capitalist Art' and the Invention of Tradition in Twentieth-Century Mongolia." Socialist and Post–Socialist Mongolia, Routledge, 2021.
In 2002, the Society of American Archivists published Guidelines for a Graduate Program in Archival Studies; it also promotes and disseminates a code of ethics, which has undergone several revisions since it was first adopted in 1980.
The ACRL acknowledges that distance education library service delivery methods will vary from institution to institution, but should be developed using the same professional standards and guidelines used by other academic libraries.
In the Prinsenland district of Rotterdam, a street was named after her on 21 April 1992 (Hermine Moquettestraat).
"Iris Barry, Writer and Cineaste, Forming Film Culture in London 1924-1926: the Adelphi, the Spectator, the Film Society, and the British Vogue".
In 1836, he published a book on the elements of drawing and created a series of lithographs, depicting scenes from Romanian history.
Biography Hila Peleg has curated numerous interdisciplinary projects and exhibitions for institutions including those for KW Institute for Contemporary Art (Berlin), Iniva - Institute of International Visual Arts (London), Haus der Kulturen der Welt (Berlin), and Centre Pompidou (Paris).
She has published widely on early colonial photography, modern and contemporary art, and craft, with a focus on cultural objects as agents of identity and historical narratives.
Biography Jepchumba's father was a diplomat, so from an early age she lived in several countries, including Kenya, South Africa, the United States and the United Kingdom, which served as inspiration for her work.
Nansubuga has curated numerous artistic projects both domestically and internationally, including events like the KLA ART 014 Festival and Framer Framed’s Simuda Nyuma.
After graduation, Tsiokos took a year off to do “his own film school” where he read on cinema studies, before going to graduate school at New York University.
The editor joined fashion title A Magazine Curated By as an online editor in 2009 and became editor-in-chief in 2010.
ISBN 978-973-33039-0-9 External links Muzeul Național de Istorie a României - IX, Cornelia Apostol (Ed.) 1997 "Începuturile învățământului românesc de arhitectură în Țările Române" @ Arhitectura
Work Garneau is one of only a few Métis artists making work that is both contemporary and influenced by Métis culture.
She has curated numerous exhibition projects for museums and cultural centers in her country and abroad.
Variable coloration by chromatophores Chromatophores are special pigment-containing cells that may change their size, but more often retain their original size but allow the pigment within them to become redistributed, thus varying the colour and pattern of the animal.
However some of these species undergo morphological color change over their lifetimes, growing to be a gold or white color pattern as an adult.
It concludes by urging readers to compare the book with Darwin's Descent of Man and with Wallace's Darwinism.
Evidently, alarm signals promote survival by allowing the receivers of the alarm to escape from the source of peril; this can evolve by kin selection, assuming the receivers are related to the signaller.
Some studies suggest that the northern shrike (Lanius excubitor) sings in winter often imitating small passerines that may be preyed upon when lured within reach.
The fungus obtains nutrition from carbohydrates on the egg's surface, without harming the egg itself.
The potential host (or prey) drives away its parasite (or predator) by mimicking it, the reverse of host–parasite aggressive mimicry.
These genes are the transcription factor Distalless (Dll) and the ligand (a signalling substance that binds a cell surface receptor) Hedgehog (Hh).
At least six species of horned lizards are able to squirt an aimed stream of blood from the corners of their eyes, up to 5 feet (1.5 m).
The insects have historically been eaten by Native Americans, who fried them or roasted them in hot ovens, stirring them until they were well browned.
They found that if larvae from an existing population of black mutants were raised at 20˚C, then all the final instar larvae were black; but if the larvae were instead raised at 28˚C, the final instar larvae ranged in color from black to green.
In many chromodorid nudibranchs, they take in distasteful and toxic chemicals emitted from sponges and store them in their repugnatorial glands (located around the mantle edge).
Researchers found that frequencies of Tf alleles of the Siberian reindeer differed from all the others.
Not all amphibians which display unkenreflexes possess aposematic coloring, nor do all amphibians display unkenreflex to the same degree.
He noted a case in the European nightjar, when a bird led him around the nest several times but made no attempt to lure him away.
This species, and others in its genus, have been extensively studied for understanding the genetic basis for polymorphism and Batesian mimicry.
"The palatability of the eggs of birds: illustrated by three seasons' experiments (1947, 1948 and 1950) on the food preferences of the Rat (Rattus norvegicus); and with special reference to the protective adaptations of eggs considered in relation to vulnerability".
Two different species of milkweed bug in the family Hemiptera, Lygaeus kalmii and large milkweed bug (Oncopeltus fasciatus), are colored with bright orange and black, and are said to be aposematically colored, in that they "advertise" their distastefulness by being brightly colored.
The ghillie suit was developed by Scottish gamekeepers for hunting deer, and adapted initially by a Scottish Highland regiment, the Lovat Scouts, for military use.
European grass snake (Natrix natrix), which secretes blood from the lining of the mouth while playing dead.
Volvation (from Latin volvere "roll", and the suffix -(a)tion; sometimes called enrolment or conglobation) is a defensive behavior of certain animals in which the animal rolls its body into a ball, presenting only the hardest parts of its integument (the animal's "armor") or its spines to predators.
In 2015–2016 studies, genome sequencing revealed a 240 kilobase haplotype encompassing the ALX1 gene that encodes a transcription factor affecting craniofacial development is strongly associated with beak shape diversity.
Such animals, like the tawny dragon lizard, may resemble rocks, sand, twigs, leaves, and even bird droppings (mimesis).
Nutritional rewards As long as natural enemies have some potential to be omnivorous, plants can provide food resources to encourage their retention and increase the impact they have on herbivore populations.
Intensity of display has been shown to decrease as the distance of the predator from the nest increases, perhaps representing the balancing of risk to the displaying parent and to the vulnerable young.
Animals may also use gaping as part of a courtship display, or to otherwise communicate with each other.
He continued to work from time to time after his retirement, for instance conducting a survey of crocodile nests on the Victoria Nile for the Uganda National Parks in 1972.
Alternatively, prey animals might be sufficiently gregarious to form clusters tight enough to enhance the warning signal.
A number of other aquatic molluscs have similar responses to attack, including the gastropod clade known as sea hares.
Camouflage can be achieved by a wide variety of methods, from disruptive coloration to transparency and some forms of mimicry, even in habitats like the open sea where there is no background.
It was Sheppard who found that the polymorphism is maintained by selective mating: each genotype preferentially mates with other morphs.
In his wartime lectures at Farnham Castle, he described nine categories of visual deception: merging, e.g.
There is also statistical evidence of change with time, based both on comparisons between sub-fossil and modern shells, and on resampling the same sites some decades apart, although the latter has more often found little change over the period (stasis).
Some species of caterpillar, such as those of hawkmoths (Sphingidae), have eyespots on their anterior abdominal segments.
Ultrasound avoidance in moths The idea that moths were able to hear the cries of echolocating bats dates back to the late 19th century.
Their calls differ based on signaller sex, threat type, habitat, and caller ontogenetic or lifetime predator experience.
Different pigmentation patterns provide appropriate camouflage throughout the seasons, as well as alter heat retention as temperatures change.
During the American Civil War, rifle units such as the Union army's 1st United States Sharpshooters wore green jackets while most Union units wore more conspicuous blue uniforms.
However, it currently remains unclear if any of the antitumor activity of squid ink can be obtained from oral consumption, and this is indicated as an area for future investigation.
Also, not only is polymorphism absent from these mimics, it is absent in the wasps also: these facts are presumably connected.
The females that change sex are often those who attain and preserve an initial size advantage early in life.
Assuming equal viability of the genotypes 1,209 heterozygotes would be expected, so the field results do not suggest any heterozygous advantage.
Species 1 therefore gains n-⁠a1n/a1+a2⁠ = ⁠a2n/a1+a2⁠ and species 2 similarly gains ⁠a1n/a1+a2⁠ in absolute numbers of individuals not killed.
While admiring of Poulton's detailed observations, Cope was critical of his support for Darwin, arguing that Poulton failed to explain how the variability that natural selection needs to work on actually arises.
Military prototypes Active camouflage in the form of counter-illumination has rarely been used for military purposes, but it has been prototyped in ship and aircraft camouflage from the Second World War onwards.
The offspring can inherit a dominant allele from one parent and a recessive allele from the other parent, making them heterozygous with a genotype of Bb.
Many tarantula species eject bristles from their abdomens, directing them toward potential attackers.
There are numerous possible mechanisms, of which the best known are: Batesian mimicry, where an edible species resembles a distasteful or dangerous species.
Hugh Bamford Cott (6 July 1900 – 18 April 1987) was a British zoologist, an authority on both natural and military camouflage, and a scientific illustrator and photographer.
The bamboo stem was found among fossil plant remains in the deposits of the Chirang River and was noted for its unusual surface markings and intact structure.
However, since polymorphisms may occur at low allele frequency, this is not a reliable way to tell new mutations from polymorphisms.
show that to establish adaptive self-deception, biologists must quantify the cost and benefit of ignoring one's true competitive ability.
Implemented most often in the face of an imminent attack by a predator, unkenreflex is characterized by the subject’s contortion or arching of its body to reveal previously hidden bright colors of the ventral side, tail, or inner limb; the subject remains immobile while in unkenreflex.
Besides experimental research, the comparative method can also be employed to investigate hypotheses such as those given by Curio above.
For ships Diffused lighting camouflage, in which visible light is projected on to the sides of ships to match the faint glow of the night sky, was trialled by Canada's National Research Council from 1941 onwards, and then by the Royal Navy, during the Second World War.
Hedgehog The Hedgehog (Hh) gene is the other element that has been functionally tested in the formation of eyespots.
In Müllerian mimicry, inedible species, usually within a taxonomic order, find it advantageous to resemble each other so as to reduce the sampling rate by predators who need to learn about the insects' inedibility.
Like Abbott Thayer, he used his artistry in his scientific work, including in Adaptive Coloration in Animals, to help argue the case he was making.
Since each parent must have a copy of the recessive allele in order to have an affected offspring, the parents are referred to as carriers of the condition.
Some termites (such as the soldiers of Globitermes sulphureus) release a sticky secretion by rupturing a gland near the skin of their neck, producing a tar effect in defense against ants.
Distraction displays Distraction displays, also known as deflection displays and diversionary displays, are behaviours that draw the attention of a predator away from an object, typically the nest or young.
Inspired by the evolution from genotype to genome to pan-genome, a concept of eventually exploring the relationship among pan-phenome, pan-genome, and pan-envirome was proposed in 2023.
He recorded that the Arctic fox, Arctic hare, ermine and ptarmigan change their colour seasonally, and gave "the obvious explanation", that it was for concealment.
If it resembled its surroundings like the members of the other class, it would be liable to a great deal of accidental or experimental tasting, and there would be nothing about it to impress the memory of an enemy, and thus to prevent the continual destruction of individuals.
There is currently not enough empirical data on the subject for there to be a consensus among experts.
Fossil description The bamboo stem shows rare preservation of structural features, including nodes, buds, and scars left by thorns.
Classification The family Dinidoridae is subdivided into two subfamilies: the Dinidorinae, and the Megymeninae, with the genus Megymenum in the latter.
One type produces sounds as acoustic aposematism, warning the bats that the moths are unpalatable, or at least performing as acoustic mimics of unpalatable moths.
Olfactory Some animals, in both terrestrial and aquatic environments, appear to camouflage their odor, which might otherwise attract predators.
Behavior around eggs Octopuses have also been observed squirting ink at snails or crabs approaching their eggs.
In reptiles and mammals Some reptiles, such as the sand lizard of Europe, have eyespots; in the sand lizard's case, there is a row of spots along the back, and a row on each side.
Later research has discovered that the viceroy is, in fact more toxic than the monarch and this resemblance should be considered as a case of Müllerian mimicry.
Cytochrome P450 oxidases (or P-450), a specific class of MFO, have been specifically connected to detoxification of plant secondary metabolic products.
In Europe, there are three morphs: the typical white morph (betularia or typica), and carbonaria, the melanic black morph.
Self-decoration is seen in some insects such as caddis fly larvae, the nymphs of the masked hunter bug, and occasionally also in octopuses.
(2006), Population Genetics and Microevolutionary Theory, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., ISBN 9-780-47140951-9
Some species of frogs are blinded by the quick changes in light, while nocturnal migratory birds may be disoriented, causing them to lose direction, tire out, or be captured by predators.
The adults of the various species now resemble each other so well that the species cannot be distinguished without close morphological observation and, in some cases, dissection or genetic analysis.
A good example is the Indian white admiral (Limenitis procris) which has five forms, each geographically separated from the other by large mountain ranges.
Camouflage Snow camouflage In his 1889 book Darwinism, the naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace considered the white coloration of Arctic animals.
Disrupting perception of motion Disrupting the attacker's perception of the target's motion was one of the intended purposes of dazzle camouflage as used on ships in the First World War, though its effectiveness is disputed.
A study in 2020 found that the frequency and duration of tonic immobility was affected by the sex of the wasp and the temperature of the environment, but not the color of the background the wasp was on.
essentially the same as one widely practised during the Great War for the concealment, not of caterpillars, but of caterpillar-tractors, [gun] battery positions, observation posts and so forth." == References ==
The relationship with some of these animals, such as sea anemones is mutualistic; in the case of aposematic animals like stinging sea anemones, the crabs are making use of the warning coloration of these partners to ward off predators.
The heterozygote has a permanent advantage (a higher fitness) so long as malaria exists; and it has existed as a human parasite for a long time.
Morphogenesis Butterfly eyespots are formed during embryogenesis as a result of a morphogenetic signalling centre or organizer, called the focus.
These ants use autothysis as a self-destructive defense to protect their territory, but they use it differently from termites, in that their primary uses for autothysis do not include blocking the tunnels of their territory from attackers, but more so for combat purposes during territorial battles.
First, there is their characteristic haplodiploid sex determination system, whereby all males are haploid, and all females diploid.
The ambiguous uses of camouflage—drawing attention when a fashionable look and doing the opposite in military use—fascinated Warhol.
Kerr was accompanied by John Samuel Budgett, who studied the frogs of the area and discovered a new genus.
However, some birds (inexperienced starlings and domestic chicks) also innately avoid conspicuously coloured objects, as demonstrated using mealworms painted yellow and black to resemble wasps, with dull green controls.
Where the background is brighter than is possible even with white pigment, counter-illumination in marine animals, such as squid, can use light to match the background.
Properties and chemistry Cephalopod ink contains a number of chemicals in a variety of different concentrations, depending on the species.
Aggressive mimicry Chrysopidae lacewing larvae decorate themselves with a mixture of materials including moulted cuticle and their own droppings, which appears to serve both to camouflage the larvae and to repel predators.
Direct production occurs through the presence of visible coloured cells known as pigment which are particles of coloured material such as freckles.
Ecology Beetle larvae of the chrysomelid subfamilies Criocerinae and Galerucinae retain their feces in piles on their backs, regularly adding material as feces slips off.
In the deep waters that the hatchetfish lives in, only blue light with a wavelength of 500 nanometres percolates down and needs to be reflected, so mirrors 125 nanometres apart provide good camouflage.
"Advanced camouflage system and method, Patent application 11/159,911, Publication US 2005/0276955 A1".
He noted that "[t]he whole proceeding is most human and purposeful", and that if a Stenorhynchus crab is cleaned, it will "immediately begin to clothe itself again with the same care and precision as before".
Females tend to convert more food into fat, while males convert more into muscle and expendable circulating energy reserves.
Days with snow cover halved between 1997 and 2007, and as few as 20 percent of the weasels had white winter coats.
They can completely regenerate the autotomically released or otherwise damaged skin tissue — regrowing hair follicles, skin, sweat glands, fur and cartilage with little or no scarring.
Mimicry Batesian Batesian mimicry, named for the 19th century naturalist Henry Walter Bates who first noted the effect in 1861, "provides numerous excellent examples of natural selection" at work.
In one study he found that of 123 species of bird, the kittiwake eggs scored highly with 8.2 out of 10.
It was classified as "adventitious protection" by Edward Bagnall Poulton in 1890, and as "adventitious concealing coloration" or "adventitious resemblance" by Hugh Bamford Cott in 1940, who compared it to the way Australian aborigines stalked waterfowl, covering their faces with water lily leaves.
Phylogeny A number of phylogenies, both molecular and morphological, have been produced for Darwin's finches.
The ants use this self-sacrifice to kill one or more enemies which entangle themselves in this sticky substance.
americanorum (now more commonly known as Bombus pensylvanicus), which is noxious to predators due to its sting.
The ink and opaline has been demonstrated to stimulate appetitive and ingestive behaviours, though opaline differs in the sense in that it inhibits ingestion.
Autotomy Some animals are capable of autotomy (self-amputation), shedding one of their own appendages in a last-ditch attempt to elude a predator's grasp or to distract the predator and thereby allow escape.
Some owlfly larvae, which are ambush predators, similarly self-decorate, hiding until prey comes within range.
Notch The Notch (N) gene expression precedes an upregulation of Dll in the cells that will become the center of the focus.
Up to five bands (very rarely more) run spirally around the shell, numbered 1 to 5 with the larger numbers further from the shell apex.
The decorator crabs attach plants, animals, small stones, or shell fragments to their carapaces to provide camouflage that matches the local environment.
The determining gene (or super-gene) for the inheritance of egg colour is believed to be carried on the W chromosome, which is directly transmitted in the female line.
The second question is more difficult, and can also be rephrased as being about the mechanisms that keep warning signals honest.
Other types of genetic marker, such as microsatellites, can have more than two alleles, and thus many different genotypes.
Over many generations, native species may evolve to be able to tolerate ingesting higher concentrations of toad toxins, or develop an innate ability to avoid consuming cane toad toxins.
Under crowded or "gregarious" conditions, the larvae have black bodies and yellow stripes along their bodies.
They are built on paired caudal processes (also called urogomphi) to the posterior end of the body; these processes move the shield over the body like an umbrella.
A genetic switch active in the cells of the embryo that will become the belly skin causes the Agouti gene to become active there, creating the countershading seen in adult mammals.
The body is short and does not extend as far as the supposed head, so that the insect is uninjured when it is seized.
Comparison of the observed paths with simulations of different pursuit strategies showed that these predatory birds used a motion camouflage path consistent with CATD.
Beetles Meloidae (blister beetles) – their haemolymph contains cantharidin that they sequester from plants on which they feed.
Eyespot markings may play a role in intraspecies communication or courtship; a well-known example is the eyespots on a peacock's display feathers.
Underwater camouflage is the set of methods of achieving crypsis—avoidance of observation—that allows otherwise visible aquatic organisms to remain unnoticed by other organisms such as predators or prey.
Outline obliteration from above Rowland (2009) identified an additional mechanism of countershading not previously analysed, namely that a round body such as a cylinder illuminated and seen from above appears to have dark sides.
Centipedes' last segments often mimic their heads by having a similar coloration and having the ultimate legs mimicking the antennae; this is thought to prevent predators from telling apart their heads, which have forcipules, from their arguably defenseless last trunk segments.
One example are trees growing in the woods developing long straight trunks, with branching crowns high in the canopy, while the same species growing alone in the open develops a spreading form, branching much lower to the ground.
In some cases, the variation in larval type is a 'plastic' trait in that it is environmentally mediated.
Kerr again influenced British camouflage in the Second World War, this time through his pupil Hugh B.
Another example is harbor seals eating juvenile salmon that moved down a river lit by nearby artificial lighting.
The active strategy was described as a "phantom echo" that might therefore represent "auditory crypsis" with alternative theories about interfering with the bats' echolocation ("jamming").
The results were intensely controversial, and from 2001 Michael Majerus carefully repeated the experiment.
When light falls from above on a uniformly coloured three-dimensional object such as a sphere, it makes the upper side appear lighter and the underside darker, grading from one to the other.
Evolutionary function Signalling One way that fish coloration can be categorized is into "static" or "dynamic" coloration/displays.
If predators switch between host plants that provide toxins and plants that do not, depending on the abundance of larvae on each type, then automimicry of toxic larvae by non-toxic larvae may be maintained in a balanced polymorphism.
Fourth level deception involves recognition of the other animal's beliefs, as when a chimpanzee tactically misleads other chimpanzees to prevent their discovering a food source.
Applications An example of the usage of SSLPs (microsatellites) is seen in a study by Rosenberg et al., where SSLPs were used to cluster different continental populations of human beings.
Another example of physiological color change is in the body and the eyes of guppy juveniles and Nile tilapia.
dardanus population on Pemba Island, Tanzania functions to avoid detection from a mate-searching male.
Significance The fossil represents the first known evidence that thorny bamboo existed in Asia during the Ice Age.
It is caused by a contraction of muscles around a large gland that leads to the breaking of the gland wall.
However, once model and mimic have become closely similar, some degree of mutual protection becomes likely.
In Lepidoptera, sexual dimorphism is widespread and almost completely determined by genetic determination.
Once amplified, polymorphisms and mutations in the sequence can be detected by DNA sequencing, either directly or after screening for variation with a method such as single strand conformation polymorphism analysis.
In the study on 2061 cattle in 14 herds over 4 years, 683 were given eye markings, 543 were painted with crosses, and 835 were unpainted.
Spectacular examples occur in the hairstreak butterflies; when perching on a twig or flower, they commonly do so upside down and shift their rear wings repeatedly, causing antenna-like movements of the "tails" on their wings.
Acoustic sensory receptors in noctuid moths are mechanoreceptors located in a chamber formed by the wall of the abdomen and the tympanic membrane, and they are most sensitive to lower frequencies of ultrasound (between 20 and 30 kHz.).
Besides the directional selection favouring camouflaged individuals, visually searching predators might cause apostatic selection.
Hiding strategy The spotty bobtail squid releases ropes of ink longer than itself and hides among them, possibly to be confused with floating seagrass leaves.
Legacy The Zoology Building of the University of Glasgow was renamed the Graham Kerr Building in his name.
Pouyannian In Pouyannian mimicry, named after the French lawyer and amateur botanist Maurice-Alexandre Pouyanne, flowers mimic a male pollinator's potential female mate, visually or with other stimuli.
False head Many insects have filamentous "tails" at the ends of their wings and patterns of markings on the wings themselves.
Further, it grades into other means of protection including "the borrowing of protection from aposematic partners" and the use of "fortified hiding-places" and burrows.
Domatia Certain tropical plants host colonies of ants in their hollow domatia and provide the ants with nutrition delivered from nectaries or food bodies.
When the mimics continue to outnumber the model there is also a stronger selective advantage for the predator to distinguish mimic from model.
Zoology Kerr interrupted his medical studies to join an Argentinian expedition to study the natural history of the Pilcomayo River.
Heterophylly Heterophylly is the presence of two or more different forms of leaves within an individual.
Cott compares the way Australian aborigines once used water lily leaves over their faces to swim towards waterfowl until they were close enough to catch them by the legs.
A classic example is the ABO blood group system in humans, where both the A and B alleles are expressed when they are present.
The first is the release of large amounts of ink into the water by the cephalopod in order to create a dark, diffuse cloud (much like a smoke screen) that can obscure the predator's view, allowing the cephalopod to make a rapid retreat by jetting away.
Whatever the mechanism, palatability may vary with age, sex, or how recently they used their supply of toxin.
Peppered moth The peppered moth, Biston betularia, is justly famous as an example of a population responding in a heritable way to a significant change in their ecological circumstances.
Eventually all the males will have the characteristics that the females are sexually selecting for, as only those males can reproduce.
It is unclear why these amputations occur, as oarfish have no documented natural predators, so it is unlikely to be a predation response.
In this second type of autotomy the lizard contracts a muscle to fracture a vertebra, rather than break the tail between two vertebrae.
Variation in PTC perception may reflect variation in dietary preferences throughout human evolution, and might correlate with susceptibility to diet-related diseases in modern populations.
Sheppard found that the polymorphism is maintained by selective mating: each genotype preferentially mates with other morphs.
He presented results showing that in a polluted urban wood with dark tree trunks, dark moths survived better than pale ones, causing industrial melanism, whereas in a clean rural wood with paler trunks, pale moths survived better than dark ones.
Cane toads are especially susceptible to native arthropods, which do not appear to experience any adverse effects from ingesting cane toad toxins.
Numerous arthropods, both insects and spiders, mimic ants, whether to avoid predation, to hunt ants, or (as in the large blue butterfly caterpillar) to trick the ants into feeding them.
For example, when he crossed a tall plant with a short plant, all the resulting plants would be tall.
Other researchers, generally those who support the selfish gene theory, question the authenticity of this "altruistic" behaviour.
This may be a form of deimatic behaviour, colloquially known as a startle display or threat display, as it enlarges the appearance of the animal, and for those with teeth it shows the threat that these represent.
For instance, genomic variations such as drought and heat resistance can be identified through phenomics to create more durable GMOs.
These SSLPs were extremely useful to the experiment because they do not affect the phenotypes of the individuals, thus being unaffected by natural selection.
Another beetle with a distinct horn-related sexual dimorphism is Allomyrina dichotoma, also known as the Japanese rhinoceros beetle.
One case is the golden orb weaver (Nephila clavipes), which spins a conspicuous golden coloured web in well-lit areas.
Both male and female puffins use gaping as a prominent part of their threat display, with "a range of intensities" based on the situation, and with puffins engaging in territorial gape contests, where they mirror each other until one gives up and leaves, or an actual fight occurs.
Attack protection Inking has been shown to protect species of squids against predatory fish attacks, as well during the capture phase as during the consummatory phase, due to visual and chemical effects of the ink released.
Cott used the example of the larva of the blotched emerald moth, which fixes a screen of fragments of leaves to its specially hooked bristles, to argue that military camouflage had used the same method, pointing out that the "device is ...
Natural enemies that make use of domatia are often said to serve as "bodyguards" for the plant on or in which they live.
In the latter type of moth, detailed analyses failed to support a "phantom echo" mechanism underlying sonar jamming, but instead pointed towards echo interference.
Subsequent research has provided evidence for only two functions of moth sounds, neither of which involve "auditory crypsis".
See also Animal suicide Anti-predator adaptation Apoptosis Autohaemorrhaging Exploding animal Self-destruct == References ==
However, a low rodent population in a given year may result in lower birth rates among foxes for that year, thereby resulting in a higher proportion of older, more experienced foxes in the population in the following year.
It was found that the moths' responses vary according to ultrasound intensity, diving towards the ground if the pulse was of a high amplitude or flying directly away from the sound source if the sound amplitude was low (if the sound was softer).
His proposers were Sir Isaac Bayley Balfour, James Cossar Ewart, Frederick Orpen Bower, and James Geikie.
SSLPs are repeated sequences over varying base lengths in intergenic regions of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).
Male harbour seals show specific vocalization and diving behaviours while demonstrating such behaviours for possible mates.
The term poecilogony was coined by Alfred Mathieu Giard to describe a polymorphism in larval development in marine invertebrates.
Modern use of cephalopod ink is generally limited to cooking, primarily in Japan and the Mediterranean, where it is used as a food colouring and flavouring, for example in pasta and sauces, and calamares en su tinta.
This research also demonstrated that the brain is necessary for the response, since decapitated crickets will fly but show no avoidance response behaviors.
Some species preferentially select stinging animals such as sea anemones or noxious plants, benefiting from aposematism as well as or instead of crypsis.
Wilkinson successfully promoted the false idea that Kerr's camouflage sought invisibility rather than image disruption.
Countershading, the use of different colors on upper and lower surfaces in graduating tones from a light belly to a darker back, is common in the sea and on land.
This stands out and distracts the observer's attention from the true form and contour of the body and appendages on which it is superimposed".
This pattern implies that the rattling "could serve as a general attention-getting device", which "is designed as a deimatic or startle display".
Anthocyanins (literally "flower blue") are water-soluble flavonoid pigments that appear red to blue, according to pH.
While mobbing has evolved independently in many species, it only tends to be present in those whose young are frequently preyed upon.
This hurts the overall fitness of the species, which is concerning considering the overall decrease in amphibian populations.
It was proof-read by Kerr, who commented on its publication 'It is by far the finest thing of the kind in existence'.
Polymorphism is one good way the opportunities get to be used; it has survival value, and the selection of modifier genes may reinforce the polymorphism.
On the other hand, the FDL complete their growth the following spring after they are taken into the ant nest.
Animal coloration; an account of the principal facts and theories relating to the colours and markings of animals.
The tubules contain a toxic saponin called holothurin, which is also present in the body wall in some sea cucumber species.
The availability of well-preserved remains is not a probable outcome as a consequence of decomposition and fossilization.
This may deceive predators in two ways: into attacking the tail rather than the more vulnerable head, and about the fish's likely direction of travel.
A classic pedigree for an autosomal dominant condition shows affected individuals in every generation.
In humans, females inherit two X chromosomes, one from each parent, while males inherit an X chromosome from their mother and a Y chromosome from their father.
Sea hares are gastropods without hard shells, using their specialized ink as their main defensive mechanism instead.
Snipers of many armies have since then adopted the ghillie suit for the effective concealment that it affords.
The slow-developing larvae do not grow much during the first year, but grow rapidly during the early part of the second summer and remain a second winter within the ant colonies.
XPD refers to "xeroderma pigmentosum group D" and is involved in a DNA repair mechanism used during DNA replication.
To date, this life history trait is only known in a small number of polychaete taxa, as well as some sacoglossan mollusks.
Mimicry of distasteful members of the same species Automimicry was first reported by the ecologist Lincoln Brower and colleagues, who found that monarch butterflies reared on cabbage were palatable to blue jays.
The aphid forms a large ball-shaped plant-made nest, called the gall, in which hundreds of aphids are living as a colony.
One habitat is rocky, sea-side cliffs, where the plants develop to be bushy with broad leaves and expanded inflorescences; the other is among sand dunes where the plants develop to lie prostrate with narrow leaves and compact inflorescences.
A series of polyphenisms determines whether larvae develop into queens, workers, and, in some cases soldiers.
Moreover, snails disperse more slowly than many other animals, so the most suitable genes may be locally absent.
In his book The Colours of Animals (1890), Edward Bagnall Poulton classified protective animal coloration into types such as warning colours and protective mimicry.
The selective breeding of crop plants often involves selection against the plant's intrinsic resistance strategies.
Environmental polymorphism Environmental polymorphism, where genetic heritability plays no role, is often termed polyphenism.
The goal was to enable a radar-equipped, sea-search aircraft to approach a surfaced submarine to within 30 seconds from arrival before being seen, to enable the aircraft to drop its depth charges before the submarine could dive.
Old workers of Neocapritermes taracua develop blue spots on their abdomens that are filled with copper-containing proteins (blue laccase).
This behavior is named after the fire-bellied toad (German: Unke; combining form: Unken-) which exhibits this reflex.
The luminescent bacterium is often Aliivibrio fischeri, as for example in the Hawaiian bobtail squid.
Kettlewell experimented on peppered moth evolution, showing that the species had adapted as pollution changed the environment; this provided compelling evidence of Darwinian evolution.
Variance in the length of SSLPs can be used to understand genetic variation between two individuals in a certain species.
However, as food supply begins to overwhelm the predator's ability to consume and process it, consumption levels off.
He included self decoration under the heading "Adventitious Protection", quoting Bateson's account of decorator crabs.
The foureye butterflyfish gets its name from a large and conspicuous eyespot on each side of the body near the tail.
In either case, the variation in larval type generally involves the production of larvae that differ in feeding mode and/or developmental time.
Thirteen species have been found to expel blood from the mouth and nostrils while also fully flooding both eyes with blood.
But he lacked an explanation either for genetic variation or for heredity, both essential to the theory.
An example would be the robber fly Mallophora bomboides, which is a Batesian mimic of its bumblebee model and prey, B.
Invasive plants such as the honeysuckle can thrive by altering their morphology in response to changes in the environment, which gives them a competitive advantage.
Vertebrates including several species of frog put on warning displays; some of these species have poison glands.
As levels of toxin vary depending on diet, some individuals are more toxic than the rest, which profit from the toxicity of those individuals, just as hoverflies benefit from mimicking well-defended wasps.
Those selected for longer death-feigning durations are at a selective advantage to those at shorter durations when a predator is introduced.
The shield is also a problem for the larva when it has the opposite effect: its chemistry attracts predators instead of repelling them.
In contrast, schematochromes (structural colors) are colors created by light reflections from a colorless surface and refractions by tissues.
Genotype contributes to phenotype, the observable traits and characteristics in an individual or organism.
In a frog widespread in Turkey and the Caucasus, Rana macrocnemis, the proportion of frogs with the stripe increases with the altitude in mountains of the Lesser Caucasus, but not in the Greater Caucasus.
Polymorphic and/or mimetic females occur in the case of some taxa in the Papilionidae primarily to obtain a level of protection not available to the male of their species.
Since the host birds do not eat snails, the sporocyst has another strategy to reach its host's intestine.
An important element of the masting strategy is synchrony in production, which is most effective when it is staggered.
Industrial melanism Between 1953 and 1956, the geneticist Bernard Kettlewell experimented on peppered moth evolution.
Some potential prey are unpalatable to bats, and produce an ultrasonic aposematic signal, the auditory equivalent of warning coloration.
Poulton's 1890 book, The Colours of Animals, written during Darwinism's lowest ebb, used all the forms of coloration to argue the case for natural selection.
Orthoptera Bushhoppers, such as Dictyophorus spumans, Phymateus viridipes and Phymateus leprosus – their haemolymph contains cardiac glycosides, sequestered from milkweed on which they feed.
Classification of induced genes Not all up-regulated genes in induced defences are directly involved in the production of toxins.
Diet and impact on ink The diet of sea hares enables them to gain the chemicals present in their ink and determine the color of their ink.
Self-decoration Self-decoration is employed by animals in different groups, including decorator crabs, which attach materials from their environment, as well as living organisms, to camouflage themselves.
They too are unpalatable, in the sense of being difficult to eat: their body is covered with setae (like carpet pile) and is armoured; they are sometimes described as being 'non-food'.
The Meiacanthus atrodorsalis and the Plagiotremus laudandus, both venomous, resemble each other and the Meiacanthus oualanensis and the Plagiotremus laudandus flavus, also both venomous, resemble each other.
The same study estimates that the Decim species group split from the common ancestor of the Decula plus Cassini species groups around 4 million years ago (Mya).
When the eggs hatch, some of the fungus remains on the stinkbug nymphs, but it is shed when they molt.
The question is, how can the differences between social wasp mimics and bumblebee mimics be explained?
In birds, the muscles that depress the lower mandible are usually weak, but certain birds have well-developed digastric muscles that aid in gaping actions.
If so, then automimics may simply be unlucky enough not to have gathered enough toxins from their environment.
Aphids A gall forming social aphid Nipponaphis monzeni is known for performing a spectacular self-sacrificing gall repairing behavior, which is regarded as a sort of autothysis.
Overview There is a strong evolutionary pressure for prey animals to avoid predators through camouflage, and for predators to be able to detect camouflaged prey.
Franz Boas found that cephalic index was to some degree dependent on where a child was born, independent of the child's genetic or cultural heritage.
Costs of mobbing behavior include the risk of engaging with predators, as well as energy expended in the process.
Kerr's aim was to make ships difficult to spot and fool range finders by disrupting their outlines, or in his own words "to destroy completely the continuity of outlines by splashes of white", to make ships harder to hit with gunfire at long range.
They created decoy homes and lined fake runways with flares, which were meant to help protect real towns from night raids.
Polyphenism in Lepidoptera is commonly seen in the form of seasonal morphs, especially in the butterfly families of Nymphalidae and Pieridae.
Tarantulas from the genera Avicularia, Pachistopelma and Iridopelma possess Type II hairs (Hoover, 1997).
When feeding on innocuous plants, they are harmless and nutritious, but a bird that has sampled a toxic specimen even once is unlikely to risk tasting harmless specimens with the same aposematic coloration.
A 1981 experiment confirmed the expected correlation between deceptiveness and survival in butterflies.
Studies tried to extrapolate the result of Hh pathway involvement by looking for the expression of Ci in Bicyclus anynana.
Lamellar ichthyosis, also called "fish scale disease", is an inherited condition in which one symptom is excess production of melanin.
All three have different genotypes but the first two have the same phenotype (purple) as distinct from the third (white).
Some animals change color in changing environments seasonally, as in ermine and snowshoe hare, or far more rapidly with chromatophores in their integuments, as in chameleon and cephalopods such as squid.
All genetic polymorphisms start out as a mutation, but only if they are germline and are not lethal can they spread into a population.
Predator-induced Predator-induced polyphenisms allow the species to develop in a more reproductively-successful way in a predator's absence, but to otherwise assume a more defensible morphology.
Autothysis (from the Greek roots autos- αὐτός "self" and thysia θυσία "sacrifice") or suicidal altruism is the process where an animal destroys itself via an internal rupturing or explosion of an organ which ruptures the skin.
It can also contain, among others, tyrosinase, dopamine, and L-DOPA, as well as small amounts of free amino acids, including taurine, aspartic acid, glutamic acid, alanine, and lysine.
In addition to chemical defenses, herbivory can induce physical defenses, such as longer thorns, or indirect defenses, such as rewards for symbiotic ants.
Another possible function of the fecal shield may include protection of the larva from environmental conditions such as ultraviolet radiation, desiccation, wind, and rain.
Another version similar to the one kept at the Philadelphia Museum of Art is part of the National Gallery of Victoria's modern art collection.
This movement, together with their appearance, causes the 'tails' to bear the strongest likeness to the antennae of a butterfly; the real antennae being held [downwards] so as not to attract attention.
Examples of species possessing this ability are cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidus), eastern chipmunks (Tamias striatus), and degu (Octodon degus).
Computer simulations have suggested the melanin deployed by cuttlefish may be particularly effective against the scent receptors of sharks, overwhelming the fishes' narrow but extremely intense scent range to deter them from predation.
Sherratt observes that the packaging of British supermarket own brands of potato crisps are consistently colour-coded red for the ready-salted variety, green for salt and vinegar, and blue for cheese and onion, across the major chains Sainsbury's, Tesco, Asda, and Waitrose.
Water from the respiratory tree is forced into these tubules causing a rapid expansion and they elongate by up to 20 times their original length.
Unkenreflex – interchangeably referred to as unken reflex (Unke is the German word for fire-bellied toads) – is a defensive posture adopted by several branches of the amphibian class, including salamanders, toads, and certain species of frogs.
In male green frogs, artificial light causes a decrease in mate calls and continued to move around instead of waiting for a potential mate to arrive.
The ink is released from the ink sacs (located between the gills) and is dispersed more widely when its release is accompanied by a jet of water from the siphon.
The paired respiratory trees and cloaca also remain (although they may be expelled in other species) The introvert changes from being firm and opaque to being soft and translucent.
He held the seat until the university constituencies were abolished for the 1950 general election, serving for a time as Chairman of the Parliamentary and Scientific Committee.
An individual homozygous for the recessive sickle hemoglobin, HgbS, has a short expectancy of life, whereas the life expectancy of the standard hemoglobin (HgbA) homozygote as well as heterozygote is normal (though heterozygote individuals will suffer periodic problems).
For example, the cottonmouth is so named because the white lining of its mouth is visible when gaping.
The second noteworthy event took place about 320,000 years ago with the split of the western Cassini group from its conspecifics to the east.
The transcription of defensive gene produces either proteins that are directly involved in plant defence such as proteinase inhibitors or are enzymes that are essential for the production of such proteins.
Animal coloration provided important early evidence for evolution by natural selection, at a time when little direct evidence was available.
His co-workers' first-hand accounts of his work in military camouflage can be found in the memoirs of two of his fellow camoufleurs: Julian Trevelyan and Roland Penrose.
In each species group, Decim, Cassini, and Decula, the signature of the glacial periods is manifested in three phylogeographic genetic subdivisions: one subgroup east of the Appalachians, one midwestern, and one on the far western edge of their range.
Nocturnality is a behavior in some non-human animals characterized by being active during the night and sleeping during the day.
The response is evoked by brief ultrasonic pulses in the 20 to 100 kHz range, pulses that fall within the range of bat ultrasonic echolocating calls (20–100 kHz).
The compounds used in autothysis, however, have also been explained to have some use in deterring vertebrate predators from eating the ants, because these products are inedible.
Blue-throated males are of intermediate size, and guard smaller territories containing only a single female.
When a worker ant's leg is grasped, it suicidally expels the contents of its hypertrophied submandibular glands, expelling corrosive irritant compounds and adhesives onto the predator.
Polygenic traits A polygenic trait is one whose phenotype is dependent on the additive effects of multiple genes.
Its tongue bears a conspicuous pink extension that resembles a worm and can be wriggled around; fish that try to eat the "worm" are themselves eaten by the turtle.
On average, males have larger hearts, slower heart rates, 10 percent higher red blood cell count, higher hemoglobin, hence greater oxygen-carrying capacity.
The strategy has been used by traditional human hunters, such as when Australian aborigines dressed in emu skins and adopted emu-like postures to hunt these birds.
Volvation is common for subterranean isopods, but only Caecosphaeroma burgundum is able to roll into a hermetic sphere without any outward projections.
The altered regulatory circuit redeploys early developmental signaling sources, like the canonical hedgehog (Hh) pathway, Distal-less (Dll), and engrailed (En), breaking the anterior/posterior compartmentalization restrictions through increased localized levels of Hh signaling.
In contrast, along with bradycardia, vertebrates in tonic immobility often reduce their breathing rate or protrude their tongue, further distinguishing this behavior from the freezing response.
The beak of Cactornis is somewhat like that of a starling, and that of the fourth subgroup, Camarhynchus, is slightly parrot-shaped.
Subsequently, Brower proposed the hypothesis of automimicry involving a polymorphism or spectrum of palatability: some individuals might be defended, and others palatable.
The coevolution that occurs between plants and herbivores that ultimately results in the speciation of both can be further explained by the Red Queen hypothesis.
On his return, he studied natural sciences at Christ's College, Cambridge, graduating with first class honours in 1896.
Similarly, some ground-nesting birds, including the European nightjar, select a resting position facing the sun.
The term was proposed by Ulrich Maschwitz and Eleonore Maschwitz in 1974 to describe the defensive mechanism of Colobopsis saundersi, a species of ant.
Dozens of soldiers come out, explode, mix, and plaster, and the gall breach is sealed up with the solidified body fluid.
Cott concluded that the effect was concealment "so long as the false configuration is recognized in preference to the real one".
In birds Male birds of some species, such as the peacock, have conspicuous eyespots in their plumage, used to signal their quality to sexually selecting females.
The chapter describes animals including the puss moth caterpillar which combines a threatening display with camouflage and the ability to eject an irritant fluid for protection.
The most famous transgenic approach is the introduction of genes from the bacterial species, Bacillus thuringiensis, into plants.
19th-century origins The development of military camouflage was driven by the increasing range and accuracy of infantry firearms in the 19th century.
There is experimental evidence that implies the female may also release pheromones that attract the male; this is an instance of chemical display behaviour that plays a large role in animal communication.
Studies of rear-wing damage support the hypothesis that this deflects attacks from the insect's head.
An experiment involving machine learning methods utilizing gene expressions measured from RNA sequencing found that they can contain enough signal to separate individuals in the context of phenotype prediction.
The cattle were always in mixed groups of marked and unmarked animals; it is not known whether marking all animals in a herd would provide effective protection.
Thayer's observation "Animals are painted by Nature, darkest on those parts which tend to be most lighted by the sky's light, and vice versa" is called Thayer's Law.
Mimicking optic flow of background Some animals mimic the optic flow of the background, so that the attacker does not appear to move when seen by the target.
His book Adaptive Coloration in Animals (1940), popular among serving soldiers, was the major textbook on camouflage in zoology of the twentieth century.
The second response to a predator is to release pseudomorphs ("false bodies"), smaller clouds of ink with a greater mucus content, which allows them to hold their shape for longer.
The simultaneous presence of pearl bodies, ant domatia and extrafloral nectaries, suggest a facultative plant-ant mutualism.
By the time the first edition was published, the development of Darwin's theory of natural selection was in progress.
Among animals, self-decoration is found in decorator crabs, some insects such as caddis flies and the masked hunter bug, and occasionally also in octopuses.
This is not the same as moving straight towards the target (classical pursuit): that results in visible sideways motion with a readily detectable difference in optic flow from the background.
In Mallotus japonicus extrafloral nectaries and pearl bodies function as a biotic defence, while a second line of defence is made up trichomes and pellucid dots containing toxic secondary metabolites.
Behaviors and their consequences are also phenotypes, since behaviors are observable characteristics.
Since this similarity in appearance is so obvious, salticid spiders can use display behaviours to communicate both with members of their own species and also with members of the ants that they mimic.
An uppercase letter is typically used to represent the dominant allele, and a lowercase letter is used to represent the recessive allele.
purpurata emit green-leaf volatiles attractive to foragers of the social wasps Vespula germanica and V.
Sir John Graham Kerr (18 September 1869 – 21 April 1957), known to his friends as Graham Kerr, was a British embryologist and Unionist Member of Parliament (MP).
When the same monkeys are then played recordings of leopard growls, their reactions confirm that they had anticipated the presence of a leopard.
Armadillos in the genus Tolypeutes (South American three-banded armadillos) are able to roll into a defensive ball, but the nine-banded armadillo and other species have too many plates to do so.
When the wasp eggs hatch, the larvae feed on the stinkbug eggs from within, killing the stinkbug eggs, after which the wasps hatch.
Inking behaviours Escape strategies Two distinct behaviors have been observed in inking cephalopods.
Aposematic signals are primarily visual, using bright colours and high-contrast patterns such as stripes.
According to trainer Ric O'Barry in the film The Cove, Kathy, the dolphin, suffocated herself before him.
Other cases of animals engaging in stress-related self-destructive behavior include birds engaging in feather-plucking, as well dogs and cats engaging in excessive licking.
At least eight families of flat-backed millipedes are known to practice true volvation; these are described as oniscoid (woodlouse-like).
This call was also heard during agonistic behavior interactions with conspecifics, and may serve additionally or alternatively as an alarm call to their mate.
For example, fungal symbionts of cigarette beetles (Lasioderma serricorne) use certain plant allelochemicals as their source of carbon, in addition to producing detoxification enzymes (esterases) to get rid of other toxins.
Stealthy movements One strategy is to minimise actual motion, as when predators such as tigers stalk prey by moving very slowly and stealthily.
The three main categories of coloration in his book Adaptive Coloration in Animals are concealment, disguise, and advertisement.
Other terms for the fecal shield noted in the literature include "larval clothing", "kotanhang" ("fecal appendage"), "faecal mask", "faecal pad", and "exuvio-faecal annex".
An example is a distraction display of feigned injury to get or divert attention; for example, a parent mockingbird feigning an injury to attract a predator away from its defenceless offspring.
However, according to laboratory studies conducted by Loxton in 1979, one type of mantis, Ephestiasula arnoena, shows both male and female counterparts performing overt and ritualized behaviour before mating.
It uses a Polaroid photograph of him, with the material of acrylic polymer paint and silk screen printing to produce a camouflage pattern over the face surrounded by black.
The Papuan big men of New Guinea staged elaborate feasts to show the extent of their influence and power.
As territorial markings Urticating hairs are not just thrown at an enemy as a first line defense, but are also used as an indication of territory.
However, when he self-fertilized the plants that resulted, about 1/4 of the second generation would be short.
The object of Warning Colours is to assist the education of enemies, enabling them to easily learn and remember the animals which are to be avoided.
See also Reproductive synchrony Selfish herd theory Semelparity Surplus killing Swarm behaviour § Plants Human wave attack == References ==
These secretions, along with the aposematic coloring common among the amphibians which display unkenreflex, serve as a warning to nearby predators that the amphibian may be poisonous.
See also Food bodies Elaiosome Gongylidia External links "Annals of Natural History" Gallery == References ==
Chemical component The ink and opaline glands produce ink and opaline respectively; these two substances are mixed in the cavity and expelled towards the predator.
When given no choice of partner in the laboratory, the two Cepaea species can form hybrids, which will backcross with the parental species, but the fertility is very low.
The implication was that survival was caused by camouflage against suitable backgrounds, where predators hunting by sight (insect-eating birds, such as the great tits used in the experiment) selectively caught and killed the less well-camouflaged moths.
Since rattlesnakes can barely hear the sound, it is unlikely to serve as any form of communication to other snakes of the same species.
In other cases, the larval type is genetically determined - a good example is the polychaete Streblospio benedicti, where some mothers release small planktotrophic eggs and other mothers release large lecithotrophic eggs.
Multi-shelled chitons also volvate, although evidence suggests that they do not use this behavior as an anti-predatory defense but rather as a form of locomotion.
Natural selection in favour of features that deflect predators' attacks is straightforward to explain: variants of patterns that more effectively deflect attack are favoured, since animals with ineffective variants are likely to be killed.
The number of eyespots in a peacock's train predicts his mating success; when a peacock's train is experimentally pruned, females lose interest.
The Neo-Lamarckian Cope criticised Poulton's support for Darwin but liked the book's many observations of animal coloration.
Mendelian inheritance Traits that are determined exclusively by genotype are typically inherited in a Mendelian pattern.
Invertebrates Over 200 species of invertebrates are capable of using autotomy as an avoidance or protective behaviour.
It turns out that many species of insects are toxic or distasteful when they have fed on plants that contain chemicals of particular classes, but not when they have fed on plants that lack those chemicals.
Cephalopod ink is a dark-coloured or luminous ink released into water by most species of cephalopod, usually as an escape mechanism.
The number of alleles an individual can have in a specific gene depends on the number of copies of each chromosome found in that species, also referred to as ploidy.
Stinging Honeybees use their stinger to deliver poisonous chemicals to their attacker, effectively both injuring the predator and killing the insect in the colony's defense.
Use by humans Cephalopod ink has, as its name suggests, been used in the past as ink for pens and quills; the Greek name for cuttlefish, and the taxonomic name of a cuttlefish genus, Sepia, is associated with the brown colour of cuttlefish ink (for more information, see sepia).
Types particular to species Not all urticating hair types are exhibited by each species of tarantula.
Visual Many animals have evolved so that they visually resemble their surroundings by using any of the many methods of natural camouflage that may match the color and texture of the surroundings (cryptic coloration) and/or break up the visual outline of the animal itself (disruptive coloration).
Self-shadowing makes an animal appear darker below than on top, grading from light to dark; countershading 'paints in' tones which are darkest on top, lightest below, making the countershaded animal nearly invisible against a suitable background.
He became interested in the relationship of bird colours with their role as warning colours, an idea that arose when he observed hornets attracted to some birds being skinned while ignoring others.
Polymorphisms are classified based on what happens at the level of the individual mutation in the DNA sequence (or RNA sequence in the case of RNA viruses), and what effect the mutation has on the phenotype (i.e.
Infected rodents show a reduction in their innate aversion to cat odors; while uninfected mice and rats will generally avoid areas marked with cat urine or with cat body odor, this avoidance is reduced or eliminated in infected animals.
As the ostrich group size increases, the frequency at which each individual raises its head to look for predators decreases.
Larvae of species that eat aphids decorate themselves with the waxy material produced by the aphids; larvae decorated like this are ignored by ants which farm the aphids, whereas the ants eject undecorated larvae, making this a wolf in sheep's clothing strategy of aggressive mimicry.
In detail, any of the several alleles will follow certain dynamics; When a certain allele is high in frequency (p → {\displaystyle \to } 1), it will decrease in frequency in the future and by that avoid from being fixated in the population.
Genotypes often have much flexibility in the modification and expression of phenotypes; in many organisms these phenotypes are very different under varying environmental conditions.
In zoology, automimicry, Browerian mimicry, or intraspecific mimicry, is a form of mimicry in which the same species of animal is imitated.
This affects the caterpillars as well as the moths, in spite of the caterpillars being monomorphic in appearance (they are twig mimics).
Countershading Top/bottom countershading is common in fish including sharks, marlin, and mackerel, and animals in other groups such as dolphins, turtles and penguins.
Teleost fishes Goldfish, trout, rudd, tench, brown bullhead, medaka, paradise fish, and topminnow have been reported to go limp when they are restrained on their backs.
In elaborate cases of mimicry, such as the African butterfly Papilio dardanus, female morphs mimic a range of distasteful models called Batesian mimicry, often in the same region.
Study of mimicry in plants broadened in the 21st century, with the discovery of Batesian mimicry in plants in 2003, and crypsis or leaf mimicry in 2014.
Classification and comparisons Batesian mimicry is a case of protective or defensive mimicry, where the mimic does best by avoiding confrontations with the signal receiver.
Within a forest of trees, the ones getting attacked send communication distress signals that alerts neighboring trees to alter their behavior (defense).
Suicidal altruism An unusual type of predator deterrence is observed in the Malaysian exploding ant.
The most distinct case of sexual dimorphism is that of adult females of many Psychidae species who have only vestigial wings, legs, and mouthparts as compared to the adult males who are strong fliers with well-developed wings and feathery antennae.
Kerr openly supported the controversial camouflage claims of American artist Abbott Handerson Thayer.
The particles have a density of 1.27 g cm−3, which may be due to the amount of metals that the ink has in its composition (4.7% in weight).
The existence of automimicry in the form of non-toxic mimics of toxic members of the same species (analogous to Batesian mimicry) poses two challenges to evolutionary theory: how can automimicry be maintained, and how can it evolve?
Many enzyme inhibitors in cereal grains and pulses, such as trypsin inhibitors prevalent in pulse crops, are denatured by cooking, making them digestible.
The most important differences between species are in the size and shape of their beaks, which are highly adapted to different food sources.
Termites Groups of termites whose soldiers have been found to use autothysis to defend their colonies include Serritermes serrifer, Dentispicotermes, Genuotermes, and Orthognathotermes.
A second hypothesis is that the stickleback distraction display arose from displaced foraging behavior and as such represents faux-foraging.
Close to the base of the supposed antennae an eye-like mark, in the most appropriate position, exists in many species.
In population genetics, a protected polymorphism is a mechanism that maintains multiple alleles at a certain locus.
Kerr was educated at the Royal High School, Edinburgh, and then studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh.
When enemies damage the gall, first-instar soldier nymphs erupt to discharge white body fluid, mix the secretion with their legs, and skillfully plaster it over the plant injury.
Another interesting dimorphism is for the bills of young finches, which are either "pink" or "yellow".
A variety of other wing patterns are determined by N and Dll patterns of expression in early development of the wing imaginal disc, suggesting that a single mechanism patterns multiple coloration structures of the wing.
The soldier's body fluid is full of numerous large globular cells that contain high levels of phenoloxidase and lipids, which play central roles in body fluid coagulation for the self-sacrificing gall repair.
Data is available from 1939 to the present day, acquired by the usual field method of capture-mark-release-recapture and by genetic analysis from breeding in captivity.
History In 1889, William Bateson observed in detail the way that decorator crabs fix materials on their backs.
Several species of the soldierless Apicotermitinae, for example those of the Grigiotermes and Ruptitermes genera, have workers that can also use autothysis.
Escape paths are often erratic, making it difficult for the predator to predict which way the prey will go next: for example, birds such as snipe, ptarmigan and black-headed gulls evade fast raptors such as peregrine falcons with zigzagging or jinking flight.
The Ice Age bamboo fossil from Manipur (ꯃꯅꯤꯄꯨꯔꯒꯤ ꯎꯟꯒꯤ ꯃꯇꯝꯒꯤ ꯋꯥ ꯄꯥꯝꯕꯤꯒꯤ ꯂꯤꯔꯕ ꯑꯔꯦꯝꯕ ꯁꯔꯨꯛ) is a 37,000-year-old fossil bamboo stem specimen discovered in the Imphal Valley of Manipur, India.
The bacterium Klebsiella aerogenes produces the volatile 2,3-butanediol, which modulates interactions between plants, pathogens, and insects.
Examples of apparent plants that produce generalized protections include long-living trees, shrubs, and perennial grasses.
The cost of induced defences to a plant can be quantified as the resource-based trade-off between resistance and fitness (allocation cost) or as the reduced fitness resulting from the interactions with other species or the environment (ecological cost).
Each species of cephalopod produces slightly differently coloured inks; generally, octopuses produce black ink, squid ink is blue-black, and cuttlefish ink is a shade of brown.
The common octopus similarly displays pale skin and dark eye rings with dilated pupils, but also curls its arms and stretches out the web between the arms as far as possible, and squirts out jets of water.
Thus, the process of breeding new cotton varieties has overlooked natural resistance traits in the pursuit of high-yielding varieties that can be protected by pesticides.
Penetrance is the proportion of individuals showing a specified genotype in their phenotype under a given set of environmental conditions.
In the other case, termed Batesian-Wallacian mimicry after Henry Walter Bates and Alfred Russel Wallace, the model is the prey species.
Additionally, secondary metabolic products can act as cues to identify a plant for feeding or oviposition (egg laying) by herbivores.
By using PCR and cluster analysis, Rosenberg was able to group individuals that had the same SSLPs .
Wallace noted that snow camouflage, especially plumage and pelage that changed with the seasons, suggested an obvious explanation as an adaptation for concealment.
All cephalopods, with the exception of the Nautilidae and the Cirrina (deep-sea octopuses), are able to release ink to confuse predators.
Such a mimicry complex is referred to as Batesian and is most commonly known by the mimicry by the limenitidine viceroy butterfly of the inedible danaine monarch.
He was President of the Royal Physical Society of Edinburgh from 1906 to 1909, and elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1909.
Physical properties Sepia officinalis ink forms a polydisperse suspension composed by spheric particles with a size between 80 and 150 nm (measured by TRPS and SEM).
The conspicuous colours and patterns of animals with strong defences such as toxins are advertised to predators, signalling honestly that the animal is not worth attacking.
The genotype is commonly mixed up with the phenotype which describes the result of both the genetic and the environmental factors giving the observed expression (e.g.
This is thought to be one of the most effective forms of defense that termites possess as the ruptured workers block the tunnels running into the nest and it causes a one-to-one exchange between attackers and defenders, meaning attacks have a high energy cost to predators.
Such changes in the transcription rates are essential in inducing a change in the level of defence upon herbivory attack.
Cells or tissues that offer food rewards to arthropods are commonplace in the plant world and are an important way of establishing symbiotic relationships.
On developing the photographs, he realized the bird had been there all along, perfectly camouflaged.
Examples include the monarch and the queen from the subfamily Danainae, which feed on milkweed species of varying toxicity.
Selection against the weed may occur either by manually killing the weed, or by separating its seeds from those of the crop by winnowing.
Many orchids, including the Ophrys bee orchids, deceive male insects into pseudocopulation in this way, using them to transfer pollen.
This combination of facts implies that the populations in these zones of overlap have converged to share honest warning signals.
Aposematic mammals in the families Mustelidae, Viverridae, and Herpestidae have independently evolved conspicuous black-and-white coloration, suggesting that Müllerian mimicry may be involved.
If the nest is on open terrain, the parent may perceive predators at a greater distance and be able to leave the nest and begin displaying before the predator is in sufficient proximity to locate the nest.
The mechanism is found in both vertebrates such as fishes and snakes, and insects such as hairstreak butterflies.
The Metropolitan Museum of Art describes the image: "Warhol appears as a haunting, disembodied mask.
Fish across all taxa vary greatly in their coloration through special mechanisms, mainly pigment cells called chromatophores.
These types of additive effects is also the explanation for the amount of variation in human eye color.
Trained dogs and meerkats, both scent-oriented predators, have been shown to have difficulty detecting puff adders, whose strategy of ambushing prey necessitates concealment from both predators and prey.
Three major functions of coloration were discovered in the second half of the 19th century, and subsequently used as evidence of selection: camouflage (protective coloration); mimicry, both Batesian and Müllerian; and aposematism.
Counter-illumination differs from countershading, also used by many marine animals, which uses pigments to darken the upper side of the body while the underside is as light as possible with pigment, namely white.
The strategy has been described by multiple zoologists as like the proverbial wolf in sheep's clothing, though no conscious deceptive intent is involved.
He was able to observe that if he crossed two true-breeding plants with distinct phenotypes, all the offspring would have the same phenotype.
External links Janus: Cott's papers Archives Hub: Cott's own copies of books, with personal annotations, at Cambridge University Museum of Zoology University of Glasgow Story: Hugh Bamford Cott Archived 14 May 2013 at the Wayback Machine
Apostatic selection, whereby a predator consumes a common morph whilst overlooking rarer morphs is possible and does occur.
They have adapted over time to feed mainly on seaweed and algae as without their specific diet they will be left without ink and fall prey to predators.
Penetrance can also be age-dependent, meaning signs or symptoms of disease are not visible until later in life.
A genetic (or balanced) polymorphism usually persists over many generations, maintained by two or more opposed and powerful selection pressures.
Type I (0.2–0.6 mm) Type II (0.5–1.5 mm) Type III (0.3–1.2 mm) Type IV (0.06–0.2 mm) Type V Type VI Type VII Each type of urticating hair is believed to target different enemies.
Many marine animals that float near the surface are highly transparent, giving them almost perfect camouflage.
It also appears possible that the predatory mite Euseius sojaensis uses the pearl bodies as an alternative food source.
On the contrary, when a given allele is low in frequency (p → {\displaystyle \to } 0) it will increase in frequency in the future, avoiding its extinction and maintaining polymorphism at the locus.
In ecology, crypsis is the ability of an animal or a plant to avoid observation or detection by other animals.
The review quotes examples including the twig larvae of the Brimstone moth and the "terrifying attitude" of the Puss moth caterpillar.
Each color is indicated by the three types of chromatophore cells: erythrophores, melanophores, and xanthophores.
Predators might innately fear unfamiliar forms (neophobia) long enough for them to become established, but this is likely to be only temporary.
The soldiers of the Neotropical termite family Serritermitidae have a defense strategy which involves front gland autothysis, with the body rupturing between the head and abdomen.
Where predators are initially startled but learn to eat the displaying prey, the display is classed as deimatic, and the prey is bluffing; where they continue to avoid the prey after tasting it, the display is taken as aposematic, meaning the prey is genuinely distasteful.
In wide-ranging species, the contributions of heredity and environment are not always certain, but their interplay can sometimes be determined by experiment.
Toad-experienced native frogs most likely use both visual and olfactory cues to detect and avoid the toxic species.
When it is visual, the term cryptic coloration, effectively a synonym for animal camouflage, is sometimes used, but many different methods of camouflage are employed in nature.
In a manner that is similar to the development of Drosophila fruit flies, Hh is expressed in all cells in the posterior compartment of the developing butterfly wing during the mid fifth instar of butterfly wing development.
These react with a secretion from the labial gland upon autothysis to form a mixture which is toxic to other termites.
Laboratory tests have shown that planigales learn to avoid cane toads after only one or two encounters.
Distal-less The Distal-less gene is present in almost all eyespot organizers, making it an ideal candidate to carry out major functions of eyespot formation.
Fish Arctic char Arctic char are notable for exhibiting numerous, seemingly distinct morphological variants or morphs throughout the range of the species.
Genetic polymorphism Genetic polymorphism occurs when the morphs are a result of genetic determination only.
Such good camouflage comes at the price of the weight of the ghillie suit and the attached materials; the suit is hot and uncomfortable to wear in hot weather, and it restricts mobility.
Preservation and paleoenvironment The fossil is notable for preserving delicate features such as thorn scars and buds, which rarely fossilize.
Their body structure allows them to bite and feed on the amphibians even when they are ingested by larger prey such as frogs.
Pirate perch (Aphredoderus sayanus) may exhibit chemical crypsis, making them undetectable to frogs and insects colonizing ponds.
These are the basal part of the tentacles, the attachment points of the introvert retractor muscles to the longitudinal muscles (there are 10 of these), and the junction of intestine and cloaca.
This unprofitability may consist of any defences that make the prey difficult to kill and eat, such as toxicity, venom, foul taste or smell, sharp spines, or aggressive nature.
As a Fellow of the Zoological Society of London, he undertook expeditions to Africa and the Amazon to collect specimens, mainly reptiles and amphibians.
Predator satiation (less commonly called predator saturation) is an anti-predator adaptation in which prey briefly occur at high population densities, reducing the probability of an individual organism being eaten.
Sea cucumbers (Holothuroidea) eject parts of the gut in order to scare and defend against potential predators such as crabs and fish.
It also includes the phenomenon of mimicry when mimetic morphs fly alongside non-mimetic morphs in a population of a particular species.
When predators are flooded with potential prey, they can consume only a certain amount, so by occurring at high densities prey benefit from a safety in numbers effect.
Politics and late life Kerr was elected as Unionist MP for the Combined Scottish Universities at a by-election in 1935 after the MP and novelist John Buchan resigned his seat when he was appointed as Governor General of Canada.
Data collected over 80 years from red-bellied black snakes and common tree snakes, shows that the body length of these toad-vulnerable species increases with the time since first exposure to the toxic toads; mouth gape size decreases correspondingly with increasing body length.
Ducks Tonic immobility has been observed in several species of ducks as an effective anti-predatory response.
Tonic immobility as a scientific tool has also been used with mice, gerbils, guinea pigs, rats, rabbits, and pigs.
gracilicorne raised in a laboratory without gut bacteria fail to grow, indicating that the bacteria are necessary for the insect's development.
Furthermore, bird vocalizations vary acoustically as a byproduct of adapting to the environment, according to the acoustic adaptation hypothesis.
Males give these false alarm calls when females leave the nest area during the mating season, and are thus able to disrupt extra-pair copulations.
The intruded egg develops exceptionally quickly; when the newly hatched cuckoo is only ten hours old, and still blind, it exhibits an urge to eject the other eggs or nestlings.
The sudden arrival of such a substantial quantity of the cicadas provided a source of sustenance for the Onondaga people who were experiencing severe food insecurity following the Sullivan campaigns and the subsequent brutal winter.
"Targeting the Anuak: Human Rights Violations and Crimes Against Humanity in Ethiopia's Gambella Region" (PDF).
There has been an approximately decade long cycle of recurrent droughts in this part of east Africa since earlier in the 20th century and by the late 1970s signs of intensifying drought began to appear.
Some authors, like the Bosnian political theoretician Jasmin Hasanović, connect the emergence of ochlocracy in democratic societies with the decadence of democracy in neo-liberal Western societies, in which "the democratic role of the people has been reduced mainly to the electoral process".
Under the Transit treaty between Afghanistan and Pakistan a massive network for smuggling developed.
Party factionalism, corruption, personal rivalries, scandals, and political instability characterized the Sadiq regime.
The Molotov–Kuusinen agreement mentioned leasing the Hanko Peninsula, and determining the number of troops to be appointed in a separate agreement.
The propagandistic glorification of Mussolini also accompanied the party's transformation from 1926 onward.
Resolution 1989 dealt with sanctions relating to Al-Qaeda, while Resolution 1988 (2011) addressed sanctions against the Taliban.
Taliban The Taliban denied that the bounty program exists, with Taliban spokesperson Zabiullah Mujahid saying that "our target killings and assassinations were ongoing in years before, and we did it on our own resources" without assistance from intelligence agencies.
China provided economic support to Mongolia by building factories and apartment blocks, and thousands of Chinese laborers were involved in the projects until they were withdrawn in 1962 in an unsuccessful bid to pressure Mongolia to break with the USSR during the Sino-Soviet split.
In a narrower sense, jihadism refers to the belief that armed struggle with political rivals is an efficient and theologically legitimate method of socio-political change.
Zemaryalai Tarzi, who was Afghanistan's chief archeologist in the 1970s, called it an "unacceptable decision".
This figure was updated, adding those counted by the South Asia Terrorism Portal but only concerning FATA and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and not the whole regions of the country.
Kayan Valley had functioned as a center for Ismaili political and military activities during the Soviet–Afghan War and subsequent civil conflict.
On 7 November 2014, Ehsan claimed responsibility for twin blasts that killed at least six people in Mohmand agency.
In October 2023, he launched a new social media account, Xenocosmography, marking a shift toward religious and numerological themes.
Similar proposals to those of the Prague Declaration received support in the European Parliament, which adopted a 2009 resolution on European conscience and totalitarianism.
Each Member State has its own approach to this issue but, in the interests of reconciliation, the memory of those crimes must be a collective memory, shared and promoted, where possible, by us all.
Timeline 2017 February 2017 On 13 February 2017, a suicide bombing took place on the Mall in Lahore, where a group of chemists and pharmaceutical personnel were demonstrating at the Charing Cross.
The assassin of former President Abdirashid Shermarke Ismail was tried, tortured, and executed by the Supreme Revolutionary Council.
Reason Wafawarova argued in 2008 that rigid approaches to democracy may undermine the ability for a developing country to achieve long-term stability and democracy.
In contrast, the Iron Guard in the Kingdom of Romania utilized a hardline form of mysticism-driven religion to encourage determination among the nation's ultranationalists.
However, Italy's conquests were always heavily contested, both by various insurgencies (most prominently the Greek resistance and Yugoslav partisans) and Allied military forces, which waged the Battle of the Mediterranean throughout and beyond Italy's participation.
The militants deliberately targeted civilians socializing outdoors, such as by executing an elderly florist serving religious travelers.
He also said that the agreed-upon period of reduction in violence was over and that operations against Afghan government forces could resume.
They confront the reader with the weight of past loss and the fear of an unknown future," adding that "despite their challenging nature, the pieces were deeply therapeutic." Karla Strand of Ms.
The Japanese had also assisted the formation of the Burma Independence Army (BIA), which aided the Japanese during their invasion.
Special Operations forces, among others the 7th Special Forces Group, 160th SOAR, Navy SEALs, and MARSOC Marines.
Although the Duke of Monmouth's rising of 1685 was the last rebellion, there was scarcely a year in which London or the provincial towns did not see aggrieved people breaking out into riots.
See also Presidential Commission of the Russian Federation to Counter Attempts to Falsify History to the Detriment of Russia's Interests Propaganda in the Russian Federation Russian web brigades == References ==
The Territory of the Al-Qaeda in Iraq or also Islamic Republic of Qaim during the occupation of Al-Qa'im in 2005, refers to the areas controlled by the Al-Qaeda in Iraq.
Doe's favoritism towards the Krahn people increased tensions by encouraging boundaries and status differences among native Liberian ethnic groups.
Among the founders of Lutte du Peuple were some dissident left-wing nationalists of the Ordre Nouveau and European socialists of the Pour une Jeune-Europe (not to be confused with Jeune-Europe headed by Thiriart), directed by Yves Batille.
Under Allende they were reorganised under the rubric National Confederation of Mothers' Centres (Confederación Nacional de Centros de Madres, COCEMA) and leadership of his wife, Hortensia Bussi, to encourage community initiatives and implement their policies directed at women.
When Bokassa declared that he was going to be hosting a coronation for himself as the emperor of the new Central African Empire, many of the novelties that attributed to the luxurious event came from France.
In 1985, Israel began to withdraw from Lebanon, as a result of domestic opposition in Israel and international pressure.
Miller would executive produce alongside fellow Handmaid's Tale executive producer Warren Littlefield of The Littlefield Company, with MGM Television as the studio.
All estates over 0.5 km2 in pre-war Polish territories and all over 1 km2 in former German territories were nationalised without compensation.
On 11 December 2020 Ziaulhaq Amarkhil the Governor of Nangarhar Province claimed on his Twitter account that Abdul Wali was killed by National Directorate of Security in the Chaparhar District although his death was not confirmed by the United States.
Land views capitalism as the driver of modernity and deterritorialization, advocating its use to dissolve existing social systems and reach a technological singularity.
Race Neoreactionaries endorse scientific racism, a pseudoscientific view which they refer to as "human biodiversity".
Hitler later dramatised an episode from this period when his father took him to visit a customs office, depicting it as an event that gave rise to an unforgiving antagonism between father and son, who were both strong-willed.
The Security Council reaffirmed Resolution 1373 (2001) and its determination to facilitate the implementation of counterterrorism obligations.
On 27 January 2003, during Operation Mongoose (War in Afghanistan), a band of fighters were assaulted by US forces at the Adi Ghar cave complex 25 km (15 mi) north of Spin Boldak.
The Agence France-Presse reported that Ansar Dine claimed to occupy the towns of Tinzaouaten, Tessalit, and Aguelhok, all close to the Algerian border, and that they had captured at least 110 civilian and military prisoners.
The term Talibanization (or Talibanisation) refers to a type of Islamist practice that emerged following the rise of the Taliban movement in Afghanistan, where other religious groups or movements come to follow or imitate the strict practices of the Taliban.
Boys' education emphasized discipline and physical training, while girls were taught to become supportive wives and caring mothers to breed a stronger, healthier new generation.
One criticism is that interests, both social and economic, are so diverse that a state cannot possibly define or organize them effectively by incorporating them.
Bush described his objectives for post-Cold War global governance in cooperation with post-Soviet states.
In theory members of the Regional Command were responsible to the party congress, but in practice they controlled the congress, and the leadership often decided results beforehand.
As the government broke into several factions, the issue was how to carry out a transfer of power to a new government.
Methods of electing the parliament can not be considered democratic, because the masses become completely disconnected from the Members of Parliament.
France accused the group of summarily executing 82 soldiers and civilians in capturing Aguelhok, describing the group's tactics as "Al-Qaeda-style".
The Derg was established on 21 June 1974 as the Coordinating Committee of the Armed Forces, Police and Territorial Army, by junior and mid level officers of the Imperial Ethiopian Army and members of the police.
The structure was destroyed by Taliban forces in September 1998, shortly after they captured the Kayan Valley.
A Burma Independence Preparatory Committee, chaired by Ba Maw, was formed on 8 May 1943 with a wide variety of respected members.
Pöttering brought up the classic study on totalitarianism by Hannah Arendt, which developed "the scientific basis criteria to describe totalitarianism," concluding that "both totalitarian systems (Stalinism and Nazism) are comparable and terrible," Pöttering said.
Due to a lack of information and secret annexes in the agreement, that had not been shared even with the then Afghan government, the Taliban were able to spread propaganda and disinformation about the agreement, including convincing local police and military units that the U.S.
It is one of the most important intersections in Mingora, and there are numerous shops and establishments located around this square.
These are elaborate and colorful hand-knotted carpets, which help indicate the distinctions among the various Turkmen clans.
The Kokuhonsha published a monthly newspaper called Kokuhon, and acted as Hiranuma's political support group.
Nazi-Maoism is mostly believed to have faded away after the Lotta di Popolo group dissolved itself in 1973.
However, this was opposed by the British, who, considering the timing to be unfavorable, had considerable reservations about supporting the BNA.
Norway was still under occupation in May 1945, but Vidkun Quisling and most of his ministers surrendered at Møllergata 19 police station on 9 May, one day after Germany's surrender.
Three days after establishing the National Assembly, its inaugural session was held at the pre-war Legislative Building and it elected by majority Benigno S.
See also Territory of the Islamic State of Iraq Territory of the Islamic State Territory of Boko Haram Territory of Jama'at Nusrat al-Islam wal-Muslimin Islamic Emirate of Somalia == References ==
This is supposed to allow a safe passage after the 31 August deadline for withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan.
Vincent Tong as Fuzz, an insect living in the Land of Monsters, who accompanied Kai and Daidan through the former realm until it was later revealed that he is the son of the Queen of the Monsters and was actually only luring Kai to her so he could be eaten.
On 8 September, Akhundzada issued a statement addressed to the interim government, telling it to uphold Sharia in Afghanistan.
It copies the "fashwave" aesthetic used initially by online supporters of figures like Donald Trump or Ron DeSantis.
Often, they took names such as Communist Party (Marxist–Leninist) or Revolutionary Communist Party to distinguish themselves from the traditional pro-Soviet communist parties.
However, members of the KPRA were never elected, as the Central Committee of the CPK appointed the chairman and other high officials both to it and to the State Praesidium.
Measures included a checklist in order for states to fulfill their obligations to the committee, and for states forwarding names to the list to use a "statement of case" describing the reasoning behind the request.
The Taliban were very reluctant to share power, and since their ranks were overwhelmingly Pashtun they ruled as overlords over the 60% of Afghans from other ethnic groups.
Reginald Slitterbottom, Frak's father and an archaeologist who is a member of the Explorers' Club, being its first Serpentine member.
From the Stalin era to the early Brezhnev era, the Soviet economy grew faster than the United States and maintained itself as the second largest economy in both nominal and purchasing power parity values for much of the Cold War until 1988, when Japan took the second place.
Assad's victory also marked the supersedure of the military over the Ba'ath party structures; making the armed forces a central centre of political power.
Life expectancy in the North was 72 before the famine which was only marginally lower than in the South.
Czech Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg argued that the denial of the crimes of communism is analogous to denying the crimes of Nazism, which in many EU countries is a criminal offence, arguing that "there is a fundamental concern here that totalitarian systems be measured by the same standard.".
The popularity of the conquest meant that newspapers such as the Asahi Shimbun that had initially opposed the war swiftly pivoted to support the war as the best way of improving sales.
Saddam reacted by threatening to invade Kuwait if it continued to increase its oil output (which Kuwait did nevertheless).
France In 1964, a Maoist circle formed at École Normale among students who studied with Louis Althusser.
Corporatist systems were most prevalent during the mid-20th century in Europe and later elsewhere in developing countries.
Goryeo was never conquered by the Mongols, but exhausted after three decades of fighting, the Korean court sent its crown prince to the Yuan capital to swear allegiance to Kublai Khan, who accepted and married one of his daughters to the Korean crown prince.
As a result, he decided not to use the term "Maoism" and instead favoured characterising these ideological contributions as Mao Zedong Thought (Mao Zedong sixiang).
The creation of extremely large industrial complexes, farms, engineering efforts, buildings and statues was to prove the superiority of the socialist system over capitalism.
Yarvin told Vanity Fair: "The fundamental premise of liberalism is that there is this inexorable march toward progress.
By April 1969 the "popular revolutionary" uprising had been crushed, and al-Haji recanted his beliefs publicly.
Sam Jaeger as Mark Tuello (seasons 4–6, recurring season 3, guest season 2), an operative of the U.S.
Under Karmal, the Khalqist's were purged and replaced by the Parcham majority in the Council of Ministers.
Women's associations were eventually brought under the control of the party, as was the press, and in December 1971 Mobutu proceeded to emasculate the power of the churches.
Other Nazi collaborators, as well as Germans accused of war crimes, were also arrested and tried during this legal purge.
On 15 November 1990 after the elections the People's Republic of Bulgaria was officially renamed to the Republic of Bulgaria.
It may also be applied unfairly by those who do not understand Islamic culture and the basis of sharia law, or who fail to distinguish between moderate Islamic and extremist Islamist states, or misapplied to perceived threats which are not true or have yet to be proven.
titled "The Trump Administration and the Media", which mentioned that Trump's verbal attacks included the term "the enemy of the people".
Terijoki Government See also Finnish Socialist Workers' Republic, an earlier, independent socialist state which existed for several months in 1918.
In September 2024, the New York Society Library listed Tell Me What You See as one of the "Best Books of the 21st Century (So Far)," alongside titles by Neil Gaiman, Alice Hoffman, Colm Tóibín, and others.
The Protocols incorporate many of the core conspiracist themes outlined in the Robison and Barruel attacks on the Freemasons and overlay them with antisemitic allegations about anti-Tsarist movements in Russia.
Gigantomania (from Ancient Greek γίγας gigas, "giant" and μανία mania, "madness") is the production of unusually and superfluously large works.
Eventually, Japanese became the official language in addition to the Chinese taught in Manchukuo schools.
Critics said that the Afghan withdrawal would undermine the fragile security situation in the region and that the troop reductions would hamper the ongoing peace talks between Taliban fighters and the government of Afghanistan.
The operation aimed at indiscriminately eliminating residual threat of terrorism and consolidating gains of operations made so far.
In 1997, the country's name was restored to the Democratic Republic of the Congo; Mobutu died less than four months later while in exile in Morocco.
These organizations were a mix of Thiriart's theses with a Maoism adapted to the European scene but there was a fundamental difference because while for Thiriart Maoism was a secondary element, for Nazi-Maoist organizations it was a fundamental element.
Though human rights violations were committed by all sides, the great majority of abuses against civilians as well as actions leading to devastating famine were committed by the government.
Nazi Germany German dictator Adolf Hitler was extremely interested in architecture, and desired works of monumental scale to be built to represent the values and achievements of the Nazi regime, and to impress foreigners and later generations.
Tsolakoglou, Rallis and Logothetopoulos (in Germany, where he had escaped to) were all arrested, along with hundreds of other collaborationists.
Far more than the Chinese communists, the Khmer Rouge pursued the ideal of economic self-sufficiency, specifically the version that Khieu Samphan had outlined in his 1959 doctoral dissertation.
The Velebit Publishing House (Nakladna knjižara "Velebit"), named for the Velebit uprising, published pro-Axis works, including Japanac o Japanu [A Japanese on Japan] by the Japanese chargé d'affaires, Kazuichi Miura.
There is additional speculation that the destruction may have been influenced by al-Qaeda in order to further isolate the Taliban from the international community, thus tightening relations between the two; however, the evidence is circumstantial.
The Romanian Hearth Union (UVR), which had around 4 million supporters in 1992, has been described as neofascist.
The term was used in a Boston Globe editorial published on November 6, 1999, warning of the emerging threat of the Taliban regime almost two years before the attacks of September 11, 2001.
This appears to me to be a true new frontier; to a certain extent the religious experience can now be scientifically studied...
According to accounts of refugees who were recruited to mass gymnastics, the collectivist principle is nurtured by physical punishment such as beatings and more importantly the organization of recruits into small units, whose performances were held accountable by larger units.
Aside from the Office of the Minister President, the local Czech government in the Protectorate consisted of the Ministries of Education, Finance, Justice, Trade, the Interior, Agriculture, and Public Labour.
In 1954, Hoxha condemned the American and British liberation of Albania calling them "enemies of the people".
This authority was used to suppress and spy on the activities of civil rights workers, along with others suspected of sentiments contrary to white supremacy.
The Council urged all states to implement Resolution 1373 and reaffirmed the need to combat terrorism.
The Taliban movement first emerged on the military scene in August 1994, with the stated goal of liberating Afghanistan from its present corrupt leadership of warlords and establishing a pure Islamic society.
The National Foundation Society (国本社, Kokuhonsha) was a nationalist political society in late 1920s and early 1930s Japan.
On 2 March 1962, less than two years after returning to civilian rule, Ne Win launched a second military-backed coup d'état, this time without U Nu's blessing.
Albania, Ljubljana, coastal Dalmatia (for the presence of Dalmatian Italians), and Montenegro had been directly annexed by the Italian state.
Colossal architecture was to render the individual impotent by its sheer scale, and then mold him according to the values of National Socialism.
However, due to censorship, some films were not screened in cinemas until 1989, when communism ended in Central and Eastern Europe.
The United States agreed to an initial reduction of its force level from 13,000 to 8,600 by July 2020, followed by a full withdrawal within 14 months if the Taliban kept its commitments.
In Libya The Government of National Unity would instate a Taliban-like morality police to crack-down on "weird haircuts" and western practices.
Taliban spokesmen denied any relationship with the Front, and claimed that the group was a creation of the National Directorate of Security.
This includes diverting aid supplies, imposing heavy taxes on aid shipments, and restricting the movements of humanitarian workers.
Nazi-Maoism was a political movement and an ideology that emerged in Italy around 1968, with the formation of a group known as Struggle of the People (Lotta di Popolo).
After Germany's invasion of the Soviet Union, preparations were made for establishing Norwegian colonies in Northern Russia.
Alexander Zaitchik from the Southern Poverty Law Center wrote a report titled "'Patriot' Paranoia: A Look at the Top Ten Conspiracy Theories", in which he personally condemns such conspiracies as an effort of the radical right to undermine society.
Arolda Elbasani, in her review of Democracy Incorporated, finds Wolin's description of the US having some tendencies towards inverted totalitarianism as compelling but "rather exaggerated" and using some historical choices she calls "bewildering".
The Burmese Way to Socialism (Burmese: မြန်မာ့နည်းမြန်မာ့ဟန် ဆိုရှယ်လစ်စနစ်), also known as the Burmese Road to Socialism, was the state ideology of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma, the socialist state governed by the Burma Socialist Programme Party (BSPP) from 1962 to 1988.
Party squabbles are occasionally on public display, and there is a frantic and continuous politics among factions of the party, interest groups, competing corporate powers, and rival media concerns.
Yumjaagiin Tsedenbal, MPRP general secretary and second to Choibalsan, rose to prominence, inspecting aid deliveries and touring the Eastern Front as a Mongolian People's Army (MPA) lieutenant general.
Keys of This Blood: Pope John Paul II Versus Russia and the West for Control of the New World Order.
All OIC states—including Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates, three countries that officially recognised the Taliban government—joined the protest to spare the monuments.
Italy readied to fight against the British Empire in Africa and the Middle East, known as the "parallel war", while expecting a similar collapse of British forces in the European theatre.
Secret police organizations are characteristic of police states governed by authoritarian and totalitarian regimes.
After the end of World War I, Ahimier enrolled the University of Kiev in the Russian Empire, then traveled to Liege and Vienna to complete his academic studies.
White House report and subsequent congressional actions On April 6, 2023, the Biden White House put out its report on the August 2021 withdrawal of U.S.
Tsolakoglou's main qualification for the position was that he surrendered to the Wehrmacht the week before, on April 20, against the express orders of his commanding officer Alexandros Papagos.
Some teachers and students were Gestapo informers, which spread a climate of mistrust and paranoia across the school system as both teachers and students never knew whom to trust.
In 1990/91 an adult literacy rate of just over 60 percent was still being reported in government as well as in some international reports.
At the same time, it decided that the provision not to freeze accounts on humanitarian grounds no longer applied.
It is loosely based on the JSOC task forces such as Task Force 121, Task Force 145, Task Force 20, Task Force 6-26, and Task Force 88.
Mussolini asserted there was a "natural law" for stronger peoples to subject and dominate "inferior" peoples such as the "barbaric" Slavic peoples of Yugoslavia.
Despite this, upon declaring independence from Yugoslavia in 1991, the Republic of Croatia rehabilitated the Croatian Home Guard, whose veterans have since received state pensions.
One scholar noted how Marcos retained "all martial law decrees, orders, and law-making powers", including powers that allowed him to jail political opponents.
See also Bakhtar News Agency Mass media in Afghanistan Imams Online Islam Online References External links "Official website".
Jamaat-ul-Ahrar (Arabic: جماعة الأحرار, romanized: Jamā‘at ul-Āḥrār, "Assembly of the Free," abbreviated as JuA) is a militant group that split from Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan in August 2014.
21 November 2014, Jamaat-ul-Ahrar claimed responsibility for a grenade attack on the membership camp of Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) in Orangi Town area of Karachi.
Constructed in the mid-1990s and inaugurated on December 10, 1996, the eagle-shaped structure served as both a cultural landmark and meeting space for the local Ismaili community.
Joseph Stalin was well aware of the domestic political situation in Finland based on Soviet intelligence information, and thus did not anticipate that the establishment of the Democratic Republic would cause any revolutionary action or popular uprisings against the existing Finnish Government.
Pakistan's military said it had foiled an attempted suicide attack on a paramilitary training centre in Shabqadar, in the northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, two suicide bombers and a soldier were killed in the attempted attack, while another soldier was wounded.
Withdrawal from the Warsaw Pact In October 1964, Hoxha hailed Khrushchev's fall from power, and the Soviet Union's new leaders made overtures to Tirana.
Voice of Jihad (Arabic: صوت الجهاد, romanized: Ṣawt al-Jihād) was the title of a website, which claims to be one of the official websites of the Taliban.
There was also an environmental toll to the country, heavy deforestation from the illegal trade in timber with hundreds of acres of pine and cedar forests in Kunar Province and Paktya being cleared.
freeones of India) was a militant Islamist group in Pakistan that split from the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) in February 2014.
The name “kokuhon” was selected as an antithesis to the word “minpon”, from minpon shugi, the commonly used translation for the word “democracy”, and the society was openly supportive of totalitarian ideology.
In 1983 Hoxha relinquished many of his duties due to poor health, and Alia assumed responsibility for Albania's administration.
When a street vendor gives Tung an illegal anti-hallucinogen, he discovers that the Party leader has a horrible secret.
Sayed Rahmatullah Hashemi, a senior representative of the Taliban designated as the roving Ambassador, visited the US in March, 2001.
Quisling himself viewed the creation of his government as a "decisive step on the road towards the complete independence of Norway".
Territory The control of Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad was limited to Fallujah and Tal Afar but also for a very short time over Samarra.
Barre blamed the coup attempt on the Eastern Bloc, namely the Soviet Union and Cuba, countries that supported Ethiopia in the Ogaden War, he labeled them "new imperialists".
Origin Polybius appears to have coined the term ochlocracy in his 2nd century BC work Histories (6.4.6).
Increased negotiations Humanitarian organizations often engage in increased negotiations with all parties to a conflict, including government forces, rebel groups, and entities like Hamas.
In effect, North Korea's familial nationalism has supplanted the "rather abstract, class-oriented language of socialism with a more easily understandable and identifiable language of familial connections, love and obligations".
On 18 May 2024, the Afghanistan Freedom Front (AFF) insurgency group released a statement claiming that they carried out an assassination attempt against Azhundzada near the Shah-Do Shamshira Mosque in Kabul while he was visiting the city.
Yvonne Strahovski as Serena Joy Waterford, Fred's wife, and a former conservative cultural activist and author.
However, on the same day, Ghani also signed a decree for the release of 1,500 Taliban prisoners on March 14, but only if they agreed to sign pledges guaranteeing they will not return to battle.
In May 1978, a law was passed, whereby renting residential premises was prohibited, and tenants became owners of their rental apartments and houses.
Defenders among the American establishment saw the Taliban as Saudi Arabia-esque conservative Islamists who could act as a counterweight to revolutionary Iran.
David Dacko remained president until he was overthrown on 1 September 1981, by General André Kolingba.
Voice of Jihad was also the title of an online journal published by the Saudi branch of al-Qaeda between 2004 and 2007.
In the 1990s, Land was closely affiliated with the Cybernetic Culture Research Unit (CCRU), a "theory-fiction" collective co-founded by Land and cyberfeminist philosopher Sadie Plant at the University of Warwick.
In practice, the Arab Socialist Union then merged with the apparatus of the General People's Congress.
In addition, Italian leader Benito Mussolini's grandiose schemes to build a new Roman Empire in the Mediterranean directly clashed with Greek pretensions to control the Aegean Sea and the Dodecanese islands (then under Italian control) and to exert stronger influence in Albania.
The militants fatality reports are the official reports and battle logs gathered and published by the Ministry of Defence on the accounts of the rate of human casualties suffered by the Taliban in the frontier war since 2005.
Despre reconsiderarea critică a trecutului, Ion Gavrilă Ogoranu și rezistența armată anticomunistă din România [Between myth and trivialization.
Gaddafi and his companions intended to achieve this through "social justice, high levels of production, the elimination of all forms of exploitation and the equitable distribution of national wealth".
This contrasts with the liberal conception of constitutionalism that "law, rather than men, is supreme." Unlike the relatively constant (and, in some instances, permanently fixed) nature of democratic constitutions, a Marxist–Leninist constitution is ever-changing.
Another suit was filed by Koutoulas and the Let'sGoBrandon.com Foundation against NASCAR in September 2025, seeking $76 million in damages for the sponsorship being rejected.
In October 2021 then-Pakistani prime minister Imran Khan expressed his view that "...if TTP surrender and accept Pakistan's law, then they will be free from charges." However, TTP denied the state of prime minister.
The judicial branch of the Sudanese government consists of a Constitutional Court of nine justices, the National Supreme Court, the Court of Cassation, and other national courts; the National Judicial Service Commission provides overall management for the judiciary.
A separate Wall Street Journal report said that the NSA has "strongly dissented" from the CIA and Defense Intelligence Agency assessments that the bounty plot is credible and real.
The Alliance for the Union of Romanians has also been associated with this current, although its leaders have denied any such connection, and so has been the United Romania Party by Vice.
Food shortages Prioritizing the shortages of food, he organized an agency to distribute rice, even though most of the rice was confiscated by Japanese soldiers.
Background Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad was founded in Jordan in 1999, between 1999 and 2004 the organization did various terrorist attacks in both Jordan and Iraq, however besides that the organization didn't controlled any territory until circa.
Wells-Barnett EtymologyOnLine External links Quotations related to Mob rule at Wikiquote The dictionary definition of mob rule at Wiktionary
Kim Il Sung believed that excessive foreign aid threatened a country's ability to develop socialism, which only a state with a strong, independent economy could build.
He attributed the popularity of the phrase to frustration with Biden's "disastrous policies", including his handling of the COVID-19 pandemic and the southern border.
After the rise of anti-Jewish violence in the British Mandate of Palestine one year prior, support for the Brit HaBirionim faction of the ZRM soared, Brit HaBirionim quickly became the largest faction within the ZRM in 1930.
The Taliban had heralded their ascendency in the area by killing the famous Pakistani dancer Shabana in the square.
As soon as he announced his willingness, on March 18, to resign in order to make way for a neutral interim government, Najibullah immediately lost control.
In the first half of 1976, about 400 people were sent there; in the second half of the year that number was nearer to 1,000.
Dennis Ray Morgan adds that in addition to the concentration of raw military power, technology is helping to lead the world towards the type of inverted totalitarianism seen in 1984 and Brave New World.
See also Jamaat-ul-Ahrar Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan Fazlullah Operation Zarb-e-Azb References External links "Taliban's former spokesman Ehsanullah Ehsan surrenders: Pakistan Army".
Circulation of the tögrög was strictly controlled by the MPR government with Soviet backing, and its foreign exchange rate was artificially fixed.
Links between neo-Legionary organizations and priests of the Romanian Orthodox Church are a documented phenomenon in Romania.
Hun Sen's forces also carried out military activities, with UN peacekeepers proving ineffective in preventing the violence.
But they agreed for an indefinite ceasefire and that both sides should console with their elders for the next three months.
Mark Hildreth as Arrakore, a djinn and one of the few known inhabitants of Djinjago to escape from its destruction.
In line with the dictates of authenticity, the name of the country was changed to the Republic of Zaïre on 27 October 1971, and that of the armed forces to Zairian Armed Forces (Forces Armées Zaïroises—FAZ).
A draft constitution was formed by the Preparatory Commission for Independence, consisting of 20 members from the KALIBAPI.
The end of the Cold War and collapse of the Soviet Union dealt a deep blow to Assad, who retained the nostalgia for the old Soviet-led socialist order.
"Might makes right" or "might is right" is an aphorism that asserts that having superior strength or power gives one the ability to control society and enforce one's own agenda, beliefs, concepts of justice, and so on.
Zarqawi had reclaimed his base in western Anbar, declared Al Qa'im as his capital, and was also operating in Hit and the Haditha Triad.
It is commonly used in reference to Orwell's 1949 dystopian novel Nineteen Eighty-Four which describes an oppressive fictional totalitarian society where propaganda is used to manipulate the population.
On paper, the Grand Council had the power to recommend Mussolini's removal from office, and was thus theoretically the only check on his power.
Noua Dreaptă ("New Right") and the Everything For the Country Party have been described as neo-Legionary.
Shermarke had been visiting drought-stricken areas in the northeast when the assassin, Said Yusuf Ismail, shot and killed him.
The elder statesman Saionji Kinmochi publicly criticized the organization of promoting Japanese fascism.
A president served as head of state and head of government, with sweeping executive and legislative powers.
Several representatives of the Russia-based organisation World Without Nazism have criticised the Prague Declaration.
On 22 May 1939, Galeazzo Ciano, Italian Foreign Minister, signed the Pact of Steel with Germany, which officially sanctioned the birth of a binding Italian-German alliance.
Ultranationalism has been an aspect of fascism, with historic governments such as the regimes of Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany building on ultranationalist foundations by using specific plans for supposed widespread national renewal.
He was instead kept in his palace, which was sufficiently stocked with goods to allow him a luxurious lifestyle throughout the Khmer Rouge years.
Thus, he prefers capitalist monarchies to pursue long-term technological progress, as he believes democracy focuses on short-term public interests.
In the fighting that ensued, 24 people (including Sheikh Abdel Latif Moussa himself) were killed and over 130 were wounded.
Operation Radd ul Fasaad On 22 February 2017, in response to the Operation Ghazi, Pakistan Army launched Operation Radd-ul-Fasaad (lit.
Soon, Abba Ahimier, the poet Uri Zvi Greenberg, and Wolfgang von Weisl, the chairman of their Palestine central committee, became the ideological leaders of the Revisionists, after Jabotinsky was banned from returning to Palestine by the British authorities, due to his political activities.
After the PDPA government had ordered the replacement of seven Khalqist officers with Parchamites, the seven officers sent the intended replacements back.
The Defence Council was established at the national, provincial and district level to devolve powers to the local PDPA.
One day later Ansar Dine and MNLA proceeded to take the towns of Kidal, Gao, and Timbuktu within the following ten days.
Afghanistan's long history of resistance to any type of strong centralized governmental control further undermined his authority.
Organizations such as the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), the Palestine Red Crescent Society, and international NGOs like Médecins Sans Frontières have been all involved in providing humanitarian assistance.
[in] developing citizens who seek the common good." Thucydides, the famous Greek historian of the Peloponnesian War, witnessed the fall of Athenian democracy and applied scientific history in his critique of the democratic government.
representative Madison Cawthorn that former president Trump would return to power "with a vengeance".
In addition, some members of the American Left may use it to criticize the Republican Party and the Christian right in their allegations that the radical right wing is implementing policies which are based on Christian fundamentalism.
It was a professed communist state, governed first by the Hungarian Working People's Party and after the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party.
One theme in the story, however, seems compelling to me, in view of recent experiments with hallucinogenic drugs: the theological experience, which so many who have taken LSD have reported.
This approach requires a functioning market and banking system, which may not be available in all locations.
On May 5–6, 1992, Hizb-i Islami subjected Kabul to a heavy artillery bombardment, killing and injuring an unknown number of civilians.
According to Timbuktu's mayor, the announcement caused nearly all of Timbuktu's Christian population to flee the city.
The curfew imposed by the dictatorship forced the remaining Nueva Canción scene, now rebranded as Canto Nuevo, into "semiclandestine peñas, while alternative groove disseminated in juvenile fiestas".
Initially called the Somali Salvation Front (SSF; later the Somali Salvation Democratic Front, SSDF), which would soon oppose the Somali government.
Several decades later, the anti-Catholic Gordon Riots swept through London and claimed hundreds of lives; at the time, a proclamation painted on the wall of Newgate prison announced that the inmates had been freed by the authority of "His Majesty, King Mob".
However, 5,000 US troops still remained in Kabul, and NATO troops were still present at the Hamid Karzai International Airport.
He also praised Trump for breaking from Republican practices of trying to "play ball and help the system work" and instead "trying to move all of the levers of this machine that he can move", though also stating "what he’s doing is not at all what I would do with an opportunity like this.
Colonist-native ethnic tension in Liberia had been prevalent since the arrival of the Americo-Liberians in the early 1800s.
Other authors have upheld brutalism and socialist realism as modernist art forms which exist beyond simply being physical manifestations of totalitarian ideology.
The Council on Foreign Relations began in 1917 with a group of New York academics who were asked by President Woodrow Wilson to offer options for the foreign policy of the United States in the interwar period.
The resolution is considered part of the emergence of an anti-communist political culture in the European Union.
The final composition of the People's Government, its powers and actions, are to be sanctioned by a Diet elected on the basis of universal equal direct suffrage by secret ballot.
In the 1990s, it had one of the world's lowest rates for dependence on petroleum, using hydroelectric power and coal instead of imported oil.
Evidence suggests that support for female genital mutilation remains high, especially among rural and less well educated groups, although it has been declining in recent years.
Whlle Al-Qaeda in Iraq controlled territory it isn't considered to be a quasi-state like the Islamic State in Iraq or the Islamic State.
The majority of French historians and all postwar French governments have contended that this vote by the National Assembly was illegal.
In December 2021, Brown, who is a Republican, said he had remained quiet during its proliferation because he had "zero desire to be involved in politics," before expressing his wish for it to be used in a positive context instead.
Nor the MIM (Maoist International Movement) and other subversive [or front] organizations, nor those underground.
But let our might be our law of right, for what is weak proves itself to be useless." The related idea of "woe to the conquered" is stated in Livy's History of Rome, in which the similar Latin phrase "vae victis" is first recorded.
Task Force 373 (TF373) was a joint military commando unit that was active in the War in Afghanistan.
Callers claiming to represent the group contacted several Afghan officials in May 2012, including Zabul Province representative Dawood Hasas, and threatened retaliation should they vote in favor of a "strategic partnership" negotiated between Hamid Karzai and U.S.
The use of Starlink has enabled the organization to communicate in areas where security forces have no communications.
With the ratification of the new constitution in 1984, the PRC was dissolved and replaced with the Interim National Assembly (INA) on 22 July 1984.
The Thirst For Annihilation: Georges Bataille and Virulent Nihilism (An Essay in Atheistic Religion) (London and New York: Routledge, 1992).
He argued that oligarchy is unavoidable in any organization due to the practical demands of organizing.
Nuon Chea ordered the cadres in control of S-21 to kill all remaining inmates prior to it being captured by the Vietnamese.
Until the passing of both the resolutions, sanctions on the Taliban and Al-Qaeda had been handled by the same committee.
Even members of the volksdeutsche (ethnic Germans) living in the protectorate complained their living standards had been higher under Czechoslovakia, which was quite a surprise to most of them, who expected their living standards to rise under German rule.
The students protested for the implementation of several demands including an end to Soviet occupation.
The State of Burma (Burmese: ဗမာနိုင်ငံတော်, MLCTS: ba.ma nuingngamtau; Japanese: ビルマ國, Biruma-koku) was a Japanese puppet state established in 1943 during the Japanese occupation of Burma in World War II.
The event was attended by fringe groups like Nordic Resistance Movement from Scandinavia but also by more mainstream MEPs from Golden Dawn and National Democratic Party of Germany.
See also Class struggle Ostracism Persona non grata Public enemy Social death Struggle session Untermensch == References ==
The victims were killed in concentration and extermination camps and in ghettos, and through mass shootings.
They tend to be more fanatical and violent, and they often bring skills such as the ability to post more sophisticated videos on the Internet or bombmaking expertise.
By the mid-to-late 1970s, Saddam's power within the Ba'ath Party and the government grew; he became de facto leader of the country, although al-Bakr remained as president, Ba'ath Party leader and Revolutionary Command Council chairman.
In 2019, under the leadership of Akhundzada, Taliban won the Battle of Darzab by defeating the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant's Khorasan branch.
In the summer of 2006, Afghan officials were deciding on the timetable for the re-construction of the statues.
In late 2015, the Israeli political journalist Gideon Levy wrote that the Israeli–Palestinian conflict has led to the decay of the civil society within Israel, with an ultranationalist movement that "bases its power on incitement to hatred" using "folkloric religion" gaining ground over decades.
Economic prospects in the near future are discouraging because of widespread internal poverty and the burden of foreign debt, coupled with continued low hydrocarbon prices and reduced Chinese purchases of natural gas.
In August 2016, the Dadullah Front announced Dadullah's nephew Mullah Emdadullah Mansoor as its new leader, and threatened to take revenge on the Taliban.
This natural disaster far exceeded the drought of 1973–74, which had contributed to the downfall of Emperor Haile Selassie.
Chervenkov's Stalinist policy led to a massive industrialisation and development of the energy sector, which remained one of Bulgaria's most advanced economic sectors.
Literally God is not, because He transcends being." Such a penetrating—and Zen—mystical view, arrived at so long ago, will be hard to top; in my own experiences with psychedelic drugs I have had precious tiny illumination compared with Erigena.
Government – Whereas the classical totalitarian government was an ordered, idealized and coordinated whole, inverted totalitarianism is a managed democracy which applies managerial skills to basic democratic political institutions.
The Communist Party of Vietnam (CPV) has elected at least one active military figure to its CPV Politburo since 1986.
Resolution Observations The Security Council noted the continuing activities of Osama bin Laden and the Al-Qaeda network in supporting international terrorism.
The social upheavals that occurred from the New Culture Movement - as well as the May Fourth Movement that followed it - largely focused around the dismantling of traditional Han Chinese cultural norms in which the majority of the populace were illiterate and largely uneducated.
The capital city itself was left encircled after Taliban forces had captured Mihtarlam, Sharana, Gardez, Asadabad, and other cities as well as districts in the east.
Zhivkov was promoted to Head of State (Chairman of the State Council) and Stanko Todorov became prime minister.
On 30 September 1990, the Ministry of Agriculture announced that it would increase loans to farmers by 100 percent, and would subsidise machinery and tools.
Khooni Chowk, officially known as Green Square or Green Chowk is a traffic intersection and a landmark in Mingora, Swat District, Pakistan.
Corporate statism or state corporatism is a political culture and a form of corporatism whereby corporate groups form the basis of society and the state.
The kebeles did carry out some housing redistribution and welfare programs, but they were unable to provide a sufficient set of retail outlets for food to offset the shortages and hoarding.
The Polish People's Republic was a unitary communist state established in the country after the Red Army's takeover of Polish territory from German occupation in World War II.
On his orders, the Taliban administration has prevented most teenage girls from returning to secondary school education.
State security bureaus and public security bureaus are functionally co-located within the same buildings as each other.
Acting under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, the Security Council exempted funds necessary for basic expenses such as food, rent, medical care and professional fees and extraordinary expenses from financial sanctions against Osama bin Laden, the Taliban and Al-Qaeda.
Although the Gestapo had a relatively small number of personnel (32,000 in 1944), "it maximized these small resources through informants and a large number of denunciations from the local population".
Exile and trial In September 1944, a new collaborationist government was established at Vienna, formed by former collaborationist ministers.
The Taliban justified the destruction on religious grounds, stating that depictions of living beings violated Islamic principles—reasoning similar to their later destruction of the Buddhas of Bamiyan in 2001.
Human rights The Assad regime's human rights record has been widely criticized by international organizations for its virtual absence.
Nagy's most controversial decision took place on 1 November when he announced that Hungary intended to withdraw from the Warsaw Pact and proclaim Hungarian neutrality.
In Socialism: Utopian and Scientific, Friedrich Engels argued that state ownership does not do away with capitalism by itself, but rather it would be the final stage of capitalism, consisting of ownership and management of large-scale production and communication by the bourgeois state.
In early 1938, in the wake of the Blomberg–Fritsch affair, Hitler asserted control of the military-foreign policy apparatus, dismissing Neurath as foreign minister and appointing himself as War Minister.
China was the most important trading partner, but commerce amounting to a few million dollars was also conducted with France, the United Kingdom, and with the United States through a Hong Kong intermediary.
The book is Bell's first and was published on December 8, 2022, by Whisk(e)y Tit, a Brooklyn-based literary press.
The Ustaše committed their deeds in a bestial manner not only against males of conscript age, but especially against helpless old people, women and children.
By 1937 the Japanese judges and lawyers in Manchukuo were either disillusioned Pan-Asian idealists or more commonly cynical opportunists and mediocre hacks who lacked the talent to get ahead in Japan.
Despite these relations, however, Barre's administration was also one of the few governments on the continent that maintained regular and extensive contacts with South Africa's apartheid regime.
In December 1932 Ahimier, along with Weisl, Gruenberg, and his supporters organized a strike-breaking "union" at the Froumine Biscuit Factory in Jerusalem by providing scabs.
See also List of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1401 to 1500 (2002–2003) Terrorist financing References External links Works related to United Nations Security Council Resolution 1452 at Wikisource Text of the Resolution at undocs.org
The working class was a negligible factor because of the evacuation of the urban areas and the idling of most of the country's few factories.
Funding methods of them include ransoming captives, taxing locals, smuggling weapons, and extorting human and drug traffickers.
An April 27, 2005, edition of Voice of Jihad included an article asking sympathizers not to appropriate the term "Voice of Jihad" for their own publications.
Early followers included Rudolf Hess, the former air force ace Hermann Göring, and the army captain Ernst Röhm.
It condemned Al-Qaeda and other associated groups for ongoing terrorist attacks and reiterated its overall condemnation of all terrorist acts.
On 26 May 2012, the MNLA and Ansar Dine announced a pact in which they would merge to form an Islamist state called the "Islamic Republic of Azawad".
Thus, with large popular support in the countryside, the capital Phnom Penh finally fell on 17 April 1975 to the Khmer Rouge.
By 2001 following years of civil war, telecommunications was virtually a non-existent sector, but by 2016 it had grown to a $2 billion industry, with 22 million mobile phone subscribers and 5 million internet users.
Edmund Glaise-Horstenau, the German Plenipotentiary General, blamed Italy for demanding too much from the NDH, while Galeazzo Ciano wrote in his diary that the Germans had such control over the NDH that the Croatian economy had become an Italian-German problem.
Werth identifies four categories of people that became targets of Stalinist violence in the Soviet Union from 1930 until around 1952.
Following its initial announcement, the group claimed responsibility for a number of attacks in Pakistan, including the Islamabad court attack, before merging into the Jamaat-ul-Ahrar group in August 2014.
Organizations such as La Cagoule opposed the Third Republic, particularly while the left-wing Popular Front was in power.
The restored government set up the Trials of Collaborationists (I Diki ton Dosilogon) to judge collaborators.
Corporate statism differs from corporate nationalism in that it is a social mode of organization rather than economic nationalism operating by means of private business corporations.
A report published by Human Rights Watch in 2018 revealed that Sudan has made no meaningful attempts to provide accountability for past and current violations.
The territory of Jama'at Nusrat al-Islam wal-Muslimin (JNIM) refers to the territories in the Sahel region under the de-facto control or influence of the Al-Qaeda aligned JNIM in the Sahel where it has waged insurgencies against various countries.
Their respective forces barricaded themselves in Camp Crame and Camp Aguinaldo which were near each other on either side of Epifanio de los Santos Avenue (EDSA) in Quezon City.
After various allegations against Bokassa including the beating of school children as well as cannibalism, France intervened with two operations that sought to remove Bokassa from office, the final one being Operation Barracuda.
After Italy became isolated in 1936, the government had little choice but to work with Germany to regain a stable bargaining position in international affairs and reluctantly abandoned its support of Austrian independence from Germany.
Ideology The Revisionist Maximalist borrowed principles from totalitarianism, fascism and inspiration from Józef Piłsudski's Poland and Benito Mussolini's Italy.
Taliban rule During the Taliban occupation of the Swat District, it became notorious as the place where the corpses of people summarily executed by the group were displayed each morning.
According to the German Federal Agency for Civic Education, nearly all Islamist terrorists are Salafists, but not all Salafists are terrorists.
Peru Reportedly one of Juan Velasco Alvarado's main goals was to militarily reconquer the lands lost by Peru to Chile in the War of the Pacific.
The system of elected parliaments is a demagogic system because votes can be bought and manipulated, that is, parliamentary representation is a fraud.
Both Lenin and Bordiga did not see socialism as a separate mode of production from communism, but rather just as how communism looks as it emerges from capitalism before it has "developed on its own foundations".
Those Nationalist Clubs, so named because of their desire to nationalize industry, were strong supporters of the populists, who wanted the nationalisation of the railroad and telegraph systems.
Along with the Handmaids, much of society is now grouped into classes that dictate their freedoms and duties.
Reports are based on the official ISPR accounts and news media sources in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA.
It is also a medium for broadcasting propaganda to the masses to generate love for the leader, Big Brother, in the daily, ritualistic Two Minutes Hate.
According to the officer, the 3rd Regiment deployed in the Darulaman area, where Wahdat Corps had based their artillery commander, as well as the area near the Russian Embassy where Wahdat's Division 096, were particularly targeted by the long ranged rockets.
The Twenty-Year Plan, an economic plan divided into five increments of implementation, was introduced, in order to develop the country's natural resources, including agriculture, forestry, oil and natural gas, through state development.
A new constitution was adopted in 1992, formally abolishing the communist state and establishing the present-day parliamentary republic.
This was followed by statements of Zoltán Tildy, Anna Kéthly and Ferenc Farkas concerning the restitution of the Smallholders Party, the Social Democratic Party and the Petőfi (former Peasants) Party.
"This term automatically made it unnecessary that the ideological errors of a man or men engaged in a controversy be proven," Khrushchev said.
1,094 of 1975 was conceived as a key tool within the ideological framework of the National Security Doctrine.
Operation Ghazi was a joint military offensive by the Pakistani Taliban and allied militant groups including Jamaat-ul-Ahrar and Lashkar-e-Jhangvi.
Turkmenistan exclusive holidays include Melon Day, Turkmen Woman's Day, and the Day of Remembrance for Saparmurat Niyazov.
Pope Francis observed that "immense inequality, injustice and acts of violence" have arisen from adoption of the principle of "might is right".
During Reform and Opening Up, Deng Xiaoping described the "true spirit" of Mao Zedong Thought as "seeking truth from facts".
Nick Land elaborated upon Yarvin's ideas and coined the term "Dark Enlightenment", applying it to his accelerationism as a means to achieve a technological singularity.
History Origins The Egyptian Islamist movements of 1950s are generally considered to be the precursors of contemporary Salafi-Jihadist movements.
After months of angry debate, the assembly adopted a constitution that mirrored the Yugoslav and Soviet constitutions.
For example, the Taliban issued edicts forbidding women from being educated, forcing girls to leave schools and colleges.
Ann Dowd as Aunt Lydia Clements, a woman in charge of overseeing the Handmaids in their sexual re-education and duties.
According to a report by Le Monde, this is because it had been found to be more practical and affordable than the usage of satellite phones.
'faith/belief'); this is in reference to a massive conversion to Islam of two hundred thousand households in the year 971.
The plot features a dystopia following a Second American Civil War wherein a theonomic, totalitarian society subjects fertile women, called "Handmaids", to child-bearing slavery.
Metaxas' regime founded the Workers' Center (Εργατικό Κέντρο), which was established to look after workers' housing and recreation, among other things.
by Zalmay Khalilzad for the first Trump administration, the negotiations for the agreement did not involve the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, the Afghan government at the time.
North Korea is governed by the Ten Principles for the Establishment of a Monolithic Ideological System, which establishes standards for governance and a guide for the behaviours of North Koreans.
This coup led to a permanent schism between the Syrian and Iraqi regional branches of the Ba'ath Party, and many Syrian Ba'athist leaders defected to Iraq.
The British historian Richard Overy wrote the huge demands of the Four Year Plan "...could not be fully met by a policy of import substitution and industrial rationalization".
It stressed the importance of individuals and entities being listed subject to the nature of Al-Qaeda.
The Chinese Embassy in Afghanistan issued a travel warning on 19 June, urging Chinese citizens to "leave Afghanistan as soon as possible" and demanding Chinese organizations to "take extra precautions and strengthen their emergency preparedness as the situation deteriorated" in the country.
From 1945 to 1992, around 5,000 men and women were executed and close to 100,000 were sent to prison as they were labeled enemies of the people.
It condemned the Taliban for allowing Afghanistan to be used as a base for terrorist activities and training by the Al-Qaeda network.
Totals At least 28,907 militants (total casualties: 43,346+) have been reportedly killed so far (from January 2005 to present).
Science fiction, always probing what is about to be thought, become, must eventually tackle without preconceptions a future neo-mystical society in which theology constitutes as major a force as in the medieval period.
The talks were going on for two weeks, reports suggest that Pakistan has released some TTP senior commanders Muhammad Khan and Muslim Khan.
At this juncture Omar passed a decree banning the cultivation of opium, and production dropped to an estimated 74 metric tonnes from poppy cultivation on 1,685 hectares.
On 23 June 2013, Ehsan claimed responsibility for the killing of nine foreign tourists and their guide in Gilgit-Balitistan.
Sunset provisions are also thought to increase the long-term electoral accountability of some other types of law or regulation.
In December 1944, the AFO contacted the Allies, indicating their readiness to defect to the Allied cause by launching a national uprising which would include the forces of the BNA.
Carrel also wrote this in his book: The conditioning of petty criminals with the whip, or some more scientific procedure, followed by a short stay in hospital, would probably suffice to ensure order.
Democracy – Whereas the classical totalitarian regimes overthrew weak democracies/regimes, inverted totalitarianism has developed from a strong democracy.
After the revolution, Soviet authorities graded dirt roads to connect Mary and Kushky (Serhetabat), Tejen and Sarahs, Kyzyl-Arvat (Serdar) with Garrygala (Magtymguly) and Chekishler, i.e., with important border crossings.
See also Territory of the Islamic State of Iraq Territory of the Islamic State Territory of Boko Haram Territory of Jama'at Nasr al-Islam wal-Muslimin Islamic Emirate of Yemen Islamic Wilayat of Somalia == References ==
The declassified documents state that "An intervention" in the religious entity would have "significantly damage[d] Turkish-Greek relations and force[d] the United States to choose one side in the ensuing crisis".
International response After the coup, the United States, the Organisation of African Unity, and the West African Economic Community criticized Doe and the PRC.
In 1942, economist Ante Frlić published a report on property ownership in the NDH, which argued that the country found itself in a difficult economic situation because most of the businesses were "in the hands of the Jews, and many were in Serb hands too," while Croats only had small businesses.
Charlie Carrick as Commander Judd, a powerful, high-ranking official in Gilead with control over women's affairs who maintains a coercive, mutually beneficial alliance with Aunt Lydia to further his political ambitions.
They also have a habit of sneering at local law enforcement officers.Beginning a decade later in 1956, Hoover's FBI began the COINTELPRO project, aimed at suppressing domestic political opponents.
During the Cold War, these international operations gave rise to some cooperation between various neo-fascist elements engaged in a "Crusade against Communism".
Guest Elisabeth Moss as June Osborne, the biological mother of Agnes (Hannah) who, while living in exile in Canada, remains a pivotal leader in the Mayday resistance and continues her mission to rescue her daughter from Gilead.
Socialist law is not a third family among the others, as in certain writings of Western comparatists." In other words, socialist law is civil law, but it is a different type of law for a different society.
Split from Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan The group mostly contained Taliban from Mohmand Agency's Tribes, with some members from the Punjabi Taliban based in southern Punjab.
All states were urged to report within 90 days and thereafter according to a timetable established by the committee.
After the Khmer Rouge evacuated Phnom Penh, Mok was the only senior government figure left in the city, tasked with overseeing its defence.
At around the same time, Ramos and Enrile contacted the highly influential Archbishop of Manila, Cardinal Jaime Sin to ask for help.
Throughout the 1960s, Burma's foreign exchange reserves declined from $214 million in 1964 to $50 million in 1971, while inflation skyrocketed.
Raw materials and foodstuffs were requisitioned, and the government was forced to pay the cost of the occupation, giving rise to inflation, further exacerbated by a "war loan" Greece was forced to grant to Nazi Germany.
Sadiq claimed his new government was committed to ending the southern civil war by implementing the November 1988 DUP-SPLM agreement.
Film critic Nell Minow stated that the killer, played by actor Yehuda Nahari, projects a superficial charm and skill at persuasion while at the same time failing to generate audience sympathy due to his true nature still coming out.
Ehsanullah Ehsan claimed responsibility for the blasts targeting members of government backed peace committee and vowed to continue attacking tribal peace committees.
Albania opened trade negotiations with France, Italy, and the recently independent Asian and African states, and in 1971 it normalised relations with Yugoslavia and Greece.
Part 2 When three Arc Dragons are mysteriously murdered for their crowns of horns, the ninja must participate in the Tournament of the Sources to search for the culprit.
Other tombs' architectural typologies, such as Ho Chi Minh Mausoleum and Georgi Dimitrov Mausoleum, have also been described as examples of architecture promoting communism as a political religion.
I still think that." Kai Murros is a prominent neo-fascist thought leader in Finland who has identified as a Maoist.
As a result, the US sent troops from the 2nd Battalion, 87th Infantry Regiment, and 10th Mountain Division to prop up the Afghan 215th Corps in Helmand Province, particularly around Sangin, joining US special ops forces already in the area.
The famine began in 1995, lasted for three years, and resulted in the deaths of between 240,000 and 420,000 North Koreans.
The Orthodox Church of Bulgaria continued functioning but never regained the influence it held under the monarchy; many high roles within the church were assumed by communist functionaries.
A government official said that the victims were beheaded for celebrating with music and mixgender dancing in the Musa Qala district of Helmand, which ran contrary to the Taliban's extreme brand of Islam.
Under this system, the Syrian Ba'ath Party portrayed the wisdom of Assad as "beyond the comprehension of the average citizen." Syrian state propaganda cast Assadism as a neo-Ba'athist current that evolved Ba'athist ideology with the needs of the modern era.
A 2012 novel by Rajesh Talwar titled An Afghan Winter provides a fictional backdrop to the destruction of the Buddhas and its impact on the global Buddhist community.
According to the Council of Europe, "studying the architecture of Europe's totalitarian regimes...is a way to enhance the European identity in its unity and diversity.
The leaked information shows that Task Force 373 used at least three bases in Afghanistan, in Kabul, Kandahar, and Khost.
Also, official rhetoric has become increasingly infused with transcendental and metaphysical elements, in particular with regard to the President's personality cult.
Some critics of democracy have highlighted the concept's inconsistencies, paradoxes, and limits: drawing contrasts with other forms of government, such as epistocracy or lottocracy.
The PDPA won 46 seats in the House of Representatives and controlled the government with support from the National Front, which won 45 seats, and from various newly recognized left-wing parties, which had won a total of 24 seats.
In 1989, the Soviets established the Constitutional Supervision Committee, which "was subordinate only to the USSR constitution." It was empowered "to review the constitutionality and legality of a range of state acts of the USSR and its republics.
The Legislative Council was largely a ceremonial body, existing to rubber-stamp decisions issued by the State Council.
On 3 October 1956, the Central Committee of the Hungarian Working People's Party announced that it had decided that László Rajk, György Pálffy, Tibor Szőnyi and András Szalai had wrongly been convicted of treason in 1949.
This system was largely characterized by nepotism and sectarianism, with Hafez al-Assad's seizure of power in the 1970 Syrian coup d'état leading to the consolidation of Alawite minority dominance within the military and security forces.
On 15 July 1961, two-year vocational career training was made obligatory to boost the number of skilled labourers and the minimum age of graduation rose to 15.
No true definition exists of a single unified style of "totalitarian architecture," and the term is generally considered as a descriptor of the broad trends within the architecture of totalitarian regimes in Europe rather than as a school of architecture in and of itself.
Also, the statement said the countries would continue to issue travel documents to designated Afghans.
According to Arendt, these were the first political organisations in Europe that claimed to represent the interests of the whole nation instead of the interests of a class or other social group.
On 1 July 2022, he was said to have appeared at a major religious assembly in Kabul, delivering an hour-long speech broadcast by state radio.
According to a commander of a Taliban group, the group derived its name of "Ahrar" from Majlis-e-Ahrar-ul-Islam, because the Ahraris were against the partition of India and the formation of Pakistan; they, rather, believed that the entire subcontinent was their homeland.
But in 1980, state farms and cooperatives combined accounted for only 6 percent of agricultural output and 20 percent of marketed production.
Governance During the occupation of Al-Qa'im by Al-Qaeda in Iraq in 2005, AQI adopted strict Islamic laws.
History Roots and development In September 2014, Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan chief Fazlullah ousted Mohmand Agency chief Omar Khalid Khorasani (former leader of Ahrar-ul-Hind).
Usually, this is the idea of the greatness of statehood and power." Elizaveta Likhacheva, art historian and director of the Shchusev Museum of Architecture, has described the totalitarian architecture as a common terminology, but hardly a distinct well-defined architectural style.
In response to the new offensives, it was reported that the United States would slow down their withdrawal of troops to help in counter-insurgency operations.
French Indochina, Japan and Franco-Thai War In June 1940, the Fall of France made the French hold on Indochina tenuous.
Soviet legal theorists denounced judicial review and extra-parliamentary review as bourgeoisie institutions.
The talks are held in western Khost province of Afghanistan while the Taliban government played crucial role to bring both parties on the dialogue table.
Josuah Sylvester's 1614 translation of Henry Smith's "The Map of Man" has the line "Might makes Right in every Cause".
In his words, North Korea was "a backward, colonial semifeudal society" when the communists took over, but since the North Korean communists did not accept Marxism, which was based on European experiences with capitalism, or Leninism, which was based on Russia's experience, they conceived of Juche.
pressure at the last minute (while Pinochet's plane was halfway en route over the Pacific), Marcos cancelled the visit and denied Pinochet landing rights in the country.
When Gulbrand Lunde died in 1942, Rolf Jørgen Fuglesang took over his ministry as well as retaining his own.
They were reportedly more violent, and uncontrollable, often bringing superior video-production or bomb making expertise.
After Karzai's alleged win of 54% in 2009, which would prevent a runoff, over 400,000 Karzai votes had to be disallowed after accusations of fraud.
The Hazara also were more equal towards women, with their Hezbe Wahdat having women in its leadership council and with some fighting alongside the men, even killing Taliban.
Paradoxically, a totalitarian government's complete control over communications renders that government highly misinformed.
Various other aspects of the two regimes have also been the subject of intense scholarly debate, such as whether Nazi and Stalinist ideologies were genuinely believed and pursued by the respective governments, or whether the ideologies were merely convenient justifications for dictatorial rule.
Callicles in Gorgias argues similarly that the strong should rule the weak, as a right owed to their superiority.
In the early 1980s, at least one UNDP representative, a former minister in a Caribbean country, had the credibility to get access to Mengistu, and may have moderated his excesses in some instances.
Later that month, BBC reporter Kate Clark said that "almost all women in Kabul are still choosing to veil" but that many felt hopeful that the ousting of the Taliban would improve their safety and access to food.
In 1947, Poland voted in favour of the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine, which led to Israel's recognition by Poland on 19 May 1948.
Media and arts Under the one-party rule of the Mongolian People's Revolutionary Party, media in Mongolia was strictly controlled.
The Secretary-General Kofi Annan was requested to assign the monitoring group whose mandate was to expire on 19 January 2002 to monitor the implementation of sanctions contained in the current resolution.
With the January 1973 reform, another major step was taken in the direction of further centralisation.
Mongolia With Mongolia located between the larger nations Russia and China, ethnic insecurities have driven many Mongolians to neo-fascism, expressing nationalism centered around Genghis Khan and Adolf Hitler.
Algiers was headquarters of the Vichy French 19th Army Corps, which controlled Vichy military units in North Africa.
France severed ties with Bokassa, and began to plan his excommunication when the emperor began working with Muammar Gaddafi, the Libyan leader.
Jilin and Heilongjiang, considered primarily Manchu, were separated from Han Liaoning along the Willow Palisade, with internal movement and migration regulated by ethnicity.
This was the first time since the Japanese occupation that the flag was displayed and the anthem played.
Nineteen Eighty-Four ends with an appendix explaining the words used in the Party's official language.
Mattea Conforti as Becka Grove, a student of humble origins at Aunt Lydia's academy who, unlike her peers, views her groomed future with dread and begins to question her fate.
The ministers, as heads of their respective departments, were to execute the programs and decisions of the president.
The Mullah Dadullah Front (also known as the Dadullah Front, the Mullah Dadullah Lang Allegiance or the Mullah Dadullah Mahaz) was an insurgent group in Afghanistan that claimed responsibility for a series of bombings and assassinations centered in Kabul.
The Territory of Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad refers to the territory controlled by Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad in 2004.
North Korea Korean dictator Kim Il Sung endorsed a number of hydroelectric engineering projects with gigantic Stalinist scale.
In the North Caucasus region of Russia, the Caucasus Emirate replaced the nationalism of Muslim Chechnya and Dagestan with a hard-line Salafist-takfiri jihadist ideology.
And it sees the Taliban as one potential bulwark against this." In February and again in May 2019, a delegation of Taliban officials and senior Afghan politicians met in Moscow to hold a new round of Afghan peace talks.
Michael Townley was sentenced in Italy to 15 years of prison for having served as intermediary between the DINA and the Italian neo-fascists.
In 1980, Hoxha tapped Ramiz Alia to succeed him as Albania's communist patriarch, overlooking his long-standing comrade-in-arms, Mehmet Shehu.
The Kuusinen Government was officially recognised by the Soviet Union and the Soviet satellite states of the Mongolian People's Republic and the Tuvan People's Republic.
It called on Japanese patriots to reject the various foreign political “-isms” (such as socialism, communism, Marxism, anarchism, etc.) in favor of a rather vaguely defined “Japanese national spirit” (kokutai).
See also Al-Qaida and Taliban Sanctions Committee List of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1901 to 2000 (2009 – 2011) Terrorism References External links Text of the Resolution at undocs.org Committee pursuant to resolutions 1267, 1989, and 2253 website (Al-Qaeda Sanctions Committee)
In April 2017, Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) Director-General Asif Ghafoor announced that Ehsan had surrendered himself to Pakistan's security agencies.
intelligence identified Azizi as a key middleman, collecting multiple cash payments of hundreds of thousands of dollars from Russia and distributing them to Taliban-linked militants.
Operation Khyber-1 On 9 November, at least 13 militants were killed in security forces' offensive in Akakhel which included among the dead two suicide bombers and a key commander.
In addition, during its control over large swathes of territory in Syria, ISIS (Islamic State in Iraq and Syria) significantly interfered with humanitarian operations.
The ruling Party controls reality in the Newspeak word doublethink, which describes the act of accepting two contradictory statements simultaneously: "the ability to believe that black is white, and more, to know that black is white, and to forget that one has ever believed the contrary".
In late 2004, the then hidden Taliban leader Mohammed Omar announced that the Taliban were launching an insurgency against "America and its puppets" (i.e.
A document prepared by the National Counter Terrorism Authority blamed the ‘peace talks’ with the Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) for an increase in terror attacks across the country.
On September 23, 1944, the Republic officially declared war against the United States and United Kingdom.
There are restrictions on the freedom of association, expression and movement; arbitrary detention, torture and other ill-treatment result in death and execution.
During the power vacuum which was created by the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan in 1989, the country was torn apart by warring mujahideen groups.
Use in popular culture The Welsh rock band Manic Street Preachers used the term as the title of their song "Orwellian" in 2021, featuring the lyrics "We live in Orwellian times".
The first targets of political repression, immediately after Hitler's rise to power in 1933, were the parties of the left in general and the Communist Party of Germany in particular.
On the critical reconsideration of the past, Ion Gavrilă Ogoranu and the anti-communist armed resistance in Romania] (in Romanian).
Not all Italian Fascists supported discrimination: while the pro-German, anti-Jewish Roberto Farinacci and Giovanni Preziosi strongly pushed for them, Italo Balbo strongly opposed the Racial Laws.
In its symbolism and rhetoric, the regime took inspiration from Fascist Italy, but it retained close links to Britain and the French Third Republic, rather than the Axis powers.
Meanwhile, Arin begins to wonder about his position in the ninja after being told by Lord Ras of Master Wu's responsibility for the Merge and the disappearance of Arin's parents.
Acts Acting under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, the Council decided to continue measures that would freeze the funds of Al-Qaeda and the Taliban and lifted measures in relation to aircraft formerly controlled by the Taliban in accordance with Resolution 1388 (2002).
See also Politics of Myanmar Human rights in Myanmar Economy of Myanmar References Citations Sources Books Eh Htoo, Saw and Tony Waters (2024).
During his first visit to the country in 1970, Bokassa presented him with diamonds and ivory carvings.
The JNIM was sometimes allied with the Strategic Framework for the Defense of the People of Azawad, which held territories.
Others make use of footnotes, multiple languages, hypnotic syntax, and the literary technique of erasure.
By the mid-1960s, government-sponsored land reform and nationalization of major industries and foreign investments had confirmed the new socialist direction of Syria's economic policy.
The Dark Enlightenment has been described as part of the alt-right, as its theoretical branch, and as neo-fascist.
embassy is supporting a coup d'état which the opposition, the Liberal Party of the Philippines, was spreading.
The Dadullah Front, apparently named in his honor, began operating in Southern Afghanistan, including Kandahar, Helmand, and Uruzgan Provinces, under the leadership of Dadullah's younger brother, Mansoor Dadullah.
Rise to power Formation of the National Fascist Party Mussolini returned to politics following his return from service in the Allied forces of World War I.
The New York Times confirmed the existence of TF373 and its work in connection with a kill or capture list but gave a lower number, "about 70," for the number of targets on the list.
The resolution, drafted by the United States, defined the terms of being "associated with" Al-Qaeda, the Taliban and Osama bin Laden.
Germanizable Czechs were allowed to join the Reich Labour Service and to be admitted to German universities.
The socio-economic nature of Stalin's Soviet Union has also been much debated, varyingly being labelled a form of bureaucratic collectivism, state capitalism, state socialism or a totally unique mode of production.
Background The Eagle of Kayan was commissioned by Sayed Mansur Naderi, the traditional leader of Afghanistan's Ismaili community who held the hereditary title of Sayed of Kayan.
As the security situation in the city deteriorated, other countries began to shutter and evacuate their respective embassies to the airport, where it became the center of the withdrawal for all US and NATO personnel as it became the only secure route out of Afghanistan.
Other stories are about climate change, early COVID-19 pandemics in New York City and Kentucky, and other 2020–2021 events.
After the Taliban restored the Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan, it was renamed the Official Voice of Afghanistan.
This idea "harmonized perfectly with Metaxas' convictions on social and national solidarity as well as his rejection of individualism and class struggle".
In its first fiscal year, the PRC increased military spending by 150%, which critics used to question the body's commitment to a transition towards democracy.
The same month, it was announced that Rowan Blanchard and Mattea Conforti joined the cast as Shunammite and Becka, respectively.
In August 2014, Omar Khalid Khorasani merged Ahrar-ul-Hind with other dissident TTP commanders into a new group called Jamaat-ul-Ahrar, formally splitting away from Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan in September 2014.
The idea behind the slogan was to open the government to the people, and the initial, relaxing reforms succeeded in achieving greater citizen participation in governance and decision-making.
Corporate statism most commonly manifests itself as a ruling party acting as a mediator between the workers, capitalists and other major state interests by incorporating them institutionally into the government.
By the end of September, Hitler realised that air superiority for the invasion of Britain (in Operation Sea Lion) could not be achieved, and ordered the operation postponed.
Details The Security Council reaffirmed that terrorism continued to constitute a "serious" threat to international peace and security.
In response, the coalition sent a major influx of troops for counter-insurgency operations, with a "clear and hold" strategy for villages and towns; this influx peaked in 2011, when roughly 140,000 foreign troops were operating under ISAF command across Afghanistan.
Intelligence reports that Russia supplies arms to the Taliban have persisted for several years with contact in Northern Afghanistan beginning around 2015.
In Ohio, the Ohio Revised Code section 1545 provides for general park districts, often known as "metro parks", in addition to "township park districts" allowed under ORC section 511.18.
However they urge the government to ensure the national park is set up in a way that allows it to emphasise tackling climate change, promoting species recovery, maintaining community resilience, modern governance, and that its boundaries consider the biodiversity of the area's species and habitats.
Geometry and interrelations First and foremost, the use of classical order structures, such as perspective, proportion, symmetry, circles, quadrilaterals, and triangles, was a reflection of the strong connection and admiration for the aesthetics of antiquity during the Renaissance.
Boom and decline At the beginning of the 20th century, the clock industry initially prospered but then collapsed as the First World War broke out and, subsequently, the Russian and American markets broke away.
The first (in 2004) to identify periurban parks and list their functions (environmental, social, economic).
Kirschwasser is colourless because it is either not aged in wood or was aged in barrels made of ash.
A free 27-minute SOPLAY/SOPARC Introduction, Practice, and Assessment Training DVD is available from Active Living Research.
The new methods meant many workers became redundant and brought higher competition from the newly industrialized countries.
along national parkways such as the Blue Ridge Parkway, which has numerous individually named overlooks for viewing the Blue Ridge Mountains and their valleys.
Development Background The plan was first announced in August 2016 at a presentation to the news media in the CityPlace neighbourhood, south of the Railway Lands near Bathurst Street.
In 1850, the Duchy of Baden founded the first school for clockmakers in Furtwangen in order to improve the standard of production and make it more efficient.
350 new species and sakheskhvaobis saplings were added to the garden nursery, which will soon be moved to permanent areas in the park.
Transportation The park is accessible within walking distance south from Weiwuying Station of Kaohsiung Metro.
Finn and Jake live in the post-apocalyptic Land of Ooo, where they interact with the other main characters of the show: Princess Bubblegum, The Ice King, Marceline the Vampire Queen, Lumpy Space Princess, and BMO.
To estimate how much physical activity a park generates, it is possible to aggregate the total METs across park users.
The basic requirements advocated for the mental and physical well being of children were good food, air, sunshine and exercise.
The belief—sometimes called "keyhole tenure", and which persisted as recently as the early 20th century—was actually a fallacy, but to stop landless peasants unlawfully squatting on commons, the Erection of Cottages Act 1588 (31 Eliz.
The island has hosted many business retreats and events such as the Norwegian Chess Tournament in 2015.
This was either done to wield power, or protect the sanctity of the knowledge from getting diluted or misused.
The result is a beautiful shared space for these residents, who enjoy a heightened sense of security and increased property values.
By the early 1900s, the front yard had become an accepted, "buffer between the private home and the public street".
Park systems are included, but not ranked because park systems are networks that contain multiple parks.
The two meanings of the term, as the ornamental parts of a garden, and as a commercial place of entertainment, coexisted in English from at least the 17th century.
People in the German-speaking region where it originated usually serve it after dinner, as a digestif.
Desire paths typically emerge as convenient shortcuts where more deliberately constructed paths take a longer or more circuitous route, have gaps, or are non-existent.
Industrial production The heart core of Black forest clock production was an area that extended from Triberg via Furtwangen to St.
The island is currently run by Aasmund's son, Olav Bryn, who plants and redesigns the garden every year.
There is also an extensive trail system running around the lake that is able to be hiked year-round.
Features Key features in the gardens include: Fountains: The Fountain of Venus and the Bee (1933, attributed to Prof.
Comprehensive greenway systems or networks, usually based on natural landforms such as valleys or ridges but sometimes simply an opportunistic assemblage of greenways and open spaces of various kinds to create an alternative municipal or regional green infrastructure.
Similar to dressage, teams of four riders were qualified at either the World Equestrian Games (WEG) or through a regional competition.
In 1927, the Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Commission was formed to plan and acquire parklands along stream valley corridors in the then-rural northern and eastern suburbs of Washington, D.C.
The frescoed walls of the rooms of the house belong to this phase, with red and yellow panels and small figures in an architectural framework.
The gardens take their name from the Bajulo, a magistrate who represented the sovereign authority following the Norman conquest of southern Italy.
Great Britain was the most successful nation, topping the medal table with three golds and five medals in total.
Planning approval and proposed route In January 2023, the project was given planning approval for the first section between Camden Gardens and Royal College Street.
Legal status and ownership "A Vision for Little Marlow Lakes Country Park" in 2002 set out local authority supplementary planning guidance which states that "Land ownership of the Gravel Pits is predominantly private and fragmented" and "has a complex distribution of land ownership.
These game preserves evolved into landscaped parks set around mansions and country houses from the sixteenth century onwards.
References Sources This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
The subsequent expansion of the city outside the walls of the castrum followed these routes, giving a disorderly appearance to the urban plan.
Types of neighborhood parks include mini-parks, or pocket parks, and may be further described by their predominant recreational offering.
Viewing points may also be found on hill or mountain tops or on rocky spurs overlooking a valley and reached via a hiking trail.
Tree cover is dominated by species such as holm oak (Quercus ilex) and pines, with undergrowth including ivy (Hedera helix), while hedges are formed by box (Buxus sempervirens), laurel (Laurus nobilis), and myrtle (Myrtus communis).
Part of the foundation for this project consisted of reclaiming 22 miles (35 km) of unused rail trails.
A typical kirsch chocolate consists of no more than one milliliter of kirsch, surrounded by milk or (more usually) dark chocolate with a film of hard sugar between the two parts, which acts as an impermeable casing for the liquid content and compensates for the lack of sweetness typical of kirsch.
A marine park is a designated park consisting of an area of sea (or lake) set aside to achieve ecological sustainability, promote marine awareness and understanding, enable marine recreational activities, and provide benefits for Indigenous peoples and coastal communities.
Hammen sponsored House Bill 1533 to amend the Baltimore City Charter, allowing the city to close alleyways and lease them to interested parties.
These are found in the early architecture of most cultures, from Eurasia to Pre-Columbian architecture.
The registration authorities are the county councils, and when there is no ownership, a local council, such as a parish council is normally given guardianship by vesting the property under section 8 the act.
Access to cheaper apartments on the upper floors was almost always via separate stairs entered from the outside.
A mandala vatika (Sanskrit: मण्डलवाटिका, romanized: maṇḍalavāṭikā) is a garden with architecture that is designed per Vedic geometry.
A park system, also known as an open space system, is a network of parks and other green spaces that are connected by public walkways, bridleways or cycleways.
After touring the gardens, guests eat at the restaurant on the island with a rotating buffet prepared by their chef, Andre Mulder.
''Upper Circum-Bug Lands'') is a planned national park in Ukraine, located in Khmelnytskyi Oblast, in the western part of the country.
A recreation center is a facility that supports myriad park activities, including sports and other recreational activities appropriate to the population or community that uses the park.
The cities of Urbandale, Clive, and West Des Moines all are mostly in Polk County, but have parks located in other counties which are not counted towards parks in Polk County.
IUCNcategory PRO (proposed) In 1998 Karimpuzha was listed by the first World Heritage Forest meeting in Berastagi, Indonesia, as being of potential interest as a World Heritage Forest.
After the handover of Taiwan from Japan to the Republic of China in 1945, the Kuomintang government continued the military purpose of the camp until 1979, when the camp was deemed no longer suitable for military purposes.
The Vauxhall arranged masquerades, fire works, and performances by actors, athletes, circus artists and all sorts of artists passing through town.
They include: Memoirs of the Court of England during the Reign of the Stuarts (1840) Memoirs of the Court of England from the Revolution of 1688 to the Death of George II (1843) George Selwyn and his Contemporaries (1843, new ed.
Park police are a type of security police who function as a full-service law enforcement agency with responsibilities and jurisdiction in park areas primarily located in cities and other urban areas.
Many of these early playgrounds were designed by important landscape architect, Frederick Law Olmsted who was earlier involved with the highly influential design of Central Park, New York.
These are used during worship and meditation, and sanctified with specific rituals and offerings to bring in blessings and auspiciousness.
State statutes often have a general law to provide for park districts' creation, dissolution, geographic borders, and annexation; the selection of governing boards, often referred to as park boards; and the criteria for levying property taxes on behalf of the district.
Community Greens, sometimes referred to as backyard commons, urban commons, or pocket neighborhoods, are shared open green spaces on the inside of city blocks, created either when residents merge backyard space or reclaim underutilized urban land such as vacant lots and alleyways.
In 321 BC the Partition of Triparadisus was signed at Triparidisus in Syria, a vast pleasure grounds complex in Syria.
They have also shaped the outdoor educational profession in other ways: in 1983, at a meeting of the Association of Experiential Education, women educators met around a picnic table at midnight to discuss the problems facing women in the field of outdoor education.
The Forge: Lemont Quarries Adventure Park is an adventure park that opened July 17, 2020 in Lemont, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago.
Control of the garden changed hands a few times, before it fell in Zugdidi City Council, who turned it into a culture and leisure park hosting a varieties of events, entertainment, and attractions, but the care and development of the plant collection was neglected.
Entrants included Adjaye Associates, AL_A, AHMM, Asif Khan, Coffey Architects, Cullinan Studio, CZWG, David Kohn, Grant Associates, Hawkins\Brown, Jamie Fobert Architects, LDA, Lifschutz Davidson Sandilands, Migrants Bureau, Weston Williamson, and Zaha Hadid Architects.
The Société des établissements de plein air du Québec (French pronunciation: [sɔsjete dez‿etablismɑ̃ də plɛn‿ɛʁ dy kebɛk], Quebec Outdoor Establishments Company), also known as Sépaq, is the agency of the Government of Quebec that manages parks and wildlife reserves.
Greenprinting often involves use of state-of-the-art maps and models created with Geographic Information System (GIS) software that combines layers of spatial and demographic information to guide growth management efforts.
Flower gardens combine plants of different heights, colors, textures, and fragrances to create interest and delight the senses.
Fort Nelson Park stands in the vicinity today, a pocket park housing a granite monument commemorating the fort.
In the second half of the 18th century, technical progress led to winding wheels being produced in yellow brass.
Development and design Pocket parks typically develop on small, solitary, irregularly shaped, and physically damaged lots.
Such sites are often used for experimental archaeology, and as shooting locations for documentaries and historical-fiction films and television.
High-quality kirschwasser should be served around 16 °C (61 °F), warmed by the hands as with brandy.
In digital environments where natural wear does not exist, designers use "artificial" desire lines to study behavior, such as: Website heat maps to track cursor movement and clicks.
In response to continuing attacks from Native Americans and the threat of British attacks during the Revolutionary War, Fort Nelson was constructed between what is currently Main Street and the river, with its main gate near Seventh Street.
Recreation Sports facilities and activities in the area include an athletics track, angling for members of the Marlow Angling Club, open water swimming, paddleboarding and water skiing.
It is a popular destination for all those who wish to have an outdoor picnic, enjoy some outdoor activities and games or even just to have a relaxing day out with friends and family.
Corbelling supporting upper stories and particularly supporting projecting corner turrets subsequently became a characteristic of the Scottish baronial style.
History The Balio Gardens were created in 1872 by Count Agostino Sieri Pepoli who leased the Balio Towers and grazing land from the city in exchange for restoring the towers and developing a public garden.
Its purpose is to honor all veterans from Cayuga County that have served in the United States military from the Revolutionary war through current deployments.
Robert was sentenced to seven years in prison, and claimed his brother knew nothing of the cannabis operation.
It was composed of an earth terrace, or tai, which served as an observation platform in the center of a large square park.
After a 2007 Complete Streets redesign in parts of New York City, there was a nearly 50% increase in retail sales on 9th Avenue in Manhattan and a nearly 50% decrease in commercial vacancies in Union Square.
In the Middle Ages, the garden also played a very important role, but in another sense: it was walled, protected from the outside.
produced one of the earliest products of mass-produced cast-iron seating in America, an example of which is held by the Smithsonian Institution as inv.
Mandla Plant Fossils National Park Indroda Dinosaur and Fossil Park, Gandhinagar, Gujarat National Fossil Wood Park, Tiruvakkarai National Fossil Wood Park, Sathanur Akal Wood Fossil Park, Jaisalmer, Rajasthan Amkhoi Fossil Park, West Bengal.
Mount Phillips is a mountain located on the border of Jasper National Park (Alberta) and Mount Robson Provincial Park (British Columbia).
Between directly after the signage was posted and several months after, the usage increased four times.
On 1 July 1870, the name reverted to Camden Town, only to be resited in December of that year further west.
On June 26, 2009 King Bhumibol Adulyadej (Rama IX) named the park "Nagaraphirom", meaning "delightful park for the townspeople".
Often, schools have a taller, more advanced playground for older schoolchildren and a lower playground with a lower risk of falling for younger children.
Dressage Teams are made up of three riders, all of whom are also competing concurrently for individual medals.
Therefore, those competing for individual berths completed one dressage test and cross-country round, and two jumping rounds.
The European Union sets a minimum of 37.5% ABV (75 proof) for products of this kind; kirschwasser typically has an alcohol content of 40%–50% ABV (80–100 proof).
Beautiful settings such as the Golden Age, the gardens of the Hesperides, the Nymphs and the Muses, or the Elysian fields of Homer and Virgil were depicted in the literary works studied for designing these spaces.
Other common species include double-crested cormorant, great black-backed gull, herring gull, little penguin, black guillemot, Leach's storm petrel, black guillemot and black-legged kittiwake.
Additionally, community outreach that is promoted and achieved through educational opportunities of Complete Streets principles helps establish community social connectivity and encourages participation in active transportation modes.
This attack caused such panic in Rome that Pompey the Great arranged for the tribune Aulus Gabinius to pass a law, the lex Gabinia, to allow Pompey to raise an army and destroy the pirates.
Black Forest clockmakers The German Clock Museum (German: Deutsches Uhrenmuseum) also has in its collection some early Black Forest clocks with wooden cogwheels as well as a number of industrially produced Black Forest clocks.
In May 2018, the NDP government announced that Alberta was going to "create the largest protected area of boreal forest in the world by setting aside four new provincial parks and expanding another along its northeastern borders".
Structure Structurally, they consist of dry-stone lava stone enclosures, almost always circular in shape.
Outlooks: Viewpoints over Trapani, the Aegadian Islands, the Stagnone Lagoon, Monte Cofano, and the surrounding landscape.
Littke observed that "The High Line is undoubtedly loved, and it is a successful place in many ways", and that its success proves that "elevated parks can bring 'new' nature into cities without occupying ground-floor space".
The Donnafugata Garden On 12 September 2008, the Fondo Ambiente Italiano (Italian Environment Fund) received a donation of a Pantellerian garden from the Sicilian winery Donnafugata.
And there's a lot of that in the show, I think." Executive producer Fred Seibert compared the show's animation style to that of Felix the Cat and various Max Fleischer cartoons, but said that its world is also equally inspired by Dungeons & Dragons and video games.
Shilparatna, a text from the sixteenth century, states that flower gardens or public parks should be located in the northern portion of a town.
Fishing and recreation In addition to water supply purposes, Cedar Lake is managed for bass (largemouth and striped) and crappie fishing.
Events Medals were awarded in the following competitions: Individual dressage Team dressage Individual jumping Team jumping Individual eventing Team eventing Qualification Each event has its own qualification rules, but generally rely on FEI rankings.
A proposed boundary map was released in mid-2024, with another public consultation taking place in late 2024, and another final one in late 2025.
The Department of Parks and Recreation (DPR), also known as Board of Parks and Recreation or Park Board, is used by many government bodies to describe the parts of their organizations that oversee public parks and recreational public works.
Many of them serve as principal arterials and some (like Storrow Drive, Memorial Drive, the Alewife Brook Parkway and the VFW Parkway) have evolved into regional commuter routes.
Land tenure of a single ecological area can be complex, with multiple public and private entities owning adjacent properties.
For the next few decades, the park grew in its statuary and amenities and, by 1851, the park became completely illuminated.
In Richmond Park's Pembroke Lodge gardens, there is a memorial to the poet James Thomson, who died at Richmond in 1748.
His poem on Mary, Queen of Scots was published about 1831, and was followed by a collection of poems entitled Tales of the Dead.
The former quarry is of particular aesthetic interest as a bold, natural form visibly contrasting with its immediate surrounds and visually linked to the large outcrops on St Paul's Terrace.
According to a January 7, 2019 article in The Globe and Mail, some residents of Rocky Mountain House, a town of 7,000, led by United Conservative Party (UCP) Member of the Legislative Assembly of Alberta (MLA) for Rimbey-Rocky Mountain House-Sundre, Jason Nixon, oppose the creation of the park.
The site previously hosted the Pulzor neighborhood, whose residents were primarily engaged in floriculture, producing rosewater and various herbal infusions from flowers and plant roots.
Réserves fauniques (Wildlife reserves) - manages 15 wildlife reserves in forested and wilderness areas.
Plants of the Garden Introduced Plants Wetlands Plants Arid Plants References External links Media related to Zugdidi botanical garden at Wikimedia Commons
Since 2020, the Lorain Public Library System operates a converted shipping container as a "Little Library on the Lake" which lends beach and sports equipment to library card holders.
Origin and production Because morellos were originally grown in the Black Forest regions of Germany, kirschwasser is believed to have originated there.
On 11 February 2025, Buckinghamshire Council adopted its Buckinghamshire Local Cycling and Walking Infrastructure Plan, and approved prioritisation of the Haddenham-Thame Greenway.
In the 1820s, the park was destroyed and divided into residential areas, and in 1906, the Vauxhall building was torn down.
Western gardens are almost universally based on plants, with garden, which etymologically implies enclosure, often signifying a shortened form of botanical garden.
All DVD releases can be purchased on the Cartoon Network Shop, and the individual episodes can be downloaded from both the iTunes Store and Amazon.com.
The MRC recommended that the city of Sept-Îles should not accept any new commercial projects on the islands.
These small urban spaces served as low-cost interventions to improve the quantity and quality of community gathering spaces and recreational facilities in dense urban areas.
History Alberta's system of provincial parks began with the striking of a committee on parks by then Premier J.
A special authority can be set up, under the joint jurisdiction of two or more government bodies or as an independent park district to administer parks.
In 1835, the most noteworthy reformulation of the park was initiated by Malaquias Ferreira Leal, architect for the Municipality of Lisbon.
Features The entire park is spread over 200 acres (0.81 km2) of land located in the neighbourhood of Sakchi.
It is one of the five largest urban parks of India along with Cubbon Park (Bangalore), Shivaji Park (Mumbai), Chandrashekhar Azad Park or Alfred Park (Allahabad) and Maidan (Kolkata).
One such entrance, at Royal College Street, will be through the former building of the first Camden Road station which is now a Grade II listed building.
See also Park rangers List of protective service agencies List of law enforcement agencies in the United Kingdom, Crown Dependencies and British Overseas Territories#Parks police Category:Park police departments of the United States == References ==
In instances where a parklet is not intended to accommodate people, it may provide greenery, art, or some other visual amenity.
It began as part of the Iloilo River Rehabilitation Project in Iloilo City, later evolving into a popular venue for jogging and leisure, and is now lined with mangroves and other forms of riverine biodiversity.
On 11 December 2019, a Supreme Court decision put the future of some village greens at risk in England and Wales.
Analysis A Report produced by the Nous Group found that the establishment of the Great Forest National Park with three different investment scenarios could generate as much as 379,000 additional visitors to the region.
Russia In Russia, central square (Russian: центра́льная пло́щадь, romanised: tsentráĺnaya plóshchad́) is a common term for an open area in the heart of the town.
As the university expanded the botanical garden was replaced by Universitetsplatsen in the 1880s and the new university building, located just north of Kungshuset.
Civic group which advocated environmental protection and arts began to lobby for an ecological metropolitan park.
Males of the Steller's Jay in particular seek out territory near picnic tables because of the superior feeding opportunities.
Applications Monitoring of park environment and park uses Considering its multiple benefits to society and nature, an urban park is a crucial place for promoting physical activity.
Numerous cities worldwide have looked into or started construction of elevated parks, including London, Washington, DC, Jersey City, Chicago, Philadelphia, San Francisco, São Paulo, and Rotterdam.
Operating in secret for 2 years, the operation was undertaken by Robert DeRosa, brother of landowner Vince DeRosa, claiming to run two companies called Ontario Pallet and Barrie Fish.
The popularity of clocks from Black Forest grew, and plates and clock faces became more sophisticated.
The Saint Lawrence Global Observatory (OGSL) and the Institute of Ocean Sciences (ISMER) of the Université du Québec à Rimouski participated.
It has been proposed since 2002 to be established in the Tenasserim Hills over an area of 680 mi2 (1,800 km2) and extended by 540 mi2 (1,400 km2) in 2004.
Then in the modern times, the beloved gardens of Gertrude Jekyll (Munstead Wood), Vita Sackville-West (Sissinghurst Castle Garden) and Major Lawrence Johnston (Hidcote Manor Garden).
25) is an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that consolidated enactments relating to open spaces in England and Wales and Ireland.
Inclusive playgrounds Universally designed playgrounds are created to be accessible to all children.
The Parkway West (I-376) runs through the Fort Pitt Tunnel and links Downtown to Pittsburgh International Airport, southbound I-79, Imperial, Pennsylvania, and westbound US 22/US 30.
It was originally scheduled to open on May 25, with a grand opening scheduled for June 27, 2020, but due to the COVID-19 pandemic this was pushed back to July 2020.
I look forward to seeing it develop." The project started fundraising the construction costs in August 2019.
Responses were received from across the UK, with the highest numbers from Denbighshire, Gwynedd, Flintshire, and Powys.
The word mandala literally means a circular, symmetrical pattern that is used in Hindu and Buddhist symbolism.
In the vicinity of Jubilee other parks —Tata Steel Zoological Park and Nicco Water Jubilee Park are located.
In 1997 United Nations Environment Programme's World Conservation Monitoring Centre listed Karimpuza as a Protected area that overlaps with the South Western Ghats montane rain forests Ecoregion.
Given that this valley is inhabited by forest-dependent tribes, sanctuary rather than national park status is more appropriate in the short-term.
(Kentucky was part of Virginia at the time.) The fort was used as a courthouse and jail until one was built.
References in the act to charity law have been updated on several occasions, including by the Charities Act 1960, the Charities Act 1993, the Charities Act 2006, and the Charities Act 2011.
Greenprinting is the creation of conservation scenarios that help communities make informed conservation decisions.
In some cases this will also feature sweeping lawns and scattered trees; the basic difference between a country house's park and its garden is that the park is grazed by animals, but they are excluded from the garden.
The City of Barrie had opposed NAA's rezoning application on the basis that it would use a large portion of the city's scarce industrial lands, yet only contribute low-wage retail jobs to the local economy.
Restoration The gardens were restored and enhanced between 2019 and 2024, following the allocation of €1.6 million in funding secured by the municipality of Erice.
The WEG awarded five berths, the regions six (America: two, Europe: two, Asia: two), and the hosts (Great Britain).
Proposal The project was envisioned by a geographer, Oliver O'Brien, in 2015 and promoted by Camden Town Unlimited.
In the 1870s, lawn ornaments became a popular front yard feature, with wrought iron sculpture, bird baths and gazebos being particularly popular.
Through this community organization, the development of pocket parks promotes grassroots planning and strengthens relationships between residents and local authorities.
Text of the Open Spaces Act 1906 as originally enacted or made within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.
A park district is a form of local special-purpose district for providing public parks and recreation in or near its geographic boundaries.
Only one portion of this subdivision was sold, that on the corner of Water and Love Streets to a Mrs Kate Downey.
John Heneage Jesse (1809 – 7 July 1874), English historian, son of Edward Jesse, was educated at Eton and became a clerk in the secretary's department of the Admiralty.
Following this, in 2009, Buckinghamshire County Council referred to local “overwhelming support for a route between the two settlements.” Thame’s dependence on Parkway station has meant that a path to Haddenham has been a regular aspiration of Thame Town Council's annual Neighbourhood Plans.
All riders compete in the Grand Prix, which serves as the first round of both the individual and team medals.
It runs concurrently with the individual competition (riders running over the same course) so team riders are also competing for individual medals.
Present Today, the island is visited by over 30,000 guests each year and functions as a popular tourist site, complete with a garden tour and lunch/dinner in the on-island restaurant.
Like the Playground Association, the Crèche and Kindergarten Association were successful in achieving local and Queensland Government sponsorship and funding as well as funding from various national philanthropic trust funds.
This system of linear parks was designed by Frederick Law Olmsted to connect the Boston Common and Public Garden (1837) to Franklin Park (Boston), also known as the "crown jewel" of Olmstead's work in Boston.
While the original and most common material for picnic tables is wooden boards, they may be made of anything from split logs to concrete to recycled HDPE plastic.
The appearance of safety encourages unreasonable risk-taking in children, who might take more reasonable risks if they correctly understood that it is possible to break a bone on the soft surfaces under most modern equipment.
Norman Collie after Donald "Curly" Phillips, a Jasper area outfitter and guide who made the disputed first ascent of Mount Robson in 1909.
Typically, urban wilds are home to native vegetation and animal life as well as some introduced species.
Other uses Residential There are residences in the parish of Little Marlow, as well as Westhorpe House and the Westhorpe Park Mobile Home Park.
When part of the ground floor was occupied by more prestigious apartments or workshops, entrances to the private internal areas were often flanked by tabernae.
The urban wilds prioritized by municipalities tend to be partial wetlands that perform a range of ecological services while contributing to the biological diversity of the region.
George Rogers Clark had directed Linn to move the militia post to the mainland from its original off-shore location at Corn Island.
See also Greenway (landscape) Landscape architecture Landscape planning National Park Service#National Park System of the United States Principles of intelligent urbanism == References ==
Flora and ecology The gardens host a mixture of cultivated and spontaneous vegetation, including both ornamental species and native flora characteristic of Monte Erice.
Flor og Fjære is a collection of man-made tropical gardens on the island of Sør-Hidle outside of Stavanger, Norway.
Fort-on-Shore Fort-on-Shore (38°15.560′N 85°46.148′W), built in 1778 by William Linn, was the first on-shore fort on the Ohio River in the area of what is now downtown Louisville.
Bobur Park ( full name: Zahiriddin Muhammad Bobur Culture and Recreation Park) is a park located in Namangan, Uzbekistan.
Whereas "corbel" is rarely used outside architecture, "console" is widely used for furniture, as in console table, and other decorative arts where the motif appears.
Formal, extravagant pleasure gardens came to Roman Britain in the 1st century AD, such as can now be seen at Fishbourne Roman Palace.
Pepoli also undertook extensive planting works, introducing pines, walnuts, almonds and other trees across previously barren and scrub-covered slopes known locally as the Bosco Sacro di Erice, transforming the area into a landscaped green space.
Links Біорізноманітна Україна На Хмельниччині замислилися над створенням нацпарку «Верхнє Побужжя» На Хмельниччині встановлюють межі нового національного природного парку Archived 2014-02-23 at the Wayback Machine == References ==
Sometimes these corbels carry a small arcade under the string course, the arches of which are pointed and trefoiled.
In June 2002, legislation was passed to establish 13 Marine National Parks and 11 Marine Sanctuaries.
In late 2024, in response to concerns over funding, supporters argued that when the UK's first national parks were devised, the national debt was 270% of UK GDP and the UK was recovering following the Second World War.
The distinction between a heritage centre or park, and a history-based theme park can become blurred, as at Nikko Edomura, focused on Feudal Japan, and Wild West City, a self-described "heritage theme park" about the American Old West.
Common examples of park furniture include bandstands, benches, chess tables, fountains, light fixtures, picnic tables, and statues.
History The Sandusky-Lorain Tornado first made landfall in Lorain at Lakeview Park in 1924, destroying the bath house.
Others may be more narrowly focused on a particular occupation or industry, such as rail transport or the early factories or mines around which a community developed.
In the fourth round (individual final round A), the slate is wiped clean and all riders begin with zero faults.
That year, he fenced in a forest area surrounding the palace, which was he considered his "Baghdad Palace" and set up a specialist institution for horticultural sciences.
While the walls prevent wind damage to the fruit, they also retain nighttime humidity, creating a microclimate within the garden that is much cooler and more humid than the surrounding environment.
The presence of the Tata Steel Zoological Park, Nicco Jubilee Amusement Park, Jayanti Sarovar(Zoo Lake), Bat Island, Children's Park, and Rose Garden is part of the reason why this park is such a famous one.
The headwaters of the North Saskatchewan River, the source of drinking water for the province's capital city, Edmonton, which is hundreds of kilometres to the east, is located in the proposed region.
Shop assembly In the first half of the 18th century, wooden wheels were used in Black Forest clock manufacturing (German: Holzräderuhr).
Gallery See also List of tourist attractions in Jamshedpur P&M Hi-Tech City Centre Mall Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary Rankini Temple, Jadugora References External links Official website
Parque Madrid Río (also in Centro, Carabanchel, Usera, Latina, Moncloa-Aravaca and Villa de Vallecas); 121.1 ha.
Projects FEDENATUR has promoted and participated in three European Interreg projects to technical exchanges and raising awareness on the concept of Periurban Parks.
A main reason for this lies in the fragmented nature of maritime governance in international waters, the poor enforcement of existing regulations in the High seas, plus the difficult co-management that would be required of countries often in conflict.
It is just north of the 50th parallel in Sept-Îles, in the Sept-Rivières Regional County Municipality of Quebec.
Rather than attempting to modify user behavior to fit the design, the design should be modified to accommodate the user's natural preferences.
Nagaraphirom Park (Thai: สวนนาคราภิรมย์) was a small public park of about 3 rai (0.48 ha; 1.2 acres) on the Chao Phraya River in Bangkok.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend adoption of a Complete Streets policy as a strategy to prevent obesity.
Their defensive function was not restored even in the late ancient period when the city was subjected to external attacks, but the city was then of reduced importance having lost its commercial and economic functions in favour of Portus and the theatre was used as a fortress.
Potential extension Following the initial announcement of the proposed park, the Toronto Star suggested that Rail Deck Park could help revive plans for Oxford Place by Oxford Properties in 2013 to redevelop the Metro Toronto Convention Centre, located east of the proposed park, into public space.
In ancient Rome, the landscaped Gardens of Sallust (Horti Sallustiani) were developed as a private garden by the historian Sallust.
Several countries use the term "maidan" across Eastern Europe and Central Asia, including Ukraine, in which the term became well-known globally during the Euromaidan.
Parklets have also been created in Mexico in Puebla de Zaragoza during the PueblaDesignFest The first Parklet on the street in London has been installed in July 2015.
In addition to these works Jesse wrote Literary and Historical Memorials of London (1847), London and its Celebrities (1850), and a new edition of this work as London: its Celebrated Characters and Remarkable Places (1871).
Examples of a linear elevated park include New York's High Line, Chicago's Bloomingdale Line, or Seoul's Seoullo 7017 Skypark.
There are also three main functions of the garden: the sacred – 'sacred enclosure', the place blessed by gods; the power – the great gardens of Cyrus in Persia were wonderful paradises, but also masterful demonstrations of power; the domestic – the small, useful and popular city gardens.
Cartoon Network approved the first season in September 2008, and "The Enchiridion!" was the first episode to enter into production.
Corbelling Corbelling, where rows of corbels gradually build a wall out from the vertical, has long been used as a simple kind of vaulting, for example in many Neolithic chambered cairns, where walls are gradually corbelled in until the opening can be spanned by a slab.
Some are open-air museums – heritage parks – devoted to depiction of daily life or occupational activity at a particular time and place, and may feature re-creations of typical buildings of an era.
Features While the front yard's counterpart, the backyard, is often dominated by utilitarian features like vegetable gardens, tool sheds, and clothes lines, the front yard is often a combination decorative feature and recreation area.
Taking a cue from 16th-century practice, the Paris-trained designers of 19th-century Beaux-Arts architecture were encouraged to show imagination in varying corbels.
See also List of protected areas of Quebec - list of national parks and reserves in Quebec, including those under management by Sépaq References External links Sépaq (Parcs Québec) official site
See also Protected areas of Victoria References External links Great Forest National Park – Park Plan The Science Behind the GFNP – presentation by David Lindenmayer
Covering approximately 300 acres (120 ha), it features ziplines, ropes courses, climbing towers and walls, bouldering areas, fishing, paddleboating, kayaking, mountain biking and hiking trails and other outdoor activities.
From time on, many scenic viewpoints have since become tourist attractions, with numerous vistas inscribed as world heritage-listed natural sites.
Ecologically significant natural corridors, usually along rivers and streams and less often ridgelines, to provide for wildlife migration and species interchange, nature study and hiking.
Section 7(3) of the act was repealed, and the act was extended, by section 8(1) of, and schedule 2 to, the Parish Councils Act 1957 (5 & 6 Eliz.
Greenprinting can galvanize public support and encourage partners to work toward common conservation goals.
The German Clock Route (in German: Deutsche Uhrenstraße) is a themed route that connects places with relevant museums and (former) clock manufacturers in the Black Forest.
The reserve is bounded on three sides by Water, Love and Quarry Streets and on the fourth side by dense vegetation concealing development beyond to the south east.
In the late 2017, this park was closed by Chuwit Kamolvisit sold this land to Land and Houses with a value of 5,000 million baht.
One of the most expansive efforts to protect and foster urban wilds is the aptly titled "Urban Wilds program" conducted in Boston, which had its start in 1977 off the back of a 1976 report by the Boston Planning & Development Agency (BPDA), formerly the Boston Redevelopment Authority (BRA).
In some jurisdictions, furniture used in public parks is made by prison inmates as part of prison work programs.
These positive impacts are magnified in neighborhoods with low-income or racial minority populations, where green space may be scarce and the new development of larger-scale parks may be infeasible due to spatial or financial constraints.
Circular in plan, with an external diameter of 11 meters and wall height at 4 meters, the garden is located in a natural amphitheater made up of terraced vineyards, with centuries-old Zibibbo trees, in the Khamma district.
Sources External links (en) German clock Museum (Das Deutsche Uhrenmuseum) in Furtwangen in Black Forest (de) ErfinderZeiten – Clock Museum in Schramberg (en) "Gary's Antique Black Forest Clock Collectors Website and Forum".
Other buildings in Lundagård are the AF Borgen, the Lund University Historical Museum and Palaestra et Odeum.
In the 17th and 18th centuries, another type of square emerged, the so-called royal square (French: Place royale, Dutch: Koningsplein).
In the early hours of 26 January 2003 about 120 bars and other businesses on this plot of land were demolished.
Hunting parks were originally areas maintained as open space where residences, industry and farming were not allowed, often originally so that nobility might have a place to hunt – see medieval deer park.
History Surviving giardini panteschi are described as post-15th-century constructions, with major diffusion and rebuilding occurring in the 19th century as agricultural land use intensified and rural infrastructure expanded on Pantelleria.
The Labor Party was divided on the issue and did not actively support the plan during the election campaign.
King, is dedicated to the men and women from Lorain who served during the first and second World Wars.
New South Wales Governors Richard Bourke and George Gipps notably ordered surveyors to not include a town square in city designs, including Melbourne, to prevent the spirit of democracy from arising.
The gardens and restaurant opened to the public in 1995, hosting two tours per day during their season from the beginning of May until the end of September.
A list of parks in Madrid, Spain, sorted by district, is presented as follows: Arganzuela Parque Enrique Tierno Galván; 45.8 ha.
It is common in medieval architecture and in the Scottish baronial style as well as in the vocabulary of classical architecture, such as the modillions of a Corinthian cornice.
The park district holds the authority, similar to fire protection districts, to manage and raise taxes to cover park acquisition and management costs.
Like the three model playgrounds, the Brisbane City Council playgrounds were found in high density, inner city areas and included one in the Domain of the Brisbane Botanic Gardens.
In the late eighteenth century this was at least 60 feet (18 m), but from the 1790s this was decreased to 40 feet (12 m), and later 30 feet (9.1 m) as the normal maximum width.
The committee was to present its development and management plan to the Ministry of Municipal and Regional Affairs later that year.
The Upper Pobuzhzhia National Nature Park (Ukrainian: Національний природний парк «Верхнє Побужжя», lit.
The place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a particular class of cultural places.
Though there are no developed campsites near the lake, primitive camping is allowed at least 150 ft.
The north side of the park includes the public beach, Bath House (with event space with a restaurant and concession stand in the summer), rose garden, fountain, lawn bowling, gazebos and picnic areas, and several historical monuments including one of the Lorain Easter Baskets.
Gardens on the island range from roses to cacti and each garden contains exotic plants from all over the world.
The park was built on disused industrial land and flooded former Lemont yellow dolomite quarries straddling the Illinois and Michigan Canal National Heritage Area, and abutting the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal.
This led to the passage of the Provincial Parks and Protected Areas Act in 1930 and the formation of the Provincial Board of Management to oversee the system.
Today, despite the diverse legal and historical origins of commons, they are managed through a community of users, comprising those who hold rights together with the owner(s) of the soil.
See also Paleontology Prehistoric life Timeline of geography, paleontology, biology Synchrotron X-ray tomographic microscopy Fossil Parks of India List of fossil sites == References ==
Elevated parks can exist, for example, on the roof of existing buildings (see also: green roof, roof garden), or on former railways, elevated roads, or other elevated urban elements (often becoming linear parks as well).
The Weiwuying Metropolitan Park (traditional Chinese: 衛武營都會公園; simplified Chinese: 卫武营都会公园; pinyin: Wèiwǔyíng Dūhuì Gōngyuán) is a metropolitan park (one type of Taiwan national park) in Fengshan District, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
Among the renowned Renaissance gardens, the Villa d'Este in Tivoli stands out as one of the most famous examples in Italy.
This local attraction was opened to the public in 1958, on the occasion of the city's golden jubilee, the 50th anniversary of establishment.
Parque Madrid Río (also in Arganzuela, Carabanchel, Centro, Usera, Moncloa-Aravaca and Villa de Vallecas); 121.1 ha.
California The East Bay Regional Park District and Midpeninsula Regional Open Space District have extensive parklands in the San Francisco Bay Area, protecting habitat and offering recreation.
Geography Haddenham and Thame are adjacent settlements, three miles apart, located in the English counties of Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire respectively.
Thurop Van Orman, the creator of The Marvelous Misadventures of Flapjack, was also hired on as a supervising producer, providing guidance for the series' first two seasons.
They may be protected by railings to protect the public or be enhanced by a viewing tower designed to elevate visitors above the surrounding terrain or trees in order to offer panoramic views.
Ironically, the fort was built late in the Revolutionary War when the need for it had almost disappeared.
Both sides of the park were managed by the City of Lorain until 2006 when management was split between the City of Lorain and the Lorain County Metro Parks.
This park also shows off a status of Jamsetji Tata and is also known as the Mughal Gardens of Jamshedpur.
References Attribution This Wikipedia article was originally based on "The Queensland heritage register" published by the State of Queensland under CC-BY 3.0 AU licence (accessed on 7 July 2014, archived on 8 October 2014).
Description Urban planning The republican castrum at the core of the settlement had a typical rectangular plan built on two main roads that crossed at right angles in the centre: the cardo and the decumanus maximus, the latter on the route of the Via Ostiense coming from Rome.
Birdwatching Lakeview Park is a location on the Ohio Department of Natural Resources' Huron & Lorain Loop which is a trail of birdwatching sites along Lake Erie.
The south side consists of ball diamonds, concession stand, playground, picnic area, tennis and pickleball courts, and parking lot.
The designations are managed by the Bureau of Land Management within the National Conservation Lands.
Polk County is the most populous county in Iowa with around 500,000 residents living within the county boundaries, with the majority living in the Des Moines metro area.
The Mediterranean gardens were also maintained in the winter season, with winter rain allowing for the upkeep of rose and almond trees in northern Italy.
Kungshuset, built in 1584 as a residence by the Danish king, later became the first main building of Lund University.
In January 2018, "Hops and Headwaters" in support of a campaign to protect the headwaters of the Bighorn Backcountry" was held in Edmonton.
Main features of iSOPARC are a digital counter, target area mapping, project-based data management, and data export.
It was also admired by Frederick Law Olmsted and used to create the famous Emerald Necklace in Boston.
Oceania Australia Australian government The Australian Government manages an estate of marine protected areas (MPA) that are Commonwealth reserves under the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 (EPBC Act).
Examples include Ballincollig Regional Park (managed by Cork City Council), Millennium Regional Park (Fingal County Council), and Malahide Demesne Regional Park (also Fingal County Council).
1882) Memoirs of the Pretenders and their Adherents (1845) Memoirs of Richard the Third and his Contemporaries (1861) Memoirs of the Life and Reign of King George the Third (1867) The titles of these works are sufficiently indicative of their character.
Corbels sometimes end with a point apparently growing into the wall, or forming a knot, and often are supported by angels and other figures.
It was designed by Frank Gibson Costello and built from 1927 onwards, one of the builders being Sir Manuel Hornibrook.
Others include: The Chicago Lakefront Trail, the Dubai Marina, the East River Greenway, New Plymouth Coastal Walkway, and the Manhattan Waterfront Greenway.
This list of urban parks by size includes parks at least 404.7 hectares (1,000 acres) or 4 square kilometres (1.5 sq mi) and contained entirely within a locality's municipal or metropolitan boundary.
While being built under the visionary Jamsetji Tata, the Brindavan Gardens in Mysore were used as an inspiration.
The local authority challenged the registration, wanting to retain control of the lands for future expansion of the nearby Moorside Primary School's playing fields.
As of 2015, the park, covering an area of 108,000 hectares (1,080 km2), was projected to be open by 2021.
In some cases there could be common services, accessible from the internal courtyard and some insulae were perhaps used as an inn (caupona).
The committee to organize the plans and raise the money to build the park was made up of seven veterans from the Korean War.
On the ground floor were normally many tabernae (shops) opening onto the street, sometimes fronted by porticos.
To achieve this award, the 4 pillars of a nature park have to be met: conservation, recreation, education and regional development.
Country parks In some countries, especially the United Kingdom, country parks are areas designated for recreation, and managed by local authorities.
The area comprises evergreen forest at elevations from 50 to 4,078 ft (15 to 1,243 m), which is governed by Myanmar's Forest Department.
The decision of the Zugdidi district administration from the local budget will come to 5,000 lari per month.
During the Japanese rule, the Japanese viewed Kaohsiung as a base to develop the southern region of Taiwan and started to deploy armies and set up warehouses there called the Fongshan Warehouse.
Safdie himself warned the city of this new tactic, stating that development projects in Toronto were being approved, then subsequently revised to provide a lower-quality, lower-cost development in place of an approved project.
Park Place (formerly Molson Park) is a power centre located in the south end of Barrie, Ontario, Canada.
A council levy also contributes over £1 million to the existing parks, although the Welsh Government pays back money to the councils.
Facilities in Thame not available in Haddenham include: monthly charter market, specialist shops, restaurants, leisure centre, swimming pool, bowls, secondary school, skate park, theatre, rugby and football stadia.
While usually associated with repurposed transportation infrastructure, some elevated parks are designed on top of buildings.
Urban beaches are often found along waterways, though some are inserted into town squares or other spaces far from water.
This combination of cultivated and native species creates a distinctive ecological and ornamental landscape, reflecting the natural vegetation of Monte Erice while enhancing biodiversity within the historic garden setting.
The garden now has over eighty genus of exotic plants introduced from southeast Asia, India, Japan, Mediterranean and the Americas.
There are two places in the United States called Village Green: Village Green-Green Ridge, Pennsylvania, and Village Green, New York.
Natural parks focus their attention on the conservation and maintenance of flora, fauna, and terrain.
At the beginning of the 19th century, the Sorgs, a clockmaker family, produced a very small wall clock (Sorg-Uhr).
Similarly, in the Early English period corbels were sometimes elaborately carved, as at Lincoln Cathedral, and sometimes more simply so.
A corbel is a solid piece of material in the wall, whereas a console is a piece applied to the structure.
In 2006 Karimpuzha was listed as a proposed Wildlife Sanctuary by the Ministry of Environment and Forests (India).
Some parks in the UK and elsewhere have a "Happy to Chat" bench, a bench with a sign on it with wording such as "Happy to chat bench.
The project, led by Vincenzo Giacalone and landscape architect Pietro Pio Pedone, focused on improving biodiversity, removing invasive species, and enhancing visitor accessibility.
List of beaches This list is only of urban beaches as defined above, open to the public on a free or admission basis.
The form and layout of Paxton's ornamental grounds, structured about an informal lake within the confines of a serpentine carriageway, put in place the essential elements of his much imitated design for Birkenhead Park.
Shukait was employed by the City of Lorain Parks Department as a mechanic and created the sculpture by weaving concrete.
The 7.7 hectares park was developed on an old rubber estate and features a hill with an open lawn, ideal for picnics.
A little further south a secondary gate was found, perhaps built at the same time as the reconstruction of the Porta Romana.
Physical and digital traces Beyond simple footpaths, desire lines refer to any traces of use or wear that indicate preferred methods of interaction.
After the late 1950s the focus of Alberta's parks policy began to shift from recreation to wilderness preservation.
Popular amongst joggers and cyclists, it is a gigantic park, recreation centre, fountains and a zoo, amongst other attractions.
The Baroque Garden served as a grand and public environment with a clear message, where all aspects were secondary to the overall design, in contrast to the Renaissance Garden, which sought to create intimate and isolated spaces.
In a number of cities, the square has no individual name and is officially designated Central Square, for example Central Square (Tolyatti).
See also Culinary Heritage of Switzerland Fruit brandy Himbeergeist Schnapps References == External links ==
The current canon of the good garden: a formal structure in combination with an informal planting, especially the perennials.
Medieval timber-framed buildings often employ jettying, where upper stories are cantilevered out on projecting wooden beams in a similar manner to corbelling.
Richness of a park’s nature is associated with its age and size, with the older ones having a larder variety of breeds and greenery.
The use of local pocket parks instead of more distant large urban parks reduces the traffic, pollution, and energy consumption associated with automobile travel and can allow larger parks to dedicate more space to uses beyond what a pocket park can offer, such as for large-scale natural habitats.
Established in 1917 by the City of Lorain, the park is divided into north and south sections by U.S.
The George Washington Memorial Parkway and the Clara Barton Parkway, running along the Potomac River near Washington, D.C., and Alexandria, Virginia, were also constructed during this era.
(In English: 300 years of the Black Forest Clock Industry) (de) Herbert Jüttemann: Die Schwarzwalduhr.
The European Association of Periurban Parks (FEDENATUR) is an association of natural, fluvial and agricultural parks located in metropolitan and periurban areas in Europe.
The second one (2009–2012) to analyse more deeply the characteristics of different periurban parks regarding management, social use and equipment.
They often underwent modifications over time and in some cases were changed to appartments or workshops, reducing the external doors.
Support has not dwindled, witness the commitment of 94% of 2,000 respondents to a survey in 2019 who said they would use the greenway when built, and a family bike ride to support it in 2024 that was attended by 400 riders.
Minnesota held a plebiscite in 1883 which created the independently-elected Minneapolis Park and Recreation Board.
Over the next ten years the Council continued to acquire sites for playgrounds, although only those playgrounds managed by the Playground Association were supervised, a practice which continues to this day.
In 1975 when the Department of Lands and Forests was dissolved, responsibly for parks, was transferred to the new Department of Recreation, Parks, and Wildlife.
Jackson Heights - Queens, New York For nearly nine decades, the historic neighborhood of Jackson Heights in Queens has maintained its fourteen block-long shared interior courtyards, and is considered to be the first "garden apartments" constructed in the United States.
Post-war parkways In Kentucky the term "parkway" designates a freeway in the Kentucky Parkway system, with nine built in the 1960s and 1970s.
Fort Nelson, built in 1781 by troops under George Rogers Clark including Captain Richard Chenoweth, was the second on-shore fort on the Ohio River in the area of what is now downtown Louisville, Kentucky.
In 2005, the Government of the Dadianis Palace Garden allocated 40 thousand lari for reconstruction.
This early approach to picnicking suffered the drawback that indoor dining furniture could not be carried far from the home and was often unsuited to outdoor use.
See also List of peaks on the Alberta–British Columbia border References External links "Mount Phillips".
Future In the coming years, the management of the gardens hopes to extend its property line on the island in order to start a farm that would be used to stock their on-island restaurant.
Management of the park's design and construction was given to royal engineer Reinaldo Manuel dos Santos, and construction lasted between 1764 and 1771.
The lower section from the confluence of the Waiti Stream near Tahora down to the Whakatane River was also previously known by the unofficial name Waimana River – only the higher section was called Tauranga River.
The fort was garrisoned until the building of Fort Finney across the river at the site of what is today Jeffersonville, Indiana about 1784.
In some states, such as Illinois, park districts are also authorized to have their own park police departments, independent of the other local police departments or state or national park police.
Contrary to "national parks" usually located far from densely populated urban areas and designed exclusively for preservation, the natural areas in periurban zones have to protect biodiversity while being frequented by a larger public.
The Camden Highline is a proposed elevated public park and greenway that will run from Camden Town to King's Cross, transforming a disused section of the North London Line and running alongside it.
Though wildlife corridors are also greenways, because they have conservation as their primary purpose, they are not necessarily managed as parks for recreational use, and may not include facilities such as public trails.
The pattern of land ownership has a significant influence on the current and future use of the land.
The north beach side is managed by the Lorain County Metro Parks and Lakeview Park South is managed by the City of Lorain.
An urban beach (also city beach and sometimes beach club) is an artificially-created environment in an urban setting which simulates a public beachfront, through the use of sand, beach umbrellas, and seating elements.
In May 2009 Zugdidi Chairman Otar Patsatsia, and Zugdidi Municipality MP Fridon Todua Alexander Kobalia made the decision to provide measures for heavy reconstruction in the Botanical Garden.
Located on Maharat Road, Phra Borom Maha Ratchawang Subdistrict, Phra Nakhon District behind the Grand Palace between Tha Tian (N8) and Tha Chang Wang Luang Pier (N9).
Roadways Commons are often crossed by unfenced public roads, and this leads to another problem on modern pasture commons where grazing survives (or is to be reintroduced).
Especially for public health perspective, the SOPARC could measure the level of physical activity occurring in a park, which then could calculate energy expenditure estimates for a park.
Location and access A neighborhood park should be centrally located, if possible, within its service area and should be uninterrupted by non-residential roads or other physical barriers.
Aasmund moved to the island due to poor health conditions and as his health improved, he started the garden.
1678), which was made into a country villa by the wealthy Amija merchant family in 1686, as it was then a bit outside of town.
For the individual competition, 50 berths were allocated as follows: 33 to the athletes who qualified from the teams above.
The northern apartment, which is larger, has another small room opening onto the entrance corridor, and a corridor in front of the reception room opposite the entrance.
The lake was described in 2007 as receiving "moderate to heavy" fishing pressure from the recreationally active people of southern Illinois and southeast Missouri.
Sépaq falls under the authority of the Minister of Développement durable, de l'Environnement et des Parcs (Sustainable development, Environment and Parks) and its head office is located in Quebec City.
Prominent environmentalists supporting the park include David Attenborough, Jane Goodall, Tim Flannery and Bob Brown.
Regular park maintenance, as well as programming and community involvement, can also contribute to a feeling of safety.
Ekaterina was enthusiastic about her work, and in a short time had stocked the garden with a great variety of native and exotic plants.
The gardens were designed in an English landscape style, featuring Mediterranean and exotic plants, paths bordered by Buxus sempervirens hedges, and areas of woodland.
Food Kirsch is used in some cakes, notably traditional German Schwarzwälder Kirschtorte (Black Forest gateau), Gugelhupf and Zuger Kirschtorte.
The concept first emerged with the need to minimize fragmentation of natural environments and was referred to as "patch and corridor." In modern landscape architecture, the park system is collaborating with the idea of planning greenways, which run through urban and rural areas.
The city began and Lorain County Metro Parks have continued the tradition of painting the Easter basket and added eggs to the basket for the Easter season.
The term ranger was also applied to a reorganization of the Fire Warden force in the Adirondack Park after 1899 when fires burned 80,000 acres (320 km2) in the park.
Parque Madrid Río (also in Arganzuela, Carabanchel, Centro, Usera, Latina and Villa de Vallecas); 121.1 ha.
Heritage listing Bedford Playground was listed on the Queensland Heritage Register on 9 May 1998 having satisfied the following criteria.
The Palisades Parkway was built to allow for a direct route from New York City to Harriman State Park.
These overlooks are often wooden decks, which minimize the impact on the land by reducing the need to disturb it for construction.
At the end of the 18th century, Jacob Herbstreith manufactured small wall clocks with plates in porcelain or brass (Jockele-Uhr).
In 87 BC Marius attacked the city in order to cut off the flow of trade to Rome, aided by his generals Cinna, Carbo and Sertorius, and captured the city and plundered it.
"Left-over" parcels of land that are undesirable for development are not generally desirable for neighborhood parks.
Continuing structural change In the 1970s, the advent of new plastic clock cases and quartz clockworks lead to serious restructuring.
For the individual competition there was a total of 75 berths allocated as follows: 55 from the above teams, 7 through regional competitions and 13 through the world rankings.
History Natural urban beaches by the sea have attracted both tourists and locals for a long time, such as the Copacabana of Rio, the central beach of San Sebastián, or the City Beach in Stralsund.
The council delegated the facilitation of the park’s delivery including management arrangements "working with landowners and other partners as necessary" to officers, in consultation with the local cabinet member for community services supervising.
Australians adopted the American ideal of front yards without fences to create "park-like" streets and suburb-wide efforts were undertaken to remove fences and thereby encourage good neighbourly relationships and discourage anti-social behaviour and crime.
The park known today was designed in 1745 by the Royal architect Carl Hårleman and originally included a botanical garden.
The word corbel comes from Old French and derives from the Latin corbellus, a diminutive of corvus ("raven"), which refers to the beak-like appearance.
A parklet may be thought of as permanent, but must be designed for quick and easy removal for emergencies or other reasons such as snow removal without damage to the curb or street.
Cut into the north western side of the outcrop is a winding and uneven concrete stair, the dimensions of which suggest that it was built for the use of children.
They are sketches of the principal personages and of the social details of various periods in the history of England rather than complete and comprehensive historical narratives.
Recreational greenways, featuring paths and trails of various kinds, often relatively long distance, based on natural corridors as well as canals, abandoned rail beds, and public rights-of-way.
In medieval architecture, the technique was used to support upper storeys or a parapet projecting forward from the wall plane, often to form machicolations (openings between corbels could be used to drop things onto attackers).
As of January 2024, funding is still being sought with construction not expected to begin until late 2025, and the first section potentially opening in early 2027.
Design and purpose Parklets are designed to provide a public place for passersby to relax and enjoy the atmosphere of the city around them, in places where either current urban parks are lacking or where the existing sidewalk width is not large enough to accommodate vibrant street life activities.
The proposed park contains a variety of flora and fauna, including 19 plant species listed in the Red Book of Ukraine, 37 regional rare species and 17 animal species found in the European Red List.
The concept was developed by regional community groups and forest ecologists and researchers from Australian National University and the University of Melbourne.
In 2007, the Chicago Department of Transportation started converting conventional alleys which were paved with asphalt into so called Green Alleys.
It flows generally north from its sources in Te Urewera, past the settlement of Waimana, to join the Whakatāne River just to the south-west of the town of Tāneatua.
The endangered Gurney's pitta (Hydrornis gurneyi) was rediscovered in the area of the proposed park in 2003.
Sépaq is organized into 3 divisions called "networks": Parcs Québec - manages 23 provincial parks ("national" parks, as they are called in Quebec) that are officially recognized as protected areas.
By providing safe options for people to walk and bike, Complete Streets can lead to fewer people driving in their cars, resulting in lowered automobile emissions.
The parks system expanded rapidly with 46 new parks established between 1951 and 1971, focused mostly on recreational campgrounds near lakes.
Definition A regional park can be a special park district covering a region crossing several jurisdiction boundaries, or a park system of a single jurisdiction, such as a province, county, or city.
The competition shortlist included the 2019 RIBA Stirling Prize contenders Feilden Fowles Architects; London-based Benedetti Architects; Southwark's We Made That with Hassell, Agence Ter of Paris; and US-based James Corner Field Operations, which led the team behind the High Line in New York City.
PITS claimed to have development rights purchased from Toronto Terminal Railway, over a significant area of the rail corridor.
Vauxhall was reserved for the upper classes: people of the low status classes, such as servants, were not admitted to the gardens even if they could pay the fee.
The small village of Car Colston in Nottinghamshire, England, has two village greens, totaling 29 acres (12 ha), and the village of Burton Leonard in North Yorkshire has three.
Monaco Street Parkway, in Denver, Colorado, is a parkway, part of the Denver Park and Parkway System, which was designed by architect S.R.
Background The section of what is now the North London line opened in 1850 by the East & West India Docks and Birmingham Junction Railway, with a new station at Camden Town opening at the same time on St Pancras Way.
History Lundagård was originally the name of the archbishop's fortress built in the early 12th century just north of Lund Cathedral.
Following is a list of protected areas where fossils are preserved, known as fossil parks or fossil reserves, worldwide by country.
The site is structured across multiple levels and accessed via a long staircase and a stone balustrade leading to an intermediate rectangular garden space.
Aasmund planted pine trees around the property line of the garden to protect his plants from the wind common to the fjords in this region.
For example, rubber paths and ramps replace sand pits and steps, and some features are placed at ground level.
9.1 percent of the surface area of Spain is protected, including 42 percent of the Canary Islands, 30.5 percent of Andalusia, and 21.51 percent of Catalonia, with lesser percentages in the other autonomous communities.
He sent Professor Sosnovski, to describe and account for trees and shrubs, fenced garden area of a living fence, cleaned and restored some of the alley, planted box-curbs and so forth.
In Germany, the restoration of the Renaissance garden at Heidelberg Castle (Hortus Palatinus) was planned, which was once hailed as the "eighth wonder of the world" and now showcases elements of an English landscape garden.
On April 3, 2008, the steel arch that was designed by Auburn High School students was put in at the park entrance.
Integration with other fixtures Picnic tables are often integrated with other park fixtures, such as shelters and barbecue grills, which may all be attached to a single picnic pad.
The project plans to be 0.75 miles (1.21 km) long, running from Camden Gardens to York Way to act as an alternative walking route between Camden Town and King's Cross.
Families getting their photographs taken by the basket at Easter time has become a Lorain tradition.
Following the Viennese Prater as the first public park, Napoleon III commissioned around 1850 the prefect of the Seine department, baron Georges-Eugène Haussmann to direct the renovation of Paris.
Cedar Lake is a 1,750-acre (7.0 km²) reservoir in southern Illinois, created by the damming of Cedar Creek, a tributary of the Big Muddy River, in 1974.
As a music venue, Molson Park saw events such as Edgefest and Vans Warped Tour, and acts including Beastie Boys, Rage Against the Machine, Aretha Franklin, Radiohead, Creed, 3 Doors Down, Pearl Jam, Neil Young, NOFX, and Oasis.
In an interview in 2004, he admitted to having paid police to carry out the raid, but when they later demanded more money he refused.
It will also help governments in developing and transition countries to assess realistic staffing needs and staffing strategies.
First and foremost was the provision of open space for the benefit of townspeople and local residents within an area that was being rapidly built up.
Karimpuzha National Park (Malayalam: കരിമ്പുഴ നാഷണൽ പാർക്ക്‌) is a 230 km² proposed National Park located at 11°16′30″N 76°25′25″E in the Nilgiri Hills area of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, in South India, IUCN category: PRO History Madras Forest Act came into force in 1882.
The 2009 National Household Travel Survey found that 39% of all trips in metropolitan areas are three miles or less and 17% of all trips are one mile or less.
The plan was met with acclaim in local and national media, and was likened to other similar city rail yard redevelopment projects in North America, such as Millennium Park in Chicago and Hudson Yards in New York City.
In New Zealand a marine reserve is an area which has a higher degree of legal protection than marine parks for conservation purposes.
It is named after the Forge Quarry and uses it, the Great Lakes Quarries, and the I&M Canal as water features.
National Association of State Park Directors is an organization dedicated to the preservation of state parks in the United States.
Duties, disciplines and specializations The duties of the modern park ranger are as varied and diverse as the parks where they serve and in recent years have become more highly specialized.
A garden is a planned space, usually outdoors, set aside for the cultivation, display, and enjoyment of plants and other forms of nature.
It would be part of the Alberta Provincial Parks system and governed by Alberta Tourism, Parks and Recreation under Alberta Environment and Parks.
Many also have living museum features, such as costumed staff, demonstrations of and short courses in historical craft-working, dramatic presentations (live-action mock combat, etc.), and other living history activities.
Zugdidi Botanical Garden (Georgian: ზუგდიდის ბოტანიკური ბაღი), Zugdidi branch of Central Botanical Garden administered by the Georgian Academy of Sciences; was built in the late 19th century by the prince of Samegrelo David Dadiani, near his residence.
None of these ventures achieved any success, but his numerous historical works are written with vivacity and interest, and, in their own style, are an important contribution to the history of England.
Basically all actions, interventions and projects that would be contrary to the purpose of conservation are prohibited.
Pepoli Turret (Torretta Pepoli): A neo-Gothic folly, originally created by Count Pepoli as a place for contemplation, set on a rocky platform to the east of the gardens.
This means that there would be a worldwide ranger deficit of 105,000 rangers in the developing and transition countries.
Three ONAs have been designated by Congress, Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse, Piedras Blancas Historic Light Station, and Yaquina Head, all of which protect lighthouses and the adjacent land.
Certainly the playgrounds established by the Playground Association foreshadowed a period of intense playground development in suburban Brisbane when a number were established by various groups, usually the city council or a local progress association.
Depending on the needs of the park where assigned, rangers may participate in high-angle rescue, swift-water rescue, may be certified scuba divers, and can become specially trained as helicopter pilots or crew members.
Parks commonly resemble savannas or open woodlands, the types of landscape that human beings find most relaxing.
Older children who play vigorous games must have places set aside especially for them, and, since play is a fundamental need, playgrounds should be provided for every child as much as schools.
Urban wilds are vital to species of migratory birds that have nested in a given area since prior to its urbanization.
The layout follows an informal, non-geometric design, with vegetation arranged to adapt to the natural topography.
Provisions Repealed enactments Section 23 of the act repealed 5 enactments, listed in the schedule to the act.
The top 35 riders of the third round progress to the 4th round, but only up to three riders per team (so if a country has four riders in the top 35, one of those is not allowed to compete for individual medals).
Rivals in producing high quality "Kirsch" is Switzerland and Alsace; the latter even has a kirschwasser route, and other quality cherry-production, German-speaking areas like South Tyrolia.
The bathhouse was rebuilt after the tornado, but went through massive renovations by the Lorain County Metro Parks in 2007 to become the Lakeview Park Bathhouse and Visitor Center.
The regulations stipulated minimum front yard "depth" for new houses and ensured home builders shunned the "tenement house evil" of New York City and London.
The first of which was in 1821, when King João VI ordered that the walls surrounding the Passeio be torn down and that the park be open to people of all classes.
History In 1965, the founders, Aasmund and Else Marie Bryn, bought a farmstead on the northern tip of the island and by 1995 their son Olav Bryn opened the family retreat to the public for garden tours along with a restaurant.
Urban beaches are not necessarily publicly owned, though they generally remain open to the public (sometimes with an admission fee).
Riders can tailor a test to their horses' strengths, as well as incorporate movements that are more difficult than those required in the Grand Prix or the Special (such as a pirouette in piaffe) in order to increase their scores.
Fort-on-Shore, the downriver and first on-shore fort, had proved to be insufficient barely three years after it was established.
Demolition work of the Passeio, including the park's trees and its famed cascade, began in 1879 and works lasted until 1886, when José Gregório da Rosa Araújo, Mayor of Lisbon, unveiled the new Avenida da Liberdade (Avenue of Liberty), the new central thoroughfare in Lisbon.
Houses connected with linear parks are more common in suburban and rural areas where space is much less in-demand.
Jayanti Sarovar is a man made lake in the center of Jubilee Park where an island called the Bat Island is located there.
The ancient texts of India refer to Mandala Vatikas that were dedicated to deities such as Ganesha, Durga, Lakshmi, Shiva, Kartikeya, to planets and even to constellations (Nakshatra Vana), so that individuals could meditate in these groves.
In 1984, the third platform to the station closed and the whole section from what is now the Camden Road West Junction to Camden Road East Junction was reduced from four to two tracks.
The top 20 riders in round 4 advance to round 5 (individual final round B), and ride another course.
John's), Newfoundland: a walkway system with linear parks Meewasin Trail, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan Parc linéaire de la rivière Saint-Charles, Québec City, Québec Parc Linéaire Le P'tit Train du Nord, Saint-Jérôme - Mont-Laurier, Quebec.
The Morristown Green dates from 1715 and has hosted events ranging from executions to clothing drives.
In 2011 the Union Square Business Improvement District installed the most ambitious parklet, a 2-block long installation along Powell Street near Union Square, funded by a corporate donation by Audi.
At Universitetsplatsen is Runstenskullen, a small height with a collection of Runestones created in 1868.
One French variety, Kirsch de Fougerolles, and two Swiss varieties, Zuger Kirsch and Rigi Kirsch, have been certified as appellation d'origine protégée (AOP).
The corbel arch and corbel vault use the technique systematically to make openings in walls and to form ceilings.
Opposition Opponents of the scheme include the groups Future Transport London, which is the London branch of Campaign for Better Transport, and Climate Emergency Camden.
Various features are proposed to be included such as an edible garden, a grandstand, a play area and wildlife habitats, as well as an architectural screen for trainspotting.
Neighborhood parks, which generally range in size up to 30 acres (120,000 m2), serve as a social and recreational focal points for neighborhoods and are the basic units of a park system.
The Vauxhall of Gothenburg was inaugurated 15 August 1773 with a concert in the gardens for a fee of 1 daler silver.
Flor og Fjære is open to the public Monday through Saturday during their season starting at the beginning of May until the end of September.
Fédération des Parcs naturels de Wallonie Regionale Landschappen Croatia In Croatia there is a total of eight national parks and twelve nature parks.
The corridor led to the medianum, open with windows along the street and with spaces separated by partitions at the end; at the opposite end was a larger reception room.
Monuments and historical markers The Easter Basket monument inside Lakeview Park was created by David Shukait in 1937.
Usera Parque Lineal del Manzanares (also in Puente de Vallecas); 97.3 ha in the municipality of Madrid.
