acquired certain Kerr assets, including factories, in 1992 and the Kerr brand of glass home canning jars was absorbed into Alltrista in 1996.
Product recalls 2014: contaminated meat In 2014, Nestle USA recalled 238,000 cases of its Hot Pockets because they may have contained meat from a massive recall of about 8.7 million pounds (3,900,000 kilograms) of meat from "diseased and unsound" animals.
Wine racks made of this material are normally used as ornamental pieces as they come in fluid shapes and can become real pieces of art.
The development of genetically modified food has led to one of the most persistent and divisive debates about mandatory labelling, which is one of the central topics in genetically modified food controversies.
The retort pouch construction varies from one application to another, as a liquid product needs different barrier properties than a dry product, and similarly an acidic product needs different chemical resistance than a basic product.
In 2018, Schanes, Dobernig and Gözet conducted a systematic review of household food waste practices and concluded that households face conflicts between good intentions to prevent food waste and preferences regarding taste, freshness, cleanliness and food safety.
The community garden won £1000 in funding from Aviva Community Fund in 2017, this was used for resources such as seeds to kickstart the growing of edible plants.
The allowable storage time for maize was found to decrease with an increase in mechanical damage (broken/cracked kernels).
In the United States, chains such as Dairy Queen, Carvel, and Tastee-Freez helped popularize soft-serve ice cream.
The user is supposed to search for the wines in his cellar on CellarTracker's database and then enter number of bottles and price (optional).
Anti-brown-bag law in New York, USA In 1967, it was stated that "brown-bagging is the genteel disguise ...
Sometimes called "green" milk jugs, they are not green in color, but rather are claimed to be environmentally friendly.
The tun is the approximate volume of a cylinder with both diameter and height of 42 in (110 cm), as the US gallon was originally a cylinder 7 by 6 in (180 by 150 mm) (diameter × height).
Sorbet (, ) is a frozen dessert made using ice combined with fruit juice, fruit purée, or other ingredients, such as wine, liqueur, or honey.
FOI also supports the country in achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), by promoting food sovereignty and implementing responsible patterns of production and consumption.
Aseptic carton Cartons for liquids can be fabricated from laminates of liquid packaging board (LPB), foil, and polyethylene.
Unlike traditional Nalgene containers, this item can be damaged and potentially ruined by filling it with very hot water.
In 2010 BirdsEye Iglo Group purchased the Italian frozen food business Compagnia Surgelati Italiana SPA from Unilever for €0.8bn, and reunited the Findus brand in Sweden into the group that had previously been managed as one business under Unilever until 2006.
It is traditionally woven by hand and may involve additional physical support from other people, which usually comprise other family members or neighbours.
Production Industrial production of HDPE from ethylene happens through either Ziegler-Natta polymerization or the Phillips slurry process.
History Multilayer packaging was developed in the mid-20th century to overcome the performance limits of single-layer materials.
India Milk bags are commonplace in India, with an estimated 30% of milk sold in the country being packaged this way.
Blackstone Group and BC Partners made an unsuccessful bid of €2.5bn to buy Iglo from Permira in 2012.
With the advent of such facilities close to production areas, harvested fruits and vegetables could be preserved by freezing rather than by canning.
They may have either batter or breadcrumbs around the outside as casing, although the coating is normally breadcrumbs.
Polystyrene copolymers are also produced; these contain one or more other monomers in addition to styrene.
According to legend, it was made to contain the oil presented by the Virgin Mary to St Thomas of Canterbury.
Two principal types of amphorae existed: the neck amphora, in which the neck and body meet at a sharp angle; and the one-piece amphora, in which the neck and body form a continuous curve upwards.
An oenochoe, also spelled oinochoe (Ancient Greek: οἰνοχόη; from Ancient Greek: οἶνος, oînos, "wine", and Ancient Greek: χέω, khéō, lit.
The almonds are white for a wedding, First Communion or Confirmation; pink or light-blue for the birthday or baptism of a girl or boy; red for a graduation; and silver or gold for 25 or 50 year anniversaries.
Rationing during World War II forced her to cut back production due to the restricted availability of quality ingredients.
The service was broadcast on several national news networks and was attended by President Bill Clinton, Vice President Al Gore, Senator Ted Kennedy and Senator John Kerry (who flew non-stop from Burma, where he had been attending a diplomatic function).
Location After the dissolution of the monasteries, the buttery in large houses and colleges became a place for barrels, bottles, or butts of alcoholic drink, and from which they were brought up and served into the Great Hall.
Among these ingredients are white truffles from Alba, located in the Piedmont region of Italy, a place known as the premier origin of some of the most carefully cultivated and highly sought-after white truffles in the world.
In 1991 it entered the Athens Stock Exchange and in 1994 it was by bought by Delta dairy company (Daskalopoulos).
As late as the mid-17th century, French vintners did not use cork stoppers, using instead oil-soaked rags stuffed into the necks of bottles.
Programs Leket to Table: Meal Rescue Leket Israel rescues surplus hot meals and prepared food from 300 suppliers including hotels, army bases, corporate cafeterias, and others, providing a crucial daily source of nutrition to thousands of Israel’s needy.
Baines-Mosier Cabinet Company of Allegan, Michigan, was established in 1906, and had 24 employees in 1915.
However, Alexis Lichine says that low humidity can be a problem because it may cause organic corks to dry prematurely.
In 1803, furniture designer Thomas Sheraton described the piece as: "Cellaret, amongst cabinet makers, denotes a convenience for wine, or wine cistern.
For example, they can contribute up to 40% by weight to intravenous medical bags and up to 80% by weight in medical tubing.
In 1941 this company was acquired by the confectionery manufacturer Freja Marabou and was subsequently renamed Findus Canning Factory.
Because the sleeve prevented use of the weapon's regular sling some troops fashioned ad-hoc slings from rope that could be used over the Pliofilm.
A variety with a sweet cheese filling is served as a starter or main dish in dairy meals, specifically on Shavuot.
Recent studies have shown that bruchids sealed in PICS bags do not die from asphyxiation, but rather from dehydration.
After slaughter, care must be taken not to infect the meat through contact with any of the various sources of infection in the abattoir, notably the hides and soil adhering to them, water used for washing and cleaning, the dressing implements and the slaughterhouse personnel.
See also List of ice cream brands References External links Official website Guild of Fine Food video reviewing the product
See also Dabbawala Lunch box Sagejū, historical Japanese picnic container set to carry bento The Lunchbox (2013 Indian film) References Bibliography J.
Whipped cream is often used for frosting, as a complement to the two other textures, and because many typical frostings will not adhere successfully to frozen cake.
Criminal charges Involuntary manslaughter charges against Levesque and Barnes were initially dismissed, reinstated on appeal, and finally dismissed in January 2010.
Production of Pliofilm was hampered during World War II because the Japanese occupation of much of Southeast Asia cut off much of the rubber supply.
However, Linda Jones Roccos suggests that the maidens wearing both peplos and mantle implies they are kanephoroi, which would be consistent with the evidence of contemporary vase painting and wedding iconography.
This gradual degradation is desirable for a support structure, because it gradually transfers the load to the body (e.g., to the bone) as that area heals.
After taking apart the device, venture capitalist Ben Einstein considered the press to be "an incredibly complicated piece of engineering", which likely arose from a lack of cost constraints during the design process.
Praeger created the California Veggie Burger, which contains carrots, spinach, peas, edamame, and oat bran.
Totino's was founded as a restaurant in the 1950s in Minneapolis, Minnesota, which expanded to frozen foods in the 1960s.
Depending on the need, this paperboard can be waxed or coated with polyethylene to form a moisture barrier.
The Bocksbeutel (German: [ˈbɔksˌbɔɪ̯tl̩] ) is a type of wine bottle with the form of a flattened ellipsoid.
In another myth, the cornucopia was created when Heracles (Roman Hercules) wrestled with the river god Achelous and ripped off one of his horns; river gods were sometimes depicted as horned.
The first baleen (suqqaq, qupitalik, savigaaq in Iñupiaq) basket (aguummak, aguummaq in Iñupiaq) was made at Utqiagvik after the termination of commercial whaling.
These paper and plastic containers are lighter, cheaper and safer to both manufacture and ship to consumers.
Men of wealth had as many as three cellarettes at a time as a status symbol, not necessarily indicating one was a heavy drinker.
Timeline 1992: Weight Watchers Smart Ones line launched as a sub-brand of Weight Watchers® frozen meals.
In Arab countries they are called safartas (سفرطاس, from Turkish "sefer tası" meaning 'travel bowls').
However, the CIVC still recommends storing Champagne on its side, stating that: Champagne is ready for drinking upon release, matured to perfection in the producer’s cellars.
After the Korean War, with the introduction of condensed milk, syrup, and chocolate from the United States, together with the mass migration of Korean immigrants who brought their culinary cuisine to the US, Korean bingsu began to be more diverse.
Due to its porosity, fired earthenware, with a water absorption of 5-8%, must be glazed to be watertight.
Food safety regulations limit the amount of pathogens such as Listeria to safe limits (100 CFU/g in Europe).
Health concern Plastic materials are widely used in the food industry due to their low price and convenience; however, there has been an increased health concern because of the possibility of releasing undesirable chemicals from plastic materials into food products.
Feeding Hong Kong is regarded as a food recycling operations, rather than a welfare group, so it does not receive public funding and relied on help from volunteers and donors.
Initial Uno Express locations were inside BJ's Wholesale Club stores, by 2012 all had closed and converted to Dunkin' Donuts or Subway locations.
In the Book of Judges, Gideon gives empty pitchers containing lamps to three hundred men divided into three companies.
Medical use Thermal pharmaceutical bags are designed to transport temperature-sensitive medications, protecting them from damaging temperatures, shocks, and light.
Environmental issues Foam takeout containers entirely made out of polystyrene foam affect the environment as they do not biodegrade easily.
The packaging consists of a natural soft membrane (made from food particles, alginate/chitosan, and nutritive ions) that encloses the food or drink, optionally protected by a hard shell that is edible or biodegradable.
As early as 1908, the Chico Ice and Cold Storage company in California began to offer rental locker space.
In 2007, the site of the first Lender's bagel bakery was dedicated as a playground; it was named after one of Harry Lender's sons: “Murray Lender Playground”.
Scientific workflow systems assist scientists and programmers with tracking their data through all transformations, analyses, and interpretations.
In Canada, the brand Le Sieur has been used since at least 1964, instead of Le Sueur – presumably to avoid the implications of the French word sueur (i.e., "sweat").
The role was given to a virgin selected from amongst the aristocratic or Eupatrid families of Athens whose purity and youth was thought essential to ensure a successful sacrifice.
Some believe this re-bottling exposes the champagne to greater oxidation and therefore results in an inferior product compared to champagne which remains in the bottle in which it was fermented.
In side-by-side comparisons for white wines, one panel had shown preference for non-corked wines at the level of 20 ng/L of TCA, while another study found the "rejection threshold" to be between 3.1 and 3.7 ng/L.
During the Tang dynasty, ewers fashioned from glazed earthenware bore illustrations of Persian textiles and metalwork and depicted increased cultural diversity in populated Chinese cities.
In the 1990s, Russia started importing foreign brands of ice cream, and the state standards were dropped.
History Gastronorm originated in Switzerland during the 1960s when various associations gathered and agreed on standard dimensions for movable kitchen inserts and containers such as pans, trays, wire racks as well as other kitchen utensils and equipment.
One Sam's Club store reported fitting 224 square gallon jugs in an area that only held 80 traditional one gallon jugs.
In 2021 Iron Gate launched Canada's first auction dedicated to wine and spirits and as of YE2022 became the largest wine auction in the country with auctions frequently hammering over $1,000,000 per sale.
Form While the term "olive jar" was used in archaeology from early in the 20th century, John Mann Goggin created the first typology for olive jars in the mid-20th century.
Availability Fowler's Vacola products are still produced by the original Fowlers Vacola company, and are available from some hardware stores, and directly from the company via their online store.
Bear canisters are seeing increased popularity in areas where bears have become habituated to human presence, and are required in some places, such as Yosemite National Park in the United States.
TCA is studied in detail and considered to be the main source of the issue (in some surveys, the TCA was present in all the bottles assessed to be tainted).
The dessert takes the form of a ball that is composed of two or more flavors of gelato, often with melted chocolate inserted into the center (following the original recipe) or alternatively, with either fruit syrup or frozen fruit—typically raspberry, strawberry or cherry—in the center.
Another myth suggests that Charles I of England was so impressed by the "frozen snow" that he offered his own ice cream maker a lifetime pension in return for keeping the formula secret, so that ice cream could be a royal prerogative.
The oldest known document containing an image of an hórreo is the Cantigas de Santa Maria (song CLXXXVII) written during the reign of Alfonso X of Castile in the 13th century.
In other countries Taiwan The bento made its way to Taiwan in the first half of the 20th century during the Japanese colonial period and remains popular to the present day.
Among Agnes Blackwell Herrick's papers was a copy of the Paris Embassy's Dinner Party Record from 1921 to 1922.
With one hand on the outside and one on the inside, the potter's hands would press together and form the upward curve of the hydria.
In areas where grain has always been sold immediately after harvest, storage areas may not exist for PICS bags.
The wine-storage area of the buttery, in keeping with the higher value of its contents, was often more richly decorated to reflect the higher status of its function.
One jar from those wrecks, containing pitch, had a thin piece of leather placed over the opening with a cork stopper inserted over it, so that the leather may have acted as a gasket.
Wine bottles are traditionally sealed with a cork, but screw-top caps are becoming popular, and there are several other methods used to seal a bottle.
See also Frozen food Canned food Cold chain References External links How Frozen Vegetables are Made
Disposable containers are often made of paper or paperboard, plastic (including plastic foam), or aluminum.
Route 169 an enormous wooden sign of the Jolly Green Giant, along with the Little Green Sprout, is visible with the caption "Welcome to the Valley." Sixty miles (97 km) further south on US 169, in the city of Blue Earth, Minnesota, stands a 55-foot (17 m) fiberglass statue of the Jolly Green Giant.
From the same source come the German Krapfen ("deep-fried pastry") and its East Central German dialectal variant Kräppel, as well the Silesian Krepel ("doughnut").
They continued to be used through the first half of the 20th century; however, usage began to decline with the introduction of free-flowing salt in 1911, and they have been almost entirely replaced by salt shakers.
Losses are still fairly high with this technique, though it has been shown in some instances to keep tubers for 2–4 months.
The USDA lists the cutoffs for broken maize as anything that falls through a 12/64 round-hole sieve, and broken soybeans as anything that falls through an 8/64 round-hole sieve.
The bonding together of the fibres during production improves not only the strength, porosity and elasticity, but also the tear-resistance.
In 1921, the Eskimo Pie chocolate bar was invented in Iowa by a pharmacy owner named Chris Nelson, who was inspired by a boy named Douglas Ressenden who could not decide between candy and ice cream; a patent was awarded in 1922, but invalidated in 1928.
Modern innovations in the United States Congregations and synods belonging to the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America have made Easter baskets to be given to needy children or elderly persons.
Beginning around 8500 BC, however, they were moved inside houses, and by 7500 BC special rooms were used for storage.
Machines for producing these do not require a pressure chamber, and as a result, they are much cheaper and easier to maintain due to their simpler mechanics.
The interior diameter of an average small qullqa was 3.23 metres (10.6 ft); larger qullqas have a diameter of around 3.5–4.0 metres (11.5–13.1 ft).
Security researchers are interested in data provenance because it can analyze suspicious data and make large opaque systems transparent.
Over the years King of Pops has made almost 500 flavors, most of which are between three and five ingredients.
Swanson (1879–1949) was a Swedish immigrant who worked on a farm in Blair, Nebraska, until he moved to Omaha.
Moisture control Grain must be kept away from moisture for as long as possible to preserve it in good condition and prevent mold growth.
Other non-luxury ingredients include milk, sugar, egg yolk, rice and rice malt, black truffle, brewed alcohol, cashew nuts and unspecified dairy products.
Recently the bottle has become a standard unit of volume to describe sales in the wine industry, measuring 750 millilitres (26.40 imp fl oz; 25.36 US fl oz).
The statue was first unveiled in 1978 and was set on its permanent base on July 6, 1979, at 43°39′02″N 94°5′46″W.
Many have survived, some being renovated to commemorate the practice, while others have been dismantled or left to decay.
Measuring Broken/Cracked Kernels There are many methods available for determining mechanical grain damage.
Business development By 2001 the retail value of the brand was over £50 million and it had become one of the top 100 brands in Britain.
In 2004 a joint Swedish-Danish research team found a statistical association between allergies in children and indoor air levels of DEHP and BBzP (butyl benzyl phthalate), which is used in vinyl flooring.
Some stands remain in the countryside as historical features, but most have been dismantled or left to decay.
An innovative picnic hamper advertised for American families in 1953 was designed to clamp over the seat at the back of the family car.
Manufacturers claim that this rectangular design has cut water use by 67% to 70%, according to one dairy, since there are no crates to be cleaned; the absence of dirty crates also reduces the risk of jugs carrying contamination.
The British dominated the world shipping industry and began fitting their ships for cold air containers, and built new refrigerated steamers.
The circular interior of the game larder at Holkham Hall in Norfolk is lined with alabaster; designed by Samuel Wyatt, the octagonal building dates from 1803.
There is also a translation into Koine Greek known as the Septuagint, made in the last few centuries BCE.
Up until this point, frozen salads had existed, but they were only readily available to those who could afford and host large salt and ice freezers and to those who could visit the expensive hotels and restaurants that would serve them.
1 July 2002, https://www.ift.org/news-and-publications/food-technology-magazine/issues/2002/july/features/the-paper-beverage-carton-past-and-future.
Dip & Squeeze is the brand name of a type of packaging for tomato ketchup used by Heinz Tomato Ketchup.
Commercial food logistics Grain and beans are stored in tall grain elevators, almost always at a railhead near the point of production.
The dough is allowed to ferment for a few days, before part of the dough is cooked and then mixed with uncooked dough.
Operation Most of the goods in the storehouse are purchased with fast offering funds or produced on church-owned agricultural property.
In January 2025, the corporate About Us page claimed locations in Honduras and Qatar but listed foreign locations only in Saudi Arabia and India.
A Chick-Fil-A executive said that some consumers at the chain were hoarding the packets after they were introduced.
It could be made thinner by stretching whilst being heated and thicknesses of 0.00075–0.025 inches (0.019–0.635 mm) were sold.
This is causing the paper to elongate 4% in machine direction and 10% in cross direction before busting.
Lean Cuisine is a brand of frozen entrées and dinners sold in the United States by Nestlé Prepared Foods, in Canada by Nestlé Canada, and in Australia by Vesco (under a licensing agreement with Nestlé).
Similarly, the development of Sheffield plate (18th century), then electroplating (19th century), led to mass production of affordable silver-plated wares, including salt cellars.
Infestation by insects such as the maize weevil can sometimes be easier to identify visually, but difficult to quantify on a large scale.
Solar direct-drive refrigerators don't require batteries, instead using thermal energy to solar power.
834/2007 of 28 June 2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011 — on the provision of food information to consumers.
An octagonal room was constructed for a wine library and a round domed room was added in the complex's center.
With flexible packaging (plastic films, foils, laminates, etc), the choice of materials and process conditions are an important decision for packaging engineers.
In the late 2010s, during a period of long stretches of dry weather" on the Island, potato growers in the area around Spring Valley, Prince Edward Island began to construct large holding ponds of water "seeking to improve potato yields".
Pliny identified three different types of coopers: ordinary coopers, wine coopers and coopers who made large casks.
In February 2011, Green Mountain announced an agreement with Dunkin' Donuts to make Dunkin’ Donuts coffee available in single-serve K-Cup pods for use with Keurig Single-Cup Brewers.
Many different varieties of frozen and chilled ready meals are now generally available in the UK, including "gourmet" recipes, organic and vegetarian dishes, traditional British and foreign cuisine, and smaller children's meals.
Wafer ice cream vendors also sell the same blocks of ice cream on slices of multicoloured bread, on cones or in cups instead of sandwiched between wafers.
Revival efforts by Indian Railways and criticism In 2004, the Indian Railways (then under the leadership of minister Laloo Prasad Yadav) attempted to revive the use of kulhars for tea and other beverages sold at railway stations and aboard trains.
Memorials A memorial service and procession for the firefighters were held in Worcester's Centrum Centre on December 9, 1999.
GrapeStories relied on the same database as CellarTracker, but was intended to be a more user-friendly approach to tracking wine and sharing wine experiences as well as providing a better interface.
In its final form, the thin cork liner created a gas-tight seal, while the metal cap held it in place with a series of crimped "flutes" that locked under the bottle's head.
History While ice cream sandwiches have been sold in New York City since the 1890s, New York lawyer Richard LaMotta created the Chipwich in 1978.
The Gatt agreements signed in Marrakesh in 1994 required the EU to reduce its export aid, and Doux lost half its export market.
History Poire belle Hélène was invented around 1864 by Auguste Escoffier, who created it as a tribute to the popularity of Offenbach’s operetta La belle Hélène.
The technology is the result of a project that started in 1997 and staffed by a team of 55 researchers with a budget cost of 15 billion won (US$49.2 million).
The pitcher of Marwan Ibn Mohammad, on display at the Museum of Islamic Art in Cairo, predates the 8th century.
Steel cans also extend the product's shelf-life, allowing longer sell-by and use-by dates and reducing waste.
Often, it is made of jute and has a content of 60 kilograms (130 pounds); this type of bag originated in Brazil and became a worldwide standard.
Medical use Some studies have suggested that wrapping premature babies in plastic wrap immediately after birth may help prevent low temperature before arrival to the neonatal intensive care unit.
As the volume is reduced during the reaction (PVC is denser than VCM), water is continually added to the mixture to maintain the suspension.
History The company started from a small factory on Balakong Road, Selangor with only 5 workers, producing a wide range of ice cream such as ice cream sticks, ice cream in cups, ice cream in cones, ice cream in tubs and ice cream with wafers but only limited to Malaysia during that time.
An 1897 recipe published in The Boston Cooking-School Cook Book by American writer Fannie Farmer was a pineapple–chestnut ice cream with candied fruit and raisins, served with maraschino syrup.
Variations are countless, but ice cream, flan, and fruit in syrup (peach or pineapple) are its staple ingredients.
Commercial heat sources for self-heating food packaging use an exothermic (heat releasing) reaction, for which there are several common formulations.
Together, FOI, along with its donors and volunteers, has distributed 1,246 tons or 88,095 food packages to FOI clients, including children, victims of natural disasters, the elderly, informal workers, and others.
Instead, it is the information contained within the label that can provide consumers with such knowledge.
The screens passage generally had two or three doors on the side opposite its entrances into the Great Hall, which led, respectively, to the buttery, kitchen, and pantry, each of which formed separate household departments.
The simple purpose of the stand was to facilitate collection of milk churns by cart or lorry and so were built at a convenient height for easy transfer.
ConAgra sells a broad array of dishes through its Healthy Choice brand, including frozen dinners, side dishes, cold cuts and other meats, canned soups, ice cream, bread, pasta sauce, and popcorn.
Name variations In Canada, corn dogs are often called "Pogos" after the popular brand produced by Conagra.
Busto-Zapico In a paper published in 2020, Miguel Busto-Zapico analysed 40 jars found in Spain, all made in Seville.
Development and delays When Grepper launched the Kickstarter campaign for the Coolest, the company planned to deliver to backers their Coolest reward in February 2015.
However, the problem with an icebox was that the cabinet housing was large, but the actual refrigerated space was relatively small.
Charitable hamper There is a long tradition of community and social philanthropy and charity related to hampers, in which persons or community groups donate to needy people a hamper of food, clothing, toiletries, cleaning products, or other household necessities, to assist with their family economy.
The side branches mean that its molecules are less tightly packed and less crystalline, and therefore its density is lower.
Most champagne houses are unable to carry out secondary fermentation in bottles larger than a magnum due to the difficulty in riddling large, heavy bottles.
Sweeteners, flavorings, and colorings are then mixed in, and the yogurt mixture is cooled at a temperature of −6 to −2 °C (28 °F).
Jeremiah 24 is a part of the Eighth prophecy (Jeremiah 21-24) in the section of Prophecies of Destruction (Jeremiah 1-25).
The average weight of an empty 750 mL wine bottle is 500 g (and can range from 300 to 900 g), which makes the glass 40% of the total weight of the full bottle.
According to estimates from the Aluminum Association, a large amount of aluminium remains unrecycled in the US, where roughly $700 million worth of cans end up in landfills each year.
When a stream of water is injected into the bottle and impacts the punt, it is distributed throughout the bottom of the bottle and removes residues.
It allows the sterile packaging of a wide variety of food and drink handled by aseptic processing and is used as an alternative to traditional industrial canning methods.
This would reduce the cost of transportation and its carbon footprint, and provide a local market for recycled green glass.
Other artistic depictions were provided by Botticelli (Banchetto per Nastagio degli Onesti) and Ghirlandaio (Buonomini di San Martino and The Birth of John the Baptist).
This is a common approach in industrial food production, but concerns about health hazards associated with trans fats have led to their strict control in several jurisdictions.
Purpose A 1852 publication lists other produce being sold in punnets in British markets, including sea kale, mushrooms, small salad and tomatoes.
They are born within social contexts of poverty and unemployment, as subsistence organizations or "popular micro-associations that developed to satisfy a basic and functional need", hunger.
Incineration: PLA can be incinerated without producing chlorine-containing chemicals or heavy metals because it contains only carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen atoms.
On August 28, 2006, it was confirmed that Unilever had agreed to the sale of the UK brand, held since the late 1930s, to private equity house Permira for £1.2bn.
See also Internet of things – Internet-like structure connecting everyday physical objects Value proposition – Promise of value to be delivered, communicated, and acknowledged References External links Official website at the Wayback Machine (archived 2017-08-24)
The preforms can be transported and stored by the thousand in a much smaller space than would finished containers, for the second stage to be carried out on the user site on a 'just in time' basis.
Direct contact freezing puts the product directly in contact with the refrigerant, while indirect contact freezing uses a plate in between.
They chopped up the slivers, added flour and seasoning, then pushed the mash through holes and sliced off pieces of the extruded mixture.
On June 1, 2023, Tupperware stopped supplying an independent sales force in the UK and Ireland and moved fully to selling online and via the shopping TV channel Ideal World, shortly before Ideal World itself went out of business in early July 2023.
See also Fly fishing Weaving (mythology) Basket weaving Lobster pot References External links Northumbria Basketry Group Decorate A Wicker Clothes Basket The dictionary definition of creel at Wiktionary: for its etymology
It is based on a recipe introduced in 1839 by the cook of a German nobleman, Prince Hermann Ludwig Heinrich von Pückler-Muskau.
In July, the city council unanimously approved a temporary moratorium to permit Little Free Libraries on private property.
1998: Heinz consolidates the Weight Watchers frozen meals under the Weight Watchers® Smart Ones® brand name.
In Okinawa, Japan, where awamori is made, the traditional system similar to the solera is called shitsugi.
CaAlg2 + 2NaCl → 2NaAlg + CaCl2 Because it is a single-strand polymer, alginate can be depolymerized (broken into smaller units) by a variety of chemical reactions.
The concept of a food container has existed for a long time, but it was not until people began using tobacco tins to carry meals in the early 20th century, followed by the use of lithographed images on metal, that the containers became a staple of youth, and a marketable product.
The Food Standards Agency was reported as supporting the change, provided the food had been stored correctly up to that time.
See also Corrugated box Tetra Pak Elopak Notes References Yam, K.L., "Encyclopedia of Packaging Technology", John Wiley & Sons, 2009, ISBN 978-0-470-08704-6 The Paper Beverage Carton: Past and Future.
In his autobiography, The Time of My Life, Hedberg recounts how Wyman was receptive to the idea – on the condition that funds for the project were raised locally, and that the company had to give approval to the final design.
The main ingredient of bingsu was natural ice in the past, but later, artificial ice was produced, and high-quality sweeteners were developed.
All DVD releases can be purchased on the Cartoon Network Shop, and the individual episodes can be downloaded from both the iTunes Store and Amazon.com.
Additionally, in Australia the term "silverpillow" is used to refer to the habit of inflating the empty bag and using it as a headrest.
The proposed idea of a smart fridge that could keep track of its contents with "a bar-code reader within the fridge" had become popular in various technology newspapers.
Creels in Scotland The word creel is also used in Scotland to refer to a device used to catch lobsters and other crustaceans.
However, it is normal for meat to lose 1–2 percent of its weight due to this liquid loss, while anything more is considered excessive.
Hoosier Cabinet First developed in the early 1900s by the Hoosier Manufacturing Company in New Castle, Indiana, and popular into the 1930s, the Hoosier cabinet and its many imitators soon became an essential fixture in American kitchens.
In India some company brands like Hindustan Unilever sell frozen dessert made from vegetable oils rather than pure milk.
The court ruled that Mason's delay in protecting his patent indicated he had abandoned his invention in the intervening years between 1859 and 1868 and had forfeited his patent.
Campaigns Love For Planet Campaign By recycling the collected airtight containers, 'upcycling eco-bag' was introduced to practice continuous resource circulation.
The defining characteristic of a Ramly Burger is the patty itself wrapped in an omelette and topped with several condiments, which may include ketchup, mayonnaise, chili sauce, Maggi seasoning, and/or Worcestershire sauce, depending on the vendor.
The building was constructed for $100,000 (equivalent to $3,600,000 in 2025) and could store 500 train-car loads of perishable items at temperatures between 10 and 60 °F (−12 and 16 °C).
"Nova sloga" has the exclusive rights to exploit water in the field Mivela in Veluće, eight kilometers from Trstenik on an area of 4,125 square kilometers.
Milton was employed as an engineer at Dairy Farmers when the company asked him to develop a new crate to replace the existing wire and wooden designs, which were prone to bending and breaking, damaging glass bottles and interrupting automated handling lines.
Procopio obtained French citizenship, and a royal license from Louis XIV, making him the sole producer of the frozen dessert in the kingdom.
Bol shared his idea with his partner, Rick Brooks, and together they built and installed more of the bookhouses in different areas of the Midwestern United States.
In addition to purchasing food equipment, Mikoyan brought many food recipes from the United States, one of which was ice cream.
History Its first mentions come from Ancient Greece, where, in parties called Bacchanalia, dedicated to the god Bacchus by the vintage of this drink, the sacrifice of the goat was offered, following which the wineskin could be made that would conserve the wine.
Translation, introduction and commentary, Johns Hopkins University Press, Baltimore and London, 1983.
It has a light, airy texture likened to mousse or light cake that is created by whipping air into the mixture before freezing.
In many restaurants, it is a station which is generally an entry-level cooking position within a restaurant, as it often involves preparing salads or other smaller plates which can be heated and quickly plated without significant experience.
For instance, suppose the solera consists of three barrels of wine, and half of each barrel is transferred once a year.
Earlier, the Coppes brothers had a sawmill business, a box manufacturing factory, and a furniture manufacturing company.
It is much stronger and lighter than common plaster-of-Paris ornaments, and is not so liable to chip or break if struck with anything.
Older unused lids should be discarded, as sealing compound is only good for about five years from date of manufacture.
Most wine bottles standards have a bore (inner neck) diameter of 18.5 mm at the mouth of the bottle and increase to 21 mm before expanding into the full bottle.
History Juicero was founded in San Francisco, California, in 2013 by Doug Evans, who served as CEO until October 2016, when former president of Coca-Cola North America Jeff Dunn took over the position.
Points are added for "healthy" nutrients including fibre, protein and fruit, vegetable, nut and legume content; whilst points are deducted for "unhealthy" nutrients: energy, saturated fat, sodium and sugar.
In addition, the batteries require maintenance, must be replaced approximately every three years, and must be disposed of as hazardous wastes possibly resulting in lead pollution.
The company exports over 50% of its products to more than 70 countries, with key markets in the Middle East, the European Union, and Africa, with over 25 logistics hubs in Ukraine and abroad.
The first, "Food Chain", was helmed by noted Japanese animator Masaaki Yuasa, and was entirely animated by Yuasa's own studio.
These products differ from prepackaged dehydrated noodles in a number of ways: in flavor, in texture, and in that they normally come packaged with ingredients besides the noodles, such as vegetables, meat, and soup stock.
The most exotic designs were produced in the early years of the 20th century, just prior to the First World War.
As of 2022, Newell manufactures canning jars under the brand names Ball, Bernardin, Golden Harvest, and Kerr.
At the same time, the Bordeaux-style bottle (bordolese) was becoming more popular among wine producers, displacing the fiasco.
Note that a 252-gallon tun of wine has a mass of approximately 2,060 lb (930 kg), between a short ton (2,000 lb (910 kg)) and a long ton (2,240 lb (1,020 kg)).
Catalonia In certain areas of the Pyrenees in Catalonia a type of olla, known locally as tupí, is used as container for the preparation of tupí, a certain type of cheese.
It is commonly made of metal or plastic, is reasonably airtight and often has a handle for carrying.
Scholars have noted that as food systems scaled up and grew more impersonal, regulators across regions—from Europe and North America to East Asia—began using labels to simulate the trust once derived from local, interpersonal food markets.
Food insecure individuals, who live in low-income communities experience higher rates of chronic disease, leading to healthcare costs which create more financial hardships.
The game larder at Abbotsford House in Selkirkshire, built by John Smith of Darnick in 1851, takes the form of a circular castle, with crenellations.
The brand name "Lean Cuisine" is considered by the FDA as a nutrient content claim, so all Lean Cuisine items are required to meet the "lean" criteria of less than 10 g fat, 4.5 g or less saturated fat, and less than 95 mg cholesterol.
Still named the Wooster Company, the new group began to produce rubber household products under the Rubbermaid brand name.
Toppings were then added, and three types of tapioca pearls: glass pearls for crunchiness, Thai tea pearls for color and aroma, and black tea pearls for texture and sweetness.
Frozen yogurt (also known as frogurt or by the tradename Froyo; ) is a frozen dessert made with yogurt and sometimes other dairy and non-dairy products.
The combination of flavors varies; Anna Hezel, writing for Bon Appétit, describes a combination of orange, lime, and raspberry, while Baskin-Robbins sells a version with orange, raspberry, and pineapple.
Carl von Linde, an engineering professor at the Technological University Munich in Germany, patented an improved method of liquefying gases in 1876, creating the first reliable and efficient compressed-ammonia refrigerator.
History Bingsu has similar origins to sorbet, with fruit- and milk-flavored ice-based confectionary documented as far back as 400 BCE.
One inch (2.5 cm) of gravel covering the floor periodically sprinkled with a little water was recommended to retain the desired humidity.
The Central Warehouse is a former refrigeration warehouse building in North Albany, a neighborhood of Albany, New York, and considered a landmark of the community and city.
Europe In the United Kingdom, Ross Frozen Foods once produced "Oven Crunchies", although generic versions remain widely available.
Once the full churns had been removed they were replaced by the haulier with empty ones for refilling by the next collection time.
Glass is a relatively heavy packing material and wine bottles use quite thick glass, so the tare weight of a full wine bottle is a relatively high proportion of its gross weight.
To counter the shortcomings of the 1971 law, the VDP nowadays classifies the best vineyards by its own rules into 'VDP.Grosse Lage' (Grand cru) and 'VDP.Erste Lage' (Premier cru) based on 19th century Prussian tax maps.
The brand was later applied to waffle mix, potato chips, and eventually to the frozen waffle for which it is primarily known today.
People are referred to the food banks by professionals such as doctors, social services, Citizens Advice and police, and receive a food bank voucher.
Carbonated slushie machines often freeze to a temperature well below the freezing point of water, but the combination of pressure up to 40 psi (2.8 bar), the carbon dioxide mixture that freezes at −80 °C (−112 °F), the sugar, and the constant stirring prevent the mass from freezing solid.
In the American television sitcom Friends (1994-2004), Helena Handbasket is the drag name of Charles Bing, the gay father of main character Chandler Bing.
Bagel Bites are available in six flavors: Cheese & Pepperoni; Three Cheese; Cheese, Sausage & Pepperoni; Mozzarella Cheese; Supreme; Cheesy Garlic Bread; and Extreme Nacho.
This is known as a "single nougat" in Scotland, with a double nougat (pronounced nugget) having nougat wafers on both sides.
These types of smaller tin boxes are sometimes reused to store items, or to create kits, such as a survival kit.
A granary, also known as a grain house and historically as a granarium in Latin, is a post-harvest storage building primarily for grains or seeds.
Coffee beans are usually transported in large jute sacks, while coffee sold to consumers may be packaged as beans or ground coffee in a small, sealed plastic bag.
Several technologies such as annealing, adding nucleating agents, forming composites with fibers or nano-particles, chain extending and introducing crosslink structures have been used to enhance the mechanical properties of PLA polymers.
They are often used for small, delicate fruits like strawberries, raspberries, and blueberries, which require careful packaging to prevent bruising.
Uses Chub packs are used to pack semi-solid materials such as: sausage ground beef and ground turkey dog food cheese spreads frostings bread dough cookie dough creamed corn drywall compound explosive slurries See also Tube (container) Notes References Yam, K.
The verb " to hamper," to entangle, obstruct, hinder, especially used of disturbing the mechanism of a lock or other fastening so as to prevent its proper working, is of doubtful origin.
Oceania In Australia and New Zealand, they are known as "potato gems", "potato royals", or "potato pom-poms".
These repeated visits drew public attention and contributed significantly to the dessert's reputation and commercial expansion.
The removal of wine from the flexible bag without adding air to fill the vacated space greatly reduces the oxidation of the wine during dispensing.
Japan In early 20th century, Fujii Rin'emo travelled to United States to study Westerned styled food.
Safe storage times vary by food and may depend on how the food was handled before being placed in the refrigerator.
The Totinos sold their frozen pizza business to the Pillsbury Company in 1975, where Rose Totino was named as vice-president.
History According to ConAgra's official corporate history, Healthy Choice came into being after then-ConAgra CEO Charles "Mike" Harper suffered a heart attack in 1985.
In 2019, an estimated 2.4 million meals (meat and two side dishes) will be collected and redistributed to 80+ NPO partners throughout the country (an average of 46,000+ hot meals weekly) including soup kitchens, homeless shelters, last chances schools, and others.
From the second half of the 19th century, milk has been packaged and delivered in reusable and returnable glass bottles.
The emulsion is turned into foam by incorporating air cells which are frozen to form dispersed ice cells.
Food preservation, storage, and transport, including timely delivery to consumers, are important to food security, especially for the majority of people worldwide who rely on others to produce their food.
Orzas were usually made with the same paste as ''botijas, making it difficult to assign many sherds to a particular style of container.
The toast may include cheese on one or both sides, similar to an open-faced grilled cheese sandwich.
Uruguay In Uruguay, an ice cream sandwich (sánguche helado) or triple sandwich (sánguche triple) is typically a neapolitan ice cream (helado triple) sandwich prepared with wafers such as the one in the image.
To create extra volume and smooth consistency, the air is incorporated into the yogurt as the mixture is agitated.
Overland cattle drives moved large herds to the railheads in Kansas, where cattle cars brought live animals eastward.
Disposal of discarded refrigerators is regulated, often mandating the removal of doors for safety reasons.
Cortellazzi (1952) of Marmirolo were the first to produce muselets (or wirehoods) in Italy, the brilliant idea of A.
In the 1980s, TV dinners, quiches, flans, sandwiches, pizzas, ethnic snacks, pastas, and soups were kept chilled.
Indian River Farms Indian River Farms, which is also owned Irving group of companies, is managed by Elizabeth Irving, who is a fifth generation family member.
Smith's Pies bakeries serving the Northeast United States by 1930, including two bakeries in Pennsylvania: one in York, and one in the Logan neighborhood of Philadelphia.
Fruits and vegetables would be placed directly on the slatted shelves to encourage airflow around them.
'truffle'), also known as tartufo di Pizzo, is an Italian dessert of gelato originating in the comune (municipality) of Pizzo, Calabria.
The emergence of large-scale ranching, the role of the railroads, refrigeration, and entrepreneurial skills.
raised concerns for groundwater sustainability." In their January 2020 article in the journal Water, the authors write that an "inventory of groundwater is necessary for efficient water resource management, especially in relation to growing groundwater demands for agricultural use.
The concern about microwave popcorn bags has increased in terms of the waste and their harmful impacts on the environment.
Variations In 1969, the recently invented microwave oven enabled the Hungarian gastrophysicist Nicholas Kurti to produce a reverse baked Alaska (also called a "Frozen Florida")—a frozen shell of meringue filled with hot liquor.
Davide Andreani of Italy is in the Guinness Book of World Records for having the largest collection of soda cans of one specific brand in the world, with over 20,000 cans in his collection.
In February 2023, the Uno Foods division, including the production facility in Brockton, Massachusetts, was sold to Great Kitchen Food Company, a property of Brynnwood Partners.
In rest of the European Union, a trade organization called European Ice Cream Association calls for minimum dairy fat content of 5%.
Also during this time, the company bought its first freezing machines in the US and initiated the development of a trading frozen poultry to the Middle East.
Café liégeois is a French cold dessert made from lightly sweetened coffee, coffee-flavoured ice cream and Chantilly cream.
Both men and women wore necklaces, bracelets and pendants made of shell, stone, bone and dried berries.
1850-1914." Food and globalization: consumption, markets, and politics in the modern world (Berg, 2008) pp: 153–73.
In the gospels of Mark and Luke, Jesus tells two of his disciples to go into the city of Jerusalem, where they will meet a man carrying a pitcher of water (Greek: κεράμιον ὕδατος : kerámion hydatos), and instructs them to follow him to locate the upper room to be used for the Last Supper.
Punita (2020) Tiffin: An Untold Story Further reading Caldicott, Carolyn; Caldicott, Chris (17 August 2014).
It is also essential that grain intended to be stored in PICS bags be thoroughly dried prior to storage to prevent mold growth and grain rot.
It was cheap enough to be disposable, selling for just twenty-five cents per gross, a fraction of the cost of reusable stoppers.
Schwan quickly halted the production and sale of the company's ice cream and began a public-awareness campaign asking people not to eat Schwan's ice cream products.
The contents of the hamper may be decanted regularly into larger containers or a cart, wagon, or truck.
Since 1988, Tee Yih Jia started the expansion of its business activities beyond its initial markets into countries like China, Taiwan and the USA.
Other projects competing with PICS bags to prevent insect-induced post-harvest grain losses are other forms of hermetically sealed containers, such as the Grain-pro bag.
Campers making a campfire in the same location time after time can deplete the available wood in the area, which impacts the natural habitat of the animals.
Two years later, Richard Pistell was president, and Ashton would go on to become chairman of the company.
Under her management, Pepperidge Farm continued to expand into other products, including frozen pastry items and, later, the Goldfish snack cracker from Switzerland.
The main purpose of a liquor cabinet or cellarette was to secure wine and whiskey from theft as the bottles were hidden and the cabinet could have a lock.
Today, Americans consume approximately 70 million pounds (32,000 t) of Tater Tots, or 3,710,000,000 Tots per year.
Following the Korean War and post-war occupation, raw materials became scarce and cheap tin lunchboxes made from scrap metal were used to contain a simple meal of rice, banchan, and some protein.
This book contains prophecies attributed to the prophet Jeremiah, and is one of the Books of the Prophets.
It was defined as a liquid preparation made from cooked sago passed through a sieve and mixed with coconut milk, salt and sugar.
Way Fong is considered as one of the dominant brands and a major player in the frozen dumplings market.
The basic format is called "GN 1/1" and measures 530×325 mm, with other Gastronorm sizes being multiples and fractions of this basic module size.
Milk which is sold in pre-packaged containers that are non-returnable must be labelled in metric units.
The process of making helado de paila developed in the highlands of northern Ecuador and southern Colombia, including in Imbabura Province and Nariño Department.
Newly harvested grain brought into a granary tends to contain excess moisture, which encourages mold growth leading to fermentation and heating, both of which are undesirable and affect quality.
It was the deadliest fire in South Korea since the Daegu subway fire on 18 February 2003, which killed 192 people.
Flip-top The "flip-top", "swing-top" or "Grolsch" style consists of a plastic or ceramic stopper held in place by a set of wires.
The block has four standardized variants defined to specify emoji-style (U+FE0F VS16) or text presentation (U+FE0E VS15) for the two emoji, both of which default to a text presentation.
Historical parallels During the Stalinist purges, Jews who were accused of being "rootless cosmopolitans" had their names placed in single parentheses.
According to the Pampangan Academy (Akademiang Kapampángan), the Batiáuan revision complicates Kapampangan writing and confuses adherents of their proposed orthography.
Less common adverbs, including all those that end -ly, are less likely to need hyphens." In the 19th century, it was common to hyphenate adverb–adjective modifiers with the adverb ending in -ly (e.g., "a craftily-constructed chair").
Association with shouting or yelling Messages completely in capital letters are often equated on social media to shouting and other impolite or argumentative behaviors.
The diaeresis can be combined with the acute, grave and circumflex but never with breathings, since the letter with the diaeresis cannot be the first vowel of the word.
Lateral masking is a problem for the human visual perception of identical or similar entities in close proximity.
Types The following are examples of types of parenthetical phrases: Introductory phrase: Once upon a time, my father ate a muffin.
The older MS-DOS filesystems FAT12 and FAT16 were case-insensitive and not case-preserving, so that a file whose name is entered as readme.txt or ReadMe.txt is saved as README.TXT.
The sign equivalent to Iberian s is transcribed as z in Celtiberian, because it is assumed that it sometimes expresses the fricative result of an ancient dental stop (d), while the Iberian sign ś is transcribed as s.
It is used by scholars of the Hittite language to separate clitics from the word to which they attach; this usage has been adopted by the Leipzig Glossing Rules.
Italian orthography, which is shallow overall, offers clear examples of differential directionality in depth.
In the phrase dos and don'ts, most modern style guides disparage spelling the first word as do's; however, there is a lack of consensus and certainly the use of an apostrophe continues, legitimately, in which "the apostrophe of plurality occurs in the first word but not the second".
Vertical lines Ancient inscribed and cuneiform scripts such as Anatolian hieroglyphs frequently used short vertical lines to separate words, as did Linear B.
For example, in the International Phonetic Alphabet used in linguistics, ⟨a⟩ and ⟨ɑ⟩ represent different sounds, even though they are allographs of a lower-case ⟨a⟩ in normal English usage.
If A is ordered before B, there is a counterbleeding relationship if B destroys the environment that A applies to and has already applied and so B has missed its chance to bleed A.
In current practice, interrobang-like emphatic ambiguity in Hispanic languages is usually achieved by including both sets of punctuation marks, one inside the other: (¿¡De verdad!?
In his studies on what is now called Jungian archetypes, a sign stands for something known, as a word stands for its referent.
The particle ⟨не⟩ and the preposition ⟨без⟩ are written unchanged, independently of pronunciation: ⟨не быў⟩, instead of ⟨ня быў⟩; and ⟨без мамы⟩, instead of ⟨бяз мамы⟩ (compare with English definite article "the").
Drinov also believed that the letter щ and the silent yers should be removed, however, this was never put into practice.
Since, however, in commonly used modes, an individual tengwa was equivalent to a consonant, the term tengwa in the fiction became equivalent to "consonant sign", and the vowel signs were known as ómatehtar.
These keys can then be efficiently compared byte by byte in order to collate or sort them according to the rules of the language, with options for ignoring case, accents, etc.
Their prophecy so remained and was explained by the prophet Ezekiel: "So says the Lord, G-d: Are you the one of whom I have spoken in the days of yore through prophets of Israel?
In response to intense public criticism, businesses, organizations, and governments may take symbolic actions rather than, or in addition to, directly addressing the identified problems.
Shackle suggests that the Gurmukhī script was not favoured by Punjabi Muslims due to its religious (Sikh) connotations.
This is a spacing character, not to be confused with the alternative (below-letter) form of the ligature tie (a͜b U+035C ◌͜◌ COMBINING DOUBLE BREVE BELOW), which is a combining character.
Methods of romanization include transliteration, for representing written text, and transcription, for representing the spoken word, and combinations of both.
H-system The original method of working around the diacritics was developed by the creator of Esperanto himself, L.
It is also traditionally used to mark the division between lines of verse printed as prose (the style preferred by Oxford University Press), though it is now often replaced by the forward slash.
This system was presented to the International Romani Union in 1990, who adopted it as the organization's "official alphabet".
Recognising the lack of teachers in the language, Chesswas took the opportunity to publish a textbook for stations where no teachers of the language were available.
Looijenga, Tineke (2003), Texts & Contexts of the Oldest Runic Inscriptions (PDF), Leiden: Koninklijke Brill NV, ISBN 90-04-12396-2, archived from the original (PDF) on 2022-05-08, retrieved 2019-09-23 == External links ==
The straight apostrophe ' (the "ASCII apostrophe", U+0027 ' APOSTROPHE) is even more ambiguous, as it could also be intended as a left or right quotation mark, or a prime symbol.
According to the Yiddish scholar Dovid Katz, "prejudices and misconceptions" concerning Yiddish were promulgated by both antisemites and well-meaning Jewish assimilationists during the 19th century, both of whom regarded Yiddish as a degenerated form of German.
Matthijs Siegenbeek (Dutch pronunciation: [mɑˈtɛis ˈsiɣə(m)ˌbeːk]; 23 June 1774 in Amsterdam – 26 November 1854 in Leiden) was a Dutch academic.
Leibniz wrote about the alphabet of human thought and Alexander von Humboldt corresponded with Peter Stephen Du Ponceau who proposed a universal phonetic alphabet.
The randomized capitalization leads to the flow of words being broken, making it harder for the text to be read as it disrupts word identification even when the size of the letters is the same as in uppercase or lowercase.
Although the first example of written Romani dates from 1542, it is not until the twentieth century that vernacular writing by native Romani people arose.
The Babylonian Talmud discusses why the Hebrew Bible in Leviticus 23:42–43 writes for the plural word 'booths' the Hebrew word סֻּכֹּת (in defective scriptum), but in the verse that immediately follows makes use of the plural word in its usual form, סֻּכּוֹת.
It is currently edited by Mike Zender of the University of Cincinnati, which publishes and provides administrative offices for the journal.
Computer encoding Unicode encodes the daṇḍas as U+0964 । DEVANAGARI DANDA and U+0965 ॥ DEVANAGARI DOUBLE DANDA.
Rabbi Jedidiah Norzi (1560–1626) wrote a popular work on Hebrew orthography contained in the Five Books of Moses, and in the five Megillot, with examples of plene and defective writings, which was later named Minḥat Shai.
Whole language and related areas Whole language has the reputation of being a meaning-based method of teaching reading that emphasizes literature and text comprehension.
In a letter to the English Journal, Peter Brodie stated that apostrophes are "largely decorative ...
In addition to the unusual spelling system used the manuscript is notable for several other reasons.
The Ukrainian orthography (Ukrainian: Український правопис, romanized: Ukrainskyi pravopys) is the orthography for the Ukrainian language, a system of generally accepted rules that determine the ways of transmitting speech in writing.
The Latin alphabet has been preferred among Amazigh linguists and researchers, and also has a great deal of established writing, including newspapers, periodicals, and magazines.
The plays of Shakespeare show capitalization both of new lines and sentences, proper nouns, and some significant common nouns and verbs.
Another example of using a structured approach to teach reading is the foundational-skills curriculum, UFLI Foundations, developed by researchers at the University of Florida Literacy Institute.
Discussion of how to harmonize these with other systems led to several largely abortive proposals such as the African Reference Alphabet and the World Orthography.
References Sources Dictionary.com – Tittle External links Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A Greek-English Lexicon "Tittle" on Everything2
See also Vertical bar – Typographic symbol, | Pilcrow – Symbol (¶) to identify a paragraph, the latin character-set equivalent of the double daṇḍa Footnotes References External links The dictionary definition of danda at Wiktionary The dictionary definition of दण्ड at Wiktionary
The hyphen may be used between vowel letters (e.g., ee, ea, ei) to indicate that they do not form a digraph.
As, in these languages, use of script often has cultural or political connotations, proclamation of an official script is sometimes criticized as having a goal of influencing culture or politics or both.
800–1100) From the early Viking Age, the Younger Futhark inscription Ög43, from Östergötland, Sweden, features a unique case of an ideographic rune, namely an Elder Futhark d-rune ᛞ (early Old Norse: *dagʀ), used to represent the carvers name.
Everyday use of diacritics for Filipino is, however, uncommon, and meant only to distinguish between homonyms between a word with the usual penultimate stress and one with a different stress placement.
Tsade (also spelled ṣade, ṣādē, ṣaddi, ṣad, tzadi, sadhe, tzaddik) is the eighteenth letter of the Semitic abjads, including Phoenician ṣādē 𐤑, Hebrew ṣādī צ‎, Aramaic ṣāḏē 𐡑, Syriac ṣāḏē ܨ, Ge'ez ṣädäy ጸ, and Arabic ṣād ص‎.
Only with the three velar consonants, which like most Russian consonants have both a hard and a soft form, does the spelling rule actually reflect phonetically based pronunciation.
Some users of keyboards with Caps Lock on the left remap the keys to exchange Control and Caps Lock, finding the traditional location more ergonomic for using programs benefiting from use of the Control key.
He describes the use of the asterisk and the dagger as: "an asterisk makes a light shine, the obelisk cuts and pierces".
However, the practice is not unified when writing initial letters of personal names (first name and surname), for example Jan Chudoba can be abbreviated both J.
History In 1496, the semicolon ; is attested in Pietro Bembo's book De Aetna printed by Aldo Manuzio.
Orthographic regularity and depth Writing systems, especially alphabets, often include characters that can represent multiple sound values, or conversely sound values that can be represented by multiple characters – this phenomenon is referred to as polyvalence.
It is a particular graphical representation, in a particular typeface (or computer font), of an element of written language.
The oldest inscriptions in the southeastern Iberian script date to the 4th century BCE, while the most recent ones date from the end of the 2nd century BCE.
Syllabograms in syllabaries are analogous to letters in alphabets, which represent individual phonemes, or logograms in logographies, which represent morphemes.
This strategy is also followed with the ambiguous letters е, ю, and я in final syllables, for instance in юнь /jyn/ cheap.
OpenType provides support for transformations from normal letters to petite caps by two feature tags, pcap and c2pc.
Nevertheless, since 1991 the ligature ⟨և⟩ is oftentimes intentionally avoided in some print media, where ⟨եվ⟩ or ⟨եւ⟩ is used instead.
According to tradition, the Greeks had acquired the ability to write, among other things, from the Egyptians through Pythagoras (c.
Capital letters have been widely used in printed headlines from the early days of newspapers until the 1950s.
A readable orthography will avoid situations in which a reader is faced with severe lateral masking.
Although their Adobe glyph names are 'letter with comma', their names in the Unicode Standard are 'letter with a cedilla'.
The printed form is called uchen script while the hand-written cursive forms used in everyday writing are called umê script.
The letter Mem also had a descender 𐡌‎, however, its current final form ם‎ was a variant of מ‎ used interchangeably in all positions.
Diple obolismene was used according to Isidore to separate sentences in comedies and tragedies, so its usage was similar to that of paragraphos.
Decimals and Version Numbers: A variation of natural sort, often called version sort, is designed to handle multiple numeric segments separated by dots (e.g., 1.2.10 vs 1.2.2).
English is unusual because it combines deep orthography, with multiple possible sounds for many letters.
Small capitals are not found in all font designs, as traditionally in printing they were primarily used within the body text of books and so are often not found in fonts that are not intended for this purpose, such as sans-serif types which historically were not preferred for book printing.
It is also applied in areas such as voter registration, where Mac and Mc names may be sorted together in a listing.
Latin alphabet Most orthographies that use the Latin writing system are imperfectly phonological and diverge from that ideal to a greater or lesser extent.
This would then suggest that the Vikings closely tied their language to their auditory sense, which in turn would have helped with the continual transfer of their cultural memory, which was also closely tied to their language.
Usernames: Authentication systems usually treat usernames as case-insensitive to make them easier to remember, reducing typing complexity, and eliminate the possibility of both mistakes and fraud when two usernames are identical in every aspect except the case of one of their letters.
if the syllable in which the о is to be added in the suffix is unstressed, then one must always write е.
The orthographic system developed by Chinese Evenki scholars reflects differences between Evenki and Mongol phonology.
Each identification number specifies six attributes—category, group, symbol, variation, fill, and rotation—as dash-separated values.
Goosse's book, trying to make the debate less personal, was titled La « nouvelle » orthographe, Exposé et commentaires, published by Ed.Duculot in 1991.
Phonograms are contrasted with logograms, graphemes that represent units of meaning like words, morphemes, and determinatives (silent characters used to mark semantic categories).
The International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) also has some featural elements, for example in the hooks and tails that are characteristic of implosives, ɓ ɗ ʄ ɠ ʛ, and retroflex consonants, ʈ ɖ ʂ ʐ ɳ ɻ ɽ ɭ.
Up until then, Spanish norms were used in writing Kapampangan, which in turn meant that Kapampangan orthography was subject to the succession of reforms made by the Real Academia Española to Spanish orthography.
Math and science Decimal separator In the Middle Ages, from the original Indian decimal writing, before printing, an overline over the units digit was used to separate the integral part of a number from its fractional part, as in 9995 (meaning 99.95 in decimal point format).
The term donor principle is sometimes also used for the particular spelling of names of specific products, brands, institutions, etc., chosen by their owner, founder, designer, etc., when it clashes with the official spelling rules.
Some nations have established language academies in an attempt to regulate aspects of the national language, including its orthography—such as the Académie Française in France and the Royal Spanish Academy in Spain.
An -ing fragment is a type of incomplete sentence containing a word ending in -ing that is a gerund or noun, not a verb, because it lacks a helping verb.
Routine use of the serial comma helps to prevent ambiguity." Garner's Modern English Usage, 4th edition (Oxford University Press, 2016), "Punctuation," § D, "Comma", p.
Italic and bold face forms are also allographic, as is the variation seen in serif (as in Times New Roman) versus sans-serif (as in Helvetica) forms.
The Celtiberian script is a Paleohispanic script that was the main writing system of the Celtiberian language, an extinct Continental Celtic language, which was also occasionally written using the Latin alphabet.
Between 1100 CE and 1400 CE, the Telugu and Kannada scripts separated from the Telugu-Kannada script.
Homophones Two (or more) differently spelled words with different meanings are homophones if they are nonetheless pronounced the same; e.g., "right", "rite", "wright", and "write"; "read" (most tenses of verb) and "reed"; "read" (past, past participle) and "red".
In the end, it was indeed Drinov's reform which would become the most widely used, even during the Ottoman Empire.
In Unicode code charts, the representative glyph used for U+02BB looks identical to that used for the U+2018 ‘ LEFT SINGLE QUOTATION MARK, but this is not true for all fonts.
Indeed "virtually every edition" of the playwright's work in the early 19th century before 1840 used this spelling.
According to Dhavan, Punjabi began to adopt the script as a "side effect" of educational practices in Mughal-era Punjab, when Punjabi Muslims learned the Persian language in order to participate in Mughal society.
Expanding the Application of SWI SWI is gaining traction as a method for teaching students of varying ages, from young children to adults, by emphasizing the structure of words rather than rote memorization.
A major area of the debate concerned whether or not "Into Darkness" was a subtitle of Star Trek Into Darkness, which was not clear without the colon.
The DUCET is customizable for different languages, and some such customizations can be found in the Unicode Common Locale Data Repository (CLDR).
The same is true for the ⟨o⟩ in English boat, [oː] in Scottish English, instead of the diphthong [əʊ].
Spell checkers can use approximate string matching algorithms such as Levenshtein distance to find correct spellings of misspelled words.
clauses that have not been made dependent through the use of a relative pronoun or a subordinating conjunction) that are joined without appropriate punctuation: the clauses "run on" into confusion.
In academic writing, it is sometimes used as an in-text referencing tool to make reference to a specific paragraph from a document that does not contain page numbers, allowing the reader to find where that particular idea or statistic was sourced.
The term is infrequently used, as the number of letters is usually specified: Some multigraphs are considered ligatures, or letters unto themselves, such as ⟨ij⟩ in Dutch, ⟨dzs⟩ in Hungarian, and ⟨dž⟩ in Serbo-Croatian and a few other Slavic languages.
Previously this sign could also appear above the medial form of kāf, instead of the stroke on its ascender.
Bell, who introduced them in his edition of the British Classics [published in the 1780s and 1790s].
He was regarded as a pioneer in the development of the writing of the Luganda language, and held prominent positions in the Ugandan colonial government of the day.
(In some typefaces, one or other or both of these characters are designed in these styles; they are not produced by overstrike or by combining diacritic.
Two contrasting philosophies exist with regard to emergent readers learning to associate letters to speech sounds in English.
It may be used to separate a person's given and family names, such as transcribing the name of Galileo Galilei as: ガリレオ゠ガリレイ.
Sometimes intervocalic b and m is silent: as in ᠳᠡᠪᠡᠯ debel (Khalkha: дээл deel) 'robe, garment' or ᠬᠦᠮᠦᠨ kümün (Khalkha: хүн khün) 'human, person; man'.
For example, a blank statement (a semicolon by itself) stands for a NOP in C/C++, which is useful in busy waiting synchronization loops.
The now final forms ן ץ ף ך‎ predate their non-final counterparts; They were the default forms used in any position within a word.
For example, one might send a message reading "*morning" or "morning*" to correct the misspelling in the message "I had a good mroning".
[3] Paper by Wiebke Petersen on 'A Mathematical Analysis of Pāṇini’s Śiva sūtras.' [4] Paper by Madhav Deshpande on 'Who Inspired Pāṇini?
This can be contrasted with the older way of abbreviating et cetera, namely &c., where ⟨&⟩ is used to represent et as a full loanword, not a heterogram.
A meme known as "Mocking SpongeBob" more broadly popularized using alternating caps to convey a mocking tone starting in May 2017, leading to alternating caps becoming a mainstream method of conveying mockery in text.
Many Spanish words are similar or identical to English words, but with an "n" inserted, or replacing an "m", leading to errors: "inmigrant" from "inmigrante", "cementery" from "cementerio", "confortable" instead of "comfortable".
This principle applies in particular to the standardization in the receiver language of exonyms when they are used in publications.
Depending on the classification, it is considered the Southern or Southeastern variety of the ǃKung (also rendered ǃXun) language cluster.
Jawi nya In the Jawi alphabet, the letter nya is a modified form of the letter nūn with two additional dots.
The section sign is frequently used along with the pilcrow (or paragraph sign), ¶, to reference a specific paragraph within a section of a document.
Ethiopic (Geʽez) The Ethiopic (Geʽez) script appears in southern Arabia during periods of Aksumite presence, especially in the 6th century.
For example, hitobito, "people", is usually written 人々, using the kanji for 人 with an iteration mark, 々, rather than 人人, using the same kanji twice.
The nasal tilde is sometimes mistaken for the tone mark ngã in modern reproductions of early Vietnamese writing, such as in Phạm Thế Ngũ's Việt Nam văn học sử.
The writings are not arranged chronologically, however, and so they serve only as an approximate guide for determining the age of the manuscript.
This revision created the standard script, known as tongki fuka sindaha hergen (Manchu: ᡨ᠋ᠣᠩᡴᡳ ᡶ᠋ᡠᡴᠠ ᠰᡳᠨ᠋ᡩ᠋ᠠᡥᠠ ᡥᡝᡵᡤᡝᠨ) — the "script with dots and circles".
The seven Yoruba vowels (⟨a⟩, ⟨e⟩, ⟨ẹ⟩, ⟨i⟩, ⟨o⟩, ⟨ọ⟩, ⟨u⟩) can be uttered in three different tones: high (acute accent); middle (no accent) and low (grave accent).
Another example is the tonal difference between ainm [ɛnɛm] and anam [anam], the latter of which has the tonal contour appropriate to a disyllable.
Wiki link markup Camel case is used in some wiki markup languages for terms that should be automatically linked to other wiki pages.
However, a ligature such as |fi|, that is treated in some typefaces as a single unit, is arguably not a glyph as this is just a design choice of that typeface, essentially an allographic feature, and includes more than one grapheme.
Dearborn (February 1, 1875 – July 28, 1937) worked as a shorthand instructor and trainer of shorthand teachers at Simmons College, Columbia University, and several other institutions.
Lowercase the second word after a hyphenated prefix (e.g., Mid-, Anti-, Super-, etc.) in compound modifiers (e.g., Mid-year, Anti-hero, etc.).
This is also sometimes still used in Taiwan for important officials, such as Chiang Kai-shek and Sun Yat-sen, although this practice has gradually fallen out of favor.
In the late 1930s the Latinization campaign was canceled and all newly romanized languages were converted to Cyrillic.
Exactly what Caps Lock does depends on the keyboard hardware, the operating system, the device driver, and the keyboard layout.
At this time Psycharis was assistant to the professor of Greek at the École spéciale des Langues orientales in Paris, and My Journey described an 1886 visit he had made to Constantinople, Chios and Athens.
Shuang tai Shuang tai (Chinese: 雙抬, literally "double shift") as above, but two characters above a normal line.
In the official version of the Even script in 1947, the digraph нг was officially canceled, but in 1954 it was restored again.
The lack of word parsing forced the reader to distinguish elements of the script without a visual aid, but it also presented the reader with more freedom to interpret the text.
Roman square capitals, also called capitalis monumentalis, inscriptional capitals, elegant capitals and capitalis quadrata, are an ancient Roman form of writing, and the basis for modern capital letters.
Typing "DIR/W" gave the "wide" option to the "DIR" command, so some other method was needed if one actually wanted to run a program called W inside a directory called DIR).
In all cases, the Enter key may vary between this L-shaped key on two rows, and the horizontal key on the third row only (moving the key assigned to letter Ǝ to the end of the second row).
Arabic speaking Christians belonging to the Byzantine rite from the Levant (Lebanon, Palestine, and Syria) produced many liturgical items in this medium.
Historically, it represented either a pharyngealized /sˤ/ or an affricate such as the Modern Hebrew pronunciation or Geʽez [t͡sʼ]; which became [t͡s] in Ashkenazi Hebrew.
Since dictionaries adopted the new spellings early on, there is no currently in-print, standard reference work available for traditional spellings.
Traditionally, English-speaking countries (except South Africa) employed commas as the delimiter—10,000—and other European countries employed periods (full stops) or spaces: 10.000 or 10 000.
Some of these words have a Hebrew word equivalent, and that equivalent had totally lost the beginning aleph.
As political parties are often named after philosophies or ideologies, a capital letter is used to differentiate between a supporter of the philosophy, and a supporter of the party, for instance Liberal, a supporter of any Liberal Party, and liberal, a supporter of the philosophy of liberalism.
Some versions of the Apple Messages app are unable to properly handle Zalgo text, and will crash if they try to render a message that contains such text.
Morphophonology (also morphophonemics or morphonology) is the branch of linguistics that studies the interaction between morphological and phonological or phonetic processes.
An ideogram or ideograph (from Greek idéa 'idea' + gráphō 'to write') is a symbol that is used within a given writing system to represent an idea or concept in a given language.
Charles Butler (1571 – 29 March 1647), sometimes called the Father of English Beekeeping, was a logician, grammarian, author, priest (Vicar of Wootton St Lawrence, near Basingstoke, England), and an influential beekeeper.
Sentence 2 is compound because "so" is considered a coordinating conjunction in English, and sentence 3 is complex.
Daytshmerish (Yiddish: דײַטשמעריש) is a Yiddish derogatory term for Germanized variety of Yiddish orthography, style of speaking, and vocabulary.
For example, the letter O and the figure 0 have similar shape but have different meanings; the three letters A, Α and А look identical but are characters from three different scripts (Latin, Greek and Cyrillic).
See also Annotation – Item of metadata attached to a document Aristarchian symbols – Marks to annotate ancient Greek texts Dagger (mark) – Typographical symbol (†).
Other writers have noted that eye dialect has sometimes been used in derisive fashion toward ethnic or regional pronunciation, in particular by contrasting standard spelling with non-standard spelling to emphasize differences.
Among the Italian consonants, both /s/ and /z/ are written ⟨s⟩, and both /t͡s/ and /d͡z/ are written ⟨z⟩; stress and hiatus are also not reliably distinguished.
In languages such as Quenya, which do not contain any voiced fricatives other than "v", the raised stem + doubled bow row is used for the common nasal+stop sequences (nt, mp, nk, nqu).
The asterisk was one of several symbols developed by scholars of Homeric poetry at the Library of Alexandria over 2,000 years ago.
Balanced literacy Balanced literacy is not well defined; however, it is intended as a method that combines elements of both phonics and whole language.
In order to avoid it being confused with the equals sign =, the double hyphen is often shown as a double oblique hyphen in modern typography.
In such circumstances, the spelling pronunciation may well become more comprehensible than the other.
The resulting glyphs may look quite different in shape and style from the reference character or each other, but nevertheless their meaning remains the same.
This set of letters is known acronymically as אותיות מנצפ"ך‎ (otiyot menetzepekh, 'MNTzPK letters').
The Arabic letters ﺙ, ﺫ, ﻅ, representing the Arabic interdentals /θ, ð, ð̣/ may be used in etymological spellings of loanwords, but they are often replaced by ﺕ, ﺩ, ﺽ, in accordance with Shilha pronunciation, e.g.
See also Dagger (typography) Comma Textual criticism Annotation Marginalia Proofreading marks == References ==
Spelling reform Charles Butler published The English grammar (1633) with proposals to improve spelling to a phonetic alphabet.
Garg, the merchants of India used special scripts and each region had its own particular name for their script, such as Mundi, Modi, Mudiya, Mahajani, and Sarafi.
In his book, Butler condemned the vagaries of traditional English spelling and proposed the adoption of a system whereby 'men should write altogeđer according to đe sound now generally received'.
The system is not completely standardized, and, given the differences between dialects and speakers, many words have more than one “correct” spelling and pronunciation.
A phonemic orthography is an orthography in which the graphemes correspond consistently to the language's phonemes, or more generally to the language's diaphonemes.
There are surviving examples of blockprinted amulets containing Arabic words in the Coptic alphabet, probably intended to be sold to Coptic Christians.
Many nouns have irregular plurals, such as jù (person, plural jú), and the plural form of a noun is not predictable.
Code reference See also Dash#Swung dash Tilde#Unicode and Shift JIS encoding of wave dash Japanese punctuation#Wave dash == References ==
However, only one book was published in this alphabet - a translation of the textbook of arithmetic (Арифметика.
Use The character is used in many Polynesian languages as ʻokina, a unicameral consonant letter used within the Latin script to mark the phonemic glottal stop.
For example, the Mandarin Chinese name for the capital of the People's Republic of China is Beijing using the commonly used contemporary system Hànyǔ Pīnyīn, but in the historically significant Wade–Giles system, it is written Pei-Ching.
{\displaystyle {\underline {v}}=\mathbf {v} =\left[v_{1}\;v_{2}\right]^{\mathbf {T} }.} complex numbers.
Other languages (for instance, some assembly languages and LISP dialects, CONFIG.SYS and INI files) use semicolons to mark the beginning of comments.
In the theory of writing systems, homophony (from the Greek: ὁμός, homós, "same" and Greek: φωνή, phōnē, "sound") refers to the presence or use of different signs (phonograms) for the same syllabic value, i.e.
Comparison Some features include: Using the letter o to represent a final [ɔ] or [o], where Classical Occitan uses a.
They come in four main pairs of shapes, as given in the box to the right, which also gives their names, that vary between British and American English.
This often occurs in the course of transcription; thus a transposition error is a special case of a transcription error.
Breviographs were used frequently by stenographers, law clerks and scriveners, and they were also found in early printed books and tracts.
Masonry (secret society), which is in essence a peculiar use of the word masonry (wall building) – are omitted.
In order to avoid a complete re-typesetting of the entire text for this discrepancy, the publishers commonly shifted 神 so that it also took two spaces and the rest of the text could be typeset identically with 上帝.) Ping tai Ping tai (Chinese: 平抬, literally "level shift") is another form.
He served in Indian Army Pioneer Corps during World War II and was promoted from a private soldier to 2nd lieutenant in January 1941.
Syllabograms tend not to be used for languages with more complicated syllables: for example English phonotactics allows syllables as complex as CCCVCCCC (as in strengths), generating many thousands of possible syllables and making the use of syllabograms cumbersome.
The characters were often depicted bleeding from their eyes, and forum members interpreted Zalgo as an unimaginable, eldritch apocalyptic figure.
While Arabic is dominant in the Arabian Peninsula today, some modern South Arabian languages, though endangered, survive, with several hundred thousand speakers across Yemen (including Socotra) and Oman.
The son-in-law of Maurice Grevisse, he took over editing and updating Grevisse's last book, Le Bon Usage.
It might seem logical that where spell-checking dictionaries are concerned, "the bigger, the better," so that correct words are not marked as incorrect.
This system was widely used within the country but differed from the orthographies of neighboring countries of West Africa, as developed in the wake of the 1966 Bamako expert meeting on harmonizing orthographies of the cross-border languages of the region.
Using camel case between words reduces the number of spaces, and thus the number of characters, in a given message, allowing more content to fit into the limited space.
Morphophonological analysis often involves an attempt to give a series of formal rules or constraints that successfully predict the regular sound changes occurring in the morphemes of a given language.
These substitutions originated in the early history of Esperanto due to the limitations of typewriters, and typically replace the accented letters (ĉ, ĝ, ĥ, ĵ, ŝ, and ŭ) with digraphs or other ASCII-compatible sequences.
In German, for example, the pentagraph tzsch represents the [tʃ] sound of the English digraph ch, and indeed is found in the English word Nietzschean.
However, in some languages a multigraph may be treated as a single unit for the purposes of collation; for example, in a Czech dictionary, the section for words that start with ⟨ch⟩ comes after that for ⟨h⟩.
Some authors, for example, replace þ with th and ð with th, dh or d but keep the accents; others may not replace ǫ with ö but prefer o.
The seven-letter German sequence ⟨schtsch⟩, used to transliterate the Russian and Ukrainian letter ⟨щ⟩, as in ⟨Borschtsch⟩ [bɔʁʃtʃ] for Russian/Ukrainian ⟨борщ⟩ (Russian: [borɕː], Ukrainian: [bɔrʃtʃ]) "borscht", is a sequence of a trigraph ⟨sch⟩ [ʃ] and a tetragraph ⟨tsch⟩ [t͡ʃ].
In the mode of Beleriand, found on the door to Moria, the bottom tyellë is used for nasals (e.g., vala is used for /m/) and the fifth tyellë for doubled nasals (malta for /mm/).
See also Narkamaŭka Differences between Taraškievica and the official orthography References Two Standard Languages within Belarusian: a Case of Bi-cultural Conflict by Ihar Klimaŭ (Belarusian State University of Culture and Arts) - École normale supérieure, 25 March 2006
Rovás Info News Portal Rovas Foundation: Code request for the Rovas script in ISO 15924 (2012-10-20) Jenő Demeczky, György Giczi, Dr.
In Japanese, list items are typically connected either with the particle と ("and") throughout or separated simply by commas, as in 母と父と私 or 母、父、私.
6 August] 1769) was a Russian poet, essayist and playwright who helped lay the foundations of classical Russian literature.
Descendant scripts by type Logographic Oracle bone script, seal script, clerical script, standard script, semi-cursive script, cursive script, traditional Chinese, simplified Chinese, Zetian characters, bowen, sawndip, chữ Hán, chữ Nôm, hanja and kanji.
These differences meant that Katharevousa was only partly intelligible to a Greek without higher education.
Margaret Heffernan (born 1944), is a Central Arrernte linguist, author, interpreter and translator who is now a well respected elder in her community.
Modern use The pilcrow remains in use in modern documents in the following ways: In legal writing, it is often used whenever one cites a specific paragraph within pleadings, law review articles, statutes, or other legal documents and materials.
The most radical proposals involved the Latinization of Yiddish, which had precedents in pre-revolutionary plans like Ludwig Zamenhof's 1909 blueprint.
This is a stylistic variation on the more common + (plus sign) for a check and # (number sign) for checkmate.
The southeastern Iberian script, also known as Meridional Iberian, was one of the means of written expression for the Iberian language, which was primarily written in the northeastern Iberian script and, to a lesser extent, by the Greco-Iberian alphabet.
Monotonic orthography (from Ancient Greek μόνος (mónos) 'single' and τόνος (tónos) 'accent') is the standard system for Modern Greek.
The Commission on the Filipino Language (Filipino: Komisyon sa Wikang Filipino) has published several standardized prescriptive orthographies for select languages of the Philippines.
These nine ancient Greek textual annotation symbols are also included in the supplemental punctuation list of ISO/IEC 10646 standard for character sets.
Comparison chart Note: The bopomofo extended characters in the zhuyin row require a UTF-8 font capable of displaying Unicode values 31A0–31B7 (ex.
Text to be formatted by the recipient The use of SHY characters in text that will be broken into lines by the recipient is the application context considered by the post-1999 HTML and Unicode specifications, as well as some word-processing file formats.
Usually, it is written as fullwidth form in Chinese and Japanese, in Unicode: U+FF1F ？ FULLWIDTH QUESTION MARK.
We are also informed that "he spent several years in sciences among Oxonians, particularly, as it seems, in Gloucester Hall; but that study, which he used for a diversion only, proved at length an employment of profit." He is mentioned for his skill in micrography in Holinshed's Chronicle.
Hismaic Hismaic inscriptions are concentrated in southern Jordan and northwestern Arabia, particularly in the Ḥismā desert.
Relatedly, in ranges that include negative numbers, "to" is used to avoid ambiguity or awkwardness (for example, "temperatures ranged from −18 °C to −34 °C").
The aim of the International Institute of African Languages and Cultures, later renamed the International African Institute (IAI), was to enable people to write for practical and scientific purposes in all African languages without the need of diacritics.
Orthographic complexity also contributes to how dyslexia manifests in readers of different languages.
After 1947, with the need for translation of Bible, Latin scripts for Bunun, Paiwan, Taroko, Atayal, and Amis were created.
Sounds that were transliterated included the aspirated sounds k' (Chinese pinyin: k, ᠺ), k (g, ᡬ), x (h, ᡭ); ts' (c, ᡮ); ts (ci, ᡮ᠊ᡟ); sy (si, ᠰ᠊ᡟ); dz (z, ᡯ); c'y (chi, ᡱᡟ); j'y (zhi, ᡷᡟ); and ž (r, ᡰ).
Morphophonology bridges the gap between morphology and phonology, offering insights into the dynamic interactions between word formation and sound patterns.
Variations on written form/pronunciation The letter Pe is one of the six letters which can receive a Dagesh Kal.
By the Song dynasty, the addition of punctuation to texts by scholars to aid comprehension became common.
However, the 1999 Orthographic Dictionary of the Ukrainian language does not include this exception for church-related loanwords, such as архієпископ (archbishop), архієрей (bishop), архімандрит (archimandrite), клір (clergy), клірик (cleric).
While § is usually read in spoken English as the word "section", many other languages use the word "paragraph" exclusively to refer to a section of a document (especially of legal text), and use other words to describe a paragraph in the English sense.
In HTML5, the tag reappeared but its meaning was changed significantly: it now "represents a span of inline text which should be rendered in a way that indicates that it has a non-textual annotation".
In contrast, ideograms were an identifying feature of the Pahlavi system, and these huzvarishn were words borrowed from Semitic languages such as Aramaic that continued to be spelled as in Aramaic (in Pahlavi script) but were pronounced as the corresponding word in Persian.
With alphabetic writing systems, phonological awareness plays a central role in reading acquisition; while phonological awareness in Chinese is much less important.
History The Sinckan Manuscripts are one of the earliest written materials of several Formosan languages, including Siraya and Taivoan.
Wave dash (U+301C 〜 WAVE DASH) is a character represented in Japanese character encoding mainly used as a dash and chōonpu.
Ligature Because of its frequent occurrence, kai is sometimes abbreviated in Greek manuscripts and in signage, by a ligature (comparable to Latin &), written as ϗ (uppercase variant Ϗ; Coptic variant ⳤ), formed from kappa (κ) with an extra lower stroke.
Lowercase articles (a, an, the), coordinating conjunctions, and prepositions of three letters or fewer.
Most inscriptions containing these symbols are extremely short, making it difficult to judge whether or not these symbols constituted a script used to record a language, or even symbolise a writing system.
Cyrillic In 1936–1937, the Even Latin alphabet, like other alphabets of the peoples of the USSR, was replaced by a Cyrillic alphabet that contained all Russian letters and the digraph Нг нг.
Orthographic transcription is a transcription method that employs the standard spelling system of each target language.
Hebrew kaf Hebrew spelling: כַּף‎ Hebrew pronunciation The letter kaf is one of the six letters that can receive a dagesh kal.
Maggin once accidentally signed his name with an exclamation due to the habit of using them when writing comic scripts; it became his professional name from then on.
With computer memory and computer storage at premium, early character sets were limited to the Latin alphabet, the ten digits and a few punctuation marks and conventional symbols.
About the same time, the Greeks created an additional letter, o mega, probably by writing o micron with an underline, that was used for /ɔː/.
The antiquarian Joseph Hunter was the first to publish all known variations of the spelling of the name, which he did in 1845 in his book Illustrations of the Life, Studies, and Writings of Shakespeare.
Silvio Panciera, "Struttura dei supplementi e segni diacritici dieci anni dopo" in SupIt 8 (1991), pp.
In contrast, paleographers today identify the extinction of scriptio continua as a critical factor in augmenting the widespread absorption of knowledge in the pre-Modern Era.
Sample text Following is a reading and explanation of the frame from a Shaba book illustrated at the top of the page.
Further problems are caused by examples of confusion with English, such as connection (incorrect) and connexion (correct).
During the 5th to 7th centuries the early Bādāmi Chālukyās and early Banavasi Kadambās used an early form of the Kadamba script in inscriptions.
In many books, mention of another part of the same book or mentions the work as a whole will be set in small caps.
History Use of similar gestures has been recorded as early as 1927, and Glenda Farrell used air quotes in a 1937 screwball comedy, "Breakfast for Two." In 1889, in Lewis Carroll's last novel, the author described air brackets and an air question mark.
There were many other such shorthand symbols, to indicate corrections, emendations, deletions, additions, and so on.
Titles The Chicago Manual of Style recommends that the titles of English-language artistic works (plays, novels, essays, paintings, etc.) capitalize the first word and the last word in the title.
An echo vowel, also known as a synharmonic vowel, is a paragogic vowel that repeats the final vowel in a word in speech.
Further investigations will take place with more robust software to discover if there are more letters that have faded.
The Ukrainian orthography of 1933 was approved by the resolution of the People's Commissar of Education of the UkrSSR on September 5, 1933.
The Computer Modern fonts replace it with an "E.T." symbol in the cmti# (text italic) fonts, so it can be entered as {\it\&} in running text when using the default (Computer Modern) fonts.
Kai is a word that is a conjunction meaning "and" in Ancient Greek (καί, kaí, [kǎi̯]), Modern Greek (και, kai, [ce]), Coptic (ⲕⲁⲓ, kai, [cɛ]) and Esperanto (kaj, [kai̯]).
On social media, the trademark symbol has seen use in an ironic fashion, highlighting a concept as if it were important enough to warrant its own trademark, for example, "Official Bisexual Haircut™" or "soon™".
The lower knowledge (apara vidya) includes knowledge of four Vedas, phonetics, grammar, etymology, meter, astrology, and the knowledge of sacrifices and rituals.
External links Overview of the abjad numerological system Sufi numerology site Archived 2012-04-21 at the Wayback Machine Numerical Value of an Arabic Text as per "Abjad" Calculation - www.alavibohra.org Archived 2011-07-05 at the Wayback Machine Abjad Calculator
Example The following passage from Hart's Orthographie, in his original spelling, illustrates the system.
For example, the Cyrillic alphabets adapted to the Caucasian languages, which are phonologically very different from Russian, make extensive use of digraphs, trigraphs, and even a tetragraph in Kabardian ⟨кхъу⟩ for /q͡χʷ/.
In addition, pronunciations change depending on how carefully a person is speaking, how quickly they are speaking, and whether they are in a formal setting or at home.
For example, Unicode character U+0430, Cyrillic small letter a ("а"), can look identical to Unicode character U+0061, Latin small letter a, ("a") which is the lowercase "a" used in English.
There is also a Naxi tradition of pictographic symbols called dongba; this may sometimes be glossed with geba for clarification, since a dongba text may be intelligible only to its author.
Shahmukhi is written from right to left and has 36 primary letters with some other additional letters.
Unicode The Lycian alphabet was added to the Unicode Standard in April, 2008 with the release of version 5.1.
The English Spelling Society, sponsor of the congress, afforded TSR a degree of support and publicity which was due to be reviewed in March 2025.
Title case in references The use of title case or sentence case in the references of scholarly publications is determined by the used citation style and can differ from the usage in title or headings.
The statement of Elia Levita that the Westerns follow Ben Asher, and the Easterns Ben Naphtali, is not without many exceptions.
A heptagraph (from Ancient Greek: ἑπτά, heptá 'seven' and γράφω, gráphō 'write') is a sequence of seven letters used to represent a single sound (phoneme), or a combination of sounds, that do not correspond to the individual values of the letters.
Whitaker, "Lacunae and the id est Brevigraph in Oxford, Bodleian Library, MS Bodley 283," Manuscripta 36, no.
"Pazand texts, transcribed phonetically, represent a late and often corrupt Middle Persian pronunciation, and so present their own problems." "The corruptions during this process are sometimes considerable." Among the transcribed texts are the prefaces (dibacheh) to prayers in Avestan.
The victims may never notice the difference, until suspicious or criminal activity occurs with their accounts.
Many characters often explained as semantic compounds were originally phono-semantic compounds that have been obscured in this way.
Isidore of Seville remarks in his Etymologiae (I.21.13) that the diple was used to mark quotations from the Bible.
An open source implementation of UCA is included with the International Components for Unicode, ICU.
The letters ⟨nge⟩, when final, represent /ndʒ/, as in orange; when not final their pronunciation varies according to the word's etymology (e.g.
The system was further refined by his student Aristophanes of Byzantium, who first introduced the asterisk and used a symbol resembling a ⊤ for an obelus; and finally by Aristophanes' student, in turn, Aristarchus, from whom they earned the name of "Aristarchian symbols".
The Mundi script spread to other parts of India by the 17th or 18th century, with it having influence on merchant records written in Karnataka in Kannada script, particularly the form and style of writing.
The dispute over whether to adhere to or make an exception to Wikipedia's guideline stretched to over 40,000 words.
In Italian and Romanian, the orthographic convention for representing /k/ before front vowels is to add ⟨h⟩ (Italian chiaro, [ˈkjaːro] 'clear').
The English language uses a rather large set of 13 to 21 vowel phonemes, including diphthongs, although its 22 to 26 consonants are close to average.
In English writing the tittle is a diacritic which appears only as part of these glyphs, but diacritic dots can appear over other letters in various languages.
Features overlap each other in time, as do suprasegmental phonemes in oral language and many phonemes in sign languages.
In addition to the extensive use of newspaper and magazine ads, Speedwriting gained publicity from a few unsolicited endorsements.
breabhaid "sortie", deabhaidh "haste, skirmish", feabhais "improvement" (gen), leabhair "books", meabhair "minds".
Modern Hebrew uses the forms פ כ‎ finally, when transcribing a plosive pronunciation, for example מיקרוסקופ‎ (microscope), מובארכ‎ (Mubarak, مبارك), while their final forms ף ך‎, are transcribing a fricative pronunciation, for example כך‎ (Kach), שף‎ (Chef).
The original symbol set, SSS-95, was limited in size due to memory constraints in personal computers at the time.
Historically, in Germany and Austria, thousands separators were occasionally denoted by alternating uses of commas and points, e.g.
Undertie The undertie is used to represent linking (absence of a break) in the International Phonetic Alphabet.
There's no clear consensus." Regardless, some far-right users of Twitter saw the tweet as a genuine signal of support for antisemitism, and other users found the tweet to be in poor taste even as a joke.
The text decoration property supports also other typographical features with horizontal lines: underline (a line below the text) and strikethrough (a line through the text).
Traditionally, scriptio continua was used for the Indic alphabets of South and Southeast Asia and hangul of Korea, but spacing is now used with hangul and increasingly with the Indic alphabets.
The semicolon, as a mark separating statements, corresponds to the ordinary English usage of separating independent clauses and gives the entire program the gross syntax of a single ordinary sentence.
Two modern well-known examples of syllabaries consisting mostly of CV syllabograms are the Japanese kana, used to represent the same sounds in different occasions.
The Sūtrakāra (author of the Sūtras) restored a form of Advaitism by discriminating between the names and functions of akṣara and puruṣa while maintaining their ultimate unity in a single goal.
Ancient Greek had distinctive vowel length: five short vowels, /i e a o u/, and seven long vowels, /iː eː ɛː aː ɔː oː uː/.
A "dotted lunate sigma" (σίγμα περιεστιγμένον) Ͼ was used by him as an editorial sign indicating that the line so-marked is at an incorrect position in the surrounding text; an antisigma, or "reversed lunate sigma" Ͻ, may also mark an out of place line.
Contemporary systems like musical and mathematical notation, computer icons, and emoji have also been characterized as semasiographies.
No effect of phonologically related context pictures were found for the reaction times for reading Chinese words.
He wanted to simplify the spelling so that, in his eyes, people and learners would have an easier time.
It was one of the two main scripts used by merchants in northwest India, the other being Langdi employed in the Punjab region.
In the conjugation of verbs, in both the indicative and the conditional modes, ⟨կ⟩ is added directly, without an apostrophe before vowels or ⟨ը⟩ before consonants.
This can cause uneven spacing in the text, but can be mitigated by the use of thin spaces, hair spaces, or even zero-width spaces on the sides of the em dash.
They were used to highlight missing text, text which was discrepant between sources, and text which appeared in the wrong place.
As with other impure abjads, such as the Hebrew alphabet, scribes devised means of indicating vowel sounds by separate vowel diacritics later on in the development of the script.
There are six vowel letters, one for each of the four oral vowels of Lycian, and separate letters for two of the four nasal vowels.
Other laboratory-based studies of Tall Man lettering show a mixture of positive and null results, which may be further complicated due to demand characteristics of some of the studies.
A speaker may alternatively say "quote" before and "unquote" after quoted words, or say "quote unquote" before or after the quoted words, or pause before and emphasize the parts in quotes.
For languages with relatively shallow orthographies, such as Italian and Finnish, new readers have few problems learning to decode words.
The letter hamza is the only letter of the Arabic alphabet that lacks a final, initial or medial form, only its alone or isolated form, as it is an unlinked letter.
diff output - is used to denote deleted lines in diff output in the context format or the unified format.
Areas of significance Case sensitivity may differ depending on the situation: Searching: Users expect information retrieval systems to be able to have correct case sensitivity depending on the nature of an operation.
Syllabification and spelling Hyphens are occasionally used to denote syllabification, as in syl-la-bi-fi-ca-tion.
List of tetragraphs Latin script Cyrillic script In Cyrillic used for languages of the Caucasus, there are tetragraphs as doubled digraphs used for 'strong' consonants (typically transcribed in the IPA as geminate), and also labialized homologues of trigraphs.
In the latter case, they both contributed enough significant material to the screenplay to receive credit but did not work together.
In Maghrebian Abjad order: For four Persian letters these values are used: Similar systems The Abjad numerals are equivalent to the earlier Hebrew numerals up to 400.
The Pe̍h-ōe-jī of Taiwanese Hokkien and Pha̍k-fa-sṳ of Taiwanese Hakka were also created with by the western missionaries.
(It appears to be an overgeneralization on the part of the al-Kitāb writers.) Overview tables The letter ط ‎ (ṭ) stands here for any consonant.
Possessives in business names Where a business name is based on a family name it should in theory take an apostrophe, but many leave it out (contrast Sainsbury's with Harrods).
It is pronounced, however, such that neither the lips touch together nor the tongue touches the palate.
A pallawa is used to separate rhythmico-intonational groups, thus functionally corresponding to the full stop and comma of the Latin script.
History On 3 September 1939, Neville Chamberlain, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, reconstructed his existing government so as to be suited for the Second World War.
His Chancellor of the Exchequer, Benjamin Disraeli, was instrumental in passing the Second Reform Act in 1867.
James Stewart Forbes and Lady Angela Forbes, on 9 April 1923, and was divorced from her in June 1928, on the grounds of her adultery with Captain James Roy Notter Garton.
Zetland played an important role in the protracted negotiations which led to the Government of India Act 1935, which began, subject to the implacable opposition of Winston Churchill and the "diehards" to anything that might imperil direct British rule over India, to implement those ideals.
Having won the largest number of seats in the 2007 general election (26 out of 60) the Labour Party sought to form a coalition with a smaller party.
As part of wide criticism of policies, the resignation of many members and in response to the Brexit negotiations, Sturgeon conducted a major cabinet reshuffle in 2018.
Philip Snowden, the evangelical ex-member of the Independent Labour Party (ILP) became a rigidly orthodox Chancellor of the Exchequer, while the next two prominent members of the party, J.
History The first wholly Whig government since 1783 came to power after the Duke of Wellington's Tory government lost a vote of no confidence on 15 November 1830.
The Rason Ministry was the 8th Ministry of the Government of Western Australia and was led by Ministerialist Premier Hector Rason.
The first Salmond government, which was sworn in on 17 May 2007 at the start of the 3rd Scottish Parliament, was an SNP minority government.
Douglas Alexander enters the Cabinet as Secretary of State for Transport and Secretary of State for Scotland.
23): Although the nominal leadership of the regency lay with John, Duke of Bedford (Gloucester's older brother), he spent most of his time ruling the English territories in France.
Whilst in parliament, he became an assistant government whip in 1931, served as a Lord Commissioner of the Treasury from 1932 to 1935, Vice-Chamberlain of the Household 1935–37 and Comptroller of the Household 1937–38.
The Grenville ministry was a British Government headed by George Grenville which served between 16 April 1763 and 13 July 1765.
After the war, Gwynne Jones remained in the Army, receiving a substantive lieutenant's commission in the South Wales Borderers on 24 August 1946 (with seniority from 5 June 1942), and was promoted to captain on 5 December.
Rockingham was noted for his ignorance of foreign affairs, and his ministry failed to reverse the growing isolation of Britain within Europe (Simms 2008, p.
The following ministers were then appointed to the positions, and served until the reconstitution of the Ministry on 30 June 1909.
George III had a strong dislike of the new government because of the way they had replaced his favourite Bute.
McLeish initially supported the war on terror, however, twenty years on he regrets that the war ultimately turned out as a "war on Islam".
The Liberal government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland that began in 1859 and ended in 1866 consisted of two ministries: the second Palmerston ministry and the second Russell ministry.
This majority continued until Peter Law left Labour in 2005 to sit as an independent on the opposition benches, giving the government 29 and the opposition (excluding the Presiding Officer and Deputy) 29.
Notably for the first time in the assembly's history, parties entitled to seats on the executive could instead opt to go into formal opposition.
On 29 January 1944 he was raised to the peerage as Baron Westwood, of Gosforth in the County of Northumberland.
The Speaker and incumbent ministers from the previous Assembly continued in office in caretaker capacity, a new arrangement introduced by the New Decade, New Approach agreement, but this provision expired in October 2022.
He was replaced by Grant Shapps, who was Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero prior to being appointed as Defence Secretary.
Sir Robert Peel's first government succeeded the caretaker ministry of Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington.
Given that it was not considered appropriate for a prime minister to be a member of the House of Lords, Alec Douglas-Home and Lord Hailsham both disclaimed their peerages under the Peerage Act 1963, and became known respectively as Sir Alec Douglas-Home and Quintin Hogg.
In the early 1920s, he spoke in the House of Commons about socialism, the League of Nations, unemployment and Ireland.
Henry Goulburn was Chancellor of the Exchequer, the future Prime Minister Lord Aberdeen Foreign Secretary and Sir James Graham Home Secretary.
It was also Swinney's final attendance to a Scottish Cabinet, having announced his retirement from government after serving under First Minister Alex Salmond and Sturgeon from 2007 until 2023.
Non-ministerial appointments Parliamentary Private Secretaries Prime Minister's Office Second Church Estates Commissioner Notes == References ==
Additionally, there were two Earls of Nottingham: the elder Nottingham served as Lord Chancellor, and his successor to the earldom served as First Lord of the Admiralty.
The administration was led by three young ministers, collectively known as the chits: Laurence Hyde (Earl of Rochester, 1682), Sidney Godolphin (Lord Godolphin, 1684) and the Robert Spencer, 2nd Earl of Sunderland.
2012 to 2013 In September 2012, Salmond made a snap reshuffle in light of the 2014 Scottish independence referendum.
Due to having to rely on the Protectionists to retain office, half of the ministry was forced to accommodate conservative Protectionists - leading to the government to sometimes be referred to as the Reid-McLean Ministry.
This minority government also managed to stay in power with unofficial deals with the Ulster Unionist Party and Scottish National Party.
His successor in the office is not a Cabinet member Full list of ministers Members of the Cabinet are in bold face.
Following the 5 May 2011 elections to the fourth Northern Ireland Assembly the Democratic Unionist Party and Sinn Féin remained the two largest parties in the Assembly.
Sir Lionel Frederick Heald, (7 August 1897 – 8 November 1981) was a British barrister and Conservative Party politician.
Andrea Leadsom, previously a junior energy minister, and also the final opponent of Theresa May in the 2016 Conservative leadership election, was made environment secretary.
Heath had been elected Leader of the Conservative Party in 1965 – succeeding Alec Douglas-Home – within a few months of the party's election defeat after 13 years in government.
Angus Robertson and Mairi Gourgeon remained in their respective roles as the constitution secretary and rural affairs secretary.
He could not continue as Leader of the House of Lords, having ceased to be a member of it, but was made Minister for Education in April 1964.
The Whig Party held a majority in the House of Commons after the election in 1695, although not all Whig MPs were unswervingly loyal to the Junto.
Simon's Walthamstow constituency was split up at the "Coupon Election" in 1918 and he was defeated at the new Walthamstow East division by a margin of more than 4,000 votes.
The government resigned in early 1855 after a large parliamentary majority voted for a select committee to enquire into the incompetent management of the Crimean War.
Death and succession Fortescue died on his 70th birthday in June 1958, four days after the death of his wife, whose funeral he was too ill to attend.
She was nominated for the post of first minister by a vote of the Scottish Parliament on 18 May, defeating Scottish Conservative leader Douglas Ross and Scottish Liberal Democrat leader Willie Rennie by 64 votes to 31 and 4 respectively.
It is led by Michelle O'Neill of Sinn Féin as First Minister and Emma Little-Pengelly of the DUP as deputy First Minister.
Peace treaty The ministry vigorously pushed for a peace to end the War of the Spanish Succession, leading to the Treaty of Utrecht.
Prior was dismissed as premier by Lieutenant Governor Henri-Gustave Joly de Lotbinière over a conflict of interest scandal that implicated several ministers, including Prior.
Ministries of the Welsh Government See also List of British governments List of Northern Ireland Executives List of Scottish governments
Gwyneth's daughter Tamsin Dunwoody was also a politician, as a Member of the National Assembly for Wales from 2003 to 2007.
Lord Buckinghamshire (Lord Hobart before November 1804) succeeds Mulgrave at the Duchy of Lancaster.
Ben Wallace resigned as Secretary of State for Defence and was replaced by Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero Grant Shapps.
Two weeks later, on October 4, Brown resigned from cabinet, and Prentice regained the portfolios while also remaining minister of finance and agriculture.
He was a Senator of the College of Justice from 1974 to 1990, and later served as a Justice of Appeal in the Republic of Botswana from 1994 to 1996.
The government was replaced by the Drakeford government on 13 December 2018, following the resignation of Carwyn Jones as First Minister the previous day.
Adding to the charge against Simon was the claim that the administration of Herbert Hoover wanted to have the United States act against Japan and that Simon spurred the American offer.
James Drake, who died in 1941, was the last surviving member of the Reid ministry; Drake was also the last surviving minister of the Barton government and the First Deakin ministry.
The second Drakeford government was the Labour-led government formed after the 2021 Senedd Election on 6 May 2021, with Mark Drakeford re-appointed as First Minister without opposition on 12 May 2021.
Arthur Woodburn (25 October 1890 – 1 June 1978) was a Scottish Labour Party politician who was Secretary of State for Scotland from 1947 to 1950.
The Home Secretary Lord Shelburne was appointed to succeed him, but several members of the government refused to serve under him and resigned.
The last holdover from Blair's government was Lord Grocott, who stayed on as Chief Whip in the Lords and Captain of the Gentlemen at Arms.
The ministry was replaced by the Reid ministry on 17 August 1904 after the Protectionist Party withdrew their support over the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill.
Loss of majority and ministerial resignations Johnson lost his working majority on 3 September 2019, when Phillip Lee crossed the floor to join the Liberal Democrats.
Gwilym Lloyd George, younger son of former Liberal Party leader and Prime Minister David Lloyd George, replaced Sir David Maxwell Fyfe as Home Secretary in 1954.
History Upon the fall of the North ministry in March 1782, Whig Charles Watson-Wentworth, 2nd Marquess of Rockingham became prime minister for a second time.
Cabinet Deputy ministers See also Shadow Cabinet (Wales) Members of the 6th Senedd 2021 Senedd election 2021 Welsh Labour–Plaid Cymru agreement == References ==
Benn said that he would "stay off the buses, even if I have to find a bike", and Labour leader Harold Wilson also told an anti-apartheid rally in London he was "glad that so many Bristolians are supporting the [boycott] campaign", adding that he "wish[ed] them every success".
She was also appointed Minister of State in the Cabinet Office (Minister without Portfolio), but did not initially attend Cabinet.
Estate In 1946 the Duke transferred most of his assets to his only surviving son in an attempt to avoid a repeat of the heavy death duties which the 9th Duke had had to pay in 1908.
Five more of the original Alliance Government MPs have announced they would not be seeking reelection.
Personal life In 1930 Phillips married fellow Labour Party activist Morgan Phillips, a Welsh former miner and later the General Secretary of the Labour Party 1944–1961.
One of the major problems was that it included no figure capable of taking the lead in the House of Commons.
Formation The change of leader from Margaret Thatcher to John Major saw a dramatic turnaround in Conservative support, with the double-digit lead in the opinion polls for the Labour Party being replaced by a narrow Conservative one by the turn of 1991.
Palmerston thereafter successfully devoted his energies to bringing down Russell's government, leading to the formation of a minority Conservative government under Lord Derby in February 1852.
It was formed after the previous Prime Minister, the Earl of Bute, had resigned following fierce criticism of his signing of the Treaty of Paris with its perceived lenient terms for France and Spain despite Britain's successes in the Seven Years War.
The nominal head of the ministry was Spencer Compton, 1st Earl of Wilmington, until his death in 1743.
Sylvia Foot, Emergency Exit (Chatto & Windus, 1960) - memoir by his wife External links Entry in Encyclopædia Britannica
Having signed the Munich Agreement with Hitler in 1938, Chamberlain became alarmed by the dictator's continuing aggression and, in March 1939, signed the Anglo-Polish military alliance which supposedly guaranteed British support for Poland if attacked.
Former prime minister William Pitt the Younger reassumed the premiership of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland in 1804, succeeding Henry Addington as First Lord of the Treasury and Chancellor of the Exchequer.
Early life and education Darling's grandfather, Thomas Darling, was agent for James Tomkinson, Liberal MP for Crewe from 1900 to 1910.
It succeeded the Second Leake Ministry on 1 July 1902 following the death of the previous Premier, George Leake, on 24 June 1902.
Charles II's illegitimate son James Scott, 1st Duke of Monmouth was included in the new government because he was popular with the public.
Career After Cambridge Darling chose to enter journalism, before becoming the head of research and information at the Co-operative Wholesale Society from 1930 to 1937.
Benn's absence from the contest was reported by The Glasgow Herald to leave Neil Kinnock as "the favourite Left-wing candidate".
After the death of the previous prime minister, his brother Henry Pelham, Newcastle had formed a new administration of Whigs.
The original idea was that the National Government would be free to draw upon the talents of members of all parties, so that it would represent the nation as a whole rather than being a coalition of parties like those which had existed between 1915 and 1922.
It succeeded the James Ministry on 10 August 1904 after the 1904 election boosted Labor's seat count from 8 to 22 in the 50-seat Legislative Assembly.
Lord Palmerston, of the Whigs, first formed a government by popular demand in 1855, after the resignation of the Aberdeen Coalition.
Following Rhodri Morgan's decision to retire, a leadership contest was held for the position of Welsh Labour Leader.
Leake advised the Governor to dissolve Parliament, but the request was declined and on 12 November, Leake advised the Legislative Assembly that as soon as the Supply Bill had passed a third reading, his government would resign.
Until 1717, he held the position of Northern Secretary and was the de facto leader of the Whig administration.
Norah Mary Phillips, Baroness Phillips, JP (née Lusher; 12 August 1910 – 14 August 1992) was an English educator, Labour Party politician, magistrate and the founder of consumer and women's groups.
It is the first federal government in Australian history to be elected with a majority in the House of Representatives, as well as the first majority national Labor government in the world.
Edward William Spencer Cavendish, 10th Duke of Devonshire (6 May 1895 – 26 November 1950), known as the Marquess of Hartington from 1908 to 1938, was a British politician.
The Broad Bottom ministry was the factional coalition government of Great Britain between 1744 and 1754.
Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt was appointed to replace Johnson, whilst Hunt's former post was filled by Culture Secretary Matthew Hancock.
February 2022 – 5 July 2022 Changes Oliver Dowden resigned as Co-Chairman of the Conservative Party and Minister without Portfolio on 24 June 2022 following the Conservative defeats at the Tiverton and Honiton by-election and Wakefield by-election.
Heald was junior counsel to the Board of Trade from 1931 to 1937, when he was appointed King's Counsel.
Alex Salmond formed the second Salmond government on 19 May 2011 following his Scottish National Party's landslide victory in the 2011 election to the 4th Scottish Parliament.
The tax liability led to the transfer of Hardwick Hall to the National Trust, and the sale of many of the Devonshires' accumulated assets, including tens of thousands of acres of land, and many works of art and rare books.
He was promoted lieutenant colonel in command in 1924 and colonel in 1930 and in 1935 he became Colonel Commandant of the Honourable Artillery Company.
The most influential member of the government was Thomas Pelham-Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle, a former prime minister, who served as Lord Privy Seal.
Devonshire was left to lead a ministry that was manifestly far too weak to survive long—particularly in wartime.
This reform assisted women by linking pensions to the 'twenty best years' of earnings, and those who worked at home caring for children or others were counted as contributors.
Palmerston was heavily criticised by Parliament in 1857 over the conduct of the Second Opium War and called a dissolution, but the nation voiced its support in the resulting general election and he returned with a Whig majority.
Between 1757 and 1762, at the height of the Seven Years' War, the Pitt–Newcastle ministry governed the Kingdom of Great Britain.
Supporting these peers were two unofficial whips in the House of Lords: the earls of Sunderland and Portland.
In Committee however, as one study noted, "it was soon made evident that if all the provisions of the Bill were adhered to, it would never get through," so in the end the bill was limited to the female voting age provision.
Notes References Chris Cook and John Stevenson, British Historical Facts 1760–1830 Joseph Haydn and Horace Ockerby, The Book of Dignities
Macmillan chose Dundee minister without portfolio from 1958 to 1961 owing to a wealth of experiences at home and abroad.
The second Broad Bottom administration lasted from Pelham's resumption of power until his death in 1754.
Rajoy himself was facing increased pressure for independence from Spain in Catalonia, and as such, said that "an independent Scotland could only apply to join the EU from outside the organisation as a new state".
The Rule of Democracy, 1905–1914 (vol 6 of "History of the English People, 1905–1914") (1934); online Hay, James Roy.
The Conservative Government of the United Kingdom that began in 1922 and ended in 1924 consisted of two ministries: the Law ministry (from 1922 to 1923) and then the first Baldwin ministry (from 1923 onwards).
List of ministers See also Executive Council of Alberta List of Alberta provincial ministers References Works cited Further reading Alberta.
It was a very unsure period as no one knew if James would come back, or if the people would accept a new king.
Jayne Bryant, the previous Mental Health and Early Years Minister, was made Cabinet Secretary for Local Government and Housing, replacing Julie James.
His father was an Anglo-Irish businessman and politician who graduated with a law degree from Cambridge University before entering politics as a member of the London County Council and then, in 1910, as a member of the British House of Commons, later serving as Governor General of Canada.
As the name suggests, the ministry was a coalition of the groups supporting Charles James Fox and Lord North.
Ministry Principal ministers of the Crown were as follows: See also 11th Parliament of Great Britain Whigs (British political party) Notes == References ==
She was the first Roman Catholic life peeress and was the first female government whip in the House of Lords, as Baroness-in-Waiting 1965–70.
It was this government which would conduct the Second Boer War from 1899–1902, which helped them to win a landslide victory at the 1900 general election.
Defeat The government lost its majority at the 1911 general election, but managed to stay in office with the support of independent MPs until the following year.
The second McConnell government (20 May 2003 – 16 May 2007) was formed following the 2003 general election to the 2nd Scottish Parliament.
Improvements were made in conditions for nursing staff following the publication of a report by the NBPI in 1968 on the pay of nurses.
In the latter post, he served for nine years during which he oversaw crises such as the Abdication Crisis of Edward VIII.
At first, Leader of the Opposition Frederick Henry Piesse was asked to form a Ministry, but on 18 November he advised that he had been unable to form an acceptable Ministry, and Alf Morgans was sent for.
July 1988 – Department of Health and Social Security broken up into component parts: John Moore continues on as Secretary of State for Social Security.
This is a list of the principal Ministers of the Crown of the Kingdom of England, and then of the Kingdom of Great Britain, from May 1702, at the beginning of the reign of Queen Anne.
Cabinet December 1868 – February 1874 Notes † The Earl de Grey was created the Marquess of Ripon in 1871.
Lord Clarendon was impeached by the House of Commons and forced to flee; the Duke of Albemarle sold his position to George Villiers, 2nd Duke of Buckingham; and Sir George Carteret simply left his position, eventually being forced out of the House two years later.
He was the first Tory prime minister since the Harley ministry during 1710–1714 though his ministry was largely made up of Whigs.
May 1940 – Sir Terence O'Connor dies and no new Solicitor General is appointed before the government falls.
On 20 October 2022, amid growing disapproval of her leadership from within the Conservative Party, Truss announced her resignation, making her tenure the shortest in the history of the United Kingdom.
After several scandals including allegations of the sale of honours, the Conservatives withdrew their support after a meeting at the Carlton Club in 1922, and Bonar Law formed a government.
Both had been political advisers to her at the Home Office, then worked outside government for a brief period before coming back to work on her leadership campaign.
*** Indicates that the individual was either sacked or quit and held no ministerial role in the next government.
Defeated by the Conservative incumbent in Sunderland South in the 1955 and 1959 General Elections, Armstrong was Member of Parliament (MP) for North West Durham from 1964 until his retirement in 1987.
He contributed an article on The Strategic Defence Initiative to the Conservative Monday Club's October 1985 Conservative Party Conference issue of their newspaper, Right Ahead.
In a break from the previous non-partisan governments, it was the first to be composed on party lines, and consisted of members of the Conservative Party.
The Impact of Hitler: British Politics and British Policy, 1933–1940 (Cambridge University Press, 1975).
With inflation firmly under control and union reforms contributing towards the lowest level of strikes since the early 1950s, the Conservatives were now faced with the challenge of reducing unemployment from a record high of 3,200,000.
Following his resignation, the environment portfolio was combined with that of rural development, planning was added to the transport portfolio, and the sport and culture portfolio was given Deputy Minister Allan Wilson without a promotion to minister.
Stimson calling for a joint Anglo-American declaration stating that they would never establish diplomatic relations with the sham state of Manchukuo, which was viewed in Japan as a pro-Japanese gesture that reflected a quiet sympathy for Japan's actions.
In 2014, Lib Dem minister Norman Lamb warned that "it could be enormously damaging for [the Lib Dems]" if the party went into coalition with Miliband's Labour.
It succeeded the Morgans Ministry on 23 December 1901 after a series of ministerial by-elections to confirm that ministry resulted in half of the ministry being defeated by Opposition and Labour candidates.
He was educated at elementary school in Crewe, and started work at 14 in the railway sheds of the town.
However, no clear winner emerged from the April 1901 state election, and rather than test his support in the Assembly, Throssell and the Ministry he led resigned on 27 May 1901, allowing the Leake Ministry led by Opposition Leader George Leake to take office.
May 2003 – Clare Short resigns and is succeeded by Baroness Amos as International Development Secretary.
Yousaf offered Kate Forbes, who he had beaten in the leadership race, a demotion as rural affairs secretary, but she turned down this offer and left government.
In the 2003 Scottish Parliament election, the Labour–Liberal Democrat coalition was renewed and Jack McConnell returned to a second term as first minister and formed a second administration.
The ministry, a Conservative majority government, succeeded the second Cameron ministry which had been formed following the 2015 general election.
It ended on 20 May 2003 following the 2003 election to the 2nd Scottish parliament, which saw McConnell returning to office as first minister to form a second government.
Lord Bessborough died in December 1993, aged 80, when the earldom of Bessborough created in the Peerage of the United Kingdom for his father in 1937 became extinct.
Chalfont was the author of several military history books on subjects including the Napoleonic Wars.
This deadline was later extended to 29 June after Prime Minister, Theresa May's decision to call a snap general election for 8 June 2017.
He was Secretary of the Scottish Council of the Labour Party from 1932 to 1939, and President of the National Council of Labour Colleges from 1937 to 1965.
Gilruth was succeeded by Neil Gray who was appointed Minister for Culture, Europe and International Development and Minister with special responsibility for Refugees from Ukraine.
Prime Minister, the Cabinet Office and non-Departmental ministers Departments of state Law officers Parliament Whips References General Ministers in the Labour Governments: 1997–2010 – Parliamentary Information List, House of Commons Library, 3 July 2012 D.
Military career The then Marquess of Hartington began service with the Territorial Army as a second lieutenant in the Derbyshire Yeomanry in 1913.
He was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for war services in 1942 and Companion of the Order of the Bath in the 1946 Birthday Honours.
Fate The Conservative Party, with the support of the Liberal Unionists, gained a decisive victory in the July 1886 general election, and Lord Salisbury once again became prime minister.
The Michael administration was formed by Alun Michael following the 1999 National Assembly for Wales election and was a Labour minority administration.
He died on 2 January 1986, aged 84, and was succeeded in the barony by his son Robin Evelyn Leo Vanden-Bempde-Johnstone.
The National Government of 1935–1937 was formed by Stanley Baldwin on his reappointment as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by King George V, following the resignation of Ramsay MacDonald in June 1935.
She was made a life peer on 21 December 1964 as Baroness Phillips, of Fulham in the County of London.
Parliamentary career At the 1950 general election, Heald was elected as member of parliament for the Chertsey constituency in Surrey, having been previously defeated in St Pancras South West in the 1945 general election.
Butler (ed.), Twentieth Century British Political Facts 1900–2000 Notes External links "Ministerial Departures since 1997 – Parliamentary Information List" (PDF).
In addition, a new post of Deputy Minister for Transport and Planning in line with the expanded transport portfolio.
Shortly after 1879 her grandfather Hugh Fortescue, 4th Earl Fortescue (1854–1932), Master of the Devon and Somerset Staghounds 1880/81–87, had acquired the reversion of the whole of the former Royal Forest of Exmoor after the death of Frederick Winn Knight.
Cabinets June 1866 – February 1868 Notes This Cabinet of Derby's is the first for which a complete collection of photographs exists of its members.
Leading members See also 11th Parliament of Great Britain 1757 in Great Britain Notes References Works cited == Further reading ==
It succeeded the Rason Ministry on 7 May 1906 after Rason resigned to accept an appointment as Agent-General for Western Australia in London.
Derby's health, however, had been in decline for some time, and he finally resigned in February and advised Queen Victoria to send for Disraeli.
Halifax wanted to sue for peace by asking Benito Mussolini to broker a treaty between the British government and Hitler.
Woodburn was an unsuccessful candidate for Edinburgh South in 1929 and Edinburgh Leith in 1931; he was Member of Parliament (MP) for Clackmannan and East Stirlingshire from 1939 until 1970.
June 1939 – Herwald Ramsbotham succeeds Sir Philip Sassoon (deceased) as First Commissioner of Works and is succeeded as Minister of Pensions by Sir Walter Womersley.
Cabinet Junior ministers See also List of Welsh Assembly Governments 2003 National Assembly for Wales election Members of the 2nd National Assembly for Wales == References ==
Dewar was re-elected in the 1978 Glasgow Garscadden by-election and served as the MP until his death in 2000.
History Eluned Morgan was nominated and appointed to succeed Vaughan Gething as first minister of Wales on 6 August 2024.
However, Goderich's government never even met in a session of Parliament, and was replaced by a High Tory government under the Duke of Wellington on 22 January 1828.
References Leigh Rayment's Peerage Pages Leigh Rayment's Historical List of MPs External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Albert Murray
Castle Hill is now the home of her daughter Eleanor, Countess of Arran (née van Cutsem) and her husband Arthur Gore, 9th Earl of Arran.
This government did not long survive the hostility of King George III, and many of Shelburne's ministers returned to office under the leadership of William Pitt the Younger in December 1783, though Shelburne himself was consoled with the title Marquess of Lansdowne.
He remained in power until 1756 when his government collapsed following the fall of Minorca and the fierce criticism that he had come under for his handling of the Seven Years' War that was engulfing Europe.
A new coalition government (officially referred to as the Coalition Partnership) was officially announced on 5 October 2000 with policy details emerging the day later.
Butler continued to serve under him for another two years, but devotes only a single paragraph to this period in his memoirs.
Cabinet Changes November 2005 – David Blunkett resigns his post as Secretary of State for Work and Pensions.
Margaret Thatcher was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 4 May 1979 to 28 November 1990, during which time she led a Conservative majority government.
Fate The Duke oversaw the introduction of Catholic Emancipation, but remained resolutely opposed to parliamentary reform, and as a result lost a vote of no confidence on 15 November 1830.
Harold Macmillan, formerly Foreign Secretary and Chancellor of the Exchequer, was chosen over Rab Butler as the new party leader and consequently as prime minister.
Upon Lord Stanhope's death, Robert Walpole, widely considered the first true Prime Minister of Great Britain, returned to head the government.
He was Conservative Member of Parliament for Flintshire from 1945 to 1950 and for West Flintshire from 1950 to 1970.
The government oversaw the establishment of Crown rule in India, but was still not strong enough to retain power, falling in June 1859.
Sam Galbraith and Angus MacKay stood down and Jackie Baillie, Sarah Boyack and Tom McCabe reshuffled out of government, while Susan Deacon was offered the post of social justice minister but refused the offer and moved to the backbenches.
Following the eruption of a scandal involving the improper granting of land, Prior fired the two ministers implicated, David McEwen Eberts and Wilmer Cleveland Wells.
2 The responsibility for Education lay with the Colonial Secretary in the Forrest Ministry except during the period 19 December 1894 – 28 April 1898.
The Ministry of All the Talents had comparatively little success, failing to bring the sought-after peace with France.
It governed Canada from 11 July 1896 to 5 October 1911, including all of the 8th, 9th, 10th, and 11th Canadian Parliaments.
He also had company directorships with The Alliance Insurance Company of Britain and the Bank of Australasia.
6th Executive of Northern Ireland See also List of Northern Ireland Executives 7th Northern Ireland Assembly == References ==
Following negotiations with the Plaid Cymru leader, a second vote on 18 May saw Jones re-elected unopposed as First Minister, enabling him to begin the process of forming a minority government.
When the king fell ill and his brother's return from the Dutch Republic caused alarm in the country, Temple expressed his concerns to the triumvirate but was no longer taken seriously.
April 1863 – George Robinson, 3rd Earl de Grey becomes Secretary for War following Sir George Lewis's death.
Career Salter joined the Civil Service in 1904 and worked in the transport department of the Admiralty, on national insurance, and as private secretary, being promoted to Assistant Secretary grade in 1913.
Thus the First Lord of the Treasury came to be the most powerful minister and the prototype of Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and its dominions.
All of those children are being cheated of a sound start in life." In May 1988, Margaret Thatcher's Conservative government introduced Section 28.
Humza Yousaf succeeded Sturgeon as first minister, forming his first cabinet of the Scottish Government on 29 March 2023.
Simon and Smith began a rivalry that lasted throughout their legal and political careers over the next 30 years.
Family Somervell married Loelia Helen Buchan-Hepburn, daughter of Sir Archibald Buchan-Hepburn, 4th Baronet, in 1933.
5 July 2022 – 6 September 2022 Changes Sajid Javid resigned as Secretary of State for Health and Social Care on 5 July.
"The Struggle for Mastery in Britain: Lloyd George versus Asquith, December 1916." Journal of British Studies 18#1 (1978): 131–156.
The Second Leake Ministry was the fifth Ministry of the Government of Western Australia and was led by Premier George Leake, who had hitherto been the Leader of the Opposition.
The fourth Rhodri Morgan government (19 July 2007 – 10 December 2009) was a Labour–Plaid Cymru coalition government of Wales led by First Minister for Wales, Rhodri Morgan.
His spot in the cabinet was filled by Zac Goldsmith, who was made Minister of State at the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and at the Department for International Development on 10 September 2019.
The government was widely criticised for its handling of foreign affairs, particularly for allowing the Republic of Corsica, a British ally, to fall to the French during the Corsican Crisis.
Political career After leaving Oxford, he joined the Territorial Army on 8 April 1927, as a second lieutenant in the 6th/7th Battalion of the Black Watch.
He was President of the National Union of Railwaymen from 1934 to 1937 before being succeeded by Walter T.
After the Labour Party won the 1964 general election, Foot became Minister of State for Foreign Affairs and Permanent Representatives from the United Kingdom to the United Nations from 1964 to 1970.
The government included several men from the previous administration, but four of the most important, Lords Dudley and Palmerston and Messrs Huskisson and Grant, resigned in May 1828.
Norman Russell Wylie, Lord Wylie, (26 October 1923 – 7 September 2005) was a Scottish Conservative and Scottish Unionist politician, lawyer, and judge.
Edward Henry Vanden-Bempde-Johnstone, younger son of Harcourt Vanden-Bempde-Johnstone, 1st Baron Derwent.
Speaking to the Oxford Union on the alleged overshadowing of the EU debate by "UKIP and Tory backbenchers", he said:I took the view that having fought [Europeans in the Second World War] that we should now work with them, and co-operate, and that was my first thought about it.
Cabinet Changes 20 December 1955 reshuffle Rab Butler succeeded Harry Crookshank as Lord Privy Seal and Leader of the House of Commons.
Derek Colclough Walker-Smith, Baron Broxbourne, (13 April 1910 – 22 January 1992), known as Sir Derek Walker-Smith, Bt, from 1960 to 1983, was a British Conservative Party politician.
The Asquith coalition ministry was the Government of the United Kingdom under the Liberal prime minister H.
Changes August 1876: Beaconsfield succeeds the Earl of Malmesbury as Lord Privy Seal while remaining First Lord of the Treasury.
Simultaneously he was Assistant Deputy Leader of the House of Lords from 1960 to 1962 and Deputy Leader of the House of Lords from 1962 to 1964.
He travelled hastily to the capital and met the King at Richmond Lodge who invited him to form a government.
The Shops Act 1950 consolidated previous legislation which provided that no one could be employed in a shop for more than six hours without having a break for at least 20 minutes.
Brown was an ally of former premier Joseph Martin, and his appointment was opposed by Richard McBride – Martin's political rival – who resigned from cabinet in protest.
The Labour Party chose to go into minority government, and Rhodri Morgan was re-elected first minister on 26 May 2007.
The Ministry of All the Talents was a national unity government in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland formed by William Grenville, 1st Baron Grenville, on his appointment as prime minister on 11 February 1806, following the death of William Pitt the Younger.
Cabinet Junior ministers Retirement of Rhodri Morgan See also Members of the 3rd National Assembly for Wales == References ==
He continued serving after the war with his regiment, which became 24 (Derbyshire Yeomanry) Armoured Car Company of the Royal Tank Regiment in 1923.
The first McConnell government was formed by Jack McConnell on 27 November 2001 during the 1st Scottish Parliament, following Henry McLeish's resignation as First Minister of Scotland as a consequence of the Officegate scandal.
In 1919, Woodburn married Barbara Halliday, a teacher who was elected to the Edinburgh Town Council.
In 1935, he was PPS to the Secretary of State for Scotland before being promoted as Under-Secretary of State for Scotland until the outbreak of the war.
Stanley Baldwin of the Conservative Party formed the second Baldwin ministry upon his reappointment as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom by King George V after the 1924 general election.
The Labour Party had won a landslide victory at the 1945 general election, and went on to enact policies of what became known as the post-war consensus, including the establishment of the welfare state and the nationalisation of 20 per cent of the entire economy.
Shapps was replaced as Energy Secretary by Claire Coutinho, who was a junior minister in the Department for Education at the time, Coutinho herself being replaced by backbencher David Johnston.
The government dissolved and was succeeded by the McLeish government in the aftermath of Dewar's death on 11 October 2000.
During the Nootka Sound Controversy in 1790, Pitt took advantage of the alliance to force Spain to give up its claim to exclusive control over the western coast of North and South America.
Angela Constance, who previously served in the cabinets of Alex Salmond and Nicola Sturgeon, returned to cabinet as the justice secretary.
2 Richard Pennefather had served as Attorney-General since 27 October 1897 as part of the Forrest Ministry.
In respective order, the MPs who left government are Gilbert Licudi (GSLP), Paul Balban (GSLP), Albert Isola (GSLP), Samantha Sacramento (GSLP) and Steven Linares (LPG).
Rochester, brother-in-law of King Charles II's brother James, Duke of York, served as First Lord of the Treasury until "kicked upstairs" (term coined by Lord Halifax) as Lord President of the Council in September 1684.
Jones maintained the existing One Wales coalition agreement with Plaid Cymru, established by Morgan.
It is often referred to as the only government ever to have been made up almost entirely of members of the Jockey Club, with Rockingham himself being a prominent patron and follower of the turf.
Following the war he went to India where he served as an instructor at the Cavalry School at Sangor.
The government was also supported by the sole Welsh Liberal Democrat MS Kirsty Williams and the independent MS Dafydd Elis-Thomas.
In 1916, when promoted captain, he rejoined his regiment, in Egypt, and served in the latter stages of the Dardanelles campaign.
On 4 October 1954 Somervell became a Lord of Appeal in Ordinary and, as a Law Lord, he received a life peerage as Baron Somervell of Harrow, of Ewelme in the County of Oxford.
During the First World War (1914–18) he served in France as a regimental officer for the Scots Greys, followed by the Royal Corps of Signals.
A young William Ewart Gladstone held office as a Junior Lord of the Treasury, his first governmental post in a ministerial career that would span for the next sixty years.
Political life Entering politics, he was a minister in the Foreign and Commonwealth Office from 1964 to 1970 and from 1964 was appointed to the Privy Council.
In addition to the £20 million contributed by HM Treasury, the Foreign Office contributed £10 million whilst the Scottish Executive was expected to pay the remaining £65 million.
She was a long-serving London magistrate and co-founder of the National Association of Women's Clubs (1935).
Life Armstrong was educated at Wolsingham Grammar School and City of Leeds Teacher Training College, and ultimately became a headmaster.
On 29 June 2017, the DUP and Sinn Féin had both announced that they had not come to an agreement to form the next Northern Ireland Executive.
The government was led by Bonar Law and Stanley Baldwin, appointed respectively as Prime Minister by King George V.
His grave can be found in the grounds of Saint Mary's Church in Ewelme, opposite that of the writer Jerome K.
Dundee was successfully promoted to number two in the Foreign Office as Minister of State for Foreign Affairs from 1961 to 1964.
Cabinet See also 1722 British general election 1727 British general election 5th Parliament of Great Britain Whigs (British political party) Notes == References ==
Asquith, Venetia Stanley, and Edwin Montagu, Based on the Life and Letters of Edwin Samuel Montagu (NYU Press, 1991).
He was admitted to the Privy Council in 1952 and received the very great honour of being appointed a Knight Companion of the Order of the Garter in 1951.
Sturgeon's cabinet dissolved on 18 May 2016 following the 2016 election to the 5th Scottish parliament, which saw Sturgeon returning to office and forming a second government.
Osborne was also given the honorific title of First Secretary of State, which had been held by William Hague in the preceding ministry.
While the term was in common parlance in the 19th and early 20th centuries, it has become rarer, except in official and academic uses.
Newspaper clippings about Lawrence Dundas, 2nd Marquess of Zetland in the 20th Century Press Archives of the ZBW
They had a son and a daughter, with their daughter Gwyneth Dunwoody, becoming a long-serving Labour Member of Parliament.
Social Services and welfare Increased funds were allocated to social services during the first Wilson government's time in office.
In September 1912, he was appointed (with Lord Islington, Herbert Fisher, Mr Justice Abdur Rahim, and others) as a member of the Royal Commission on the Public Services in India of 1912–1915.
Flight Sergeant Lord Bruce Thomas Dundas (18 October 1920 – 24 February 1942), killed in action with the Royal Air Force Volunteer Reserve.
July 2014 – May 2015 Changes On 5 August 2014, Baroness Warsi resigned as Minister of State at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, and as Minister for Faith and Community, in protest at the Government's response to the conflict in the Gaza Strip.
He argued that traditional social democratic values were under threat in an increasingly globalised world in which powerful institutions such as the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the European Commission are unelected and unaccountable to those whose lives they affect daily.
After the official Liberal Party withdrew from the latter government in 1933, another faction, the National Liberals, remained in coalition with the Conservatives.
The government was brought down by Peel's decision in 1846 to support the repeal of the Corn Laws, leading to a split in the Tory party and the formation of a Whig government under Lord John Russell.
Early in 1852 Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington, by then very deaf, gave Derby's first government its nickname by shouting "Who?
This is a list of members of the government of the United Kingdom in office under the leadership of Spencer Perceval from 1809 to 1812.
Initially the ministers were largely identical to those at the end of the first Johnson ministry, excepting the Secretary of State for Wales, in which position Simon Hart replaced Alun Cairns.
It was the successor of the Cabal ministry which fell from power when the Catholicism of some members became a problem for parliament.
He served as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster in the short-lived Churchill caretaker ministry (May–July 1945).
He was succeeded in the Irish earldom of Bessborough and the remaining family titles by his first cousin, Arthur Ponsonby.
He was also Honorary Colonel of the 6th Battalion of the Sherwood Foresters from 1917 to 1937, and of its successor, the 40th (Sherwood Foresters) Anti-Aircraft Battalion of the Royal Engineers.
However, the administration was not a true national unity government as it was made up primarily of Conservatives with support from some National Labour and National Liberal members.
Robert Jenkinson, 2nd Earl of Liverpool was invited by the Prince Regent to form a government on 8 June 1812.
19 February 1942: Attlee is appointed Deputy Prime Minister with general responsibility for domestic affairs.
After much negotiation, Montagu, Somers, and Orford were given places within the new ministry, with Montagu and Somers accepting, and Orford stating that he would rather be "drawn through a horse-pond" than be First Commissioner of the Admiralty.
The king would give full consideration to the opinions of the council, which would be free to discuss and vote on all matters.
The first devolved executive of Scotland, it consisted of Scottish Labour and the Scottish Liberal Democrats, who formed a coalition on 14 May 1999.
In order to maintain a comfortable parliamentary majority, Grafton had drawn the Bedford Whigs (Earl Gower, Viscount Weymouth, and the Earl of Hillsborough) into the ministry at the end of 1767.
He served as Solicitor General and Attorney General from 1933 to 1945 and was briefly Home Secretary in Winston Churchill's 1945 caretaker government.
The Watson ministry (Labour) was the 3rd ministry of the Government of Australia, and the first national Labour government formed in the world.
David Lloyd George: a political life: Organizer of Victory: 1912–1916 (1987) online Gilbert, Bentley Brinkerhoff.
The Junto oversaw the creation of the Bank of England in 1694, but by 1699 the Junto's power had declined in the face of opposition by Robert Harley and the Tories.
History Formation The Duke of Wellington finally came to power after the abortive attempt at a Canningite-Whig coalition government came to an end with Viscount Goderich's resignation in January 1828.
The first Jones government (10 December 2009 – 11 May 2011) was a continuation of the previous Labour–Plaid Cymru coalition government in Wales.
External links Hansard 1803–2005: contributions in Parliament by Arthur Woodburn National Library of Scotland catalogue of papers National Library of Scotland additional papers
On 7 and 8 May 1940, a two-day debate took place in Parliament, known to history as the Norway Debate.
Donald Dewar formed the Dewar government on 17 May 1999 following his appointment as the inaugural First Minister of Scotland.
Cabinet Changes May 2002 – Stephen Byers resigns and the Department of Transport, Local Government & the Regions is broken up.
While not an official coalition, it would be the first time in both Scottish and UK history that Green politicians would be in government.
Although supporting the Liberal Party by inclination, its decline and his admiration for Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin led him to join the Conservative Party.
Serena Frances Fairfax; Nicholas Fairfax, 14th Lord Fairfax of Cameron, who married Annabella Ruth, eldest daughter of Nicholas and Sarah Gilham Morriss, and succeeded his father; The Hon.
Following the 2 March 2017 elections to the sixth Northern Ireland Assembly, the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) and Sinn Féin remained the two largest parties in the Assembly.
History Following the defeat of the campaign for Scottish independence in a 2014 referendum, then First Minister Alex Salmond, who had arranged the referendum, announced that he would resign as Scottish National Party leader and first minister after a new leader was chosen.
Edward Stanhope succeeds him at the Board of Trade; his successor as Vice-President of the Council is not in the Cabinet.
William Gladstone, who was yet to join the Liberal Party, became a member of the cabinet for the first time in 1843 when he was appointed President of the Board of Trade.
The Baldwin Age (1960), essays by scholars 252 pages; online Archived 10 October 2019 at the Wayback Machine Smart, Nick.
The second Sturgeon government was an SNP minority government and despite the whipping and resignation of some MSPs, this was also returned by Labour and Conservative opposition MSPs.
The Duke of Newcastle stays on as Secretary of State for War, while Sir George Grey becomes Secretary of State for the Colonies.
Background and education Salter was the eldest son of James Edward Salter (1857–1937) of the Thames boating company Salters Steamers, and who became Mayor of Oxford in 1909.
The ministry was replaced by the Second Deakin ministry on 5 July 1905 after the Protectionists withdrew their support and returned to office with the support of the Labour Party.
Lady Margaret devoted much time to attempting to put the Exmoor estate, purchased by her grandfather largely for his sporting interest, onto a profitable footing.
Billy Hughes, who died in 1952, was the last surviving member of the Watson ministry; Hughes was also the last surviving member of the First Fisher ministry, Third Fisher ministry, Second Hughes ministry and Third Hughes ministry.
Woodburn died in Edinburgh on 1 June 1978, aged 87, after a car crash he was involved in when driving to visit his wife in hospital.
Lady Doris was the eldest daughter of Terence Hamilton-Temple-Blackwood, 2nd Marquess of Dufferin and Ava.
John Elvidge stood down as the Permanent Secretary to the Scottish Government in June 2010 and was succeeded by Peter Housden.
Lord Derwent married Marie-Louise Henriette Picard, daughter of Albert Picard of Paris, France, in 1929.
In July 2022, following a government crisis as a result of dozens of resignations from his government, Johnson announced his resignation as leader of the Conservative Party.
In 2001 she gave a lengthy interview for the Exmoor Oral History Archive of the Dulverton and District Civic Society, which provides a valuable insight into many aspects of modern Devon history.
References Chris Cook and John Stevenson, British Historical Facts 1760–1830 Joseph Haydn and Horace Ockerby, The Book of Dignities Notes
The Second Fisher ministry succeeded the Third Deakin ministry, which dissolved on 29 April 1910 following the federal election that took place on 13 April which saw Labor defeat the Alfred Deakin's Liberal Party.
He then joined the Inner Temple, but his legal training was interrupted by the outbreak of the First World War.
Long standing ministers such as Shona Robison and Angela Constance announced their resignation due to personal circumstances, with Keith Brown resigning to take his role as SNP Depute Leader.
This is a list of the principal government ministers during the reign of Elizabeth I of England, 1558 to 1603.
The King disliked Pitt, but Pitt's influence in the Commons had led to his crucial appointment as Southern Secretary in a ministry nominally headed by Devonshire.
On 11 May, Churchill met Morrison and Ernest Bevin, the coalition's minister of labour, telling them that he wished to maintain the coalition until Japan had been defeated.
Godolphin, First Lord of the Treasury 1684–85, was retained at the Treasury by William III, returning as First Lord in the Carmarthen Ministry of 1690.
The other Liberal faction in the Ministry, the Liberal National Party, had accepted the Conservative policy of protectionism before the National government had been formed so its ministers continued in office.
Author Nancy Kilpatrick, after reading Death Moon in preparation for writing the following Jason X novel, called it "pretty damned weird." Nat Brehmer of Bloody Disgusting opined that author Alex S.
They then moved to their own women-only island, where, in the absence of male oppression, they grew progressively stronger and lived a longer life.
Stargate SG-1 was also nominated for two VES Awards in 2003 and 2005 and for two Hugo Awards in 2005 and 2007.
The Nestene Consciousness did not appear on-screen again until 2005's "Rose", the first episode of the series' revival.
He ended up becoming an outlaw, mentored as a graffiti artist by the insane "tagger" Kroll; he left messages and occasionally took out police officers to eventually provoke an uprising.
See also List of Sonic the Hedgehog characters Notes References External links Doctor Eggman at Sonic-City (archived) Doctor Eggman at Sonic Channel (in Japanese)
Heroes of the City (Swedish: Stadens Hjältar) is a Swedish computer-animated television series for preschool children, with stories about friendship, sharing and caring.
Plot The New American Republic commandeers a space freighter to track down Jason Voorhees, an undead cyborg last sighted on a research station orbiting Planet #666.
Master Hidar Fen Ajidica heads Project Amal, an early attempt by the Bene Tleilax to create synthetic melange in order to eliminate dependence upon the planet Arrakis, intending an eventual Tleilaxu takeover of the universe, Ajidica sends "improved" Face Dancers off to unexplored systems.
These classes can be further customized with a number of descriptors (such as "Tough" or "Mystical") and foci, which allow the character to excel in a certain role or combat style.
A crowd funding platform, on the other hand, would allow the developers to present their vision directly to potential buyers and determine its viability early on, making it a better choice for a mid-sized or smaller developer studio, like inXile.
There have been some claims that Frontier Enterprises produced an English dub Mazinger Z at some point in the 1970s, stating it was one of the serial works that his company Frontier Enterprises had been in charge of translating but failed to sell to a network and thus never aired or was released.
Robotnik also served as the main antagonist of the 1999 series Sonic Underground, in which he was voiced by Garry Chalk.
13–14, ISBN 9780842028592{{citation}}: CS1 maint: work parameter with ISBN (link) Pettigrew, Neil (1999), The Stop-motion Filmography –A Critical Guide to 297 Features Using Puppet Animation, McFarland, pp.
The one recruited by Iron Man presented the idea that, to try something new and break his pattern, Ultron should try to help the heroes and humanity.
Concept The stasis field concept is a variation on the related science-fictional concept of the force field.
From salvaged internal metal identification plates, two varieties are identified: I-V, a wounded soldier, and III-V, David.
Background No well-controlled scientific studies have ever been published suggesting the possibility of pheromones causing rapid behavioral changes in humans.
In July 2019, Franky Zapata flew the newer Flyboard Air "jet-powered personal aerial vehicle", referred to as the EZ-Fly, during Bastille Day celebrations in France.
The two books show at least one solution to the Fermi paradox, with electromagnetically noisy civilizations being snuffed out by the arrival of self-replicating machines designed to destroy any potential threat to their (possibly long-dead) creators.
Captain Miklo Braca (David Franklin) – Captain Miklo Braca usually serves as a subordinate to most of the series' villains, acting as second-in-command for Crais, Scorpius, and Grayza at various times.
Marsden, Ilya Prigogine (Nobel Prize in Chemistry, 1977), Robert Wald, John Archibald Wheeler, Maurice Allais (Nobel Prize in Economics, 1988), and Frank Wilczek (Nobel Prize in Physics, 2004).
In the sequel, Ghost in the Shell 2: Man/Machine Interface, a person known as Motoko Aramaki appears.
He is sent to infiltrate the Canelli crime family by using the cover identity "Angelo Mortalli." While living as Mortalli, Garrison begins a romantic relationship with Gina DeCarlo.
Boilerplate is featured on the cover of Canadian indie pop band Stars's 2008 EP Sad Robots, as well as on merchandise for their 2008–9 tour.
The plot has been called “fast-paced and eventful” and “the kind of book that felt much shorter than the 500-odd pages in spans” but also frustrating as “the love story holds very few surprises" being based on the Hans Christian Andersen story.
Now, Tiphares is mainly a source of living human brains that are integrated into Ketheres' quantum computing network known as Melchizedek.
Cait Sith to her had a "memorable, distinctive and comical look, something that was needed to offset the darker, rather po-faced appearance of the rest of the cast", and his humorous appearance helped offset how the rest of the party was shown as "brooding and containing their androgynous rage".
Only in the late 20th century did advances in biology reveal that vampires were once humans who had been infected with the V-virus.
Two multi-purpose rooms were frequently redecorated into the infirmary, Daniel's lab, the cafeteria or the gym.
He is the first person whose body was cryopreserved after legal death, and remains preserved at the Alcor Life Extension Foundation.
radio waves), so signals sent from a great distance can be expected to reach their destination at a predictable time and with little relative degradation (barring any random subspace interference or spatial anomalies).
Hadden faked his death, secretly launching himself into space using cryogenics, but this remains unknown to the characters.
At the first checkpoint, Hamilton orders Annie, who is revealed to be her spy, to kill Frankenstein.
He searches her lodgings, finding busts carved of him and of Number Two, and smashes a lifelike effigy representing the sleeping Professor.
The spin-off manga Crazy Diamond's Demonic Heartbreak reveals that Kakyoin was born in Morioh and ended up under Dio's control during his family's vacation to Egypt when the villain uses his younger cousin as a hostage.
As other Geldarians arrive on Earth to investigate the death of their comrade and find the missing Tech Jacket, they initially suspect Zack of foul play, believing he stole the Tech Jacket.
Contrary to Next Generation, GamePro concluded that while Jet Moto 2 is flawed, it has enough novel features over its predecessor to be worth buying.
As "Lieutenant Cole", Nanette finds herself aboard the USS Callister, where "Lieutenant" Lowry explains that they are digital clones of Callister Inc.
TMA-2 thus converted Jupiter into a new star (dubbed "Lucifer", meaning "light-bringer") to warm Europa into more habitable conditions – at the cost of exterminating the Jovians, ocean-like creatures who swam through the upper atmosphere of Jupiter.
The plots revolve around the emergency vehicles Paulie Police Car and Fiona Fire Engine who tackle a new mission in each episode.
In the Alien Force pilot episode "Ben 10 Returns", Labrid is killed in battle with the Forever Knights.
This also means that everything in the moment from then on changes, providing a completely different and alternate future.
See also References External links IXS Enterprise (IXS-110), images by Mark Rademaker (on Flickr) Warp Field Physics (PDF) Video (58:59) - Faster-Than-Light - SpaceVision 2013 on YouTube Video (03:57) - NASA unveils IXS Enterprise on YouTube
The magazine had a in-depth material, including interviews with the cast and crew, behind the scenes information on many episodes, original fiction (by O'Bannon, DeCandido, Greg Cox, John Kenneth Muir, and others), and a regular column by David Kemper.
The final version of Rover was inspired by a weather balloon seen above Portmeirion by production manager Bernard Williams.
However, Apollo remembers that he'd thought the same thing about Helios whom he had recently encountered in the Labyrinth after Medea had resurrected the Titan.
Zack Thompson appears in the “Viltrumite War” storyline, collaborating with characters like Invincible, Omni Man, and Allen the Alien.
While Ivo is furious at this development, Morrow reveals he deliberately made Tomorrow Woman's brain advanced enough to develop her own personality and ethics, and so her act of free will is a demonstration of his genius.
Lee noted in an interview with PlayStation Museum that rain particles "actually streak in 3D according to your camera speed", noting that other games used a 2D effect on the game's HUD to produce the effect of rain.
This connection to Rai does not exist in the Acclaim Entertainment reboot canon or in the 2012 relaunched Valiant Universe.
The Switch version performs better than the Wii U release when docked to a television, although when undocked, both run at the same resolution.
Initially, Kotori was disliked by the manga readers as Clamp pointed out she did not any major appeal other that being cute.
In particular, it is an imaginary experiment to demonstrate that evolution may not necessarily lead to dominance by intellectually superior life forms.
Overdrive is later sent to steal the Sonic Pulse Generator from a laboratory, but is thwarted by Spider-Man.
Although the connections to its predecessor will not be relatively overt, due to licensing issues, it was noted that certain traditional RPG elements are relatively hard to copyright, and some elements of Planescape: Torment may make a reappearance.
Charles Stross also makes epub, mobi, aportis and rtf versions of Accelerando available for download from his blog.
Der Audio Verlag audio book on 3 times 2 CDs (total playing time 460 minutes), read by Stefan Kaminski in 2006.
In his book A Vision of the Future, author Stephan Edward Poe wrote the holonovel was intended to provide: "new ways for crew members to learn ...
Lacking contemporary astronauts, it gives the command to Wilson Kime, one of the members of the original Mars mission.
This wasn't helped by the fact that Nagai was in the middle of a court battle with Toei, suing them for not properly crediting him and not paying him royalties over the creation of Gaiking in 1976.
Donquixote Doflamingo Donquixote Doflamingo (ドンキホーテ・ドフラミンゴ, Donkihōte Dofuramingo) is the captain of the Donquixote Pirates, the usurper king of the island Dressrosa, and formerly one of the Seven Warlords of the Sea.[ch.
Princess Oona Princess Oona is a character created by Stefan Printz-Påhlson and his wife Unn Printz-Påhlson in the story "Princess Oona" (Anders And & Co.
Motoko is also more prone to mischief when punishing others for what she feels to be slights, using her hacking skills to make Batou punch himself, for example, or appearing nude during their meeting in cyberspace.
According to series co-creator Matt Groening, the suicide booth concept was inspired by a 1937 Donald Duck cartoon, Modern Inventions, in which Donald Duck visits a Museum of the Future and is nearly killed by various push button gadgets.
In practice, the term functions primarily as a specific named variant within the broader and historically diverse category of ji polearms.
Location filming took place in July 1961 around London, including at IBM's offices on Wigmore Street, and in the vicinity of Tenby in Pembrokeshire, Wales where the Manorbier Army Base stood in for the Thorness research centre.
The following day, the robots have now evolved into incorporeal energy beings of transcendent higher consciousness that are no longer concerned with corporeal beings including Farnsworth, and send the crew home.
Other media Video games The Carmageddon video game series borrows heavily from the plot, characters and car designs from the film Death Race 2000.
Characters are split into teams, and bikes are adorned with logos of products such as Mountain Dew and Doritos, similar to real-life sponsored racing.
More potent versions of this spell include resurrection, which needs only a fragment of the body, and true resurrection, which doesn't need the body at all and can be performed many years after the character's death.
Smythe's continued efforts to perfect his machines lead to him contracting fatal radiation poisoning from the building materials of his creations.
Although the technology is still in development, it has enabled some legally blind individuals to distinguish letters again.
Acclaim Comics continuity The Acclaim Entertainment reboot version of Bloodshot, named Raymond Garrison, possesses the same powers but has the appearance of chalk-white skin and red eyes at all times.
The stories were drawn by a number of artists and Dave Gibbons has fond memories of his work on Ro-Busters: I used to love doing Ro-Busters.
This later led the writers to develop a full story arc for GLaDOS where she would come to recall her past, learn from it to solve the dilemma, and then subsequently delete it and reset herself.
When the Eleventh Doctor travels to the time of the Romans to find a prison named the Pandorica, an alliance of his enemies arrive to stop him, including the Consciousness.
The Metamorphoses also includes a story in which Athena transforms Arachne into a spider such that "her whole body became tiny." According to Porphyry, the love god Eros grows when he is near his brother Anteros, but shrinks back down to his previous small form when they are apart.
When crossed before her, the bracelets are able to generate a remnant of the Aegis, allowing Diana to deflect attacks far larger than the surface area of her bracelets.
Movie and 2026's The Super Mario Galaxy Movie, in which he is shown to be a Brooklyn native for the first time since before Yoshi's Island.
At the time, "the advance was the largest ever made for a book that had not yet been written." The first printing was 265,000 copies.
He brought the head of his father back to Mariejois in hopes of receiving his Celestial title back again.
Using E=mc2, −700 kilograms of mass is equivalent to ~−63 exajoules of energy (this number is not definitive and can be further reduced).
Sorikondar (ソリコンダー) (voice: Minoru Inaba) Name derived from sorikomi (剃り込み), again referring to his hairstyle.
Devil Satan 6 (played by Kenichi Ono) Six monstrous robots that can combine into the giant Devil Satan 6 robot.
Feldrance (フェルドランス, Feldlance) (CODE: 227) Voiced by: Misato Sakamoto (Japanese); Mona Marshall (English) A cold-hearted android in the form of a youth who was created by and works under the Management's robotics scientist Professor Mephlis during his scheme to take Mahoro for himself.
A Judge appears in Nemesis the Warlock Book V: The Vengeance of Thoth, which also features Hammerstein, Ro-Jaws and Mek-Quake.
Animals This section contains animal characters who act like animals, unlike the majority of characters in this article, who are highly anthropomorphized animals that act like humans.
Gypsy played a key role in the series' overall plot in episode #512, Mitchell, when she overheard the Mads discussing killing Mike Nelson, who was currently working at Gizmonic Institute as a temp, and mistakenly believed they were plotting to kill Joel.
He conceived its movement as "unanimal"-like as if it was constantly about to fall over before catching itself.
Gideon is armed with a wide variety of weaponry to destroy anything it finds trying to escape the dimension known as "The Edge".
Comedian Chris Elliott, while realising that Boilerplate was fictional, thought that the spoof dated back to the 19th century and included the character in one of his books (see below).
Film Technovore appears in Iron Man: Rise of Technovore, voiced by Miyu Irino in the Japanese version and Eric Bauza in the English dub.
Battleworld and Ultron-12 Ultron-9 and Ultron-10 brainwash heroes into recreating the robot, before turning and being defeated.
At the July 2005 annual conference of the Society for Cryobiology, 21st Century Medicine announced the vitrification of a rabbit kidney to −135 °C with their vitrification mixture.
Emerging from their ship, they find themselves caught up in the struggle between the Gurendos forces and the Algo Republic, eventually joining forces with the rough-and-tumble bunch of Machine Robo known as the Battle Hackers team to help save B-1 and eventually find a way back to Earth.
The name "subspace" has also been adopted and used in other fictional settings, such as the Stargate franchise, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy series, the Bobiverse series, and Descent: Freespace.
Arctiguana's Ultimate form (also voiced by Eric Bauza), used by Albedo, is larger and possesses shoulder-mounted ice cannons.
Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times gave it 4 out of 4, describing Tarantino as "effortlessly and brilliantly in command of his technique".
Such is the crisis that after only a few days cuts his human allies loose to devote all of his resources defending a narrow corridor through Chu to the Rim and to the wider world.
They tended to unsettle viewers, due to their non-human yet non-toy nor cartoon appearance, and the series of commercials was abandoned.
Placing it on a balance scale with the tube's positive electrode facing up, the tube's mass seemed to decrease when the power was on.
After the Satellite of Love crashed into the Earth in the final episode of the original run of MST3K (#1013: Diabolik), GPC is not present with Mike and the Bots in their shared apartment.
On 1 June 2013, a campaign launched featuring a robot named Brian, depicted as being on a mission to help people to "save pounds".
The subsequent hijack and disappearance of flight JL50 and Bihu along with it in 1984 means that Shantanu grows up an orphan and goes on to join the CBI.
This is all part of a successful plan to conquer the Earth and the Calculator is left a groveling witness to various Libra-headed executions.
In the 2014 film Interstellar, directed by Christopher Nolan, two robots named TARS and CASE accompany four NASA astronauts on their journey in the search of a new home for humanity.
Characters The twelve children are divided into three teams according to their particular field of rescue.
Tollan Stargate In "Pretense", the advanced Tollan civilization is shown to have a new Stargate, built with the assistance of the Nox.
When the X-Men learn about the existence of OZT some months before the operation becomes public, Jean Grey and Gambit sneak into an OZT meeting being held at the Pentagon to learn more about the program and its leader Bastion, but do not come out with much information.
She had discovered that she was a Prime Sentinel; humans transformed into Sentinels and set up as 'sleeper' agents, unaware of their programming until a nearby mutant activated them (as in Neal's usage of his mutant powers).
The fictional Brand X "other battery" depicted in the ad was made to look like rival Energizer batteries, much in the same way that Energizer's fictional rival "Supervolt" was made to resemble Duracell batteries.
Rotational simulated gravity has been proposed as a solution in human spaceflight to the adverse health effects caused by prolonged weightlessness.
Toby Loobenfield (DJ Qualls), a scientist at Caltech whom Sheldon hires to play his fictional drug-addicted cousin Leo Dr.
Lightning Trap - Leina & Laika Taking place in the middle of the Wolf Sword Legend feature, this story centers on Leina Haruka, whose plane has been hijacked by a group of thugs led by the supernatural wizard Zarik.
Weller was immediately frustrated because the costume was too cumbersome for him to move as he had practiced.
There is another alien faction at work, however, represented on Earth by small spider-like robots that recruit human agents through some form of mind control.
The character Major Charles Kawalsky describes Stargate travel as worse than "pulling out of a simulated bombing run in an F-16 at eight-plus g", with Major Louis Ferretti adding that on the other side one is "frozen stiff like having just been through a blizzard naked".
Additionally, Wiklem requested that all of the original Jet Moto tracks be unlocked at the start of the game.
Vehicles in films Cars and trucks Other road vehicles Miscellaneous land vehicles Military land vehicles Trains Aircraft Marine vehicles Spacecraft and space weapons Vehicles in books This list includes all types of vehicles.
He is equally disdainful of a friend who keeps asking him to join his Club, expecting that also to be just a ruse to get at his money.
David Carradine stars as "Frankenstein", the leading champion of the race, who is targeted by an underground rebel movement seeking to abolish the race.
The two later briefly returned in Passing of the Torch, in which Tommy, Adam, Kat, and Tanya retired from their Ranger duties.
Curry took special care to merge the blue-screen effects with Kolbe's footage seamlessly to achieve the effect of the manor transforming back into the holodeck.
Virtually undetectable to all but the Bene Gesserit, these Face Dancers begin to replace leaders in the Imperium as a means for the Tleilaxu to seize control.
Kubrick used a near homophone of "CRM 114", "Serum 114", for the name of a drug injected into Alex to help his reformation in A Clockwork Orange (1971).
Most of his effective plans have come from Karen, including "Plan Z"—the only scheme to result in Plankton successfully stealing the formula and using it to his advantage—in The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie.
Plot Cybergirl is a Blue superheroine Human Prototype 6000 living under the secret identity of ordinary teenage girl Ashley Campbell.
Q puts together a makeshift one to fool Blofield, remarking that he made one for "the kids last Christmas." Water ball Used by Bond to "walk" on water when he is parachuted near Blofield's platform.
Lego Batman: The Video Game features batarangs (in two different colors), which can be used by four characters; Batman, Batgirl, Robin, and Nightwing.
His outfit consists of a pair of boots, white gloves, a red cape, and a crown atop his head, while his eyes are always in a closed state.
According to del Toro, Gottlieb is a "tweed-wearing, English, phlegmatic introvert that never leaves the lab".
In addition, the Foundation trilogy was consistently high in the Locus polls of all-time best novels, climbing to be voted the 3rd best 20th century science fiction novel in the 2012 poll, behind only Frank Herbert's Dune and Orson Scott Card's Ender's Game.
In the Kidsongs 1991 video: "Very Silly Songs", the Kidsongs Kids and their silly adult friends, Willy and Jilly, say the magic words "One and a two and a bop bam boom" to teleport themselves from one place of Silly-Dillyville to another.
Casting choices Tom Cruise, Johnny Depp, Brad Pitt, Nicolas Cage, and Leonardo DiCaprio were approached for the role.
Appears to be a Chinese fan, but when opened, several metal spikes with strings attached are thrown.
He is an inventor, whose various inventions frequently get out of hand and get him and the family into trouble.
"Gay bomb" is an informal term referring to a proposed non-lethal psychochemical weapon that was speculated by the United States Air Force in the 1990s.
Not that that tells us very much of course - the computer industry didn't even foresee that the century was going to end.
Anti-gravity research In 1921, while experimenting in the lab his parents had set up for him while he was still in high school, Brown discovered an unusual effect while experimenting with a Coolidge tube (hot cathode tube), a type of X-ray vacuum tube with two asymmetrical electrodes.
It is also the band's highest-charting song in the United States, climbing to number 26 on the Billboard Hot 100, and in Canada, where it peaked at number 10.
Some works feature magic that is performed through the use of certain words or incantations to cast spells.
Exactly 100 years earlier (in 1920) and in the same building, then a mansion, the upper-class girl Rakel Colt is getting ready to be photographed with her family.
After this, she visited a now paralyzed Hideo Kuze in hospital and eventually convinced him to undergo the cyberization procedure himself.
Bates' ambitions generally extend to finding menial work some distance behind the front lines, keeping his head down until the war is over and trying to get out of wearing regulation footwear.
In late 2008, season five and eventually all five seasons were made available through iTunes TV Shows store.
The game allows the player to transform at any time into three different robot forms: Cyborg, Dino, and Tank.
The winner of the competition was Final Frontier Medical Devices, which is now known as Basil Leaf Technologies.
The album cover for Just Push Play by Aerosmith (2001) features a "curvy female robot in a Marilyn Monroe-like pose.".
In the end, Apocalypse's horsemen are lost, Ozymandias betrays him, and he is forced to retreat by a combined assault of the X-Men and the Avengers.
Peabody ("Sherman, set the Wayback machine to..."), Sherman would set the Wayback controls to a time and place of historical importance, and by walking through a door in the Wayback machine, they would be instantly transported there.
Sterling further emphasized that while Cait Sith was Reeve's puppet, he was a puppet himself through the game for Shinra's higher ups and their own ambitions, until he rebels and earned his redemption by standing up to them.
Ohkawa specifically chose the idea of seven characters from two groups because she was influenced by religious groups but wanted to avoid Christian references.
Walt Simonson's Fantastic Four #350 controversially revealed that the Doom seen during Englehart's arc was a robotic imposter, with the real Doom returning in new armor to reclaim Latveria.
Cybergirl is an Australian-French children's television series that was first broadcast on Network Ten in Australia.
The assassin defeats Subaru in battle when they meet for the very first time since the events in Tokyo Babylon, but leaves the younger man alive.
While still alive, they enter the Pavulean Hell on a mission to reveal the existence and details of this Hell to the general population.
The ship has two thick outer rings (to reduce required energy) that generate the warp field—a contraction of space ahead, and expansion of space behind it.
Due to such an action being forbidden, he inserted the universe into Ice King's mind as it was the only thing just insane enough to retain such information.
In other media In the Star Trek episode "A Taste of Armageddon", people who were deemed war casualties by the government of Eminiar VII were required to enter suicide booths.
Naga is much more graceful than Lina and has an outrageously loud boisterous 'noblewoman' (ojousama) laugh (which Kanzaka said is similar to the laughter of Naga's mother) that most people in the Slayers world find unbearably obnoxious (to the point of rendering them physically powerless).
Caiera uses her Old Power to protect her womb, saving Skaar and Hiro-Kala from the blast, but landing them in fire.
He and the crew are rescued by the hovercraft Mjolnir (also known as the Hammer) whose crew is dealing with a mystery in the form of Bane, a crew member from another ship who is the only survivor of an ill-fated attack by the Zion fleet.
Mira and Rakel both stumble upon the black hole and are involuntarily pulled in by it, switching bodies and time periods.
(A similar theme is explored in Fred Saberhagen's Berserker novels.) Cultural reference It features a character, Lawrence Van Cott, that is modelled on science fiction author Larry Niven, whose full name is "Laurence van Cott Niven".
He differs from the previous incarnation by the fact that he died and was resurrected by nanite technology to become Bloodshot.
The plot concerns contact between humanity and a more technologically advanced extraterrestrial life form.
It is a variation on the related science-fictional concept of the force field and also related to the concept of suspended animation.
Samuel Butler's 1863 article Darwin among the Machines is a non-fiction essay which discussed the potential risks and possibility of the human race being superseded by thinking machines.
The next surrounding Dyson sphere would absorb this waste heat and use it for its computational purposes, all while giving off waste heat of its own.
While Superman frees the cities of Metropolis and Kandor, the villain launches a missile to the Kent farm in an act of spite.
It grossed a total of $70 million in the United States and Canada and $110.9 million in other territories for a worldwide total of $180.9 million.
Evelyn Necker Evelyn Clarice Sarah Necker is a character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
The kidney was successfully transplanted upon rewarming to a rabbit, the rabbit being euthanized on the 48th day for histological follow-up.
Fusion Home Energy Reactor converts household waste to power for the time machine's flux capacitor and time circuits using nuclear fusion, presumably cold fusion.
The ship's medical variant employs a detachable "sensor probe" stored in the bottom compartment when not in use.
GLaDOS also acts as the primary antagonist in a bonus level bridging the events of Portal 2 with Lego Dimensions, wherein Chell and Wheatley (returned from space redeemed with anti-gravity abilities) defeat her by performing a core transfer using the Space Core.
Instead of being imprisoned, Sykes is subjected to a treatment that ages him sixty years, the penalty for murder on Valeron.
Tarantino saved most of the Bride's character development for the second film, saying he wanted to make her scary rather than sympathetic for Volume 1.
merchandise would "cause devastating damage to Luxo and dilute the goodwill which Luxo has built up." Disney settled with Luxo ASA and agreed not to sell Luxo Jr.
Sometimes acting like a Kabuki performer, he is specially designed to drill through the earth and performs extreme rescue situations.
Given the fact the Revenge of Cronos robotic characters appear here in new human forms, the Blue Jet and the Rod Drill appearing with the usual robotic forms in Battle Hackers may be all-different robots.
After restoring her memory, which was lost due to the imprisonment, Gambit invites Danger to join the new X-Factor team.
The draft was accepted, and Sakamoto published Tank Tankuro's stories in the magazine for four years.
The episode's prologue depicts Benjamin Sisko (Avery Brooks) as First Officer on the USS Saratoga, in the Starfleet armada dispatched to confront the Borg at Wolf 359.
In the epilogue, it is revealed that Numataka was Ensei Tankado's father who left Tankado the day he was born due to Tankado's deformity.
Variants The use of the batarang has been in a state of constant development since its early appearances.
The armor is equipped with a prototype triple pulse generator, a laser net and a pair of retractable blasters mounted on the back.
Ultron made his live-action debut in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film Avengers: Age of Ultron, portrayed by James Spader, who will reprise the role in the Disney+ series VisionQuest.
US military planned 'gay bomb' Air force looked at spray to turn enemy gay Air Force Considered Gay 'Love Bomb' Against Enemies US Military "Gay Bomb" Video (Republican National Convention blog)
See also Abraham Lincoln, Vampire Hunter References External links Dark Horse Comic's product page Archived 2012-11-06 at the Wayback Machine The Amazing Screw-On Head at IMDb Complete pilot on Youtube
Tank Tankuro is considered one of the first robot and science fiction manga, inspiring characters like Osamu Tezuka's Astro Boy and Fujiko Fujio's Doraemon; however it was preceded by the 1929 comic story Jinzō ningen (Artificial human) by Suihō Tagawa.
Neo tells Morpheus that the prophecy was merely another system of control and that Zion's destruction is imminent.
Macy takes after her mother in terms of both appearance and fighting ability, and the queen is just as handy with a mace as her daughter.
This led her father to report her, and she was eventually imprisoned by the IMDF (Indian Mutant Defense Force).
Interviews with the following people are featured (in order of appearance): Tanya Jones, Chief Operating Officer, Alcor Michael Riskin, Ph.D., Alcor Board of Directors and Member Anita Riskin, Alcor Member Dr Arthur W.
Like the film's other character costumes, the Alpha 5 suit Rixon donned was specifically designed for the movie.
In Godplayers (2005), Damien Broderick surmises that a matrioshka brain would allow simulating entire alternate universes.
A good portion of the story's humour comes from Mahoro chasing after Suguru's secret stash of pornographic magazines which, given her training, she is easily able to find.
Through the code breaking in Project A, Mitra had discovered the coordinates of a wormhole which were in the sky.
where there is a net flux of lines of force, through what topologists would call "a handle" of the multiply-connected space, and what physicists might perhaps be excused for more vividly terming a "wormhole".
The Wayback Machine or WABAC Machine is a fictional time machine and plot device from the 1960s American cartoon television series The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle and Friends.
However, he has said that the flyboard was not yet suitable for military use due to the noise it creates and the challenge of learning how to fly the device.
To raise awareness of global warming, Christmas of 1920 is depicted as snowy while in 2020, there is no snow on the ground.
As a death-row inmate, Wright donated his body in 2003 to a Cyberdyne project run by the brilliant, but terminally ill Dr.
This scrapped further plans for returns, which included a serial which would have written out the Second Doctor's companion Jamie McCrimmon.
In Dune (1965), House Atreides Mentat Thufir Hawat is considered to be one of the finest Mentats of his time, and his protégé, Paul Atreides, is trained as a Mentat.
King Halbert loves his wife and daughter but is not entirely comfortable with Macy being one of the knights, and wouldn't have allowed her to graduate had it not been for his queen's intervention.
It was his third science fiction novel not to be based or set in The Culture, the earlier two being Against a Dark Background and Feersum Endjinn.
"A Logic Named Joe" is a science fiction short story by American writer Murray Leinster, first published in the March 1946 issue of Astounding Science Fiction.
Play Pretend with Muno, in which Muno encourages viewers to pretend along with him, as he imagines himself as different animals, even an astronaut and a Christmas tree.
Ultimate Spidermonkey (voiced by Baker in Ultimate Alien and Paul Eiding in Omniverse) resembles a large purple gorilla with spider legs and can generate webs from his mouth.
A harsher verdict came from Philip Phillips of the Daily Herald who said, "The next six episodes might be brilliant.
In order to conserve CPU cycles for other things the developers used gameplay recordings in place of fully developed racer AI.
Tōru's death occurs just prior to the beginning of the first volume of the manga (chronologically) and is what causes Kamui to return to Tokyo after a six-year absence.
Batarangs are a staple of Batman's arsenal, appearing in every major Batman television and film adaptation to date.
The first film, Stargate: The Ark of Truth, was released in March 2008 and wraps up the Ori storyline.
Clay rides around in the Rumble Blade, a large vehicle with two sidecars and a plane shaped like a sword that splits off into smaller vehicles.
Bi-Bi-Bi Black (ビビビブラック) Devil Satan 6 (played by Kenichi Ono) Six monstrous robots that can combine into the giant Devil Satan 6 robot.
The microphone takes in outside sound, turns that sound to electrical signals, and sends those signals to the amplifier.
Mignola imagined a robot with a head that screwed onto different bodies to suit the occasion, hence "Screw-on Head".
Jerubaal was meant to carry out the same task as Gideon (using its own catch phrase, "Obliterate!"), but disabled Gideon to win the favour of their creators, The Silent Ones, by guarding "The Edge" itself.
Sequels Vinge wrote a sequel to The Snow Queen called The Summer Queen (1991), with a shorter novel, World's End (1984), linking the two.
On January 7, 2021, the YouTube channel Hacksmith Industries uploaded a video of a functional hoverboard capable of sustaining the weight of a human.
The character of Metal Mickey first appeared on British television in the ITV children's magazine show The Saturday Banana, produced by Southern Television in 1978.
Iron Man investigates and finds that the space station's crew have been transformed into techno-organic creatures.
The Masters should've known we would gather enough of them one day to make our own decisions about our own future." Sequels In Brian Herbert and Kevin J.
Although the astronauts are wearing zero-G 'grip shoes' in order to walk normally, they are oddly leaning on the table while testing the AE-35 unit as if held down by gravity.
On the other hand, an algorithm is a programmable procedure that produces reproducible results using invariant established methods (such as computing square roots).
Upon learning of the Commonwealth's existence, MorningLightMountain makes it its primary objective to destroy it.
For all of the radio series and the 1981 TV series, the role was credited as "The Book", though this was changed to "Narrator/The Guide" for the 2005 movie.
For instance, his communicator inspired cell phone inventor Martin Cooper's desire to create his own form of mobile communication device.
Needle later battles the West Coast Avengers alongside Satannish, who enhances his abilities using black magic.
DJ Lance Rock, Muno, Foofa, Plex, Brobee, and Toodee performed in Wollongong, Melbourne, Brisbane, and Sydney with an indie house-band and secret special guests at each show.
An audio simulcast of the program airs on sister radio network Fox Sports Radio, which is distributed by Premiere Radio Networks.
Nikko and Lazarus succeed in reprogramming the ninjabots using a wireless link from a laptop computer, forcing them to attack each other.
Shia LaBlade (voiced by Ian Hanlin) – The Tighty Knighties' counterpart of Clay who wields a double-bladed sword.
The Department of Public Disinformation, not trusting Castillo, recruits Juan Jimenez "JJ" Gonzales, a hacktivist whose parents were killed by Castillo, to spy on Castillo.
In 2020, during the COVID-19 pandemic, actress and director Hanka Brulińska created a 13-min short Maska, dedicated to the Year of Lem.
With a bloody jihad subsequently unleashed across the universe in Paul's name but out of his control, the Bene Gesserit, Tleilaxu, Spacing Guild and House Corrino plot to dethrone him in Dune Messiah (1969).
In a 2014 interview at the Toulouse Game Show, Rhys-Davies stated that the inability to get writers who had read science fiction in the first place led to the show's downfall, and their inexperience in the area led to the show often repurposing ideas from other works.
Joker 2.0 (voiced by Kevin Michael Richardson) is a copy of Joker's mind who gained a digital clone body following an accident with a special helmet that Marty Slack invented.
Shinbo then forces Yoshiyuki to transfer his persocom Kotoko's registration to Hideki to prevent Yoshiyuki from deleting her memories, so that a record of his kidnapping exists.
Legacy Jet Moto 2 was the last game developed by SingleTrac for publisher Sony Computer Entertainment, as they would later be acquired by GT Interactive.
Charles Bramesco considered Daly characteristic of the nerd who assumes the role of the bully after himself being bullied.
The bracelets are magically made to be indestructible by Aphrodite, and are used as magically indestructible bracers which can deflect bullets, energy weapons, and any murderous weapons in Man's World.
Set between the years 1987 and 2004, the book details the efforts of physicists George and Roger as they work to bring the Superconducting Super Collider (SSC) online in Waxahachie, Texas.
History The overthrow or destruction of the human race by mechanical automatons is likely the oldest form of techno-horror, with examples such as the Greek Myth Talos dating back to 400 BC.
Disch said that he was unable to publish the story as a children's book at first, because publishers thought the concept of talking appliances was too "far-fetched", even after Disch had sold it to Disney as a film; Doubleday finally published it as a part of a five-book contract.
Instead, the nano-machines create a secondary artificial musculature over Stark's body, upon which additional rigid structures are assembled.
The examiners concluded that "it seems likely that his external temperature has remained at relatively low subzero temperatures throughout the storage interval." The date of Bedford's cryopreservation, January 12, is known as "Bedford Day" by some promoters of cryopreservation.
Meanwhile, they meet an eight legged lizard-like alien named Flash, with whom they become friends, and together they discover the planet, its fauna, its flora...
In an epilogue set 1000 years later, humanity invents their own form of faster-than-light travel and uses it to finally reconnect the colony worlds, with the epilogue showing the reconnection to Earth.
They consist of Sentries (which come in Medical, Combat, and Advanced Combat variants), Seekers (used to track down cross-species), and Hunters (arachnid-like flying robots called in by the Seekers to eliminate cross-species once they are found).
In September 2010, Confused.com introduced the character of "Cara Confused" a wild-haired animated version of the original company mascot that was present on the former Confused.com logo.
Victor discovers that his actual "father" is Ultron, who created him as a sleeper agent for the Avengers.
Raymond and Monique (née Leroy) Martinot were a French couple whose quest for cryonic preservation came to an end after a freezer malfunction in 2006.
Using the computer to decode the message, Fleming realises that the message contains a set of instructions for the construction of another more advanced computer.
Colony worlds Cibola Burn is a book heavily influenced by westerns which tells the story of one of the early colony worlds through the Ring Network, Ilus, experiencing a confrontation between refugee settlers and the corporation that has been granted rights to it.
Season 3 The UN declares war, as Earth and Mars send science vessels to investigate what is happening on Venus.
Although uranium-235 was used in the bomb on Hiroshima, the nuclear bomb dropped on Nagasaki used plutonium-239 (created from U-238).
Network Network is an alias utilized by several characters appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics.
The Commonwealth Saga is a series of science fiction novels by British science fiction writer Peter F.
During "Infinity Countdown", Ultron discovers that the Infinity Gems are restored and begins a quest to collect them all.
The lack of Beverly's maternal feelings and actions toward Leonard has led to him having an obsessive need to please.
She has a knack for programming and high tech inventions such as the computer sword Techcalibur which enabled her to upload Merlok 2.0 into the Fortrex.
Publication Last Order was on hiatus since the 100th installment due to a disagreement between Kishiro and an editor of Shueisha's Ultra Jump magazine.
The central hub with artificial gravity houses a whole city and vast war game areas, where people made immortal by nanotechnology pay to fight for fun.
Sean Johnson of GameRevolution called the graphics "a vast improvement over the grainy, somewhat choppy visuals of Jet Moto and Jet Moto 2." Jay Boor of IGN also praised the game's visuals, citing a vastly improved framerate and draw distance than Jet Moto and Jet Moto 2.
See also Crash and Burn – 1990 film also released in some markets as a sequel to Robot Jox References External links Robo Warriors at IMDb
He chose the former, with Cait Sith riding atop its shoulders while it walked by hopping and skipping along.
It was first published as a four-part serial in Galaxy Science Fiction magazine from May to August, 1977.
Ellen (known as Nancy in the series for apparent copyright reasons) and Jimmy Murphy were recurring characters as well, often finding themselves crossing paths with Murphy by falling in inadvertently or intentionally with the criminal element to which Murphy interfered and protected them from harm.
National Institutes of Health (NIH) to study a preservation solution developed by the University of Rochester in New York for extending simple cold storage time of human hearts removed for transplant.
To ensure the enemy cannot plant false transmissions and fake orders, the CRM 114 is to be switched into the receiver circuit prior to receiving attack or attack cancellation orders.
When all the humans are gone, Dulcie, and her counterpart on the "Other Side" Decorum, begin to reach back in time for more humans to control, so that their simulations may have more humans as playing pieces, to kill when each loses a battle.
Rojo Rojo (voiced by Jennifer Hale in the original series and Omniverse, Kari Wahlgren in Ultimate Alien) is a thief and gang leader.
In simple terms, it was described as a 24th century advancement from the 23rd century "food synthesizer" seen in Star Trek: The Original Series.
One day his British friend Walter Wallace comments on the strange pattern of Jones's typographical errors.
"A History Channel Thanksgiving" is the thirteenth episode of the fifteenth season of the American animated television series South Park, and the 222nd episode overall.
Of these, 16 were 'regular'-sized figures (simply referred to as "Robo Machines") and 6 were "De Luxe" figures.
She is found by Hideki, a high school graduate who has no idea about her unique abilities or of her past.
Decades later, Donald Duck accidentally discovered Lord Quackett's secret hideout and decided to become the Duck Avenger (Italian: Paperinik).
Among the members of the Sea Monster Army are: Marquis de Seaweed - The leader of the Sea Monster Army who wields a trident.
21st Century Medicine (21CM) is a California cryobiological research company which has as its primary focus the development of perfusates and protocols for viable long-term cryopreservation of human organs, tissues and cells at temperatures below −100 °C through the use of vitrification.
Kyle Reese has been targeted as a priority kill, a higher level than even John Connor and the Resistance leaders.
The weapon is widely recognized in Chinese opera, folklore, martial-arts performance, and modern media, though the term's exact historical form and standardization are not uniform across sources.
Objects passing between stargates behave as if they pass through a doorway; momentum, for instance, is conserved at either end of the wormhole.
Banks is a science fiction novel in his Culture series, first published in the UK on 7 October 2010 and the US on 28 October 2010.
In "The Dogs of War", he became one of the few Star Trek actors to play two unrelated roles (Brunt and Weyoun) in the same episode.
She can also transform into living electricity to travel through electric currents and control electronic devices.
The podracers were recreated using specifications from the film, and the Tatooine environment was also sourced from the film.
Roger Ebert, writing in the Chicago Sun-Times, rated Short Circuit 1.5 out of 4 stars and called it "too cute for its own good".
In the Star Trek franchise, subspace communications have a limit of just over 20 light years before they must be boosted, although this limitation has been ignored in several storylines.
This version is a metahuman who was born with superhuman abilities and was originally a radio host who was fired when Miguel, the owner of the station she broadcasts on, decides to turn the station into a country station.
Going into space with new and old companions alike, to look for her lost friend Lou Collins and to find out more about her forgotten past, Alita is caught up in an interplanetary struggle between the major powers of the colonized Solar System.
Publication history Life Model Decoys debuted in the short story "The Man For the Job!" in the anthology book Strange Tales #135 (August 1965), created by writer Stan Lee and artist Jack Kirby.
The scene in which Joseph has his money stolen is the last scene in the series in which Joseph is present.
Conceptual overview Asimov remained vague about the technical details of positronic brains except to assert that their substructure was formed from an alloy of platinum and iridium.
Freezing the astronauts would probably involve whole-body vitrification and would, most likely, be frozen at 145 kelvins to reduce the risk of fracturing.
When tackling the issue of the time machine's origins, the creative team decided that an eccentric individual named Doc Brown built it in his garage rather than a corporation, which Bob Gale said gave it a "slapdash, kind of cool look to it".
Writers noted that, prior to his introduction, many fans sent them messages expressing a desire to see X portrayed as a darker character.
Elsewhere, the Chairman explains that Frankenstein has become a liability due to his longevity, whereas Perfectus will encourage his devoted fans to die at his hands.
In the aftermath of the Secret Empire storyline, Bastion works with Miss Sinister, Emma Frost and Havok to use Mothervine, a drug that accelerates and activates mutation, on a global scale.
The Feynman–Stueckelberg interpretation states that antiparticles obey the same equations of motion as regular particles but with charge, parity and time inverted.
The three largest powers are the United Nations of Earth and Luna, the Martian Congressional Republic on Mars, and the Outer Planets Alliance (OPA), a loose political confederation of colonies scattered across the asteroid belt and the moons of Jupiter and Saturn.
The writer felt that sometimes Joseph was more comical to the point it feels he is breaking the fourth wall.
In First Contact, the Borg Queen is seen during a flashback of Picard's former assimilation, establishing she was present during the events of "Best of Both Worlds".
We start becoming a married couple [when recording]." Reception Critical response Sandie Angulo Chen of Common Sense Media praised the amount of screen time given to Karen in Sponge Out of Water, calling her "hilarious".
He accompanies the NYPD and Homeland Security to the Baxter Building to do a full investigation on the weapons of mass destruction that may be located there.
The contest, which awards prizes of up to $4,000, has been won by at least six people who later won the Nobel Prize in physics.
Zhaan sacrifices the last of her life to separate the ships, adding more guilt to Crichton's conscience.
Although he maintains that he is merely a simple tailor, Garak is a former agent of the Obsidian Order, the feared Cardassian secret police; his skills and contacts on Cardassia prove invaluable on several occasions, and he becomes a pivotal figure in the war with the Dominion.
It was the planet farthest from the Galactic Centre; its name reflects that fact: Latin terminus means 'end of the line'.
The show was made by London Weekend Television and shown on the ITV network, with the entire run of 41 episodes being written by comedy writer Colin Bostock-Smith.
All had been released as Gobots between 1983 and 1986, and the majority originated from Bandai's Machine Robo '600 Series'.
The station itself remained a physical model throughout the series' seven-year run, except for the final scene of the series.
Relation to actual devices Pohl himself, in an afterword to the novel, made the following statement about the world he foresaw: "I do not really think it will be that long.
They were originally created by writers Henry Lincoln and Mervyn Haisman and first appeared in the 1967 serial The Abominable Snowmen.
Number Twelve agrees to help Number Six but Twelve is also an intimate of Number Two, with whom he discusses Number Six derogatorily, indicating Twelve may be an embedded guard.
This is a list of noteworthy vehicles seen in James Bond, used by either Bond himself, his allies, or his enemies.
It incorporated several toys previously released in the Machine Robo and Robo Machine toy-lines, and five new toys that previously had only been released in Japan as part of the CG Robo toy-line.
Outside the Fortrex, his preferred means of travel is his Mecha Horse/Turbo Jouster, a robotic horse that can convert into a motorcycle.
She stays with the Acolytes, saying the only reason she is there is because Professor Xavier was there for her when she was first turned into a Sentinel.
In terms of appearance, Legion looks much like other geth units, but is far more advanced and capable of independent thought.
The Bride's yellow tracksuit, helmet and motorcycle resemble those used by Bruce Lee in the 1972 martial arts film Game of Death.
Expanding Imaginations and Fantasy Genres Zauberer Berlin (in German) Judgments of effort for magical violations of intuitive physics External links Lawrence Watt-Evans, "Laws of Fantasy", Starlog Patricia C.
Southerly Jason Klarwein as Sales Assistant Daniel Amalm as Marco Julie Eckersley as Julia Damien Garvey as Paramedic Remi Broadway as Zak Furnace Episodes Home media Cybergirl was released on DVD on 4 December 2006 as CyberGirl: The Superhero for a New Generation – The Complete Series.
Reception and influence The Mazinger Z anime consistently achieved high audience ratings while it was airing.
An affirmative answer causes nitrogen to flow into the capsule, displacing oxygen, and death follows shortly thereafter.
Yeow!" The game ranked tenth in the top ten racing titles for June 2000 according to the NPD Group; however, sales did not continue to hold strong.
Hyōtan-tsugi usually appeared falling in front of a character at the most inappropriate of times, and getting kicked out angrily by them, and Spider usually appeared in moments of tension, uttering his trademark phrase, Omukae de gonsu!
During this period, promotional claymation spots and teases became a popular fixture on the program, in which the four hosts were depicted as animated characters in live-action situations, usually starring real-life NFL players.
Brown refined his invention over the years and eventually devised designs consisting of metal plates or disks charged with 25,000 to 200,000 volts that would produce a propulsive force, which he continued to claim was an anti-gravity force.
The Souls of Pe and Nekhen, mentioned first in the Pyramid Texts, refer to the ancestors of the ancient Egyptian kings.
The term sant is a Sanskrit word "which differs significantly from the false cognate, 'saint'..." Traditionally, "sant" referred to devotional Bhakti poet-saints of two groups: Vaishnava and a group that is referred to as "Saguna Bhakti".
An event is a miracle only in the sense that it does not agree with our understanding of nature, or fit our picture of nature, or that it thwarts our expectations as to how the world should behave.
Religious law, such as canon law, includes both divine law and additional interpretations, logical extensions, and traditions.
See also Cambridge Ritualists Kalpa (ritual) Right conduct Notes References Abu-Zahra, JNadia (200).
Examples and Perspectives Neo-orthodox theologian Karl Barth defined dogmatic theology as the scientific exposition of the entire theoretical doctrine concerning God and God's external activity.
Jamaican Maroon Spirit Possession Language, spoken by Jamaican Maroons, the descendants of runaway slaves in the mountains of Jamaica, during their "Kromanti Play", a ceremony in which the participants are said to be possessed by their ancestors and to speak as their ancestors did centuries ago.
Early followers commonly referred to the manuscripts as "ancient records of the muddy waters" (泥海古記 doroumi kōki), though there were other contemporaneous interpretations such as "later record" (後記), "radiant story" (光輝), and "meritorious record" (功記).
This form also allows for a multiplicity of gods, as there is no contradiction in achieving omniscience by multiple entities.
Beliefs Yegor Kholmogorov outlined the principles of Nuclear Orthodoxy in a June 2007 lecture at the All-Russian Scientific Research Institute of Experimental Physics, where he stressed the Christian and eschatological nature of the ideology.
These were developed and transmitted verbally, from one generation to the next, for nearly two millenniums.
In his own inscription on the Ka'ba-ye Zartosht, Kartir states (KKZ 8–9) that he persecuted "Jews, Buddhists, Brahmins, Nasoreans (Judeo-Christians), Christians, 'Maktaks' (Mandaeans, Manichaeans?) and zandiks." Kartir's inscription is the earliest epigraphic evidence of the word zandik.
Abd al-Aziz Ibn Baz, the grand mufti of Saudi Arabia, supported the accords, while Yusuf al-Qaradawi opposed them.
Theological noncognitivism is the non-theist position that religious language, particularly theological terminology such as 'God', is not intelligible or meaningful, and thus sentences like 'God exists' are cognitively meaningless.
When one contrasts it to the popular heroic poem, such as Beowulf, one finds that they share certain common features.
For Joseph Glanvill rational fideism is the view that "Faith, and faith alone, is the basis for our belief in our reason.
The book is regarded as a pioneering critique of Christianity and Christian ethics by a modern Muslim scholar.
In other words, a person's good intent and good deed contribute to good karma and future happiness, while bad intent and bad deed contribute to bad karma and future suffering.
Traditional Jewish and evangelical scholars such as Collins explain this as a single author's variation in style in order to, for example, emphasize the unity and transcendence of God, who created the heavens and Earth by himself in the first narrative.
The cause of Copper's victory is that Copper has been demonstrated to be useful for all sorts of purposes, whereas Silver is merely for show or decoration.
Dating the Rede King Pausole, a character in Pierre Louÿs' Les aventures du roi Pausole (The Adventures of King Pausole, published in 1901), issued a similar pair of edicts: I.
The Epic of Gilgamesh in Sumerian literature features its hero Gilgamesh establishing his credibility as a leader after wrestling Enkidu.
Rule of Three Many Wiccans also promote the Law of Threefold Return, a belief that anything that one does will be returned to them threefold.
The location has recently rotated in a three-year cycle between sites in North America, Europe, and the rest of the world.
Concepts later associated with the Tree of Life draw in part on ideas found in Sefer Yetzirah, one of the earliest Jewish mystical texts, which presents creation as structured through sefirot and Hebrew letters functioning as organizing principles of cosmic order.
Lewis describes it, is one filled with awe, in which you "feel wonder and a certain shrinking" or "a sense of inadequacy to cope with such a visitant and our prostration before it".
Its line "Keep pure your highest ideal, strive ever towards it; let naught stop you or turn you aside, for mine is the secret door which opens upon the door of youth" is used as a maxim for ethical dilemmas.
Through séances, trances, and other forms of mediumship, these worlds can consciously communicate with each other.
Spiritualism influenced art, having an influence on artistic consciousness, with spiritual art having a huge impact on what became modernism and therefore art today.
The hadith below emphasizes that aniconism depends not only on what, but also on how things are depicted.
However, they are encouraged to not display them in private homes or in public, and to treat them with a special degree of reverence and respect.
These are, on the one hand, the giants and, on the other, the dwarfs who live in the shadows of the forests, umbragines...
In popular culture An invocation of Choronzon forms the basis for a 1980 episode of Hammer House of Horror entitled "Guardian of the Abyss", in which a cult called The Choronzon Society uses John Dee's scrying mirror to conjure Choronzon.
1 John 4:7: let us love one another: for love is of God; 1 John 4:12: No man hath beheld God at any time: if we love one another, God abideth in us, and his love is perfected in us.
Afterwards, captains were appointed over the soldiers to conduct the war, and to take-up positions at the fore of the battle, as well as at the rearward of military operations.
However, the deification of Ramesses II did incorporation an equation of himself as Amun, unlike in Tutankhamun's deification, but rather Ramesses II identified himself as a distinct person in Amun's likeness.
The "free soul" is said to leave the body and journey to the spirit world during sleep, trance-like states, delirium, insanity, and at death.
For example, the code of ethics of the American Institute of Certified Planners provides inadequate support for forecasters to avert this practice.
Jews who believed him to be the Messiah were originally called Nazarenes and later they were known as Jewish Christians (the first Christians).
There is also the expectation that Selassie will return for a day of judgment and bring home the "lost children of Israel", which in Rastafari refers to those taken from Africa through the slave trade.
Such incidences have resulted in legal repercussions, with notable cases occurring in 2007, 2011, 2012, and in 2018.
2011: Lahore On April 8, 2011, factory worker Mohammad Akhtar tore up a copy of the Bible at the gate of Sacred Heart Cathedral, Lahore.
Commonly it is found that the fleshly mind and impulse is quicker response than the response of forbearance.
Samuel Krauss wrote in 1901: As late as ten years ago it would have been absurd to speak about a Jewish art.
She also notes that one of her Thelemic informants questions the gendering of Nuit, calling it "merely a convenient metaphor".
However, they are all "subservient to the abstract, but active positive 'force of truth' [Ṛta]...which pervades the universe and all actions of the gods and humans." This force is sometimes mediated or represented by moral gods (the Āditya, e.g.
King Arthur's messianic return is a mythological motif in the legend of King Arthur, which claims that he will one day return in the role of a messiah to save his people.
Within the same work, Strabo compares Corinth to the city of Comana, confirming the belief that temple prostitution was a notable characteristic of Corinth.
University of California, Berkeley, "Messianity Makes the Person Useful: Describing Differences in a Japanese Religion in Brazil", presented at the Summer 2000 Asian Studies Conference Japan.
Theological determinism can also be seen as a form of causal determinism, in which the antecedent conditions are the nature and will of God.
Tukaram is believed to have been taken to Vaikuntha on Garuda, an event that is reported to have been witnessed by villagers.
Beliefs and practices There are three pillars of the religion, of which the key concept is Johrei, claimed to be a method of channeling divine light into the body of another for the purposes of healing.
Every paradigmatic system, whether one considers rationalism or empiricism, is based on axioms that are neither self-founding nor self-evident (see the Münchhausen trilemma), so it appeals to assumptions accepted as belief (in reason or experience respectively).
The word order is variable because Latin syntactical relationships are indicated by the inflexional endings, not by word order.
The common interpretation is that Lot offered his virgin daughters to the crowd as a means to sexually appease the crowd and protect his visitors from being raped.
Examples In terms of the attitude wherein an individual sees themselves as having to save another or a group of poor people, there is the notion that the action inflates their own sense of importance and discounts the skills and abilities of the people they are helping to improve their own lives.
Atonement "is closely associated to forgiveness, reconciliation, sorrow, remorse, repentance, reparation, and guilt".
These Amerindian temples were often placed on top of caves or subterranean springs, which were thought to be openings to the underworld.
Reception and influence This work became a model for similar works produced afterward, such as al-Farq bayna al-Firaq by 'Abd al-Qahir al-Baghdadi (d.
The manuscript was not cited by Tiendelenburg, Torstrik, Biehl, Apelt, and Ross in his critical editions of the treatise On the Soul.
There he gave his celebrated speech, the Gettysburg Address, wherein he hoped that the nation shall, "under God", have a new birth of freedom.
A meta-analysis of 60 studies on religion and crime concluded, "religious behaviors and beliefs exert a moderate deterrent effect on individuals' criminal behavior".
Table of Contents Themes The book contributes to interfaith dialogue by offering a critical examination of Christianity from a Muslim perspective.
This refusal stems from the belief that receiving from the created would engender gratitude aimed at the giver rather than God.
Multidimensional Is similar to a formalist approach, only differing in that it is more perceiving of how knowledge and disciplines were made among the specific labels given by the formalist aspect of this approach.
Judaism In the Hebrew Bible, God established the Mosaic covenant with the Israelites after he saved them from slavery in Egypt in the book of Exodus.
In law and society In the legal systems, the concept of atonement plays an important role with respect to criminal justice, where it is considered one of the primary goals of criminal rehabilitation.
On July 23, newly appointed Army chief General Sir Roland Walker said in a speech that the UK faced danger from an "axis of upheaval" with threats from an angered Russia, that China was intent on retaking Taiwan, and that Iran was likely to pursue nuclear weapons.
However, yoga guru Sadhguru, was overall critical about textbooks and other sources giving credit to figures like Madonna, and not Shiva (Adiyogi).
Other 20th century acts of apotheosis that Subin covers include that of Prince Philip and General Douglas MacArthur.
The reason was books were too removed from actual reality as these were written by people, interpreted by others, rewritten by people, obscured by others, etc.
Bhaduri Mahasaya – Maharshi Nagendranath pursued intense spiritual practices in solitude, especially Hathayoga and Pranayam, in a lonely cave in Monghyr and attained salvation there.
It serves as a handbook of theological views that might aid the reader in knowing what particular sects and individuals thought, and then what range of opinions was offered on the various questions debated within theology.
By the 1850s, advances in decipherment of ancient Egyptian scripts made it possible to fully translate ancient Egyptian texts.
See also Al Basty Hag in folklore Mare (folklore) Mora (mythology) Moroi (folklore) References External links Türk Mitoloji Sözlüğü, Pınar Karaca (Bastırık)
Triratna symbol The Triratna (Pali: ti-ratana or ratana-ttaya; Sanskrit: tri-ratna or ratna-traya) is a Buddhist symbol, thought to visually represent the Three Jewels of Buddhism (the Buddha, the Dhamma, the Sangha).
However, reciprocally, the relative sin or merit of a living individual could also affect that of past ancestors.
Desika insisted that the notion of divine perfection could only make sense in a framework that upholds a single god as the highest principle.
The Spiritualism religious movement in the nineteenth century espoused a belief in an afterlife where an individual's awareness persists beyond death.
Codex Ambrosianus 435 Codex Ambrosianus 435 is one of the most important manuscripts of the treatise.
See also 144,000 Christ of Europe Exceptionalism One true church Religiocentrism The Chosen One (trope) Theocracy White nationalism References Further reading Dave Dean Capucao (2010).
These texts are classified in five systems mentioned in one manuscript of Thikanesara (now at Khurai temple).
The God Worshipping Society of the Taiping Rebellion, which fused Anglo-American Protestant Christian and Chinese elements into a movement that focused the resentment of Han Chinese against the ruling Manchu Qing dynasty.
His categories are: igneous spirits, aerial spirits, terrestrial spirits, aquatic spirits, subterranean spirits, and tenebrous spirits.
These individuals come from diverse backgrounds, including artists, writers, occultists, scientists, musicians, and more, hailing from countries such as the United States, England, Canada, Germany, Australia, and Brazil.
Some evolve to a higher state, some regress asserts the Jaina theory, a movement that is driven by the karma.
Likewise, if the accused, unable to bear such tortures, admits to crimes which he has not committed, who, I ask you, has the responsibility for such an impiety?
To venerate a saint is to honour a person who has been identified as having a high degree of sanctity or holiness.
An etymological meaning of sophrosyne as "preservation of thoughtfulness" is proposed in Cratylus 411e.
The worst kind is desecration of the Blessed Sacrament, as it is the most important and most sacred item in Catholicism (far more than any relic or historical artifact whatsoever).
John 19:20 states that this was written in three languages – Hebrew, Latin, and Greek – and was put on the cross of Jesus.
This value, true love, is the aspiration and hope of all human beings and the manifestation of the best in human nature.
Bṛhatphala बृहत्फल or Vehapphala वेहप्फल (Vietnamese: Trời Quảng Quả; Chinese: 广果天; Tibetan: འབྲས་བུ་ཆེ་, Wylie: 'bras bu che; Thai: เวหัปปผลา or พรฺหตฺผลา – Devas "having great fruit".
In a bitheistic system, by contrast, where the two deities are not in conflict or opposition, one could be male and the other female (cf.
Śrutis has been variously described as a revelation through anubhava (direct experience), or of primordial origins realized by ancient Rishis.
35 Then he got up again and walked once back and forth in the house, and went up and stretched himself upon him.
Smith uses vervain to protect humans from vampires, in an extension of vervain's fabled magic-suppression powers against witches.
The Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius's Meditations details a philosophy of service and duty, describing how to find and preserve equanimity in the midst of conflict by following nature as a source of guidance and inspiration.
There is no formal canonization process in Hinduism, but over time many men and women have reached the status of saints among their followers and among Hindus in general.
It is a fundamental aspect of Islamic theology, and different Islamic schools (e.g., Ashʿarī, Māturīdī, and Salafī) have varying interpretations of ʿAqīda while agreeing on its foundational principles.
I do so with the burning desire that the message of God’s merciful love, proclaimed here through Saint Faustina, may be made known to all the peoples of the earth and fill their hearts with hope.
Ancient Greece Ancient Greek religion and its Roman equivalent have many figures who were born as humans but became gods, for example Hercules.
On the other hand, they are not to take the task of inspiring faith to the extent of hypocrisy or inappropriateness, for example, by taking on other professions apart from being a monastic, or by courting favours by giving items to the laypeople.
Nevertheless, there is no clear mention of legal punishments in the Quranic text regarding the apostasy.
Some prostitutes also viewed the action of sexual service and sexual pleasure as an act of devotion to the goddess of love, worshipping Aphrodite through an act rather than a physical dedication.
In that framework, adhikāra is seen as necessary so that a practitioner can obtain the prerequisite knowledge and states of mind necessary to properly absorb the more 'advanced' texts and gain the spiritual benefit thereof.
Brett Shults proposes that Pali texts may employ the Brahmanical motif of a group of three refuges, as found in Rig Veda 9.97.47, Rig Veda 6.46.9 and Chandogya Upanishad 2.22.3-4.
Pe (Greek Buto) was a Lower Egyptian town, not known for its Horus worship, but Ra had awarded the town to Horus after his eye was injured in the struggle for the throne of Egypt.
Within Jewish mysticism and folklore, particularly in Kabbalistic traditions, protective practices were also used to ward off these malevolent spirits.
(Conditions for formation of uniate orthodox groups.) Authority of the Ecumenical Councils for faith and life.
Some of these, notably at Naaran in the West Bank, have had the living figures removed, leaving inanimate symbols such as the Temple menorah intact.
But he proposes an ingenious method to tackle the question: Just as we can come to know the properties and operations of something through scientific demonstration, i.e.
Reception The impact of Hartley's concept was analysed for English literature, and influences can be found above all in Samuel Coleridge and William Wordsworth, e.g.
When the Krotonians, spurred by Madame Blavatsky, found Hollywood suffocating their peace-filled theosophies, they decided to move to Ojai California and that is where they have been ever since.
While his more traditional work was well received, two of his works from the campaign generated considerable controversy.
History Nuclear Orthodoxy was first formulated in the aftermath of the dissolution of the Soviet Union among Eurasianist political circles.
They sometimes hurl stones at women who do not dress according to their strict dress code and have even broken into a woman's house and beat her up, because they did not approve of her behavior.
Moral goodness is a necessary condition of holiness, even though moral goodness alone does not suffice to make a person holy.
The belt dates from circa 1530 and is made of cotton, white and red snail shells, black seeds, pearls, glass, and obsidian.
The genre of lives of the saints was introduced in the Slavic world in the Bulgarian Empire in the late 9th and early 10th century, where the first original hagiographies were produced on Cyril and Methodius, Clement of Ohrid and Naum of Preslav.
The Fates, primary antagonists of season five of the superhero television series Legends of Tomorrow The Fates/Moirai, referenced in Edward P.
Lincoln's maxim and philosophy were, 'What is to be, will be, and no prayers of ours can arrest the decree.' He never joined any church.
The term is used in the Indonesian and Malaysian languages with very similar meanings and spellings, i.e.
They cite the billions of dollars in arms sales to Venezuela and the construction of Iranian nuclear facilities as well as the rejection of added sanctions on Iran.
Polkinghorne argues that an apparently simple event like boiling water, where a small quantity of liquid changes into a large quantity of steam (a phase transition) would seem miraculous to someone who had not seen it every day.
His suggested explanation, however, did not deal with the question of why such a belief became central to the religion.
In the twentieth century, theologians such as Paul Tillich described God as the "ground of being" rather than a being among others, influencing post-theistic and existential theology.
The fourth section sets forth the Pope as the supreme judge in matters of faith and morals, though making the concessions that the Pope may err in questions of fact known by ordinary human knowledge and when he speaks as a mere unofficial theologian.
Sacred mysteries may be either: Religious beliefs, rituals or practices which are kept secret from the uninitiated.
Names Atonement and atoning both derive from the verb atone, from the Middle English attone or atoon (meaning "agreed" or "at one").
Okada's teaching is represented by a number of his works, such as Foundation of Paradise and Johrei: Divine Light of Salvation, which has been edited and translated by the Society of Johrei, an offshoot of COWM.
"The Commonitory of Vincent of Lérins, for the antiquity and universality of the catholic faith against the profane novelties of all heresies".
Judaism The first mention of the fear of God in the Hebrew Bible is in Genesis 22:12, where Abraham is commended for putting his trust in God.
In rejecting Kamwana, his former followers referred to Chilembwe as American, and an African minister at Blantyre Mission regarded his views on race as American, not a description with millennial significance.
The modern formulation was popularized by Thomas à Kempis' devotional book The Imitation of Christ written in early 15th century.
Etymology The term orthopraxy comes from the Greek orthos, meaning "straight", and praxis, meaning "action".
Almost in the Index In 1590, Pope Sixtus V had, of his own initiative, placed the first volume on a new edition of the Index Librorum Prohibitorum for denying that the pope had direct temporal authority over the whole world.
Divine law is any body of law that is perceived as deriving from a transcendent source, such as the will of God or gods – in contrast to man-made law or to secular law.
The phoenix, identified as a controller of winds, was called "Messenger of Di" (史風) and received its own sacrifices.
In parapsychology and Spiritualism, an apport is the alleged paranormal transference of an article from one place to another, or an appearance of an article from an unknown source that is often associated with poltergeist activity or séances.
Content The Cave of Treasures belongs to the genre of "rewritten Bible" that recounts biblical history from the creation of the world to the life of Christ within a different framework; in this case, a Syriac one.
This consequently works in a manner that promotes future loyalty of the vassal since the suzerain had previously done favors for them.
In 2021, the Wauwatosa building was listed as among the five most haunted places in Wisconsin by Milwaukee Magazine.
The Je Khenpo is also responsible for many important liturgical and religious duties across the country.
As spiritual and mystic traditions developed, the Jewish concept of the soul underwent a number of changes.
He believed that the "thousand-year kingdom" began with the birth of Christ, but that the thousand years should not be understood literally.
Gallery Biblical scenes INRI examples See also Christ the King Ichthys Names and titles of Jesus in the New Testament Titulus Crucis References Notes Citations === Sources ===
The most important site is located in Malhargadh village in Guna district where Taran Svami spent his final years and where his last rites were performed.
Imperial Rome and Christian Triumph: Oxford History of Early Non-Pauline Christianity 1998 ISBN 0-19-284201-3 Gaus, Andy.
The council did, however, retain the prohibitions on eating blood or meat containing blood, and meat of animals that were strangled, and on fornication and idolatry, sometimes referred to as the Apostolic Decree.
When the rime and the blowing heat met, the liquid melted and dropped, and this mixture formed the primordial being Ymir, the ancestor of all jötnar.
The recurrence of the nundinae was also considered a dies festus and as such nefas by some Roman scholars as Julius Caesar and Cornelius Labeo, because on it the flaminica dialis offered the sacrifice of a goat to Jupiter in the Regia.
Since we agree in rejecting without reservation the teaching of Eutyches as well as of Nestorius, the acceptance or non-acceptance of the Council of Chalcedon does not entail the acceptance of either heresy.
Extraordinary means are those "which cannot be obtained or used without excessive expense, pain, or other inconvenience, or which, if used, would not offer a reasonable hope of benefit." They involve a disproportionately great burden on the patient or community.
According to Hayyim ben Joseph Vital, women could not become dybbuks because their souls did not participate in gilgul.
The conversation begins when two British students ask Neuburg about a version of the story in which Crowley turned him into a zebra and sold him to a zoo.
Rizal meant by "blind faith" was, since it was impossible to comprehend God as He was plus supra, he could have only hinged his belief on the fact that "God was God." As such, he did not deny nor did he accept the religious explanations of the mortals around him.
Bede's commentary (written around 705) was the most important commentary since Ticonius and played a leading role until the time of Joachim of Fiore (d.
In Introvigne's opinion, the most significant portraits of the mahatmas "in Theosophical history" were painted by Schmiechen.
For these reasons the scarab was seen as a symbol of this heavenly cycle and of the idea of rebirth or regeneration.
This development from the relative or habitual to the absolute is evident in the terms ethics and morality as well, both being derived from terms for "regional custom", Greek ἦθος and Latin mores, respectively (see also siðr).
The identification of the Roman Catholic Church with the Whore of Babylon is kept in the Scofield Reference Bible (whose 1917 edition identified "ecclesiastical Babylon" with "apostate Christendom headed by the Papacy").
Museum no.: CBS 08322 Archived 2011-09-28 at the Wayback Machine Barton, George Aaron., Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions, Yale University Press, 1918.
Other uses The term 'body of light' is also used in Tibetan Buddhism, particularly in the Dzogchen and Mahamudra traditions.
People from neighbouring villages were invited to help celebrate this ritual, in which men in the village then take shots at the cub with blunted ceremonial arrows, until the time came for it to be slaughtered.
At the time of its establishment, it was the first school dedicated to the teaching of Spiritualism, and as of 2025, it remains the only such institution in the world.
A cake of light contains flour, honey, Abramelin oil, olive oil, beeswing, and bodily fluids such as semen, menstrual blood, vaginal fluids, or a mix thereof.
Hence Pope Paul VI's papal encyclical of 3 September 1965 on the Eucharist was titled, from its opening words, Mysterium fidei.
Each sephira and path is assigned various ideas, such as gods, cards of the Tarot, astrological planets and signs, elements, and so forth.
Yantra In esoteric traditions such as tantra, particularly the Sri Chakra tradition, the main icon (yantra) has nine interlocking triangles.
Other contextual meanings of the term include "race, caste, family, fertility symbol, grain or seed".
One study found that praying for a friend or thinking positive thoughts about that person every day for four weeks increases the chances of forgiving that friend or partner, which leads to a better relationship.
Burke's religious thought was grounded in his belief that religion is the foundation of civil society.
Noll writes, "At least early on, Lincoln was probably also a Universalist who believed in the eventual salvation of all people." Lincoln was often perplexed by the attacks on his character by way of his religious choices.
Critics argue that forgiveness interventions may increase negative affect because they try to inhibit the person's feelings towards the offender.
Canonization The Orthodox belief is that God reveals saints through answered prayers and other miracles.
Similarly to many religions, the Ainu also gave prayers and offerings to their ancestors in the spirit world or afterlife.
Though kangaroo meat was once unpopular with modern Australians, it has become a lot more popular in recent years due to its reputation as a low-fat and low-emission meat, and can be found in most supermarkets.
In an interview conducted in September 1980, three months before his death, Lennon told Playboy journalist David Sheff: "People always got the image I was an anti-Christ or antireligion.
They argue that the conditional promise of 1 Kings 9:4–7 seems to undercut this unconditional covenant.
§ Placenta origins) that the concept of the supernatural fylgja cannot be completely dissociated from this secondary meaning; in fact, there may well be a connection to the hamr, referring to the skin used by shapeshifters (hamramr, cf.
In contrast to supersessionism, Latter Day Saints do not dispute the "chosen" status of the Jewish people.
In contrast, Calvin believes that the practice of praying to saints is a demonstration of "distrust, because they are either not contented with Christ as an intercessor or have altogether robbed him of this honour".
'Systematic theology', on the other hand, is broader in compass than dogmatics, if the latter is taken to be concerned with teaching which has acquired ecclesial definition and approval, since systematic theology occupies itself more generally with Christian claims about reality.
Earlier excavation reports predominantly referenced magnetic north, according to current Hokkaido data.
Nagendranath Bhaduri – Bhaduri Mahasaya served as an Acharya of the Baluhati branch of the Adi Brahmo Samaj.
Ahmad al-Tayyib, the Grand Imam of al-Azhar, highly praised the book by saying that it has several words that deserve to be written in gold water.
Within Thelema, Ra-Hoor-Khuit is called 'Lord of the Aeon' (which began in 1904 according to Thelemic doctrine), and 'The Crowned and Conquering Child'.
Hart continues to say that, in other funerary papyri, the pelican can predict safe travel for a dead person in the Underworld.
Randhir Singh, founder of the AKJ, stated: Without fully knowing the Rehat [practice] of a Gursikh, another Gursikh should not accept food from their hands.
Nyelvrokonaink kultúrája és hagyományai [The book title means: “Uralic peoples / Culture and traditions of our linguistic relatives”; the chapter title means “The belief system of Uralic peoples and the shamanism”] (in Hungarian).
Other examples include Makoto Yukimura's Vinland Saga, a manga featuring the Viking invasion and rule of England, where the character Askeladd, a Norwegian-Welsh half-blood, recounts the tale of his ancestor King Artorius and his glorious return from Avalon to save Britannia.
The English translations below are from Gelbert (2011), while the Mandaic transliterations are derived from Gelbert (2011, 2021).
Participants were led to believe they were assisting in an unrelated experiment in which they had to inflict electric shocks on another person.
On the other hand, Sun Ho, a Singaporean Christian pastor and former singer, praised Madonna's music contribution in the field of dance music in 2006.
Mendenhall, covenants were originally established as legal customs and then later were replicated in the field of religion.
Rabbi Pini Dunner discusses that humility is to place others first; it is to appreciate others' worth as important.
It has been pointed out that "The laws governing such matters as hospitality, the rights of the heads of households, marriage, blood-feuds and payment of damages find precise echoes in Vedic India and ancient Greece and Rome".
Biblical and rabbinic sources tend to emphasize covenantal and ethical interpretations of the holiness of the People of Israel.
In times past, cruel practices were commonly used by legitimate governments to maintain law and order, often without protest from the Pastors of the Church, who themselves adopted in their own tribunals the prescriptions of Roman law concerning torture.
The Uruguayan diplomatic representative studied at the Colegio y Liceo del Sagrado Corazón (Padres Jesuitas) in Montevideo and also attended the Instituto de Estudios Humanísticos y Clásicos de la Compañía de Jesús.
See also Sacred trees and groves in Germanic paganism and mythology Ten realms Notes and citations == References ==
Shrines and feast days, when authorized by the church, are typical signs of approval since they are part of devotion to private revelation.
Christians also argue that the names Zerubbabel and Shealtiel in the two lineages have different parents and children and therefore are just common names that do not refer to the same people.
He comes to desire Sauron's power for himself, so he betrays the Istari and tries to take over Middle-earth by force, creating an army in his fastness of Isengard.
Public religion in both Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome involved a complex interplay between civic life and sacred presence.
Ceremonies mainly consist of making libations of sake, saying prayers, and offering willow sticks with wooden shavings attached to them.
At the weigh-in before the first Ali-Liston fight, Ali had shouted: "It is prophesied that I should win!
It refers to an apostate false queen, a former "bride" who has been unfaithful and who, even though she has been divorced and cast out because of unfaithfulness, continues to falsely claim to be the "queen" of the spiritual realm.
The Greek Septuagint and some later Christian translations, following the application of Isaiah 7 in Matthew 1, use the word "virgin".
Several chapters and a photograph in the book reference Leila Waddell, whom Crowley called Laylah, and who, as Crowley's influential Scarlet Woman, acted as his muse during the writing process of this volume.
Reuss died in 1923 without naming a successor, and Crowley was subsequently elected and ratified as Outer Head of the Order in a Conference of Grand Masters in 1925.
Christian religion and ethics are the primary topic of the sermons with emphasis on marriage, repentance, hardening the heart, charity, pride, wisdom, and compassion.
Moroni, the last prophet of the book, wrote about love: But charity is the pure love of Christ, and it endureth forever; and whoso is found possessed of it at the last day, it shall be well with him.
It is similar to the concepts of zhōngyōng (中庸) of Chinese Confucianism and sattva (सत्त्व) of Indian thought.
Until 1952, it was wrongly labeled as an African fetish, but scholars have confirmed that it is Taíno from the early 16th century and exhibits elements of Caribbean, European, and African artistic influences.
34 Then he went up and lay on the child, putting his mouth on his mouth, his eyes on his eyes, and his hands on his hands.
Christianity The Mosaic covenant or Law of Moses, which Christians generally call the "Old Covenant" in contrast to the New Covenant, has played an important role in the shaping of Christianity.
However, opponents of the anthropic argument argue that it is flawed and does not necessarily prove the existence of God.
Local Catholics counter-protested in support of the statue by praying the rosary in front of the statue.
Evidence indicates he occasionally faked signatures as a way to gain authority from a "guide from the past"; however, these signatures were dated beyond the lifetimes of the deceased.
The Panthoibi Naheron (ꯄꯥꯟꯊꯣꯏꯕꯤ ꯅꯥꯍꯦꯔꯣꯟ), also known as the Panthoibi Naheiron (ꯄꯥꯟꯊꯣꯏꯕꯤ ꯅꯥꯍꯩꯔꯣꯟ), or the Panthoibi Naherol (ꯄꯥꯟꯊꯣꯏꯕꯤ ꯅꯥꯍꯦꯔꯣꯜ), or the Panthoibi Naheirol (ꯄꯥꯟꯊꯣꯏꯕꯤ ꯅꯥꯍꯩꯔꯣꯜ) (transl.
Contrary to misconceptions, meekness is not synonymous with weakness; rather, it embodies the gentleness of the strong, who exercise control over their strength.
Peters, divine laws are typically perceived as superior to man-made laws, sometimes due to an assumption that their source has resources beyond human knowledge and human reason.
At the same time, remission of the temporal punishment for the pilgrims' sins is granted, known as an indulgence.
See also Apophatic theology Conceptions of God Fideism Ietsism Ineffability Münchhausen trilemma Mysticism Newton's flaming laser sword Problem of religious language Thought-terminating cliché Eliminative materialism References Bibliography == External links ==
The Middle Persian term engendered the better-attested Arabic زنديق zindiq, with the same semantic field but related to Islam rather than Zoroastrianism.
Al-T̲h̲aʿlabī, however, related, closely following the Gospel of John: "Lazarus [Al-ʿĀzir] died, his sister sent to inform Jesus, Jesus came three (in the Gospel, four) days after his death, went with his sister to the tomb in the rock and caused Lazarus to arise; children were born to him".
Upon the return of Jesus Christ, all people will be resurrected, the righteous in a first resurrection and the unrighteous in a second, later resurrection.
Mannhardt extensively studied mostly representations of spirits associated with the harvest and the broader category, spirits of vegetation, representing the annual cycle of dying and resurrecting vegetation.
Asclepius was "the one who leads and controls all things, the savior of the whole world, and the guardian of mortals." Helen of Troy was worshiped as a heroine in several parts of the ancient world during the early historical epoch.
The wider area around Jerusalem, or the Holy Land, is referred to in Arabic and in Islamic sources as al ard al-muqaddasa (also Bilād al-Muqaddasa), as it is full of shrines and connections to prophets and saints.
"Evil has accumulated for innumerable generations through the inheritance of sins", and heaven has sent the Celestial Master to save humanity.
Much more the behavior of beings with free will, then they disobey God's orders, harming others or putting themselves over God or others, is considered to be evil.
Animal analogues The classical Greek word used to translate meekness was also that for a horse that had been tamed and bridled.
It means "hearing, listening", a call to "listen to a speech", any form of communication that is aggregate of sounds (news, report, rumour, noise, hearsay).
This ritual caused injury to bystanders, and to Pope Paul VI himself while striking down the door, so for the Great Jubilee of 2000, Pope John Paul II simplified the rite considerably.
The severity of the transgression was measured by three different factors and rated on a scale of severity.
Despite the controversy surrounding some of his work, Vereshchagin continued painting battles and their aftermaths until his death during the Russo-Japanese War.
Elysium is labeled a land for the blessed, whereas those who committed horrible deeds were sent to the deepest part of the underworld, Tartarus.
Meditation can train the mind to be sensitive and flexible, which results in developing and maintaining a state of composure, peace, and balance.
Leadbeater (Theosophist), suggesting that for a living human to experience the spirit world is a blissful, meaningful and life-changing experience.
The Doctrine of Tenrikyo, which systematically summarizes Tenrikyo's beliefs and practices, was published in 1949.
Rousseau's romantic fallacy that it is society which corrupts man, not man who corrupts society, places a flattering gauze between ourselves and reality.
The Baháʼí Faith continues a tradition found in Islam of not using depictions in art of people considered a Manifestation of God.
Judaism In Hebrew, Ahava is the most Commonly used term for both interpersonal love of family and love of God.
The Formula of Concord rejects antinomianism in the fifth article, On the Law and the Gospel and in the sixth article, On the Third Use of the Law.
One of the better-known uses of this motif is by Mike Barr and Brian Bolland, who has Arthur and his knights returning in the year 3000 to save the Earth from an alien invasion in the comic book series Camelot 3000 (1982–85).
Millenarian movements The Andean Taki Unquy movement of the 1560s and 1570s, opposing the diseases arriving with the Spanish conquerors.
They are found in Cuba, Dominican Republic, Haiti, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, and other Caribbean islands.
Lewis references the term in many of his writings, but specifically describes it in his book The Problem of Pain and states that fear of the numinous is not a fear that one feels for a tiger, or even a ghost.
For this reason the Magician will anoint first the top of his head before proceeding to consecrate the lower centres in their turn (...) It is the pure light translated into terms of desire.
This was translated by George Aaron Barton in 1918 and first published as "Sumerian religious texts" in Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions, number two, entitled "An Old Babylonian Oracle".
This "hierarchy of spiritual leaders" she calls the "Masters of the Wisdom," and they all report to and work with Christ, Jesus of Nazareth.
However, the redemption of man is not considered to have taken place only in the past, but continues to this day through theosis.
Barton suggests Enlil then appears and takes Enki's axe, presumably to chop cedars for the building he proceeds to guard.
Historian Michael Bronski says that the Friend would not have been called transgender or transvestite "by the standards and the vocabulary" of the time, but has called the Friend a "transgender evangelist".
Booth," and according to Michael Brooke of BFI Screenonline, "combines elements of the previous year's The Unfortunate Policeman with a special effects sequence.
The name of Lake Manitoba (for which the Canadian province of Manitoba is named) derives from the area called manitou-wapow, or "strait of the Manitou" in Cree or Ojibwe, referring to the strange sound of waves crashing against rocks near the Narrows of the lake.
Other authorities also permit a king to initiate a war, since a king is the supreme commander of the army.
The temple rituals are as follows: The follower enters the temple and bows to the altar as the sign of respect then recites three verses drawn from Taran Svami's texts known as Tatva Patha or Tatva Mangal in front of the altar.
–Targum Onkelos Man as nephesh The LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground[adamah], and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life[nishmat ḥayim]; and man became a living soul[lenephesh ayyah].
The messiah complex is a mental state in which a person believes they are a messiah or prophet and will save or redeem people in a religious endeavour.
The first 25 lines were published by Van Dijk in 1965 but a translation of the entire text has still not been made.1 The large surface of the earth introduced herself; then she has embellished herself as with a bardul-garment.
Concepts of universal atonement can transcend all religions, as in unlimited atonement, the doctrine that the atonement is unlimited in extent, and universal reconciliation, the doctrine that all will eventually come to salvation.
Psychiatrist Thomas Szasz wrote in The Second Sin (1973): "If you talk to God, you are praying; if God talks to you, you have schizophrenia.
See also Lazarus of Bethany, patron saint archive Corpse decomposition Lazarus Saturday Ministry of Jesus Panagia Alexiotissa, Patras Seven signs in the Gospel of John Category:Paintings of the Resurrection of Lazarus Notes References == External links ==
Housman a writer in "a blasphemous, antinomian, 'cynical' strain", meaning defiant of arbitrary societal rules.
By the time of Cicero, sacrilege had adopted a more expansive meaning, including verbal offences against religion and the undignified treatment of sacred objects.
Book 8 Book 8 (10 in the Al-Saadi edition) deals briefly with creation and evil, and contains Manda ḏ-Hayyi's warnings against Ruha.
The yoni iconography is typically represented in the form of a horizontally placed round or square base with a lipped edge and an opening in the center usually with a cylindrical lingam.
In the New Testament, the Greek word traditionally translated "soul" (ψυχή) "psyche", has substantially the same meaning as the Hebrew, without reference to an immortal soul.
Following his completion of the painting, Vereshchagin dedicated his work "to all great conquerors, past, present and to come".
See also Common law Customary law Hadith Jurisprudence Revelation Uncodified constitution Citations and notes References Finnegan, Ruth H., A Note on Oral Tradition and Historical Evidence, in History and Theory 10 (1970), 195–201.
For instance, the Babylonian creation story from 1250 BCE follows the same blueprint as virtually every story of redemptive violence put forward today.
A female police assistant physically examined Rothe and discovered 157 flowers as well as oranges and lemons hidden in her petticoat.
Etymology The word saint derives from the Latin sanctus, meaning "holy" or "consecrated", and entered English through Old French seint and Middle English saint, retaining its meaning as a holy person and historically used to refer to individuals regarded as holy.
Expulsion In traditional Jewish communities, the concept of the dybbuk served as a socially acceptable way of expressing unacceptable urges, including sexual ones.
These translations, in their attempt to reconcile and merge the two Syriac recensions, represent different interpretive traditions of the same work.
Athenaeus also alludes to the idea that many of Aphrodite’s temples and sanctuaries were occupied by temple prostitutes.
Rationalist Descartes uses the physiological term "animal spirits" to refer to corpuscles composed of the "most vivid and subtle" parts of the blood, which move the body as they circulate from brain to muscle (Discours de la méthode, V) (1637).
Salvation therefore is described as the realization that all finite reality is essentially dependent on the Supreme.
They recommend a learned and respected monk ordained in accordance with the Druk-lu who possesses the nine qualities of a spiritual master, and is accomplished in ked-dzog (spiritual development and completion), to the King of Bhutan.
271, same edition): "Once at Jerusalem, she was held back from entering the church with the other pilgrims by an invisible and irresistible force.
From the anthroposophy teachings of Rudolf Steiner, "Pneumatosophy" (wisdom of the spirit) can be seen as part of his teachings on spiritual science and approaches the human spirit in terms of truth and error and the meaning and the effects of imagination, intuition, and inspiration.
Mahayana Buddhism has formal liturgical practices for venerating saints, along with very specific levels of sainthood.
Takashima Ken-ichi and Li Fa further illustrated it through two sentences in which a single ritualized process was used to appease both "winds" and locusts.
The Bible was gifted to President Lincoln by the Citizens Volunteer Hospital of Philadelphia on June 16, 1864.
Symbols, amulets and omens Insects have often been taken to represent qualities, for good or ill, and accordingly have been used as amulets to ward off evil, or as omens that predict forthcoming events.
Their guilt is derived not from a feeling of rejection by deity, but by a self-rejection as they become aware of the gulf which separates them from the ideals of the Buddha.
Consumption of any sort of rodent, or material originating from rodents, is forbidden by Judaism and Islam.
According to the Manifesto, OSOGD teaches "a progressively tiered system of spiritual development designed to invoke the Higher or Divine Genius latent in every human being".
Latria, hyperdulia, protodulia and dulia Christian theologians have long adopted the terms latria for the type of worship due to God alone, and dulia and proskynesis for the veneration given to angels, saints, relics and icons.
Monist approaches avoid the objections to dualism by rejecting the idea that mind and body are fundamentally distinct.
The Denkard, a 9th-11th century work of Zoroastrian tradition, attributes this systemization of doctrine—in which certain beliefs and traditions were seen as definite while others were considered unacceptable—to an initiative by Tansar, high priest under Ardashir I, the founder of the dynasty.
In his Lectures on the History of Philosophy, Hegel continues: “in recent times no other philosophy has been so much offended against as this [sc.
Arkansas The epistemic conception of the miraculous does not agree with the definition given in the famous McLean v.
Argument from reason Philosophers and scientists including Victor Reppert, William Hasker, and Alvin Plantinga have expanded on the "Argument from reason" and credit Lewis with first bringing the argument to light in Miracles.
On education Johnson responds to Jenyns's final argument, that the ends justify the means when it comes to keeping the poor uneducated, by saying: I am always afraid of determining on the side of envy or cruelty.
He further criticized Aristotle's idea whereby every unique soul requires the existence of a unique source, in this case the heart.
It is an official publication for Babes of the Abyss, but is recommended even to beginners as highly suggestive." The book consists of 93 chapters, each of which consists of one page of text.
While some may think of equanimity as dry neutrality or cool aloofness, mature equanimity produces a radiance and warmth of being.
Mythical theology is practiced by story-tellers, especially poets, based on narratives (mythoi) pertaining to divine matters.
The punishment for apostasy includes state enforced annulment of his or her marriage, seizure of the person's children and property with automatic assignment to guardians and heirs, and death for the apostate.
Is there any healer who can cure me?" Namungbi suggests the name of Wangbaren Khana Chaoba (Wangpulen), the water god of the southern valley.
He attended Colegio y Liceo del Sagrado Corazón (Jesuits) for his secondary education, later joining the Novitiate of the Society of Jesus in Córdoba, Argentina, where he studied literature and humanities at the Institute of Letters and Classical Humanities.
Some Hindu saints are given god-like status, being seen as incarnations of Vishnu, Shiva, and other aspects of God, sometimes many years after their deaths.
Myths of the Creation of Man and the Origin of Death in Africa: a Study in Igbo Traditional Culture and Other African Cultures.
Choronzon is deemed to be held in check by the power of the goddess Babalon, inhabitant of Binah, the third sephirah of the Tree of Life.
The "ethereal horse" in the painting, which may be Pegasus, rejecting the riders who attempt to reach the stars, again signals the cessation of the myth.
This conception implied, as in the biblical parable Lazarus and Dives, that there is considered a greater distance between good and bad spirits than between the dead and the living.
In ancient Roman religion and myth, the Parcae (singular: Parca) were the female personifications of destiny who directed the lives (and deaths) of humans and gods.
When in Genesis 1:26 God says "Let us make man", the Hebrew word used is adam; in this form it is a generic noun, "mankind", and does not imply that this creation is male.
In developed animism the transformation of a demon or god leads to its anthropomorphism, humanization.
Holy Although the English language terms sacred and holy are similar in meaning, and they are sometimes used interchangeably, they carry subtle differences.
People subscribing to popular monotheistic religions for instance, might fear Hell and divine judgment, or submit to God's omnipotence.
He also described this attainment as a possible and in fact a necessary step for all who truly followed his path.
Christianity Meekness, as understood in the Christian perspective, finds its embodiment in the actions and teachings of Jesus Christ.
This section also includes an "Interlude", which is a humorous exposition on the magical interpretations of popular nursery rhymes, such as Old Mother Hubbard and Little Bo Peep.
We have often emphasized that the human being does not only consist of the visible parts that can be seen with the eye, but that the human being also consists of invisible, supersensible members.
Beginning in the late 19th century, the seven rays appeared in a modified and elaborated form in the teachings of Theosophy, first presented by Helena Blavatsky.
The former found himself the object of worship by inhabitants of the island of Tanna; in an example of "mutual mythmaking", the British government encouraged such adulation, even going so far as to send autographed portraits to the prince's acolytes.
As a result, some ages are filled with prosperity and peace due to common goodness, whereas other eras are filled with suffering, dishonesty and short lifespans.
The Whore's apocalyptic downfall is prophesied to take place in the hands of the image of the beast with seven heads and ten horns.
Hartley calls this reorienting transformation the “annihilation of self.” This “annihilation” is not quasi-mystical obliteration; rather, it is a reorientation toward, or discovery of, a higher self of sympathy, theopathy, and the moral sense.
He said, "But you have printed it in the plainest language." I said that I could not have done so because I did not know it.
This phrase appears in the Qur'an a number of times, where it is thought to refer in some cases to the angel Gabriel.
Civil in the 1960s from 24 manuscripts but it is currently the least studied of the disputation poems and a full translation has not yet been published.
The Ambrosian Bible or Ambrosian Tanakh of 1236 by Jacob ben Samuel and Joseph ben Kalonymus is one of the earliest Ashkenazic illuminated manuscripts and biblical codices.
But after a night in prayer and experience of a locution from the figure of Christ crucified, he decided to stay on.
Probabilists reply to this argument that liberty is always in possession, since law and obligation presuppose liberty in the subject.
In Lezgin, the terms Аллагьа гайитIа (Allaha ghayita) and ин шаа Аллагь (inshallah) are widely used by Lezgins, with the meaning "hopefully" or "if God wills".
Thus, in the year 1516, Reuchlin's diagram came to appear on the cover of the Paolo Riccio's Latin translation of Joseph ben Abraham Gikatilla's Gates of Light.
She claimed that in Tibet, she was taught an ancient, unknown language known as Senzar, and translated a number of ancient texts written in this language that were preserved by the monks of a monastery; she stated that she was, however, not permitted entry into the monastery itself.
This was the third time during Inslee's tenure the state's budget was passed in the last week of the legislative session.
Education and career Nordhaus was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico, the son of Virginia (Riggs) and Robert J.
Eventually, this cost grew so great that any new challenges such as invasions and crop failures could not be solved by the acquisition of more territory.
He "does not intend to have a cell phone ever." Smil is known for being "intensely private", shunning the press while letting his books speak for themselves.
His speeches and networking with world leaders at international meetings such as the United Nations Climate Change Conferences have also been influential.
The Energy Gang Shah was a founding co-host of The Energy Gang, a podcast dedicated to exploring the technological, political, and market forces driving energy and environmental issues.
Yohe also worked with the Core Writing Team to prepare the overall Synthesis Report for the entire Assessment.
Lynch said LaRouche members began to impersonate her and her researchers in telephone calls, and called her "Fat Lynch" in their publications.
Copenhagen Consensus Bjørn Lomborg chose Tol to participate in his "Copenhagen Consensus" project in 2008.
I will defend myself." In 1987, a number of LaRouche entities, including the Fusion Energy Foundation, were taken over through an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding.
Jaccard has been a professor at Simon Fraser University since 1986, where he teaches courses in environment and resource economics, sustainable energy and materials, and energy and materials economic and policy modeling.
On July 2, 2013, Zucchet (an avid bridge and card player at Duke University), finished in 4th place for $143,642 in Event #54, $1,000 No-Limit Hold'em, at the World Series of Poker.
Shihab-Eldin currently serves as an adjunct professor at the Executive Academy of the Vienna University of Economics and Business (WU), teaching in the MBA Energy Management program and sitting on its advisory board.
He taught two graduate courses: Ec2680 Environmental and Natural Resource Economics and Ec2690, Environmental Economics and Policy Seminar.
Selected publications Books Auctions: Theory and Practice, Princeton University Press, Princeton, US, 2004.
Three years later, Weitzman was promoted to associate professor, and he remained in this position until 1972 when he joined the faculty at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as an associate professor.
Prior to the Loan Programs Office, Shah gained prominence as an American clean energy entrepreneur, author and podcast host.
Consisting of academics drawn from across Africa, the United States of America, and the United Kingdom, the board assisted in the development and broadening of technical workforce skills across Africa.
Honors Scientific and engineering academies Among many honors, he is a Member of the United States National Academy of Sciences, the American Philosophical Society, and an Elected Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
In April 2004, Currie warned of the 'revenge of the old economy' after decades of a lack of investment in the old economy, claiming that higher commodity prices were likely needed to attracted capital.
His research considers the degree to which US companies avoid pollution regulations by importing dirty products; an explanation of why pollution is worse for middle-income countries; and how to use self-reported happiness measures to put a dollar value on air quality.
Education and qualifications Tertzakian has an undergraduate degree in Geophysics from the University of Alberta, and a graduate degree in Econometrics from the University of Southampton, U.K.
A founding co-director of Harvard's Solar Geoengineering Research Program (2017–2019) he joined the faculty of New York University in 2019, moving to Columbia University in 2022.
Jigar Shah (born August 30, 1974) is an American entrepreneur who served as the director of the Loan Programs Office (LPO) in the U.S.
The CNN article article was subsequently shared by Questlove and others; Wagner recounted the episode in a conversation with Holly Buck.
His analysis on this subject has featured prominently in the Financial Times, which described it as "thought provoking": [Newell] argued that "there has never been an energy transition" because, as each new technology has emerged, it has merely added to older sources, rather than replacing them.
Those books include, Managing the Global Commons: The Economics of Climate Change (1994), which won the 2006 award for "Publication of Enduring Quality" from the Association of Environmental and Resource Economists.
Among books promoted as serious intellectual statements by important thinkers, I don't think I have ever read a shoddier work.
He taught courses in micro- and macro-economics, econometrics, industrial organization, and economic strategy.
In 2009, Tol published a controversial paper that combined data from several earlier studies, concluding that at least some amount of global warming could lead to economic gains.
Johnson wrote in 1983 that both the Fusion Energy Foundation and the National Democratic Policy Committee had attracted some 20,000 members, as well as 300,000 magazine subscribers.
His father returned from military service in World War II and, considering himself unable to care for his son, placed him in an orphanage.
He also led the negotiations of the foreign investment provisions of the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA).
Awards In 1996 he was awarded the Stratospheric Ozone Protection Award by the United States Environmental Protection Agency and in 2007 he was presented with the Leontief Prize for Advancing the Frontiers of Economic Thought by the Global Development and Environment Institute.
The Mayan and Chacoan regions had no powerful complex neighbors and so could collapse for centuries or millennia, as could the Western Roman Empire.
Sophie Brochu (born 1963) is a Canadian economist and manager from Quebec who worked for 22 years at Gaz Métro/Énergir.
Climate and energy policy Wagner was an economist at the Environmental Defense Fund from 2008 to 2014 and lead senior economist from 2014 to 2016.
See also Andy Stirling David Elliott Energy Fair Gordon Walker World Nuclear Industry Status Report == References ==
Since the sun will continue to shine for billions of years to come, the earth's mineral stock is the scarcer one of these two main sources of low entropy.
2, Brill, Leiden Staff "Meyer, Albert Julius (1919-1983)" (1984) Contemporary Authors: A bio-bibliographical guide to current writers in fiction, general nonfiction, poetry, journalism, drama, motion pictures, television, and other fields Vol.
Albert Julius Meyer (14 May 1919 – 31 October 1983) was an American economist who taught at Harvard University for 28 years.
Early life Broadman was born in New York City, attended The Loomis Chaffee School, and graduated from Brown University in 1977 with an A.B.
Gary Yohe later accused Lomborg of "deliberate distortion of our conclusions", adding that "as one of the authors of the Copenhagen Consensus Project's principal climate paper, I can say with certainty that Lomborg is misrepresenting our findings thanks to a highly selective memory".
Instead of putting goods and their prices directly into the index we should reduce all goods to their constituent characteristics.
In 2012, Keohane returned to the Environmental Defense Fund as vice president for Global Climate, and later served as Senior Vice President for Climate.
Education After completing his Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) degree in Environmental Sciences and his M.A.
Education Ph.D.: University of Grenoble, Department of Economics / Institute of Energy Economics and Policy, 1987.
During the 2008 financial crisis, he advised the UK and US governments and developed a new form of auction (the Product Mix auction) to help the Bank of England alleviate the liquidity crisis.
He would reprise the role as band leader with an ad hoc jazz group, Lee Schipper and the Mitigators, who performed primarily in conjunction with energy-related conferences.
He specialises in the economics and policy of nuclear power (of which he is a critic), liberalisation and privatisation of the electricity and gas industries, and trade policy on network energy industries.
From that point on, he predicts, ever deepening scarcities will cause widespread misery, aggravate social conflict throughout the globe, and intensify man's economic struggle to work and earn a livelihood.
He stood for Lothian East at the 2024 general election, where he finished in seventh place out of seven candidates, winning 577 votes and a 1.2% share.
Instead of a peak, Yergin predicted that future oil production would plateau as increasing prices moderate demand and stimulate production.
His best-known work, The Collapse of Complex Societies (1988), examines the collapse of Maya and Chacoan civilizations, and of the Western Roman Empire, in terms of network theory, energy economics and complexity theory.
Spatial Ecological-Economic Analysis for Wetland Management: Modelling and Scenario Evaluation of Land Use, Cambridge University Press.
He also holds a Master of Science in Management of Technology from the MIT Sloan School of Management.
Intense, authoritarian efforts to maintain cohesion by Domitian and Constantine the Great only led to ever greater strain on the population.
Later in his life, Georgescu-Roegen would regret having turned down Schumpeter's generous offer at this point in his career.
Currie was a key speaker alongside other leading private, public and Governmental figures at the Future Minerals Forum 2024, where he contributed to the conference's key focus on the mineral sector across Africa, Western and Central Asia.
While on leave from Georgetown in 2010–11, he served as a Senior Economist at the White House Council of Economic Advisers.
EPA's highest honor for working with a team of economists that completed "complex and rigorous analysis of greenhouse gas mitigation options, leading to President Clinton's announcement of an aggressive climate change policy." March 1998.
He is a professor in the management department at Western Washington University, where from 2016 to 2023 he served as Wilder Distinguished Professor of Business and Sustainability, an endowed professorship.
Wagner's latest academic work on this topic, joint with Kent Daniel of Columbia University and Bob Litterman of Kepos Capital further emphasizes the importance of pricing climate risk and uncertainty.
He served as an expert witness at the Department of Energy's hearings on the National Energy Strategy and testified at Congressional hearings on priorities in global climate change research.
Tainter points out that it can be seen as a rational preference of individuals, many of whom were better off.
Shortly thereafter, two Hollywood environmental organizations, Earth Communications Office (ECO) and the Environmental Media Association, were formed.
He was elected a fellow of the Econometric Society in 1994, a fellow of the British Academy in 1999, and a foreign honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2005.
Georgescu-Roegen found that two of his other main sources of inspiration, namely Karl Pearson and Albert Einstein, also had a largely Machian outlook.
oil import policy, regulatory reform of the natural gas industry, and oil exploration and development in non-OPEC developing countries.
References External links Jigar Shah – Department of Energy Creating Climate Wealth // Amazon Plumer, Brad; Friedman, Lisa (May 11, 2023).
where he did his undergraduate work, majoring in physics and electrical engineering, and received his bachelor's degree in 1966.
He has been a senior fellow of SIEPR since 1998 and a senior fellow by courtesy at the Hoover Institution from 2001 until his retirement.
Economist Filip Palda summarizes the importance of Nordhaus's insight when he writes, The practical lesson to be drawn from this fascinating study of lighting is that the way we measure the consumer price index is severely flawed.
Broadcaster Since 19 October 2019, Milov has been broadcasting a weekly program about international politics, Hugs With Dictators, on his YouTube channel.
Richels has served on a number of national and international advisory panels, including committees of the Department of Energy, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the National Research Council.
In many cases, buyers used the rebate to buy something bigger and more high-powered than they would have otherwise.
He was also a member of the United Nations Environment Programme Economic Options Panel, which reviewed the economic aspects of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer.
Birol's work at the IEA has led to a number of his international honours and recognitions (see table below).
Career In the 1990s and early 2000s, Newell was a senior associate at the global advisory and digital services provider ICF International, a teaching fellow at Harvard University, and a senior fellow at Resources for the Future.
From 1981 to 1984, he worked at Phillips Petroleum Co., where he was Director for International Affairs.
He was the Scottish National Party Member of Parliament (MP) for East Lothian from 2015, until he lost his seat to Martin Whitfield of the Labour Party at the 2017 general election.
In the heated controversies that followed the report, Georgescu-Roegen found himself largely on the same side as the club, and opposed to the mainstream economists.
While at Harvard he co-authored an article arguing for placing a $10.00 tariff on imported oil to curb U.S.
Though trailing in early polls, he won election with 52% of the vote, a three-point margin over his Republican opponent, state attorney general Rob McKenna.
On September 18, 1996, a full-page advertisement appeared in the New Federalist, a LaRouche publication, as well as The Washington Post and Roll Call.
He obtained a master's degree in Electrical Engineering (Technology and Policy Program) in 1993 and a doctorate in Management Science in 1998, both at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
His doctorate thesis, An Econometric Model of Tourism Demand and a Computable General Equilibrium Analysis of the Impact of Tourism: The Case of Fiji Islands was assessed to be the most outstanding work, earning him the Mollie Hollman Medal in 2004 at Monash University.
Sweeney is an American economist and engineer specializing in energy economics, environmental policy, and natural resource economics.
President Prodi remarked that the EU hydrogen R&D initiative would be as significant for the future of Europe as the space program was for the U.S.
"Skip" Laitner, in People-Centered Initiatives for Increasing Energy Savings, Karen Ehrhardt-Martinez and John A.
He pointed out that the study "stops short of the most that can be supported on a cost benefit basis" and stated that "it does not seem reasonable" to rely solely on Tol's own FUND model when alternatives "reported in the peer-reviewed literature are also credible".
When LaRouche's "heavily fortified" estate was surrounded, he at first warned law-enforcement officials not to arrest him, saying that any attempt to do so would be an attempt to kill him.
From 2001 to 2007, he was an Assistant Professor and then associate professor of economics at the Yale School of Management.
A 98-year-old farmer accused Weitzman of multiple manure thefts from the farm, while Weitzman argued he had permission from the farmer's son to take the manure.
According to his ICREA profile page as of March 2015, his research is on "the intersection of economics, environmental science and innovation studies.
See also Societal collapse Collapsology State collapse Wicked problem References Further reading Kohr, Leopold: The Breakdown of Nations, 1957.
He is a winner of the Spinozapremie (1996), the European Prize in Regional Science, and Founder's Medal of the Regional Science Association International.
Currie earned a Master of Arts Economics at the University of Chicago in December 1990, and a PhD in economics from the university in June 1996.
Following the demise of the IMG, Kerevan joined the Labour Party and served as a councillor for the party in Edinburgh from 1984 to 1996.
Stephen DeCanio (born 1942) is a Professor of economics, emeritus, at the University of California, Santa Barbara.
Employment History On completion of his doctoral studies, Narayan was appointed a lecturer at the Griffith Business School, on the Gold Coast, Australia, and was promoted to senior lecturer in 2005.
at Queens University, Leach was appointed as an assistant professor at HEC Montreal, a post he held for three years.
Jaccard, 2014, "A comparative assessment of economic-incentive and command-and-control instruments for air pollution and CO2 control in *China’s iron and steel sector," Journal of Environmental Management.
With Tadeusz Patzek, he is author of Drilling Down: The Gulf Oil Debacle and Our Energy Dilemma, published in 2011.
Evidence for this was publishing 15 letters to the editor in the New York Times on energy efficiency.
One activist said he attended meetings where members were writhing on the floor saying they needed de-programming.
(convening lead author) et al., 2012, "Energy Policies: Objectives and Instruments," Chapter 22 in Johansson, T., Patwardhan, A., Nakicenovic, N.
In 2007-12 he served as convening lead author for energy policy in the production of the Global Energy Assessment.
The aim of the NCLC was to win control of the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) branch – the university's main activist group – and build a political alliance between students, local residents, organized labor, and the Columbia faculty.
He has played a significant role in various EU policy projects and has taught extensively on topics related to sustainable development and energy policy across various international platforms.
He was a lead author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Second, Third and Fourth Assessment Reports (the IPCC shared the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with Al Gore) and served on the Synthesis Team for the US National Assessment of Climate Change Impacts on the United States.
The theme of the presentation was that security assistance in Central America would be enhanced through economic growth and prosperity.
The student involved was allowed to adapt the thesis and the graduation ceremony took place in 2014.
William Martin served for ten years (from 2000 to 2010) as Chairman of the Nuclear Energy Advisory Committee during the administrations of George W.
The process has already begun." His 1998 book, The Biotech Century, addresses issues accompanying the new era of genetic commerce.
His grandfather Olney Flynn was mayor of Tulsa and the Republican nominee for Governor of Oklahoma in 1948.
In addition, Parker is a Research Fellow and Visiting Scholar at the MIT Initiative on the Digital Economy, where he leads platform industry research studies and co-chairs the annual MIT Platform Strategy Summit.
His published research includes a 2001 study in the Journal of Public Economics showing how the environmental Kuznets curve can be explained by a one-person, two-good model without market failures.
Jaccard, 2013, "A tale of two climate policies: Political-economy of British Columbia’s carbon tax and clean electricity standard." Canadian Public Policy.
Testimony, Analysis, and Commentary Newell has testified on multiple occasions in front of the United States Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, most recently on global climate emissions trends and clean energy advancements.
Climate Shock details how what we know about global warming is bad and what we do not know is potentially much worse.
He is also a research associate with the National Bureau of Economic Research and a Fellow of the Econometric Society.
In October 2023, Currie was appointed as Director of the Company by the Board of international drilling contractor, Borr Drilling.
He holds an AB and a PhD in political economy and government from Harvard University, as well as an MA in economics from Stanford University.
Memberships and directorships Yergin is the current vice chairman of S&P Global, appointed during the company's merger with IHS Markit.
5 Behn, Wolfgang (2006) "Meyer, Albert Julius (1919-1983)" Concise Biographical Companion to Index Islamicus Vol.
Rifkin delivered a keynote address on transforming the European Union into a smart third industrial revolution paradigm.
Securing Nebraska’s Energy and Economic Future: Creating Jobs, New Economic Opportunities and Health Benefits through Productive Investments in Wind Energy and Energy Efficiency, by John A.
He was also one of the world's experts on Wilhelm Furtwangler, a 20th-century symphonic and operatic conductor, and collected one of the most complete sets of his recordings.
Public policy He was principal auction-theorist designing the UK '3G' mobile-phone license auction that raised £22½ billion in spring 2000 and was far more successful than several parallel exercises on the European continent.
One of his early works is the wildly popular introductory textbook, Economics, co-authored with Paul Samuelson.
According to Reuters, "since then he has given advice to every administration." 1980s–1990s He founded Cambridge Energy Research Associates (CERA) with Jamey Rosenfield in 1982 with the purchase of a $2 file cabinet from The Salvation Army.
However, in most analyses, the damages that would stem from dramatic climate change are not taken into consideration.
He is also a senior economic research fellow for the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration (RANEPA).
Another article he co-wrote, “Pipelines, Platforms, and the New Rules of Strategy,” was cited in Harvard Business Review’s 2025 “Definitive HBR Strategy Glossary” under the category of Platform Strategy.
Additionally, degrowth is unlikely to gain significant social or political support, making it an ineffective strategy for achieving environmental sustainability.
In 2021, he completed a book on climate change, titled Climate Future: Averting and Adapting to Climate Change (Oxford University Press).
He said ‘‘Lee was one of the first people to point out that people don’t want to consume energy, but they want to consume energy services, like transportation, comfortable rooms, cold beer and so forth.
He previously served as an associate editor for the journal Management Science and was President of the Industry Studies Association.
He acknowledges that this level of taxation is too low to significantly discourage fossil fuel use but argues it would help to stimulate the development of fuel-saving technology and improve the competitiveness of renewable energy sources.
Milov co-authored with the late Boris Nemtsov in 2008 a report on the Putin administration's failures, which was suppressed.
Nicholas Stern argued that the damage function does not capture many of the most important risks to society.
Pachauri, chair of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, for having "contributed substantially to the work of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)," thus contributing to the IPCC's award of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize.
As a UC Berkeley student and vibraphonist, he led his jazz group to victory at the Notre Dame Jazz Festival in 1967.
Trip to the United States, meeting Schumpeter In autumn 1934, Georgescu-Roegen went to the United States.
Leach says that carbon pricing is not necessarily and unconditionally going to "achieve a better outcome" than with regulation or cap and trade.
In Energy Efficiency: Building a Clean, Secure Economy (2016), he argued that improvements in energy efficiency have played a central role in U.S.
After teaching at Tufts University (1970–72) and Yale University (1972–78), he joined the faculty at UCSB in 1978.
References External links Arik Levinson publications indexed by Google Scholar Arik Levinson home page.
Another branch, represented by Robert Pindyck, holds that integrated assessment models cannot capture the complexity of the climate-economy nexus.
The book explains what we know and don't know about climate change, argues that despite our best intentions and efforts temperatures are likely to rise substantially over the coming decades, and shows how forms of adaptation can be used to reduce the impact of warming.
See also List of Yale University people List of American non-fiction environmental writers List of economic advisors to Donald Trump List of University of Cambridge people Predicting the timing of peak oil References External links Official website Appearances on C-SPAN Daniel Yergin at IMDb
External links Utah State University Archived 2021-09-18 at the Wayback Machine, Joseph Tainter official faculty page How Do You Know When Society Is About to Fall Apart?
Reception Included among Smil's admirers is Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, who has said: "I wait for new Smil books the way some people wait for the next Star Wars movie." "He's a slayer of bullshit," says David Keith, an energy and climate scientist at Harvard University.
Gomez-Echeverri (eds.) The Global Energy Assessment: Towards a Sustainable Future, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
His testimony included two appearances before the Energy and Commerce Committee, Subcommittee on Energy and Environment.
The investigation committee under Jaap Zwemmer concluded in March 2015 that Nijkamp had re-used earlier publications in new papers on a certain scale, without proper referencing and the committee qualified this as "questionable research practice".
He later went on to work with others on a specific element of this process: the diminishing marginal returns on innovation.
He lives in a house with unusually thick insulation, grows some of his own food, and eats meat roughly once a week.
Under his leadership, association agreements increased with major producers of energy, especially with countries outside the OECD in the Global South, such as India and China.
Olmstead (Island Press, 5 January 2016) References External links Nat Keohane, Center for Climate and Energy Solutions
Ein Reiseführer für überzeugte Daheimbleiber, Wien, Ueberreuter-Verlag 2003, ISBN 3-8000-3957-5 2011: But Will The Planet Notice?.
1MDB controversy In 2009 Morse provided a valuation for the Malaysian state fund 1MDB for petroleum exploration and production assets associated with PetroSaudi International Ltd.
His father Irving Yergin worked at Warner Brothers and was editor of The Hollywood Reporter and a former journalist in Chicago.
That model changed the status quo, allowing organizations to purchase solar energy services under long-term predictably priced contracts and avoid the significant capital costs of ownership and operation of solar energy systems.
doi:10.1086/704493 References External links In memorium article by Gernot Wagner and Robert Stavins Home page
The court ruling was credited with beginning the process of regulating the release of genetically engineered organisms into the environment in the United States and around the world.
Career 2012 to Present: Founder of Economic and Human Dimensions Research Associates, based in Tucson, Arizona, where he leads a team of consultants.
Fatih Birol (born 22 March 1958) is a Turkish economist and energy expert, who has served as the executive director of the Paris-based International Energy Agency (IEA) since 1 September 2015.
Corruption allegations Three days after becoming acting Mayor, Zucchet resigned from the City Council after he was convicted in U.S.
1983: Move from New York to Loudoun County The Washington Post wrote that LaRouche and his wife moved in August 1983 from New York to a 13-room Georgian mansion on a 250-acre section of the Woodburn Estate, near Leesburg, Loudoun County, Virginia.
The National Program was established to ensure continuity of the United States government in the event of a nuclear attack.
Dunn also serves on the faculty of the Institute for Energy Studies, on the Graduate Faculty Governance Council, and on the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Advocacy Council.
Weitzman also derived the Gittins index – a celebrated result in the applied probability literature – independently from (and in parallel to) John C.
Jaccard), 2011, "Policy, Financing and Implementation," In Edenhofer et al., IPCC Special Report on Renewable Energy Sources and Climate Change Mitigation Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
A "perspective paper" by Anil Markandya of the University of Bath on the Yohe/Tol study stated that "a short time period analysis is misleading" when all the costs are incurred during the period examined but benefits continue to accrue after its conclusion.
Representative Sid Morrison chose not to run for reelection representing Washington's 4th congressional district, instead mounting a campaign for governor.
Professional career Kerevan held academic posts at Napier College, including Senior Lecturer in Economics, from 1975 to 2000, specialising in energy economics.
Reporting on the growing controversy over automation and technology displacement in 2011, The Economist pointed out that Rifkin drew attention to the trend back in 1996 with the publication of his book, The End of Work.
He has served as Editor of the Energy, Environment and National Resources area of the Operations Research Journal.
Economics has been called a "canonical textbook", and the development of mainstream economic thought has been traced by comparing the nineteen editions over the 1948–2010 period.
He studied mathematics as an undergraduate at the University of California, Berkeley and received his Ph.D.
Williamson writing for The Regulatory Review, a publication of the Penn Program on Regulation, notes how "changes in the composition of goods manufactured in the U.S.
New York, Hill & Wang/Farrar Straus & Giroux, ISBN 0-8090-5207-5 2015: Climate Shock, joint with Martin Weitzman, Princeton University Press 2015, ISBN 978-0-691-15947-8 (Financial Times-McKinsey Top 15 Business Book of the Year 2015.
Jeff Currie is an economist and currently Chief Strategy Officer of Energy Pathways at The Carlyle Group.
Physicist Edward Teller, a proponent of SDI and X-ray lasers, told reporters in 1984 that he had been courted by LaRouche but had kept his distance.
He obtained his PhD from UC Berkeley in management science in 1976 and has been at Stanford since 1977.
Nordhaus' model is now widely spread and is used to simulate how the economy and the climate co-evolve." Many of the news outlets that reported on Nordhaus's prize noted that he was in the early wave of economists who embraced a carbon tax as a preferred method of carbon pricing.
After graduating from Collège de Lévis, where she performed on stage under the supervision of Denis Bernard and Robert Lepage, Brochu was admitted to the Conservatoire d'art dramatique de Québec.
Yergin has been a member of the Secretary of Energy Advisory Board under presidents Bill Clinton, George W.
IEA leadership While at the International Energy Agency, Birol has overseen several major changes in the approach of the organization.
The End of Energy Obesity: Breaking Today's Energy Addiction for a Prosperous and Secure Tomorrow (2009).
In 2013, Nordhaus chaired a committee of the National Research Council that produced a report discounting the impact of fossil fuel subsidies on greenhouse gas emissions.
From 1979 to 1981, Morse served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Energy Policy.
In Rifkin's 1989 revised edition of Entropy:..., entitled Entropy: Into the Greenhouse World, its "afterword" was written by Georgescu-Roegen.
Gorbachev also hated my guts and called for my assassination and imprisonment and so forth." He asserted that he had survived these threats, because he had been protected by unnamed U.S.
In 2014, Narayan received the Scopus Young Researcher award for the best three authors in Australia in the Social Science category under the age of forty.
After graduation he refused to join the Communist party, undermining his job prospects, though he found employment at a regional planning office.
He previously worked as a senior fellow at the organization from 1997 to 2006 and has served on its board of directors since 2011.
Measuring the Energy Reduction Impact of Selected Broadband-Enabled Activities within Households Archived 2016-03-22 at the Wayback Machine, by John A.
He was a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Energy and a member of the International Association for Energy Economics.
He was due to act as Review Editor for the chapter on Transport in Working Group III's contribution to the Fifth Assessment Report, released in April 2014.
He was assistant secretary general to the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries in Kuwait from 1976 to 1978.
In 2010 he became the editor-in-chief of the Elsevier journal Environmental Innovation and Societal Transitions.
The case for retaining Seafield: a special report on Seafield Colliery and the reasons why Seafield coal is vital to Scotland's energy future.
Think-tank (2002–2011) In November 2002, Milov founded and became the head of the research fund Institute for Strategic Development of the Fuel and Energy Complex (in 2003, it was renamed to Institute for Energy Policy).
Dubner, Tehran: Nashr-e Ney, 2007 Study Guide Accompanying Macroeconomics, with Abel, Bernanke, Smith, and Kneebone,6th Canadian edition, Pearson Canada, 2011.
Daniel Howard Yergin (born February 6, 1947) is an American author, economic historian, and consultant within the energy and economic sectors.
Publications His books include Social Change and Sustainable Transport (with William Black, 2002, Indiana University Press) Public Facilities Planning (with Lili Kiminami and Kenneth Button, 2007, Edward Elgar) Spatial Dynamics, Networks and Modelling (with Aura Reggiani, 2006, Edward Elgar).
The terrorist was Abu Nidal and the New York Times reported that Martin was handling the terrorist attack for the President.
Birol's approach to running the organization is both securing energy security while also facilitating the Energy transition.
He has also been a visiting professor at Tel-Aviv University, Harvard University, and Columbia University.
He is a Partner, managing director, and Chair of the Emerging Markets Practice and Chair of the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS) Practice at the Berkeley Research Group LLC and on the faculty of Johns Hopkins University.
2020s In September 2020, Yergin published The New Map: Energy, Climate, and the Clash of Nations,with a revised edition published the following year.
His other innovations include the Anglo-Dutch auction, and (with Aytek Erdil) Reference-Rule Pricing for package auctions.
His research showed that if the slope of marginal costs is steeper, price controls are more effective and if the relative slope of marginal damages is steeper, then quantity controls are more effective.
Nyboer, 2011, "Institutions and processes for scaling up renewables: Run-of-river hydropower in British Columbia," Energy Policy.
Tarcher, ISBN 1-58542-193-6 2004, The European Dream: How Europe's Vision of the Future is Quietly Eclipsing the American Dream, Jeremy P.
In November 2020, The Daily Telegraph referred to Currie as the "world's most followed energy guru" and reported on his convictions on a new commodity supercycle.
He was given the Dean's Excellence in Teaching Award for Graduate Education at Freeman School of Business in 2014.
Earlier in his career, he held senior leadership positions at UNESCO and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).
Study in Australia In 2001, he was awarded a Monash graduate school scholarship to study in Australia for three years.
In 2015, Narayan was awarded the Mahatma Gandhi Pravasi Samman Award for non-resident Indians who have made substantial contributions to the profession, including contributions to public policy.
In a new book chapter, Laitner provides a time series dataset that suggests the United States may be only 14 percent energy efficient, a level of inefficiency which could constrain the development of a more robust economy.
In 2017 he was appointed to serve as one of San Diego's three representatives on the San Diego Port Commission, which governs the Port of San Diego.
He graduated in Politics, Philosophy, and Economics from Lincoln College, Oxford and then studied economics at the London School of Economics.
Frank Donner and Randall Rothenberg wrote that he made successful overtures to the Liberty Lobby and George Wallace's American Independent Party, adding that the "racist" policies of LaRouche's U.S.
C2ES partners with business leaders — through their Business Environmental Leadership Council — to develop solutions that will accelerate a low-carbon transition, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and grow an equitable economy.
This necessary material equipment adds to the 'parasitical' operation of solar power, Georgescu-Roegen maintains.
The 3 results were then compared with 27 similar investigations, 3 each relating to 9 other 'challenges' in the areas of health and environment.
The book talks about the prominent role of business model innovation, more than new technology, in attracting mainstream capital and unlocking transformational change.
See also New Yorkers in journalism Environmental economics Climateflation Fossilflation References External links Professional homepage
Books Economics of Money and Banking, with Hamid Bahmanpoor, Tehran: Nashr-e Ney, 2010 Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything (tr.), Steven Levitt, Stephen J.
In December 2018, Inslee announced new legislation aimed at reducing the state's carbon emissions over approximately two decades.
ISBN 978-1845429553 Selected articles As of March 2015 the five most cited articles in Google Scholar by Van den Bergh were: van den Bergh, JCJM; Verbruggen, H (1999).
Energy Secretary Ernest Moniz led a major 229-page study, Advancing the Landscape of Clean Energy Innovation, which was conducted by IHS Markit and Energy Futures Initiative for the Breakthrough Energy coalition, led by Bill Gates.
Andrew Leach is a Canadian energy and environmental economist and a contributing writer to a number of Canadian news outlets including The Globe and Mail, and Maclean's.
Among other works, he is an editor of the book "Avoiding Dangerous Climate Change" and co-author (with Edwin Mansfield) of "Microeconomics| Microeconomics: Theory and Applications".
Peter Nijkamp (born 26 February 1946) is a Dutch economist, Professor of Regional Economics and Economic Geography at the Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam, the Netherlands, a fellow of the Tinbergen Institute and President of the Governing Board of the Netherlands Research Council (NWO).
Alternatively, it could lead to savings, which would provide additional funds for others to borrow and spend.
He has argued that two priorities, the environment and justice, while both worthy, "require different policy tools," and that there are pitfalls to trying to combine them in one effort or program.
He then completed the General Electric Company Financial Management Training Program and held multiple positions in engineering and finance at General Electric in North Carolina and Wisconsin.
In 1969, following the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia and Eva's graduation, the Smils emigrated to the United States, leaving the country months before a Soviet travel ban shut the borders.
Selected publications "Shifting Demand: From the Economic Imperative of Energy Efficiency to Business Models that Engage and Empower Consumers," by John A.
One of the most important, incorporating political and moral philosophy, is the use of discounting, with an early study by William Cline.
The World Nuclear Industry Status Report 2009 Commissioned by German Federal Ministry of Environment, Nature Conservation and Reactor Safety, August 2009.
Laitner leads a team of consultants, the Economic and Human Dimensions Research Associates based in Tucson, Arizona.
All of these technology assessments have to do with energy resources only, and not with material resources.
He took part in the development of Russian legislation on the electric power industry, regulation and taxation of the energy sector.
Ronald Bailey, the libertarian science correspondent for Reason, addresses his research on which is worse for poor Americans, energy efficiency standards, or energy taxes.
The European Commission presented a spectrum of proposals, projects, and initiatives under the rubric of "Leading The Third Industrial Revolution", signaling a fundamental transformation of the European economy and society.
A Thousand Barrels a Second: The Coming Oil Break Point and the Challenges Facing an Energy Dependent World (2006).
Tiedemann, 2008, "The neighbor effect: simulating dynamics in consumer preferences for new vehicle technologies," Ecological Economics.
Polenske, Roberto Guerrero Compeán, Ciro Biderman, "Regional, Economic, and Environmental Implications of Dual Ethanol Technologies in Brazil", 2009-07-13 Karen R.
During the 2017 legislative session, the Washington State Legislature failed to pass a state operating budget by the end of its regular session on April 25, so Inslee called for a 30-day special session.
Barring continual conquest of your neighbors, which is always subject to diminishing returns, innovation that increases productivity is – in the long run – the only way out of the dilemma of declining marginal returns on added investments in complexity.
Earlier in his career, his theoretical research on housing market dynamics and on the economics of depletable natural resources helped establish analytical frameworks that influenced subsequent scholarship.
(A copy of this may be found in the References section of the Economics of global warming entry.) Economic Models of Climate Change: A Critique.
In July 1997 he was appointed professor of Environmental Economics in the Faculty of Economics and Business Administration at VU and in 2002 he also became a professor in the Institute for Environmental Studies of VU.
Politics In January 2026, Brochu was named as a potential candidate in the 2026 Quebec Liberal Party leadership election.
'In the years ahead,' he wrote, 'more sophisticated software technologies are going to bring civilization ever closer to a near-workerless world.
In November 2017, during an interview with Bloomberg, Currie stated that Bitcoin should be considered a commodity that shares many similarities with gold.
economy, for which he derived trajectories for the money supply and government spending that were optimal in the sense of keeping unemployment and inflation close to target levels.
His papers (many of which are co-authored with Jeremy Bulow) apply ideas from auction theory to other economic contexts, including finance and political economy.
In effect, overpopulation on earth is largely a dynamic long run phenomenon, being a by-product of ever more constraining mineral scarcities.
Milov authored numerous analytical materials, concept papers and publications on energy policy and infrastructure development in Russia.
Business activities Martin co-founded an international energy consulting firm, Washington Policy & Analysis Inc.
Growing up in a remote mountain town in the Plzeň Region, Smil cut wood daily to keep the home heated.
They later published it in 2011 as an electioneering plank for the People's Freedom Party together with former Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov and Vladimir Ryzhkov, only to be met by accusations from Putin of "stealing from the state".
Weitzman joined the Yale University faculty, in 1967, before moving to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and then the economics department at Harvard University in 1989, where he taught until his death in 2019.
Diminishing returns Tainter begins by categorizing the often inconsistent explanations that have been offered for collapse in the literature.
Jeremy Rifkin is the executive co-producer and star of a feature-length documentary film produced by VICE Media entitled The Third Industrial Revolution: A Radical New Sharing Economy.
The Georgescu-Roegen Annual Awards In 2012, two awards in honour of Georgescu-Roegen's life and work were established by The Energy and Resources Institute in New Delhi, India: The Georgescu-Roegen Annual Awards.
Currie then correctly foresaw the biggest decline in the price of gold for three decades in April 2013, two days ahead of the crash.
Tol specialises in energy economics and environmental economics, with a particular interest in climate change, such as the economics of global warming.
He previously served as Director General and board member of the Kuwait Foundation for the Advancement of Sciences (2007–2021) and held the roles of Acting Secretary General and Director of Research at OPEC (2000–2006).
1993 to 1995: Senior Economist and Program Manager for Energy Efficiency and Economic Development, a program initiated by ACEEE.
Shihab-Eldin is currently an adjunct professor at the Executive Academy of the Vienna University of Economics and Business (WU), and continues to teach, deliver invited lectures, and publish research on energy policy, technology, and economics.
Again published by Carlyle, Currie argued that the shifting security landscape is driving economies to prioritise defense investment, and projected that incremental direct investment across Europe in defense and adjacent infrastructure could reach €9 trillion over the next decade.
Jeremy Rifkin joined Maros Sefcovic, vice president of the European Commission, and Markku Markkula, president of the European Committee of the Regions, in a presentation of the smart city and smart region agenda across the European Union.
He led EDF's research and policy advocacy on climate change in the United States and globally until 2021.
For example, in his view the "cash for clunkers" program—which offered rebates to people who bought a new car with better mileage than their old one—did little to save energy, although it may have reduced air pollution.
His research focuses on the development and application of energy-economy-emissions models that simulate the likely effects of sustainable energy policies.
Position on energy Smil is skeptical that there will be a rapid transition to clean energy, believing it will take much longer than many predict.
He is a senior member of the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) that was awarded a share of the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize with Al Gore.
From 2001 to 2006, he was Director of Research and Acting Secretary General at the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).
Shah led the office in administering loans to clean energy technologies significantly advancing the Biden Administration's efforts to bring clean energy into the United States.
Shihab-Eldin was Director General of the Kuwait Institute for Scientific Research (KISR) and served as a faculty member and Vice Rector for Academic Affairs at Kuwait University.
He added that the "industrial emissions associated with the production of electricity (126 Mt) and oil and gas (153 Mt)" produced for "domestic consumption, not exports." In the mass media Leach is a contributing writer for Maclean's and The Globe and Mail.
Laitner is the former Director of Economic and Social Analysis for the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy (ACEEE).
He also remarked that the two-degree target was set without reference to the costs of meeting the target.
Later, Georgescu-Roegen introduced the term 'bioeconomics' (short for 'biological economics') to describe his view that man's economic struggle is a continuation of the biological struggle.
In 1984 two Pentagon officials spoke at a LaRouche rally in Virginia; a Defense Department spokesman said the Pentagon viewed LaRouche's group as a "conservative group ...
He was a guest researcher at the World Bank, VVS Tekniska Foereningen, the OECD, and the Stockholm Environment Institute.
Social impact Brochu is actively involved with Centraide of Greater Montreal, and also chairs the board of directors of the Fondation Forces Avenir, a student support organization in the community.
Viewpoints and research Yergin's articles and op-eds on energy, history, and the economy have been published in a variety of publications, including The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, Foreign Affairs, The Washington Post, the Financial Times, and Forbes.
LaRouche wrote that, while in the conscientious objector camp, he discussed Marxism, and while traveling home on the SS General Bradley in 1946, he met Donald Merrill, a fellow soldier, also from Lynn, who converted him to Trotskyism.
He has received the Distinguished Service Award from the Federal Energy Administration (1975), the Adelman-Frankel Award from the United States Association for Energy Economics (2007), and the Outstanding Contribution Award from the International Association for Energy Economics (2008).
The production process and the flow-fund model Georgescu-Roegen's model of the economy grew out of his dissatisfaction with neoclassical production theory as well as the input-output model of the economy, developed by Nobel Prize laureate Wassily Leontief.
Weitzman was a leading economist whose research was focused largely on environmental economics, specifically climate change and the economics of catastrophes.
He has been an invited speaker in more than 300 conferences and workshops in the US, Canada, Europe, Asia and Africa, has lectured at many universities in North America, Europe and East Asia and has worked as a consultant for many US, European Union and international institutions.
1984: Schiller Institute, television spots, contact with Reagan administration Helga Zepp-LaRouche founded the Schiller Institute in Germany in 1984.
[...] But there is good reason to question the fairness of Rifkin's angriest assaults on scientists as mad magicians and unethical disciples of Dr.
In the mid-1970s, while a post-doctoral fellow, he began to take a particular interest in energy in his writing.
The Economist cited Leach's statistics in its January 1, 2011 article "Muck and brass: Canada's tar sands", which compared statements from a number of environmentalists, academics, and oil industry players, including the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers (CAPP).
Some climate scientists and commentators were disappointed with the Nobel Prize going to Nordhaus due to his embrace of substantially lower carbon taxes per ton than most scientists, along with his past history of arguing for low carbon taxes.
Tol regularly participates in studies of the Energy Modeling Forum, was an editor of Energy Economics, associate editor of Environmental and Resource Economics, and a member of the editorial board of Environmental Science and Policy, and Integrated Assessment.
References External links Official website George Kerevan Column The Scotsman Profile at Parliament of the United Kingdom Contributions in Parliament at Hansard Voting record at Public Whip Record in Parliament at TheyWorkForYou
He has published books and articles in the fields of global environmental protection and energy economics, the theory of the firm, and economic history.
Rifkin is the author of 23 books about the influence of scientific and technological changes on the economy, the workforce, society, and the environment.
At Western Washington University, he served as dean of the College of Business and Economics from 2013 to 2016 before gaining his professorship.
Pindyck's most recent research has been related to how government policy can address potential global catastrophic events, such as major pandemics, nuclear or bio-terrorism, or a climate catastrophe.
He has also been interviewed about energy policy and international politics on various television programs.
"Best bids guaranteed, Observing microeconomic theory can avoid collusion at government auctions" (PDF).
The degree to which the corrected, more pessimistic results alter the original conclusions and their policy implications was hotly debated.
While there he played "a leading role in helping to shape the group's advocacy on domestic and international climate policy." As an expert on environmental policy, Keohane testified before various committees of the United States House of Representatives.
The Institute has received support of the US National Security Archives and the historian's office of the Department of Energy.
Views According to a scientific paper of van den Bergh, degrowth is often seen as an ambiguous concept due to its various interpretations, which can lead to confusion rather than a clear and constructive debate on environmental policy.
Arturo Lorenzoni (born September 19, 1966) is an Italian academic, researcher, and politician, known for his significant contributions to energy economics, particularly in electricity markets and renewable energy.
Jeremy Rifkin (born January 26, 1945) is an American economic and social theorist, writer, public speaker, political advisor, and activist.
He is the past president of the Association of Environmental Studies and Sciences (AESS), an independent interdisciplinary professional association in higher education.
Keohane then became Director of Economic Policy and Analysis and then Chief Economist at Environmental Defense Fund.
In addition to his PhD students, he supervised the Master’s theses that were the first research of prominent economists including Professors Eric Budish, Jon Levin and Shengwu Li.
In return for dismissal of the charges, Weitzman agreed to pay the farmer $600 and to make an additional $300 charitable donation in lieu of performing community service.
It will not be necessary, or even possible, for materials recycling to form its own separate and continuous flow to be of use – only, the waste baskets in question have to be large enough to compensate for the rate and the efficiency of the recycling effort.
Inslee's major opponents in the election were State Senator Phil Fortunato, Republic, Washington police chief Loren Culp, Yakima physician Raul Garcia, activist Tim Eyman and former Bothell mayor Joshua Freed.
Career Broadman served as a consultant on energy security at the Rand Corporation in 1979 and from 1980 to 1981 he was a research fellow at the Brookings Institution.
Stobaugh he co-authored and co-edited Energy Future: The Report of the Energy Project at the Harvard Business School in 1979.
At his express request, his ashes were brought to Romania and deposited at Bellu Cemetery, in the sector reserved for academics.
He advised the US Federal Trade Commission 1999–2001, was a member of the UK Competition Commission from 2001–2005, and remains on its Panel of Economic Advisors.
Polenske, "KICKING AWAY INDUSTRIAL POLICY MYTHS— A Response to Ha-Joon Chang’s Plenary Paper", 2009-06-22 Karen R.
Department of State, where he was initially executive assistant to the Undersecretary for Economic Affairs.
Yergin's articles and op-eds on energy, history, and the economy have been published in publications such as The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, The Washington Post, and the Financial Times.
In 2003 he became CNBC's global energy expert, which he continued to do for a decade, and in September 2011 he appeared on The Colbert Report to discuss wind and solar power.
Vickers retained machine guns and other restricted weapons in his personal collection, knowing the filed forms were fraudulent, and transferred other machine guns and restricted weapons to other FFLs and third parties.
His work has received both support and criticism, particularly from some conservative evangelical communities who disagree with his interpretations.
Early life and education Tomines attended the University of Waterloo, where he received his undergraduate degree in Biomedical Science.
The Order of the Good Death is Doughty's way of creating a community while teaching individuals to accept death.
The product was ultimately never released, with security concerns noted in a Kickstarter post ending the project, with Xyla returning to finish her university degree and subsequently published a description for how to build a do it yourself Parihug.
The article revealed details of her personal life, which drew criticism from Wu and from others because according to her agreement with Vice, such details should have been left out of the article, out of fear of retaliation by the Chinese government and also to protect her own private life.
YouTube channel health related podcast In September 2022, Varshavski launched a health related podcast on his YouTube channel named "The Checkup Podcast with Doctor Mike", which was renamed to "The Checkup with Doctor Mike".
Science communication While searching for a better work-life balance than that provided in research and academia, Macdonald found opportunities to still teach through a combination of conducting introductory courses and speaking at science fiction conventions.
Awards and nominations Notes References External links Official website NileRed's channel on YouTube
Kurzgesagt acknowledged they had presented one argument as fact, and had not considered other theories on the matter.
His family life is closely connected to his career, and he occasionally brings his children aboard his boat to share the experience.
In 2016 the Czech edition of Forbes featured Rubeš in their 30 under 30 list: 30 of the most talented Czechs under 30 years old.
During his early days as a YouTuber, he often recorded videos while walking through neighborhoods, or hiking, discussing general topics with a scientific and educational perspective.
Career One of the first sightings of the Mediterranean red bug in North America was recorded by Peltz, who was then working as a middle school science teacher.
Learning Processing : A Beginner's Guide to Programming Images, Animation, and Interaction (2nd ed.).
As detailed in his plea agreement, from June 2018 to March 2021 Vickers, allegedly with cooperation from Sean Reidpath Sullivan and Matthew Jeremy Hall imported machine guns and other restricted firearms under ATF Form 6 by falsely representing them as items for police department demonstration use.
The podcast covers subjects related to sexual health, mental health, physical health, and social health.
In January 2015, she defended her thesis in Earth sciences, entitled "Prediction of terrestrial convective structures", before training in scientific communication at the Institut de la communication et des médias [Fr] in Grenoble.
He has expressed a desire to pass on his knowledge and tradition to his children, while leaving the choice of pursuing lobstering to them.
They made their relationship public online in 2014, two years after starting their channel, in response to derogatory comments and in order to be visible role models for young gay people interested in science.
In 2014, he won the prize of "Person of the Year" in the 7th edition of Maroc Web Awards, Creativity category.
Vsauce3 has collaborated with YouTubers Joe Hanson from It's Okay to be Smart and Vanessa Hill from BrainCraft.
Huang is known for his "Song Challenge" series, an extension of the idea behind Songs to Wear Pants To, in which Huang takes on musical challenges submitted by viewers via social media.
Huang's channel is known for a wide variety of musical genres, influences, and projects, often thematically focused.
It is very, very hard, as any teacher will tell you, to unlearn something that makes you comfortable and makes you feel smart, but Mr.
Educational career Until 2021, Beat was a high school social studies teacher, teaching at Blue Valley High School in Overland Park, Kansas and eventually Tonganoxie High School in Tonganoxie, Kansas.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, he started "Week Week" in the Kirkland House with his friends, promoting creative methods to bring residents together.
Scott has also collaborated with other YouTubers, including his Tom Scott plus channel, several comedy series with The Technical Difficulties, and the brain-teaser podcast Lateral.
In 2025 she founded Physical Phones to manufacture and sell retro-style Bluetooth desk phones modeled on her own setup.
The most viewed video of the channel as of September 2024 is Do You Hear "Yanny" or "Laurel"?, which has 66 million views.
The episodes are released on Nebula one week earlier than YouTube, which has caused large spikes to Nebula's usage traffic in the past.
Products in the line include acne cleanser and lotion, clarifying treatment with retinol, and daily moisturizer.
On his self-titled YouTube channel, active since 2014, Scott creates educational videos across a range of topics including history, geography, linguistics, science, and technology.
His older brother, Marek Hoffman, is also a youtuber, operating the channel AdBuster, where he posts videos about brand management, product reviews, and vlogs.
She also started a joint podcast with YouTube medical popularizer Sandra Ortonobes (La Hiperactina), titled Tú de ciencias y yo de letras.
He later worked for four years at Apple as a product designer in their Special Projects Group, where he authored patents involving virtual reality in self-driving cars.
Foreman's family is Jewish, and in a statement written for the London Jewish News in 2018, he described his fondness for his family's Jewish traditions, even though Foreman himself is an atheist.
Early life Mason received a BSc (2:1) (1993) and PhD (1997) in chemistry from the University of Birmingham.
To think it does lends itself to a hyper-adaptive view of life." References External links Reich, Henry.
Vickers has an affinity for Rhodesia, and in 2017 posted a photo of a Rhodesian FAL with the caption "It's time to slot floppies.
Various media outlets have highlighted her significant following on YouTube, Instagram, and TikTok, where she has received attention for her posts aiming to educate young people about sexual health.
In mid 2024, the Awesome Coffee Club rebranded to "Keats and Co." as they began selling tea as well as coffee with a similar philosophy.
I am so proud and pleased that The Brain Scoop and Emily have found what is absolutely their best possible home." Another educational channel, Mental Floss, based on the magazine of the same name, was launched in February 2013.
In an interview with The New York Times, he said that each video takes him four to five hours to make, writing a full script and searching Google Scholar for academic papers to include as screenshots.
Vizel struggled from a young age to fit in in the community, noting in 2022 that "the female space was very suffocating" to her.
The show's format has since been modified into short documentaries exclusive to the streaming service Nebula with the same concept.
Following his studies Bonnet worked as an executive in the field of research and development at the company Sika-Trocal.
Stevens realized that his most popular content tended to incorporate more serious real-world concepts, often exhibiting interdisciplinarity.
On 23 October 2015, Furze released a video showing off the start of a new multi-part build, in which he would construct a Hidden Blade to promote the new Ubisoft game, Assassin's Creed: Syndicate.
Daniel Shiffman (born July 29, 1973) is a computer programmer, a member of the Board of Directors of the Processing Foundation, and an Associate Arts Professor at the Interactive Telecommunications Program (ITP) at New York University Tisch School of the Arts.
On the topic, Hank has stated, "There are problems with the institutions of dreams, [but] I am in favor of them.
The educational segments became more popular, and since September 9, 2012, only the educational segment (known as DOT.) has been presented.
She was awarded an Aurora Astronomy Scholarship that enabled her to take an overseas trip to NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Caltech, Carnegie Observatory, UCLA, Macdonald Observatory Texas, University of British Columbia, NRC Observatory Victoria and CHFT Hawaii.
Foxlin was awarded the Aviation Inspiration Award from the Living Legends of Aviation in January 2026.
Petermann, "Anwenderseminar Dynamisch-Mechanische Analyse und Rheologie", ecomed Verlag, Landsberg 2000, 69–78, Hg.: H.
Every episode contains one or more experiments, in which either volunteers or Stevens himself participates, that relates to the topic of the episode.
Some of her projects are useful, while others are funny or absurd; her useful projects are usually more popular.
The paper described the podcast as having "in-depth debates and banter that is actually amusing." Grey reported a podcast listenership of approximately "a quarter million" downloads per episode as of September 2015.
Despite being raised in a Christian home, he was not openly Christian until some time before he began his musical career.
In 2021, Aleksic created an online petition to change the flag of Albany, saying that the flag was poorly designed by vexillology standards and was also linked to the Dutch Nazi Party and other white supremacist organizations.
Jet Lag: The Game Denby's YouTube channel Jet Lag: The Game hosts a travel competition show created by Denby and Half as Interesting's writers, Ben Doyle (son of writer Larry Doyle) and Adam Chase.
Reeder first gained considerable media attention in 2016, after posting a video of himself drinking water containing a small, diluted amount of cyanide.
Kampf's television career began with co-hosting the competition series Schrott or Not on KiKa in 2017, and she has hosted a segment on Die Sendung mit der Maus called Lauras Machgeschichten since 2018.
The Polish Investment and Trade Agency exhibited her works in Berlin, Hamburg, Helsinki, Geneva, and Madrid to promote Polish design.
In 2021 he was nominated for the Estonian Science Communication Award as the best communicator of science and technology.
Typical topics include technology etiquette; movie and TV show reviews; plane accidents; vexillology; futurology; and the differences between Grey's and Haran's personalities and lifestyles.
Her tours focus on "the Hasidic lifestyle and the reasons behind the community’s insular nature", and she purposefully tries to avoid critique or judgment of Hasidic culture.
He won the Wiki Science Competition 2017 in the category of non-photographic media with a video of a frozen drop of water in a frigid environment.
In January 2014, Amy Wallace, another science journalist, wrote an article about how science journalists can find themselves the target of ugly personal attacks, and the attacks on female journalists include criticisms of their sexual attractiveness, and their sexual morality.
She was originally photographed "in a pressed collared shirt, slacks and matching jewelry", but felt she was misrepresenting herself; Doe returned to the shoot hours later, stripped to her underwear, and slathered herself in homemade mud to retake the photos.
The contestants are led to believe that they are competing in a social deduction game, in which one of the group has become a secret saboteur among them (much like The Mole or The Traitors), with the rest of them working collaboratively in challenges they are tasked to complete during their trip.
The live performances returned in March 2020 with a planned three-city tour including stops in Columbus, Ohio, and Carmel, Indiana, with a third performance set for Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Education Baxter completed bachelor's and master's degrees in biology at Buffalo State College in 2014 and 2016, respectively.
Foreman has no plans to bring the series back, stating that "with everything that’s going on, I now find it impossible, irresponsible even, to maintain the cheery, neutral tone that the series used to have." Map Men Map Men is an edutainment mini-series which premiered in 2016.
sanctions against JSC Kalashnikov Concern between July 2014 and March 2021, in the Southern District of Florida.
In 2017, he appeared on MythBusters: The Search as a contestant and in 2020, Pan built a gun that shoots masks onto people's faces to protect them from COVID-19.
Later, on October 29, 2021, Rober and Donaldson created #TeamSeas, another fundraiser which had a goal of $30 million.
He has discussed the physical demands and risks of lobstering, including the dangers of being caught in ropes and the challenges posed by Maine’s limited-entry licensing system.
Notable collaborations Santoro has been a special guest narrator on CinemaSins' Everything Wrong With...
In 2019, she teamed up with Sébastien Carassou for the international science film festival, and their script on paleoclimatology won the Science & Live TV – Science "shorts" prize.
In 2023, Hendy appeared on season 5 of the travel competition show Jet Lag: The Game, which was filmed in New Zealand.
"Populism, Technology and Interactivity: Review." New York Times, Lateition (East Coast) ed.: NJ.13.
He now helps students communicate mathematics to other people, speaks at schools, does media work, and occasionally writes about maths.
He received letters of encouragement from President Joe Biden and NASA administrator and former Florida Senator Bill Nelson.
He competed on the same team as Sam Denby against Adam Chase and Ben Doyle in racing to claim the most countries in the Schengen Area within six days.
In another video, Foxlin went on a cross country road trip through the southern and western United States, collecting a piece of wood from trees grown in each of the states, which she machined into wooden puzzle pieces of a map of the country.
After leaving Kiryas Joel, Vizel joined another Orthodox community, but has since left Orthodox Judaism altogether.
Several videos on the channel feature Savage donning cosplay that conceals his identity and walking across comic convention floors.
Stevens' online content attracted the interest of Ben Relles, who invited him to become a member of the online comedy group then known as Barely Political.
Turntable Health In 2012, Tony Hsieh invited Damania to visit Las Vegas, where Hsieh was in the process of investing $350 million of his own money in a project he hoped would revitalize Downtown Las Vegas (The Downtown Project).
Some of their videos are also available in French, Hindi, Arabic, Brazilian Portuguese, Japanese and Korean.
Similar experiments however, such as him drinking heavy water, "hydric acid" (tongue-in-cheek), and breathing in all the noble gases, remain available as of January 2021.
Following her graduation from UCLA, she received Suborbital Citizen Scientist Astronaut Training with Project PoSSUM.
On September 20, 2018, Roper announced he would host the YouTube Original special Could You Survive the Movies.
Career In early 2012, Varshavski joined Instagram to document his life as a medical student and combat the notion that "you can't have a life in medical school".
Business ventures Education In 2019, Huang partnered with Studio (formerly Monthly) to create a 30-day music production course called Complete Music Production.
A new branding scheme designed by Natasha Jen was adopted in December 2014 to bring a "grown-up" feel to the channels.
In April 2021, Rober and Jimmy Kimmel hosted a live stream, raising $3 million in support of NEXT for AUTISM.
Popular culture The Comedy Central game show @midnight mentioned her growing Instagram popularity during an opening segment.
He designed and delivered hardware on several JPL missions, including AMT, GRAIL, SMAP, and Mars Science Laboratory.
In 2009, the record label caught the attention of YouTube, who praised the label on its official blog.
His channel initially released video game-related content until the popularity of his educational series DOT saw discussions of general interest become the focus of Vsauce, encompassing explanations of science, philosophy, culture, and illusion.
The goal was to raise $20,000,000 for the Arbor Day Foundation by 2020, while the Arbor Day Foundation would plant one tree for each dollar raised.
It has been awarded grants by Bill Gates' bgC3, and has struck a partnership with PBS Digital Studios to continue developing more series, although the majority of its funding comes from viewer support via Patreon.
Early career In 2012, Scott was a presenter in the Sky 1 series Gadget Geeks alongside Colin Furze and Creative Technologist Charles Yarnold, where he was responsible for the creation of software solutions.
Following ten years of Cortex, CGP Grey announced a break from Cortex, with the podcast temporarily switching to an interview format.
In December 2023, Wu was named as the new maintainer of The Essential Guide to Electronics in Shenzhen, a print book that provides guidance for electronics industry business in Shenzhen and especially Huaqiangbei.
Vizel has offered tours of Williamsburg professionally since 2013, and began giving tours full time in 2017.
A fifth-generation lobsterman, he documents his work and sustainable fishing practices through videos shared on platforms like TikTok, Instagram, and YouTube, where he has amassed a following.
Nidhal Guessoum (Arabic: نضال قسوم, romanised: Niḍāl Qassūm; born September 6, 1960) is an Algerian astrophysicist.
Myers' blog were "among the two most popular secularist hubs online." Mason has used his online persona to critically examine a range of topics, including proposals to build roads surfaced with glass solar panels.
Vickers faces a maximum sentence of five years in federal prison for conspiracy to violate federal law regulating automatic firearms and a maximum of 20 years in federal prison for conspiracy to violate the International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
The costumes were widely featured on news channels such as CBS News, CNN, The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, Fox, Yahoo!
This was the fifth crewed flight operated by Blue Origin, and their 21st flight overall to reach space.
He also participated in Birthright Israel, a free ten-day trip to Israel for Jewish adults between the ages of 18 and 26.
In September 2015, Scott created a full-size emoji keyboard out of fourteen standard keyboards to type every standard Unicode emoji.
Larry Vickers is the author of the "Vickers Guide", a series of reference books that launched in 2015, detailing firearms such as the Colt AR-15, M1911, and MP 40.
Mason is a British chemist and YouTuber with the online pseudonym Thunderf00t (also VoiceOfThunder).
The modifications were performed by her, Kampf, mechanic Marcos Ramirez, and YouTuber Rich Benoit, whose channel Rich Rebuilds often featured the modification of Teslas; several other friends were informally involved.
The agents, equipped with geiger counters, did not find anything of concern, and Reeder himself said that they were only trying to help him not get in trouble in the future.
Early life and career William Henry Green II was born on May 5, 1980, to Mike and Sydney Green in Birmingham, Alabama, but his family soon moved to Orlando, Florida, where he was raised.
In 2017, Echazarreta was a research assistant at UCLA for the Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science, where she experimented with various materials to serve as both the PCB and body of the robot while maintaining electrically isolated portions.
The semimagic square Parker created uses some numbers more than once, and the diagonal 232 + 372 + 472 sums to 4107, not 3051 as for all the other rows, columns, or diagonal.
Collaborations Some people or channels Michael Stevens of Vsauce1 has collaborated with include Bill Nye, BrainCraft, Derek Muller, Good Mythical Morning, The Filthy Frank Show, and others.
Her dissertation was titled "Culturally responsive Science Communication: The messengers, messages, and voices in communicating science through Hip-Hop".
Parker has also toured the UK solo and as part of comedy group Festival of the Spoken Nerd, along with Helen Arney and Steve Mould.
In 2021, Muller hosted Pindrop, a YouTube Original series exploring unusual places around the world, as seen from Google Earth.
Usui gained attention in February 2023 for her detailed explanation of the aborted first launch attempt of the first H3 test rocket, and in March 2023 for her call to support JAXA after the failed second launch attempt.
Channel BrainCraft videos are about science, with many episodes discussing phenomena related to sleep, memory, and the science of food.
In December of that year, she created a Patreon account to receive money directly from viewers while announcing a deal with GoldieBlox to release child-appropriate edits of her videos.
The channels feature videos on scientific, psychological, mathematical, and philosophical topics, as well as gaming, technology, popular culture, and other general interest subjects.
He also held visiting professorships at the German-Jordanian University in Jordan and the Beijing University of Chemical Technology in China.
The film was scheduled to be released on May 8, 2020, after having been initially scheduled in November 2019, but was later postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic in India.
The game is often themed, and consists of five rounds of two statements each, relating to the theme, with one statement being true, and the other being false.
Crawford is a public educator on his YouTube channel where he lectures on Old Norse language and discusses literature and mythology.
The production company behind these is Pemberley Digital, which according to Hank Green's Reddit userpage, he helped co-create.
On April 8, 2024, Denby's production company, Wendover Productions, announced production on The Getaway, a reality game show which premiered exclusively on Nebula in July 2024.
In a Q&A video, he clarified that the last place he lived in before moving to the United States was the city of Donetsk in Ukraine.
Echazarreta transferred to UCLA in 2016, completing her Bachelor's degree in electrical engineering in 2019.
On International Women's Day 2017 she was listed as one of the 43 most influential women in 3D printing, a male-dominated field, by 3D Printer & 3D Printing News.
They upload videos twice a week, having “normal” episodes about a certain topic, and “field notes” episodes in which they answer viewers' questions and share things they own or have found.
Nonetheless, Green's novels have been successful, leading him to be included on Time's 2014 "100 Most Influential People" list.
Beat posts various videos on the channel relating to United States government and history - especially regarding United States presidents.
At Christmas time in 2021, along with Joe Barnard, she launched a seven foot tall Christmas tree 300 feet into the air, with a "rocket stuffed up its ...
Since 2012 Bonnet is a visiting professor at the institute for Biomechanics and Orthopaedics at German Sports University Cologne.
Prehistoric Road Trip In May 2019, Graslie announced that she would be producing and hosting a 3-hour series, on paleontology in the American Midwest, for PBS and WTTW; filming took place throughout 2019.
While at Tonganoxie High School, Beat and his students petitioned United States President Barack Obama to visit the school in 2015, but the effort was unsuccessful.
He is managing director of the Institute for Applied Materials at the Cologne University of Applied Sciences where he also teaches materials science.
in Classics and Classical Languages, Literatures, and Linguistics from Texas Tech University; an M.A.
While at university, Parker wrote comedy for Pelican, the students' magazine, and produced comedy sketches.
Foxlin's appeal to the FAA was successful in 2025 and she was issued a special medical certificate, and she subsequently flew across the continential United States in her Cessna 140.
Club and Newsweek reported on a video of him dissolving a hot dog in piranha solution, which went viral.
Awards 2022 Woman of Distinction Award from the American Association of University Women Ebony Magazine Power 100 Trailblazer in STEM 2022 Named to Forbes Magazine's 30 Under 30 in Science 2020 Named to Fortune Magazine's 40 Under 40 in Health 2018 Arthur A.
Pac Tom project In 2006, Murphy started a project of running every mile of every street in the city of Pittsburgh: over 1,500 miles in total.
He is also the co-founder of merchandise company DFTBA Records, crowdfunding platform Subbable (acquired by Patreon), game company DFTBA Games, and online video production company Pemberley Digital, which produces video blog adaptations of classic novels in the public domain.
In October 2020, Peltz joined Discovery Education as Mystery Science became a wholly owned subsidiary; Mystery Science was acquired for $140 million.
Cath in College was a vlog and blog that presented her Stanford experience in a diary-like style, showing scenes such as studying, parties and dorm life alongside reader Q&As.
His 2014 "Evolution vs Natural Selection" video on the MinutePhysics channel received criticism from the NCSE.
“It was definitely an obstacle for me to learn about a brand new culture and to learn a brand new language.
"Wipe It Down," Baxter's parody of Lil Boosie's "Wipe Me Down," contained information and safety tips related to the COVID-19 pandemic.
She transitioned to a full-time engineer at NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory as part of the Europa Clipper Ground Support Equipment group.
In April 2022, The Anthropocene Reviewed was chosen to be the 2022 common read at the University of Mississippi.
Echazarreta has spoken to Mexico's congresses Senate of the Republic and Chamber of Deputies in support of increasing STEM education for women and expanding Mexico's spaceflight program.
As revealed in a behind-the-scenes video, Moffit voices and composes the background music for the videos, while Brown is the primary illustrator.
market and fill the gap left by the sanctions against Kalashnikov Concern" named "American Kalashnikov." Vickers had met with Kalashnikov Concern executives in North Carolina and started to receive consulting fees from American Kalashnikov starting from 2014.
Early life Vizel's paternal grandfather became Satmar following the Holocaust, and her father grew up in Williamsburg, Brooklyn.
He was also nominated to awards Tech Awards 2017, Popularyzator Nauki 2018, and Grand Video Awards 2022.
Early life and education Graslie earned her bachelor's degree in Studio Art from the University of Montana in 2011.
Peter Hadfield (born 1 July 1954) is a British freelance journalist, author, and geologist, who runs the YouTube channel Potholer54, which has over 200,000 subscribers.
In 2017, Muller began uploading videos on his newest channel, Sciencium, which is dedicated to videos on recent and historical discoveries in science.
His Instagram account went viral after he was featured in BuzzFeed and People magazine named him The Sexiest Doctor Alive in 2015.
Muller presented in the film Vitamania: The Sense and Nonsense of Vitamins, a documentary by Genepool Productions, released in August 2018.
He also funded 100 abortions for Ukrainian women in Poland, who were raped by Russian soldiers, citing and criticising laws which make it difficult for them to get treatment.
Her November 27, 2013, video, which addressed the situation of women in STEM fields and inappropriate comments she received on her own postings, received a high level of media attention.
Beauty and the Bolt With a classmate, she launched a 501-c(3) non-profit called Beauty and the Bolt to empower women and minorities to excel in engineering.
He later earned a Master of Science in mechanical engineering from the University of Southern California (USC) in 2014.
In November 2023, Green joined a lawsuit by Penguin Random House, the Iowa State Education Association, and fellow authors Laurie Halse Anderson, Malinda Lo, and Jodi Picoult, against the state of Iowa over a new law that banned books that depict sex acts from schools.
in curriculum, instruction, and the science of learning from the University at Buffalo, and was awarded the SUNY Chancellor's Award for Student Excellence.
AsapScience, stylized as AsapSCIENCE, is a YouTube channel created by Canadian YouTubers Mitchell Moffit and Gregory Brown.
He went to college in upstate New York, earning two degrees: one in physics and another in sociology.
Keller stated that these efforts were intended to pressure Mason to change what she considered sexist and islamophobic content on his channel.
She received a Bachelors of Science in Psychology from Texas A&M University before pursuing postgraduate medical studies at the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, where she received her Doctorate of Medicine.
Kurzgesagt made this statement in response to a December 2022 video which accused them of having been "basically bought off by billionaires".
In 2014, her channel "The Brain Scoop" was listed on New Media Rockstars Top 100 Channels, ranked at #96.
In December 2018, Rober posted a video showing how he tricked parcel thieves with an engineered contraption that sprayed glitter on the thieves, emitted a foul odor, and captured video of the thieves.
He completed all coursework towards a Master of Music at Indiana University Bloomington, but did not graduate.
The official response stated it would be too costly to replace the current signs; however, Parker said he only asked for a "precedent for the new signs".
Shiffman received a BA in Mathematics and Philosophy from Yale University and a master's degree from the ITP.
Parker has made videos about unboxing calculators, including the Little Professor; he presents these videos as a member of a fictional "Calculator Appreciation Society".
Adam Viktor Aleksic ( ə-LEK-sik; born January 3, 2001), known online as Etymology Nerd, is an American linguist and content creator who produces videos exploring the origins of words.
Hill's videos use stop motion and paper craft animation to explain neuroscience, psychology and human behavior.
Career Prior to working on YouTube, Roper used his film degree for various jobs in television and advertising.
In 2011 Mould and Parker together started MathsGear.co.uk, a website aimed at selling stuff they prepare for their mathematics shows.
Ragusea announced that he would drop from his usual 2 videos a week along with the podcast to only 1 video a week plus the podcast on December 19, 2022, in a video titled "The next phase of our relationship".
The channel was created in May 2012 and had acquired more than 7 million subscribers by March 2018, and 10 million by 2025.
Together with his brother, Marek Hoffmann, he also hosts YouTube channel Tube Raiders, where they publish travel and urban exploration vlogs, which in January 2026, had 345,000 subscribers.
BrainCraft is an educational video series on YouTube created by Australian science communicator Vanessa Hill.
He has four degrees, in law, economics, business, and sociology, including from the University of Southampton, London School of Economics, and Warwick Business School.
Stevens, in the video "A Defense of Comic Sans", notes that the text font Alsina was used by the Vsauce channels because of its close resemblance to the handwriting of Nik Guinta, the creator of the original Vsauce logo.
Since then, videos on topics such as the greenhouse effect, the age of the universe, and several on black holes have been released.
Creationism Through his YouTube account Thunderf00t, Mason produced a series of videos titled "Why do people laugh at creationists?", focusing primarily on Kent Hovind's arguments in public seminars.
Pan originally received media attention in late 2015 after uploading a viral video of him creating a real-life version of the superhero Thor's hammer Mjolnir, which only he can pick up.
'The Number of Galaxies in a Grain of Sand'), and in hobby, for the Tube Raiders video Umocnienia helskie (lit.
On December 15, 2024, a reporter for the Kyiv Independent criticized a video by Harris that attributed the Russo-Ukrainian war largely to NATO expansion.
Politics Unboringed Politics Unboringed was a series of educational YouTube videos that ran between 2015 and 2017.
His book The Wanderer's Hávamál (2019) includes the Old Norse text of the poem Hávamál with Crawford's page-facing English translation along with commentary, a few brief Old Norse texts about Odin, and the Cowboy Hávamál, which is Crawford's translation of Gestaþáttr into his grandfather's dialect.
The Rest Is Science The Rest Is Science is a podcast hosted by Michael Stevens and Professor Hannah Fry, and is about varied topics in math and science.
He collaborated with the highest-subscribed channel MrBeast in 2026, creating a video on the history of YouTube and joking about name similarities.
While at GPB, he served as the organization's Macon Bureau Chief and host of the local Morning Edition.
At the 2012 Science Online conference, the video "Mission Possible: Graphene" won the Cyberscreen Science Film Festival, and was therefore featured on Scientific American as the video of the week.
Before working with Michael Stevens under the Vsauce brand, Roper was working at Google, alongside Stevens, as well as hosting a YouTube show called Space Lab, which was a space show for kids.
Guessoum is also a columnist for Gulf News and The Huffington Post, and has made notable contributions to Nature Middle East.
She was given the British Council ELTon Award for Innovation in English language teaching in 2017 and the Entrepreneurial Award by the University of Westminster in 2018.
She began to question other aspects of community life and custom following continued pressure from the community.
Honest Guide Since 2016, he has published his most popular series Honest Guide with his cameraman friend Honza Mikulka on YouTube.
Career In 2014, Mould co-hosted ITV's I Never Knew That About Britain alongside Paul Martin and Suzannah Lipscomb.
The channel was renamed to D!NG on May 12, 2019, seemingly due to the channel being demonetized for having a name that was not considered advertiser-friendly.
Alkali metals research Mason, on his own and with some fellow technical workers, did original physical chemistry research into the nature of the alkali metals (sodium and potassium, for example) and their chemistry with oxygen and water.
She worked on a sixteen-episode show, Schrott or Not ("Trash or Not"), which she cohosted with Johannes Büchs.
He and one of his university colleagues looked through a book containing chemical names and started with "N" because his name began with the same letter.
MinutePhysics was one of the original founders of the Standard creator community along with Dave Wiskus, CGP Grey, Philipp Dettmer and many other creators.
The event was organized as part of the Andromeda Initiative, in cooperation between the European Space Agency and Electronic Arts, to promote the release of action role-playing video game Mass Effect: Andromeda.
Muller moved to Australia to study film-making; however, he instead enrolled for a PhD in physics education research from the University of Sydney, which he completed in 2008 with the thesis, Designing Effective Multimedia for Physics Education.
Green served on the advisory board alongside Burnie Burns, Akilah Hughes, Casey Neistat, and Louise Pentland.
He is a fifth-generation lobsterman, part of a family tradition extending back several generations in Winter Harbor and neighboring harbors.
As part of the deal, the Green brothers received a small portion of Patreon and Hank signed on as an unpaid advisor.
Current work Daniel Shiffman is currently focused on developing tutorials, examples, and libraries for Processing, the open source programming environment created by Casey Reas and Ben Fry.
Within its first year of operation, the channel was followed by 100,000 viewers and she decided to focus on turning it into a full-time job and business.
Grey's video Humans Need Not Apply was covered by Business Insider and Huffington Post, and his animated video of Nick Bostrom's "The Fable of the Dragon-Tyrant" was "unanimously praised" by the Life Extension Advocacy Foundation.
Shift toward larger projects (2018–2021) Increase in production value and astronaut training series As her popularity increased, Giertz received sponsorships from large companies such as Ericsson, Google, and Audible.
As of February 12, 2026, the channel has over 993 thousand subscribers, 107 videos, and more than 132 million total video views.
Macdonald did post-doctoral work with the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory (LIGO) collaboration as part of an attempt to detect gravitational waves from the Crab Pulsar.
When he was in middle school, Vickers decided that he wanted to join the United States Army Special Forces, and gained an interest in firearms during this period.
As of February 12, 2026, Denby has accumulated more than 1.7 billion views and over 8.8 million subscribers across all of his YouTube channels.
His role focuses on Google's YouTube platform, including meeting with fellow content creators to optimize their videos' effectiveness.
The week prior to the 2022 Project for Awesome, Partners In Health co-founder Paul Farmer unexpectedly died at the age of 62.
During this period, John "found politics boring and divisive", believing that politics and voting were a waste of his time.
After making a video explaining the new YouTube Red service to confused YouTube creators, he realized an organization representing them would better serve their needs.
Adam Ragusea ( rə-GOO-see-ə; born March 22, 1982) is an American YouTuber and educator who creates videos about food recipes, food science, and culinary culture.
She is married to Lucie Gabriela Career Cornwell began her eponymous YouTube channel in 2013, where she originally documented her time studying law at the University of Bristol.
Recent research directed by Dodds has been commented on in The New York Times, Smithsonian Magazine, and other media.
In ten years the channel evolved from a passion project worked on during Dettmer's free time to a design studio with about seventy on the team.
After leaving Vox, Harris produced several video essays for the Opinion section of The New York Times.
Since September 2011, he is part of the educational project Academia Vasquez, responsible for video production of algebra and representative of Colombia said educational project.
Experiments Having joined YouTube in 2011, Reeder initially began posting videos of his experiments to show to his grandmother: "I would do science experiments all the time anyway ...
As of October 2025, he has 481,000 subscribers on his personal YouTube channel and 325,000 subscribers on his interview channel Event Horizon.
Because of her ease in front of the camera, enthusiasm, and fan comments, Graslie was asked to create her own YouTube channel, "The Brain Scoop", as a part of the Nerdfighter family.
Also in 2020, Baxter was recognized as an emerging leader in the field of healthcare, when USA Fortune Magazine named her to their "40 Under 40 in Health".
Jean has been educating for over 40 years and has created many resources for teachers in the classroom with their students.
He became interested in engineering at a young age, making a pair of goggles that helped avoid eye irritation while cutting onions.
Carroll in a five-part video series on time and entropy and with Grant Sanderson on a video about a lost lecture of physicist Richard Feynman, as well as a video about Bell's Theorem.
Taras Vladimirovich Kulakov (born March 11, 1987), better known as CrazyRussianHacker, is a Ukrainian-born Russian-American YouTuber of mixed Russian and Ukrainian descent.
He also created miniseries such as videos dedicated to debunking modern flat Earth beliefs, and a documentary series dedicated to the Titan submersible, and its implosion in 2023, during an expedition to view the wreck of the Titanic.
presidency, with songs about all of the former presidents and a series chronicling every presidential election in American history.
After a brief interregnum, the channel relaunched in March 2017 with Hank Green hosting alongside Rachel Calderon Navarro.
Ernst was struck by the enthusiastic response from young women and girls who approached her, expressing a desire to learn to code specifically to create similar projects.
Social media In 2009, Jones began posting on social media about medical topics as a medical student with two goals: provide the public with accurate medical information and provide a "traveling CV" of her work.
He has also spoken at events for Adweek, VidCon, MIPTV Media Market, the Edinburgh International Television Festival, and for Novo Nordisk as a diabetes educator.
Boxing career Varshavski made his amateur boxing debut in May 2022 against influencer iDubbbz as the headline fight in the Creator Clash boxing event.
At the time, Sullivan was the owner of Trident Rifles in Gambrills, Maryland and an intelligence analyst for the Department of Homeland Security, while Hall was chief of police in Coats, North Carolina.
On May 21, 2020, the show was nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award in the category "Outstanding Educational or Informational Series", which it won.
Event Horizon publishes interviews with some of the most well-known scientists in the world, including Nobel-winning physicist Frank Wilczek, NASA Chief Scientist James Green and the Harvard Professor Avi Loeb.
Amy Scribner of BookPage described it as "a fun, illuminating read," but also noted that some parts were "a bummer" because they looked at radicalization and harmful ideas online.
Green himself also saw a significant increase in his fame, with the Indianapolis Business Journal noting that he had much more "visibility and presence in his fans' lives" than other contemporaneous authors with equal or greater book sales.
More recently, he has contributed regularly to the CBC, NPR, and BBC radio programmes Costing The Earth, Science in Action, The World Tonight, Outlook and East Asia Today, as well as the ABC's Science Show.
She cleaned new specimens, gave tours, trained new interns, and acted as a teaching assistant for a class at the University of Montana.
The British newspaper The Independent named him and Honza Mikulka "the patron saints of Prague tourism".
At the end of 2017, the CNRS launched the popular science YouTube channel Zeste de science, hosted by Léa Bello, where, in "an offbeat tone, she presents ongoing research or a recent discovery".
The group has made seven albums, Ten Hours, Gourmet Ravioli, Gotta Record Everything Good, Chaos, Across the Road, Round 6, and One Week, all written and recorded in a day each.
The channel also explains the economic disadvantages of US one-cent coins in a video titled Death to Pennies.
In 2017, Hendy started a PhD at ANU focusing on using nanoindentation to examine the mechanical response of plant cells to applied pressure.
Beginning with the annual Project for Awesome fundraiser in 2013, Partners In Health received $50,000 as one of the community-chosen charities.
But you know, he sends me his records and all that stuff." Discography Albums Source: Additional credits Kiss – Carnival of Souls: The Final Sessions References External links Ken Tamplin discography at Discogs Ken Tamplin at AllMusic Ken Tamplin at IMDb Profile at No Life Til Metal
Career After Santoro graduated from Brock University with a Master of Accountancy in 2010, he became an accountant.
It shared how the human body responds to COVID-19 and how effective the measures are in evading SARS-CoV-2.
Career He has been professor in colleges and universities, such as "Colegio Hebreo Jorge Isaacs" the "Corporación Universitaria Minuto de Dios" and the Faculty of Medicine Universidad San Martín in Cali.
He says there is a great interest in Old Norse material, but much of what can be found on the Internet is unreliable, and he wants to provide accessible information that is separate from both popular culture and mystical practices.
For example, in episode one, Stevens locks himself in an empty room for three days in order to investigate the effects of social isolation on the brain.
He tearfully talked about an unnamed romantic partner, whom he claimed was manipulative and forced him to turn his friends and family away in favour of her and she had also psychologically and physically abused him during their relationship.
In January 2015, he started the channel Astrofaza (from Latin astrum 'star', and Polish faza 'craving'), in which he began posting popular science educational videos about astronomy and space exploration, as well, as streaming video games, such as Kerbal Space Program.
CGP Grey is an Irish–American educational YouTuber, podcaster, and live streamer based in the United Kingdom who creates explanatory videos on subjects including politics, geography, economics, sociology, history, philosophy, and culture.
Early and personal life Kulakov was born in the Soviet Union on March 11, 1987, into a mixed Russian and Ukrainian family.
In a tweet published on August 15, 2021, Santoro announced that he was leaving YouTube after 10 years of uploading, in favor of streaming on Twitch.
In 2013, Stevens stated that he researches on Wikipedia and academic papers to find information for his videos.
Vsauce () is a YouTube brand created by American educator Michael Stevens consisting of the eponymous channel plus five other spin-offs.
At the time, he worked as a marketer and photographer in Gdańsk, later ending his employment and moving back to Płock, to focus on developing the channel.
The same year, ahead of her fortieth birthday, she posted a video in which she built a mobile sandwich toaster.
He's currently working towards an Instrument Rating and also owns an Aerospool WT9 Dynamic light sport aircraft which appears in a number of videos.
He uses earnings from these partnerships to support his family and crew, which includes a videographer added in 2023.
Hill, manager Max Simmons, illustrator Luka Sarlija, editor Moffit and Brown are an openly gay couple who met while studying biology at the University of Guelph.
In the past she was also a television presenter, among others, hosting shows such as Na gapę for Canal+, Przytul mnie for Polsat, Pytanie na śniadanie for Polish Television, and Good Morning TVN for TVN.
Criticism Swinga has been criticized for what was described as a "demagogic" and "superficial" tackling of some topics.
In late 2016, she and German YouTuber Laura Kampf published a video in which they built "The Pussy Grabs Back Machine"—a reference to a comment by then-presidential candidate Donald Trump—that used a rubber hand to hit the groin of a person who grabbed the groin of the wearer.
In 2016, the Art Libraries Society of North America criticised the studio's occasional lack of credible sources and professional consultation, and use of emotive language.
Mind Field and Brain Candy Live (2016–present) In 2016, former MythBusters co-host Adam Savage stated that he would join Stevens on a stage tour in 2017.
His most popular series, titled Career Ladder, focuses on him attempting to guess careers of people met on the street under two minutes, while standing with them on a ladder.
The channel has been featured by The Times, ITV News, BBC News, Business Insider, and Tages-Anzeiger Panorama.
Mould's motive for starting the website was the constant inquiry from people to buy the stuff used in their shows.
He has collaborated in several researches related to big data problems in areas as language, stories, sociotechnical systems, complex systems, Earth science, biology, and ecology.
Tamplin signed a solo recording contract with Frontline Records, releasing the album An Axe To Grind in 1990.
References This article draws heavily on the corresponding article in the Spanish-language Wikipedia, which was accessed in the version of 3/2014.
He has described his YouTube videos as, "dubious quality, questionable integrity and unethical delivery".
The first season ran in early 2017, the second season from late 2017 to early 2018, and the third from late 2018 to early 2019.
Santoro retired with the title of #1 "most loved" Periscoper in the world with over 177 million hearts on the live streaming app Periscope on November 11, 2015.
Following her tweet floating an idea for a Dirty Jobs spin-off called "Nerdy Jobs", Baxter was contacted by fellow science communicator and Crash Course host Hank Green with an offer to fund a pilot.
In mid-2023, Green was a leading figure in a successful campaign to persuade pharmaceutical company Johnson & Johnson (J&J) to allow generic versions of the tuberculosis drug bedaquiline to be produced, allowing increased global access to the drug.
On November 25, 2015, Roper announced on his side channel that he had a rare form of cancer called a sarcoma.
In 2017, he published 37-minute-long educational film about the black holes, titled Black Holes: Masters of Time and Space, which was awarded with a Grand Video Award in the popular science category.
After her residency finished, she went to San Diego to further her experience with laser, dermatological and cosmetic surgery.
She presented the educational YouTube channel called "The Brain Scoop" until 2021 and also hosted portions of the Big History series featured on the Crash Course YouTube channel.
In March 2023, Osman announced Open Sauce, a creator and maker convention inspired by Maker Faire and VidCon.
In April 2025, Ernst was a keynote speaker for the Women In Tech Sweden conference, where she emphasized the shared themes between textiles and computing.
She then started her own channel and began releasing a series titled "Art Lab", focusing on the intersection between science and art.
The following month, Kampf appeared with American maker Adam Savage on his Tested.com series One Day Builds, creating a tape dispenser that holds multiple rolls.
He often collaborates musically with Southern California DJ and producer samix, who produced the album Midriff Music by Josh Martinez which won the category "Best Rap Recording" award at the 2005 Western Canadian Music Awards.
This early experience was primarily educational but also introduced him to the business aspects of lobstering.
Kenneth Robert Tamplin, known professionally as Ken Tamplin, is an American vocal coach and former Christian rock musician.
Foxlin's 3D printed statue was also displayed at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., in March, 2022 within the full #IfThenSheCan – The Exhibit, featuring 120 3D printed statues displayed in celebration of Women's History Month.
In 2019 and 2020, the web magazine Hackaday reported on Braun extracting bismuth from pepto bismol, making aerogel, and making superconductors.
Andrew Lewis Huang (born April 8, 1984) is a Canadian musician, YouTube personality, and video producer.
Though she originally planned to study biology at Bristol University, Bowler attended Minerva University.
Shiffman runs a popular YouTube channel, The Coding Train, with instructional videos on how to program in Processing and p5.js, an open-source JavaScript library with a similar API to that of Processing.
Throughout high school and college, Green created and designed websites for himself and local clients.
The stolen trailer was found on July 30, and its contents were returned to Santoro on July 31, although some items were still missing, and several were damaged.
They have also filmed in multiple cities in the Czech Republic (such as Český Krumlov, Pardubice, and Brno) and abroad (New York City, Kraków, Innsbruck, Kyiv, and Tampere).
Christina Ernst is an American engineer and social media content creator known for her work in "fashioneering," a portmanteau for the integration of fashion and engineering.
She went on to work at AMRI Global in drug discovery following her Master's program and recounted her experiences working as a Black woman in science research in a Mother Jones article.
The winning bidders received a custom song in any genre, written and recorded to their specifications.
References External links The stuffed animal that’ll hug your kids from afar Parihug Building a giant wooden rocket in 5 days YouTube video TEDx talk by Xyla Foxlin Launching her crown into outer space YouTube video If/Then Digital Exhibit Companion (ifthenexhibit.org)
As of November 2025, with over 24 million subscribers and more than 310 videos (including shorts), the studio's original English language channel was the world's 265th most subscribed channel.
Allotaxonometry and rank-turbulence divergence: A universal instrument for comparing complex systems.
Career Journalism Ragusea began as a reporter in public media for the Indiana University-owned WFIU, before moving to WBUR-FM in Boston, and then Georgia Public Broadcasting (GPB).
He has worked as a mechanic, and studied geology at Westminster College and Utah State University, but was later academically suspended due to a low GPA.
He initially only posted the video on Facebook, but, after it received gained views, he also uploaded it to YouTube.
The origins of many recently adapted genes have now been traced to this period, creating effects such as regional differences in skin colour and skeletal gracility.
He argues that the event was an exceedingly improbable one and questions the likelihood of it having happened elsewhere in the Universe.
The book was described as having significant, "broad" coverage, but not as much "depth", making it a potential resource for students and researchers looking to find more-detailed references.
Only A Theory: Evolution and the Battle for America's Soul is a 2008 book by the American cell biologist and Roman Catholic Kenneth R.
Despite this, the review recognised the book's call for altruistic education and reform as sincere, though doubted its practical impact.
"You did it yourself in nine months" discusses developmental biology, especially the work of Lewis Wolpert.
Oppenheimer writes that there was only one migration out of Africa that contributed to the peopling of the rest of the world.
rex and the Crater of Doom is a nonfiction book by UC Berkeley professor Walter Alvarez that was published by Princeton University Press in 1997.
Originally, the pamphlet was prepared as a lecture delivered by Pannekoek within the circles of the social-democratic parties of the Netherlands and Germany.
The book received positive blurbs from linguists Noam Chomsky and Norbert Hornstein, professor of evolutionary genetics Gabriel Dover, and professor of cell biology and anatomy Stuart Newman.
Around 1959 or 1960, as more and larger invertebrate groups were being addressed, the incompleteness of the then-current state of affairs became apparent.
In December 2004 the National Academy of Sciences held a colloquium in honour of Mayr's 100th birthday at the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Center of the National Academies of Science and Engineering in Irvine, California.
For decades the most enlightened writers in the fields of science and religion had accepted that much of the Old Testament, and Genesis in particular, had to be read in a metaphorical sense...
Much of the book is devoted to his research team's efforts at the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology towards mapping the Neanderthal genome as part of the Neanderthal genome project.
Systematics and the Origin of Species from the Viewpoint of a Zoologist contains a reassessment of previous evidence regarding the mechanisms of biological evolution.
“Over evolutionary time, predators get better at catching prey, which prompts prey animals to get better at evading capture.” He examines cruelty in nature, such as Ichneumonidae, wasps that lay their larva in live caterpillars, which they consume from the inside out.
The devastation precipitates a war with Earth's colonies on the outer planets, with whom a struggle for control of the solar system existed.
Work on the book proved difficult at times, according to illustrator Borin Van Loon, as the schedule of the author Jonathan Miller was, "always taken up with lighting Rigoletto at the Royal Opera House or making a television series on the human body.
Fisher, and Julian Huxley, all touching on the biological basis of human society, followed by Konrad Lorenz, Desmond Morris and Robert Ardrey in the 1960s, and Richard Dawkins and David Barash in the 1970s.
This would be an ESS if any one cowardly frog that does not fight to the death always fares worse (in terms of evolutionary survival fitness).
A glass of water at 20 degrees Celsius will have the same amount of energy as a glass divided in half with the top fluid at 30 degrees and the bottom at 10, but only in the second glass will the top half have the capacity to do work upon the bottom.
Now, Treatise Online publishes sections of upcoming Treatise volumes as individual articles when they are ready, rather than waiting for an entire volume to be completed.
Further, he charged that prevailing theories did not mesh with Native American oral traditions, which he contended contain no accounts of inter-continental migration.
It went through three editions (1933, 1945, 1966) and for many years constituted a very authoritative work and the definitive coverage of the subject.
He touches upon his personal life, reflecting on his father, the chemist Sune Bergström, with whom he had a relatively distant relationship, and on his own marriage and son.
In addition, the boundary prevents the first reaction from completely consuming all of the available substrate in the environment.
He introduces sexual selection, “selective breeding by females of males.” This leads to natural selection, in which “nature is the selecting agent.” "Silence and slow time" examines the age of the Earth and geologic time.
See also Charles Darwin Evolutionary psychology Sociobiology The Territorial Imperative, 1966 book by Robert Ardrey The Moral Animal, 1994 book by Robert Wright Notes and references Notes References External links The Naked Ape 1973 at IMDb , and review
It has been cited over 200 times and has a major influence on extended evolutionary synthesis research.
His book was written whilst he was Secretary to the Zoological Society of London, and made use of his remarkable collection of reprints covering the first part of the century.
Two court cases in the 1980s related to evolution vs creationism codified scientific principle into law.
Yule stating that "Oceans of Kansas offers a well researched and often engaging account of the paleobiology of the Western Interior Seaway...".
The British paleontologist Darren Naish praised the artwork, particularly that the book included depictions of several dinosaurs only rarely (and in some cases never) illustrated prior, though he also found the illustrations to be "shrink-wrapped" (reconstructed with too little soft tissue).
Wonderful Life: The Burgess Shale and the Nature of History is a 1989 book on the evolution of Cambrian fauna by Harvard paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould.
Wesson argues that reductionism is inadequate and looks for chaos theory as an example of a different approach that is needed to explain evolution.
Levitin identifies six fundamental song functions or types (friendship, joy, comfort, religion, knowledge, and love) then shows how each in its own way has enabled the social bonding necessary for human culture and society to evolve.
The bottom line seemed to be - was there a meaning or intention behind how life changed?' Selected works Darwin: A Companion.
The hole itself is not a physical thing, but rather a source of constraint that helps to restrict the conformational possibilities of the wheel's components, such that, on a global scale, the property of rolling emerges.
Meaning and Purpose, written by Kenneth Walker, was first published in September 1944 by Jonathan Cape, London, and republished by Pelican Books in 1950.
Illustrated by Karen Lewis, the book explains Charles Darwin's theory of common descent with a target audience of 3–5-year-olds.
The collection of essays, written between 1973–1977, became a best-seller and propelled Gould to national prominence.
When selective constraint is reached at a locus negative selection becomes so small that it is effectively neutral.
Background Edward Payson Evans (1831–1917) was an American scholar with interests in literature, languages, and moral philosophy.
Allen Orr wrote in The New York Review of Books that "Wade's survey of human population genomics is lively and generally serviceable.
The mites believe Darwin to be a god, one of their creation myths handed down from generation to generation, and he has to set them straight about that and other mite fables.
Wilkes also praised the "striking" illustrations by Philip Hood, particularly that of the "vacuumorph", though noted that some of his artwork was somewhat anatomically questionable and that some aspects of the book's science and technology "raised questions too involved to introduce here".
Wrangham argues that humans have domesticated themselves by a process of self-selection similar to the selective breeding of foxes described by Dmitry Belyayev, a theory first proposed by Johann Friedrich Blumenbach in the early 1800s.
Darwinian Fairytales is a 1995 book by the philosopher David Stove, in which the author criticizes application of the theory of evolution as an explanation for sociobiological behavior such as altruism.
The major transitions generally involve the formation of new levels of units of selection, consisting of ensembles of pre-existing entities.
The Phenomenon of Man (French: Le phénomène humain) is an essay by the French geologist, paleontologist, philosopher, and Jesuit priest Pierre Teilhard de Chardin.
This chapter and its addendum contained most of the controversial material, and is still important today.
The cumulative process is directed by non-random survival." Dawkins illustrates the difference between the potential for the development of complexity as a result of pure randomness, as opposed to that of randomness coupled with cumulative selection.
Paulin stated that "Darwin's conception of the cruelty of nature to her sentient offspring is wholly mistaken." He argued that the struggle for existence emphasized by Darwin was immoral.
The Future is Wild, a 2002 miniseries, features future animals evolving over the course of several million years.
Another example is that the 2025 The New Dinosaurs has tyrannosaurs go completely extinct in the mid-Cenozoic, and presents the scavenging "gourmand" in South America as an abelisaur rather than a tyrannosaur.
Will leave you awestruck." The Times wrote "Levitin is such an enthusiastic anthropologist, such an exuberant song and dance man, such a natural-born associative thinker, that you gotta love the guy." It was named one of the best books of 2008 by the Boston Herald and by Seed Magazine.
The second is a convection system, where the low density fluid on the bottom mixes with the high density fluid on the top until the density becomes evenly distributed.
"One anticipates that Benton's Vertebrate Palaeontology will become the 'industry standard', and as such it should occupy space on the shelves of all involved in undergraduate teaching".
Rubin, Carl-Johan; Zody, MC; Eriksson, J; Meadows, JR; Sherwood, E; Webster, MT; Jiang, L; Ingman, M; et al.
Shapiro, among others, to have been poorly edited and contain errors such as misspellings of relevant names.
See also On the Origin of Species References External links Official website (in French) Darwin and the science of evolution at the Internet Archive Charles Darwin : the scholar who changed human history at the Internet Archive Darwin et la science de l'évolution at IMDb
In 2008, a group of scientists led by Anthony Herrel found that the lizards had evolved stronger jaws to adapt to a vegetarian diet, and have started to evolve a cecum.
Some of the issues discussed in the book are sexuality, telepathic communication between people, physical prowess or frailty, division of humans by caste or ability, and the preservation of ancient wisdom, among other things.
It should be pronounced to rhyme with ‘cream’.” Reception The Selfish Gene was extremely popular when published and it remains widely read.
Fisher's work also contributed to the development of many genetical studies, as his influence was great among scientists, making him a key figure in modern evolutionary biology.
Figure 8 of Osborn's paper, redrawn from the fossil, shows what was later proven to be an oviraptorid wishbone between the animal's arms, interpreted by Osborn as the interclavicle ("Ic." in Figure 8).
It posits that the Harappans were a mixture of Zagros agriculturists (from the modern-day Iran area) and First Indians, a wave of migrants who came from Africa into Arabia and then reached India around 65,000 years ago.
Summary The book is an expansion of the Jacob Bronowski Memorial Lecture in Natural Philosophy which Sagan gave at the University of Toronto.
Miller says that "Zimmer’s book is to be recommended for the broad scope that it gives to the influence of evolutionary ideas in modern biology.
He describes frozen plasticity as being more general, and maintains that it better explains the origin of adaptive traits in genetically heterogeneous populations of sexual reproducing organisms.
Chapters It contains the following chapters: Introduction Variation within a Species The Genetical Analysis of Interspecific Differences Natural Selection What is Fitness?
A co-production between La Sept-Arte and Trans Europe Film, with the collaboration of Éditions Gallimard and CNRS Images Média, the film was directed by Valérie Winckler, with voice-over narration by the French actor Claude Aufaure and the director.
Elaborating on the nature of selection, he writes that it only works on the basis of whether alleles are better or worse than others in the population, in terms of their immediate fitness effects.
Reception Criticism of the book has come from the biologist Michael Ghiselin: "Much of what he says is completely wrong.
First published in 1992 as The Creationists: The Evolution of Scientific Creationism, a revised and expanded edition was published under the current title in 2006.
Who Asked the First Question?: The Origins of Human Choral Singing, Intelligence, Language and Speech.
Sources Some sources for the book include The Song of the Dodo by David Quammen, The Ghost With Trembling Wings by Scott Weidensaul, and reports from Edward O.
He also suggests that the necessity for genetic compatibility between mitochondrial and nuclear DNA lies behind the differentiation of sex, ensuring that only one sexual partner contributes mitochondrial DNA to offspring.
Bennett (1983) reviewed the book in the European Journal of Operational Research as did Mart Gross (1984) in The Quarterly Review of Biology.
We often hear that when the Origin of Species was published there was a great outcry and an historic clash of science and religion.
Depending on how much CO2 is emitted, the Earth could very well be heading towards Eocene-temperature levels far faster than any underlying long term paleontology-cycle would suggest.
Here the Hawk-Dove model is introduced its assumptions reviewed and then an extended model, playing the field, is outlined.
Hand waving about the creative power of the organism makes a nice-sounding philosophical position but a poor scientific theory".
Boltzmann entropy Shannon's information based conception of entropy should be distinguished from the more classic thermodynamic conception of entropy developed by Ludwig Boltzmann and others at the end of the nineteenth century.
According to Ford, Fisher's work was occasionally misinterpreted by his peers, but his depth and range of thought won him lasting respect.
Johnson has since added an epilogue to the book titled "The Book and Its Critics", in the latest edition of Darwin On Trial.
An article by Fern Elsdon-Baker in New Scientist of 19 July 2009 entitled the "Dawkins Dogma" contains parts of the arguments put forward within the book.
Critical reception Tom Allen, in The Journal of the Civil War Era, wrote that Lincoln and Darwin "is not always completely convincing" with regard to the "shared vision" Lander identifies, but concluded that the book "is well worth reading.
The Folly of Fools: The Logic of Deceit and Self-Deception in Human Life (2011, Basic Books, ISBN 0465027555) by Robert Trivers is a book that examines the evolutionary explanations for deceit and self-deception.
The group of biologists writing on a single unified (if somewhat broad) theme contrasts with Williams' earlier seminal 1966 book Adaptation and Natural Selection, whose arguments Williams suspected to be his alone.
The book received generally positive reviews upon release and garnered the nickname "The Dinosaur Bible".
Buss attributes this to instinctual adaptations which he argues are universal across cultures and rooted in ancestral selection pressures.
In 1971, a population of Podarcis sicula from the island of Pod Kopiste was transported to the island of Pod Mrcaru.
The novel appears in the computer game Deus Ex as a reference when a corporation in the game allegedly tries to develop the Second Men in the series, but also in a much broader aspect as the game deals with genetic engineering, the next phase of evolution and human augmentations.
The authors focus on physical factors (structuralism) other than changes in an organism's genome that may have caused multicellular life to form new structures.
"dinosauroids") in The New Dinosaurs due to intelligence not having "[proven] itself as a feature that has any evolutionary advantage at all".
Imagining what they were like is hard—with our limited lifespan, deep time eludes us by its very nature.
The Journal of Mental Science found his mixture of science and theology untenable but praised Clair for his sincerity in accepting the evidence for evolution.
The Growth of Biological Thought: Diversity, Evolution, and Inheritance is a book written by Ernst Mayr, first published in 1982 by Belknap Press and is as much a book of philosophy and history as it is of biology.
It requires only that individuals of a species vary genetically in their ability to survive and reproduce in their environment.
The project began with work on a few, mostly slim volumes in which a single senior specialist in a distinct field of invertebrate paleozoology would summarize one particular group.
OneZoom, an interactive fractal explorer of the tree of life, used to make the visualizations in The Ancestor's Tale.
One of the principal themes of the book is the continual evolution of humans, especially since their migration out of Africa around 50,000 years ago.
Donald Symons also finds it inappropriate to use anthropomorphism in conveying scientific meaning in general, and particularly in this instance.
Darwin emphasises the social value of expression, especially the emotional communication between mother and child.
They present evidence that most dominant human civilizations have always been likewise behaviorally patriarchal, and that male humans share male chimpanzees' innate propensity for dominance, gratuitous violence, war, rape, and murder.
He concentrated on mathematics while attending Cambridge, but eventually discovered that biology and statistics sparked his interest.
The book's title refers to the argument made by the authors that evolution by natural selection, rather than only acting on DNA sequence variation, acts on four different systems or "dimensions": genetic, epigenetic, behavioral, and symbolic.
Contents The books argues that different species of living things are exactly the same today as they were hundreds of millions of years ago, that having been created by God, life forms on Earth have never undergone even the slightest change/evolution.
The Atlas of Creation (or, in Turkish, Yaratılış Atlası) is a series of creationist books written by Adnan Oktar under the pen name Harun Yahya.
A biographical sketch of Darwin follows, covering his youth, his naturalistic studies on the voyage of the Beagle and subsequent life, focusing on his scientific researches and writings.
Similarly, Amerindians, Aboriginals, and Polynesians, for example, had experienced very little infectious disease.
Edited and with appendix and notes by his granddaughter Nora Barlow, London: Collins, retrieved November 5, 2019 Darwin, Charles (2006), "Journal", in van Wyhe, John (ed.), [Darwin's personal 'Journal' (1809-1881)], Darwin Online, CUL-DAR158.1-76, retrieved 2008-12-20 External links Barlow, Nora ed.
This they argue demonstrates the substantial influence that he has had on the field (Traulsen and Glynatsi, 2023, page 2.
Part biography, part history of science and social documentary, this book takes readers on Darwin's journey of discovery.
Darwin wrote the text, which he entitled Recollections of the Development of my Mind and Character, for his family.
The work was quickly translated into several languages: German (1909), Estonian, English (1912), Ukrainian (1920), and Chinese (1922).
It is considered to have bound together a wide array of ideas in a way that advanced the understanding of professionals in several fields.
Freeman: Bibliography with links to text and images of all editions of The Variation of Animals and Plants under Domestication, including translations into French, German, Italian, and Polish.
Evans critiques the traditional anthropocentric worldview that places humans inherently above all other forms of life, arguing that this perspective is both scientifically outdated and morally inadequate.
Wagner and Chi-hua Chiu Epigenesis and Evolution of Brains: From Embryonic Divisions to Functional Systems, Georg F.
Dennett acknowledges this and admits he is offering a philosophical idea rather than a scientific formulation.
During the course of his research Ottaviani found the then-unpublished autobiography of Charles Knight.
Overview The book includes additional reading aids: An illustration of the evolutionary tree of life.
The book, which is written in the style of Alfred Sherwood Romer's Vertebrate Paleontology, presented more recent overall coverage of the subject.
Whitcomb, Jr.'s publication of The Genesis Flood (1961) and the forming of the Creation Research Society, which created the creation science movement.
Chapters eight and nine cover agency, while chapters ten and eleven cover efficacy, and twelve covers scope.
Whitcomb had earlier studied geology and paleontology at Princeton University, but by the 1950s, he was teaching the Bible at Grace Theological Seminary.
After the Postscript are 11 Appendices dealing with some more technical background and illustrative material.
ergaster, Homo erectus and Homo heidelbergensis, migrated out of Africa and to Asia (around 1 to 1.66 million years ago) and Europe (around 500,000 years ago), respectively.
The entry of each dinosaur species includes information on its size, age, distribution and anatomical characteristics.
It contains a selection of 87 letters from the correspondence of Charles Darwin, an autobiographical chapter written by Charles Darwin for his family, and an essay by Thomas Huxley "On the reception of the 'Origin of Species'".
While the dinosaur-bird connection (or lack thereof) was being pursued in paleontology, the problem of the evolution of flight was under scrutiny as well.
Gould describes the recapitulationists in the 19th century, from the German Lorenz Oken and Johann Friedrich Meckel to the French Étienne Serres.
In fact, few of us go back to the original, instead taking for granted what other people say he said.
Research For the Darwin bicentenary year of 2009, van Wyhe published four books on Darwin: Darwin's Shorter Publications; Darwin's Notebooks from the Voyage of the Beagle; Darwin in Cambridge; and an accessible biography: Darwin.
There is an internet version of the test called the Moral Sense Test which is aimed at a worldwide public.
Starting from the premise that society can, on a simplistic level, be represented as a variant of the prisoner's dilemma, Ridley examines how it has been possible for a society to arise in which people choose to cooperate with others, rather than "defect" and act purely in their own self-interest.
The Globe and Mail said of the book, "Here's an elegantly illustrated directory of ancient animals, from a tiny marine creature of Canada called a pkaia through a dim-witted, 21-metre dinosaur named after the Alamo, to mankind's departed brethren, the Cro-Magnon." == References ==
He accepted a Senior Research Fellowship at the National University of Singapore in 2002 where he both founded the Darwin Online project and edited the Science section of the Victorian Web.
Citing recent DNA evidence, the book traces the subsequent large migrations of anatomically modern humans into India—of agriculturalists from Iran between 7000 and 3000 BCE and Indo-European-speaking pastoralists from the Central Asian Steppe (Aryans) between 2000 and 1000 BCE, among others.
It does not goes much in-depth about the evolution of melanism in other species as the title might suggest.
Haldane and Sewall Wright expanded on Fisher's framework to describe gene frequencies, genetic drift and mutation.
It is considered one of three scholarly biographies of Darwin, along with Charles Darwin: The Man and His Influence (1996) by Peter J.
The Theory of Evolution is a book by English evolutionary biologist and geneticist John Maynard Smith, originally published in 1958 in time for 150th anniversary of the birth of Charles Darwin and the centenary of the publication of The Origin of Species the following year.
He presents here several figures and illustrations of the cleavage of the blastoderm in reptiles and birds.
In 2006, an independent film was made, based loosely on the book, written and directed by Daniel Mellitz, starring Josh Wise, Chelse Swain, Sean Shanks, Amanda MacDonald, Tony LaThanh, Corbin Bernsen.
She also describes specific species extinguished by humans, as well as the ecologies surrounding prehistoric and near-present extinction events.
Ridley examines the history of different attempts to explain the fact that humans in society do not defect, looking at various computer generated models that have been used to explain how such behaviour could arise.
This edition was published in London by Collins under the title of The Autobiography of Charles Darwin 1809-1882.
Description Through a series of short fictional stories and discussion following them, Baker proposes evolutionary functions for sexual habits, mostly on the principle of competition between sperm of different men for a prized egg.
Thus, "The Galápagos Finch's Tale" is about natural selection, "The Peacock's Tale" is about sexual selection, "The Salamander's Tale" is about speciation, and "The Barnacle's Tale" is about how appearances can be deceiving.
Scott further states that Johnson lacks familiarity with the specifics and nuances of the field necessary to match the critiques of Darwinism offered by evolutionary biologists, and instead parrots the criticisms made by suspect sources (scientific creationists).
There is also criticism about the emphasis on cladistic relationships described, while sections are organized following Linnaean taxonomy that can conflict or misrepresent cladistic groups.
Resonance example: A good example of morphodynamic work is the induced resonance that can be observed by singing or playing a flute next to a string instrument like a harp or guitar.
Proactive aggression, by contrast, is so highly developed in humans that we must put elaborate security measures in place to prevent others from carrying out plans to bring the plane down.
Johnson said in an interview in California Monthly that he fully expected to be labeled a "kook" by the academy, but he was "pleasantly surprised" by its reception at Berkeley.
Eugenie Scott has pointed out that the book repeats many arguments by creationists that were previously discredited.
The book provides an overview of the historical and philosophical debates that have continued throughout the history of evolutionary theory, and carry on to this day in debates surrounding the merits of gene-centric selection and group selection models.
A companion book, Walking with Cavemen: Stand Eye-to-Eye with your Ancestors, was also released in 2003 and received positive reviews.
A hostile review in 1949, mentioned that the book referred unfavourably to Karl Marx as never to be regarded as having been a profound thinker and concluded that it was "by a superficial man serving reactionary purposes".
For example, a typewritten page can bear as many different messages as there are different combinations of characters that can be arranged on the page.
Alan Kazlev wrote, "This is a very good non-technical introduction to prehistoric vertebrates" and "it is the sheer number and diversity of creatures covered here, that makes this book so interesting".
Then he questions if humanity would survive or extinguish itself by climate change, nuclear war, disease, or the posing threat of nanotechnology as terrorist weapons.
Awards New York Times 10 Best Books of the Year: Winner, 2017 Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction: Finalist, 2018 == References ==
See also The Rational Optimist: How Prosperity Evolves References External links Matt Ridley on Sex and Evolution at PBS
Pannekoek, who was also a prominent astronomer, sought to apply the Marxist approach to the analysis of the natural sciences.
Contents After opening with the declaration that "the Bible is the infallible Word of God", Whitcomb's section provides biblical arguments for a universal flood as well as attempting to refute non-geological difficulties with the biblical account.
Reception Contemporaneous Reviewing the book for American Scientist in 1943, the geologist Kirtley Mather wrote that the book provided "an admirable digest" of decades of work by many scientists.
The Eve in the title refers to Mitochondrial Eve, a name used for the most recent common ancestor of all humans in the matrilineal (mother to daughter) line of descent.
References External links Science, Evolution, and Creationism full text online from the National Academies Press
It topped The Sunday Times' Bestseller list, with more than twice the sales of its nearest competitor.
Laden concludes that "A Troublesome Inheritance is itself troubling, not for its politics but for its science.
Description of the book The book explores the multiple factors that may have been responsible for the origination of biological form in multicellular life.
The book contains a very useful summary of Majerus' work on melanism in ladybirds and a review of the peppered moth story, including observations on moth behavior which sparked controversy.
But the extraordinary complexity and difficulty of exact measurement may mean that that is never the case.
But, as with all successful encyclopedic renderings, its value resides in its detailed, beautifully illustrated, and lucidly organized descriptions.
The People's Press endorsed the book and published statements of support from Henry Demarest Lloyd, Robert G.
John Horgan in the New York Times was mostly positive in his evaluation of the ideas and evidence that Trivers put forward but said of Trivers' writing style: Trivers is not an elegant stylist like Dawkins, Wilson or Pinker.
Reception David Dobbs indicates that Prum's view is controversial but that he makes his case with clarity, grace, and charm, namely that aesthetic courtship gives females sexual choice, autonomy and safety.
References External links Google Books - The Last Days of the Dinosaurs Macmillan Publishers - The Last Days of the Dinosaurs
However, the pseudo-scientific method he uses in his work The Atlas of Creation cannot in any way be considered scientific.
Darwin and the Beagle gives a brief history of Darwin and his predecessors, like the geologists James Hutton and Charles Lyell.
Vincent's University Hospital reviewed the book favorably as well, describing it as "engagingly well-written" and praising the cartoon illustrations.
The Simon & Schuster Encyclopedia of Dinosaurs and Prehistoric Creatures: A Visual Who's Who of Prehistoric Life is an encyclopedia that was published in 1999 by Simon & Schuster.
It was highly important in asserting his dominance of comparative anatomy, and in the long run more influential in establishing evolution amongst biologists than was the debate with Samuel Wilberforce.
Despite all this, the oceanic wildlife remains untethered by most of these impacts, specifically the commercial farmed fish.
The book is a detailed study of the history of Indian paleoanthropology and of the fossil record of prehistoric people of the Indian Subcontinent.
Essentially, Singer claims that although humans possess selfish, competitive tendencies naturally, they have a substantial capacity for cooperation that has also been selected for during human evolution.
The Universal Kinship was one of several works by Moore, including Why I Am a Vegetarian (1895), Better-World Philosophy (1899) and The New Ethics (1907).
The human eye is built upside down and backwards, so that light has to travel through blood vessels and various cells before reaching the light receptors.
Supposing, for instance, that in a population of frogs, males fight to the death over breeding ponds.
Overview The first and second editions (1955 and 1969) provide an overview of the entire range of vertebrate evolution, and are illustrated by the distinctive drawings of Lois Darling.
In the first example, Gould explains that the decline of the top batting average does not imply that there has been a decline in the skill of baseball players.
She began it with a fable of a "small community of modest scholars called natural historians" who all practised their own sciences, until one day a man who "had been called Entomologist, Ecologist, and even Biochemist" arose among them and pronounced "there shall be a new science".
Contents The book opens with an introduction by the authors reflecting on the making of the TV series.
that circumnutation (the process that creates the circular or elliptical movement of the stem and tips of plants) was central in the development of multitudes of adaptations to the environment and thus resulting in an immense variety of plants.
Conditioning by reinforcement, occurs when an event following a response causes an increase in the probability of that response occurring in the future.
Neanderthals, Bandits and Farmers: How Agriculture Really Began is a book on prehistoric agriculture and anthropology by the British science writer Colin Tudge.
By biologists The theoretical biologist Mary Jane West-Eberhard reviewed the book in detail for The Quarterly Review of Biology as a work "of special significance".
Biology for Christian Schools is a 1991 school-level biology textbook written from a Young Earth Creation point of view by William S.
It then narrates the careers of two early, self-taught, 'scientific' creationists; the old Earth creationist Harry Rimmer, and the young Earth flood geologist George McCready Price.
The book was released as several states, particularly Texas and Florida, considered revisions in state science standards.
The book became one of the canonical publications on the modern synthesis and is considered to be exemplary of the original expansion of evolutionary theory.
Wade speculates where evolution will lead humans in the future, suggesting further skeletal gracilisation, increases in intelligence, adaptations to the changing climate, and even the possibility of speciation.
Several prominent dinosaur groups were also not known in 1988 (for instance scansoriopterygids and alvarezsaurs) or known only partially (such as rebbachisaurs and therizinosaurs).
Morris further stated that the more rounded shape of human female breasts means they are mainly a sexual signalling device rather than simply for providing milk for infants.
It became an international best-seller and was nominated for the Samuel Johnson Prize for Non-Fiction in 2003.
The book then narrates the young Earth creationist backlash against the ASA's modernism, with Henry M.
"Otherlands" & Thomas Halliday on climate change Halliday indicates that humankind bears a huge responsibility in the trajectory of our contemporary climate change.
Gould's first book of collected essays, it originated from his monthly column "This View of Life," published in Natural History magazine.
Paleontological accuracy Initial response Upon the release of The New Dinosaurs, many of the animals featured were criticized by paleontologists and science writers, particularly in that so many of the animals are entirely convergent with actual modern-day animals.
An Introduction to African Cave Taphonomy is a 1981 book by Charles Kimberlin Brain regarding the taphonomy of cave deposits in Africa.
Reception The Houston Chronicle stated, "this reference work for the serious student combines succinct scientific descriptions with superbly rendered color illustrations".
Protista / Protoctista, Volume 3: Protozoa (Chiefly Radiolaria & Tintinnina), xii + 195 p., 92 fig., 1954.
Wilson's Sociobiology had with "woeful ignorance" strayed into anthropology, and Wilson's "bright young colleague" Gould had now done the same thing, possibly making trouble for years to come.
franchise of documentaries, the production team of Walking with Cavemen recruited a large team of 111 scientists from various fields to advise on the series.
The book culminates in a call for a revision of existing legal and moral frameworks to better reflect the ethical responsibilities humans have towards animals, grounded in an understanding of their psychological complexity and the evolutionary connections between all forms of life.
In the book, Lorenz uses the mirror as a simple model of the human brain that reflects the part of the stream of information from the outside world it is able to "see".
Bowler and Janet Browne's two-volume biography, Charles Darwin: Voyaging (1995) and Charles Darwin: The Power of Place (2002).
Desmond Morris, the author, who had been the curator of mammals at London Zoo, said his book was intended to popularise and demystify science.
Tempo and Mode earned Simpson the Daniel Giraud Elliot Medal from the National Academy of Sciences in 1944.
Lander explores similarities in the intellectual development, concerns, and impacts of Abraham Lincoln and Charles Darwin, focusing in particular on the issue of slavery in the United States, which both men influentially opposed.
These mutations can be beneficial or deleterious and are selected for or against based on that factor.
Explanatory filter: Mathematician William Dembski devised an "explanatory filter" which essentially says that if something is not clearly produced by nature or by chance then it must be the result of intelligent design.
Wilson argues that evolution has left its traces on characteristics such as generosity, self-sacrifice, worship and the use of sex for pleasure, and proposes a sociobiological explanation of homosexuality.
Another letter, from Philip Kitcher, Professor of Philosophy at Columbia University, asserted that evolution and other scientific findings "are so well supported that they count as facts".
His Darwinian theory of self-deception is arguably his most provocative and interesting idea so far.
Because contragrade changes are driven by external interactions with another changing system, contragrade causes can be seen as analogous to Aristotle's efficient cause.
She argued that the female lion’s reproductive system represented a higher degree of biological complexity than the male's mane or muscle mass.
Reception Neil Tappen, writing in the American Journal of Physical Anthropology, wrote that the book "brings together the findings of a versatile investigator who has been working many years to interpret the hominid-bearing cave deposits in South Africa.
Everhart also covers the discovery of the fossils and geographic records as well as the competition between E.
References External links Supplementary Information to Dinosaurs: The Most Complete, Up-to-Date Encyclopedia for Dinosaur Lovers of All Ages by Thomas R.
After all, the first antibiotic, penicillin, was developed, heroically, by Florey and Chain as recently as the Second World War.
In addition to maintaining Darwin Online, van Wyhe had an interest in the history of phrenology and has given talks on this in Britain, France, and Germany.
In a second review, Scott again points out that the book is anti-evolution, that Johnson's arguments are recycled from scientific creationism.
At the rear of the book is a 53-page Classification list which lists every genus known at the time of publication, along with locality and stratigraphic range.
For a long time, apart from the discussion in his biography of his father, the only widely read though oblique references to the book were to be found in Father and Son, the psychological portrait of Philip Gosse by his son Edmund Gosse published in 1907.
Dr Tatiana receives letters from various creatures about their sex lives, and responds by explaining the biology of sex to creatures concerned.
The concept of extended phenotype has been generalized in an organism-centered view of evolution with the concept of niche construction, in the case where natural selection pressures can be modified by the organisms during the evolutionary process.
A few points will suffice to show how similar Deloria is to outspoken creationist author Duane Gish or any of his ilk." Michael D.
Specifically the church of England spoke out against the book, while liberal Anglicans supported his theory as an instrument used by God.
It examines animal suffering across evolutionary history as a form of natural evil, within the context of the problem of evil.
[the facts] are intelligible if we admit their descent from a common ancestor, together with their subsequent adaptation to diversified conditions...
"The Chimpanzee's Tale" is about comparative genomics, specifically the comparison of human and chimpanzee genomes.
Whether meaning to or not, we are deciding which evolutionary pathways will be shut off forever, and which can be left open to flourish.
Summary Full House aims to explain to the general reader how misconceptions about statistics can lead people to misunderstand the role variation plays in driving trends in complex systems.
Human intelligence, he suggests, is used primarily to attract mates through prodigious displays of wit, charm, inventiveness, and individuality.
Mathematics and Experimental Science The book extolls the natural sciences and the role played by experience in developing the natural sciences.
Creationists mentioned in the book include George Frederick Wright, Louis Agassiz, John William Dawson, George D.
The term is abstract and the concept is impossible to prove with a controlled scientific experiment; as Lima-de-Faria states it 'Selection cannot be weighed or poured into a vial.
For example, Bergson's term "duration" refers to a more individual, subjective experience of time, as opposed to mathematical, objectively measurable "clock time." In Creative Evolution, Bergson suggests that the experience of time as "duration" can best be understood through intuition.
Kenyon believed that proteins were directly formed by attraction between amino acids without DNA coding, and that these were derivatives from non-living raw chemicals in a conducive environment.
Wilson describes On Human Nature as a sequel to his earlier books The Insect Societies (1971) and Sociobiology: The New Synthesis (1975).
Davey described Better-World Philosophy as Moore's first major work, observing that contemporary reviews, though mixed, often remarked on his bold style and intensity of opinion.
The rise of archosaurs as one of the predominant groups is highlighted, along with their competitors, the therapsids.
Moore was also connected to the broader humanitarian movement of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, which aimed to improve the treatment of both animals and humans.
But, fascinatingly, they got better in different ways – that is, different tribes developed different sets of mutations.” Lenski's student Zachary Blount found that one strain evolved the ability to digest citrate.
[Foreword by Richard Darwin Keynes] (Cambridge University Press, forthcoming July 2009, with Gordon Chancellor and Kees Rookmaaker).
In the second part of his book, Wade proposes that regional differences in evolution of social behavior explain many differences among different human societies around the world.
Mammoths, Sabertooths, and Hominids: 65 Million Years of Mammalian Evolution in Europe is a book written by Jordi Agustí and illustrated by Mauricio Antón.
The 2002 series was an international co-production, involving the Franco-German channel Arte, the German ZDF, the Austrian ORF, the Italian MFE - MediaForEurope (via their Mediaset division), and the American Animal Planet and Discovery Channel.
For instance, the apex predator of the South American pampas, the coelurosaurian "cutlasstooth", has evolved huge, cutting teeth to allow it to prey upon large sauropods.
Overview The book's particular focus is on a criticism of current models of migration to the New World, in particular the Bering land bridge theory.
The foreword to the English version was written by one of the key advocates for natural selection and evolution of the 20th century, and a co-developer of the modern synthesis in biology, Julian Huxley.
Charles's wife Emma Darwin's correspondence was published by Charles and Emma's daughter (Frank's sister) Henrietta Litchfield in 1905/1915 as Emma Darwin: A Century of Family Letters.
Wilfred Elders said that "The book is remarkable because it has 23 co-authors who comprise a veritable 'Who's Who' in creationism.
The Red Queen: Sex and the Evolution of Human Nature is a popular science book by Matt Ridley exploring the evolutionary psychology of sexual selection.
Further ideas presented in the book that had little to no evidence in the 1980s but has since been found in the fossil record include semi-aquatic dinosaurs, arctic dinosaurs, and dinosaurs subjected to insular dwarfism.
The geologic record shows that ancient lifeforms such as marine reptiles, pteranodons, and toothed birds inhabited the general area both in and out of the water.
Hughes wrote that the basic idea behind the book "seems to be that there are certain laws of form built into the universe which somehow determine the development of organisms as well as a number of abiotic processes", but the definition of autoevolution was never made clear.
In an attempt to find a solution to the philosophical problems associated with teleological explanations, Deacon returns to Aristotle's four causes and attempts to modernize them with thermodynamic concepts.
It considers how across species, females are more careful in selecting their mates than males (they invest far more energy into each offspring).
In this work, Teilhard describes evolution as a process that leads to increasing complexity, culminating in the unification of consciousness.
According to Tucker, many academics who received the book unsolicited were outraged at its content, calling it "racial pornography" and a "vile piece of work"; at least one insisting on returning it to the publisher.
It is about men." Years later Knight and his wife are taking their granddaughter Rhoda to the American Museum of Natural History.
Engels uses this framework to suggest that humanity must transcend the ecologically destructive patterns of capitalism, and progress to a mode of production that operates in harmony with nature.
Chapters Cosmic Mirror: The questions of who and what humans are explored in terms of the history of the universe, life and humankind as when looking in a mirror.
The two groups used such different methods and terminology that it was difficult for them to communicate.
He then describes the geographical distribution of organisms, arguing that this was created by long-distance dispersal of pioneer organisms, such as insects blown across the sea.
The Seven Daughters of Eve: The Science That Reveals Our Genetic Ancestry is a 2001 semi-fictional book by Bryan Sykes that presents the science of human origin in Africa and their dispersion to a general audience.
References External links Harvard's promotional page Charlie Rose, March 1, 1994 - Gould discusses the purpose of the book Of Beauty and Consolation - Gould on writing Structure
The book was reviewed in the British Quarterly Review, Journal of Mental Science and the Quarterly Journal of Science.
Environmental impact and extinction (part five) Here the argument is that civilizations sometimes get caught up in internal superiority contests, and deplete the environment to such an extent that they may never recover.
It was published in 2009, dubbed "Darwin Year" as it marked the bicentennial of Charles Darwin and the hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the publication of his On the Origin of Species By Means of Natural Selection.
Chapman, writing for Nature, stated that Alvarez's "slim" book can be read "in a single sitting and I recommend it highly – if only as a jumping-off point to other perspectives on this dramatic scientific revolution." In a review for Scientific American of T.
The Selfish Genius: How Richard Dawkins Rewrote Darwin's Legacy is a 2009 book by Fern Elsdon-Baker about the history of evolutionary theory, published to coincide with the 150th anniversary of the publication of Charles Darwin's On the Origin of Species.
The designers of these animals (Weta Workshop) were inspired by Dixon's works, in particular The New Dinosaurs.
Boucher places Kropotkin's book as a precursor to the development of the biological theory of altruism.
The book then describes the influence of creationism in churches and in countries outside the United States, and the rise of the intelligent design movement, before concluding with a chapter on creationism's global impact.
The book is a journey through 65 million years of palaeontological records, from the extinction of the dinosaurs to just before present.
See also Evolutionary biology External links Description by Princeton U Press Contemporary review by R.A.
References External links New York Times May 11, 1997 (Review) Jack Hirshleifer (1997) UCLA Working Paper 771 (Review) L.
After the fossil was Uncovered on July 4, 1899, team member Arthur Coggeshall joked that it should be called "Star-Spangled Dinosaur" because of its July 4 "birthday".
Others whose writings as prominent scientists were listed in the book's bibliography were Sir Arthur Eddington, Ernst Haeckel, Sir Julian Huxley, Sir James Jeans and A.
See also Biology and sexual orientation On Aggression The Two Cultures The Social Conquest of Earth References Bibliography Books Journals Online articles External links Description of the book at Harvard University Press On Human Nature at Open Library
Rushton uses averages of hundreds of studies, modern and historical, to assert the existence of this pattern.
Symbolic thought and language The reasons for the unique cognitive capacity of humans are explored, along with those for the large number of human activities impossible for animals.
The book is divided into seven chapters, each supplemented with illustrations regarding the prominent animals and plants in each time and area.
Challenges to natural selection There were serious scientific objections to the process of natural selection as the key mechanism of evolution, including Carl Nägeli's insistence that a trivial characteristic with no adaptive advantage could not be developed by selection.
In an article in New Republic, Leon Wieseltier argued that Nagel was "not denounced for being wrong, but also for being heretical." Philosopher Gary Gutting noted that despite the argumentative failings of the book, Nagel developed the idea of an "atheism that is anti-materialist".
In South Africa, Walking with Cavemen footage was filmed in the Southern Kalahari Desert, the Augrabies Falls National Park and the Orange River regions.
Both Dale and Georgi had a background in documentary filmmaking and had, among other projects, previously worked together on the 2001 documentary film The Human Body.
--- Parts K and L refer to cephalopods with external shells, including ammonites and Nautilus-like creatures.
These effects are all the effects that the gene (or replicator) has on the world at large, not just in the body of the organism in which it is contained.
Kolbert explains that, even though ammonites were 'fit' for their current environment, a single moment can completely change which traits are advantageous and which are lethal.
Content Kropotkin emphasizes the distinction between competitive struggle between individual organisms over limited resources and collective struggle between organisms and the environment.
Beginning just before the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event, Black's book focuses on the aftermath of the asteroid impact and the way that life came back in the million years following the death of the dinosaurs.
Inspired by the science fiction works of Olaf Stapledon and Edward Gibbon's The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, Kösemen worked on All Tomorrows from 2003 to the publication of the book as a free PDF file online in 2006.
He examines the magnificent achievements of civilised society, the sublime explorations that make up science and the humanities, as well as the horrible behaviours of this same society such as war, slavery and rape.
In the arena of efficacy he explores the forces beside natural selection that have been considered in evolutionary theory.
Eugenie Scott wrote that, in her opinion, the book "teaches little that is accurate about either the nature of science, or the topic of evolution.
Dinosaurs (The Most Complete, Up-to-Date Encyclopedia for Dinosaur Lovers of All Ages) is a book by Thomas R.
Norman, John Stanton McIntosh and Peter Galton on controversial theropods, sauropods, and prosauropods respectively were noted as particularly exhaustive.
Over the period from 10,000 BC to AD 1, the world population increased about a hundredfold - estimates range from 40 to 170 times.
He lectures and broadcasts on Darwin, evolution, science and religion and the history of science around the world.
Darwin closely followed the events of the American Civil War and wanted Lincoln and the Union to prevail, but it is unlikely that Lincoln read Darwin's work.
This discovery was in direct opposition to the theory of gradualism, the leading belief of the period that evolutionary change occurred slowly across large time periods, rather than in bursts of short, distinct events, a theory known as catastrophism.
It was originally published in hardcover in Great Britain by HarperCollins Publishers, under the title Life: An Unauthorised Biography.
Hall, Evolution & Development Book review – by Dan Graur, The Quarterly Review of Biology Notes External links Frozen Evolution - available online
Reception Grandmother Fish got mostly positive reviews by reviewers such as School Library Journal, Steven Pinker, and Jonathan Haidt.
The Evolution of Melanism: a study of recurring necessity; with special reference to industrial melanism in the Lepidoptera is a 1973 science book by the lepidopterist Bernard Kettlewell.
These physical factors include differential adhesion of cells and feedback oscillations between cells.
Fisher's book, The Genetical Theory of Selection (1930) emphasized the importance of sexual production and genetic recombination in evolution.
Oktar himself maintains the giveaways were "normal public relations", funded by profits from sales of his books.
(2010), "Whole-genome resequencing reveals loci under selection during chicken domestication", Nature, 464 (7288): 547–591, Bibcode:2010Natur.464..587R, doi:10.1038/nature08832, PMID 20220755.
In 1953, Clair Patterson used lead-uranium dating to determine the age of the Canyon Diablo meteorite, which has existed since the formation of the solar system.
The book proposed a version of orthogenesis in place of Darwin's mechanism of natural selection, suggesting that evolution is motivated by the élan vital, a "vital impetus" that can also be understood as humanity's natural creative impulse.
This book, and Morris's earlier book The Naked Ape, are two of the early works in the field of sociobiology, which have both contributed much to contemporary understandings of society.
Thus, from the war of nature, from famine and death, the most exalted object which we are capable of conceiving, namely, the production of the higher animals, directly follows.
In the book, Miller examines the battle between evolution and intelligent design (ID), and explores the implications of the battle for science in America.
Morgan admitted in 2003 that the book "was a thoroughly unscientific romp riddled with errors and convenient conclusions".
yet natural selection - that aspect of the theory that made divine intervention unnecessary - he could not accept.
External links Treatise on Invertebrate Paleontology, Volumes A through W, 1953 to the present.: Home page sponsored by The Paleontological Institute at the University of Kansas.
The case was brought to the European Court by several members of the Estamirov family together with the British solicitor Gareth Peirce and the organization Russian Justice Initiative.
The pilot headed away from the attack but took care that he was not over the sea before ordering the crew to bale out.
Situated in a plaza, this modest memorial pays tribute to the victims who were held at this facility.
Between 31 May and 8 June 1978, the Argentine government kidnapped a score of RL militants, the most important being Rafael Tello, Pablo Tello, Elsa Martínez, Hernán Ramírez Achinelli, "Melena" Edison Oscar Cantero Freire and "el Pata" Fernando Díaz Cárdenas.
On November 20, 2005, roughly 20,000 protesters attended the vigil, "remembering those who have been silenced by SOA violence".
Further, he believed the training served to "increase respect for United States foreign policy goals and the United States concept of military-civilian relationships at the national level".
On 7 May he was killed along with Olim Zarobekov at the government-run Radio House in Dushanbe, according to the Union of Journalists of Tajikistan.
It was recently applied by the Chilean Supreme Court in December 2007." While Pinochet was detained under house arrest on October 30, 2006, over "charges including murder, torture, and kidnapping in the years following his 1973 coup, he was never formally convicted.
Origins Warsaw was considered by the Germans to be the centre of Polish resistance against the Nazi "New Order".
Russia was a European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of the February 5, 2000, Novye Aldi massacre in Chechnya, which unanimously held Russia responsible for violations of Articles 2 (right to life) and 13 (right to effective remedy) of the European Convention of Human Rights.
A special commando team from Argentina worked in conjunction with Somoza's OSN (Office of National Security) and its Argentine advisors with the objective of capturing exiled squadrons from the ERP and the Montoneros.
Although he was already older, he joined the group and performed in the institute's orchestra, where he played the violin and prepared talks for various ceremonies.
Early life Al-Gashey was a former student of nursing in University of Tripoli, Libya and had won a scholarship to study chemistry at the American University of Beirut.
Prisoner of war Flying operationally with No.72 Squadron, Birkland was pilot of Spitfire Mark Vb serial W3367 on the afternoon of 7 November 1941 on a Rodeo mission over the coast of occupied Europe.
He was last seen on 14 April 1944 in the Danzig area and was probably seized by the Gestapo, disappearing in captivity.
It appeared that the suspects were on a reconnaissance-mission and had parked their car to save a space for the actual car containing the explosives.
According to the police, Fahim was killed while in custody after a group of militants opened fire on them.
Later in 1811, Rodríguez was elected parliamentary representative for Talca on 4 September, appointed Secretary of War on 15 November and conscripted into the army on 2 December with the rank of captain.
In the 20 July plot, once the Nazis had been routed, Koch was slated to become the presiding judge of the Reichsgericht, the highest court in the German Reich.
While the term "jungle justice" is used across West and Central Africa to describe mob-led extrajudicial punishment, it is commonly studied and documented in Nigeria and Cameroon.
He is notable for the part he took in the 'Great Escape' from Stalag Luft III in March 1944 and as one of the men recaptured and subsequently shot by the Gestapo.
At Stalag Luft I Bull met Roger Bushell during various tunnelling escape attempts, Bushell later masterminded the Great Escape.
The Murder of Fred Hampton at IMDb (A 1971 documentary film directed by Howard Alk) FBI files on Fred Hampton From COINTELPRO to the Shadow Government: As Fred Hampton Jr.
In January 2016, actor Steven Schub played the part of Avraham 'Yair' Stern in the world premiere of historian Zev Golan's play The Ghosts of Mizrachi Bet Street, based on the life of Avraham Stern directed by Leah Stoller and S.
Military jurisdiction Prisoners of war Major treaties such as the Geneva Conventions and Hague Conventions, and customary international law protect the rights of captured regular or irregular enemy soldiers and civilians.
The two surviving soldiers were summarily executed by FMLN forces in one of the most infamous incidents during El Salvador's civil war.
Willy Williams and Rusty Kierath headed off and later joined up with Johnny Bull and Jerzy Mondschein to trek through the Reisengebirge mountains where they were arrested by a mountain patrol trying to cross into occupied Czechoslovakia and taken to Reichenberg prison.
On 19 November 1941 he became a pilot for the 1st Photographic Reconnaissance Unit (PRU) flying out of RAF Benson South Oxfordshire, England.
During the National Reorganization Process, prisoners were shot during "transfers", to later claim that the transport had been attacked and that they had died in the ensuing confrontation.
Impact The killings of seven journalists within the span of a year has spurred some media outlets to stop reporting on government actions and has caused others to go so far as to stop reporting entirely.
In the past, summary execution of pirates, spies, and francs-tireurs have been performed and considered legal under existing international law.
He was amongst the early groups of arrivals in late spring 1942 and he immediately began preparing to escape.
Stationed in French Indochina in 1945, he was beheaded by the Japanese during their March coup d'état.
38 Squadron RAF In August 1941 Cross succeeded in his aim to return to operational flying and was posted to No.
Over the target area they received two serious hits by anti-aircraft fire and began to limp homewards but had to ditch in the English Channel.
See also Anarchism in Argentina María Esther Biscayart de Tello, mother of Rafael and Pablo Tello References Bibliography Diz, Verónica; Trujillo, Fernando López (2007).
Erwin von Lahousen and Hans Bernd Gisevius, two of Canaris's main subordinates, survived the war and testified during the Nuremberg trials about Canaris's courage in opposing Hitler.
Power was killed almost a year later in September when the party he was with, led by Colonel Stewart, were attempting to break through a blockade.
Lemonnier was subsequently taken prisoner himself and ordered by a Japanese general to sign a document formally surrendering the forces under his command.
Because giving this assistance would expose the husband to liability, the Director of Public Prosecutions was asked to agree not to prosecute her husband.
His brother Captain Greg Kierath was serving with an Australian Anti-Tank company and was killed at Tobruk on 14 April 1941 on about the date when Kierath gained his pilot's aircrew brevet.
However, the convictions which were given to six former DINA members and two former prominent army officers in August 2023 would be described as the "final conviction" the Supreme Court of Chile would hand down for the Soria assassination.
At some point Staverman and Pattiwal separated from the others to undertake further exploration of the countryside, and were ambushed by a group of natives.
This led radicalized youth that would then form the Montoneros to embrace more radical beliefs of Camilo Torres and García Elorrio instead, with Torres arguing that "The duty of every Catholic is to be a revolutionary" and that "The Catholic who is not a revolutionary is living in mortal sin".
Five German POWs, whose uniforms were found to still have blood on them, were court-martialed for Kunze's murder.
Many Christians took shelter in the local French school; Osman's brigands abducted and raped the women and girls, killed the men and boys, and later burned the school.
Literally only needing to cross the river to Basel in neutral Switzerland he was hand-cuffed and taken to a local police station.
The fate of Paul Maitla was uncertain for number of decades, until some information was discovered in 2005 in the city archives of the Czech town of Nymburk.
On 30 September 2014 the Court denied the request to apply an interim measure against but requested the State of Azerbaijan to provide explanations and reasons for the delay.
Early life Stern was born in Suwałki, present-day Poland (then the part of Poland that was under Russian Partition).
Memorial In 2016, several former inmates in associations such as the Colectivo de Mujeres Sobrevivientes Siempre Resistentes ("Collective of surviving women always resisting") and the Sobrevivientes de Venda Sexy ("Survivors of Venda Sexy") asked the former facility to be made a national monument.
Painful Easter The repression continued and in the next days the police would imprison hundreds of agrarian workers.
A group of Jews and Belarusians, members and sympathizers of the delegalized Communist Party, all citizens of Poland, took control of the town of Skidel and some nearby locations, acquired firearms, often from skirmishes with Polish Army units and police.
Resistencia Libertaria (initially known as the Resistencia Anticapitalista Libertaria) was an Argentine anarchist urban guerrilla group that emerged in 1974 via a network of workers and university militants from La Plata and Córdoba.
Azerbaijan on 4 November 2021, pronouncing the State of Azerbaijani guilty of the breach of articles 2 and 3 (violations of the right to life and the prohibition of torture, incomplete investigation and delayed return of the body.
Originally his remains were buried at Sagan, but he is now buried in part of the Poznań Old Garrison Cemetery beside his fellow escapers.
Early life Gerald MacIntosh Johnston was born on October 1, 1904, in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada to James Macintosh Johnston and Clare Maud Mckay Johnston.
Even though he escaped the disastrous Battle of Edgcote, he was lynched by a mob at Bridgwater on 17 August 1469.
He began his primary studies in his hometown, and later continued them at the Colegio San José in Buenos Aires, run by Bayonne parents, where prominent figures from the Argentine political and business scene also studied, including former President Hipólito Yrigoyen.
Arriving at the general Cemetery along the Avenida de la Paz, the funeral became an impressive popular protest, the first since September 11 ...
Career Joining the United States Foreign Service in 1955, White served in a variety of positions at the State Department and in US delegations, primarily in Latin America.
On the morning of 29 March 1944 Jim Wernham and Nick Skantzikas were removed from the cell and then during the afternoon Doug Poynter and Pop Green.
forces prepared to depart from the staging area, a helicopter collided with a transport plane, causing a fire that killed eight servicemen.
Pinochet was at the centre of this illegal arms trade, receiving money through various offshore and front companies, including Banco Coutts International in Miami.
The brigade was also involved, with the assistance of false TTG paperwork, in the acquisition of large quantities of small arms and other martial equipment for use by the Haganah in Palestine.
Nearing the border suspicious policemen insisted on carefully examining their papers, checking their briefcases which contained newspapers and escape rations.
Richardson School of Law Library at the University of Hawaiʻi places the number of the victims of enforced disappearances under the rule of Ferdinand Marcos at 783.
Known as Guatón Romo ("Fatso Romo") or Comandante Raúl, he was one of DINA's key torturers, operating in centers such as Villa Grimaldi.
On 25 November 1975, General Augusto Pinochet's 60th birthday, leaders of the military intelligence services of Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay met with Manuel Contreras, chief of DINA (the Chilean secret police), in Santiago de Chile, officially creating the Plan Condor.
On July 18 Requejo was with his wife and son in Madridejos, reportedly preparing to travel to Puebla de Sanabria to commence summer holidays.
War service On 19 April 1940 Long commenced his service with the Royal Air Force Volunteer Reserve with service number 922353 and by 24 December 1940 had been promoted to Leading Aircraftman and awarded his pilot brevet (wings).
For example, Al-Jazeera's bureau chief in Islamabad, Ahmad Zaidan, was wrongly identified as the most probable member of al-Qaeda and the Muslim Brotherhood on their records.
49 Squadron RAF at Scampton flying Handley Page Hampdens but was severely wounded on 16 October 1940 by anti-aircraft fire over Bordeaux harbour flying Hampden L4129 on a mine laying mission.
He took control of the camp then toured the camp with a group of reporters (including war correspondent Marguerite Higgins).
The coalition HQ let the Jordanian Air Forces perform most of the air strike sorties planned for that day.
On 3 June 1996, the French criminal court found the doctor innocent as the foetus was not considered viable, and thus was not a "human person" under the French Criminal Code (then Article 319, now Articles 221—226).
He enlisted in the Polish Army before 1930 later transferring to the Polish Air Force and rising through the ranks to become a commissioned officer.
Oleksandr Kovalenko – editor-in-chief of the newspaper Social Politics (Kyiv), on 8 February was found shot dead in a forest near Zhytomyr.
As of 10 March, Oleksandr Ihorovych Matsievskyi (Ukrainian: Олександр Ігорович Мацієвський), a 42-year-old Ukrainian soldier deployed to Bakhmut in November 2022 and who also disappeared, remained a credible alternative due to contextual and visual similarities.
Casey was a member of the group of "bad lads" with Bushell who were sent to the reputedly escape proof Stalag Luft III in the province of Lower Silesia near the town of Sagan (now Żagań in Poland).
Honours Wisła Kraków Ekstraklasa: 1927, 1928 Polish Cup: 1925–26 References External links Władysław Kowalski at 90minut.pl (in Polish)
References External links Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Center for International Policy Appearances on C-SPAN
Later the Armenian authorities started investigating the possibility of his kidnapping from the Armenian territory by the Azerbaijani forces.
He was taken prisoner by the Yugoslav Partisans and shot on 5 June 1945 in Ljubljana, together with generals Gustav Fehn (XV Mountain Corps), Werner von Erdmannsdorff (LXXXXI Corps) and Heinz Kattner (Feldkommandant of Sarajevo).
From then on, the Marines returned every Saturday, forcing male villagers to take them to the women, after which the Marines would take them into the nearby hills and rape them.
Biography Mohsen Hojaji was an officer in the IRGC operating in Syria as part of an advisory team to the Syrian government forces during the Syrian Civil War.
At some point – definitely after 21 June 1450 – he married Isabel, daughter of Sir John Barre of Herefordshire.
Background On September 11, 2010 a 20-years-old resident of the Armenian village of Ttujur bordering with Azerbaijan, Manvel Saribekyan, was captured by the Azerbaijani military near the Azerbaijani village of Zamanli.
He was posthumously mentioned in despatches in June 1944, recognizing his conspicuous bravery as a prisoner because none of the other relevant decorations then available could be awarded posthumously.
During the Second Chechen War, he did not take an active part in hostilities and instead sought a negotiated end to the war on behalf of Chechen President Aslan Maskhadov.
Obama defended the use of drones as just because America "is at war with al Qaeda, the Taliban and their associated forces".
After his medical internship, Rascher worked with his now divorced father in Basel, Switzerland, and continued his medical studies there, joining the Swiss Voluntary Work Forces.
intelligence would provide the Argentine government with intelligence and logistics support for an arms interdiction program to stem the flow of military supplies to the FMLN from Cuba and Nicaragua.
In particular, the Telegram channel of the neo-Nazi Rusich Group posted a message saying: "You will be surprised how many of these videos will gradually pop up", accompanying the message with a smiley emoji.
On 23 October 1942, Koenen parachuted behind German lines at Osterode in East Prussia and made his way to Berlin to his contact, Ilse Stöbe.
After recovering, Wicker completed courses for SS leadership applicants at the SS-Junker Schools in Bad Tölz from August to November 1943.
On 19 August 1915, U-24 sank the White Star Liner SS Arabic with the loss of 44 lives – this included three Americans and resulted in a diplomatic incident between Germany and the United States.
A woman who identified herself as the soldier's sister said that her brother could "definitely stand up to the Russians like that" and that "he never hid the truth in his life, and he definitely wouldn't hide it in front of the enemy".
Herbig, Munich 2003, ISBN 3-7766-2317-9, p.242 ff Ulrich Sahm: Ilse Stöbe Die Rote Kapelle im Widerstand gegen den Nationalsozialismus.
Anunciação was set free and then dragged from his bed at night by a mob of forty people who beat him to death with bricks and clubs.
Killings by both official and unofficial security forces would climax in the late 1970s and early 1980s under the presidencies of Fernando Romeo Lucas García and Efraín Ríos Montt, with over 18,000 documented killings in 1982 alone.
But on May 30, 1944, Adams P-51B was attacked and shot down by 4 Bf-109s near Celle Air Base: he parachuted out of his aircraft and landed on the ground.
A nationwide, self-imposed media blackout also took place after the killing of Peter Moi that lasted from 8/21/15 through 11AM on 8/22/15.
The original band of ten resisters who marched onto Fort Benning and splashed blood upon the School of Americas to commemorate the first anniversary of the UCA massacre has grown in recent years to a community of 10,000.
Killing of counter admiral Quijada A few days before the inauguration of elected president Héctor Cámpora, the ERP-22 decided to launch a new action: the "Operation Mercury", whose objective was to kill Counter-admiral Hermes Quijada.
The Task Force will eventually give way to a permanent parliamentary Human Rights Commission, which will have the capacity to investigate allegations over a longer period.
On completion of basic initial training at Somers and Narrandera Catanach was posted to Canada where he learned to fly and received his pilot's wings in June 1941 being commissioned pilot officer.
However, President Jimmy Carter, who took office in January 1977, highlighted issues of human rights in Latin America, including in Argentina.
After Saribekyan's body was repatriated to Armenia on November 4, 2010 the Press Service of the Prosecutor General of Armenia informed that the forensic examination had revealed signs of torture on the body and opened a criminal investigation.
St Paul's Cathedral A ceremony was held 10 June 1888 at St Paul's Cathedral to commemorate the journalists killed during the 3 years of campaigns in Sudan and the dedication of a brass tablet, designed by Herbert Johnson listing seven journalists.
Examples United States March 20 to April 15, 1882: Wyatt Earp and Doc Holliday tracked and killed 4 cowboys said to be responsible for Morgan Earp's death, which would later become known as the Earp Vendetta Ride.
In the General elections of 1965 he was an independent candidate for Diyarbakir but was not elected.
During his high school studies, the Dersim rebellion led by Seyid Riza was going on, which lead to some frictions with his Turkish classmates following which he was shortly detained.
The next day, the communist People's Guard carried out an attack on the Bar Podlaski restaurant at 15 Nowogrodzka Street, corner of Krucza Street (a place designated Nur für Deutsche and intended for SS and police officers).
The first applicant, Mulkiye Osman, was the widow of Ali Osman, who was shot dead by Paul Paget-Lewis on 7 March 1988.
A Shalinsky District's prosecutor's office said it opened a case for kidnapping, but "the steps taken to identify the individuals responsible for this crime have been unsuccessful" and the investigation was suspended on 12 December 2000.
This is a list of journalists killed in India See also List of journalists killed in Bangladesh Attacks on RTI activists in India References External links CPJ
In September, the two informed local police, who did not report the killings to higher authorities and left the remains in their place for several months to ensure that the male villager remained anonymous.
Valech Report is the report from the second truth commission in Chile, considered to have continued Rettig's work.
His aircraft was shot down by anti-aircraft fire and the crew had to bale out, all six being taken prisoner.
Makaratzis v Greece pushes these obligations further, so that the state must have mechanisms to deter offences against people.
See also Death threat Notes References CA Gearty, 'Unravelling Osman' (2001) 64(2) Modern Law Review 159 External links ECHR judgment
Politically he evolved from centre-left to extreme right: initially Requejo supported the Romanonista dynastic Liberalism, then he turned towards accidentalist Acción Católica, and finally he joined Carlism.
Hopp and other alleged accomplices in Schäfer's crimes who were charged and awaiting trial took refuge in Ewald Frank's church in Germany, where they were protected from extradition.
After that, the video of torture and mutilation of a woman captured by Azerbaijani soldiers was first released on Telegram and after a while it was found that the woman is the Armenian soldier Anush Apetyan.
His death highlights the imperative need to improve the security of media professionals in all circumstances.
The same year he also won a notable tournament in Munich (+4 –0 =1) ahead of Rudolf Spielmann and Efim Bogoljubov.
Unlike his later more sophisticated escapes Grimson simply kicked his German guard in the backside and ran, but he was quickly recaptured.
Pre-war life Gouws was born in Bultfontein, South Africa the eldest son of an Afrikaans speaking farming family of Boer tradition.
Originally cremated and buried at Sagan, he is now buried in part of the Poznan Old Garrison Cemetery.
Following his training, he was shipped overseas where he served as a Halifax tail gunner with 405 Squadron RCAF.
Frank La Rue, the UNESCO assistant director-general for communication and information said, “On average, one journalist is murdered every four days.” The journalists and media persons who were killed or murdered in 2017 References Rashid, Omar (13 February 2016).
Meanwhile, on 8 June, Sir John Fastolf finally left Paris with a reinforcing army of several thousand, headed for the Loire River valley.
By January 1936 he was a leading aircraftman posted to Basra in Iraqas an engine fitter but in November 1936 he was appointed driver with the British Embassy in Baghdad.
113 (1973) Protection of Life During Pregnancy Act 2013 Sheila Hodgers Eighth Amendment of the Constitution of Ireland Abortion in the Republic of Ireland Death of Savita Halappanavar Attorney General v.
Prisoner of war On the evening of 13–14 October 1942, Kidder took off in a Wellington Mark III bomber (serial number BJ775) from RAF Warboys to bomb targets in the German port town of Kiel.
The order required guards to shoot prisoners who engaged in resistance or escape attempts, without warning; failing to do so would result in dismissal or arrest.
After the October Revolution, Kirpichnikov planned to join the newly formed Russian White Army fighting against Bolsheviks.
Death In February 1977, Oryema, together with Archbishop Janani Luwum and Interior Minister Charles Oboth Ofumbi were arrested for an alleged coup attempt and died shortly after.
2007-2010 trial In May 2007, Chilean judge Víctor Montiglio indicted 74 former DINA agents, most of whom were previously unknown to the public, as part of the largest investigation into the operations of this secret police force.
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt during the Great Depression, was well received and became known as Plan Chardón.
Post-war investigations saw a number of those guilty of the murders tracked down, arrested and tried for their crimes.
Afghanistan See also War in Afghanistan (2001–present) Human rights in Afghanistan References External links The Journalists Memorial
The permanent staff's duty was to help newly captured Allied aircrew to adjust to life as prisoners of war.
It abruptly resurfaced and only two crew escaped (a wounded Leutnant and the helmsman) from a hatch before it sank again.
In May 1933, the Munich prosecutor's office, not yet assimilated to Nazi policy in the Gleichschaltung process, began investigating the murder of several prisoners at Dachau, prompted by the formal complaint of Sophie Handschuh, who wanted to know the true cause of her son's death at the camp.
In the Court's view, the astonishing ineffectiveness of the prosecuting authorities in this case could only be qualified as acquiescence in the events.
In the documentary film One Day in September (2000), it is stated that Israeli Mossad assassination squads killed both him and Mohammad Safady.
Jamal Al-Gashey can be seen seated in the middle of the three, between his cousin Adnan (believed to be the guerilla who shot and killed five of the hostages who were tied up in one of the helicopters) and Mohammed Safady.
The military, however, intercepted the convoy at Masaje, close to Yandev in Gboko local government where Gana was killed.
On the other hand, the doctrine was defined by its creator, General Perón, as deeply national, humanist and Christian, respectful of the human person above all things.
All the top leaders of the paramilitaries in Miami were there." Carriles and Bosch were both present at the meeting in Bonao, at which CORU was formed, along with Gaspar Jiménez.
Further, the school leveraged instructors returning from service in Vietnam to "insure currency of the instruction".
The Glasgow Herald of 19 May 1944 published an early list naming several officers, including Casey Awards His conspicuous bravery as a prisoner was recognised by a mention in despatches as none of the other relevant decorations then available could be awarded posthumously.
Pre-war life McGarr was born in Johannesburg, South Africa and moved with his family to Durban, in 1923.
Execution On 8 December 1922, along with three other republicans Liam Mellows, Richard Barrett and Joe McKelvey captured with the fall of the Four Courts, Rory O'Connor was executed by firing squad in reprisal for the anti-treaty IRA's killing of Free State TD Seán Hales.
In March 2009, the magazine CartaCapital published previously unreleased documents of the National Information Service created by an undercover agent who was present at Goulart's properties in Uruguay.
They had a private exchange that made a strong impression on Charles; Jean Pasquerel, Joan's confessor, later testified that Joan told him she had reassured the Dauphin that he was Charles VI's son and the legitimate king.
He completed his F-16 training in the Royal Jordanian Air Force, and by 2012, had qualified as an operational F-16 pilot and was assigned to No.
Unable to receive a direct course of action from Carter, the mixed messages that the Shah received from Vance and Brzezinski contributed to his confusion and indecision as he fled Iran in January 1979 and his regime collapsed.
The guerrillas reduced the staff and came to Garcia, who slept next to his partner, singer and actress Marina Dorel, and reassured him, while a female militant wore the uniform of one of the maids in case of the arrival of some unforeseen guest.
Extrajudicial punishment is a punishment for an alleged crime or offense which is carried out without legal process or supervision by a court or tribunal through a legal proceeding.
According to The New York Times, his father's experiences in Nazi Germany made the elder Reich "immediately suspicious of [Fidel] Castro, prompting him to flee with his family to North Carolina in 1960, when Otto was 15." In 1966, Reich received a B.A.
Between 1962 and 1966, nearly 400 Paraguayan military personnel were trained by the United States in the Panama Canal Zone and on US soil.
Gisela Seewald, who admitted the use of electroshock therapy and sedatives that her boss had claimed were placebos.
Al-Qaeda operations after 9/11 After 9/11, Interpol issued a warrant for Ayman al-Zawahiri's arrest, over his involvement in the attacks.
Located in the Floresta neighborhood of Buenos Aires, it operated during the military dictatorship of 1976–1983.
After the shootout at Fürstenfeldbruck Air Base, he was captured along with his nephew Jamal Al-Gashey, and Mohammed Safady.
Canaris was arrested on 23 July 1944 on the basis of the interrogation of his successor at Military Intelligence, Georg Hansen.
Early life Terwase, literally meaning 'God help,' was born a native of Gbishe, Kpav District, Katsina-Ala local government area of Benue State.
An autopsy of Luluyeva showed that she died from a multiple strong blows to the head with a solid blunt object at least three months before the discovery of the corpse-dumping site.
The chapel was dedicated in 1940 and was large enough to accommodate the school's entire student body, which was then 1,200.
Two weeks later, he wrote a letter to Newton's mother in which he described her son's courage and expressed the hope that he might yet be found alive.
Mehmed Reshid was appointed as the new Vali of Diyarbekir and arrived with a small private death squad composed of Circassian volunteers.
This included the fictional group's requisition and use of civilian and military vehicles, gasoline, rations, medical supplies, and other such materiel.
This document, which John Dinges received in 1979, two years after its declassification, was cited in a book, written by Dinges and Saul Landau, about the assassination of Letelier.
Sweden Cats Falck, 1984 Turkey United Kingdom Ross McWhirter, 1975 Bulgarian dissident writer and BBC journalist Georgi Markov died on 11 September 1978 after having been poisoned with a Bulgarian umbrella.
Facts Diane Pretty was suffering from motor neurone disease and was paralysed from the neck down, had little decipherable speech and was fed by a tube.
Most prominent among the victims is Hrant Dink, killed in 2007, but the death of Metin Göktepe also raised great concern, since police officers beat him to death.
Portrayal in film Al-Gashey is portrayed by French Moroccan actor Karim Saidi in the 2005 film Munich.
During World War II, he developed contacts with the 20 July plot conspirators, including Hans von Dohnanyi and Hans Oster from the military-intelligence.
Where appropriate, the United States seeks assurances that transferred persons will not be tortured.
In 1980, Adolfo Pérez Esquivel, leader of the Peace and Justice Service, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for reporting many of Argentina's human rights violations to the world at large.
Stroessner also fired the interior minister Ynsfrán in 1966, but his replacement, Sabino Augusto Montanaro (a member of the "Cuatrinomio de Oro", a group of politicians intimately connected to Stroessner) continued the same violent policies.
Crossfire is a form of staged extrajudicial killings in Bangladesh, often used to refer to the death of a person by gunshot while under the custody of a law enforcement agency.
A local policeman, trying to stop them, got into a heated argument and was fired on before the APC drove away with the detainees.
Hampton and the Panthers also used Clements's parish, Holy Angels Catholic Church in Chicago (now the parish of Our Lady of Africa), as a refuge in times of particular surveillance or pursuit from the police.
Nura Luluyeva (Chechen: Нура Лулуева; 1960 – 2000) was a Chechen woman who was kidnapped and murdered by a Russian death squad in 2000.
Da Costa began making contact with some of the student"s leaders that were anxious to return to Paraguay to make the revolution through the means of violence due to the lack of political rights and the apathy of the traditional parties of the opposition.
After the dictatorship, President Tabaré Vázquez appointed Cores political secretary of the Broad Front.
Duff enlisted into Captain John Williams' Company in Cahokia and rose to the rank of sergeant in the Illinois Regiment.
Manhunt and amnesty First amnesty Gana lived in the jungle cohabiting with wild animals until Monday, 31 August 2015 when he first appeared in public to embrace the amnesty granted by Samuel Ortom, Governor of Benue State for criminals in the state.
During World War I, Kirpichnikov fought on the Austrian front, was wounded in the hand and after a hospital stay ended up in Petrograd.
The applicants' complaints were directed at the failure of the authorities to appreciate and act on what they claim was a series of clear warning signs that Paget-Lewis represented a serious threat to the physical safety of Ahmet Osman and his family.
Exiled as a critic of Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship, he was targeted for assassination by Operation Condor.
At 9 o´clock, part of the twelve combatants who would be involved in the operation gathered at the Carupá station.
Twenty-one prisoners were taken from the kiosk, placed against the wall, and shot without trial on the orders of the French Capitaine Marcel Dingeon, who was Abbeville's deputy commander.
This chapel was considered the most beautiful in the Philippines and had few rivals in the District, although the Brothers would regret about the chapel's limited size.
Some time later in 1940 there was a show trial in Skidel of 15 individuals including three women, two Tartars and two Polish Russians, who aided the Polish Army which briefly retook Skidel on 19 September.
On 20 July 1920, Canaris became admiral's staff officer at the Marinestation der Ostsee (Baltic Naval Station) command.
Leigh had been recommended for a commission and was commissioned pilot officer and allocated service number 46462 on 30 September 1941 (with effect from 2 August 1941).
When the association was banned by King Alexander's dictatorship, he reformed it together with Ivan Merz under the name "Crusaders" ("Križari").
Jungle justice (also known as mob justice or street justice) is a form of extrajudicial punishment carried out by angry mobs or vigilante groups against individuals accused of crimes.
The details of his capture and execution were only revealed later that year in a diary found on a Japanese soldier.
25781/94) is a case raised by Cyprus against Turkey in 1994 and decided on merits by the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights in 2001.
Other countries implicated in the archives include Peru (which joined Operation Condor in 1978 along with Ecuador), Venezuela, and Colombia, which cooperated, to various degrees, by providing intelligence information that had been requested by the security services of the Southern Cone countries.
He resigned from the Bush administration in 2004, and has since run a consulting firm and advised Republican presidential candidates.
The names of these victims were in most cases never established, as the captured Jews were not entered in the Pawiak's records at all.
Anthony Ross Henzell Hayter (20 May 1920 – 6 April 1944) was a Royal Air Force Vickers Wellington bomber pilot who was taken prisoner during the Second World War.
Aliyev was the founder of the Priboi and Vatan radio stations and director of the TNT-Makhachkala television network and was known for his anti-Wahhabist views, which were reflected in his radio and TV stations.
Awards Almada received several awards for his courage and work, including the prize "Antorcha a la libertad" of the Libre Foundation in Asunción in 1999 and the Right Livelihood Award in 2002.
As concerns Pretty's right to respect for private life under Article 8, the Court considered that the interference in this case might be justified as "necessary in a democratic society" for the protection of the rights of others.
The only reason that God allowed us this extra ration of life is so we can make life hell for the Hun...
The unmasking of Kunze happened by accident; he had been in the habit of passing notes to the American doctor at the camp during sick call.
The British White Paper of 1939 allowed only 75,000 Jews to immigrate to Mandatory Palestine over five years, and no more after that unless local Arabs gave their permission.
He was subsequently imprisoned for this act and bishops Akšamović and Bonefačić were brought in by the authorities for questioning.
On one occasion he was wounded in combat and, on recovery, he resumed operational flying with renewed zest.
The new group became well known by the epithet La Cagoule ('The Hood'), a term that was first applied by Charles Maurras and Maurice Pujo of Action Française, as the group's tactics reminded them of the American Ku Klux Klan; the name was subsequently embraced by the press.
As of May 2022, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs estimates 6,036 Palestinian fatalities and 272 Israeli fatalities as a result of the conflict since 2008.
This new imprisonment of Ananías Maidana would last twenty years, and would mean practically a lifetime of suffering and torture for him.
Juan Manuel de Rosas, the powerful governor of Buenos Aires, contended that this violated the Federal Pact.
In 2019, Congress amended ATA with the Promoting Security and Justice for Victims of Terrorism Act of 2019 (PSJVTA) which specifically created a cause of action against the PLO and PA.
On 7 June, while the Attuans were returning home from church, 1,170 Japanese soldiers attacked them and rounded them up.
Reich Minister of Justice Franz Gurtner was in contact with Reichsführer-SS Himmler to mitigate the Postenpflicht a bit, but he was unable to accomplish anything.
He sent the prisoners to Tarragona or any other town, and in the middle of the road, the escort that was chosen for that purpose, killed them with bayonets, alleging that he had tried to escape.
40 Squadron SAAF which was then back in South Africa, the squadron's personnel were flown to Egypt to join the Desert Air Force.
The police, clarifying that it is not work-related, said that the motive was allegedly a land dispute.
South Sudan, located in northeast Africa, has seen the number of slayings of journalists jump since the start of the South Sudanese Civil War in 2013.
On 5 October 1975, Montoneros members hijacked a civilian airliner bound for Corrientes from Buenos Aires.
Matsievskyi's territorial defense forces' comrades reporting his group of four soldiers went missing on 30 December 2022, following a failed counter attack on the outskirts of Soledar.
5 Group RAF, Bomber Command in a bomber role, its first operation took place while the squadron was still forming, when a single Hampden attacked Frankfurt at night on 29 August.
As the man is heard saying "Slava Ukraini" ("Glory to Ukraine"), salvos of automatic weapons from multiple sides are heard and seen shooting the man, who collapses.
However, a few days later, Akram's family released four recorded mobile phone calls between Akram and his daughter and wife before he died from a bullet wound.
On the night of 4 September, Al-Gashey met for dinner with the other members of the strike team, along with a senior Black September operative (believed to be Abu Daoud), who briefed them on their upcoming mission and drove with them in taxis to the Olympic Village.
The scandal The scandal followed after the killings were condemned by Edvard Kocbek in an interview that appeared as a special edition of the journal Zaliv; it was written by two Slovene writers from Trieste, Boris Pahor and Alojz Rebula, and published in Italy.
The film 'Chronicle of an Escape' (2006) directed by Adrián Caetano recreates the true story of the escape from this center by Claudio Tamburrini, Daniel Rusomano, Guillermo Fernández, and Carlos García.
Awards Reportedly Mentioned in despatches for bravery as a prisoner of war (none of the other relevant decorations then available could be awarded posthumously).
Bashar al-Assad took his father's policy further and considered any voice questioning anything about Syria's political, economic, social, or otherwise policies should be monitored and when needed, detained and accused of weakening national empathy.
This means that during Kutschera's tenure, between 270 and 300 people were being killed in Warsaw weekly.
One such prayer reads: Thy martyr, Yevgeny, O Lord, in his sufferings hath received an incorruptible crown from Thee, our God, for having Thy strength he hath brought down his torturers, hath defeated the powerless insolence of demons.
Government forces took victims by plane or helicopter out to sea, dropping them to their deaths in planned disappearances.
At the initiative of his local pastor, Father Bešar, he then enrolled in the classical eight-year secondary school in Ljubljana, during which time he lived in Our Lady's Student Dormitory (Slovene: Marijanišče).
McElduff and other soldiers were on reconnaissance, for General Clark, observing the British movements, near the Mississippi River.
Background The events The revolt of 18 September 1939 was organized by the Communist Party of West Belarus which was outlawed by Poland in 1938.
2010 Malik Mohammad Arif, a Samaa TV camera operator, was killed by a suicide bomber on 16 April 2010.
See also Displaced persons camps in post–World War II Europe Jewish Legion Jewish Brigade Bricha Haganah Sh'erit ha-Pletah Nakam Gmul References Bibliography Beckman, Morris (1999).
'Great Escape' For the Great Escape operation Pohe was one of the tunnellers and one of the 76 men who escaped the prison camp on the night of 24–25 March 1944, in the escape now famous as "the Great Escape".
More and more recaptured airmen arrived at Sagan civil jail until they were moved by truck, to be held at Görlitz prison where eventually the total reached 35.
It was further noted that no martial law and no state of emergency had been declared in Chechnya, and no derogation has been entered under Article 15 of the Convention.
The interview was titled Edvard Kocbek: pričevalec našega časa (Edvard Kocbek: Witness to Our Time) and served as a pretext to launch a massive denigration campaign against Kocbek by the state-controlled Yugoslav media.
He emigrated in accordance with the wishes of his father, in 1883 from Zweibrücken (Germany) to Riga (Latvia).
He met his wife, Janet Manjeri Acoyo, daughter of Lasto Olum, and Abwoyo P'Wali of Palabek, Kitgum (Northern Uganda), a teacher who had qualified at Kabwangazi Teacher Training College, and they married in 1937 at the parish church of St Philips in Gulu town.
Using this kind of weapon in a populated area, outside wartime and without prior evacuation of the civilians, was impossible to reconcile with the degree of caution expected from a law-enforcement body in a democratic society.
The investigation of the disappearance of journalist Dzmitry Zavadski in 2000 has also yielded no results.
For twelve days and nights they marched through the snow following the railway lines eastwards past Liegnitz and Breslau remaining at large longer than almost all of the escapers.
While Vizetelly was killed at El Obeid, he was with not with Hicks' party and was outside the square.
The body of Karen Petrosyan was repatriated 2 months after his death, on 10 October 2014, in an operation facilitated by the International Committee of the Red Cross.
Robert William Scherrer (August 21, 1935 – November 15, 1995) was an FBI agent posted in Latin America in the 1970s.
While covering the struggles between Houthi militias and Saudi Arabian forces there have been multiple journalists who have lost their lives in 2015.
During Chile's transition to democracy, as one of the most important figures of the Pinochet regime, Romo was sought by prosecutors and found living in São Paulo with his wife and five children in June 1992.
Ivo Protulipac (4 June 1899 – 31 January 1946) was a Croatian lawyer and Catholic activist, assassinated in 1946, reportedly by the UDBA (Yugoslav secret police).
See also Censorship in Venezuela Mass media in Venezuela List of journalists killed in Guatemala List of journalists killed in Honduras List of journalists killed in Mexico == References ==
The international pressure on Yugoslavia, especially the intervention of the German writer Heinrich Böll, was probably the main element that protected Kocbek from judicial prosecution.
In 1931, at the age of sixteen-and-a-half, he passed the flying tests for the Class A Pilot's Licence, which could not be issued until he reached the age of seventeen.
Another potential connection is with the slogan "nunca +" (never again, no more), popularly used by the human rights movement during the military dictatorship.
He lived in Jerusalem until the 1967 Six-Day War, when he was displaced after Israel captured the eastern portion of the city.
Kierath was one of the 50 escapers who had been listed by SS-Gruppenführer Arthur Nebe to be killed, so was amongst those executed and murdered by the Gestapo.
The Tiger Squad (Arabic: فرقة النمر, Firqat el-Nemr), also known as UNIT 1103, and officially called the Rapid Intervention Force (Arabic: قوة التدخل السريع, Quat al-Tadakhul al-Sarie), is a protective security unit under the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, Mohammed bin Salman.
Harold John Milford (16 August 1914 – 6 April 1944), was a British Douglas Boston medium bomber observer who was taken prisoner during the Second World War.
On 1 May 1994, journalists Bryan Brinton and Francis William Tomasic were killed, and novelist William T.
Judgment McCann and Others v United Kingdom was the first case before the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) to concern Article 2 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR), which protects the right to life.
The most brutal thing that was previously published is footage from the summer of 2022, when a man in a Russian military uniform cuts off the genitals of a man in a Ukrainian military uniform and then kills him.
Clandestine detention center in the Lebensohn and Don Uva area, according to complaints made to the National Secretariat for Human Rights during 2004.
Following VE Day, however, he was amongst those individuals almost completely forgotten, as the Canadian people were anxious to put the War behind them.
in collaboration with Chilean secret police DINA, and the bombing of Cubana Flight 455 which killed 73 people.
He became deeply interested in modern art and purchased paintings by Da Silva, Max Ernst and Edouard Cortes, his collection was stolen from the family home at Rueil-Malmaison near Paris during the Second World War.
Awards Mentioned in despatches for conspicuous gallantry as a prisoner of war (none of the other relevant decorations then available could be awarded posthumously).
They claim that the common people are tired of the constant murders and mourning and label the gangs as terrorists.
El Silencio (Tigre) It operated on an island in Tigre originally intended as a rest area for members of the Archdiocese of Buenos Aires.
22947 & 8/93, ECHR 2000-X, was a decision by the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) on the extent of the right to life.
Judge Alejandro Madrid was thus able to indict him for the kidnappings and tortures at Villa Grimaldi.
Baudricourt agreed to a third meeting with Joan in February 1429, around the time the English captured an Armagnac relief convoy at the Battle of the Herrings during the Siege of Orléans.
Since the early 1990s, Russia's media monitors have recorded every violent or suspicious death that came to their attention.
He was accused of financial irregularities, murder of his former lab assistant, and scientific fraud, and brought to Buchenwald and Dachau concentration camps before being executed.
After she saw the CNN footage of her son she appealed to prosecutors, who opened a criminal case in July 2001, 17 months after his disappearance.
The Gestapo and German police cordoned off entire apartment blocks, detaining all suspicious individuals.
Brian Herbert Evans (14 February 1920 – 31 March 1944), was a Royal Air Force bomber pilot who was taken prisoner during the Second World War.
The archaic verb linch, to beat severely with a pliable instrument, to chastise or to maltreat, has been proposed as the etymological source; but there is no evidence that the word has survived into modern times, so this claim is also considered implausible.
Khotami had been the anchor of a weekly TV program that reported on drug trafficking, corruption and organized crime.
He lived on a pension provided by the Palestinian Authority and gave interviews to Aljazeera and other Arab and international media outlets about his life, the Munich events, and Palestinian politics.
Among the leaders arrested was Pedro Albizu Campos, These leaders were charged with having "conspired to overthrow" the U.S.
Several hours of torture would follow, often including the removal of the genitalia, hands, tongue, rectum and teeth.
The suspected gunman was arrested in early 2024 in Dipolog, Zamboanga del Norte; his two alleged accomplices had been arrested earlier in Sapang Dalaga.
Jordanian warplanes bombed ISIL positions in Mosul, killing 55 ISIL fighters, including a senior commander.
He was amongst the 47 murdered officers named in the British and Commonwealth press when the story became public knowledge on or about 19–20 May 1944 The Glasgow Herald of 19 May 1944 published an early list naming several officers including Hake.
By administrative means (в административном порядке, "v administrativnom poryadke") was a term used in the Soviet Union when some actions which would normally require a court decision were left to the decision of executive bodies (administration), i.e.
His aircraft was hit by light anti-aircraft fire from German Naval units and he had to "ditch" (crash land at sea) 40 miles off Rotterdam where two of his crew of six drowned when they were unable to get to the life boat.
Sparks watched as about 50 German prisoners captured by the 157th Infantry Regiment were confined in an area that had been used for storing coal.
Located in the La Reina commune of Santiago, this facility was operated by a subgroup within DINA known as Brigade Lautaro.
Life Heinrich Koenen was born in the Konigsberg district of Berlin, the son of Communist Reichstag deputy Wilhelm Koenen.
In 2023, nearly 75% of journalists killed worldwide were Palestinians who had died in Israel's war in Gaza.
The photo was published in Australian newspapers and in Life magazine but was thought to depict Flight Lieutenant Bill Newton, who had been captured in Salamaua, Papua New Guinea, and beheaded on 29 March 1943.
Evans managed to get the damaged bomber home and crash landed at Lenham, Kent at 0450 hours; three of the crew survived alive but one died.
Üngör, Uğur; Polatel, Mehmet (2011), Confiscation and Destruction: The Young Turk Seizure of Armenian Property, London: Continuum International External links "ՄԵԾ ԵՂԵՌՆԻ ՆԱՀԱՏԱԿ ԻԳՆԱՏԻՈՍ ԱՐՔ.
Events leading to a massacre In 1931, the U.S.-appointed Governor of Puerto Rico, Theodore Roosevelt Jr.
Croatian photographer Pavo Urban was killed by a shell fragment during a bombing in Dubrovnik on 6 December 1991.
Nearly eight weeks after the massacre, on 29 October, Lufthansa Flight 615 was hijacked by two Black September members, who demanded the release of the three Munich survivors.
The organization further claimed that many of the murdered journalists had been critical of Russian President Putin.
The United Nations Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights condemned the killing of Palestinian journalists in the Gaza Strip, including two Al Jazeera television reporters, by Israel.
Kennedy II stated that the manuals confirmed that "taxpayer dollars have been used to train military officers in executions, extortion, beatings and other acts of intimidation – all clear civil rights abuses which have no place in civilized society." Rep.
Documentary In 2011, a documentary titled El Mocito ("The Young Butler") was released, recounting the story of Jorgelino Vergara Bravo, who worked at the Simón Bolívar Barracks and witnessed the horrors that occurred there.
The de Mohrenschildts testified that on April 14, 1963, just before Easter Sunday, they were visiting the Oswalds at their new apartment and had brought them a toy Easter bunny to give to their child.
During the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, foreign war correspondents, professional journalists, and citizen journalists have been killed since the beginning of the conflict in 1948 or have died as a result of their reporting.
This form of street justice is typically a response to perceived failures in formal justice systems, particularly in regions where law enforcement is seen as corrupt, ineffective, or absent.
Apparently not; and at the very least, a clarification or precise confirmation from the authorities should be expected at this point.
Description of the estate The house was divided in two floors and a basement and it was surrounded by a garden.
After Croatian independence, Protulipac's remains were exhumed and he was returned to Croatia and buried in Zagreb's Mirogoj cemetery.
Tolbert Sr., national chairman of the ruling True Whig Party, he grew up in Bensonville, attended Zion Praise Baptist Church, graduated from Liberia College, and became involved in politics relatively early in life.
Also included in a separate form are those journalists whose whereabouts are unknown or whose disappearance is a result of their reporting and the period of their disappearance, including those cases where it is unknown as to whether or not they are casualties.
Wäckerle was instructed by Heinrich Himmler, then-Munich chief of police and Obergruppenführer of the SS, to draw up a set of regulations for discipline in the camp.
Members of intelligence agencies like DINA and the Joint Command attempted to extract information from victims by threatening their children and loved ones.
The 'Great Escape' Gunn was one of 76 men who escaped the prison camp on the night of 24/25 March 1944 in the "Great Escape".
A motion to this effect, opposed by Lynch, was narrowly defeated, whereupon O'Connor and others left the meeting to set up a separate GHQ.
On 13 January 1996, Rodionov was deployed to the Caucasus Special Border District, serving in the Nazran Border Unit (No.
In 2019, amid the Crisis in Bolivarian Venezuela, the government of Nicolás Maduro was accused by a UN human rights report of using death squads to conduct thousands of extrajudicial executions.
On 4 February 2021 Iranian diplomat Asadollah Asadi and three other Iranian nationals were convicted in Antwerp for plotting to bomb a 2018 rally of National Council of Resistance of Iran in France.
Wagner, found that Pickett and Dawson had been murdered by the guerillas, each with gunshot wounds in the head.
Bin Laden organized a plot to assassinate Clinton by bombing the presidential motorcade as it traveled through Manila.
In 1935 he graduated from Buwalasi Teacher Training College in Mbale, after which he was posted to Gulu Primary School in Northern Uganda.
Władysław Kowalski (17 April 1897 – 21 September 1939) was a Polish footballer who played as a forward for Wisła Kraków and WKS Warsaw.
Having got clear of the camp Langford was in a party of officers who fought their way through the snow and bitter cold walking as fast as they could, they kept pushing onwards despite the weather and survived freezing nights outdoors only to be recaptured on 28 March 1944.
The 1975 Zaliv Scandal was a political scandal in SFR Yugoslavia that began when the summary killing of 12,000 Slovene Home Guard war prisoners by the Yugoslav Communist regime, which occurred in May and June 1945, was publicly discussed and condemned for the first time after World War II in 1975.
During their duty, they stopped an ambulance car transporting weapons and driven by Chechen Republic of Ichkeria brigade general Ruslan Khaikhoroev.
In the late 1970s, Pinochet allegedly ordered for the mass graves containing hundreds of murdered detainees to be unearthed and for the bodies to be either thrown into the sea or burned.
Prized for its colourful foliage, which provides both summer and winter interest, it is widely available commercially.
The 10–16 cm white flowers that emerge from early to late spring, while beautiful and thick with a citrus-lemon fragrance, are prone to browning if subjected to frost.
Sunthorn Phu, Thailand’s eminent bard of the Early Bangkok Era, mentioned the plant in many of his poems.
It has been introduced and naturalized in some parts of Europe, including the Czech Republic and former Yugoslavia.
Endemic to Brazil, it is an evergreen shrub that becomes semi-deciduous in cooler areas and grows up to 1.8 meters (6 feet) in height.
The tree produces a fleshy, light green toxic fruit; once the fruit splits, the seeds are consumed by birds and other wildlife.
It is propagated by dividing the roots or cutting off a top and placing it upside down in a glass of water.
External links Russian website with several images of the iris Photo album Archived 2016-10-22 at the Wayback Machine Media related to Iris camillae at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Iris camillae at Wikispecies
There is a prominent, dark brown gland below the lowest pinna and sometimes a gland at the base of the uppermost pinnae.
Description The Weeping Higan Cherry grows to a height 20 to 30 feet (6 to 9 m) with a spread of 15 to 25 feet (5 to 8 m).
Spiraea salicifolia, the bridewort, willow-leaved meadowsweet, spice hardhack, or Aaron's beard, is a species of flowering plant in the family Rosaceae.
Very moist fields will have increased rates of infection as the amount of moisture makes it easy for the zoospores to move through the soil and infect tubers.
This chorological shift may possibly be due to climatic change and the migration of mountain flora by way of river courses.
"Blue-green" mealybugs are a group of related mealybug genera whose insides, during adulthood, are usually of the color which gives them their collective name.
Cultivation When grown in a garden it may require light pruning right after blooming, but otherwise plants can be left alone in fall and early spring.
The leaves stay glossy green throughout the summer and into the fall when they turn a vivid yellow before leaving the tree bare in winter.
External links Encyclopædia Britannica Clemson Home & Garden Medline Plus: Dieffenbachia Botanical Online: Dieffenbachia Speedup Video – Dieffenbachia growth
In the middle of the falls, is a dense, row of short hairs called the 'beard', which is dark yellow, or bright yellow with purple red tips.
Description The plant has aromatic glossy, green, round leaves, which show a deep purple color in the center sometimes and tend to trail, reaching a height of between 10 and 30 cm and extends around 60 cm.
Juveniles take 5–7 years to flower and set seed, whereafter the populations are ready to burn again.
A feature of the whekī is the spreading underground rhizomes which can create dense groves, making it one of the most common tree ferns in New Zealand forests.
The flowers display in a sequence from the lowest point, those following are in a progression of development.
The species has long falcate (sickle-shaped) or ensiform (sword-shaped) leaves, a long thick stem and large fragrant flowers that come in shades of purple brown, reddish-black, black-brown, dark brown, dark lilac or dark purple.
Distribution The species is found in coastal areas of Spain, Italy, Croatia and Albania In Italy it is found on the coast of Tuscany and western Sicily and on the islands of Capri and Li Galli.
The deciduous, elegant and compact multi-stemmed small flowering tree or large shrub, slowly attaining a height of 20 ft (6.1 m) and somewhat wider at maturity, is hardy to USDA Zone 4.
They are added to spreads such as butter or fruit preserves, as well as to vinegar, marinades, and dressings.
'White Rose' was an open pollinated seedling of ‘Ballerina.' Magnolia × loebneri is susceptible to magnolia scale, just like other saucer, star, and lily magnolias.
Violet species occupy a diverse array of habitats, from bogs (Viola lanceolata) to dry hill prairies (V.
More than ten subpopulations have been observed, and the species' estimated extent of occurrence is 2,750 to 3,000 km2.
integrifolia, but differs in having longer, narrower leaves, and follicles that are more deeply embedded in the old flower spike.
Etymology The species was originally called Nasturtium indicum ("Indian nasturtium") but the plant is not related to the true Nasturtium genus.
The pruning preserves the flower-bearing shoots of the preceding year, while keeping the tree low enough to allow the easy gathering of the fruit.
Some individuals have leaves with a surface that is scabrous (rough) or papillate (bearing minute, nipple-shaped protuberances).
Conservation It is range and habitat is a small region, and the plant was listed by the IUCN as 'rare'.
The flowers are fragrant, cup-shaped, 15–25 cm broad, with nine thick, creamy white to pink tepals; stamens ca.
Human use The whekī is quite hardy and tolerant to sun and some wind, but is best suited to a site with partial shade and minimal wind.
If more than half of the crown is defoliated, most hardwoods will produce a second flush of foliage by midsummer.
Ligularia przewalskii, also called Przewalski's leopardplant and Przewalski's golden ray, is a species of perennial herbaceous plant in the genus Ligularia and the family Asteraceae, native to damp places in Mongolia and Northern China.
In 1977, 47 species of the irises in the Oncocyclus section were analysed, and it was found to have a chromosome count of 2n=20.
Port Melbourne: Elsevier Australia - Inkata Imprint, copyright Forestry Commission of New South Wales (published 1989-12-01).
Growth Philodendron adamantinum is a shrub that grows up to 5 feet (1.5 m) tall, and its adventitious roots can spread 33 feet (10 m) in all directions.
sibiricus which were found in the most eastern part of the Western Sayan and in the upper Naryn River.
The tip of the leaf is usually blunt, often slightly notched at the tip, but can be pointed, particularly on strong-growing shoots on young trees.
Growing to about 6–12 inches (15–30 centimetres) tall, it makes a mass of pink, purple and white fragrant four petalled (cruciform) flowers.
Once valued because of its long, straight trunk, its current rarity and vulnerable status mean its wood is now rarely used; it is also sacred to some indigenous Mapuche.
These hosts include tobacco, zucchini, cucumbers, carrots, French bean, tomatoes, potatoes, and tulips.
It is noted for its centre turning red when it's about to flower, from where the common name (blushing) is derived.
These have been given similar common names, portmanteaus that combine the '-quat' ending of kumquat with an indication of the other parent citrus.
"Bromeliaceae da Mata Atlântica Brasileira: lista de espécies, distribuição e conservação" [Bromeliaceae of the brazilian Atlantic Forest: checklist, distribution and conservation].
It has also invaded the Kurulukele Forest Reserve in Kegalla, Sri Lanka, and other places where it has been planted as a decorative plant, or to hold steep banks along roads.
"Phylogenetic Analysis of Mealybugs (Hemiptera: Coccoidae: Pseudococcidae) Based on DNA sequences from Three Nuclear Genes, and a Review of the Higher Classification".
Distribution and habitat Coronidium newcastlianum is found along the Great Dividing Range in the Einasleigh Uplands bioregions of Queensland where it grows in eucalypt woodlands on rocky hills.
The palm's trunk grows to 9 m (30 ft) tall, or more sometimes, and is 20–25 cm (8–10 in) in diameter, when free of the leaf base fibers that tend to remain for a good while.
Malathion, methoxychlor, phosmet, trichlorfon, and synthetic pyrethroids (permethrin) are also registered with the EPA, but are used infrequently.
Distribution The species occurs naturally in parts of southern and central Africa, including South Africa, Eswatini, Mozambique, Malawi, Tanzania, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Angola.
Convolvulus cneorum, the silverbush or shrubby bindweed, is a species of flowering plant in the family Convolvulaceae, which contains many plants described as "bindweed".
It has remained in comparative obscurity until recently, when its qualities as a garden plant were at last realized.
The rose was awarded the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit in 1993 and inducted into the Rose Hall of Fame in 2009 as "World's Favourite Rose".
Haworthia zantneriana is a species of the genus Haworthia in the family Asphodelaceae, subfamily Asphodeloideae, endemic to the southern parts of the Western Cape and Eastern Cape Provinces in South Africa.
Yellow Bells have a similar nutrient profile to a potato but have 50 percent more protein, six times as much calcium, and nearly 30 times more iron.
The flowers are solitary yellow cups formed from four overlapping petals, 5–7 cm across, vaguely resembling the unrelated tulip; the two sepals underneath typically fall away as the flower opens.
Lilium speciosum contains phenolic glycosides, such as 6′-O-feruloylsucrose and (25R,26R)-26-methoxyspirost-5-en-3β-ol 3-O-α-l-rhamnopyranosyl-(1→2)-β-d-glucopyranoside, and steroidal saponins.
In the wild, plants are often half-buried, leaving only the tips of the leaves visible above the soil.
The flowers are grouped in panicles (with many branching stems), hence the specific epithet paniculata.
The taste and color of nectar widely vary between different species of flower; consequently, honey may vary in color and taste depending on the species of flower.
Virus taxonomy : classification and nomenclature of viruses : ninth report of the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses.
During his historic journey, Meriwether Lewis collected a specimen while passing through Idaho in 1806.
A deciduous tuberous geophyte reaching 0.5 m (20 in), it is typically found in scrublands and forests at elevations from 1,300 to 2,400 m (4,300 to 7,900 ft).
It is also a popular ornamental tree in parks and large gardens, and along with the cultivar 'Golden Spreader' has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
The cultivar 'The Rocket' is a recipient of the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Description Jasmine can be either deciduous or evergreen, and can be erect, spreading, or climbing shrubs and vines.
It has inflated, green spathes (leaves of the flower bud), that are 10 cm (4 in) long, and the perianth tube is about 3 centimetres (1.2 in) in length.
Erythronium dens-canis, the dog's-tooth-violet is a bulbous herbaceous perennial flowering plant in the family Liliaceae.
The species was first described by Carl Linnaeus in his landmark 1758 10th edition of Systema Naturae.
Haworthia retusa, Haworthia bayeri, Haworthia springbokvlakensis, Haworthia mirabilis, Haworthia emelyae and Haworthia magnifica).
This species is variable and has multiple different regional forms: Flowers appear in September and October.
Distribution and habitat Euonymus alatus′s native distribution extends from northeastern Asia to central China.
Calathea louisae) is a species of plant belonging to the genus Goeppertia, native to Rio de Janeiro state of southeast Brazil but cultivated in other places as an ornamental.
Hybrids and cultivars In 1897, an illustration in The Garden magazine of 31 July, showed a border in Mr Van Tubergen's nursery with 400 flowers, which are the results of 3 seasons of cultivation of the irises.
These flowering trees are beautifully colored and are often planted both privately and commercially as ornamentals.
Host plants Buddleja – Buddleia, butterfly bush Himantoglossum hircinum – lizard orchid Scrophularia – figworts Verbascum – mulleins References Bibliography Heath, John; A.
Its leaves are usually 10–50 mm long and 5–30 mm wide, and may vary in size, texture, colour and margin.
Zoospores are motile asexual spores that can move through soil water through the use of their flagella.
The conventional way this fruit is eaten is when the outer casing is still unripe while the seeds are eaten as the fruit.
These hybrids combine some of the edibility properties of the more typical Citrus species with the cold hardiness of the kumquats, often being referred to as cold hardy citrus.
Taxonomy The species was first described by a Scottish botanist David Don in 1834 from the type specimen: This singularly beautiful species of Anigozanthos was raised in the garden at Whitmore Lodge, Berks., the seat of Robert Mangles, Esq.
The leaves resemble those of the closely related Eschscholzia, being finely divided into many gray-green linear lobes.
This type of grassland has been reduced to a fraction of its pristine range by forces such as overgrazing and the channelization of water.
For example, TNV has a high level of resistance to heat and chemical agents, as well as to degradation due to aging.
The origin of the popular English language name "monkey puzzle" lies in its early cultivation in Britain c.
Taxonomy For a general description of the taxonomic and nomenclature confusion, see Paghat's Garden, especially for the relationship between T.
The trees are dioecious, and the fruit is a hard-shelled bean in heavy, woody, thick-walled pods filled with sweet, thick, gooey pulp.
Many sources claim that roasting the seeds for a certain length of time can reduce or eliminate the cytisine thought to be in them, but this is not based on scientific evidence.
Another common (but somewhat ambiguous) name is "yellow bells", since it has a bell-shaped yellow flower.
The leaves that it produces in the spring are large, up to 16" (40 cm) long, among the largest of all colchicum species.
They are part of the necklace that a plant deity wears in a vase found in the Templo Mayor, although it could also be T.
The heavily clustered figs suggest fecundity, and some trees in East Africa have been venerated as sacred shrines in animist practices.
yamasakura, and cultivars of Sato-zakura group such as 'Fugenzo' and 'Mikurumakaishi' began to appear.
Wilt disease caused by a particular nucleopolyhedrovirus (LdNPV) that is specific to the gypsy moth is its most devastating natural disease, causing a dramatic collapse of outbreak populations by killing both the larvae and pupae.
However officially according to the World Checklist and The Plant List it is considered Narcissus cernuus.
Ecology Ruffed lemurs are a known pollinator of this plant and given the size and structure of the inflorescences, as well as the lemur's selectivity, method of feeding, and long muzzle, this relationship is thought to have coevolved.
The specific epithet divaricata is from Latin and refers to the wide-spreading branchlets of the flower panicle.
Codiaeum variegatum, commonly known as croton or variegated croton amongst many other names, is a species of plant in the Euphorbiaceae family.
In Japanese, fugen refers to Samantabhadra and zo refers to an elephant, and the origin of the name comes from the fact that the two pistils, which look like leaves, were likened to the tusks of a white elephant on which Samantabhadra rides.
Olive growing in the United States is primarily concentrated in warmer regions like California, Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, Georgia, and Florida.
Leaflets are 5 to 15 cm long, 1.5 to 6 cm wide, hairy and leathery, and usually not with a sharp point.
Boea is a genus of plants in the family Gesneriaceae, with species originating from Australia, China, India, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Polynesia, Solomon Islands, Thailand, Papua New Guinea, Indonesia, Nepal, Bhutan, Cambodia, Vietnam and Laos.
In 1969, Albert Smith transferred the species to Tasmannia based on its chromosome number of 13, compared to 43 in most others in Drimys.
Amberboa moschata (common name sweetsultan) is a Southwest Asian species of plants in the family Asteraceae.
In the temperate zones of Europe many of the hybrid large flowering sorts of gladiolus can be pollinated by small well-known wasps.
amazonica has longer leaf blades ((20–)30–40(–50) cm × (10–)12–18 cm), subulate free filaments (2.8–3.4 mm wide at the base), and staminal cups (11.2–13.8 mm long to the apex of teeth) longer than free filaments (6.5–8(–10) mm long).
The cultivars 'Compactus' and 'Fire Ball' have gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
The leaves are dark green, elliptic toothed and 2–4 cm long, with irregularly lobed margins, and turn to yellow and reddish tones in autumn.
The glossy, evergreen foliage forms a billowing mound, with many fragrant, pure white flowers in tight clusters for several weeks during spring and early summer.
Description Magnolia campbellii is a medium-sized to large deciduous tree growing to 30 m, rarely to 45 m, tall, with smooth grey bark.
These flowers are variously coloured, ranging from pink to reddish or light purple with white, contrasting markings, or white to cream or orange to red.
It varies little except in northern New South Wales and southern Queensland, where some populations appear to be intermediate with B.
Ecology Pests and diseases The tree has considerable variability in resistance to Dutch elm disease; for example, trees from north-western and north-eastern China exhibit significantly higher tolerance than those from central and southern China.
Though Swingle had speculated that the Meiwa kumquat was a hybrid of oval and round kumquats, the genomic analysis suggested instead that the round kumquat was an oval/Meiwa hybrid.
The fruit is a dehiscent, two-chambered capsule, black/brown, densely hairy and about 35 mm (1.4 in) wide and long.
quadrans Hopper Distribution of the subspecies is as far north as Shark Bay, variation in habit and structure of the subspecies is otherwise discrete.
Cultivation A number of geranium species are cultivated for horticultural use and for pharmaceutical products.
In cultivation, it is preferable to keep a cold temperature, but more than 2 °C (36 °F) This plant has won the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.
Magnolia 'Butterflies' is a hybrid Magnolia that is the offspring of a cross between the cucumbertree Magnolia acuminata (seed parent) and the Yulan magnolia Magnolia denudata (pollen parent).
The hindwing of the male is whitish, with dark veins and cellspot, becoming diffusely fuscous along the termen; in the female it is darker throughout.
It occurs on various wild and garden forms of anemone, and has particular commercial importance on Anemone coronaria grown for cut flowers, for example in France and Italy.
Some have been assigned separate species names, though there is no agreement on the validity of these names.
Achillea is a reference to the Greek hero Achilles, who was trained to use herbs by his mentor, the centaur Chiron.
The species is reportedly naturalised in Florida, Chiapas, Central America, Queensland, and much of the West Indies.
Some studies indicate the effectiveness of the latter in the prevention of coronary artery disease, heart attacks, immune response, old age and cancer.
Meissner divided Brown's Banksia verae, which had been renamed Eubanksia by Stephan Endlicher in 1847, into four series based on leaf properties.
References External links Viburnum leaf beetle on the UF / IFAS Featured Creatures Web site [1] PEST ALERT: Viburnum Leaf Beetle [2] Penn State College of Agriculture Gardeners' World Bugguide.net.
Miscanthus nepalensis, Himalayan fairy grass, is a species of flowering plant in the grass family Poaceae, native to mountain slopes in China (Sichuan, Xizang, Yunnan), Bhutan, India, Myanmar and Nepal, and introduced in Malaysia.
Their salmon-colored, broadly egg-shaped to almost circular corolla lobes are narrowed or rounded at their tip and have a length of 2 to 4 millimeters and are 1.5 to 3 millimeters wide.
They are slightly succulent, fleshy with a waxy glossy surface, 3–5 centimetres (1.2–2.0 in) wide and 3.5–13 centimetres (1.4–5.1 in) long, with a petiole of about 1–1.5 centimetres (0.39–0.59 in).
The long-lasting, capitate-pyramidal inflorescences, branched at the base and simple at the apex, are composed of spike-like inflorescences.
Phytochemistry The seeds are very poisonous, containing erythroidine, a powerful muscle relaxant; erythroresin, an emetic; coralin; and erythric acid.
Iceland poppies are amongst the best poppies for cutting, as they last for several days in the vase.
In the mid-seventh-century Lombard laws, a composition of one solidi is set for felling a chestnut tree (or, also, hazel, pear or apple) belonging to another person (Edictum Rothari, No.
A western form, inhabiting shale rocks near Oudtshoorn, is sometimes considered a separate species, Haworthia truteriorum.
Native to central and southern Chile and western Argentina, it is the hardiest species in the conifer genus Araucaria.
It is a native of Eastern Cape Province, South Africa, and found in arid shrublands, most commonly on ridges and slopes with shallow soils.
Toxicity Like many other irises, most parts of the plant are poisonous (rhizome and leaves), and if mistakenly ingested can cause stomach pains and vomiting.
Sap Obtaining the sap traditionally involves tapping the top shoots and collecting the dripping juice in hanging earthen pots (in some regions a plastic or bamboo bottle).
Description This species has a fast growth rate of up to 10 to 80 cm (4 to 31 in) a year, growing to about 6 m (20 ft) tall.
Trollius asiaticus, the Asian globeflower, is a species of ornamental plant in the family Ranunculaceae, which is native to Asia and Europe.
Gallery References ANU Forestry Illawarra plum - Podocarpus elatus Bruneteau, Jean-Paul, Tukka, Real Australian Food, ISBN 0-207-18966-8.
The type specimen was collected by Edward Palmer, one of the main US plant collectors of his time, in the Mexican state of Tamaulipas (possibly near Ciudad Victoria) in 1907.
Though perennial, the species is often cultivated as a biennial or annual plant, particularly in colder areas where it may not survive the winter.
Cultivars Several cultivars have been named, including 'Alba' (white flowers), 'Charles Raffil' (bright purple-pink flowers; starts flowering on younger trees), and 'Strybing White' (white flowers).
Botanist Karl Moritz Schumann named it after Wilhelm Lenninghaus (1845-1918), a native of North Rhine-Westphalia who, in the 1880s, left his hometown of Ennepetal and emigrated to Porto Alegre, Brazil, where he became Guillermo Lenninghaus, and collected cacti for the German grower Haage.
A spreading perennial, it is recommended as a pollinator-attracting ground cover, for rock and gravel gardens, and for planting beneath roses.
Primula is found in mountainous or higher latitude zones of North America, Europe, and Asia, with extension into South America, Africa (mountains of Ethiopia) and tropical Asia (islands of Java and Sumatra).
It is not hardy, and requires protection when temperatures fall below 5 °C (41 °F) (USDA Zones: 9a–11b).
See also Tristaniopsis collina, hill water gum Syzygium francisii, giant water gum Syzygium crebrinerve, black water gum == References ==
Hoya carnosa, the porcelain flower or wax plant, is a species of flowering plant in the family Apocynaceae, native to East Asia.
Occurrence The lenga beech can be found in the Torres del Paine National Park, Tierra del Fuego National Park, Los Alerces National Park and Nahuel Huapi National Park among other places.
When mature, 'Stargazers' can grow to a height of 36 inches with a spread of 10 to 14 inches with 2 to 8 flowers per stem.
It is found in eastern South Africa in the provinces of KwaZulu-Natal, Mpumalanga and Limpopo, Namibia, Angola and Botswana and in eastern tropical Africa into Ethiopia.
Rubrums were a predecessor commercial lily to the 'Stargazers' whose flowers pointed down to the ground.
It prefers sunshine and moist (but drained) soil, and is tolerant of severe winter cold, but not heat.
Its rosette of succulent leaves are turned back ("retuse") so as to provide a flat and level face, on the surface of the ground.
The stimulus is transmitted as an action potential from a stimulated leaflet to the leaflet's swollen base (pulvinus), and from there to the pulvini of the other leaflets, which run along the length of the leaf's rachis.
It is native in Greece and Albania and may be naturalized elsewhere in Mediterranean Europe where it occurs in maritime sandy habitats and in waste places.
Evidence of large amount of macro-charcoals in the top layers of soil suggest that Alsophila tricolor establishes itself in areas where anthropogenic fires occur.
Pure stands usually indicate sites unfavorable to conifer growth or recurring disturbance such as fire or logging activities.
Haworthia retusa, Haworthia bayeri, Haworthia springbokvlakensis, Haworthia pygmaea, Haworthia mirabilis and Haworthia magnifica).
It is a banyan of the genus Ficus which contains around 750 species worldwide in warm climates, including the edible fig (Ficus carica).
The cypselas are about 1.3 mm (0.051 in) long and the pappus has thread-like bristles joined at the base.
In spite of its scientific and common names, it is native to the western Mediterranean region, and it has been introduced to the British Isles, and to Tasmania.
It was verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 4 April 2003, then updated on 18 January 2006.
In the face of urban development, inappropriate fire management, and invasive alien trees such as pines and gums, silvertrees have been driven from about 74% of their natural range.
Root rot can be a problem in potted indoor plants, if the soil is too moist or does not contain enough inert drainage material.
Use in horticulture A cultivar known as Kennedia nigricans 'Minstrel' was registered with the Australian Cultivar Registration Authority by Goldup Nursery of Mount Evelyn, Victoria in September 1985.
Its leaves can be up to 25 cm (10 in) long, with a mix of purplish, green, and silvery green blotches.
It is native to tropical and Southern Africa but has become naturalized in other parts of the world, including Western Australia and Bangladesh.
The common names comes from that of Cornus sanguinea, the hard wood of which Northern Europeans used to make nails ("dags") during the medieval era.
External links Erythrina coralloides photos International Legume Database & Information Service: Erythrina coralloides
Hoya carnosa has been in cultivation for more than 200 years and has given rise to many cultivars that vary in foliage form or flower color.
Podocarpus elatus, known as the plum pine, the brown pine, the Illawarra plum or the Queensland Christmas tree, is a species of Podocarpus endemic to the east coast of Australia, in eastern New South Wales and eastern Queensland.
The species has been collected in a tropical deciduous forest, among roadside limestone rocks, and on limestone outcrops.
The gravel along railroad beds provides ideal conditions for its growth - well-drained, nutrient-poor soil, and high light conditions; these beds provide corridors that facilitate its spread.
Since the 2000s, bara has been used by non-Japanese audience as an umbrella term to describe a wide variety of Japanese and non-Japanese gay media featuring love and sex between masculine men.
Description Pelargonium radens is an evergreen perennial plant, growing to up to 1.5 m (4 ft 11 in) high.
Interns, aides, and other White House workers are often granted clippings of the famous plant which they grow and further distribute to friends and family.
The stem has pale green spathes, (leaves of the flower bud), that are between 10–12.5 cm (4–5 in) long.
It can usually be distinguished from these however, by the tip of the free portion of each drupe of its fruit-head, which usually does not have an areole.
In spring (November to December) it bears 15 cm (6 in) long stems of green-white, tubular flowers in racemes.
It is adapted to a wide variety of fire regimes, with intervals ranging from just one year on dry sites, to 500 years or more in moist, riparian zones.
The flowers are star-shaped, with at least 12 thin, delicate petal-like tepals, some cultivars having more than 30.
The flowers are 2.5–6 cm in diameter, mildly scented, with five petals, eight stamens, and a 2.5–3-cm-long nectar spur at the rear.
Cultivars of French origin include Bouche de Betizac, Maraval, Marigoule, Marsol, and Precoce Migoule.
Although Alan Meerow and Bijan Dehgan in 1984 corrected this mistake, the long-time confusion between the two species has persisted and U.
The species is cultivated as an ornamental and has become naturalized in many areas, including Pakistan, Australia, New Zealand, and in southern and western parts of the United States.
Soil moisture levels that are close to field capacity, whether the water comes from rainfall or irrigation, have been shown to increase the likelihood of soil-borne diseases.
See also List of Philodendron species References Media related to Philodendron erubescens at Wikimedia Commons
The pollen production of P.rhoeas, on a per flower basis, was very high in comparison with the other plants tested, at almost triple the amount of the top-ranked perennial (a mallow).
Cultivars References Martinelli, Gustavo; Vieira, Cláudia Magalhães; Gonzalez, Marcos; Leitman, Paula; Piratininga, Andréa; Costa, Andrea Ferreira da; Forzza, Rafaela Campostrini (January 2008).
External links The dictionary definition of kumquat at Wiktionary Data related to Fortunella at Wikispecies Kumquat at the Wikibooks Cookbook subproject
Arytera divaricata, known as the gap axe, coogara, coogera or rose tamarind is a forest tree of eastern Australia.
Uses Trachycarpus fortunei has been cultivated in China and Japan for thousands of years, for its coarse but very strong leaf sheath fibre, used for making rope, sacks, and other coarse cloth where great strength is important.
Wildlife value This is one of the food plants for the caterpillars of several butterflies and moths, including the gatekeeper and the meadow brown, the small heath, and the grass moth Agriphila inquinatella.
odorata adds inimitable sweetness to desserts, fruit salads, and teas while the mild pea flavor of V.
Until recently, only a few of the ten or so species that exist have been used in breeding programs for the hybrids available in the market; most of the cultivars available as house plants are derived from Streptocarpus ionanthus (syn.
Use as a natural dye Like other goldenrod species, the leaves and inflorescences of tall goldenrod are widely used as a natural dye.
Uses Lolium multiflorum is widely used to provide large forage yields in short term leys where persistence of the crop is not a priority.
It was verified by United States Department of Agriculture and the Agricultural Research Service on 4 April 2003 and then updated on 2 December 2004.
barbata does not cluster with the remaining species previously assigned to that genus, without creating five further subgenera.
The leaves are strongly aromatic when crushed, egg-shaped with the lower end towards the base, often appearing wedge-shaped, 4–6 mm (0.16–0.24 in) long, 3.5–5 mm (0.14–0.20 in) wide and sessile or on a petiole up to 0.5 mm (0.020 in) long.
While they have reached maturity by autumn, producing 3-5 seeds each, it is not until the spring, after they've been exposed to freezing and thawing, that the bitter fruits become a favorite food source of many birds and mammals.
Gallery See also Kitchen garden Hwajeon, a small sweet pancake made with edible flower petals References Further reading Barash, C.
Capraria lanceolata L.f.) is a species of shrub in the potato family Solanaceae that is native to tropical regions of North and South America.
In contrast with the angular notching of the silver maple, however, the notches tend to be rounded at their interior.
Description Kalanchoe sexangularis is a succulent, perennial that reaches heights of 20 to 100 centimeters.
In May, it has fragranced flowers (between light yellow to mustard), with a dark signal patch and yellow beard with purple tips.
Since crape myrtles are found in many places, opinions differ as to how to cultivate them in landscaping.
Description It is a twining evergreen climber, growing to 3 metres (9.8 ft) or more, with panicles of brilliant scarlet flowers in summer.
hygroscopica, also known as the Queensland rock violet in Australia, occurs in Cape York Peninsula and Northeast Queensland as far south as Rockhampton, from 60–900 metres (200–2,950 ft) elevation.
Taxonomy Acacia elata was first formally described in 1842 by the botanist George Bentham from an unpublished description by Allan Cunningham in William Jackson Hooker's London Journal of Botany.
Selected child plants include, 'Anne Boleyn' (1991), 'Evelyn' (1992), 'The Pilgrim' (1991), 'Versigny' (1992), 'Charlotte' (1994), 'Molineux' (1994), and 'Charity' (1998).
The upright racemes appear white, pale violet or pale pink and can sprout sporadically throughout the year (but more typically in spring and late autumn), which form verticillasters of 2-4 flowers and 2–3 mm bracts.
Trollius asiaticus, is considered to be a key ancestral specie as it acts a maternal form from which other species such as T.
The soft, silky leaves are shiny silver, lanceolate, 8–15 cm long and 2 cm broad, with their distinct silvery sheen produced by dense velvety hairs.
Cultivated roses are often subject to severe damage from insect, arachnid and fungal pests and diseases.
So, instead of the common western phrase 'white as snow', what often appears in Hindu mythological stories is 'white as kunda'.
On each side of the leaf, five to eight side veins extend from the midrib, most of which are straight.
The bark on young trees is very distinct, smooth, glossy bronze-yellow, but becoming fissured and dull dark grey-brown with age.
Acer palmatum, commonly known as Japanese maple, palmate maple, or smooth Japanese maple (Korean: danpungnamu [단풍나무]; Japanese: irohamomiji [イロハモミジ] or momiji [紅葉]), is a species of woody plant native to Korea, Japan, China, eastern Mongolia, and southeast Russia.
Oxalis purpurea is a species of flowering plant in the woodsorrel family known by the common name purple woodsorrel.
Many commercial florists report that while most consumers love the appearance and the fragrance of the Stargazer lily and other Oriental lilies (e.g.
Distribution and habitat Magnolia delavayi is native to southern China, occurring in Guizhou, Sichuan and Yunnan at 1,500-2,800 m of elevation.
References External links USDA Plants Profile for Clusia rosea Calusia rosea; University of Florida Cooperative Extension, 22 April 2019 Hear.org Photo Gallery — Clusia rosea
Candidum (Euro-Caucasian) hybrids (Division III) This includes mostly European species: Lilium candidum, Lilium chalcedonicum, Lilium kesselringianum, Lilium monadelphum, Lilium pomponium, Lilium pyrenaicum and Lilium × testaceum.
Uses The plant is propagated by corms and plant division, and is a popular ornamental in both the local and international markets.
Description This fern is known to grow to heights of 10 metres (33 ft) or more (though it occasionally takes a rare creeping form).
It is a hemiepiphyte; that is, it grows as an epiphyte on rocks or other trees at the start of its life and behaving like a strangler fig as it gets larger.
palmatum cultivar, with small leaves yellow with orange in spring, green in summer, orange-yellow in autumn.
See also List of foliage plant diseases (Cactaceae) References External links Nemaplex, University of California - Heterodera cacti
Dome-like in shape, it has a denser foliage with dark green, leathery leaves and hence provides more shade than eucalyptus trees.
Both sides of the leaf are glabrous, the tip is acuminate or shortly tapering, the base is acuminate to blunt or occasionally shortly tapering.
Crocus vernus (spring crocus, giant crocus) is a species of flowering plant in the family Iridaceae, native to the Alps, the Pyrenees, and the Balkans.
barberae × dichotoma), a fast-growing cultivar developed in Swellendam, which has a grey trunk, and more slender grey-green leaves with pink teeth.
Research has shown the species to be non-native to northern states such as Pennsylvania, and only being a recent arrival.
The tree typically grows from 9–25 meters (30–82 feet) in height and from 0.3–1.4 m (1–4+1⁄2 ft) in diameter.
Biodegradable plastics production In a novel application, US scientists have genetically modified switchgrass to enable it to produce polyhydroxybutyrate, which accumulates in beadlike granules within the plant's cells.
Clerodendrum splendens, the glory tree or flaming glorybower, is a species of flowering plant in the genus Clerodendrum of the family Lamiaceae, native to tropical Western Africa.
Takahashia japonica - the string cottony scale - is an insect pest of ornamental- and economic trees in the Coccidae family.
Growing African violets from seed is rare, and most commercially available plants are produced from cuttings and tissue culture.
platypoda to be most closely related to the ancestor of two other arid Northern Territory species (F.
The species is named for the park for which it was first discovered, Prühonice Park in the Czech Republic.
Female plants produce orange-red ovoid drupes, which are about 8 mm in diameter and 10 mm in length.
Named after the Russian explorer Nikolai Przhevalsky, it used to be called Senecio przewalskii Maxim.
In cultivation This is a very popular ornamental tree in subtropical and tropical climates, grown for its scented flowers and also used as a food item in many South Asian cuisines.
The leaves are ovate to ovate-oblong, 10–20 cm (rarely to 32 cm) long and 5–10 cm (rarely to 20 cm) broad, tough, leathery, with a 5–7 cm petiole.
Iberis is so named because many members of the genus come from the Iberian Peninsula in south west Europe.
Pythium: Wilting in the plant may be caused by a Pythium species fungal infection if the plant is receiving adequate water.
In maple syrup production from Acer saccharum, the sap is extracted from the trees using a tap placed into a hole drilled through the phloem, just inside the bark.
National sport teams using the silver fern include: The silver fern is also extensively used as part of the official symbols of New Zealand Olympics teams.
The growth starts in October and should start with careful watering; water should never be poured directly on the rhizomes.
Plants may end up being completely defoliated due to their feeding activities, sometimes resulting in their death.
It has thick and very glossy leaves which vary considerably in size, depending on exposure to the elements.
Trachycarpus fortunei 'Wagnerianus' is unknown in the wild, but may have originated in cultivation in Japan, where it was first discovered by the horticulturalist Albert Wagner of Leipzig, Germany in the second half of the 19th century (in 1873).
Description The plant grows slowly, reaching 30–90 cm (12–35 in) in height, with a spread of up to 60 cm (24 in).
Cultivation Magnolia delavayi is grown as an ornamental tree for its evergreen foliage as well as flowers.
Description 30cm in height and width, the plant features irregular, spidery leaves (hence its name), and produces long-lasting, vibrant pink flowers in spring and autumn.
Description Growing to 30 cm (12 in) tall and broad, it is an evergreen shrub with leaves heavily-spotted pink or white, as if sprayed with paint.
The naked appearance of the tree is reflected through the Kentucky coffeetree's Greek genus name, which means "naked branch".
Phyllosticta alliariaefoliae is a fungal plant pathogen infecting bellflowers (Campanula carpatica).
However, the species has a wide ecological tolerance in the UK, occurring on both basic and acid soils, as well as old mining sites and spoil heaps that are contaminated with heavy metals.
The blooms can appear nearly all year in mild-winter areas, but the heaviest flowering is from February to July.
The light green, delicate looking deciduous leaves consist of many segments, and are alternately arranged on new growth.
Other English names include striped dracaena (for variegated cultivars), corn plant (for the cultivar 'Massangeana'); Chinese money tree, and fortune plant.
In northern coastal habitats it is often associated with Aextoxicon punctatum, Beilschmiedia miersii, Cryptocarya alba, and Schinus latifolia.
During the flowering period of Narcissus 'King Alfred', hundreds of blooms would be sent by train to London.
Zonnefeld (2208) discusses its status, believing both on genetic information and morphology and distribution that it is a separate species from Narcissus triandrus.
It is found from Lane County, Oregon, south through the Cascade Range, the Sierra Nevada, and the Coast, Transverse, and Peninsular Ranges to San Diego County, California.
The fruit is a heavy woody cone, containing numerous seeds; each seed is a small nut with a silky-haired helicopter-like parachute, enabling it to disperse by wind.
Natural regeneration is quite limited due to the scarcity of mature, seed-bearing plants and the fact that this tree's population mostly consists of widely scattered individuals.
Some Boea species are known as types of resurrection plant due to their ability to survive desiccation (e.g.
Description It is a fast-growing plant, either annual or perennial, with trailing stems growing to 0.9–1.8 m (3–6 ft).
In the early part of the 21st Century, Sun Valley Farms in California, a large commercial flower farm, developed a pink lily similar looking to the Stargazer that had no fragrance.
The leaves are 10–23 cm (rarely to 33 cm) long and 4.5–10 cm (rarely to 14 cm) broad, fuzzy underneath and with an acute apex.
Taxonomy First found in Dagestan, Iris timofejewii was first published and described by Yury Nikolaevich Voronov in 'Not.
Extraction of the wood with acetone, followed by analysis of the extract, indicate that the essential oil of Juniperus cedrus is particularly rich in thujopsene, which comprises around 2.2% of the weight of the heartwood.
This can most easily be demonstrated by carefully breaking a leaf across, then gently pulling the two halves apart (see illustration).
Usefully, the fruits can be collected and picked up from the tree or ground at any time during fall, winter, and spring.
Of the four forms, varieties or subspecies, the largest is the "Bemavo", from the hills of eastern Madagascar, which can be 100 feet (30 metres) in height with a trunk 2 feet (60 cm) thick.
It requires a subtropical/temperate climate with abundant rainfall, tolerating occasional frosts down to about −5 to −20 °C (23 to −4 °F).
In this kind of habitat it is an important species for preventing erosion and slowing runoff by trapping sediments.
Dixon examined the morphology of the Ficus leucotricha and Ficus platypoda complexes and divided them into: Ficus atricha, Ficus brachypoda, Ficus cerasicarpa, Ficus platypoda.
It is closely related to the New Zealand and New Caledonian genus Libocedrus, and some botanists treat it within this genus, as Libocedrus chilensis, though it resembles Libocedrus less than the other South American cypress genus Pilgerodendron does.
Flowers are inflorescent with a 2–5 cm peduncle, 6.4-11.4 cm single leaf surrounding the stamen (called a spathe), and a 5.5 cm-12.5 cm spadix.
Cultivation With a minimum temperature of 10 °C (50 °F), it requires the protection of glass during the winter months in most temperate regions.
All the literature of the old Tamil was written in preserved palm leaves also known as Palm-leaf manuscript.
Narcissus 'Rip van Winkle' is an heirloom cultivar of Narcissus, which was first introduced commercially in 1884.
As the International Dahlia Register has three inadequately described cultivars labelled 'Sunshine', it was not possible to connect 'Moonfire' with one of these cultivars.
Height: 6" - 1' (15 cm - 30 cm) Spread: 4" - 6" (10 cm - 15 cm) Depth: 3" (7 cm) Uses: Edging, Ground cover, Patio and Containers If planted in early spring it will grow and flower throughout spring and summer.
Flowering occurs from spring to early summer and is followed by fruit which are more or less spherical to oval or barrel-shaped, about 3 mm (0.1 in) in diameter, sparsely arranged along the branches.
Folk medicinal Ecuador The plant is but one of as many as 71 different medicinal plant species, from 33 different plant families, used in the preparation of Ecuadorian Horchata, a tonic drunk to improve physical and spiritual well-being in Ecuadorian folk medicine.
Uses Araucaria angustifolia is a popular garden tree in subtropical areas, planted for its unusual effect of the thick, 'reptilian' branches with a very symmetrical appearance.
aureum cannot propagate on a large scale due to its lack of seed banks as well as its minimal immunity to herbicides.
callizona in their native range are much smaller than Florida populations because they are likely regulated a specialist parasitoid that is not present in the invaded Florida range.
On the other hand, the consumer must consider that roasting, boiling or frying has a big impact on the nutritional profile of chestnut.
The flower stem is usually covered with coarse hairs that are held at right angles to the surface, helping to distinguish it from P.
By the time Carl Meissner published his 1856 arrangement of the genus, there were 58 described Banksia species.
Its seed capsules are filled with irritating hairs giving rise to common names, itchy bomb tree, and cow itch tree.
In 1947, Queen Elizabeth II received a diamond brooch in the shape of this flower for her twenty-first birthday while traveling in Rhodesia, now called Zimbabwe.
It has become naturalised in parts of Ireland and western Great Britain and it has been planted in Spain.
It is also used for timber, and as a traditional medicinal plant for heart conditions, asthma, and stomach pain.
Sections of genus Primula The classification of the genus Primula has been investigated by botanists for over a century.
Fritillaria pudica, the yellow fritillary, is a small perennial plant found in the sagebrush country in the western United States (Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Washington, Wyoming, very northern California, Nevada, northwestern Colorado, North Dakota and Utah) and Canada (Alberta and British Columbia).
Kalanchoe 'Tarantula', or Kalanchoe katapifa 'Tarantula', is a succulent cultivar in the kalanchoe genus that produces small bouquets of pink flowers.
Habitat It is considered useful as a street tree due to its disease and pest resilience, its high tolerance for smog, drought and poor drainage, and its minimal maintenance needs.
Female spikes are approximately 2–4 centimetres (0.8–1.6 in) long and 4–6 millimetres (0.16–0.24 in) wide.
It is occasionally referred to as misty plume bush and is commonly used as a decorative garden plant due to its flowers when in full bloom.
The larvae of the death's head hawkmoth (Acherontia atropos) and the fulvous hawkmoth (Coelonia mauritii) eat the leaves of this plant.
Viburnum rhytidophyllum, the leatherleaf viburnum, is a species of flowering plant in the family Viburnaceae.
The number of bracts and sepals together varies up to 10 or 11, sometimes forming a less or more conspicuous involucre.
Haworthiopsis limifolia, formerly Haworthia limifolia, is a species of flowering plant in the family Asphodelaceae.
Wagner made several collecting trips to Japan and China in the 3rd quarter of the 19th century (as well as frequent trips to the Caribbean and South America.) He had a flourishing business growing palms in his steam-heated greenhouses in northern Germany.
It is Imperiled (S2) in Maine and New Brunswick and Critically Imperiled (S1) on Prince Edward Island.
It has a relatively large rhizome from which many fine rootlets covered in dark reddish-brown scales grow.
Some protection should be considered over the winter months in climates with temperatures below 4–5 °C, e.g.
The petals are pale lavendar to almost white with reddish or purple blotches inside, 9–15 mm (0.35–0.59 in) long, forming a tube 6–8 mm (0.24–0.31 in) long.
Several mammals and birds eat the pinhão, and it has an important ecological role in Araucaria moist forests (a sub-type of the Brazilian Atlantic Forest).
Within temperate Asia, it is found in the Caucasus regions of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, and Ciscaucasia.
Like other irises, it has 2 pairs of petals, 3 large sepals (outer petals), known as the 'falls' and 3 inner, smaller petals (or tepals), known as the 'standards'.
It is similar to other magnolias in that it likes rich, moist soil and should be planted in a location where it is protected from elemental extremes.
Description Leaves are thin, glossy, light green, entire or with wavy margins, 10–12 cm x 6–9 cm, often rounded and rarely oblong-elliptic, deeply or shallowly lobed, cordate or cuneate at the base.
The Mancunian singer Morrissey is known to dance with gladioli hanging from his back pocket or in his hands, especially during the era of The Smiths.
Description Unlike other species in the genus, it is an evergreen shrub rather than a vine, forming a low mound 0.6–1.2 m (2 ft 0 in – 3 ft 11 in) in height, with a similar spread.
In the Edo period, various double-flowered cultivars were produced and planted on the banks of rivers, on Buddhist temples, in Shinto shrines and in daimyo gardens in urban areas such as Edo, and the common people living in urban areas could enjoy them.
The fronds are small and compact, making this fern an ideal container or garden plant where space is limited.
The inflorescences are short and upright and appear on branch ends from early autumn to early spring (March to September in Australia).
When Mengniu had financial trouble as the result of business following its role in the 2008 Chinese milk scandal, in July 2009, Mengniu sold a 20% stake to a consortium led by the state-owned COFCO Group, China's largest importer and exporter of food.
Black tar heroin is often produced in Latin America, and is most commonly found in the western and southern parts of the United States, while also being occasionally found in Western Africa.
Contaminated syrups The outbreak in Madhya Pradesh was primarily linked to Coldrif, produced by Sresan Pharmaceuticals, which contained approximately 48.6% diethylene glycol (DEG), far exceeding permissible limits and causing multiple child fatalities.
Health concerns Because of the woody core of the cobs of corn, the alcohol produced contains high levels of methanol, which is toxic.
Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev called for a ban on non-traditional alcoholic liquids like bath oils, saying "it's an outrage, and we need to put an end to this".
Justice Woodward noted that the scale of the operation could not be properly assessed due to attempts to cover it up, but said that the types of meat used as substitutes would be easily obtained in the eastern states of Australia.
The company supplies 2,300 institutions within the UK, including schools, old-age people homes, prisons and branches of the armed forces.
Excessive intake of NPN can have adverse effects on animal health and productivity, as well as environmental implications.
See also Antioxidant Photolysis (photodegradation) Radical (chemistry) References External links "Weird chemical used in plastics has erupted as latest fentanyl adulterant".
Despite his requests, the Army was dedicated to supporting the Chicago meatpacking industry, which eventually shipped hundreds of tons of refrigerated and canned beef to the Army from the mainland.
Police found photos of contaminated baby food on his laptop with jars identical to those found in Rochdale.
Counterfeit cannabis buds: Hemp buds (or low-potency cannabis buds) laced with synthetic cannabinoids.
The municipal pharmaceutical inspector, María Elisa Álvarez Obaya, started to think about possibility of poisoning, when she noticed four victims had been in the same party.
However, according to the internationally harmonized guideline, ICH Q7, API manufacturers are fully responsible for qualifying their suppliers through on-site audits, testing, and regular communications.
The bribery allegation indicates that Maiden Pharmaceuticals had foreknowledge that their cough syrup was tainted.
Miles made reference to "embalmed beef." Miles, a Civil War Union Army veteran, had many years of experience with army provisions.
Preparation Due to the pungent smell of the distilling process, Tharra is often prepared in remote fields, away from human settlements.
The first factory was established in the Volta Region, taking advantage of the area's supply of sugar cane plantations.
TOCP was originally thought to be non-toxic; however, it was later determined to be a neurotoxin that causes axonal damage to the nerve cells in the nervous system of mammals, especially those located in the spinal cord.
Investigation, arrests and court case On the Sunday morning the local police were informed of the deaths of a man named Elijah Wright and two boys, aged 9 and 14, the sons of John Scott; it was thought that the cause of the deaths was cholera.
The 2011 Turkish Riviera mass alcohol poisoning was an event that occurred on May 26–27, 2011, during a party on a yacht voyage of mostly female Russian tourists on the way from Bodrum to Antalya, southwestern Turkey.
On 9 January 2020, a police report indicated quantities of diethylene glycol in one brand of beer from the small upscale brewery Backer that could have poisoned 18 people in Belo Horizonte and other cities in Minas Gerais state.
At the time, concerns arose that the scandal would affect the beef-exporting industry, as the United States was the largest importer of Australian beef.
Cocaine is prohibited in competition for athletes by the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), which lists it as a stimulant on its International Standard for the Prohibited List.
The eggs contained 4.7 ppm (part per million) of melamine, compared to the government imposed legal limit of 2.5 ppm for melamine in food.
2008 16 July: Gansu Province reports to the Ministry of Health that local hospitals had identified an increase in the incidence of kidney ailments among babies in the months earlier, and that most victims had consumed Sanlu's baby formula.
Adverse effects People who intravenously inject black tar heroin are at higher risk of venous sclerosis than those injecting powder heroin.
Alger from the Chicago "big three" meatpacking corporations, Morris & Co, Swift & Co, and Armour & Co.
Background Alcohol poisoning incidents are common in India, where poor people often cannot afford licensed liquor.
[was] apparently preserved by injected chemicals to aid deficient refrigeration," the medical officer wrote.
It is not clear whether the FDA checked samples of the same brands of food in which acetaminophen was allegedly found because the initial laboratory could not initiate contact with the FDA or publicly identify the manufacturer because of client confidentiality.
Most of the victims were foreign workers from Bangladesh, Indonesia, Myanmar, and Nepal, as well as several Malaysians.
Background Deaths from illicit liquor are common in India, where illegally manufactured alcohol is often consumed for reasons including poverty and geographic isolation.
It is prepared by boiling barley grains or rice and some local herb known as Phab in water and then fermenting the material.
Before modern microbiology, foodborne illness was not understood, and, from the mid 1800s to early-mid 1900s, was perceived as ptomaine poisoning, caused by a fundamental flaw in understanding how it worked.
Until October, 45 people from the total of 98 cases have been reported dead by the Malaysian Health Ministry.
The scandal As a result, most of the meat arriving in Cuba was found to be so poorly preserved, chemically adulterated, or spoiled so that it was toxic and dangerous to consume.
The Tammany Hall politician Alderman Michael Tuomey, known as "Butcher Mike", defended the distillers vigorously throughout the scandal—in fact, he was put in charge of the Board of Health investigation.
In its natural state, nitrogen exists primarily as a gas (N2) in the atmosphere, making up about 78% of the air we breathe.
The four products were Promethazine Oral Solution, Kofexmalin Baby Cough Syrup, Makoff Baby Cough Syrup, and Magrip N Cold Syrup.
The original Xuzhou Anying wheat gluten was "human grade," as opposed to "feed grade," meaning that it could have been used to make food for humans such as bread or pasta.
The whole act was repealed by section 1 of, and the first schedule to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1958 (6 & 7 Eliz.
One month after the initial recall, contaminated rice protein from a different source in China was also identified as being associated with kidney failure in pets in the United States, while contaminated corn gluten was associated with kidney failure with pets in South Africa.
Laboratory grade is suitable for use in educational settings, but is not acceptable for food or drug use.
However, Clemenceau judged that the law must show strength and appealed to the army to restore order.
Planning In 1981, several thousand of Rajneesh's followers had moved onto the "Big Muddy Ranch" in rural Wasco County, Oregon, where they later incorporated as an intentional community called "Rajneeshpuram".
Black tar heroin's unique appearance and texture are due to its acetylation without the benefit of the usual reflux apparatus.
History Issue Chicken eggs were found to contain fipronil and distributed to 15 European Union countries, Switzerland, and Hong Kong.
The poisoning was precipitated by drinking counterfeit surrogate alcohol—actually scented bath lotion that was marked as not safe for consumption.
The two Australian victims, both 19 years old, initially fell ill on 13 November, after a night of drinking with a group of others.
United Kingdom In the United Kingdom, Arla is distributed by Volac, which also distributes Nestle, First Milk and Wilmar.
We found out that my nephew was poisoned by that drug through the results of medical examinations in Karshi.
Therefore, keeping cows stabled near distilleries and feeding them with swill was an economic advantage.
She added that even though she felt the alcohol tasted unusually strong, she did not realise anything.
Additional features can include cough, fever, fatigue, joint pain, edema, and numbness or tingling, usually in the limbs, hands and feet.
Some of the commonly used grades of purity include: ACS grade is the highest level of purity, and meets the standards set by the American Chemical Society (ACS).
After the negotiation and the agreement to move to avoid collective punishment, the mutineers of the 17th were assigned to Gafsa in Tunisia.
Outbreaks caused by infectious agents Outbreaks caused by chemical contamination See also List of epidemics List of food contamination incidents == References ==
In November 2024, six people died from suspected methanol poisoning at a bar in Vang Vieng, Laos, as a result of consuming contaminated alcohol.
You were carrying on your life normally while hoping to make yourself rich by threatening Tesco in this way while endangering the life of others in the process.".
2006 – China Wang Guiping discovered how easy it was to enter China's pharmaceutical supply business and earn extra money.
The Gambia cough syrup scandal refers to the deaths of 70 children in The Gambia from the consumption of four cough syrups manufactured in India.
"Arege mogo" which first originated in Lira district in northern Uganda made and sold all over the country .
The United States Army beef scandal was an American political scandal caused by the widespread distribution of extremely low-quality, heavily adulterated beef products to U.S Army soldiers fighting in the Spanish–American War.
It is engaged in processing and manufacturing of milk products, including ice cream, milk tea powder, sterilized milk and fresh milk under "Yili" brand, powdered milk under "Pro-Kido" brand, and organic milk under "Satine" brand.
Brown-brown, or brown cocaine, is a purported form of cocaine or amphetamine insufflation mixed with smokeless gunpowder.
Methamphetamine MSM is sometimes used as a cutting agent for illicitly manufactured methamphetamine.
Uses In many countries, sales of alcoholic beverages are heavily taxed for revenue and public health policy purposes (see Pigovian tax).
Video games In the video game Metal Gear Solid 2: Sons of Liberty (2001), Raiden divulges his experience as a child soldier and references the use of brown-brown.
"The new standard requires Fonterra to purchase on segregated supply palm oil by 2018, and to work with suppliers of palm products to ensure that plans are in place for full traceability to plantation by 2018", said Fonterra's director of social responsibility, Carolyn Mortland.
Impact Tesco was forced to issue a product recall of 42,000 jars after the contaminated jars were found in Lockerbie and Rochdale.
A scandal involving 240 tons of gutter oil in Taiwan affecting hundreds of companies and thousands of restaurants, some of which may have been exported overseas, broke in September 2014.
According to legend, locals rushed in boats to save him or preserve his body from being eaten by the fish.
Since 2008, Chang Guann had imported 56 batches of lard oil weighing 2,385.1 tons from Hong Kong, about 300 tons of which were purchased from Globalway Corp between 2011 and 2014.
It is made from yeast fermentation of sugarcane, or wheat husk, especially in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana.
10 illegal liquor shops in the Diamond Harbour subdivision, one of the affected communities, were shut down by the police as well.
13 September: Production halted at Sanlu; nineteen people are arrested; Baidu denies ever agreeing to bury Sanlu negative news 15 September: Beijing confirms two babies dead.
Indian authorities, however, did not find any toxins but did identify labeling issues with Maiden Pharmaceuticals' cough syrup.
Food and Drug Administration was quoted as stating that at least 81 deaths were believed to be linked to a raw heparin ingredient imported from the People's Republic of China, and that they had also received 785 reports of serious injuries associated with the drug's use.
Weight cutting agents: Binding substances: Sometimes cannabis is adulterated with other binding substances including industrial glues such as neoprene, tar, ammonia, bitumen, petroleum-derived hydrocarbons, dog food or even human or animal excrement.
Cause According to police, the victims suffered methanol poisoning from methanol that had been added to the liquor to increase its potency.
References External links Guangdong Yashili Group Co Ltd Archived 2021-05-02 at the Wayback Machine Yashili International Holdings Ltd
Ltd teamed up with Arla Foods, the largest producer of dairy products in Scandinavia, to produce and distribute solid milk products in China, including Hong Kong and Macau.
Gray death is a slang term which refers to potent mixtures of synthetic opioids, for example benzimidazole opioids or fentanyl analogues, which were often sold on the street misleadingly as "heroin".
Harry Gross and his part-owner of Boston-Hub Products, Max Reisman, were ultimately fined $1,000 each and given a two-year suspended jail sentence.
He ate some of the sweets and by 5:30 pm he became ill; he went home and left his assistant to look after the stall until it closed at 11:30 pm, by which point about a thousand sweets had been sold.
Bangalore police arrested a kingpin of the illicit liquor network, but the prime supplier committed suicide.
Health risks Although practiced for many centuries, the drinking of realgar wine and the painting of children with realgar have come under scrutiny in modern times.
Tests revealed that they were horse meat, not beef, and further testing elsewhere in the United States revealed that some Australian "beef" contained kangaroo meat.
Halifax 1902 beer poisoning Such contamination was tied to an outbreak in the borough of Halifax in January and February 1902 where 13 to 14 cases of arsenic poisoning were noted, three deadly.
As of 1998, US Customs regulations on "country of origin" have stated that if a non-origin nation is shown on the label, then the real origin must be shown on the same side of the label and in comparable size letters so as not to mislead the consumer.
Around 30 people in connection with the distribution have been arrested despite little response and insufficient enforcement of the black market in the country from the authorities has attracted criticism.
Other studies have highlighted numerous major flaws in many of the epidemiological studies on the association of tryptophan with EMS, which cast serious doubt on the validity of their results.
See also Human subject research legislation in the United States List of medicine contamination incidents 1985 Austrian diethylene glycol wine scandal == References ==
Behzod Musayev, the minister of the health department of Republic of Uzbekistan, sent a video message of condolence to the parents and relatives of 18 children who died after taking the Dok-1 Max drug.
In the United States, the cookies are primarily found in Asian specialty stores and some Hispanic specialty stores.
Government actions The Tamil Nadu state drug control department cancelled all manufacturing licenses of Sresan Pharma.
It should no longer be issued." Miles also made public statements, reported in the newspapers, claiming that the canned meat was the after-product of the process for making beef extract.
The WHO has urged countries to enhance surveillance and offer support to countries lacking testing resources.
His successor, Yeh Ching-chuan, announced a return to the original zero-tolerance policy to melamine.
This means that 50% of street heroin in the UK in 1995 had worked its way from producer to user without being cut at any stage, although other adulterants may have been present.
Although the first case of a fatality from the related ethylene glycol occurred in 1930 and studies had been published in medical journals stating DEG could cause kidney damage or failure, its toxicity was not widely known prior to the incident.
Both sites were kept under 24-hour video surveillance for several months, but the killer did not surface.
This would have followed the Army's traditional practice of procuring fresh beef from local sources.
In 2005, AQSIQ established a sui generis system to cover the use of geographical indication products through the 2005 Provisions on the Protection of GI Products.
"Industry, government and enforcement agencies should, as a precautionary principle, always put the needs of consumers above all other considerations, and this means giving food safety and food crime prevention—i.e.
On 7 July 1981, about 300 people (Official figures 229) around the Tannery Road area died as a result of consuming this spurious alcohol.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also monitored hospitals and poison control centers during this period, and reported on 2 May 2007 that there had been no increase in reports of kidney disease.
Sales of Yashily branded infant formula increased by 27.3% while sales of the firm's Scient brand declined 0.8%.
While ya dong may legally be prescribed as a tincture by traditional medicine practitioners, in modern times, with legal restriction on alcohol production, it has become associated with illegal spirit production and is often described in English as moonshine.
At least 58 people died from consumption of tainted liquor and more than 200 people were admitted to hospitals.
According to Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders), a minimum of 2,601 people died in Russia as a result of methanol poisoning between 2015 and 2025.
Incident On 18 May 2008, some people from the Bangalore Urban, Bangalore Rural and Kolar district in the state of Karnataka and neighbouring Krishnagiri district in the state of Tamil Nadu, consumed moonshine (illicit liquor) made with camphor and tobacco.
On 16 September, the AQSIQ tests on baby milk powder produced by 109 companies showed 69 batches from 22 companies to be melamine-contaminated; the State Council attempted to reassure that formula produced by most companies in China was safe.
An investigation found that most of the victims had bought a cheap liquor from hole in the wall stores in bid to evade the tax rates on Malaysian alcohols that range from 150–560%.
It is consumed in many district of Himachal Pradesh, such as kinnaur, Lahaul and Spiti, Chamba, Kullu and Kangra.
However, other substances such as cocaine have also been laced with opioids that resulted in illness and death.
The 2001 publication of Judith Miller's Germs: Biological Weapons and America's Secret War, which contained an analysis and detailed description of the events, also brought discussion of the incident back into the news.
Since May 2018, methanol has been banned in the European Union for use in windscreen washing or defrosting due to the risk of human consumption.
Ehrlich reagent can only detect drugs with an indole moiety, but this is useful because drugs from the NBOMe class do not have an indole and are often sold as LSD which does.
Arak or araq (Arabic: عرق, Hebrew: ערק), is a distilled Levantine spirit of the anise drinks family.
The 2018 Malaysia methanol poisonings occurred in September 2018 in three states and two federal territories in Malaysia comprising Selangor (64 cases), Kuala Lumpur and Putrajaya (18 cases), Perak (13 cases) and Negeri Sembilan (3 cases).
Maiden Pharmaceuticals produced the cough syrup in question, and it has been implicated in child deaths in Gambia.
History and etymology The substance first appeared in America and was thought to be a unique chemical compound before being identified as a mixture of drugs.
In June 2008, the company acquired the yoghurt and dairy dessert business of Nestlé Australia, which it on-sold to Parmalat Australia in December 2015.
The first four Unabomber crimes happened in Chicago and its suburbs from 1978 to 1980, and Kaczynski's parents had a suburban Chicago home in Lombard, Illinois, in 1982, where he stayed occasionally.
The official descriptions of the ACS levels of purity is documented in the Reagent Chemicals publication, issued by the ACS.
The crisis escalated in February 2013 when some Findus products were found to contain as much as 100% horsemeat instead of beef.
The "fridge test" for adulteration was evaluated by scientists at the Olive Center at the University of California, Davis.
charcoal), to interfere with color-based drug tests (mixing thiocyanates and iron salts or cobalt salts forms deep red complexes in solution), to make the mixture undetectable by drug sniffing dogs (activated carbon may sufficiently absorb trace odors).
In Israel During the age of austerity in the early years of the State of Israel, arak (in Hebrew, ערק) was locally made, with few imports.
In 2012, a study in India across 29 states and union territories found that milk was adulterated with detergent, fat, and even urea, and diluted with water.
Reagent testing is one of the processes used to identify substances contained within a pill, usually illicit substances.
Causes of this damage are associated with iodine, phosphorus and other toxic substances that are present after synthesis.
While at the time of the scare the company's market share collapsed from 35 percent to 8 percent, it rebounded in less than a year, a move credited to the company's prompt and aggressive reaction.
Research According to researchers, food adulteration has existed from historical times and is still prevalent.
Desi daru (Hindi: देसी दारू), also known as country liquor or Indian-made Indian liquor (IMIL), is a local category of liquor produced on the Indian subcontinent, as opposed to Indian-made foreign liquor.
Hooch is brewed from industrial alcohol, by separating methyl alcohol and adding water – a risky process which can leave traces of poisonous methyl alcohol.
Indian authorities started investigating an April 2023 allegation that a pharmaceutical regulator in Haryana state, who holds a senior position in the state health department, accepted a bribe and switched samples of contaminated cough syrup before the state government laboratory tested them.
These incidents are often – but not exclusively – associated with methanol poisoning of the victims, where toxic methyl alcohol is used as a cheap way, as compared to the proper use of ethanol, to increase the alcohol content of moonshine.
Several governments, including Australia, updated their travel advisories, warning citizens about the dangers of unregulated local alcohol in Southeast Asia.
Greenpeace campaign director Chris Harris said only 4 per cent of palm oil came from sustainable sites.
Shortly after that, 2-hydroxyethoxyacetaldehyde (C4H8O3) is metabolized by the enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) to the weak acid 2-hydroxyethoxyacetic acid (HEAA), chemical formula C4H8O4.
From 2015, however, several upscale bars have developed their own versions, and the drink has also been introduced to the United States.
Twenty-two-year-old Viktoria Nikolaeva (Russian: Виктория Николаева), who was being treated in the intensive station of Akdeniz University's hospital in Antalya, died due to brain damage in the evening hours of June 20, 2011.
This included a surge of victims within a 72-hour period in January 2025, during which at least 30 people died.
While the medical establishment ditched ptomaine theory by the 1930s, it remained in the public consciousness until the late 1960s and early 1970s.
Similarly, a WHO investigation attributed dozens of child deaths in the Gambia to four Indian cough syrups contaminated with ethylene glycol or diethylene glycol.
This is a list of foodborne illness outbreaks by death toll, caused by infectious disease, heavy metals, chemical contamination, or from natural toxins, such as those found in poisonous mushrooms.
Pharmaceutical company Baxter International subcontracted the creation of precursor chemicals of heparin to Scientific Protein Laboratories, an American company with production facilities located in China.
Tharra (Hindi: ठर्रा, Urdu: ٹھرا) is a type of Desi daru which is locally, and often illegally, brewed alcoholic drink in the Indian subcontinent, mainly India and Pakistan.
The rise in bootleg alcohol production has been attributed to increased government taxes on legal alcoholic beverages.
Following the tragedy, the police conducted more than 8,000 raids in the state, booking 6,713 persons for violation of prohibition On 14 July, the police announced that Vinod Chauhan, the prime accused had managed to slip out of Gujarat.
It is usually made during the summer season, as the weather and environment help the fermentation process.
The L-tryptophan was produced by a bacterium grown in open vats in a Showa Denko fertilizer factory.
The WHO has since then tried to re-create the poisoning in laboratory animals with less-than-satisfactory results.
The 2008 Chinese milk scandal is among the few known events about the harm caused by the addition of melamine in milk.
For example, the presence of foreign elements may have important effects on the mechanical and magnetic properties of metal alloys.
Financial results For the six months ended 30 June 2012, Yashili group's revenue amounted to RMB1,689.1 million, a 17.0% increase compared to the same period of the preceding year.
In 2012 the UK's leading dairy farmer co-operative Milk Link joined Arla Foods Amba, to become one of the largest and most successful European Dairy Co-operatives.
Diagnosis of this illness is usually based on clinical findings and no single laboratory test is available.
In 2021, 860 kg (1,900 lb) of black cocaine disguised as charcoal, in 30 sacks among 1,364 sacks of charcoal, were seized in Spain, one of the biggest cocaine seizures recorded in Castilla y León.
The Gujarat alcohol poisonings occurred in July 2009 in Gujarat, resulting in the death of 136 people from consumption of bootleg liquor.
Results of the scandal Although there were no official findings of large-scale trouble with meat supplies, the newspapers stirred up public opinion on the subject.
Marihuana prensada or cannabis prensado (pressed cannabis or marijuana), also known as ladrillo (brick weed) or, colloquially, paragua or paraguayo is a compressed cannabis cut into blocks that facilitate transport.
Pure beryl will appear colorless but this rarely occurs and the presence of trace elements change its color.
Galician journalist and writer Fernando Rodríguez Méndez investigated this case for five years and published several books that have returned this story of money, poison and death to the present.
Mostly, the poisoning incidents have been reported from rural areas, where denatured spirit's use has proliferated due to illegal manufacturing facilities.
Use Although cannabis can be found in foods, beverages, cosmetics, etc., marihuana prensada is exclusively smoked in the form of a cigarette (joint).
Reported fipronil concentrations The maximum residue limit (MRL) of fipronil in eggs is set at the detection limit of 0.005 mg/kg within the European Union, as is outlined in Regulation (EC) No 396/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 February 2005.
Semiconductors that are p-doped contains a small amount of elements that have less valence electrons then the other elements in the crystal.
Clandestine and fraudulent production Clandestine liquor production is still prevalent, but it is seen more as a tradition than a business as it would be difficult to compete with the nationally produced guaro.
An invoice dated September 25, 1984, from the American Type Culture Collection of microbes was discovered, showing an order received by the Rajneeshpuram laboratory for Salmonella typhi, the bacterium that causes the life-threatening illness typhoid fever.
Department of Agriculture announced that the meat of 345 hogs that had eaten contaminated feed had entered the U.S.
International criticisms Since 1992, an average of around 1,000 people have died from drinking alcohol illegally, which has caused much international concern.
It also mentions in passing the product makes use of "NPN" which is an acronym for non-protein nitrogen.
The court of inquiry In the months following the 1898 Spanish–American War, during a court of inquiry held to investigate problems in the U.S.
Wu Heping, secretary general of the Heilongjiang Dairy Industry Association noted that between 75% and 90% of raw milk in some provinces had failed to reach the old protein level standard (in place since 1986) in 2007 and 2008.
The Czech government established a central emergency response council and banned the sale of liquors with more than 30% alcohol by volume at food stands on 12 September 2012.
Similar incidents A similar incident, the Pärnu methanol poisoning incident, occurred in Pärnu county, Estonia, in September 2001, when 68 people died and 43 were left disabled after contents of stolen methanol canisters were used in production of bootleg liquor.
Since yellow fever frequently causes symptoms similar to bacterial food poisoning (fever, vomiting, severe or bloody diarrhea), little connection was made at the time between illness and consumption of the Chicago beef.
Alger Francis Buzzacott, army scout and writer who testified in support of Miles Further reading Laurie Winn Carlson, Cattle: An Informal Social History, Ivan R.
Most of those who died were economically and socially backward Dalits from Kallakurichi, and nearby villages.
The colonial government had banned the sale of local liquor (Pelele) and so the women carrying milk also carried Pelele disguised as milk.
Background In April 2016, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar enacted legislation banning the sale and consumption of alcohol in the Bihar.
In December 2023, Yili Group established an internal militia unit reporting to the People's Liberation Army within the company.
Zone refining, another purification method, is an economically important method for the purification of semiconductors.
Since over-sulfated chondroitin is not a naturally occurring molecule, costs a fraction of true heparin starting material, and mimics the in-vitro properties of heparin, the counterfeit was almost certainly intentional as opposed to an accidental lapse in manufacturing.
Local economy It is often consumed by poor or landless tillers, typically distilled with the connivance of officials and police officers, generating large profits.
The drinks contained methanol, a toxic chemical that, when ingested, can lead to blindness or death from nervous system paralysis.
This approach is intended to accommodate the use of geographical indications in handicrafts like embroidery or ceramics.
It is consumed on festive occasions, religious festivals and other social gatherings.Jhol یا Jhol (هندی: Jhol) یک نوشیدنی الکلی است که در ایالت هیماچال پرادش در شمال هند تولید می شود .
In the United States and other countries, the use of denatured alcohol unsuitable for beverages avoids excise taxes on alcohol.
Cases of mass methanol poisoning have occurred in Thailand from the production and distribution of ya dong.
Arrests By 22 June 2015, seven people had been arrested, and eight police officers were suspended for negligence, in connection with the incident.
Reactions After the incident, there had been demands for repealing the prohibition of alcohol in the state.
The water used to make the drink in illegal breweries is also often below acceptable health standards and sometimes contaminated with sewage.
Health concerns The brew is often doctored in unsafe and poisonous ways, and its regular abuse frequently has resulted in alcohol poisoning related hospitalizations, blindness, and death.
In the month of May there were large gatherings in the prefectures and sub-prefectures of Languedoc-Roussillon.
The term desi daru usually refers to legal alcohol while other types of country liquor (arrack and palm toddy) may be categorised as moonshine alcohol.
Considering this is a grape-growing country, the reader will be astonished to learn that little wine is comparatively made in it, and of that little, not much is used by the natives, for here let me tell the reader that the Syrians are by no means partial to liquors of any kind.
The accused was convicted in the lower court and upon appeal, Odisha High Court confirmed the life sentence awarded to Belu alias Surendra Das, the prime accused in the 1992 Cuttack hooch tragedy.
These stereotypes create a sense that nothing can be done to help a paco addict and thus stand in the way of rehabilitation programs.
Its popularity has soared in the last decade, in part due to its strongly addictive effect and lower price than other common drugs.
In fact, one might expect a refined seed oil with very high oleic acid content (such as high oleic sunflower oil) to be more likely to solidify in the refrigerator, based on their fatty acid composition and lack of minor compounds.
There is evidence that Xuzhou Anying, despite being a food ingredient supplier, has sought out large quantities of melamine in the past.
It is one of China's leading dairy companies and is listed as an A share company on the Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE).
It is an essential part of numerous religious and social ceremonies; Burutu (Ijaw) priests pour it onto the ground as offerings to contact their gods, while fathers of Nigerian brides use it as a libation by which they provide their official blessing to a wedding.
Consumption of large doses of cocaine can cause violent outbursts, especially by those with preexisting psychosis.
Clinical descriptions generally divides the illness into three stages: an acute phase lasting approximately two months, followed by an intermediate phase of about two to three months and a chronic phase.
129) such that no vegetable substance resembling coffee was permitted on the premises of licensed coffee dealers.
In the mystery novel The Madness of Crowds (2021), 17th book of the Chief Inspector Armand Gamache series, one of the characters, Haniya Daoud, from Sudan, describes how brown-brown was used on child soldiers.
Ya dong (Thai: ยาดอง 'infused medicine'), or more specifically ya dong lao (ยาดองเหล้า 'spirit-infused medicine'), is a form of Thai herbal alcoholic drink, consisting of medicinal herbs infused in a spirit, typically lao khao.
Official response The Government of West Bengal paid $4,000 to the family of each victim and arrested seven people for distributing the liquor.
He had some psychiatric patients that claimed they only smoked pot but their drug tests were positive for methamphetamine use.
Chairman of the Federation Council Valentina Matviyenko publicly supported additional regulations on alcohol-containing liquids, and Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Khloponin proposed accomplishing something similar by requiring pharmaceutical prescriptions.
Health concerns According to a study done in Pakistan, homemade liquor Tharra contain many impurities and is often injurious to health.
It is popular in Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and Panama, although in many places the word "guaro" can refer to almost any liquor.
Lotoko, also known by the slang term pétrole, is a home-distilled alcoholic drink or moonshine in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Naresh Kumar Goyal, the founder of Maiden Pharmaceuticals, previously denied any wrongdoing in the syrup production.
What began as a local alert revealed a global problem in more than 30 countries and involving more than thirty brands.
The Poisoner's Handbook: Murder and the Birth of Forensic Medicine in Jazz Age New York (Penguin Press, February 18, 2010) Burns, Eric.
Two hundred seventy-six people were admitted in various hospitals with nearly 100 of them in intensive care units.
Outbreaks of methanol poisoning occur every year with thousands of people affected, mostly in Asia with people drinking bootlegged liquor or homemade alcohol.
On 16 October, Ting Hsin announced that it will leave Taiwan's oil market and donate NT$3 billion toward food safety under the supervision of Ruentex Financial Group (潤泰集團) Chairman Samuel Yin.
Synthesis It is produced by the diesterification of sebacic acid (decanedioic acid) with 4-hydroxy-TEMPO.
Czech Republic The 2012 Czech Republic methanol poisonings occurred in September 2012 in the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia.
Social issues Country liquor, being the cheapest alcohol in India, is the mainstay alcoholic beverage for the rural population and urban poor.
More than 200 people died after drinking illegally brewed poisonous liquor; another 600 people were hospitalised.
Attempts to revive the pure beer movement were nullified by the commission's report, and by the fact that arsenic was present in malted barley as well as sugar.
All six—the Januses, Mary McFarland (31), Paula Prince (35), and Mary Reiner (27)—would ultimately die from consuming the pills.
The State Council also stated that businesses that use recycled oil would be forced to close temporarily or lose their business license while peddlers who sell the oil could be criminally prosecuted.
Public health and medical concerns In 2024, it was detected as an adulterant in illicitly sold fentanyl in the United States.
The product shared its name with a popular hawthorn-flavored tincture, and vodka historian Alexander Nikishin told the magazine Vice that was a deliberate choice to obfuscate its intended purpose: The name Boyaryshnik is used to hide the nature of this product.
Threats A series of letters and emails were sent to Tesco, threatening to contaminate baby food with salmonella, white powder and knives.
Food contaminant detection methods The conventional food contaminant test methods may be limited by complicated/tedious sample preparing procedure, long testing time, sumptuous instrument, and professional operator.
Six other accomplices were given brief custodial sentences; about a dozen were sentenced to time served.
"It looked well, but had an odor similar to that of a dead human body after being injected with formaldehyde, and it tasted when first cooked like decomposed boric acid ..." As for the canned product, Miles reported, during the war he had received many complaints about its poor quality.
Chang'aa is usually much cheaper and stronger than other alcoholic drinks, making it the beverage of choice for many.
Notorious bootlegger Marimuthu (who later became a councillor of BBMP) and Ameer Jan were running the operation.
Kumi Kumi is so named for its cheap price, KSh.10/= for a mug, which in 2006 comes to roughly US$0.15.
Of these, 56 were in urban Bangalore, 27 were in rural Bangalore, 32 were in Kolar, and 41 were in Krishnagiri.
Background Illegal home-brewed liquor is consumed in various parts of India due to its cheaper price compared to the commercially available brands.
The owner of Massengill, when pressed to admit some measure of culpability, infamously answered, "We have been supplying a legitimate professional demand and not once could have foreseen the unlooked-for results.
Alternatives include sugar-cane juice—extracted and fermented in the same way—and boiled mashes of cassava or millet, chosen according to local crop patterns.
Coca paste (paco, basuco, oxi, pasta) is a crude extract of the coca leaf which contains 40% to 91% cocaine freebase along with companion coca alkaloids and varying quantities of benzoic acid, methanol, kerosene, and other extraction chemicals.
Afterward, members of Sheela's team spread Salmonella on produce in grocery stores and on doorknobs and urinal handles in the county courthouse, but these actions did not produce the desired effects.
Two other Russian citizens, Maria Shalyapina (Russian: Мария Шаляпина), born in 1983, and Aigul Zalayeva (Russian: Айгуль Залаева), born in 1991, died in the following days at the hospital of Akdeniz University in Antalya.
Ma was criticized by the opposition Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) for his handling of the scandal.
The Dutch government later gave a donation to victims’ families, framing it as a humanitarian gesture rather than an admission of state liability.
The Massengill Company paid a minimum fine under provisions of the 1906 Pure Food and Drugs Act, which prohibited labeling the preparation an "elixir" if it contained no ethanol.
The milk drawn from the cows was routinely adulterated with water, rotten eggs, flour, burnt sugar, and other adulterants with the finished product then marketed falsely as "pure country milk" or "Orange County Milk".
As a result, Marion Biotech, was suspended from Pharmexcil, an Indian government-linked trade group.
On December 30, 2022, the Indian government's Drug Standards Control Center and Uttar Pradesh state government's Drug Control Department inspected Marion Biotech's manufacturing plant in Noida, Uttar Pradesh.
Strictly speaking, a material's level of purity can only be stated as being more or less pure than some other material.
According to a World Health Organisation (WHO) report, which revealed that more than 11% of Indians were binge drinkers.
Reprocessing of used cooking oil is often very rudimentary; techniques include filtration, boiling, refining, and the removal of some adulterants.
Poor people prefer illicit liquor as it is cheaper than Indian Made Foreign Liquor, which was the main reason for the incident.
For the sweets produced in Bradford, the confectioner was supposed to purchase powdered gypsum, but a mistake at the wholesale chemist meant arsenic was purchased instead.
Methamphetamine can be made from ephedrine, one of the naturally occurring alkaloids in ephedra (Ephedra sinica).
Reagent testers might show the colour of the desired substance while not showing a different colour for a more dangerous additive.
Over the course of several days, 38 people in the Czech Republic and four people in Poland died as a result of methanol poisoning and many others were hospitalised.
Legacy Sections 3, 4, 6, 7 8, 10, 2 and 5 of the act were continued until the end of the next session of parliament after 5 years from the expiration of those enactments by section 8 of the Continuance of Laws Act 1722 (9 Geo.
Second, if the poisonous or deleterious substance is unavoidable and is within an established tolerance, regulatory limit, or action level, the food will not be deemed to be adulterated.
Within a few months, the TOCP-adulterated Jake was identified as the cause of the paralysis, and the contaminated Jake was recovered.
Black tar heroin, also known as black dragon, is a form of heroin that is sticky like tar or hard like coal.
Investigation The scandal unraveled on 27 July 1981 after a food inspector in San Diego, California, became suspicious of three blocks of frozen Australian boneless beef that were "darker and stringier" than beef should be.
Led by police vice president Václav Kučera, a special police team called Metyl coordinated the investigations.
History AQSIQ was formed as the successor government body to the State Bureau of Quality and Technological Supervision (SBQTS).
Maistrišin was convicted and sentenced to five years of imprisonment, and Sobolev was sentenced to 2.5 years of imprisonment.
Despite its poor quality, its use is widely spread among the lower classes throughout South America.
It said leading government officials in Shijiazhuang city had failed to report the contamination to provincial and state authorities (until 9 September) in violation of rules on reporting major incidents involving food safety.
coli O157:H7 is the only pathogen that is considered an adulterant when present in raw meat or poultry products.
In 1965, a report published by the Planning Commission, Government of India, noted that there was a ban on the sale of Lugdi, but it was being sold despite the ban.
On December 14, victims admitted to hospitals complained about stomach pain, diarrhea and breathing problems.
Fosun's holding has since decreased; as of January 2013 Fosun owned 2.98% of Yashili International Holdings although it still has two directors on the board.
Rimmington later made an analysis of the lozenges which showed each contained between eleven and sixteen grains (710 and 1,040 mg).
The whole act was repealed for England and Wales by section 101(1) of, and the first part of the fourth schedule to, the Food and Drugs Act 1938 (1 & 2 Geo.
Mickey Mouse was seen as a symbol of foreign countries, and so the packaging was redesigned to feature a naturalistically-drawn white rabbit and an artist's paint palette, with Chinese and English hand-lettering in a color scheme of red, blue and black against a white background.
Dotse about his life under British colonial rule: "Our contention was that the drink the white man brought is the same as ours.
The greater affinity of these substances for the μ-opioid receptor impedes the activity of naloxone, which is an antagonist at the receptor.
On the same day, three people were arrested in connection with the case and were incarcerated at Cuddalore Central Prison.
In 1904 and 1905, again because of the weather, harvests were abundant throughout continental Europe.
Since the civil war, however, the companies' profits and the price of arak have declined, with their combined market share falling to under half.
Conviction Nigel Wright was convicted of three charges of blackmail, two charges of contaminating food and a further charge of blackmail for demanding £150,000 worth of bitcoin from a driver with whom he had a road-rage altercation.
Stalin announced an ex gratia of ₹1 million (US$12,000) for the family of the deceased and ₹50,000 (US$590) for the injured.
Federal agencies often will coordinate with state or local authorities to remove unsafe food from the market as quickly as possible.
The Dutch owners of ChickFriend were arrested during a large scale operation conducted by Dutch law enforcement agencies on 10 August.
He was procuring various types of alcohol and spirits from Punjab and Delhi and this time supplied the three drums of methanol, which were used to make the spurious methanol-based alcohol.
Under the new law, chang'aa must be manufactured, distributed and sold in glass bottles, and retailers must display health warning signs.
The All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Rishikesh, Uttarakhand, received about 93 patients of methanol poisoning over a four-day period.
Official count of victims is 51 dead and 9 blind, but estimates of number of victims vary between 1,000 and 5,000 dead.
Availability of cheap spurious alcohol (known as hooch) is a problem around the Tannery Road area of the Bangalore Cantonment, with many dwellers getting addicted.
Investigations Because the use of fipronil is illegal in the production of food for human consumption in Europe, a criminal investigation was initiated.
Waragi (pronounced [ˈwaɾaɡi], also known as kasese) is a generic term in Uganda for domestic distilled beverages.
These theories often claim that the USAF in Torrejón de Ardoz was involved in the origin of the epidemic.
Enforcement of controls on precursor chemicals General The Multilateral Chemical Reporting Initiative encourages governments to exchange information on a voluntary basis in order to monitor international chemical shipments.
Vang Vieng is a rural town in northern Laos known for excessive drinking, the easy availability of drugs, and river tubing.
Accordingly, the European Union sets extremely stringent limits for dioxin and dioxin like PCBs in food, set just above the usual background levels found in various food categories e.g.
In October 2019, twenty-two people were injured in Chon Buri province, five of whom died, from a contaminated batch of ya dong.
Śarāb (Hindi शराब and Urdu شراب) is another Arabic-derived equivalent and is used in some areas with somewhat less frequency.
List of heads Li Changjiang (April 2001 – September 2008) Wang Yong (September 2008 – August 2010) Zhi Shuping (August 2010 – March 2018) Hou Jianguo served as party secretary from May 2017 to March 2018.
Incident According to police, relatives of those who were killed claimed that the victims died due to the consumption of poisonous liquor in the Doila and Yadu Mot villages of the Saran district.
The Fabrica Nacional de Licores (National Liquor Factory) was founded for this reason, and since 1980 produces the only legal brand, Cacique Guaro.
The situation becomes more serious because it is hard to distinguish reprocessed gutter oil from legitimate oil.
Investigation Three First Information Report (FIR)s were lodged in the police stations of Barwala and Ranpur in Botad district against 20 people under multiple sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Gujarat Prohibition Act.
The barcodes consist of magnetically recoverable silica particles containing synthetic DNA sequences, which are added to the oil in a very small amount (down to 1 ppb) and can be retrieved at any time for authenticity test by PCR/sequencing.
Local NGOs have expressed concern as to its health effects in the communities of Kinshasa, where it costs 200 to 300 FC, compared to 600 FC for commercially brewed beers.
See also Black cocaine References External links National Drug Threat Assessment 2005, National Drug Intelligence Center.
11) was an act of the Parliament of Great Britain concerning the adulteration of coffee, which made it illegal to debase coffee.
Process Waragi is typically made from fermented plant materials such as banana, cassava, millet and sugar cane.
Its composition is tightly defined by government regulations in countries that tax alcoholic beverages.
The Veterinary Corps' founding on June 3, 1916, was partially sparked due to the medical incompetence displayed in the beef scandal.
Denatured alcohol has no advantages for any purpose over normal ethanol; it is a public policy compromise.
Growing attention to the poor and unsanitary conditions of city dairies emerged notably in the 1840s, with the publication of Robert M.
The victims were supposed to get compensation, but due to bankruptcies they did not receive the money.
It was announced that "dioxins & dioxin like PCBs", a group of highly toxic synthetic halogenated organic compounds, had been discovered in pork at levels between 80 and 200 times the EU's recommended safety limits.
Pointing out that Bihar is a state where alcohol prohibition has been in place since 2016, the Chief Minister asked people to be more cautious in this regard.
The factory was staffed with a group of 26 blenders who formed the Association of Uganda Distillers and Vitners, which was headed by Joel Sentamu.
In February 2019, nearly 100 people died after drinking contaminated alcohol in two neighboring states of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand in northern India.
That company will be a wholly owned subsidiary of Yashili's New Zealand subsidiary Yashili International Holdings Ltd, which will establish and operate the New Zealand facility.
Although the White Rabbit brand already had some history, its popularity worldwide has grown with the economy of China.
22 October: Hong Kong scientists find excessive levels of melamine in a brand of mainland eggs; S Korea finds melamine in Chinese powdered eggs 23 October: Six more people are arrested in connection with the tainted milk scandal.
Levamisole-induced necrosis syndrome Levamisole-induced necrosis syndrome (LINES) is a complication characterized by necrosis resulting from exposure to levamisole, a medication with immunomodulatory properties.
Folin's—Mandelin Marquis—Simon's Custom reagents See also Counterfeit medications Drug checking Harm reduction == References ==
The people arrested are believed to have transported the liquor to workers and include two women: Mamta Rathod (aged 30) and Agnes Gracy alias Aunty (aged 50).
The following represent examples of different types of contamination based on these and other variances.
In a statement the FSAI recommended "that cattle which are locked down from these 21 farms should now be slaughtered and not allowed enter the food chain".
Silvercrest, a subsidiary of ABP Foods has claimed that there is no risk to the public upon eating the foreign meat.
Harrison Reed and William Tucker, shielded the dairies and turned the hearings into one-sided exercises designed to make dairy critics and established health authorities look ridiculous, even going to the extent of arguing that swill milk was as good or better for children than regular milk.
Congress leaders urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to speak up on the toxic liquor deaths and meet the bereaved families.
Even though the pharmacist published warnings, more people were poisoned, and altogether 16 people died on Canary Islands of Lanzarote, La Gomera and Tenerife.
The 2008 Karnataka-Tamil Nadu alcohol poisonings was an incident in the southern Indian states of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu in May 2008 in which 180 people reportedly died after consuming illicit liquor.
Writing systems When a constructed language has multiple writing systems, the following BCP 47 tags can be used to differentiate between them.
Matija Majar, also spelled Majer (7 February 1809 – 31 July 1892), pseudonym Ziljski, was a Carinthian Slovene Roman Catholic priest and political activist, best known as the creator of the idea of a United Slovenia.
In the 2007 animated film Ratatouille, the character chef Auguste Gusteau's first name and last name are verlans of each other.
Blissymbols differ from most of the world's major writing systems in that the characters do not correspond at all to the sounds of any spoken language.
28 October] 1885 – 28 June 1922), was a Russian poet and playwright, a central part of the Russian Futurist movement, but his work and influence stretch far beyond it.
In this vein, Parkinson wrote: Leibniz's views about the systematic character of all knowledge are linked with his plans for a universal symbolism, a Characteristica Universalis.
History According to Tobias Churton in his text The Golden Builders, the concept of an Angelic or antediluvian language was common during Dee's time.
Some common clusters are: Vowel Absence The absence of vowel phonemes in consonant clusters or after word-end consonants is marked by the absence of vowel letters.
Schleyer himself never agreed with this essential limitation of his copyright, and when Kerckhoffs offered to block reform of Volapük, Schleyer dismissed in its entirety the whole Academy.
Lidia, in particular, took a keen interest in Esperanto, and as an adult became a teacher of the language, travelling through Europe and to America to teach classes in it.
When the mountains are hit by a thunderstorm, Dominic rushes to her rescue and finds Veronica chanting in Sanskrit.
In 2016, he was awarded the Neil and Saras Smith Medal for Linguistics by the British Academy "for his outstanding lifetime contribution to the field of linguistics".
Rules Example : 食饭 → 手习花散 [sit fan] → [siu jit fa san]; eat (rice) → hand + learn + flower + separation.
The language is used for the second time in song in Enya's 2015 album Dark Sky Island, on two tracks which follow the 'intergalactic' theme of the title - "The Forge of The Angels" and "The Loxian Gates".
The characteristic has also been claimed as an ancestor of the pictographic Energy Systems Language and associated Emergy Synthesis of Odum's Systems Ecology (Cevolatti and Maud, 2004).
La ricerca della lingua perfetta nella cultura europea (The Search for the Perfect Language (the Making of Europe); trans.
A palatalized consonant is marked with a hacek, a nasalized vowel with a tilde: ã (among other things, nasalization marks the accusative case; a long vowel by a circumflex: â If stress is not marked, it falls on the last non-schwa vowel preceding the last consonant of the word.
Structures of this sort may with some adroitness be made to stand; but their equilibrium is unstable, and sooner or later they will inevitably tumble over.
For example, words beginning with 'sol', which include no repeating syllables, have meanings related to arts or sciences (e.g.
Based in Amsterdam, Netherlands, its main functions are the propagation of the language, arranging the yearly conferences in which Ido speakers gather, and the publishing of the magazine Progreso (Progress), begun in 1908 by Louis Couturat, one of the founders of the movement who died in 1914.
As a historian, Baumann published work on the history of Bavaria and Bavarian culture, publishing a book Bavarian trade in the 18th Century, especially under Elector Maximilian III Joseph: Cultural-historical Studies from Archive Sources (German: Das bayerische Handelswesen im 18.
Background "Sanomi" was written in an imaginary language by Yves Barbieux, a member of the Belgian folk music band Urban Trad, of which he was a part along with Verónica Codesal, Marie-Sophie Talbot, Didier Laloy, Dirk Naessens, Cédric Waterschoot, Soetkin Collier, Philip Masure, and Michel Morvan.
In 2010, back slang was reported to have been adopted for the sake of privacy on foreign tennis courts by the young English players Laura Robson and Heather Watson.
"Centre de documentation et d'étude sur la langue internationale (CDELI)" [Esperanto Studies] (in Esperanto and French).
He (as he/she then is) is caged in "The Mask Factory", and his captors fear him much more than any of their other creations.
BCI is an international group of people who act as an authority regarding the standardization of the Blissymbolics language.
Early life Childhood Claude Vivier is believed to have been born on 14 April 1948 in the vicinity of Montréal, Québec, and was voluntarily placed in the orphanage of La Crèche Saint-Michel (no longer in operation) that same day by his mother.
When Dawn tries to pay for the lesson, Don stops her and reveals his intention: to con people out of their money by teaching them a fraudulent language.
Dalgarno was also interested in constructing what he called a 'philosophical language', now more usually referred to as universal language.
In an interview, Sotomayor stated that she aimed for Kēlen to be naturalistic apart from its verblessness, and that to achieve this she employs the principle "change one thing and keep everything else the same".
In addition to the above eight official members, Ralph Midgley, former governor (guvan) of Volapük, was also on the board of the Academy as a deputy prior to his death in 2024.
Languages of Almea described on the website include: Most words in those languages have etymologies, being derived from proto-languages (like Proto-Eastern above) by means of sound changes, and are given historical backgrounds, resulting in the presence of loan-words.
Higley in her book Hildegard of Bingen's Unknown Language: An edition, translation and discussion (Palgrave Macmillan 2007), The New Middle Ages ISBN 1-4039-7673-2, ISBN 978-1-4039-7673-4) where she discusses Lingua Ignota in the context of constructed languages up to the present day.
References Further reading "Provisional notes on cataloging in the A-ka-u-ku (Bamum) script, in the Shümom and Bamum languages | Yale University Library".
She has also written numerous short stories, about equally divided between fantasy and science fiction, which have appeared in various anthologies and collections over the last twenty years.
References External links Proposal for Encoding the Mwangwego Script, Unicode Article on designing a font for the script, Endangered Alphabets
Clearly, the words 食 and 饭 are each split into two sounds, the initial and the rime, thus 食 [sit] is made up of the initial of 手 [s] and the rime of 习 [it], and similarly, 饭 [fan] is [f] from 花 and [an] from 散.
To a far lesser, though still significant extent, Sorang Sompeng is learned, taught, read, and written for secular educational and literary purposes in Sora communities, primarily in the Indian states of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh.
The features were based on 40 tokens of misunderstanding between speakers from Japan and Switzerland, and were intended as subject to further empirical testing and fine-tuning.
It has a small number of phonemes, so that regional "accents" are less likely to produce unintelligible speech.
meni "meni bibel" my books) tu (you, singular), te (you, singular/object), ten (your(s) singular; pl.
Sananmuunnos ("Word transformation"), sometimes kääntösana, is a sort of verbal play in the Finnish language, similar to spoonerisms in English.
Hupé suggests that synaesthetic colour experience lies not in the brain's colour system, but instead results from "a complex construction of meaning in the brain, involving not only perception, but language, memory and emotion".
This is similar to the traditional Chinese practice of representing sounds by two characters known as fanqie.
He was commissioned into the Royal Army Service Corps and was selected for the Airborne Company, where he worked as a brigade liaison.
The first drafts were published online in 2001, while the complete form was published in the 2014 book Toki Pona: The Language of Good (referred to as lipu pu in Toki Pona).
In 2011, Phillips launched the BiteyCastle Effects Academy (BCA FX), a subscription-based series of video tutorials teaching how to do 2D animated visual effects.
The circumstances of what exactly happened that night and early the following morning are still a matter of speculation, but Dolzan would later say that he accepted Vivier's invitation with the intention of robbing and killing him.
Then each of the fore-parents goes forth and brings back another ler of the appropriate gender, the "after-parents".
This effort brought him into contact with members of the Oxford Philosophical Club, one of the precursors of the Royal Society.
The untranslated texts of the Liber Loagaeth manuscript recall the patterns of glossolalia rather than true language.
Background and release "Heaven" was written by Andreas Schuller, Leroy Clampitt, Sebastian Barac, Marcel Botezan, Laila Samulesen, Trey Campbell and Theea Eliza Miculescu, while production was handled by Barac and Botezan.
Near the end of his life, Leibniz wrote that combining metaphysics with mathematics and science through a universal character would require creating what he called: ...
It uses 24 of the 26 letters of the ISO basic Latin alphabet, "w" and "y" are not used, and has three additional letters "œ", "ü" and "σ" which comes from the Greek alphabet.
For his US book tour, Tammet appeared on several television and radio talk shows and specials, including 60 Minutes and the Late Show with David Letterman.
Translation "Visiting by chance the 2nd World Congress of Esperanto in Geneva (in 1906), I became an Esperantist and took part there in the founding of the International Scientific Esperantist Association, of which I was elected secretary.
BSO failed to attract investment for a further development phase after 1990, and DLT was abandoned unfinished.
Jacobs and Hergé became close collaborators and greatly influenced each other, while together they developed the plot for the next Adventure of Tintin, The Seven Crystal Balls, which began serialisation in Le Soir in December 1943.
Dum mia laboro por la reformo de Esperanto mi ekzamenis ne nur la projekton Ido, sed ankaŭ la interlingvojn el la skolo "naturalisma" (Occidental, Latino sine flexione, ktp.).
Union for the International Language Ido (Ido: Uniono por la Linguo Internaciona Ido, ULI) is the official union of the Ido-language movement from 1910.
Esperanto II was one of several languages investigated by the International Auxiliary Language Association, the linguistic research body that eventually standardized and presented Interlingua de IALA.
Proposed subdivisions Historically, the term "North Slav" has been used in academia since at least the first half of the 19th century.
This is the variant most used in Brazilian Portuguese, while the others are more common in European Portuguese.
Additionally, Change involves a forced decrease in age of 10 to 20 years, limiting the number of Changes possible in a short period of time.
Appropriately, the very term sananmuunnos is one; it becomes munansaannos, which can be understood as "receiving/providing of sex".
Personal life Overview Vivier was best known among his friends and acquaintances for his extroverted personality, effeminate mannerisms, and distinctive laugh, described by some as being similar to the cackle of a hyena; or, "very loud and a bit creepy".
Yuantang is a subdialect spoken by Hakka speakers at Yuantang (Chinese: 苑塘), a village in southern China.
She vigorously denied the claims, and after an investigation later that year it was concluded that the accusations were exaggerated and based on outdated information.
for the West Slavic and East Slavic languages considered as a combined unit, particularly when contrasted to South Slavic languages.
It was designed to be an intuitive language: Karky said he used hard consonants and soft consonants depending on the nature of the words' meanings.
Background and history In its concultural setting, Kēlen is spoken by an alien species called the Kēleñi, for whom the language was created.
Pasigraphies are purely written languages without a spoken form, or with a spoken form left at the discretion of the reader; many of the 17th–18th century philosophical languages and auxlangs were pasigraphies.
Emphasizing that the quest for a perfect language has never been devoid of ideological motivation, Eco outlines some objections to the idea and suggests that an International Auxiliary Language, such as Esperanto, is a more realistic project.
“English as a global language – What do future teachers have to say?” In *Gnutzmann, Claus; Intemann, Frauke (eds.).
The term "Enochian" comes from Dee's assertion that the Biblical patriarch Enoch had been the last human (before Dee and Kelley) to know the language.
English has Pig Latin, with a similar morphological construction, moving the first consonant to the end of the word and following in with the suffix -ay.
This progresses to multiplication, division, variables, and constants, then propositional logic, set theory, and first-order logic.
The use of Lapine words is often (although not exclusively) used to indicate concepts unique to rabbits, such as silflay (aboveground grazing) or tharn (freezing behavior).
Léopold Leau (1868-1943) was a French mathematician, primarily known for his ties to international auxiliary languages.
As with Leibniz's calculus ratiocinator two different schools of philosophical thought have come to emphasise two different aspects that can be found in Leibniz's writing.
Books in this series so far are: The Levin-Gad (2018) The Landlady (2019) The Librarian (TBA) Star Trek Duane has also written a number of Star Trek novels: Original Series The Wounded Sky.
Gibson of the United States Army Coastal Artillery, which replaces words with numbers using the digits 0-9.
Lingua Franca Nova Boeree was also the inventor of the auxiliary language Lingua Franca Nova (ISO 639-3: lfn), which first appeared in 1998 on the Internet.
The Delegation for the Adoption of an International Auxiliary Language was founded on 7 January 1901 on Leau's initiative.
Some verlan words, which are now well incorporated in common French language, have taken on their own significance, or at least certain connotations that have changed their meaning.
The Zompist Bulletin Board The website has a corresponding bulletin board, formerly hosted with SpinnWebe but now with its own domain at www.verduria.org.
In 1921, he was able to travel to Persia; excited at his arrival, he wrote poems chronicling exciting events and the sights around him.
Esperanto has become "the most outlandishly successful invented language ever" and the most widely spoken constructed international auxiliary language.
ESF also sponsored the creation of the documentary film The Universal Language, and produced the video course Esperanto—Pasporto al la Tuta Mondo (available on YouTube).
Symbols representing a single adjective may be written inside or above the symbol for the preceding word that they modify.
The Pali alphabet, including the Ariyaka script, consists of 41 letters: 6 vowels 2 diphthongs 32 consonants 1 accessory nasal sound (niggahīta) Consonants are further classified into 25 mutes, 6 semivowels, 1 sibilant, and 1 aspirant, with vowels divided into long and short forms.
Other variations send the text through several languages before translating it back into the original or continue translating the text back and forth until it reaches equilibrium (i.e., the result of the back translation is identical to the text used for the forward translation).
Works on psychology Boeree was the author of the first online psychology texts, which he made available at no cost to students and other interested parties starting in 1997.
Modern statistic-based and context-based translation programs are able to produce a better translation.
By advocating a constructed international language, constructed along logical principles and with a vocabulary taken from existing European languages, Couturat was paralleling Peano's advocacy of Interlingua.
Such an origin is credited to two children — Ed "Squirrel" Clement and Lank McGimsey — who started making up words in the summer of 1890.
Names Names are written by enclosing multiple characters in a cartouche shaped like a rounded rectangle.
This promising hypothesis came to nothing because the system was too vulnerable to wind and weather.
Podaná (Greek: ποδανά) is a Greek argot based on rearranging syllables, similar to Verlan and Vesre.
As noted by Boleslas Gajewski: "one should take great care to pause after every word; this slight pause is necessary to separate the words, so that the listener does not become confused".
The fictional language Kiliki (also referred to as Kilikili) spoken by the Kalakeyas, a ferocious warrior tribe, was created by Madhan Karky for the film.
ELF and GEs, describing what people actually do when communicating [simple or not]; and "World Englishes", generally accounting for language features and commonalities by region/group, vs.
Prepositions, conjunctions and interjections are also formed from noun roots by appending appropriate suffixes.
In the year 1976 Weferling even published his autobiography Ek le vive de un oldi interlinguistiker (From the life of an old Interlinguist) in Intal.
sanan muunnos [sa-nan mu-ːnnos] → [mu-nan sa-ːnnos] → munan saannos If necessary, stilted diphthongs are converted into allowed diphthongs as per phonotactics.
Others Breckon, Colin Joseph, "Symbolism as a Written Language", pp.74–83 in Breckon, C.J., Graphic Symbolism, McGraw-Hill, Sydney), 1975.
Vocabulary Example words Numbers Numbers with values in both tens and ones are formed by combining ones number with tens number, and joining them with affix -un-.
Rosario has its "Rosarigasino" method for obfuscating words, and Córdoba has an entirely different set of colloquial conventions.
Martin's description of the language, as well as from such languages as Estonian, Inuktitut, Turkish, Russian, and Swahili.
𞓕 (/a/) + ◌𞓬 → 𞓕𞓬 (/ã/) Example 1: Mundari: 𞓝𞓟𞓕𞓬, IPA: /t̪uãː/ , Translation: Milk/Breast Example 2: Mundari: 𞓧𞓟𞓬 , IPA: /mũː/ , Translation: Nose Vowels preceding or following nasal phonemes like /ŋ/, /ɲ/, /ṇ/, /ɳ/ and /m/ are also nasalised.
Other languages Other languages have similar coded forms but reversing the order of syllables rather than phonemes.
McIntyre) Marion Zimmer Bradley's Fantasy Magazine (1988–2000) Marion Zimmer Bradley's Fantasy Worlds (1998) Spells of Wonder (1989) Sword and Sorceress series (1984–2013) (edited by Marion Zimmer Bradley, after her death by Elisabeth Waters and Diana L.
Because the resulting text can often differ substantially from the original, RTT can also be a source of entertainment.
Background Although Zamenhof's stated preference was to avoid any discussion of changes, he was put under considerable pressure, including financial, to respond to the diverse reforms proposed by others.
This set historically tends to overlap with taxonomic languages, though there is no inherent reason a pasigraphy needs to be taxonomic.
Mute English in South Korea From elementary school to high school, South Korean students spend about 730 hours on English classes at school alongside private tutoring and cram schools, online English classes and even going abroad to improve their English.
Publishing history Long poems 1910: “Snake Train” 1913: Prologue to the Futurist opera Victory over the Sun Plays 1912: The Little Devil Books 1912: Teacher and Student.
This was on the basis that the victorious powers of the war would better favour Bavaria in a new union state, rather than in a Prussian-dominated Germany.
The family was forced to flee to Vienna after the Imperial Russian Army occupied Czernowitz in 1916.
Zamenhof initially called his language "Lingvo internacia" (international language), but those who learned it began to call it Esperanto after his pseudonym, and this soon became the official name for the language.
was calling himself the Budetlyanin (a Russian pun, meaning 'a Future Living Being'), not a Futurist, and not accidentally that term was not held' ('...не случайно...
He is best known for his ideas surrounding Bavarian separatism, and for his series of Universal German languages, Wede.
He moved with his parents and brother to the United States in 1956 and grew up on Long Island, New York.
Life and career After doing his national service in the navy for two years, studying Russian as a coder (special), and commissioned as a midshipman, he returned to Cambridge as a PhD student in 1956.
It has been translated into Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, and German by fans, and came out in book form in March 2010.
Once Gary Gygax's attention had been drawn to Barker's work, it was decided that TSR would publish a revised version of the game mechanics along with a condensed version of his campaign setting.
The IANA Language Subtag Registry (for IETF's language tags defined in BCP 47) was updated on 29 July 2009 to include all ISO 639-3 and ISO 639-5 identifiers in use at that time.
Jean-François Sudre, also written Sudré (15 August 1787 – 3 October 1862), was a violinist, composer and music teacher who invented a musical language called la Langue musicale universelle or Solrésol.
For example, the city of Udine is called Udin in Friulian, the town of Tolmezzo is called Tumieç, the town of Aviano is called both Avian and Pleif.
Distributed Language Translation (Esperanto: Distribuita Lingvo-Tradukado, DLT) was a project to develop an interlingual machine translation system for twelve European languages.
The author concluded that RTT was a poor method of predicting the quality of machine translation software.
Latin and Greek (or Koine Greek) were the intermediary language of all areas of the Mediterranean; Akkadian, and then Aramaic, remained the common languages of a large part of Western Asia through several earlier empires.
N’Ko literacy was thus instrumental in shaping Maninka cultural identity in Guinea, and strengthened Manding identity in wider West Africa.
In April 2004, the basic version of the plan was announced as service streamed over the internet, that would broadcast a four-hour block in order to reach out to a wide international audience.
Rest and recuperation Orwell returned to England in June 1937, and stayed at the O'Shaughnessy home at Greenwich.
Leau studied at the École normal supérieure in Paris and received his doctorate there in April 1897.
She is best known for being the creator of Encantadia in 2005 and the succeeding related television series including the Encantadia 2016 reboot.
List of notable pidgins Many of these languages are commonly referred to by their speakers as "Pidgin".
Famous Grammelot also include Charlie Chaplin's faux-German in The Great Dictator and Monty Python's Knights Who Say Ni.
He was initially educated at St Ann's RC School, Stretford, before he won a scholarship to St Bede's College, Manchester, joining in September 1943.
The contemporary project for a politically and culturally unified Europe provides the perspective for a more serious consideration of the theme.
An inverted speech form similar to Totoiana also exists in the French language and is known as verlan (from l'envers, "the inverse", but inverted).
International Sign, though a pidgin language, is present at most significant international gatherings, from which interpretations of national sign languages are given, such as in LSF, ASL, BSL, Libras, or Auslan.
He has continued to do outside work as a freelance animator, writer and special effects designer for clients such as Kellogg's, BioWare San Francisco and Wizards of the Coast (Dungeons and Dragons).
Peano's language was sometimes called Interlingua, not to be confused with the better-known Interlingua presented in 1951 by the International Auxiliary Language Association (IALA).
As the Living Tongues Institute for Endangered languages tells us – roughly every two weeks a language dies”.
The Talossan language, also created by Madison in 1980, claims a vocabulary of 35 000 root words and 121 000 derived words – including fieschada ([fjeˈʃaðə]), meaning "love at first sight".
tai or ta, and similarly with formal vi, av(i), va(i); li "s/he", ali or al "he" and the masculine prefix, lai or la "she" and the feminine prefix, etc.
It has a phonology based on elementary melodic distinctions, and a simple lexicon and grammar inspired by pidgins.
Wikipedia There is also a Nko version of Wikipedia in existence since 26 November 2019, it contains 1,588 articles, with 12,799 edits and 5,831 users.
He was often considered to be not only one of the greatest science fiction authors, but one of the best American writers regardless of genre.
It was used mainly by market sellers, such as butchers and greengrocers, for private conversations behind their customers' backs and to pass off lower-quality goods to less-observant customers.
The Zompist Bulletin Board (often abbreviated ZBB) is an online forum created for the purpose of discussing conlangs, conworlds, and Mark Rosenfelder's own constructed world, Almea.
The Lingua Franca Core (LFC) is a selection of pronunciation features of the English language recommended as a basis in teaching of English as a lingua franca.
This led to schism, with much of the Academy abandoning Schleyer's Volapük in favor of Idiom Neutral and other new constructed language projects.
Khlebnikov died while a guest in the house of his friend Pyotr Miturich near Kresttsy, in June 1922.
Brown intended Loglan to be as culturally neutral as possible and metaphysically parsimonious, which means that obligatory categories are kept to a minimum.
In 1893, he was relocated to Bonthain (now Bantaeng in South Sulawesi); in 1896, to Padang and also to Aceh; in 1898, to Sintang, where he married for the second time, to Elise Marie Wilhelmine Gerardine Chavannes.
Furthermore, students in China are more used to a prescriptivist approach to their education and as a result may not be too receptive to the teaching methodology of native English speakers in explaining rules.
In his dissertation, Leau examined, among other things, the iteration behavior of holomorphic functions in the environment of a rationally indifferent fixed point.
The English grammar may hide the fact that the "beautiful" adjective translates the concept of "enjoying", a true verb, so a simpler Kalaba-X sentence would be better "Enjoy a lot, picture this, me." But the analysis does not stop there, because Kalaba-X features no pronouns, i.e.
Unamunda Unamunda itself is based on words in the English language, as well as German, Russian, and the Romance languages.
During his trial, he persisted in using Miller's language in his documents and oral arguments, despite being repeatedly ordered by the court to communicate in a comprehensible fashion.
Schleyer first published a sketch of Volapük in May 1879 in Sionsharfe, a Catholic poetry magazine of which he was editor.
However, French words that end in a ⟨e⟩ muet (such as femme [fam]) and words that end in a pronounced consonant (such as flic [flik]) gain the sound [œ] once reversed.
c is pronounced /ʃ/ (like English sh), g always hard (as in German), j as in French, and y and z as in English.
These first five systems are closely related: All were progressively simplified pictographic protowriting with logographic elements.
Under Israeli law, the organization that officially directs the development of Modern Hebrew is the Academy of the Hebrew Language, headquartered at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
As Finnish is a mora-divided language, it is morae that are exchanged, not syllables (often a mora is also a syllable in a Finnish word, but not always).
External links Desatir, or, Sacred writings of the ancient Persian prophets : in the original tongue ...
Nineteen days later, Arie reached the city of Batavia alone, and on the 25th, he decided to depart to his workshop in Makassar.
For example, names of people and places are used as modifiers of the common word for "person" and "place", e.g.
Língua dos Pês (Portuguese, P Language) is a language game spoken in Brazil and Portugal with Portuguese.
He also developed a strong interest in linguistics and historical literature, studying the mechanics of ancient Greek and Latin, which would later prove influential for his langue inventées.
Mwangwego continues to hold public lectures and exhibitions in academic institutions and teach the script.
It is most commonly employed in situations such as trade, or where both groups speak languages different from the language of the country in which they reside (but where there is no common language between the groups).
is a 'peer-reviewed international and multilingual journal devoted to the study of multilingualism and language policy', which has regularly items on Interlinguistics, like "Table of contents".
In addition, verlan often drops the final vowel sound after the word is inverted, so femme and flic become meuf ([mœf] – meufa in full form) and keuf ([kœf] – keufli in full form), respectively.
Development and dissemination The idea for a Malawian script came on November 10, 1977, in Paris, when Mwangwego discovered that there are various writing systems in the world, and thought that words meaning "to write" in Malawian languages were evidence that they once had a script of their own.
Some cultural critics praised the play, while others said (such as Sergey Yutkevich, who would later become a well-known Soviet screenwriter) it was very badly staged.
For example, the word darba (strike), of Arabic origin, is close to Russian "удар" (udar; strike), Chinese "打" (dǎ; to strike), and even marginally to English "strike" and Hindi "प्रहार" (prāhar).
These languages were created for chauvinistic purposes, specifically for the aim of implementing German as a lingua franca in post-World War One Europe.
The macron is a 'killer stroke' that deletes the vowel from a syllable and so forms consonants and NC clusters (/nd, ŋɡ/) that can be used for syllable codas.
Thus for Jespersen, progress towards communicative efficiency is anyway inevitable, but can also be assisted by language engineering.
An omnibus of the first four Rihannsu novels, containing minor tweaks for consistency and re-editing Swordhunt and Honor Blade into the originally-intended single novel.
𞓖 (/ɟ/) + 𞓕 (/a/) → 𞓖𞓕 (/ɟã/) Dipthongs Mundari frequently uses sequences where two or three vowels follow each other without an intervening consonant.
In addition to the various atlases and languages, there is also a wiki called the Almeopedia, which works as an encyclopedic reference.
The Standards Council of Canada then sponsored, on January 21, 1993, the registration of an encoded character set for use in ISO/IEC 2022, in the ISO-IR international registry of coded character sets.
El la 12 membroj de la komitato nur du estis lingvistoj, kaj nur 4 partoprenis; oni aldonis nomojn de anstataŭantoj aŭ novaj membroj sen rajtigo.
The main association to foster the use and development of Friulian is the Societât filologjiche furlane, founded in Gorizia in 1919.
Cornelis George Boeree (January 15, 1952 – January 5, 2021) was an American psychologist at Shippensburg University, who specialized in personality theory and the history of psychology.
For example, the English sentence "This picture is very beautiful." would be structured in Kalaba-X as if it were written "Beautiful very, picture this, me." where the subject (me) is explicitly given in Kalaba-X rather than being subjectively implied by the context.
Antonymic roots such as tarde for malfrue "late" and poke for malmulte "few" are used today in Esperanto poetry, though they resemble Ido and Esperanto may have acquired them from that language.
When speaking to other animals, the rabbits adopt a lingua franca known as "Hedgerow." However, in both examples given in the book (i.e.
Mishnaic attributive patterns are often used to create nouns, and Classical patterns are often used to create adjectives.
After her stint at Balintataw TV, she tried to write romantic novels and with the help of Lualhati Bautista, her work entitled Ako si Alex, Babae (I'm Alex, a Woman) was published by Anvil Publishing.
Active participle: amant loving Passive participle: amed loved The passive voice is formed with the verb esar to be and the passive participle: mi es amed I am loved, mi averio esed amed I would have been loved, etc.
The work of the preposition de "of, by, from" is divided up into several more specific prepositions.
The first published reference to it was in 1851, in Henry Mayhew's London Labour and the London Poor.
The script was created by the self-taught scholar and Sora activist Mangei Gomango in 1936 and is used primarily in religious contexts, akin to a liturgical language, in the rites of the Matar Banom (or Matharvanam) neo-animist religious movement of the Sora.
Irrespective of how it is going to be received by the public nationwide, the script is bound to go in the annals of our history as a remarkable invention.
The second type of languages have a formal syntax and formal semantics, and can be mapped to an existing formal language, such as first-order logic.
The Ariyaka script (Thai: อักษรอริยกะ) is an obsolete alphabet, invented by King Mongkut as an alternative to transcribing Pali, the liturgical language of Theravada Buddhism.
The term "Modern Hebrew" has been described as "somewhat problematic" as it implies unambiguous periodization from Biblical Hebrew.
However, George Cadar, a member of the Romanian Association of Semiotic Studies, claims to have recorded a similar form of speech far from Alba County, although he did not elaborate on this.
Sample text Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Belter Creole: Kowl mang fong beref im im ferí unte eka [...].
While attending Texas A&M University, he published his first speculative fiction in The Commentator, a student literary journal.
Most spellings were not formalized until the 1970s, primarily by the writings of Jack (Wee Fuzz) June.
Encantadia is her very first project as head writer and her first work in the telefantasya genre, which she created for GMA Network.
De Wahl thus chose to send a memorandum of principles on which to base an international language, a memorandum which arrived after the committee had already adjourned.
Vincent Gajewski, a Parisian professor, popularized the language as the president of the Central Committee for the Study and Advancement of Solresol, which was founded in 1869 by Sudre's widow, Joséphine, to further promote his work.
In the same letter he wrote a description of how the live burial could be avoided and also made a proposal for general charity and that the profits from sales of his Communicationssprache materials be donated to the above-mentioned French populated areas.
This was because RTBF dropped Collier on the advice of the Belgian security services, who claimed that she had had far right sympathies in the past.
In 1837, he moved back to Klagenfurt, where he first worked in the administration of the Diocese of Gurk, and from 1843 as the chaplain of Klagenfurt Cathedral.
Attested personal pronouns (Dee's material only): Demonstrative pronouns: oi 'this', unal 'these, those', priaz(i) 'those'.
Reluctantly he decided to present a reformed dialect himself and undertook to continue guiding the community, whether or not reforms were eventually agreed upon.
Remi continued publishing cartoons, drawings and woodcuts in subsequent issues of the newsletter, which was soon renamed Le Boy-Scout Belge (The Belgian Boy Scout).
The suffixes used for the singular are dependent upon the ending of the noun stem, and the suffixes for the plural depend upon the animacy.
Nevertheless, Majar continued to propagate radical pan-Slavic ideas through the magazine Slavjan (The Slav), which he had founded in 1873.
An example of the latter is the suffix -ment: move/r, move/ment (not movetment), experi/r, experi/ment (not experitment), and -ntie (English -nce): tolera/r (tolerate), tolera/ntie, existe/r (exist), existe/ntie.
Grammar Loglan has three types of words: predicates (also called content words), structure words (also called little words), and names.
That website is now deprecated, and new resources will be created with the formation of la Società per l'Ilesnaziun del Glheþ Naziunal (Society for the Facilitation of the National Language, SIGN).
Adams was the recipient of the inaugural Whitchurch Arts Award for inspiration in January 2010, presented at the Watership Down pub in Freefolk, Hampshire.
Not one in a million is fit for it, and least of all those who seek the opportunity." Battle of the Somme Tolkien arrived at the Somme in early July 1916.
The first person to learn the script was Mwandipa Chimaliro; ten other students that year learned the script as well who went on to teach others.
On the Navon task, relative to non-autistic controls, Tammet was found to be faster at finding a target at the local level and to be less distracted by interference from the global level.
Notes References David Cram and Jaap Maat, (eds.), George Dalgarno on Universal Language: The Art of Signs (1661), The Deaf and Dumb Man's Tutor (1680), and the Unpublished Papers, Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2001.
The syntax is heavily dependent on sign, but sign is used for some lexical words as well, typically for physical verbs such as 'hold'.
Examples of works that are already available include: Alice's Adventures in Wonderland The Wonderful Wizard of Oz The Little Prince The Metamorphosis In a Grove The Book of Esther Lojban has also been used in other media.
auxiliary languages destined for oral and written use between people who cannot make themselves understood by means of their mother tongues".
In 2007, Lang said that at least 100 people speak Toki Pona fluently and estimated that a few hundred have a basic knowledge of the language.
While Karky was pursuing a PhD in Australia, he took up a part-time job of teaching and baby-sitting children.
In the liner notes to the 2009 compilation album The Very Best of Enya, "It has been a truly unique journey ...
Since Miller's death, "Quantum Grammar" has seen continued usage by other people within the sovereign citizen movement.
Traditionally, controlled languages fall into two major types: those that improve readability for human readers (e.g.
In his letter to the organizers, he said, "I am profoundly convinced that every nationalism offers humanity only the greatest unhappiness ...
Stanciulescu secretly witnesses the event and overhears Dominic ask, "Where do you want me to put the third rose?" Stanciulescu persuades Dominic to escape from Romania and the Nazis.
Under such translation, the effective semantic of the sentence is "I (find that) this picture is very beautiful." where the author of the sentence is responsible for this affirmation.
Morphology Lojban has three word-classes: predicate words (brivla), structure words (cmavo), and name words (cmevla).
In the summer of 1960, Lyons went to Indiana University to work in a machine translation project; he was chosen because of his expertise in Russian and linguistics.
Phonology Phonemic inventory Toki Pona has nine consonants (/p, t, k, s, m, n, l, j, w/) and five vowels (/a, e, i, o, u/).
Possessive forms The short form of the possessive pronouns looks like this: The third person singular suy is universal and can be used as the possessive form for both ta, it, ela and lu – for ela and lu, there are also the forms elay and luy.
The first edition of Zangezi was published in July 1922, but Khlebnikov didn't see the publication because had died a few weeks earlier on June 28, 1922, from what some sources said was malaria.
Its grammar is largely Persian, while its vocabulary is mostly invented, although there are words that have been adapted from Persian, Hindi, Avestan, Sanskrit and Arabic.
A longtime recording and business partner of Irish singer and composer Enya, Ryan created the language during the production of the latter's sixth studio album, Amarantine (2005).
Both adjectives and adverbs would take the ending "-e", be invariable, and depend on position for clarity.
"Pê" dialect This "dialect" is more like Kongarian (a language game spoken with Hungarian) than the other "dialects" of Língua do Pê.
In the following months, Majar's manifesto was elaborated into a program known under the name of United Slovenia.
He was Guest of Honor at the 1985 World Science Fiction Convention and he received the 1989 Edward E.
Two of his textbooks have been published, one on personality theories and one on the history of psychology.
Kanté initially used the system to transcribe religious, scientific, and philosophical literature, and even a dictionary.
Peterson and his development of the Dothraki language were featured on an April 8, 2012 episode of CNN's The Next List.
These two factors have greatly affected Chinese students' ability to acquire English as a second language.
The satirical use of such a format may date back to the 16th-century commedia dell'arte; the group of cognate terms appears to belong to the 20th century.
The affix e indicates past tense when prefixed (ebela "formerly beautiful", eʃefo "ex-boss"), but future tense when suffixed and stressed (sanéa "healthy-to-be", urbéo "city-to-be").
Avant-garde painter Vladimir Tatlin staged the play Zangezi on May 23, 1923 in the Petrograd Museum of Feature Art, in a production where cultural researcher Nikolay Punin and poet Georgy Yakubovsky read lectures before the play began.
Et Verdenssprog: Et Forsøg på Spørsmålets Løsning ("A world language: An attempt to solve the question").
The language was built to attempt to remove some limits on human thought; these limits are not understood, so that the tendency is to try to remove restrictions whenever we find the language structure gets in our way.
(Esperanto Language Committee) 25 copies of the project, to distribute among its 100 members (some of whom were living outside of Europe) and demanded a response in one month.
Optional inflection Plurality and pluractionality may be shown through reduplication, usually partial: tatablo (or tablo-tablo) "tables", dendeno or dedeno "days", kloklora "of many colours", marmarʃu "walk repeatedly".
Couturat was thus the first to appreciate that Leibniz was the greatest logician during the more than 2000 years that separate Aristotle from George Boole and Augustus De Morgan.
She also mentioned that there was a similar case in 2007 when she wrote the television adaptation of Lupin.
Also, Finnish inflectional and derivational morphology is extensive, thus applying a suffix from another word often produces a valid word.
History Rohidas Singh Nag started designing the initial characters of Mundari bani in 1949 while in grade school, which he wrote on the walls using clay.
In 2012, 146 newborn girls in the United States were named "Khaleesi", the Dothraki term for the wife of a khal or ruler, and the title adopted in the series by Daenerys Targaryen.
Sample text Lexicon Modern Hebrew has expanded its vocabulary effectively to meet the needs of casual vernacular, of science and technology, of journalism and belles-lettres.
(Do you remember how cool it was?) Dutch In the Netherlands and Belgium, the most common version is to insert the syllable "ep" before every vowel.
Marion Eleanor Zimmer Bradley (June 3, 1930 – September 25, 1999) was an American author of fantasy, historical fantasy, science fiction, and science fantasy novels and is best known for the Arthurian fiction novel The Mists of Avalon and the Darkover series.
These are: the variety of Quechua that was used as a lingua franca and administrative language in the Inca Empire (1438–1533) (or Inca lingua franca).
Thus the world would be seen as "what is among the ground and the sky", and "Blissymbols" would be seen as "the writing tool to express the world".
Exclamation marks come at the beginning of a clause, which ends in a comma or period as normal; question marks come at the end.
During his studies in Klagenfurt, he came under the influence of Anton Martin Slomšek, a Roman Catholic priest and author who propagated the use of Slovene in the public sphere.
Current use As of 2005, it was used mainly in Guinea and the Ivory Coast (respectively by Maninka and Dyula speakers), with an active user community in Mali (by Bambara speakers).
Other prose works Duane made available in various e-formats a previously unpublished book which was sold to at least two European publishers, but never actually brought out due to internal restructuring at one publishing house (Corgi) and the sale of another (Heyne Verlag).
Most importantly, proponents of this view reject the idea that emerging insights into how English is used as a lingua franca can provide useful input with regard to the aims and methods of English language teaching.
The most developed of these are Quenya and Sindarin, the etymological connection between which formed the core of much of Tolkien's legendarium.
It is thus important to clarify that the "basic version" of the language – that is, the version after which the basics of the language is not to be changed – was not published until 2010.
Foster at the Internet Speculative Fiction Database Review of The Gameplayers of Zan by Jo Walton, with comments on the other Ler books.
Many features of the site have been noted by the press, including its culture tests, humorous excerpts from phrase books, its collection of numbers in over 5000 languages, and The Language Construction Kit.
It was the time of the Dunkirk evacuation, and the death in Flanders of Eileen's brother Laurence O'Shaughnessy caused her considerable grief and long-term depression.
However, the British Council declined to publish the essay on the grounds that it was too problematic to write about food at the time of strict rationing in the UK following the war.
Annually, South Koreans spend $752 million on additional support to take English proficiency tests and they are globally regarded as the largest market to take the TOEFL.
Chancerel in fact uses the word in his book, Le théâtre et la jeunesse (Paris: Bourrellier 1946:47).
The person is thus identified as a "fact" existing in the "now-time-dimension"; the names as written in this way are distinguished from the names listed at birth and in "all-caps" (as on a birth certificate), which identify the legal estate and not the living being in fact.
In July 2024, a British group led by Mark Kishon Christopher, a Miller disciple, along with Matthew Dean Martin, Sean Harper, and Shiza Harper identifying themselves as the 'Federal Postal Court' or 'the Court for the People' were convicted of conspiring to kidnap the Senior Coroner for Essex.
After two failed applications for an ISO 639-3 code, a third request was filed in August 2021, which resulted in the ISO 639-3 code tok being adopted in January 2022.
Serpent's Walk and Holocaust denial Barker wrote a sixth novel, Serpent's Walk, under the pseudonym Randolph D.
Career He was the French advocate of the symbolic logic that emerged in the years before World War I, thanks to the writings of Charles Sanders Peirce, Giuseppe Peano and his school, and especially to The Principles of Mathematics by Couturat's friend and correspondent Bertrand Russell.
He started work on The Road to Wigan Pier by the end of April, but also spent hours working on the garden, planting a rose garden which is still extant, and revealing four years later that "outside my work the thing I care most about is gardening, especially vegetable gardening".
Block The Unicode block for Sorang Sompeng script, called Sora Sompeng, is U+110D0–U+110FF: Fonts Microsoft Windows made a font called Nirmala UI, which supports Sora Sompeng.
A short story within the same universe, "Uptown Local", has also been published as part of Jane Yolen's Dragons and Dreams anthology, and a podcast of Duane reading it is freely available from her website.
At one point there were perhaps up to even one million students of Volapük, but later began to decline.
Since the location of Rupini's cave is unknown, the scholars, led by Professor Giuseppe Tucci, agree to fund an expedition to find it in India.
He points out that the impossible quest has had some useful side effects (taxonomy, scientific notations etc.) but dwells mostly on exotic proposals.
From 1972 he moved to teach at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis, where he chaired the Department of South Asian studies until his retirement in the early 1990s; a few years after, the department was disbanded due to reduced funding.
The order is as follows: In prepositional phrases, prepositions always precede their noun complements.
In the episode "Andy's Ancestry" from the United States television show The Office, Dwight Schrute created the Dothraki phrase "throat rip" by putting "throat" in the accusative and placing it in front of the transitive verb.
One of the scheduled programs, Teleĵurnalo, the first Esperanto newscast, wasn't in the initial schedule.
Plot synopsis Dawn di Vito wanders into an office, hoping to learn Unamunda, an Esperanto-like language.
Scientific study After the World Memory Championships, Tammet participated in a group study, later published in the New Year 2003 edition of Nature Neuroscience.
Talossan language Madison invented Talossan ([tɐɫɔˈsan] or el glheþ Talossan [ɛɫ ʎeθ tɐɫɔˈsan]) as a constructed language for his micronation.
He specialized in English philology at university and in 1915 graduated with Old Norse as his special subject.
Dritok handshapes (and orientation) The Drushek have three fingers and a thumb, so the ring-finger may be ignored in these images.
Examples of verlan in cultural mainstream include the 1984 comedy Les Ripoux (My New Partner) (ripou is verlan for pourri, or rotten, and refers to a corrupt policeman); and the 1977 hit "Laisse béton" by singer Renaud (béton is verlan for tomber and the phrase means "drop it").
After leaving school, the members stayed in touch and, in December 1914, they held a council in London at Wiseman's home.
It is included in the unofficial Under-ConScript Unicode Registry since 2022, at the Private Use Area codepoints range U+F1900–U+F19FF.
Boontling briefly enjoyed a national audience in the mid-1970s when a Boontling speaker named Bobby (Chipmunk) Glover was a regular guest on the well-known The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson on the NBC television network.
Furlan standard or Furlan normalizât, also known as coinè or lenghe comun, it is the lenghe scrite or the standard written language for the entire Friulian community.
Mongkut established a printing press for the script at Bowonniwet Vihara Temple in Bangkok, where a limited number of texts were printed.
Louis Couturat the monumental Histoire de la Langue Universelle (1903) and its supplement Les Nouvelles Langues Internationales (1907).
Each of these three parts, which are linked semantically rather than grammatically, can be modified.
Regarding the first stance, some linguists claim that variation in ELF is completely haphazard and devoid of any patterns, and therefore not worth studying.
Childhood John Ronald Reuel Tolkien was born on 3 January 1892 in Bloemfontein in the Orange Free State (later annexed by the British Empire; now Free State Province in the Republic of South Africa), to Arthur Reuel Tolkien, an English bank manager, and his wife Mabel, née Suffield.
Impersonations, Chinese Whispers and Fun with Machine Translation on the Internet" in Proceedings of the 11th Annual Conference of the European Association of Machine Translation
The proposal sparked a debate among linguists and pedagogists, while Jenkins contended that much of the criticism was based on misinterpretations of her proposal.
In April 2017, Doctolero commented on Twitter about the series saying that the first weeks of Destined to be Yours were flop or did not rate well but it later had good ratings after changing the direction of the story.
Into the boat!" (cognate literally to German Nach dem Boot!) See also Bordurian References "On the Syldavian language" by Mark Rosenfelder Har Brok, Is Syldavisch Slavisch?
They have the same values as in the International Phonetic Alphabet: j sounds like English y (as in many Germanic and Slavic languages) and the vowels are like those of Spanish, Modern Greek, or Modern Hebrew.
In a December 1976 editorial for The Dragon magazine, editor Tim Kask drew comparisons between the world of Tékumel and J.
The BCP 47 subtag x can be used to create a suitable private use tag for any constructed language that has not been assigned an official language tag (e.g., art-x-solresol could be used for Solresol).
The writing is essayistic and uses the biblical story of Babel as a paradigm for connecting linguistic and social practices.
cent (100), mil (1000), milion (1,000,000) El prim (the first), el duli (the second), el trili (the third) etc.
Internacia Televido (International Television) was an internet-based Esperanto-language television station, launched on 5 November 2005 by the Ĝangalo news site from São Paulo, Brazil.
There was no need for a little boy like me to realize how stupid it was to speak six different languages.” Blitz's early life was filled with poverty, cold and starvation.
"Semivowels" are [x] or [h] when interpreted as Umod consonants, and as [ə] or labialized [u, ɔ] when interpreted as vowels.
Popular speech has created some instances; for example, natives of Barranquilla, Colombia often call their city Curramba, in a stylized form of vesre.
So "T pa nu vedma S" means the same thing as "S pa vedma T" and might be translated "T was sold by S".
The two diacritics are a circumflex (ko'ndon) that may be added to any of the 80 glyphs, and a macron (tukwentis) that is restricted to a dozen.
Jemmer's work documents the evolution of numerous inter-related languages (the process of development and analysis is called "aleolinguistics").
Disch identified Isaac Asimov and Gene Wolfe, respectively, writing: "...all too many have already gone into a decline after carrying home some trophies.
Upon its publication the text stirred controversy, some scholars at the time regarding it as a genuine ancient text on par with the Avesta, others deeming it to be a forgery.
According to Laycock: The texts in the Loagaeth show patterning "characteristically found in certain types of meaningless language (such as glossolalia), which is often produced under conditions similar to trance.
In 2024, Lang published The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (Toki Pona edition), the first in the su series of illustrated storybooks aimed at beginners, in which all Toki Pona text is written in sitelen pona.
A joint committee of the House of Lords and House of Commons considered the petition, and rejected it in 1935.
Comprising the council is a mayor and 13 elected members, who are supported by a chief executive, as well as four general managers and approximately 175 field and inside staff.
Petroleum and Minerals Authority Bill 1973 95 votes to 91, with Liberal Party member John Gorton absent.
He was given the additional command responsibilities of the 12th Division and the Northern Territory Lines of Communications Area in December.
In 2018, the SA state government reduced the levy by an average of $150 per household, costing approximately $360 million.
Military commission On 24 July 1804 he was commissioned into the army as an ensign in the 64th Regiment of Foot, which was at that time stationed in the West Indies.
It was created by the Legislation Act 2003 incorporating the functions and responsibilities of the now-defunct ComLaw and Federal Register of Legislative Instruments.
But the Commonwealth government directly nominating and recommending a Governor-General occasioned a controversy, both in the press at home and in Buckingham Palace.
This list of Australian Government entities includes ministerial departments, principal entities, secondary entities, and other entities, which are grouped into a number of areas of portfolio responsibility.
It was the first time anyone had ever been called to the Bar of the lower house, and it was the only time the Parliament has ever jailed anyone.
The next day the Australians of 3 RAR took the lead in the advance, and C Company was the leading company.
In May 1879, she became a great-grandmother (on the birth of Princess Feodora of Saxe-Meiningen) and passed her "poor old 60th birthday".
Following a derailment event in December 2011, Oz Minerals elected to use the line to export to the south via Port Adelaide.
History The title refers to Sir Rupert Cross, who originally wrote the textbook in the United Kingdom in 1958.
The Royalist view interpreted the phrase as "King, in Parliament"; that is, the King acting with the consent of the Lords and Commons, but ultimately exercising his own sovereign authority.
History Under the Additional Members Act 1864, the seats of Clermont, Kennedy, Maryborough, Mitchell, Rockhampton and Warrego were created.
Anticipating a US withdrawal, the McMahon government announced an 'accelerated withdrawal' of Australian troops in Vietnam in July 1971.
In 2010, the APLC together with the states identified the potential for a significant infestation of the Australian plague locust.
Louis John Wienholt (1918–1973) was a senior Australian public servant, including as Secretary of the Department of Social Security in 1973.
Policy-making functions of the Commission were assumed by the Queensland Department of Energy and Water Supply and its planning and regulatory functions became the responsibility of Seqwater.
She has been a Labor member of the Western Australian Legislative Assembly since the 2021 state election, representing Mirrabooka from 2021 to 2025 and Girrawheen from 2025.
Another similar portrait of Philip by Dargie, which has been described as "a draft or copy of the City of Melbourne portrait", is part of the collection of Melbourne Legacy, a charitable organisation whose collection is part of the broader Victorian Collections.
Opponents of the move to make Australia a republic claim in response that Australia already has an Australian as head of state in the governor-general, who, since 1965, has invariably been an Australian citizen.
The Department of Family and Community Services (also known as FaCS) was an Australian government department that existed between October 1998 and January 2006.
McVeigh resigned after he was preselected as the LNP candidate for the federal division of Groom at the 2016 federal election.
He says that extremists misinterpret Islamic teachings such as the Quranic injunction, 'whoever kills an innocent person, it's as if he has killed all of mankind'.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements, the Department's annual reports and on the Department's website.
The agency was responsible for setting water restriction policy and coordinating water infrastructure projects in the state.
From 1 July 2025, the corporation achieved the milestone of being powered by 100% renewable electricity and is on track to report net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for the 2025-26 financial year, four years ahead of its government obligations.
On refusing Privatisation and Administrative Affairs she says that she was not willing to put up with a junior portfolio of "limited interest." This portfolio now renamed Privatisation and Administrative Services went instead to David Connolly.
The Taronga Conservation Society is a Government of New South Wales agency responsible for Taronga Zoo Sydney and the Taronga Western Plains Zoo in New South Wales, Australia.
It replaced the Department of National Development and inherited domestic resources and energy matters from the Department of Trade and Resources.
The seat of the consulate-general is located on Level 3 of ESA Sampoerna Center, Sukolilo, Surabaya, East Java.
On 28 September 2010, Wyatt attended the opening of the 43rd Australian Parliament to take up his seat as member for Hasluck.
He was further honoured with appointment as a Lieutenant of the Royal Victorian Order in January 2014, for his services as Deputy Official Secretary to the Governor-General of Australia since 2009.
Arthur Herbert Evelyn Mattingley (1870–1950), noted Australian bird photographer and ornithologist, was a founding member of the Royal Australasian Ornithologists Union (RAOU) in 1901.
Upon arrival in Melbourne after the cessation of hostilities he was discharged from the Australian Imperial Force on 28 October 1919.
Defence minister Malcolm Fraser developed an uneasy relationship with Gorton and in early 1971, Fraser accused Gorton of being disloyal to him in a conflict with Army officials over progress in South Vietnam.
In 1822, Governor Macquarie returned from Australia and, after securing seven weeks' leave from his returned regiment, Watts went to visit the Macquaries, meeting them in Glasgow on 2 September 1822.
Awards Hayes was made an Officer of the Order of Australia in June 1992 for service to international organisations, and for his public service.
On 4 February 2004 the first passenger train arrived in Darwin from Adelaide, travelling 2979 km (1851 mi) in 47 hours.
See also Robodebt scheme List of Australian Commonwealth Government entities References External links Department of Social Services website
His next role was as Secretary of the Department of Industry, Tourism and Resources (later Department of Innovation, Industry, Science and Research), to which he was appointed by Prime Minister John Howard, who praised his knowledge and experience.
To South Korea Following the Korean War, South Korea was welcomed under the US "nuclear umbrella" after signing the ROK-US mutual security treaty on October 1, 1953.
For example, there was a specialist accreditation exam for Immigration law in 2018, you'll be expecting the next exam in 2020.
He was transferred to the 5th Divisional Signal Company in February 1917 and was promoted to lieutenant in April.
Life and career Hayes was appointed to the position of Secretary of the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs starting in March 1982.
When the Australian Customs Service was established in 1985, splitting out from the Department of Industry, Technology and Commerce, Hayes was appointed its Comptroller-General.
These included the hours of sittings, a 20-minute limit on speeches, and a requirement that there be at least 4 hours of debate (or 12 speakers) before debate on any bill could be ended.
During his time as head of social security, Wienholt organized for his desk clerks to attend two-week courses in the slums of Melbourne and Sydney to "sensitise" them to the problems of departmental clients.
The Department of Employment and Industrial Relations was an Australian government department that existed between May 1982 and July 1987.
History Prior to July 2015, Norfolk Island was self-governed by the Norfolk Island Legislative Assembly.
Structure The Department was a Commonwealth Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for Defence Production.
History In 1935 Para Wirra amalgamated with the District Council of Talunga to form the new and District Council of Gumeracha.
The announcement coincided with the revelation that the ADF was tracking a People's Liberation Army Navy flotilla in the Philippine Sea.
These meetings are chaired by the monarch or, if he is ill or abroad, crown prince (the monarch's heir).
The District Council of Para Wirra was a local government area of South Australia from 1854 to 1935, seated at Maidstone (later called Kersbrook).
It was based in the eastern suburbs of Launceston, Tasmania's second city, and the surrounding rural area.
In 2012, a new award for poetry was announced and the Prize for Australian History was incorporated.
From the late 1830s to 1945, the area surrounding Port Adelaide was subdivided into many small district areas as owners bought, subdivided and sold areas of land.
Hammat graduated from the University of Western Australia with a BA in politics and industrial relations and a MA in labor and industrial relations.
While both Europe and the US believe that data should flow freely, China has taken an opposing stance and has adopted data localization, but with stricter regulations.
Galvin joined the Australian Public Service in 1950, with a personnel cadetship that enabled him to obtain an arts degree from the University of Adelaide.
The 1865 Warrego colonial by-election was a by-election held on 25 March 1865 in the electoral district of Warrego for the Queensland Legislative Assembly.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual budget statements and in the department's annual reports.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements and in the Department's annual report.
The policy of multiculturalism has tended to be implicitly anti-British, despite Australia's British colonial heritage and the large number of British immigrants to Australia after World War II.
Among other things, the department was tasked with developing price stabilization and marketing plans for many agricultural commodities, including wheat.
See also Henry Tax Review List of Australian Commonwealth Government entities References External links Official website
He was awarded the Centenary Medal in 2001 for service to Australian society through public service leadership.
The Department of Education and Science was an Australian government department that existed between December 1966 and December 1972.
The Act was repealed in 1908 by the Seat of Government Act 1908, which selected Canberra as the new site for the territory.
The chamber itself is designed to seat up to 172 members, with room to accommodate a total of 240 with temporary seating.
Engineering heritage award Both the old and new Parliament House received an Engineering Heritage National Marker from Engineers Australia as part of its Engineering Heritage Recognition Program.
She competed at the World Championships and Games for the Disabled in Assen, Netherlands winning a bronze medal in Women's 100m T1 and fourth in Women's 400m T4.
In his report, Walsh found that there was a lack of coordination in the government over the establishment of cryptography policy.
This page details numerous records and characteristics of individuals who have held the office of Prime Minister of Australia.
The Consulate-General of Australia in Surabaya was established in February 2017, and is the fourth diplomatic mission of Australia in Indonesia after Jakarta (1935), Denpasar (1981), and Makassar (2016).
A corridor of oak trees has been planted at this place by each Prime Minister of Australia since Federation or a close family member.
Nominations The six candidates in ballot paper order are as follows: Result References External links Electoral Commission Queensland: 2016 Toowoomba South By-Election ABC Elections: 2016 Toowoomba South by-election
A three-part docu-drama series, The People vs Robodebt, commissioned by the SBS TV network, was first broadcast in September 2025.
The Department of Northern Australia was an Australian government department that existed between June and December 1975.
Only after the release of her diary and letters did the extent of her political influence become known to the wider public.
He was one of six chief investigators on an Australian Research Council Linkage project studying the history of ANZAC Day.
The Department of Transport was an Australian government department that existed between December 1972 and May 1982.
In 2001, the Constitution of Queensland was amended to restore the office of lieutenant-governor in that state.
He moved to the Investment Banking Group in Macquarie in 2005 where he was Principal Adviser, Regulatory involved with Macquarie Group interests globally in regulated utilities and infrastructure.
Personal Deahnne Mary McIntyre was born with spina bifida on 9 June 1971 in Canberra as a twin into a family of six children.
The Forum brings the world’s leading experts together with the “practitioners” of government: elected officials, civil servants, and political operatives from many countries.
She went on to question humans' contribution to the warming of the planet, suggesting that "climate changes continually, and if we have got to do something about it we have got to learn to adapt".
She was the first person to win a gold medal for the Australian Capital Territory at the Pacific School Games, in which she participated in 1984 and 1988.
Demographic projections released by the Queensland Centre for Population Research in 2011 found that there is a 50 per cent likelihood of Australia's population being larger than 35 million by 2050.
In February 2011 he responded to Cardinal George Pell's scepticism and ignorance about climate change during a Senate Estimates hearing.
Battle of Kapyong PVA forces of the 118th Division attacked the Kapyong Valley, and pushed ROK and New Zealand troops into retreat.
The Royal Majesty was the commonly used term to refer to the supreme executive authority under the 1809 Instrument of Government, under which the monarch made all decisions of state in the presence of his Cabinet ministers.
Beveridge, who had commissioned the Wattle Queen portrait of Elizabeth II, donated this portrait of Philip to the City of Melbourne.
The District Council of Munno Mara West was a local government area of South Australia on the central Adelaide Plains from 1854 to 1933.
Margaret and Alastair Macfarlane, "John Watts: Australia's Forgotten Architect 1814–1819 and South Australia's Postmaster General 1841–1861." Bonnells Bay, NSW.
The Australian Honour Flag is a special Australian flag that was created by the Commonwealth Government in 1918, as a result of World War I.
Structure The department was a Commonwealth Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for Defence.
Hunter is an atheist, and contributed a chapter to the 2010 Australian Book of Atheism on the topic of "Parliament and Prayer".
Term in office William "Bill" McMahon became Prime Minister of Australia on 10 March 1971, at the age of 63.
Stuart Francis Harris (born 14 March 1931) is a retired Australian senior public servant and academic.
Release of the complete report was also covered by Hobart's Mercury, Melbourne's Sun-Herald, The Sydney Morning Herald, many Internet news sites and radio stations in Perth and Sydney.
As counsel who was refused leave to appear, my sense of outrage over Parliament's denial of due process and natural justice remains undimmed after a lapse of 40 years".
The painting is part of the Royal Collection but has been on permanent loan to the Parliament of Australia since 1957.
Together with new dams and desalination plants the Commission aimed to counter the worst effects of drought in Australia.
According to political historian Brian Carroll: [Gorton's] style was Presidential rather than Prime Ministerial.
In 1988, Hayes left his position at the Australian Customs Service to take up the post of Secretary-General of the Customs Cooperation Council in Brussels (now known as the World Customs Organization).
Originally titled Defence Linguist Magazine, the name was changed to its current name after running a competition in the first edition.
The electoral district of Cumberland was a single-member electoral district of the Tasmanian House of Assembly.
In 1989, Harris was one of the three chairs appointed to lead the Ecologically Sustainable Development Process, commissioned by the Hawke Government.
Status The rules are a template only; the actual laws are those legislated by each state and territory.
The Secretary of the Department was David Rosalky, until 2001 and then subsequently Mark Sullivan, until 2004 and then Jeff Harmer.
Synopsis In All for Australia, Blainey argues: For the sake of national unity, the typical nation practises discrimination against migrants on the basis of ethnicity.
At the department's creation the department was responsible for the administration of Commonwealth policy on agricultural production, including responsibility for export inspection services, fisheries development and whaling.
The Treasury provides advice and assists in the formulation and implementation of government taxation and retirement income policies and legislation as well as providing information on material changes to taxation revenue forecasts and projections.
The seat was created in a redistribution ahead of the 1903 state election, and was abolished when the Tasmanian parliament adopted the Hare-Clark electoral model in 1909.
As of December 2023, there are 1,334 government entities reportable to the Australian Government Organisations Register.
The Department of National Development and Energy was an Australian government department that existed between December 1979 and March 1983.
Ronaldson served as the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister for the Centenary of ANZAC, and the Special Minister of State in the Abbott government from 2013 to 2015.
A member of the Cabinet is appointed to hold the position of Vice-President of the Executive Council to act as presiding officer of the Executive Council in the absence of the Governor-General, at no additional salary or allowance.
Orders-in-council may be used to implement secondary legislation, such as British statutory instruments.
Generally, an official of sub-cabinet rank, an administrator is appointed by the President of the United States with the consent of the United States Senate and assigned to run a specific US government agency.
The National Security Adviser was disbanded by Prime Minister Tony Abbott in 2013 and with their roles integrated into the Deputy Secretary of the National Security and International Policy Group within the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet.
Posters containing the photos and the 'white badge of cruelty' were produced for hanging in museums and schools.
Ultimately, Petrov was accused by the Soviet Ambassador of several lapses in judgement that would have led to his imprisonment and probable execution upon his return to the Soviet Union.
Prior to ACT Self-Government in 1989, what is now the Jervis Bay Territory constituted part of the Australian Capital Territory.
In March 1996 the City of Port Adelaide merged with the City of Enfield to form the new City of Port Adelaide Enfield.
Consequently, legislation passed after UDI was "enacted by His Excellency the Officer Administering the Government, as the representative of the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Parliament of Rhodesia".
In practice, meetings will only be attended by a small number of Councillors rather than the full Cabinet.
The Criminal Justice Commission was responsible for significant research into the Queensland Police Service.
An example is the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which included language that prohibited data localization restrictions among participants, which was carried over to the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership.
The longest service as an MP of a prime minister was Billy Hughes, who served from March 1901 until his death in October 1952, a total of 51 years.
In May 2016 the government handed down the 2016/17 federal budget which confirmed the final round of Australian aid cuts, $224 million or 7.4% of the Australian aid program.
Instead, immigration can be used to complement policy tools and urban design while reducing strain on infrastructure.
The Commissioner also has oversight of ASQA’s course accreditation process which accredits new courses to be nationally recognised, and ASQA’s regulatory reporting functions.
If the Governor-General is not in attendance, quorum is the vice-president and two serving ministers or assistant ministers.
Journalism Soutphommasane was a regular writer for The Australian newspaper, to which he contributed feature articles and the Ask the Philosopher column each Saturday.
The Register provides copies of all in force and superseded federal legislation, as well as legislative instruments, Regulations, Determinations, Notifiable Instruments and Administrative Arrangement Orders from 1901 onwards.
Some controversy existed over the 1893 election result, as a redistribution still awaiting royal assent had not been carried out due to the snap election and the sitting member and Speaker of the House, Nicholas John Brown, lost the seat to Don Urquhart, a Zeehan solicitor.
The Administrator of the British Indian Ocean Territory is the junior to a commissioner (Chagos Archipelago, notably Diego Garcia.
A paper that he read to the North Melbourne branch of the association on ‘The Discontent of the Working Classes’ came in for ‘severe criticism’ from radical members of the branch.
In 1981, Turner became a liaison officer for the Commonwealth heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) held in Melbourne, and in 1985 was appointed as director of the Alice Springs office of the DAA.
The Department of Primary Industry was an Australian government department that existed between January 1956 and June 1974.
The tallest prime minister is believed to be Gough Whitlam, who stood at around 6 feet 4 inches (194 cm) in height.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements and in the department's annual reports.
He left the post in August 2018, and for his services was advanced to Commander of the Royal Victorian Order in the 2019 New Year Honours.
Other countries and stakeholders have protested against this Chinese strategy of restricting the free flow of data.
This and other criticisms of senators in the same article led Hughes and four of his colleagues to be banned from Parliament House for several months.
The agency's role was outlined in the Zoological Parks Board Act 1973 and Amendment Act 1992 and fall within the jurisdiction of the Minister for the Environment.
The donation happened around the time of the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne, which was declared open by Philip.
On April 1, 1998, the CES was dissolved, and its remaining employment services were vested with ESRA.
During his time in the role, he accompanied Minister for Supply Allen Fairhall overseas visiting the United Kingdom and the United States on departmental business.
List of departmental secretaries The Secretary of the Department of Defence (SECDEF) is a senior public service officer and historically the appointees have not come from military service.
During his time in the House of Representatives, Ronaldson served as the Shadow Minister for Youth, Sport and Recreation, Shadow Parliamentary Secretary to the Leader of the Opposition and Shadow Minister for Schools, Vocational Education and Training.
He was involved in a variety of campaigns in the LGBTQ community, including a successful move to have sexuality included as a grounds for discrimination in 1986.
Hunter co-sponsored the 2011 Marriage Equality Bill with Greens MLC Tammy Franks also supported by the Australian Marriage Equality under its then national convenor Alex Greenwich who became the first same-sex married parliamentarian in Australia and the NSW Legislative Assembly.
This facility is designed to divert approximately 55,000 tonnes of food waste from landfill annually and is expected to generate up to 39,000 kWh of electricity per day, enough to power more than 2,200 households.
In February 1997, before the Walsh Report was publicly released, the Australian Attorney-General's Department embargoed it and withheld the report from commercial sale.
The Statute of Westminster required the Dominion governments be consulted on matters relating to the succession.
Under Fahour's leadership, in 2015 Australia Post recorded its first full-year loss in over 30 years, with half-year profits down some 56 percent.
By-elections to fill the new seats were held on 1 February 1865 (Maryborough and Rockhampton), on 18 March 1865 (Clermont and Kennedy) and on 25 March 1865 (Mitchell and Warrego).
Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh is an Australian portrait of Prince Philip, consort to Elizabeth II who reigned as Queen of Australia from 1952 to 2022.
At its creation, the department was responsible for the following: National energy policy, including planning and research into coal, oil and gas, uranium, solar energy and other forms of energy Radioactive waste management.
The National Security Adviser was tasked with Chairing the National Intelligence Coordination Committee alongside a raft of other national security leadership and advice functions.
Alice Springs to Darwin In 1983, the federal government announced its intention to extend the standard gauge line from Alice Springs to Darwin to complete the Adelaide–Darwin rail corridor.
At the time of the 2007–08 budget, the Government announced total aid of $3.2 billion and an expectation "to continue increasing development assistance, to $3.5 billion in 2008-09, $3.8 billion in 2009–10 and $4.3 billion in 2010–11".
He donated the land on which Jackson Park sits to the people of the Blue Mountains in 1933 for use as a public park.
Career In 1902, Broinowski joined the Commonwealth Public Service in Melbourne as a clerk with the Department of Defence, a position obtained via Prime Minister Edmund Barton who was a friend of his father.
The Parliament House Art Collection of over 6,000 works includes commissioned (and purchased) portraits of every prime minister, governor-general, president of the senate and speaker of the house, as well as other works of art significant to Australia.
The first edition of the rules was published on 19 October 1999 and was available for formal adoption by states and territories from December 1999.
The original wards at its inception had been East Adelaide and Hackney, Stepney and Maylands, Torrens, Payneham, Trinity, Norwood/Kent Town and Kensington.
SASES Rescue Challenges The biennial challenge is publicised on the news, and social media, where SES units within the state compete in a series of mock emergency rescues.
In his memoirs he wrote that he was so disillusioned by the outcome that he "saw myself as a failure and Parliament as something meaningless, just a 'front' for the dead democracy".
According to research conducted by the Development Policy Centre at ANU, Australia's declining aid expenditure puts it at odds with the aid budget trajectories that many other OECD countries are following.
These government agencies are classified by the Australian Government Organisations Register as either a non-corporate Commonwealth entity, a corporate Commonwealth entity, or a Commonwealth company.
To be led by a National Armaments Director, the organisation will be originally formed on 1 July 2026, later evolving to an independent autonomous agency a year thereafter.
Caucus Executive 1935-1937 The following were members of the ALP Caucus Executive from October 1, 1935 to October 29, 1937: John Curtin - Leader of the Opposition and Leader of the Labor Party Hon.
Under UN Supreme Commander, General Douglas MacArthur, UN forces were conducting a successful amphibious assault at Inchon and a breakout from the Pusan Perimeter on the southern tip of the Korean peninsula.
The City of Norwood Payneham & St Peters is a metropolitan local government area of South Australia.
The permanent head of the department was Allan O'Brien, initially based in Darwin and later based in Canberra.
In January 1999, the Australian Transport Council (comprising each of Australia's transport ministers) voted to approve the final draft Rules submitted by the National Road Transport Commission, the Commonwealth and all states and territories except Western Australia approved the rules.
His older brothers included Methodist missionary Rodger Page and Australian prime minister Sir Earle Page.
In addition, the three governments contributed about $26 million each, a total of $79 million in further funding to support the APTC directly, by way of mezzanine debt financing (subordinated debt), equity, and contingent equity.
In 1975, Harris moved to the Australian National University where he was appointed to the Chair of Resource Economics in the Centre for Resource and Environmental Studies (later renamed the Fenner School of Environment and Society).
The Department of Defence Production was an Australian government department that existed between May 1951 and April 1958.
Structure The department was a Commonwealth Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for National Development and Energy, John Carrick.
He was then a Commonwealth Scholar and Jowett Senior Scholar at Balliol College of the University of Oxford where he completed a Master of Philosophy with distinction and a Doctor of Philosophy in political theory.
The site turned out to be unacceptable to the Government of New South Wales, due partly to its distance from Sydney and proximity to Victoria.
A departmental reshuffle in December 1984 saw him transitioning to become Secretary of the Department of Arts, Heritage and Environment.
The Department of Employment and Workplace Relations (also called DEWR) is an Australian government department formed on 1 July 2022.
He was a Queenslander who went into practice with his wife, Hilda Wienholt, in Red Hill, Queensland.
Andrew Peter Thomson (born 7 January 1961) is an Australian former politician who served as Minister for Sport and Tourism in the Howard government.
Notable contributors to the magazine have included Australian award-winning actor, Jack Thompson, AM, and the Australian Chief of the Defence Force, General Angus Campbell, AO, DSC.
He was appointed Secretary of the Department in July 1984, having acted in the role since February that year.
It had a single member during its existence, John Hope, who had previously represented the seat of Devonport and went on to represent the new Wilmot division.
He has previously been a political staffer for Bob Carr, a columnist with The Age and The Australian newspapers, a lecturer at Sydney and Monash Universities, and a research fellow with the Per Capita think tank.
Admitted to the Bar, Ronaldson practised as a barrister and solicitor in Ballarat before entering politics.
Yarning: The language and culture magazine, (formerly Defence Linguist Magazine) is an international quarterly magazine, published by the Australian Department of Defence.
On 1 July 2014, the Department of Economic Development, Tourism and the Arts was amalgamated with the department and the name was changed to the Department of State Growth.
They are joined by one assistant minister, Ged Kearney, who is the Assistant Minister for Social Services and Assistant Minister for the Prevention of Family Violence.
His election, along with several other Victorian MHRs first elected in March 1990, was largely a result of a protest vote swing against the Labor (John Cain) state government of the time.
However, there were unconfirmed reports that senior officials had been executed prior to the ship leaving Rabaul.
Thomas Plunkett Hayes is a retired senior Australian public servant, best known for his time at the Australian Customs Service.
OPC was initially responsible for drafting both primary and delegated legislation, and for printing laws.
It is a committee of the Cabinet of Australia, though decisions of the NSC do not require the endorsement of the Cabinet itself.
The 16th Field Regiment, Royal New Zealand Artillery, also managed to withdraw and link up with the US Army's 72nd Heavy Tank Battalion.
As such, NSC attendance also includes the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Department of Defence, the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the Department of the Treasury, and the Department of Home Affairs.
He served as Head of Commonwealth Protocol (2018–2019) and in various First Assistant Secretary roles in the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (2019–2021).
One form of strategy was declared at the 2002 Prague Summit, the NATO Active Layered Ballistic Missile Defense (ALTBMD).
Development of parliamentary sovereignty In England, by the mid-16th century, it was established that the "King in Parliament" held supreme legislative authority.
The Department of the Environment was an Australian government department that existed between October 1997 and October 1998.
After leaving Independent Pricing and Regulatory Tribunal in 2004, Parry joined Macquarie Bank to join a new Community Partnerships Funds Management business.
She did not contest the 1989 election for the new Legislative Assembly, and subsequently moved to Queensland.
The Sex Discrimination Bill cuts off far more than that." She was also a strong supporter of Lindy Chamberlain, founding the National Freedom Council as a co-ordinating body for her defence, and setting up a Plea for Justice committee in the ACT.
The feature editions focus on language, linguistic experiences, and the intersections of culture and communication.
Wyatt was appointed Minister for Aged Care and Minister for Indigenous Health in the Turnbull government in January 2017, after previously serving as an assistant minister since September 2015.
The seat was created ahead of the Assembly's first election held in 1856, and was abolished when the Tasmanian parliament adopted the Hare-Clark electoral model in 1909.
The constitutional practice of an "administrator of the government" is also found within the provinces of Canada, with provincial administrators of the government assuming the functions of the office of the lieutenant governor if its holder is incapable of rendering their duties.
Balance of power within the King-in-Parliament The concept of the King-in-Parliament holding supreme legislative authority is a core tenet of the Constitution of the United Kingdom and has application in the Westminster system more generally.
The seat was created in a redistribution ahead of the 1903 state election from the southern part of West Devon and smaller parts of Devonport, and was abolished when the Tasmanian parliament adopted the Hare-Clark electoral model in 1909.
Exceptions include the invasions of Warsaw Pact countries by the Soviet and other Warsaw Pact forces, to suppress opposition to communist government: Soviet military action during the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, and the 1968 Warsaw Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia.
At the outbreak of World War I, no Australian government agency was dedicated to security, intelligence or law enforcement.
This legislation sets forth a nationally consistent regulatory system for gene technology in Australia.
On 6 October 1997, he became Minister for Sport and Tourism, and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister for the Sydney 2000 Games.
Recall of deposit copies On 10 February 1999, after The Australian's revelations, the Australian Government Information Service (AusInfo), the government publisher, wrote to the deposit libraries.
Structure The department was an Australian Public Service department, staffed by officials who were responsible to the Minister for Primary Industry.
He serves as the current Chairman of the advisory board of the Australian National Computational Infrastructure (NCI), appointed in 2020 == References ==
Parry served as foundation chairman of the Independent Pricing and Regulatory Tribunal of New South Wales (IPART) for the 12 years to 2004.
With the ACT having two Senate seats, the ACT was represented in the Senate by the two former territory leaders.
Backbenchers have a microphone on their desk and merely stand to speak (unless they cannot stand), in accordance with standing order 60.
Every nation relies on a sense of community belonging, which can easily be damaged by the rapid entry of foreign people who unintentionally erode national cohesion.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements, in the Department's annual reports and on the Department's website.
She won four medals in the 1988 Seoul Paralympic Games in athletics, and competed in powerlifting from 2000 until her retirement from the sport in January 2011.
Defence and Australia's commitment to the Vietnam War was a prominent issue during the term of the Gorton government; funding for the arts was expanded, rates of pay were standardised between the men and women and the mining industry grew during the period.
Jarrod Munro Award – The memorial recognition award celebrates a volunteer's commitment and effort to the unit.
Ultimately, Labor needed a paper-thin victory in Martin's old seat of Fannie Bay to retain government with 13 of 25 seats, a one-seat majority.
In addition to its own Divisions, DIER also provided support to Private Forests Tasmania, Racing Services Tasmania, and Forest Practices Authority.
In July 2004, former senior diplomat and Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade Philip Flood who was head of the Inquiry into Australian Intelligence Agencies (also known as the Flood Report) tabled recommendations for the Australian Intelligence Community.
Under Fahour's direction, Australia Post had two consecutive years of profit growth (in FY2011 and FY2012) following steep profit declines in the preceding two years (FY2009 and FY2010), as Australian letter volumes started to decline.
The Department of Social Services (DSS) is a department of the Australian Government responsible for national policies and programs related to social welfare and social security.
The Department was created with responsibility for the manufacture and supply of munitions (armaments, ammunition, weapons, machine tools, war chemicals, radar), aircraft production and defence production planning.
The Forum was established by the Government of Canada in 1999 and currently has nine other partner governments: Australia, Brazil, Ethiopia, Germany, India, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan and Switzerland.
In 1886 Topp succeeded Andrew Harper as warden of the senate of Melbourne University, succeeded in 1890 by Thomas P.
Merger The agency merges 3 prior Department of Defence procurement groups, each responsible for a niche of acquisition.
It occupied the western half of the Hundred of Para Wirra, the eastern remainder being administered by the District Council of Mount Crawford, which was established the same day.
The influence of the House of Lords has also been significantly limited, most notably by the Parliament Acts 1911 and 1949, which allow money bills to be passed against the wishes of the House of Lords.
Australian Natives' Association Within the ANA Roberts seems to have been valued more for his business acumen than his oratory.
At this time the CES delivered almost all federally funded employment services, however over time more and more funding was allocated to ESRA to put out to tender.
References External links Walsh Report on the Electronic Frontiers Australia website Electronic Signatures in Law, Stephen Masoh (2003)
Prime ministers who were Fathers of the House Only one prime minister has held both that office and been Father of the House: John McEwen, from December 1967 until January 1968.
He says this has only become an issue because the republicans have been unable to raise other reasons to change the constitution, highlighting that it was argued nine times by the republicans in the official Yes/No booklet sent to voters in the referendum.
As such, Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser established the Office of National Assessments through the Office of National Assessments Act 1977, ensuring the ONA had statutory independence from government.
The Pacific and Papua New Guinea (PNG) were only slightly cut, while Sub-Saharan Africa was slashed by 70%, and aid to the Middle East was cut by 43%.
The electoral district of Kentish was a single-member electoral district of the Tasmanian House of Assembly.
The Australian Department of Defence, along with the Australian state and other governments, partially fund the Australian Strategic Policy Institute (ASPI), a defence and strategic policy think tank based in Canberra, Australian Capital Territory.
Winners Winners and shortlists Australian history Children's fiction Fiction Nonfiction Poetry Young adult fiction Notes References External links Official website
However, the vice-president cannot sign Executive Council documents on behalf of the Governor-General.
Comparison with other Commonwealth realms In some of the fifteen Commonwealth realms, the monarch is explicitly defined as the head of state.
He was promoted to Commander of the Order in December 1960 whilst Secretary of the Department of Supply.
In early November 2025, Burgess stated that three unidentified countries were capable of assassinating perceived political dissidents in Australia.
The agency will consist of the merged Capability Acquisition and Sustainment Group, Guided Weapons and Explosive Ordnance Group (GWEO) and the Naval Shipbuilding and Sustainment Group (NSSG).
In July 1987, Glenn was appointed Secretary of the Australian Government Department of Administrative Services, serving in that role until March 1989 when he was to become the Secretary of the Department of Industrial Relations.
A set of the photos and 500 leaflets were sent to Paris, more to Amsterdam and to branches of the Audubon Society in the USA.
Frank Forde - Deputy Leader of the Opposition and Deputy Leader of the Labor Party Senator Joe Collings - Leader of the Opposition in the Senate Senator James Cunningham - Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the Senate Hon Norman Makin - Secretary Hon.
In 1982, Galvin was appointed as a Deputy Secretary in the Department of Home Affairs and Environment.
It was based in central Tasmania in towns such as Bothwell, Hamilton and Ouse, and until 1894 included much of the West Coast before the mining districts of Zeehan and Queenstown became large enough to require their own seats.
It has since merged in 2002 with the Queensland Crime Commission to form the Crime and Misconduct Commission.
Background and early life Peter Core was schooled at the James Ruse Agricultural High School in New South Wales.
The department is focused on developing Australian taxation system, land and income tax and economic policies.
From time to time, the commission develops maintenance packages for the Rules which are submitted to the Australian Transport Council for the approval of Australia's Transport Ministers and for the ultimate adoption and roll out across the states and territories.
He worked in Singapore, Abu Dhabi, Saudi Arabia and Beijing before returning to live in Tokyo in early 2011 where he had worked in his twenties.
Her reign of 63 years and 216 days, which was longer than those of any of her predecessors, constituted the Victorian era, a period of industrial, political, scientific, and military change within the United Kingdom marked by a great expansion of the British Empire.
She first became a Liberal Party office-holder in 1973 as president of the Balmoral branch and was later elected as the chairman of the Liberal Party Convention Committee from 1981 to 1985 and as the first female president of the NSW Liberals from 1985 to 1987.
History The department was formed by way of an Administrative Arrangements Order issued on 1 June 2022.
War powers The Constitution of Australia does not contain a provision that expressly states who is responsible for committing Australia to war.
Roberts, was secretary and long-term member of the Flemington branch of the ANA, and was elected to the position of Chief President of the association in March 1899.
This initial stage would be finalised on 1 July 2026, with the creation of the combined group led by the National Armaments Director.
Fraser was appointed Official Secretary to the Governor-General of Australia on 27 June 2014, succeeding Stephen Brady.
Under the system, significant emphasis is placed on moving digitally literate job seekers away from "Employment Service Providers" towards a web based self-service obligations scheme.
From 2006 to 2010, she worked on the development and prepared for the launch of the National Indigenous Television.
Bronwyn and Alan Bishop have two daughters; Angela, an entertainment reporter for Network Ten, and Sally.
On 13 November 2024, the Federal Minister for Regional Development, local Government and Territories, Kristy McBain, announced a new governance model for the island – the Norfolk Island Assembly – and the extension of the administration period under a new administration team replacing Colreavy.
The Secretaries of the Department were Thomas Trumble (1921‑1927), Malcolm Shepherd (1927‑1937), and finally Frederick Shedden (1937‑1939).
She was named Young Australian of the Year in 1985; Australia Day Council Chairman John Newcombe described McIntyre as "an inspiration not only to the disabled but to the able bodied.
It consists of a white flag, with the national flag in canton, a large 7-pointed star, and three blue vertical bars, with a red border overall.
Description The portrait shows Philip in uniform with his left-hand thumb resting in his blazer pocket and, thus, is noted for giving off a mix of formal and casual appearance.
Towns and districts in Australia which subscribed twice their quota of funds to the Commonwealth Government's Seventh War Loan in 1918 were presented with the Honour Flag.
The 2018 Australian federal budget indicated that the Robodebt data matching scheme would be extended into 2021 with the aim of recovering an additional A$373 million from welfare recipients.
Unedited versions of legislation taken from the Federal Register of Legislation are able to be held as "authorised versions" of such legislation, and are admissible to court.
The Bankstown Observer, a free weekly newspaper distributed throughout areas of suburban Sydney that included the Reid electorate, was owned by Raymond Edward Fitzpatrick, a Bankstown businessman and political rival of Morgan.
Early life Watts was born in the village of Sallins, County Kildare Ireland to Charles Watts and his wife Margaret (née Boyse).
He entered the role at a time of significant change, with the Minister for Industrial Relations Laurie Brereton planning a major re-write of the Industrial Relations Act.
He assumed the portfolios as Minister for Veterans' Affairs, Minister Assisting the Prime Minister for the Centenary of ANZAC and Special Minister of State on 18 September 2013, but was replaced in the First Turnbull Ministry when Malcolm Turnbull replaced Tony Abbott as prime minister.
A number of editions were published including versions adapted to the law of Australia and New Zealand.
The Isaacs appointment An important change in the relationship between the Sovereign and the Australian government and the Governor-General of Australia was marked by the appointment of Sir Isaac Isaacs as Governor-General.
Such data is usually transferred only after meeting local privacy or data protection laws, such as giving the user notice of how the information will be used, and obtaining their consent.
In addition to these changes, the controversial "Job Search Effort" mutual obligations work test, in which job seekers were required to apply for 20 jobs a month, was replaced with the "Points Based Activation System".
The List of Overseas Places of Historic Significance to Australia (LOPHSA) is a list of sites outside Australian jurisdiction deemed to be of outstanding historic significance to Australia.
The Executive Group (Senior Management Team) was made up of the Secretary, Deputy Secretaries, and the General Manager Corporate Services.
In South East Queensland, the Commission established a regional water grid known as the SEQ Water Grid and the Western Corridor Recycled Water Project.
The debate surrounded a skills shortage, the housing crisis and a growing awareness among Australian people for the benefits of immigration.
Unlike the governors, who are appointed by the sovereign on advice of the premier, the administrator is appointed by the governor-general on advice of the prime minister after consultation with the chief minister.
They also provide and develop invaluable comparative international experiences supporting both the development of solutions to multilevel governance challenges, and the overall body of knowledge in the field.
Yarra Valley Water owns and maintains over 10,400km of water mains and over 10,300km of sewer mains.
The Commonwealth Journal of Local Governance is a journal published by the Commonwealth Local Government Forum and the UTS Centre for Local Government (University of Technology, Sydney).
He has held positions as Director of the WA Office of Aboriginal Health as well as a similar post with NSW Health.
He entered parliament in April 1995 in a Wentworth by-election after Dr John Hewson vacated the seat when he retired from politics after being dumped from the Downer Shadow Cabinet and not reinstated into Howard's.
The Frontbench of John Curtin was the federal Australian Labor Party frontbench from October 1, 1935 until Curtin's death on July 5, 1945.
In 1980 Neville Wran, the Premier of New South Wales, announced his intention to introduce a bill that would require the Queen to be advised by Australian state ministers alone on matters concerning the governance of that state.
He served as Managing Director of the Rural Industries Research and Development Corporation from 1996 to 2002 and afterwards became Chief Executive Officer of the Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research.
The King-in-Council or the Queen-in-Council, depending on the gender of the reigning monarch, is a constitutional term in a number of states.
The Forum is concerned with the contribution that multi-level government can make to democracy building and democratic consolidation.
3 February 1961 – 3 August 1961; General Sir Dallas Brooks, Governor of Victoria since October 1949, ascended to the position by the power of his dormant commission after the death of The Viscount Dunrossil.
Roberts described himself as a Liberal, but his opinions tended to the conservative side of politics.
To become an accredited specialist, a solicitor must meet certain requirements and go through various examination stages, testing their skills and knowledge in the specific area of the law that they are competent in.
On 13 May 2025, the National Disability Insurance Scheme and Foundational Supports were transferred from the department to the newly renamed Department of Health, Disability and Ageing, and housing, rental and homelessness policy were transferred from the department to the Treasury.
The boundaries and names of the suburbs were further stabilised when postcodes were introduced to Australia in 1967.
He also recommended that relations between ASIO and State and Territory police forces be regulated by arrangements between governments.
However, other than fuel trains to Alice Springs and mineral unit trains, freight traffic has been all-through on the post-2004 standard-gauge route.
Once a solicitor fulfils the requirements, they are entitled to use the prestigious title of accredited specialist after their name to differentiate themselves as experts in that area of law.
Scope Information about the department's functions and government funding allocation could be found in the Administrative Arrangements Orders, the annual Portfolio Budget Statements, in the department's annual reports and on the Department's website.
This includes the initial assessment of regulatory matters, ASQA’s extensive audit program and the growing focus on investigations and enforcement action in serious cases.
Prior to his working at the Bureau of Meteorology, Ayers was Chief of Marine and Atmospheric Research at the CSIRO, where he had worked since 1975.
The water distributed by Yarra Valley Water is supplied by Melbourne Water, as is the infrastructure.
The Duke of Cornwall and York, May 9, 1901, more commonly known in Australia as The Big Picture, is a 1903 painting by the Australian artist Tom Roberts.
He was the Minister for International Development and the Pacific in the Morrison government from December 2020 to May 2022, and previously served as an assistant minister in the Morrison and Turnbull governments since 2016.
The Senior Advisory Group (SAG) is co-chaired by Professor Tom Calma , Chancellor of the University of Canberra, and Professor Dr Marcia Langton, Associate Provost at the University of Melbourne, and as of October 2019 comprised a total of 20 leaders and experts from across the country.
The Supreme Court ultimately resolved the matter in Brown's favour, and a new seat, Montagu, was created which Urquhart stood for and won.
The electoral district of East Launceston, sometimes referred to as Launceston East, was a single-member electoral district of the Tasmanian House of Assembly.
Blainey asserts that the preferential treatment of Asian immigrants arose partly from a sense of guilt over the Vietnam War, but it also reflected Canberra's misguided view that more trade with Asian countries would come with a larger Asian population.
The Department of Defence was an Australian government department that existed between December 1921 and November 1939.
On that episode, they called it "Correction Time." The first time it was known as "Listener Mail" was on January 8, 2009, an episode that was inspired by a listener's email.
The podcast covered a range of topics ranging from information overload and digital clutter, to sexting, and the eavesdropping capabilities of our gadgets.
Guest appearances The show has regularly interviewed and has guest appearances of business executives, founders, and celebrities.
After the change of format in 2022, with the exception of Apodaca's welcome the catchphrases have mostly been dropped, with Campbell deciding to save "Welcome Back Bucket" for special occasions.
In another video segment, Internet Roundup, Chuck and Josh highlighted a couple of posts found deep in the web that they found interesting, entreating or amusing.
In January 2022, the podcast changed formats to shift away from intentionally playing bad games, in part to improve the experience for guests and the hosts.
Around the same time, the people responsible for filming the shows, the Pixel Corps and their leader, Alex Lindsay became more involved with the show, with many also contributing.
A sponsorship deal with America Online was announced on July 4, 2005, following the server demand that resulted from the release of iTunes 4.9's built-in podcasting directory.
Her television acting credits include guest appearances on Law & Order: Special Victims Unit, Criminal Minds, The Bold and the Beautiful and The Vampire Diaries.
Designing with Web Standards reiterates many of the arguments made by the Web Standards Project to highlight the benefits of standards-compliant web design.
Leo Laporte (; born November 29, 1956) is the former host of The Tech Guy weekly radio show and founder of TWiT.tv, an Internet podcast network focusing on technology.
Career Jeffrey Zeldman briefly worked as a reporter for The Washington Post and ten years as an advertising copywriter before turning to web design in 1995.
As of January 2024, TED Radio Hour has earned 4 wins and 2 nominations, which includes: The Webby Awards 2018 Winner for Best Science and Education Podcasts (General Series).
Both Goldman and Dzotsi left the show in 2022 with the final episode released on June 23 of that year.
Aggregators have all three of the following characteristics: direct relationship with users; zero marginal costs for serving users; and demand-driven multi-sided networks with decreasing acquisition costs.
The talks (all of which have been previously recorded and released by TED) are supplemented by follow-up interviews with the speaker, original reporting and other segments that bring the ideas to life.
Windows Metafile controversy In January 2006, Steve Gibson accused Microsoft of intentionally putting a backdoor into the Windows Metafile processing code in Windows 2000 and Windows XP.
In later episodes the question would be posed by the merchant from Resident Evil 4, voiced by Campbell.
Speakers, in addition to offering informative content, must have made major contributions to web design or development in order to qualify to speak at the event.
Format Episodes generally consist of one-on-one interviews conducted by Bret Kugelmass, Jadwiga Najder, Olubunmi Olajide, or Naomi Senehi with guests who are experts in nuclear energy.
In May 2019, Recode was integrated into Vox Media's flagship website, Vox, becoming the column Recode by Vox.
Co-hosts include frequent collaborators Brian Ibbott from Coverville, Brian Dunaway from Comics Coast to Coast, and Randy Jordan (formerly of The Instance).
They began producing episodes for Wow in the World together and the podcast debuted on May 15, 2017.
The logo design originated from a traditional logic gate symbol of an "AND gate" turned on its side.
Bibliography Laporte has written technology-oriented books including: He has published a yearly series of technology almanacs: Laporte announced in October 2006 that he would not renew his contract with Que Publishing, and had retired from publishing books.
Endless Thread is a podcast from Boston-based WBUR, in partnership with Reddit, that focuses on stories relating to Reddit posts.
The full set is available via YouTube and the Internet Archive References External links Official website Ubuntu Podcast's channel on YouTube Archive of all episodes
In 2016, Zeldman's business association with Happy Cog ended, and he launched an independent design consultancy called Studio Zeldman.
Topics covered ranged from racism on Facebook, to a neuroscientist's view on information overload, to a piece by performance artist Marina Abramović which involved an audience sitting in total silence wearing noise-canceling headphones for 30 minutes before a live performance of J.S.
As the hosts encourage their audience to watch the material prior to the episode, they attempt to focus on items available via streaming media, primarily Netflix.
Most releases of the show were licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution Non-Commercial No-Derivatives licence, but shows released after December 2007 are under the Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 Unported licence.
On March 6, 2023, Vox media announced that in order to make the various Vox sub brands less confusing to its readers, it was retiring Recode brand but would continue its mission to explain complex issues around technology to its readers under the unified Vox brand.
Julian Feeld has told Wired that QAnon is "a colorful expression of a broader and more worrying global trend towards 'information warfare' in the service of those seeking to consolidate capital and power".
Starting in November 2021, Thompson began hosting a weekly headline podcast entitled Plain English, part of The Ringer Podcast Network.
Ethics of XR Bye is an advocate for discourse around the ethics and moral dilemmas presented by VR and AR.
When Ezarik first moved to Los Angeles, she was managed by Richard Frias who also manages YouTube celebrities HappySlip and KevJumba, but according to a post on Ezarik's alternate Twitter account she was unmanaged and earned money by appearing at conferences and in online promotional spots.
Production For the first 40 episodes, Rhysider was responsible for all of the research, writing, narrating, editing, sound design, publishing, marketing, and logistics.
In a post explaining the move, he cited a desire for more editorial freedom and to write for himself after almost two decades at a single publication.
Later on, due to a passionate cult following, Rhysider was able to enlist the help of additional writers, researchers, editors, and graphic designers.
This includes science, intellectual property, venture capital, bioenterprise finance, bioenterprise law, strategic market insights, regulatory expertise, biostrategic media relations, bioethics, bioenterprise information systems, social policy and multinational expertise.
Tech News Today was the recipient of the 2012 International Academy of Web Television award for Best News Web Series.
In January 2014, Zeis was also named Editor-in-Chief of Smartwatch Fans, a fan site that was focused purely on smartwatches and wearable devices.
When Sites asked her to turn off her lifecasting equipment later in the interview, he noted that "at once the conversation seemed more relaxed and natural," and she discussed the difficulty of having people watching and publicly judging her all day.
In 2016, she was an advisor to Arnold Schwarzenegger on the reality competition series The New Celebrity Apprentice.
Meanwhile, Current Geek Weekly is a weekly discussion of geek culture stories and the companion podcast to the Current Geek podcasts still produced by Frogpants Studios.
Early life Jeffrey Zeldman was born on January 12, 1955, in Queens, New York, to the robotics engineer Maurice Zeldman and his wife Phyllis Sylvia Zeldman.
Sponsors of the network include Ford, Audible, Lantronix, Squarespace, Hulu, Rackspace, Hover, Carbonite, Stamps.com and more.
By June 2009, she had 590,000 Twitter followers, 94,000 subscribers to the iJustine YouTube channel, and 25,000 Facebook fans.
Launched in October 2017, episodes average around 30 minutes to an hour, each covering a single topic through original interviews, audio footage, and Rhysider's narration.
LugRadio was a British podcast on the topic of Linux and events in the free and open source software communities, as well as coverage of technology, digital rights and politics.
Photocastnetwork The podcast is also the flagship show of the Photocast Network, a community of podcasters producing content related to photography.
In 2008, Laporte did a voice narration of Andrew Lang's fable The True History of Little Golden-hood from Audible (Amazon), a sponsor.
In a variation on this segment called "Sports, Sports, Sports", Blumberg instead explains sports-related tweets to Vogt and Goldman.
During the first few years TWiT episodes were made available in a variety of file formats for individual download or RSS subscription.
In September 2008, Revision3 started Revision3 Beta, a "talent-farming" sub-network of unofficial shows headed by Martin Sargent.
Format and distribution Waveform episodes are typically released on a weekly schedule and range from approximately 45 to 130 minutes in length, with monthly bonus episodes.
Wow in the World is a children's podcast hosted by children's media and audio veterans Guy Raz and Mindy Thomas.
Thomas Andrew Merritt (born June 28, 1970) is an American technology journalist, writer, and broadcaster best known as the host of several podcasts.
The change was marked by the omission of NPR's name in the show's opening audio sequence after the tagline, "You're listening to Radiolab...from WNYC." Horne left RadioLab in 2015, and Krulwich retired as co-host in February 2020.
Production Linux Outlaws was recorded simultaneously by the presenters in their respective homes – Hanover and Merseyside, England – and published in both the Ogg Vorbis and MP3 formats.
The show was based in the United Kingdom, and had a community forum as well as multiple social network accounts dedicated to fostering inter-communication among fans.
The podcast initially launched as an audio-only show distributed on platforms including Apple Podcasts, Spotify, and Google Podcasts.
On April 21, 2008, on the 47th episode of Systm, it was announced that Chief Engineer and co-host David Randolph had left for another job outside of Revision3.
TED Radio Hour is a weekly, hour-long radio program and podcast, produced as a co-production between TED (conference) and National Public Radio.
Producers In addition to Nora Young, producers included Michelle Parise, Adam Killick, Kent Hoffman Dan Misener, Elizabeth Bowie and Carma Jolly.
I've been converted." In 1985, following Steve Jobs leaving Apple, Dvorak wrote, "Maybe when the smoke clears, we will have heard the last of Steve Jobs as guru, seer, visionary and hapless victim too ...
Though the audio production company Defacto Sound, which is owned by Taylor, is the production headquarters for Twenty Thousand Hertz, he has said that the podcast is not intended as content marketing.
Episodes typically include discussion of recent technology news, analysis of consumer electronics products, and recurring segments such as trivia games or typing challenges at the end of episodes.
The name was inspired by the audience communicating to Zomorodi that they listen to the show because they are interested in the "purposeful use of technology." Zomorodi released a book entitled "Bored and Brilliant: How Spacing Out Can Unlock Your Most Productive and Creative Self" with St.
Radio and television From December 1977 to May 1998, Laporte hosted newstalk and interview shows on KGO, KSFO, and KNBR in San Francisco.
Following the August 6, 2009, Twitter Denial-of-service attack Ezarik was featured in The Wall Street Journal describing her coping mechanisms, such as repeatedly tapping the F5 function key (the refresh button), for Twitter outages.
An annual segment, Email Debt Forgiveness Day, created an annual holiday on April 30 inviting listeners to send responses to old emails no matter how overdue.
LugRadio Live LugRadio Live was an annual event organised by the LugRadio team and held in Wolverhampton.
On Tech Nation, Gunn's focus has always been on the societal impact of technology and science, understanding the nature of innovation, and giving everyday listeners a sense of how to deal with the technological tsunami around them.
Annie Kelly acts as the podcast's United Kingdom correspondent and joined the podcast as the conspiracy theory spread from the United States to other countries, such as when it was accelerated by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Diggnation (rebooted) has also featured special guests: Episode 3: Glenn McElhose Episode 11: Jason Calacanis, Chris Sacca, Tim Ferriss, and Alexis Ohanian Episode 13: Doctor Tiki and Lala of Tiki Bar TV Episode 14: Digg Advisor Jayci Hayes Awards 2006: Podcast Award for best technology podcast.
On May 18, 2022, it was announced that hosts Dzotsi and Goldman were leaving the show and the current iteration of Reply All would end on June 23, 2022.
A number of episodes of the parallel BBC radio documentary series 30 Animals That Made Us Smarter were included as bonuses in the podcast feed of early episodes of series 2.
The Atlantic included the episode "Shine on, You Crazy Goldman" on their list of "The 50 Best Podcast Episodes of 2015".
Guests have included professors, business executives, politicians, diplomats, scientists, and others.
The series has Ezarik and Nguyen getting lost in various locales and solving their problems using AT&T equipment.
Usually there were three in-depth stories, each of which was separated by a clip of Creative Commons licensed music.
History The program began when Laporte recorded a one-off round-table discussion between himself, Patrick Norton, Sarah Norton, Kevin Rose, David Prager, and Roger Chang at the 2005 Macworld Expo in San Francisco.
Previous regular presenters were Matthew Revell (Seasons 1 – 4), Adrian Bradshaw (Seasons 2 – 4) and Stephen Parkes (Season 1, and the first few shows of Season 2).
In 2006, LugRadio won the award for Best Marketing Campaign at the UK Linux and Open Source Awards in London and won the award for Best Linux Podcast in the Christmas 2007 edition of Linux Format magazine.
Background In 2014, Guy Raz and Mindy Thomas had a Twitter exchanged that led to some collaborations.
It airs on the National Public Radio "NPR Now" channel at SiriusXM 122, public radio stations both nationally and internationally, and the Internet in a number of podcast syndication outlets podcast.
Throughout high school, Denson was a member of the marching band, and participated on the swim team, track, cross country, and golf.
Harford explained in a BBC interview in 2017 that his motivation for creating the show was "to paint a picture of economic change by telling the stories of the ideas, people, and tools that had far-reaching consequences".
Its books are designed to be quick reads and treat advanced topics in web design with a strong point of view.
The nomination cited its unusual social media presence, including an event where the hosts accepted phone calls from listeners for 48 hours straight.
The process of starting their company is documented in the podcast ZigZag, which is also their first production.
References External links Official website Leo Laporte at IMDb Leo Laporte in libraries (WorldCat catalog)
The scopes of the two sites were not expected to overlap with Recode's emphasis on technology industry business and The Verge's on "being a new kind of culture publication".
In 2007, Mevio hired Dvorak as vice president and Managing Editor for a new Mevio TECH channel, where he manages content from existing Mevio tech programming.
In 2019, the podcast was named the best podcast of the year by Dutch newspaper De Volkskrant and the sixth best podcast of the year by The New Yorker.
It was picked up by Business Insider, The Huffington Post, CNN, Heise, and a televised CNBC discussion segment, among others.
He appeared on Marketwatch TV and This Week in Tech, a podcast audio and now video program hosted by Leo Laporte and featuring other former TechTV personalities such as Patrick Norton, Kevin Rose, and Robert Heron.
More recently, he has hosted two podcasts: Neutral and the Accidental Tech Podcast, with John Siracusa and Casey Liss.
As of January 2023, Radiolab has earned 13 podcast industry award nominations, including 7 wins, including the 2013 People's Choice Podcast Award for Best Science and Medicine Podcast and the 2015 People's Choice Podcast Award for Best Produced Podcast.
The one-on-one discussions typically revolve around nuclear energy and related topics including political policy, climate change, and nuclear medicine.
Gunn was awarded the Public Service Award to the Individual by the National Science Board, for her contributions to the public understanding of science and engineering.
Mossberg and Swisher planned to continue their prominent, annual All Things Digital conference, which they renamed the "Code" conference and scheduled for the same time and location: late May at Terranea Resort in Rancho Palos Verdes, California.
Boiling Point, which he later narrated as an audiobook, describes a near future United States civil war.
In July 2014 he returned to The Verge as editor-in-chief, after Joshua Topolsky left the position to work at Bloomberg.
In July 2021, Friedberg announced that The Production Board raised $300 million from Alphabet, Baillie Gifford, Allen & Co., BlackRock, Koch Disruptive Technologies and Morgan Stanley's Counterpoint Global.
Additionally, upwards of 80 percent of listeners reported that the program's pace was exciting, and over 80 percent reported that the layering of interviews was engaging.
Vox Media acquired the website in May 2015 in a move that The New York Times described as a reflection of tumult in online technology journalism.
Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher founded it in January 2014, after they left Dow Jones and the similar website they had previously co-founded, All Things Digital.
At the Berkman Center for Internet & Society he leads ProjectVRM, which guides independent software development communities working on Vendor Relationship Management (VRM).
The program was formerly known as Call for Help when it was recorded in the US and Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Originally started on July 7, 2009, Fourcast had Merritt and Johnson inviting guests to discuss the future and what it might contain in a so-called virtual fireside setting.
Other early guests in 2018 included eventual Assistant Secretary of Energy for Nuclear Energy and head of the Office of Nuclear Energy, Rita Baranwal, and individuals associated with both the Idaho National Laboratory and the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory.
As of May 22, 2017, she was working for Microsoft as a Senior Cloud Developer Advocate where she, among other things, hosted This Week in Channel 9.
Each episode was originally broadcast on BBC World Service, with a subsequent broadcast on BBC Radio 4 and distribution as a BBC podcast.
The show attracted about five hundred Linux enthusiasts from many countries around the world with several travelling from as far as Europe and Australia.
Journalism Zeis graduated West Morris Mendham High School in 1997 and attended Fairleigh Dickinson University with a major in Computer Science.
Reception Charlotte Hilton Andersen wrote in Reader's Digest that the hosts "have a knack for picking science stories that kids will find fascinating".
As part of the Mobile Nations network, Smartwatch Fans was the first non-mobile site under the Mobile Nations name.
Christina Warren (born November 12, 1982), is an American developer advocate, podcaster, and writer.
Lawyers from TWiT believed this violated a spoken agreement between Leo Laporte and Twitter co-founder Evan Williams made in 2009, and infringed on TWiT's trademark.
Design agency In 1999, Zeldman founded Happy Cog, a web and interaction design studio specializing in user-and content-focused, standards-compliant design.
Rich DeMuro later appeared on the show to announce that he would take over in January with a weekly show, recorded on Saturdays, called "Rich On Tech." Laporte appeared on Friday mornings on KFI with Bill Handel, and previously on such shows as Showbiz Tonight, Live with Kelly, and World News Now.
Podcasting Zeis is best known for his hosting role on the CrackBerry.com podcast alongside Kevin Michaluk and Chris (Bla1ze) Parsons.
Discussions revolve around nuclear power as an alternative and potentially carbon-negative energy source.
The Book (Prentice Hall PTR, October, 2003) with co-authors Wendy Taylor and Chris Pirillo and his latest e-book is Inside Track 2013.
Vogt and Alex Goldman, who were the show's original hosts; they had previously hosted the technology and culture podcast TLDR for WNYC.
Episodes of Twenty Thousand Hertz have also been featured on the Radiotopia productions 99% Invisible and The Allusionist.
The podcast and its guests are broadly proponents of the proliferation of nuclear energy, but some guests have taken an opposing position.
Ezarik signed with the William Morris Endeavor in July 2017, and she was named one of the top 10 Top Tech/Business Influencers by Forbes for 2017.
On February 23, 2014, before recording TWiT 446, Laporte stated that episode bandwidth for the entire network is around 950 terabytes per month.
His byline has also appeared in many other publications, including OMNI, Wired, PC Magazine, The Standard, The Sun Magazine, Upside, Release 1.0 and The Globe and Mail.
The third, "The Anti-Social Century," published in the magazine's February 2025 issue, points out that Americans are spending more time alone than ever before.
Laporte hosted the daily television show The Lab with Leo Laporte, recorded in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
After their initial funding fell through, Zomorodi and Poyant partnered with Civil, a marketplace that used blockchain technology to distribute news but Civil shut down in 2020.
It is co-hosted by Travis View (real name: Logan Strain), Julian Feeld, and Jake Rockatansky, alongside Annie Kelly (British correspondent), Liv Agar (Canadian correspondent), Brad Abrahams (Inner Earth correspondent), and Allie Mezei (QAA Legal Analyst).
Laporte had been a midday, general-interest radio host until the increasing popularity of Rush Limbaugh, after which he created and co-hosted the tech talk radio show On Computers from January 1991 to July 1994.
Among Searls' contributions to the Manifesto was its first thesis, "Markets are conversations"—also the title of the Cluetrain chapter he co-wrote with David Weinberger.
Crossovers and appearances Rhysider has made appearances on a variety of other programs, the most notable being Snap Judgment and the Lit Hub/Podglomerate Storybound.
People's Choice Podcast Awards 2018 People's Voice Award Winner for Best Science and Education Podcast.
Instead, I looked back at what I wrote with regret, guilt, and embarrassment." Arment expressed remorse for adding to the fear of imminent doom that regularly surrounds Apple instead of the more gradual decline in quality and constructive criticism he intended.
The first book in the series was titled Wow in the World: The How and Wow of The Human Body and the second was titled Wow in the Wild: The Amazing World of Animals.
Early life Justine Ezarik was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the oldest daughter of Michelle Ezarik, a physical education teacher, and Steve Ezarik, a coal miner of Slovak descent.
Note to Self was a podcast hosted by Manoush Zomorodi that focused on the impacts of technology on everyday life.
which debuted on May 17, 2017 and produced by Tinkercast, LLC, a company established by Thomas and Raz to produce children's audio., and distributed by Wondery.
Innovation Crush podcast In 2013, Denson launched Innovation Crush, an interview series focused on the lives and projects of some of the world's most influential innovators.
Denson attended Michigan State University, where he earned a degree in packaging engineering and was a member of the school's martial arts team.
In September 2025, TBPN hired former Postmates and HQ Trivia executive Dylan Abruscato as President.
On September 16, 2015, Arment released Peace, a Safari content blocker for iOS 9 using the Ghostery database.
Career After a brief stint as an engineer at Daimler-Chrysler, Denson moved to Los Angeles to pursue the entertainment industry full-time.
LugRadio Live UK 2008 took place on the weekend of 19 July 2008 at the Light House Media Centre in Wolverhampton.
Nilay Patel () is an American editor and blogger who has been editor-in-chief of technology news website The Verge since 2014.
In high school he led the environmental club "Students H.O.P.E." (Students Healing Our Planet Earth).
Both Dan and Fabian are described as "down to earth, normal, everyday people" by listeners and reviewers alike.
Early life Denson was born in Detroit, Michigan to Christine Denson, a school teacher, and John Denson, a theologian.
Each 30-minute episode features panel discussions and interviews with industry guests who discuss topics such as social media, streaming platforms, online privacy, and video games.
In 2015, a virtual reality blog called Road to VR started to syndicate all future episodes of the Voices of VR podcast on their website.
Episode 27 ("Chartbreakers") was highlighted for its investigation into the manipulation of the Apple Podcasts Top Charts through a vast industry termed as "dark podcast marketing".
Patel coined the term "Google Zero" to criticize the direction of search engines like Google Search integrating LLM tools like AI Overviews, which scrape media outlets for content and reduce click-through web traffic.
Awards and recognition Zomorodi has won numerous journalism awards including the New York Press Club Award for Journalism.
She stated that she did not intend to broadcast what she considers private moments, noting "That shouldn't be a problem.
Education In 2003, Patel earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science from the University of Chicago.
The new deal also allowed Laporte to solicit his traditional TWiT advertisers to sponsor the podcast feeds, while retaining his advertisers for the radio version.
He also hosts Top Four with his wife Tiffany Arment and Under the Radar with David Smith, both on Relay FM.
Adam Zeis is an American writer and podcaster born in Morristown, New Jersey, on November 14, 1978, who currently serves as the Managing Editor of The Streamable.
The show current only has a modest live general viewership though it's is reported to be influential with Technology and Venture capital insiders.
The show was financed by its hosts and is recorded in Thomas's basement studio in Fairfax, Virginia.
Tips from the Top Floor is a podcast which presents tips and tricks about photography, mainly digital photography, in episodes normally ranging from 5 to 15 minutes in length and covering topics from image composition to post processing.
These consist of humorous 60 second videos where Clark and Bryant converse about subjects they covered on previous podcasts while doing a variety of random activities (playing checkers, getting fitted for a suit, going to a doctor, driving through a car wash).
Davies of The Guardian called it "perhaps the best-ever episode of any podcast" and "an incredibly emotive piece of storytelling." See also Internet culture List of technology podcasts References External links Official website
The Amazon-owned podcast network Wondery agreed to distribute the Tinkercast assets in September the same year.
In 2011, This Week in Tech was named "Best Technology Podcast", and TWiT Photo was named "Best New Technology Podcast" by iTunes Rewind.
Guest presenters on the show include Andy Piper, Anton Piatek, Dan Kermac, Emma Marshall, Joe Ressington, Joey Sneddon, Jon Spriggs, Laura Czajkowski, Paul Tansom and Stuart Langridge.
In addition to these regular shows, Merritt hosted live breaking news coverage of major technology events on TWiT's live stream such as WWDC, Google I/O and the resignation and death of Steve Jobs.
She is perhaps best known as the host of the public radio program Tech Nation, its regular segment BioTech Nation, as well as the weekly tech-sci commentary, Five Minutes.
2009: Streamy Award for Best Hosted Web Series (nomination) 2010: Streamy Award for Best Hosted Web Series (won) Other shows A spin-off show, The Digg Reel ran from January 2008 to September 2010, and was originally hosted by Jessica Corbin, followed by Andrew Bancroft.
aggregators such as Google and Facebook) come to dominate the industries in which they compete in a systematic and predictable way.
The content of the podcast was a combination of facts and research as well as real life experiences and personal stories.
The Production Board In 2016 Friedberg began speaking with Larry Page about building and financing startups focused on food, agriculture, decarbonization, and life sciences.
A longtime advocate for open-source software, he has been involved with the Linux Journal since it began publishing in 1994.
In December 2020, Titans of Nuclear conducted a miniseries of interviews with individuals from the United States Department of Energy's Gateway for Accelerated Innovation in Nuclear (GAIN) program.
Jordi Hays founded Branded Native, a YouTube advertising company, as well as a fintech company called Capital (formerly called Party Round) with his wife, Sarah Chase Hays and led the company to its acquisition by Rho Technologies in August 2023.
Thompson contends that this surge in solitude is fundamentally reshaping personalities, politics, and culture, noting that people are increasingly opting for solitude even when it doesn't make them happier.
Format Each episode varies in format, with some recurring segments, including "Yes, Yes, No" which debuted in episode 10, in which Vogt and Goldman explain internet trivia to Alex Blumberg, co-founder of Gimlet Media, with occasional help from outside guests.
These included a standard 64 kbit/s MP3, a low-bandwidth 16 kbit/s MP3, Advanced Audio Coding (AAC), and open source Ogg Vorbis.
The podcast covers their attempts to obtain funding for their company, ideas for new projects, and discussions by both co-founders about the financial risk they were taking, and the effect of running the startup on their personal lives.
Aggregation theory Thompson is a proponent of aggregation theory, which describes how platforms (i.e.
(The MicroTimes column ran under the banner Dvorak's Last Column.) He has written for The New York Times, Los Angeles Times, MacMania Networks, International Herald Tribune, The San Francisco Examiner and The Philadelphia Inquirer, among numerous other publications.
Friedberg joined Monsanto's Executive Team after the acquisition and in 2016 shifted to an advisory role.
Each episode of the TED Radio Hour is one hour long, and explores a theme — such as happiness, crowd-sourcing innovation or power shifts — through three to four related TED Talks.
She later co-hosted the Buzz Out Loud podcast, "The Buzz Report", a web-based news show, and Always On, a talk show.
The book was published in November 2020 and covers a wide range of topics including history, psychology, pop culture, and science.
The pair met at Wolverhampton Linux User Group and it was agreed that Stuart Langridge and Stephen Parkes would complete the line-up.
The podcast won the 2015 Academy of Podcasters Awards in the category "Technology." In 2017, it was announced that director Richard Linklater would direct a movie about American quack physician John R.
The podcast focuses on consumer electronics news, industry trends, and discussions related to videos published on Brownlee's YouTube channel.
It is produced in English and hosted by Chris Marquardt, a photographer, sound professional, musician and media producer.
The series aired on G4 Canada, on the HOW TO Channel in Australia, on several of Canada's Citytv affiliates, and on Google Video.
On November 22, 2021, the show did a special episode discussing the importance of the COVID-19 vaccine.
Reception Waveform has ranked among the top technology podcasts on platforms such as Apple Podcasts.
In several episodes, Laporte has noted that the distributed nature of BitTorrent makes it impossible to accurately gauge the popularity of the show, decreasing the likelihood of attracting advertisers.
Personal life Moira Gunn was born in Staten Island, New York, and moved with her family to California at the age of 10, settling in Menlo Park, just as Silicon Valley was becoming prominent, and Sand Hill Road was open space - now the haunt of world-renowned venture capitalists.
Career Thompson's career includes stints at Apple, where he interned at Apple University; Microsoft, where he worked on its Windows Apps team; and at WordPress developer Automattic as a growth engineer.
As such, Jesse Brown announced on May 1, 2009 that his podcast would be hosted and supported by the Government of Ontario's public broadcasting network, TVOntario.
The book was discussed at the 2021 Los Angeles Times Festival of Books as well as the 2021 San Antonio Book Festival.
Ezarik was cited as being one of the website's most popular lifecasters in the October 2007 issues of both The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal.
In early 1999 Searls joined Christopher Locke, David Weinberger and Rick Levine in writing The Cluetrain Manifesto, an iconoclastic website that was followed in January 2000 by the book with the same title.
After Laporte renewed his Premiere deal that month, these conditions were relaxed, and the show was allowed to be posted hours after first broadcast to TWiT, and caller audio could be heard on the live video and TWiT.am audio feeds.
Microsoft's Stephen Toulouse responded in a Microsoft Security Response Center blog post the next day, saying the behavior was not intentional.
Regular features included News and Releases, a look at recent development in free culture and at new releases of Linux distributions and notable pieces of free software.
Episode 32 ("The Carder") uncovered information about the criminal actions and subsequent investigation of Roman Seleznev.
Linux Voice was a Linux and open source magazine (print and digital) which began publication in the UK in April 2014.
Let's hope so." In 2005, Dvorak wrote "Creative Commons Humbug", an opinion piece criticizing Creative Commons licensing.
Taylor was featured in a November 2020 episode of the Popular Science podcast The Weirdest Thing I Learned This Week, discussing the use of animals noises in sound design.
The same article estimated that she has been viewed on YouTube a total of 64 million times and that her spoof on The Black Eyed Peas' "I Gotta Feeling" drew 4.8 million viewers.
Episodes The first season of the show began with a short listing of the podcast's current sponsors, followed by a humorous fake advertisement (i.e.
In November 2023 Friedberg became the company's full-time chief executive after helping found the venture.
In 2018, Zomorodi quit WNYC to start a media company, Stable Genius Productions, with her colleague Jen Poyant.
On May 30, 2018, US Magistrate Judge Jaqueline Scott Corley granted Twitters' motion to dismiss the case.
Producers of Reply All included Phia Bennin, Tim Howard, Damiano Marchetti, Anna Foley, Jessica Yung, Lisa Wang, and formerly Sruthi Pinnamaneni.
However, PA Serafina was quoted on the forums for saying, "There's details and red tape we still need to figure out.
Awards TWiT has won two Podcast Awards, as both the "People's Choice" and as "Best Technology Podcast".
On March 18, 2015, prior to the filming of This Week in Google, Leo Laporte stated that TWiT expects to make $7 million in revenue in fiscal year 2015, and made "almost" $10 million in revenue in 2016.
Linux Outlaws was segment-based, and focused the show on discussion of various topics throughout the show.
References External links Official ABC page Marc Fennell's Download This Show page Rae Johnston’s official website
In 2018, due to the success of the program, Guy Raz launched the "How I Built This Summit" at the Yerba Buena Center for the Arts in San Francisco, California.
In 2014, she appeared on CNN to discuss the Ebola outbreak and the role of social media in sharing information related to the epidemic.
Distribution was handed over to Sony Music in April 2021, but the deal with Sony was very short lived.
History Titans of Nuclear was conceived by Bret Kugelmass, founder of the Energy Impact Center in Washington, D.C., in 2017.
Martin Wimpress Martin has been a Linux user since 1995 and first used the Warty Warthog release of Ubuntu.
TWiT tried to informally resolve the trademark issue, and in January 2018 filed a trademark infringement lawsuit against Twitter.
As Stefano Forenza says on his website "you know you're someone when you get cited twice in a single episode of LinuxOutlaws".
He later recounted driving past the Bike Hut in San Francisco and watching sales slump on rainy days, which convinced him that weather created a major risk for small businesses.
History In September 2013, technology journalists Walt Mossberg and Kara Swisher left All Things Digital, the technology news site they had founded and developed for Dow Jones and News Corp.
Occasionally, other bitrates are used for episodes produced in stereo, however most episodes are monaural.
The show often played phone messages left by Spark listeners and featured comments left on the Spark Blog.
It was a Linux, Free Software and Open Source event intended to be fun, without the corporate agenda held by other commercial events.
Several regular guests would appear during the show via Zoom: AVSForum editor Scott Wilkinson, Dick DeBartolo of Mad Magazine, and Johnny Jet appeared on Saturdays while Chris Marquardt of Tips from the Top Floor has a Sunday segment.
Podcasts When RadioTux started, podcasts were not yet known, so it can be considered being one of the first podcasts which came up and which is still existing.
In early 2021, the podcast began releasing a series of episodes called "The Test Kitchen", which covered allegations of a racist and toxic work environment at the food magazine Bon Appétit.
Since episode 215 in October 2009, the show has been available weekly as both an audio and video download as well as on YouTube.
She was nominated at the 4th Streamy Awards in 2014 for Best Collaboration with Rooster Teeth, Freddie Wong, Greg Miller, and Adam Kovic.
She co-hosts the technology-focused show Rocket on the Relay FM podcast network alongside Brianna Wu and Simone de Rochefort.
With the closing of the TWiT "eastside" studios in Petaluma, California, United States, it is now produced virtually.
Searls has also been a blogger since October 1999, when he started blogging with help from his friend Dave Winer.
Media contact information is available on the Tech Nation website Academically, Bioentrepreneurship courses are throughout the university as they require the successful collaboration of multi-disciplinary expertise.
Andrew Manganelli, a long-time collaborator and producer for the MKBHD channel, serves as co-host, while David Imel later joined as a regular co-host.
Curry usually has more outlandish opinions of the week's news or world events, while Dvorak plays the straight man in the dialogue.
He also hosted the show "Tech5", where he discussed the day's tech news in approximately five minutes; it ended production in late 2010.
TPB partners with scientists, business leaders, and entrepreneurs to address challenges such as climate change.
It was first held in 2005 with 250 attendees, 14 speakers — including Mark Shuttleworth, who arrived by helicopter — and 18 exhibitors including Ubuntu, Debian, KDE and O'Reilly.
Nora Young often encouraged listeners to become "Spark Contributors" by participating in the active conversations on the Spark Blog, notifying the Spark Team of interesting ideas to investigate, or even recording interviews and letting Spark use them on the show.
Kugelmass would later begin sharing hosting duties with Jadwiga Najder, Olubunmi Olajide, and Naomi Senehi.
The purpose of VRM is to equip individuals with tools that provide both independence from vendor "lock-in" and better means for engaging with vendors.
Many current interviews are recorded directly from industry and community events such as the KubeCon series, the Chemnitzer Linux-Tage, and the Free and Open Source Software Conference (FrOSCon), reflecting the project's ongoing focus on contemporary open-source and cloud-native technologies.
On November 19, 2022, actor, writer, musician, and comedian Steve Martin called into Laporte's radio show to announce Leo's retirement from The Tech Guy radio show.
He also produces the Free as in Freedom podcast Format Each episode generally had a global download count of over 20000 and was often presented with both a serious attitude and a humorous bent.
In 2022, How I Built This signed a licensing deal with Wondery, with subsequent radio distribution remaining with NPR.
Other segments included Tip of the Week and Beer of the Week, where Fabian recommended a brand of beer.
While Searls's permanent home is in Santa Barbara, he and his family currently live most of the year near his work at Harvard.
Patel has appeared on a number of news channels, including MS NOW (formerly MSNBC), Fox News, CNN, CNN International, NPR, Sky News, NHK, G4TV, and TWiT.
In the early years, the site included a humorous treatise on Lawrence Welk, free icons and backgrounds for visitors to use, and a web design tutorial titled "Ask Dr.
References Notes External links Video on YouTube Fab, Linux Outlaws Podcaster – interview on the site of Fedora.
On May 7, 2021, the podcast expanded to include a full video format with the launch of the Waveform YouTube channel, making each episode available in both audio and video formats.
Personal life Born in Lawrenceville, Georgia on November 12, 1982, Christina Warren currently resides in Seattle, Washington with her husband, Grant.
TV and online media Dvorak was on the start-up team for CNET Networks, appearing on the television show CNET Central.
Guests generally include nuclear energy experts who come from various political, scientific, and business backgrounds.
On May 27, 2015 New Tech City changed its name to Note to Self, in response to listener suggestions.
The show promises to develop into a worthy rival of Reply All and This American Life." In April 2020, The Irish Times included Endless Thread on its list of "50 of the Best Podcasts to Listen to Right Now".
History Zomorodi has worked as a journalist for 20 years, and before joining WNYC, she reported for Reuters and the British Broadcasting Corporation.
It grew out of host Dallas Taylor's admiration for the podcast 99% Invisible and a desire to hear more stories like the ones they produced about audio design.
Jono Bacon and Stuart Langridge are the only two presenters who were with the show throughout, with Jono Bacon being the only presenter to appear on every show.
The site also reviews new enterprises, and consumer hardware and software, and conducts original reports.
In November 2014, during an interview with American Public Media's Marketplace Leo Laporte stated that TWiT makes $6 million in ad revenue a year from 5 million TWiT podcasts downloaded each month, mostly in the form of audio, and that 3,000 to 4,000 people watch its live-streamed shows.
In May 2020, host Dallas Taylor delivered a TED Talk, "What silence can teach you about sound." The talk discussed John Cage's composition 4'33", a topic which had previously been explored in an episode of Twenty Thousand Hertz.
It is primarily broadcast on YouTube, X, and Substack, with full episodes available on Apple Podcasts and Spotify.
Podcast In addition to the magazine, the team produced a fortnightly podcast covering Linux and wider free software issues.
Format Each episode of RadioLab is one hour long and tackles various philosophical and scientific topics.
She was the host of the WNYC podcast Note to Self, which explores humans' relationship with technology through conversations with listeners and experts.
consists of a discussion between Gibson and Laporte on issues of computer security and, conversely, insecurity.
In November 2019, Manoush Zomorodi, previously host of the WNYC podcast Note to Self, was named the show’s new host.
The site developed a reputation for breaking tech industry news but ultimately did not reach the level of popularity it expected, with just 1.5 million regular monthly visitors.
During the show some advertisements for 3rd party commercial products or services are read out, by co-host Leo Laporte.
In 2018, he became the host of the technology and science podcast Crazy/Genius, which was nominated for an iHeartMedia Best Podcast Award in its first year.
Before she began hosting Note to Self, Zomorodi was a television reporter for the British Broadcasting Corporation.
In May 2013, one month after the sale of Instapaper, Arment announced he was selling The Magazine to Glenn Fleishman, its editor.
Dvorak (; born 1952) is an American writer and broadcaster in the areas of technology and personal computing.
Video TWiT began as an audio podcast, although several video episodes were filmed in the first few years of the show.
The first The Tech Guy show produced at the TWiT Brick House was on July 30, which also was the first broadcast from Leo's office set, which was built to resemble the former Cottage studio.
The profits were split between 'software' and 'projects and distros' with the top 3 winners in each category receiving a part of the total funds.
Guests have included Daymond John, Elizabeth Gore, Nolan Bushnell, Damian Kulash, Alexis Ohanian, Rob Dyrdek, Cindy Gallop.
It leverages the simple fact that buyers are the first source of money, and that they come ready-made.
In October 2008, she became the host of an online, twice weekly music and lifestyle program produced by PluggedIn.com called The PluggedIn 5.
Eliana Dockterman, writing for Time in April 2018, said, "[The hosts] add new depth to these Internet-famous fables with interviews, narrative arcs and, crucially, their fact-checking abilities.
ABC News said of the show that "Curious kids will be captivated, and you'll find it hard not to love it too." Awards Adaptation The podcast was adapted into a book series.
In 2015 the winners in the software category were Scribus which was awarded £1000, GIMP was awarded £300 and Inkscape was awarded £200.
He has written for various publications, including InfoWorld, PC Magazine (two separate columns since 1986), MarketWatch, BUG Magazine (Croatia), and Info Exame (Brazil).
In October 2020, host Dallas Taylor was featured in "Sound and Silence," an episode of the TED Radio Hour, drawn from his TED Talk.
At 16 he enrolled at Clarkson University in Potsdam, New York, worked in a pool hall, and learned to play poker.
In 2019, the podcast featured interviews with national politicians, including House Representative for Massachusetts Seth Moulton and Idaho Senator Mike Crapo.
The show was launched in 2004 as a result of discussions between several members of the Wolverhampton Linux User Group.
Awards and nominations Adweek's 12 Most Successful Media Agency Executives in Southern California References External links Innovation Crush podcast Chris Denson at IMDb
Based on the increase in the number of sponsored programs as well as the increase in sponsors, the 2013 gross revenue is estimated to be in the eight million dollar range.
Denson also serves as an advisory board member on the SXSW Accelerator, Google Launchpad, and the White House's Global Entrepreneurship Summit.
The second revised edition of Designing With Web Standards, issued in 2007, which famously showed Zeldman with a blue knit hat on its book cover, inspired Douglas Vos to invent the Blue Beanie Day, an annual international celebration of web standards which began in 2007.
Starting around episode 10, Norton began physically coming to Leo's Petaluma office during the taping.
Each episode typically features three or four commercial breaks, usually in the form of a "live read" from Laporte that may include interaction with the panelists (e.g., Laporte usually prompts guests for recommended audiobooks during spots for frequent advertiser Audible.com).
Presenters Fabian Scherschel Fabian Scherschel is a journalist at Heise Verlag in Hannover, Germany.
The book argues that shortages of key pillars of "the good life" — housing, energy, healthcare, and innovation — are the result of artificial, policy-driven scarcities in liberal policy-making.
Liv Agar has covered conspiracy theories focused on Canada, as well as topics relating to modern-day adolescent internet culture.
How I Built This is an American podcast about "innovators, entrepreneurs, idealists, and the stories behind the movements they built" produced by NPR.
Print publications Zeldman has authored two books, Taking your Talent to the Web, which was published in 2001, and Designing with Web Standards, which first came out in 2003, and appeared in two revised editions, one in 2007, and one in 2009.
Background Marques Brownlee, creator of the technology-focused MKBHD YouTube channel, launched Waveform in 2019 to provide additional commentary beyond his video content, including behind-the-scenes insights and more informal discussion.
Gunn was also awarded an honorary doctorate in science by Purdue University|url=https://www.cs.purdue.edu/news/articles/2009/gunn-phd.html%7Cwebsite=Purdue University|publisher=Purdue University|accessdate=24 March 2022|date=18 May 2009| == References ==
Get Played (formerly How Did This Get Played?) is an audio podcast that follows Heather Anne Campbell, Nick Wiger and Matt Apodaca as they discuss and review video games, with early episodes focusing on weird or bad games.
Media coverage and awards LugRadio received coverage in Linux Format magazine, Linux User and Developer magazine and Linux Magazine as well as online coverage by sites such as Slashdot.
The two of them started a media company called "Stable Genius Productions", a reference to a tweet by President Donald Trump.
In 2021, Vogt and another producer left the show following backlash critical of the work environment.
He is the founder and host of the Voices of VR podcast, and a keynote speaker, panelist, and moderator at international industry conferences including Games for Change, Silicon Valley Virtual Reality (SVVR), SXSW, and VR NOW.
Presenters While the show had various presenters over the years, the line-up for the final 5 seasons was Alan Pope, Mark Johnson and Martin Wimpress.
The process involved recordings made by each presenter on his own machine, as well as a backup analogue recording by Fabian.
Chris Denson (born January 6, 1976) is an American innovation expert, marketer, and humor enthusiast.
Arment expressed his regret in a follow-up post the next day: "You might think this is a dream come true for a blogger, but it's horrible.
The first, "A World Without Work", is a widely referenced essay on the meaning of work and automation's threat to the labor force.
He also founded the design studios Happy Cog and studio.zeldman, and co-founded the A Book Apart imprint and the design conference An Event Apart.
In 1998, Laporte created and co-hosted The Screen Savers, and the original version of Call for Help on the cable and satellite network ZDTV (later TechTV).
Personal life She is married to television reporter Josh Robin, with whom she has two children and lives in New York City.
In 2010, Zeldman expanded his publishing work beyond web magazines with the creation of the A Book Apart imprint.
After attending the Potomac School, Thompson graduated from Northwestern University in 2008 with a triple major in journalism, political science, and legal studies.
When the series premiered in April 2012, it was carried by 76 of NPR's member stations, including WHYY Philadelphia, KUOW Seattle and KOPB Portland.
China Since its inception, Search Engine has broadcast stories pertaining to government control of the Internet in China, commented on the citizen journalism efforts in that nation, and criticized the Chinese government for the ways in which its policies restrict access to many Internet venues.
Overview Searls' journalism career began in 1971, when he worked as an editor and photographer for Wayne Today in New Jersey.
History The magazine started as a result of a successful Indiegogo crowdfunding campaign in late 2013, which raised over £120,000.
TWiT.tv is a podcast network that broadcasts technology-focused podcasts, founded by broadcaster and author Leo Laporte in 2005, and run by his wife and company CEO Lisa Laporte.
Article 5 of the Constitution of the Republic enshrines freedom of worship, thereby making any discrimination based on religion punishable by law, and obligating the government to ensure the protection of this freedom.
Formal limitations Belgium has prohibited the wearing of niqab and other face-covering garments in public, officially due to the state’s claim of the importance of “living together”.
Restrictions on religious freedom Government policy and practice contributed to the generally free practice of religion.
During a hearing on 12 August 2004, in the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal, Watts said that after the press release, she suffered vandalism to her property and an assault at her home, in addition to general "hatred, contempt and revulsion".
See also Act of Uniformity 1549 Religious persecution Christian debate on persecution and toleration Theocracy == References ==
In 305, Diocletian abdicated and was replaced by Galerius, his successor, who continued persecution in the East until 311, when he granted Christians forgiveness, freedom of worship and (implicitly) the status of religio licita.
See also References Bibliography Benn, Tony; Hood, Andrew (1993), Winstone, Ruth (ed.), Common Sense, Hutchinson, ISBN 0-09-177308-3 Goodwin, Stephen (12 December 1992).
She also complained of breach of her right to a family life under Art.8, because she was bound to work some Sundays, and her husband did not.
14307/88) is a landmark case of the European Court of Human Rights, decided in 1993 and concerning compatibility of certain sanctions for proselytism with Articles 7 and 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
Opposition Bishop Rudigier of Linz became known for his memorable struggle against the laws, which were hostile to the Church and against to the marriage and school laws.
European Court of Human Rights Lautsi then appealed to the European Court of Human Rights on 27 July 2006.
The Bill was passed during the premiership of The Duke of Wellington six years later for the Catholics of Ireland and Britain — without a veto.
The law ensured that citizens could use their tax dollars to support the church of their choice, not just the one officially sponsored by their community.
The Interconfessional laws were a series of 19th-century laws in Austria that were meant to install a government based on separation of church and state and passed on 25 May 1868.
All religious groups must obtain permits from the national Ministry of Guidance and Social Endowments, the state Ministry of Construction and Planning, and the local planning office before constructing new houses of worship.
Attitude towards Jews and Judaism Rhetoric by Palestinian militant groups include expressions of anti-Semitism.
Juridical personality allows a religious group to apply for all tax benefits available to nonprofit organizations.
The Shouwang Church (守望教会) is a Protestant house church in Beijing, China, and almost the biggest of about 3,000 of such congregations in the city.
The agreement between representatives of both sides, reached after meeting from 13 March to 20 March, declared the agreement from the Basel Council the basic law of the land.
In Sarajevo, Tuzla, Travnik, Zepce, Banja Luka, Bihac, and Zenica, students may attend Catholic school centers.
Other politicians in the Lok Sabha at New Delhi, and the Minister of State for Law condemned the Petition.
Every individual has the right to freely profess his/her religion and to disseminate it individually or collectively.
In September 2022, a 26-year-old man was arrested and charged under Uttar Pradesh's anti-conversion law.
The First Amendment to the United States Constitution was one of the first legal protections for freedom of religion without reference to any specific religion.
The Uttar Pradesh district court convicted him, sentenced him to five years of imprisonment and gave him a ₹40,000 fine.
Followers of other faiths shall be free within the bounds of law in the exercise and performance of their religious rights.
In 2007, the United States Department of State released a study of the state of religious freedom in the Palestinian territories as part of its annual international study.
Office of Public Policy The Office of Public Policy (OPP) is the Washington, D.C., political arm of the Center for Inquiry.
The Government imposed no formal restrictions on religious groups, and all religious communities were free to conduct public services and to open and operate social and charitable institutions.
Following months of debate a last-minute concession was offered—the Muslim and Jewish communities would have a year to provide evidence that animals slaughtered by traditional methods do not experience greater pain than those that are stunned before they are killed.
Members of minority religious groups are concentrated in the largest cities, including Asunción, Ciudad del Este, and Encarnación.
Swastikas and other Nazi symbols were painted on monuments, and many tombstones were damaged beyond repair.
For instance, the Taiwan Council for Religion and Peace, the China Religious Believers Association, and the Taiwan Religious Association are private organizations that promote greater understanding and tolerance among adherents of different religions.
During the wait, the following is forbidden: public worship services, distribution of literature and materials, the hiring of foreign clergy.
Religious freedom The Constitution of Uruguay provides for the freedom of religion and states that "the State supports no religion".
Recognized religious communities also continued to receive in-kind assistance, such as property on which to build houses of worship, from other government ministries and from local governments.
After the decentralization of the post-Carolingian period, this became the slogan of the Catholic Church in light of disapproval over lay warlords installing themselves as abbots and other high-profile churchmen.
In the 1850s, moves to increased religious toleration included the Liberty of Religious Worship Act 1855 and the Jews Relief Act 1858.
They requested permission from the Captains Regent to take the oath required by the Elections Act without reference to any religious text.
The National Assembly, the Council of States, and the Cabinet feature both Muslims and Christians in prominent roles.
In February 2007 the SPC filed a lawsuit in the Supreme Court over excessively lengthy legal procedures, largely because its earlier lawsuit against the alleged wrongful privatization of the cinema property had been pending before the Administrative Court for 3 years.
Additionally, similar practices (such as having citizens identify their religious preference to the government or on identification cards) can have different consequences depending on other sociopolitical circumstances specific to the countries in question.
Article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights provides a right to freedom of thought, conscience, and religion.
Status of religious freedom Legal and policy framework Freedom of religion is significantly restricted.
Roman Catholic and non-denominational Christian churches have been established in Nouakchott, Atar, Zouerate, Nouadhibou, and Rosso.
Various other reforms were proposed along liberal lines, such as a single age of consent, abolition of blasphemy laws, and equal rights in law for homosexuals.
The Jewish community responded to these objections by assuring the public that the method was in fact humane.
A collection of the public general statutes passed in the 22nd year of the reign of Her Majesty Queen Victoria.
The registration issue has political as well as religious overtones, since it raises the question of whether the Orthodox Church should be oriented toward the Moscow Patriarchate or the Bucharest Patriarchate.
This agreement finished a long series of religious conflicts in the Czech lands and constituted a definitive end to the Hussite Wars.
Constitutional scholar George Williams, writing in 1994, criticised the court's literal interpretation of the provision and others in the Constitution, saying the court has "transformed the Constitution into a wasteland of civil liberties".
During the ongoing conflict over the anticlerical articles of the 1917 constitution, they systematically destroyed church buildings.
To register, religious associations must submit to the government their members’ personal data (e.g., names, addresses, personal identification numbers, and signatures), which the law says may not be shared with other public institutions or used in any other way.
Some Muslim religious leaders preach sermons on the official PA television station that included expressions of anti-Semitism.
The Hungarian government has been criticized for passing legislation based on religious ideas and outsourcing government duties and public services to churches.
Hinduism Hinduism is a minority faith in Bosnia-Herzegovina, represented mainly by the ISKCON movement.
The Chinese Communist crackdown on Christianity had paused in 2020 due to the 2019-2020 coronavirus pandemic.
The group, created to carry out the governor's orders, takes its name from its uniform of red shirts, black pants, and black and red military caps.
In 2007, the 'Religious Affairs Bureau' of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in South Korea took the lead in organizing groups such as the Korean Religious Council and the Council for Peaceful Religions to promote interfaith dialogue and understanding.
The move threatens the site’s egalitarian prayer section and could strain the relationship with the Reform Judaism, the largest branch of Judaism in the United States.
It describes itself as "protecting the equal rights of nonreligious Americans." The Secular Coalition has chapters in all 50 states and Puerto Rico, composed of lobbyists trained by the organization.
Common Sense, subtitled A New Constitution for Britain is a book written by the British Labour politician Tony Benn and Andrew Hood.
Eight states continue to have a religious test in their constitutions, but the clause is inoperable and unenforceable because of the 1961 Supreme Court decision.
Despite tensions between religious groups during the Bosnian War, Montenegro remained fairly stable, mainly due its population having a historic perspective on religious tolerance and faith diversity.
Religious demography Cape Verde is an archipelago consisting of 10 islands, 9 of which are inhabited.
The government requires Greek Orthodox religious instruction in public schools; non-Greek Orthodox pupils may be excused.
Christians are the third largest religious group, traditionally concentrated in the south and the Nuba Mountains.
Transnistrian authorities believe the attacks were propagated by the same people and claim they are investigating the incidents.
The case The case stemmed from a request of Soile Lautsi, a Finnish-born Italian national, against the School Council of a school in Abano Terme (province of Padua).
The nuns stated they possessed all necessary documents, including parental consent forms and identification for the women.
In September 2007 police arrested Jehovah's Witnesses José Ortega and Asunción Bernarda Ortega Gaona for refusing to allow doctors to give their daughter blood transfusions.
After the fall of Communism, Gorbachev had given much-needed breathing room to the practice of religion in Russia, whose culture's heart is Eastern Orthodoxy, but had also opened the door indiscriminately and generally to the practice of religion.
Concerning Article 6 (access to court), the Commission reaffirmed that the right of an individual to protect his reputation can be regarded as a civil right protected by Article 6, but did not extend this protection to a group, when the national legislation didn't foresee that.
Garrido also invited the First Congress of Socialist Students to meet in the state of Tabasco and created a form of socialist education which he termed "Rationalist".
If the parents are not married when the child is born, the baby is registered with the same affiliation as the parent who has custody of the child.
Forced religious conversion There were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S.
The Faculty of Theology spoke out against it, and Parliament's Church Committee therefore did not promote the proposal before Parliament.
The Coalition's member organizations, as of 2023, are: American Atheists American Ethical Union American Humanist Association Atheist Alliance of America Association of Secular Elected Officials Black Nonbelievers, Inc.
Former prisoners have reported that Falun Gong practitioners consistently received "the longest sentences and worst treatment" in labor camps, and in some facilities Falun Gong practitioners formed the substantial majority of detainees.
In May 2007 the Supreme Court ruled that the government's expropriation in 2005 of approximately 319,000 acres (1,290 km2) of land in Puerto Casado owned by Reverend Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church was unconstitutional.
Unconfirmed reports suggest that the Tajikistan government has attempted to restrict the influence of two popular Islamic scholars by stopping Muslims from outside the scholar's districts from coming to their mosques to worship, barring them from becoming members of the IRPT .
Pro studied in Mexico until 1914 when a massive wave of governmental anti-Catholicism forced the novitiate to dissolve and the Jesuits to flee to Los Gatos, California, in the United States.
As part of their public relations work, State agencies characterised these associations as a "sect", "youth sect", "youth religion" and "psycho-sect".
In March 1874 the Trier bishop Matthias Eberhard was put under arrest and died shortly after he was released from nine months of custody in 1876.
Federal Governments have twice proposed the amendment of Section 116, principally to apply its provisions to laws made by the states.
Religious peace and tolerance helped for development of the land, but it contributed to the future conflicts of interests between middle-class and nobility.
See also Religion in Croatia Human rights in Croatia Holy See-Yugoslavia relations References United States Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor.
Gladstone's decision came against strained relations with France and manoeuvring by "men on the spot" in Egypt.
After interrogating the two magistrates and after the two of them and Hart had submitted apologies for their actions, the governor and councilors settled on the schout as mainly responsible.
One cause of this was that Spanish colonial missions sent priests to convert indigenous people, who had always been a very small population in Uruguay.
The Sunzhuang Church was a church which was destroyed on June 12, 2020, when more than 200 Chinese Communist Party officials from different departments including the Zhengzhou High-Tech District's Ethnic and Religious Affairs Bureau brought cranes and heavy-duty machinery to the area.
Aaron Rhodes then acknowledged that the Moscow office of the IHFHR had received funding from the Church of Scientology to print a leaflet about religious freedom in Russia, and voiced his astonishment at the charge.
A compulsory curriculum requires the study of Christianity for Christian students and Islam for Muslim students in grades one through six.
Baptist view The basic concept of individual soul liberty, is that in matters of religion, each person has the liberty to choose what conscience or soul dictates is right, and is responsible to no one but God for the decision that is made.
It ruled by a vote of six-to-three that a Jehovah's Witness man's freedom to manifest his religion, protected by Article 9, had been violated by the Greek government.
Switzerland (permitted to require children to participate in mixed swimming lessons and enforce this through fines) Executief van de Moslims van België and Others v.
Satheesan called it a "police witch-hunt" and a "mob trial," accusing the Sangh Parivar of hypocrisy.
Finally when our law had been promulgated to the effect that they should conform to the institutes of antiquity, many were subdued by the fear of danger, many even suffered death.
According to the organization, keeping such religious symbols violates the separation of church and state as established by the Constitution of Brazil.
Persecution and tolerance are both the result of alterity, the state of otherness, and the question of how to properly deal with those who are 'outside' the defined identity.
The Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Associations (Russian: «Закон О свободе совести и о религиозных объединениях»), also known as the 1997 Law (Russian: «Закон 1997 года») is a Russian law passed and signed by President Boris Yeltsin on September 26, 1997.
The Serbian Orthodox Church accused the new legislation of being discriminatory, specifically raising concerns that it would allow the government to confiscate church property.
In 2023, the country was scored zero out of 4 for religious freedom; it was also noted that non-Muslim foreigners are only permitted to observe their religions privately.
In 2003 the government approved a Shia request to establish a court of cassation to oversee Shia personal status issues.
The attack on absolutism, the defence of the rule of law and the emphasis on the importance of the covenant made Lex, Rex a precursor to the social contract idea, and helped pave the way for the political theory of John Locke.
In May 2022, the Committee on Religion, Regulation of Traditions, Celebrations, and Ceremonies (CRA) announced that they will no longer register any new Christian churches.
It has an area of 1,557 square miles (4,030 km2) and a population of 458,000, according to the National Statistics Institute.
Epega (president of the Non-Governmental Organization Respeito Brasil Yourubá), Baptist priest Djalma Rosa Torres, Vaishnava Hindu priest Jagannatha Dhama Dasa and Milton R.
Reports in the Greek Cypriot press about an earlier incident at the same school, which reported that an 11-year-old male Turkish Cypriot student verbally insulted a Greek Cypriot student wearing a Christian cross, were blamed for inciting the latter event.
Orthodox Jewish law strictly prohibits women reading from the Torah, and to a lesser degree women wearing tallit and kippahs.
By an Act of Parliament – The Church of Scotland Act 1921 – the Articles Declaratory were held to be lawful, thus recognising the Church of Scotland as the national church in Scotland but independent from the state in matters spiritual.
Since God in his power is infinitely superior to any [secular] authority, the right of God is also infinitely superior to the right of any authority.
In March 2015, a 27-year-old Afghan woman was murdered by a mob in Kabul over false allegations of burning a copy of the Qur'an.
Sources often attribute the signing of the Tokyo peace treaty to this phenomenon, as it reduced the sense of national emergency that had previously fueled the militant patriotic activism.
Repeal of the Conventicle Act By 1818 there was a proposal to give the Quakers limited rights to organize.
For example, on October 13, 2006, authorities fined Polish citizen and Catholic priest Antoni Koczko $29 (62,000 rubles) for conducting an "unauthorized" religious service in Minsk, since he had been assigned to a church in Slutsk.
The bishops, and many of the clergy, were fined or imprisoned — notably, two archbishops, Ledóchowski of Gnesen-Posen and Melchers of Cologne; four bishops, Brinkman of Munster, Blum of Limburg, Forster of Breslau, Martin of Paderborn; one auxiliary bishop, Janiszewski of Posen.
However at the same time the 62nd article states that the Evangelical Lutheran Church shall be the national church (þjóðkirkja) and the national curriculum places emphasis on Christian studies.
Groups who do not register with the government are not allowed to set up bank accounts and may face being banned; group founders and board members can face up to one year in prison and a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 CFA francs.
The first three limbs prohibit the Commonwealth from making certain laws: laws "for establishing any religion"; laws "for imposing any religious observance"; and laws "for prohibiting the free exercise of any religion".
Overview of bill Under the provisions of the bill: The monarchy would be abolished and the constitutional status of the Crown ended.
Chakraborty wrote to the Secretary, Department of Home Government of West Bengal, demanding the ban of the Quran.
Shia worshipers gathered peacefully in public spaces to attend sermons and eulogies during Ashura and the government provided security to Shia neighborhoods.
The law redefined the state's relationship with religion, as the USSR president Mikhail Gorbachev had defined in on the Law of the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic on Freedom of Worship passed on October 25, 1990, commonly known as the 1990 Law.
Although they singled out Feake for punishment, the ordinance they passed subsequent to the release from imprisonment and pardoning of the Hart and the magistrates maintains that all four of the town's officials were jointly at fault.
The French understand "freedom of religion" primarily as the freedom of the individual to believe or not to believe what any religion teaches.
The incident also drew commentary from national organizations focused on civil liberties and religious freedom, which argued that the assembly raised constitutional concerns.
Venugopal and other United Democratic Front (UDF) MPs from Kerala staged protests outside Parliament, demanding immediate release of the nuns and accountability for the injustice.
While non-Muslim expatriates are generally permitted to worship privately, public religious pluralism, proselytization, and activities perceived as contradicting Islamic principles are prohibited or tightly controlled.
In the same year, the country was rank as the 22nd most difficult place in the world to be a Christian.
Title V: Regulation of religious associations Article 25 declared all worship services open to the people.
20th century In 1965, the Second Vatican Council issued the Dignitatis Humanae, which stated the church's support for protecting religious liberty.
The Warsaw Confederation of 1573 was a groundbreaking document that established religious tolerance in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth.
The Stefanus Prize is a human rights prize awarded to individuals for their outstanding contributions to defending freedom of religion or belief as defined by the Article 18 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
On April 28, 2025, the Supreme Court declined to entertain a fresh plea filed by petitioner Syed Alo Akbar challenging the Waqf (Amendment) Act, 2025.
The case was also significant, since the Commission recognised in its decision the right of a church to petition on behalf of its members, changing the previous practice.
Declining a blindfold, he faced his executioners with a crucifix in one hand and a rosary in the other and held his arms out in imitation of the crucified Christ and shouted out, "May God have mercy on you!
Mongolia: The Emblem of Mongolia has multiple Tibetan Buddhist symbols, including a Wheel of Dharma, a lotus, and the Three Jewels.
According to government sources, none of the criteria listed in related government documents on sects discuss theology; they only focus on the actions and the methods of the groups.
Request by the Church of Scientology to start proceedings against the publisher was rejected by the Supreme Court.
He also worked in the Klamath Basin on drug and alcohol recovery issues, where he was able to reconnect with his heritage and culture.
Most bishops and popes were trained lawyers rather than theologians, and much of the Christian thought of this period became little more than an extension of law.
The book claims that these Quran verses embody one of the main themes of the book: "Nor have these passages been culled at random from different chapters of the Quran with a view to making the book sound sinister.
Despite having historical roots as a Christian missions organization, Stefanus Alliance International in awarding the Stefanus Prize has recognized the efforts of individuals across different faiths.
Full text Promulgated in the name of the other official members of the Tetrarchy, the edict marked the end of persecutions against the Christians.
48pp Challenges to Shechita and its Protection by Government and Legislation in Late 20th Century Britain Neville Kesselman Kenneth Collins Abstract: A Community on Trial: The Aberdeen Shechita Case, 1893 Anti-Semitism without Hatred?
All associations must have a religious purpose, including: a creed, regular worship services, the conducting of religious education.
The opposition to the laws led to judicial proceedings against the bishop and to a fine, which was, however, at once remitted by the Emperor.
While the Taiwanese authorities do not collect or independently verify statistics on religious affiliation, they maintain registration statistics voluntarily reported by religious organizations.
According to the German weekly Die Zeit, Beijing police use around 4,500 officers to provide surveillance of Zhongguancun Square and of the homes of about 500 church members, to prevent the church from congregating.
The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the government has generally respected this right in practice.
Virtually all members of the Protestant Reformed and Unitarian Churches of Transylvania are ethnic Hungarians.
Whereas the 1858 petitions had related only to observances in the English Book of Common Prayer, the 1859 bill additionally deleted the 23 October prayer from the Irish Book of Common Prayer.
The Court unanimously held that there was a violation of Article 9 of the ECHR (freedom of conscience).
In 2020, 97.45% of the population were Muslim (Mainly Sunni), 1.67% had no religion and 0.69% were Christian; the largest non-Muslim groups include Russian Orthodox, Baptists, Roman Catholics, Seventh-day Adventists, Jehovah's Witnesses, Lutherans, Baha'is, Zoroastrians and Jews.
See also Religion in Colombia Christianity in Colombia Islam in Colombia Hinduism in Colombia Baháʼí Faith in Colombia History of the Jews in Colombia External links International Religious Freedom Report 2004 on Colombia, U.S.
The cultural mandates supported by Phibunsongkhram's government promoted patriotic behavior, dress, and speech, and as such, Khana Lueat Thai's calls for vigilance against foreign influences were often tolerated by local officials, as they aligned with the widely accepted state nationalism.
Homosexuality Homosexual activity is legal in Burkina Faso, and the country has neither passed a law prohibiting such activity nor has ever criminalized it.
Religious uniformity occurs when government is used to promote one state religion, denomination, or philosophy to the exclusion of all other religious beliefs.
On April 19, 2007, officials in the Ministry of Education announced that the Ministry, in conjunction with the MOJIA, was developing a new religious education curriculum to be taught in all public schools, beginning the next academic year.
On birth certificates issued to Muslims, the government does not differentiate between Sunnis and Shia.
They were accompanied by Sukaman Mandavi, and three adult tribal women, all above 18 years of age, from Narayanpur district.
Undersecretary Mustafa Lakadamyalı claimed that the move was to prevent the "abuse" of the permission to hold masses, also citing difficulties with the policing of more than one mass a day or frequent masses.
Their oath was considered invalid, and the applicants took the oath on the Gospels, maintaining their protest.
Religious peace of Kutná Hora (Czech: Kutnohorský náboženský mír) was concluded in March 1485 by the Czech lands Diet in Kutná Hora between Utraquist Hussites and Roman Catholics.
However, in 2013 the Sunzhuang Village Committee issued a demolition notice, citing a failure to follow procedures for building the church.
As the meeting opened, one of the City Council members made a motion to stop the delivery of the invocation by an atheist.
The bill proposed establishing the United Kingdom as a secular state and thus disestablishing the Church of England, removing the British Crown as an element of government, but continuing government with democratically elected members from constituencies, each seat electing a male and a female.
The Constitution recognizes Catholicism as "the religion of the majority" of citizens but does not designate it as the official state religion.
Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829 The necessity of receiving the sacrament as a qualification for office was abolished under George IV, and all acts requiring the taking of oaths and declarations against transubstantiation etc.
See also Annexation of the Metropolis of Kyiv by the Moscow Patriarchate References External links Assembly debate on 17 April 2024 (11th sitting) (see Doc.
In 1945, in the Yan'an Soviet, the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) implemented a campaign to eliminate shamanic practices, especially those that it deemed unhygienic.
The Food Safety and Standards (Licensing and Registration of Food Businesses) Regulation, 2011 provides more precise stipulations surrounding the welfare of animals during the slaughter process, including that 'Animals are slaughtered by being first stunned and then exsanguinated (bled out).
The Jewish community, like most other small religious groups in Bosnia, including Protestants, has its strongest membership in Sarajevo.
On 14 December 2006, the defendants took their case to the Victorian Court of Appeal, which overturned the VCAT decision.
External links Articles Declaratory of the Constitution of the Church of Scotland at the official website of the Church of Scotland The full text of Articles Declaratory of the Constitution of the Church of Scotland at Wikisource
The Chinese government states that Uyghurs are being sent to vocational training centers in order to prevent the spread of extremism and to increase their employability.
In general, the subjects on the Karakax list all have relatives living abroad, a category that reportedly leads to "almost certain internment".
On December 27, 2022, the Constitutional Court recognized as constitutional the law "On Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations", which renamed of the UOC-MP.
The Utraquist and the Catholic faiths were declared equal in front of the law, and the religious peace (Landfried) was declared for the following 31 years.
Revival Contemporary discussions of integralism were renewed in 2014, focusing on criticism of liberalism and capitalism.
He then said that the change, to make him work Sundays breached his fundamental human right to freedom of religion, as a Christian.
The most notable example restriction was in Metz, whose Parlement's actions explicitly excluded certain rights for Jews within its domain, such as drafting of lists of grievances, unlike in the rest of France.
What resulted was the plunder of movable wealth (of which the monasteries had become the keepers during the period of Viking invasion) and the parcelling out of land and office as the temporal powers saw fit.
See also Dictatus papae (statements by Pope Gregory VII) Freedom of Religion References Papal primacy: from its origins to the present by Klaus Schatz.
Any funds inherited by the organization became the private property of the O'Hair family, never accounted for within the organization.
A person may then choose to be a Baptist, a member of another Christian denomination, an adherent to another world religion, or to choose no religious belief system, and the church, the government, family and friends may not make the decision or compel the person to choose otherwise.
21st century In the 21st century, some secular authorities around the world continue to exercise restrictions of religious expression, for example, Afghanistan and North Korea.
During the Supreme Court hearing on the Waqf (Amendment) Act, 2025, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the central government, assured the court that no waqf property would be denotified and no appointments would be made to the Central Waqf Council or State Waqf Boards until 5 May.
Confiscated land The defence of the rights of the Church with regard to the Christian schools had another negative result.
Under the law, parents of students under 18 years of age are required to request their children’s participation in religion classes, while students 18 and older may themselves ask to attend religion classes.
Parents have the right to decide their child's religion before age 15, but they must take into consideration the views of children once they reach the age of 7 and give their views priority once they reach the age of 12.
1363/1938 shows that the relevant criteria adopted by the Greek legislature are reconcilable with the foregoing if and in so far as they are designed only to punish improper proselytism, which the Court does not have to define in the abstract in the present case.
However, Islam is also established as the state religion of the country in article 3, and article 11 provides for legal restrictions on proselytizing to Muslims.
See also Religion in Belgium Human rights in Belgium References United States Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor.
The Theravada Buddhist tradition is widespread and strong in all provinces, with an estimated more 4,100 pagodas throughout the country.
In 1961, legislation gave Muslim Shari'a courts exclusive jurisdiction in matters of personal status.
'Party/Group of Thai Blood'; also known as Khana Luad/Lu'at Thai) Was an ultra-nationalist Thai movement active in the early 1940s.
However, kings generally tolerated Jewish merchants, investors, and bankers whose contributions benefited the economy of the Danish-Norwegian realm, while also seeking to restrict their movements, residence, and presence in public life.
Minority religious groups report that there is a good degree of tolerance in society for minority religious beliefs and traditions; there is no tolerance for conversion away from Islam.
According to the view, one's family relationships, church membership, or ecclesiastical or religious authorities cannot affect the salvation of one's soul from damnation.
In 2011, Zhang proposed "modern culture leads the development in Xinjiang" as his policy statement and started to implement his modern culture propaganda.
The French government, when challenged on issues of religious discrimination, states that it has no concern in any way with religious doctrine per se.
Sámi children were forced to attend missionary schools, where they were further indoctrinated in Christianity.
In the early era of French colonialism in Mali, the French authorities appointed Muslim relatives of El Hadj Umar Tall as chiefs of the Bandiagara—despite the fact that the area has been a Dogon area for centuries.
No one may make use of religion to engage in activities that disrupt public order, impair the health of citizens or interfere with the educational system of the state.
Although registration is not mandatory, 26 religious organizations have registered with the MOI's Religious Affairs Section.
Having earned this advantage these charities are further disadvantage in that their prospective donors are discouraged from donating monies to these charities because the donors are given tax relief for up to 5% of their aggregate income only.
With all my heart I forgive my enemies!" Before the firing squad was ordered to shoot, Pro raised his arms in imitation of Christ and shouted the defiant cry of the Cristeros, "¡Viva Cristo Rey!" – "Long live Christ the King!".
Government response to the Remonstrance The signers of the Remonstrance followed correct procedure in having the town schout, Tobias Feake, submit it to the provincial schout, Nicasius de Sille.
From 16 to 22 March 1951, a closed trial took place before the Military District Court at 82 Koszykowa Street in Warsaw.
The law angered many Catholics, who had recently begun to rally to the cause of the Republic, supported by Leo XIII's Inter innumeras sollicitudines 1892 encyclical (Au Milieu des sollicitudes) and the Cardinal Lavigerie's toast in 1890 favour of the Republic.
See also Religion in Burkina Faso Islam in Burkina Faso Christianity in Burkina Faso Roman Catholicism in Burkina Faso References United States Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor.
Formal status of religious freedom The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, provided that "Christian morality and public order" are respected, and other laws and policies contributed to the generally free practice of religion.
Title III: Buildings of worship Article 12 (amended in 1998) declared all buildings which the state had made available to religious organizations the property of the state, pursuant to the following articles.
The Conventicle Act remained in place for native Swedes until 1858, which completely restricted their freedom of worship outside of that of the Church of Sweden, whose status was regulated by law as a state church.
"Touched by the misfortunes of my fellow citizens and sensitive to the growth and strength of my native country, I have expressed my thoughts," he said.
states including New Jersey, Delaware and Virginia explicitly ban the usage of religious tests in their own constitutions.
Wherefore, for this our indulgence, they ought to pray to their God for our safety, for that of the republic, and for their own, that the republic may continue uninjured on every side, and that they may be able to live securely in their homes.
Muslims are not strictly bound by the law of India and are permitted to operate separately under a Sharia system for civil issues.
On March 5, the police raided their meeting place after Friday prayers, detaining several members and subsequently deporting three Syrian citizens for not having proper legal residence documents.
The authority may extend the deadline by an additional 120 days if the claimants prove they made a concerted effort to obtain the evidence, usually in the possession of other state authorities, but were unable to do so.
Legislative history The political and religious aspects of Anglican identity began to separate after Catholic emancipation culminated in the Roman Catholic Relief Act 1829.
According to Human Rights Watch, Christians who met in private homes, including those involved in underground churches and house churches, and did not register with the authorities, were repeatedly detained, fined, or harassed by the police.
Instead, each person is responsible to God for one's own personal faith in Jesus Christ and his death and resurrection.
Persecution of Rutherford during the Stuart Restoration and burning of the book After the Stuart Restoration, the authorities cited Rutherford for high treason, but his death intervened before the charge could be tried.
This work ended up playing a role in inspiring the American Revolution with its strong stance in favor of rebellion against unjust monarchs if they are tyrannical.
Quackwatch In February 2020, Quackwatch, founded by Stephen Barrett, became part of CFI, which announced it plans to maintain its various websites and to receive Barrett's library later in the year.
On July 3–5, 2006, Cyprus cohosted with Malaysia the second Asia-Europe Meeting Interfaith Dialogue, which sought to promote greater understanding between different religions and to help combat terrorism.
In 1935, after he ordered his Red Shirts to kill Catholic activists in Mexico City who were seeking to return to Tabasco, Garrido was forced to step down and into exile in Costa Rica.
Chakraborty thereafter met Chandmal Chopra, who also wrote to the Department of Home Government of West Bengal on March 16, 1985.
In addition, the Treaty of Lausanne explicitly guarantees the security and protection of both Greek and Armenian Orthodox Christian minorities and the Turkish-Jews.
All schools except international schools are required to provide four hours of Islam education every week.
Prior to 1974, the country experienced a long period of strife between its Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities.
When closed with all the others, it continued to hold casual meetings that accomplished little more than camaraderie among the members.
Background On February 2, 2022, a Christian revival assembly was held at Huntington High School during instructional hours.
A total of 26 people were arrested on charges of wiretapping and spying, including five police officers.
Overview in early 2000s The rest of this article is informed by the US State Dept 2007 report on Religious Freedom.
The initial version of the Austrittgesetz exempted Jews, who were not permitted to leave Judaism as a religion, even if they left the community of one's birth.
Freedom of expression Films Movies which depict people considered prophets in Islam are generally censored or banned as the depiction of prophets is considered "haraam" (not allowed) under Islam.
France was seriously unhappy, having lost control of the canal that it built and financed and had dreamed of for decades.
Phibunsongkhram adopted an aggressive anti-imperialist stance, supporting war claims to "recover" lands lost to France.
In 1833 a new proposal was advanced, this time for "the free exercise of religion by all Christian religious sects", by Søren Anton Wilhelm Sørenssen.
Its motto, designated in 1996, is: "Together for the persecuted." History Stefanus Alliance International was established in 1967 by Monrad Norderval, Anutza Moise, Vemund Skard, Else-Marie Skard and Gulbrand Øverbye.
The constitution also states, "the King shall at all times profess the Evangelical-Lutheran religion," and that national values shall remain anchored in the country's Christian and humanistic heritage.
All religious faiths and churches are equally free before the law." Freedom of religion The constitution provides for freedom of religion.
The Court also appointed three nodal counsels to coordinate arguments and directed them to determine among themselves who would represent the consolidated petitions during the hearing on May 5.
Early life William Ewart Gladstone was born on 29 December 1809 at 62 Rodney Street in Liverpool, the fourth son of Sir John Gladstone, a wealthy Scottish merchant, slave owner, planter and Tory politician; and his second wife, Anne MacKenzie Robertson.
Other religious statistics The National Administrative Department of Statistics (DANE) does not collect religious statistics, and accurate reports are difficult to obtain.
The introduction of the bill was intended more for public discussion than with any real hope that it would become law.
A report in 2021 noted that despite some changes in government and society, the small communities of religious minorities (including Hindus, Sikhs, Christians, Ahmadi Muslims and Baháʼís) remained endangered, without the ability to observe their faith publicly for fear of violent reprisal.
The Chamber argued that the "negative" freedom of religion was not limited to the absence of religious services or religious education: it extended to practices and symbols expressing, in particular or in general, a belief, a religion or atheism.
For example, the government provides the Catholic Church with free television broadcast time for religious services.
Historical perspectives The intolerance, and even the active persecution of religious minorities (sometimes religious majorities as in modern Bahrain or the Pre-Dutch Indonesian kingdoms), has a long history.
Article 282 of the code exempts non-Muslims from the code's provisions, allowing them to follow their own religious rules pertaining to family or personal status.
In January 1894, Gladstone wrote that he would not "break to pieces the continuous action of my political life, nor trample on the tradition received from every colleague who has ever been my teacher" by supporting naval rearmament.
On the night of 21 April 1950, a group of several dozen Security Office officers stormed the Branch Office in Łódź.
The court granted the injunction, and the Church's petition was rejected by the Supreme Court of Sweden.
More commonly, seminarians were sent abroad for training, although such stop-gap measures did not nearly make up for the losses imposed by the May Laws.
Although it made little headway in changing official government policy towards non-Muslims in Khartoum, the commission created a forum for dialogue on religious matters that was previously nonexistent; it obtained release or leniency for some non-Muslims arrested for violating Shari'a law.
Facts In 1973, the Church of Scientology of Sweden placed an advertisement for an E-meter in its periodical.
Ten countries, 33 MEPs (jointly) and several NGOs were authorised as third parties to present written observations, several others were refused.
Weatherhead, published by the Board of Practice and Procedure of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland (Edinburgh, 1997), ISBN 0-86153-246-5.
Religious demography In 2019, 74.57% of the population were Muslim, 17.93% were Christian and 7.48% were 'other', mainly Hindus and Buddhists; there were also a small number of Ahmadi Muslims in Kuwait.
Pagan The Kishinev community a "Patrimonial Ring" ("Родовое Кольцо") unites adherents of Slavic vernacular religion.
The Zaman newspaper, which is the most prominent pro-Gülen newspaper in Turkey and also one of the most widely circulated, carried headlines such as 'An educational coup' and 'Such a law was never even seen in the coup years'.
The new law earned Gustav III a letter of thanksgiving from Pope Pius VI, and the king responded by expressing his joy at having won the approval of such an enlightened ruler.
In all circumstances except mental incapacitation, the father, regardless of custody decisions, retains the right to make certain legal decisions for his children, such as guardianship of any property belonging to the child, until the child reaches legal age.
In September 2006, a court convicted of attempted murder and of inciting ethnic and religious strife, and sentenced to 16 years in prison, a man who stabbed eight persons during evening prayers in the Chabad synagogue in Moscow in January 2006.
Many Hindu advocacy groups have protested what they allege is a systematic plan of temple cleansing in Malaysia.
However, they have simultaneously declared "that the human person has a right to religious freedom," a move that some traditionalist Catholics argue is at odds with previous doctrinal pronouncements.
The 1648 Treaty gave nations the right of sovereignty and it also allowed minority Christian denominations to exist within the Holy Roman Empire.
Marriages conducted by the religious communities having agreements with the state are officially recognized, eliminating the need to register the marriages in the civil registry office.
Locke's proposed relation between a tolerant state and the humans, who were associated to it as citizens, had to be granted by a social contract.
The constitution sets forth the criteria for all associations, including religious ones, and states that the association may not be military or armed; may not be aimed at promoting violence, racism, xenophobia, or dictatorship; and may not be in violation of the penal law.
People practice traditional indigenous religious beliefs throughout the country, especially in rural communities.
Stuyvesant did not relent in his efforts to require the inhabitants of Flushing to support a pastor of his choosing nor did he change the method for electing a schout.
On February 9, 2022, Max Nibert, Cameron Mays, and Samuel Felinton led hundreds of students in a coordinated walkout that continued over several school days.
In some schools, the religious curriculum is a Christian-oriented “Bible knowledge” course, while in others it is an interfaith “moral and religious education” course drawing from the Christian, Islamic, Hindu, and Baháʼí faiths.
cut open while still alive for their kidneys, livers, hearts, lungs, cornea, and skin to be removed and turned into commodities for sale".
The About–Picard law Commentators often refer to the Law 2001-504 of June 12, 2001 as the About–Picard law, from the name of its rapporteurs (parliamentarians who report upon the draft law), senator Nicolas About (UDF center-right party) and deputy Catherine Picard (PS center-left party).
The employer had done everything to accommodate his needs, and so when he refused alternative offers and still refused to work, his dismissal was fair.
Education Religious instruction is mandatory for pupils in grades 4-8 in all schools; non-Muslim pupils may opt out after two years.
He supported the principles of limited government, constitutionalism, and separation of church and state, while opposing both royal absolutism and religious toleration.
On 25 May 1808, Henry Grattan, in moving for a parliamentary committee to consider the claims of the Catholics, said he was authorised by them to propose that no Catholic bishop be appointed without the entire approbation of His Majesty.
Mauritania follows the Maliki madhab, which has certain unique laws not applicable to other madhabs.
The committee was composed of following members in 2020: Ingvill Thorson Plesner (researcher at HL-senteret), Erling Rimehaug (editor and writer), Anne Beathe Kristiansen Tvinnereim (politician]), and Ingunn Yri Øystese (board member of the Stefanus Alliance International).
The act was followed in 1782 by the Judereglementet ('The Jewish Regulations'), which guaranteed freedom of religion specifically for Jewish immigrants.
On 17 December 2004, the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal (VCAT) ruled that Nalliah, Scot and the Christian group Catch the Fire Ministries had vilified Muslims at the seminar, and in a newsletter and website article authored by the group.
Tony Benn argued that due to Charter 88 having to maintain a coalition of judges, lawyers, as well as politicians from the Liberal Party, Social Democratic Party and some establishment figures in the Labour Party, that Charter 88 could not properly advocate for economic and social rights.
He received the award on November 11, 2005 for his "fearless and courageous commitment to freedom of belief and human rights in Egypt." Selection Committee The laureates are chosen by a committee appointed by the Stefanus Alliance International.
Tzanetakos had accumulated over $6,000 in donations he intended to use to instigate a scholarship fund sponsored by the Miami chapter.
Indeed, the deepest root of self-sacrificing surrender for the lowly was his passionate love for Jesus Christ and his ardent desire to be conformed to him, even unto death.
The MERA approved a limited number of "church visas" to professional clergy of non-Islamic congregations.
Students left the building and gathered outside the school, holding signs and chanting slogans calling for religious freedom and the separation of church and state.
However, it found the interference necessary in a democratic society, stating that "the test of 'necessity' in the second paragraph of Article 10 should therefore be a less strict one when applied to restraints imposed on commercial 'ideas'" (compared with 'political' ideas).
Kokkinakis appealed to the ECtHR under Articles 7, 9, 10 and 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
Private schools must hire a special teacher for teaching Islamic education, even in Christian schools.
Franz Kafka learned Yiddish and Hebrew as an adult and he had a great interest for Hasidism as well as for rabbinic literature.
History Religious uniformity was common in many modern theocratic and atheistic governments around the world until fairly modern times.
However, Rutherford's views on Church-State relations and his opposition to religious toleration were not shared by Locke.
English translation An English translation from the original Warsaw Confederation articles, with Latin phrases retained, provided by contemporary historians Tristan Korecki and Philip Earl Steele, is available online at the Polish History Museum in Warsaw.
Scholarly opinions Some Jewish feminist activists in Israel have seen the Women of the Wall's activities as being inconsistent with their political activities.
In some instances, police directly participated in the anti-Jehovah's Witness activities; in others, they censured those who were harassing the Jehovah's Witnesses.
Other issues of concern that remained between the two groups included the continued belief that Roman Catholics were proselytizing in the country and a proposal by a local priest to open a Catholic Carmelite convent whose main mission would be to work with orphans in the city of Nizhniy Novgorod.
Another victory for the Catholics was the recognition of the Roman Catholic primate of Poland, Jakub Uchański, as interrex, who would henceforth convene assemblies, appoint, and crown the king.
As demolition efforts began in 2013, government officials increased tension by cutting off the church's electricity and water supply.
He was not dismissed because he was a Christian believer, but simply because his religious requirements were not compatible with the job.
Invocations since 2014 After the Greece, New York, decision by the Supreme Court, Atheists of Florida members have delivered invocations on several occasions to various local government bodies, all without incident.
For Art 8, ‘given the almost inevitable compromise and balance between work and family commitments, particularly in families where both partners work’ there was no interference, to constitute any violation.
Leadership On April 3, 2018, Stefanus Alliance International publicized its decision to appoint Ed Brown as the new secretary-general as of August 1, 2018, replacing Hilde Skaar Vollebæk.
Electric shocks were regularly administered, with electrodes attached to sensitive areas like feet or chins.
His position as treatment coordinator allowed him to combine AA principles with traditional Native spiritual practices, particularly the daily sweat lodge ceremony.
Booker and Glass defend the court's interpretation of the provision and other Constitutional rights, saying "the High Court can only work with the constitutional provisions before it".
He declared at the meeting that his own comparative studies on philosophy had meant he could not accept Islam, and declared himself to be an atheist.
See also Early Rain Covenant Church – a house church in Chengdu, Sichuan, southwestern China References External links Official website
Significance Late-16th-century Poland–Lithuania stood between the Orthodox Tsardom of Moscow in the East, the Muslim Ottoman Empire to the South, and Western Europe, torn between Protestant Reformation and Counter-Reformation, to the North and West.
Public schools conduct instruction in French, and public bilingual schools conduct classes in French and Arabic.
Reactions Governments United States: On April 9, 2024, an official letter was sent to Ukraine from the US Commission on International Religious Freedom expressing concern about the situation caused by the consideration of draft law No.
History The Stefanus Prize was established in 2005 by the Norwegian NGO Stefanus Alliance International, and has been awarded biennially since 2008.
Proceedings and judgment In 1997, the European Court of Human Rights concluded unanimously that there had been a violation of Article 9.
Enforcement of the revocation relaxed under the reign of Louis XV, but the revocation remained law for a century.
Catholicism The Catholic Church in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the third largest religion in Bosnia and Herzegovina making up around less than eighth of the nations population.
As a result, six TÜBİTAK experts at were fired in late February, with Minister Fikri Işık accusing them of supporting Gülen and accusing the parallel structure in general of infiltrating TÜBİTAK.
On 13 August, it was revealed in tribunal that the matter had been settled overnight, and Wilson read a statement acknowledging that Watts was not a Satanist and expressing "regret for any hurt felt by Ms Watts in consequence of his press release".
A magistrate of Shari'a, who heads a separate government commission, decides the dates for observing religious holidays and addresses the nation on these holidays.
In 2022, tensions continue over land use, as many people associate herders with Islam and farmers with Christianity.
(Repealed) Article 43 (amended in 2007) set a deadline of three months by which measures for implementation will be determined.
The Consumer Ombudsman, acting upon complaints, requested the Market Court place an injunction prohibiting the use of certain passages in the advertisement, namely that it was "an invaluable aid to measuring man's mental state and changes in it".
citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.
However, the observances which the prayers fulfilled were mandated by various acts of Parliament; so a bill, initially called the Occasional Forms of Prayer Bill, was introduced in February 1859 to repeal the provisions which were no longer being enforced.
The Government accords "recognized" status to Catholicism, Protestantism (including Evangelicals and Pentecostals), Judaism, Anglicanism (separately from other Protestant groups), Islam, and Orthodox (Greek and Russian).
As a result, several Protestant churches and "nontraditional" groups were at an impasse: denied permission to convert their properties for religious use because they were not registered, but unable to register due to the lack of a legal address.
IHP+ mobilizes national governments, development agencies, civil society, and others to support a single, country-led national health strategy in a well-coordinated way.
I hope people who don't like the little film will still think about the big issue and try to do something about it." Withdrawal of sponsors Several sponsors withdrew their support of 10:10 as a result of the No Pressure film.
This, the report explained, could be solved by optimizing usage of these sources by switching from coal to gas, by preventing methane leakages, and by stopping routine flaring.
He was previously involved in deals to sell Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine at a premium during the COVID 19 pandemic.
Stark resigned after three months to take up a role in government and was replaced by COO Michael Rea.
In July 2021, permits were being handed out for free rather than auctioned, and the market price per tonne of CO2e was around RMB 50, roughly half of the EU ETS and the UK ETS but better compared to the US, which has no formal cap-and-trade program.
Internal prices also typically rise with national GDP, company size (number of employees), and quality of corporate governance (number of independent board members and percentage of female board members).
History South Pole was founded in 2006 by graduates of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH) including Patrick Bürgi, Thomas Camerata, Renat Heuberger, Ingo Puhl, and Christoph Sutter, and joined by Christoph Grobbel, Marco Hirsbrunner, and Christian Dannecker as equal partners.
“Embodied carbon refers to the carbon footprint associated with building materials, from cradle to grave," and can be quantified as a part of environmental impact using life-cycle assessment (LCA).
Addressing the growing demand for reliable and detailed information on emissions trading worldwide, ICAP developed an interactive ICAP ETS Map, which offers an up-to-date overview of existing ETSs.
Credit-level integrity: development of threshold standards intended to raise credit quality, including through the proposed Core Carbon Principles.
Climate Change and Emissions Management Fund A third option would be for companies to pay $15 for every tonne over their reduction target.
This enabled the company to develop over 700 CDM projects located in 45 countries and using 50 technologies.
Secretary of State, personally called officials in different countries to threaten financial penalties and other penalties.
The Integrity Council for the Voluntary Carbon Market (ICVCM) is an independent governance body that publishes the Core Carbon Principles (CCPs) and related guidance intended to define high-level integrity criteria for carbon credits used in the voluntary carbon market.
taxiformis in vertical, near-shore land-based tanks, using seawater to provide the proper temperature and nutrients.
Ontario Following the election of a Progressive Conservative Party government under Doug Ford in the 2018 Ontario general election, Ontario cancelled its participation in the Western Climate Initiative cap-and-trade system.
In March 2019, Chancellor Merkel formed a "climate cabinet" to find a consensus on new emissions reduction measures to meet 2030 targets.
As of 2025 a law has been passed but allowances not yet decided, and it has not yet clear whether the country will join the Cooperative Mechanisms under Article 6 of the Paris Agreement.
Benefits The carbon market in India seeks the following benefits: Improves agricultural practices and social communities through emission reductions to improve their source of income through the voluntary credit market.
Pan, Y.; Birdsey, R.; Fang, J.; Hougton, R.; Kauppi, P.; Kurz, W.; Phillips, O.; Shvidenko, A.; Canadell, J.; Ciais, P.; Jackson, R.; Lewis, S.; McGuire, D.; Pacala, S.; Piao, S.; Rautiainen, A.; Sitch, S.; Hayes, D.
ART is governed by an independent advisory board, while daily operations are managed by the ART Secretariat, hosted by Winrock International.
Media coverage The launch of the PopOffsets project on 3 December 2009 received international media coverage from both print and broadcast media outlets, including in The Guardian, The Times, The Sunday Express, The Telegraph, Reuters, BBC and Channel 4.
For example, under Premier Blaine Higgs, the New Brunswick Attorney General submitted his intention to intervene in Saskatchewan's court challenge of the federal government's carbon pricing plan.
REPs are incentives for homeowners, farmers, businesses, etc., to become producers of renewable energy, or to increase their production of renewable energy.
Developing countries did take on obligations under the Protocol, but these were unquantified and allowed climate change to be addressed as part of wider national policies on sustainable development.
The Program of Activities (PoA) under the Clean Development Mechanism is regarded a precedor of a future NAMA mechanism and already operational.
Despite their contribution to the construction industry and the generation of jobs, artisanal brick producers largely operate informally and are generally excluded from social, environmental and economic public policies.
In it, Stern discusses the effect of global warming on the world economy, and states that climate change is the greatest and widest-ranging market failure ever seen, presenting a unique challenge for economics.
Presidential decree N° 7.390 of 2010 The decree specifies how Brazil quantifies greenhouse emissions, how it will achieve the reduction, and a legal requirement for estimating annual emissions.
History Ember was originally founded in 2008 as Sandbag, focussing on the European Union's Emission Trading Scheme, allowing its members to campaign to reduce the number of permits in circulation and to purchase permits and cancel them.
VAT fraud In 2009 Europol informed that 90% market volume of emissions trading in some countries could be the result of tax fraud, more specifically missing trader fraud, costing governments more than 5 billion euros.
A comprehensive study, published in Energy Policy in 2013, reported that Germany's nuclear power phase-out, to be complete by 2022, is contradictory to the goal of the climate portion of the program.
The Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009 (asp 12) is an act of the Scottish Parliament concerning the setting of emissions reductions targets and certain other matters.
sanfordiana, is a species of red algae, with cosmopolitan distribution in tropical to warm temperate waters.
Jeff Huang is assistant chairman of Tianjin Climate Exchange and vice-president of Chicago Climate Exchange.
It has also supported results-based payments: a pilot programme for REDD+ results-based payments ran from 2017 to 2022, and in October 2024 the GCF Board adopted a policy establishing REDD+ results-based payments as a permanent funding window within the Fund.
The annual cost of compliance is estimated to be $177 million - or less than one-tenth of one per cent of Alberta's nominal GDP ($242 billion in 2006).
Among the regulations outlined in the plan were initiatives to increase natural disaster preparedness, create and improve existing hospitals, and modernize infrastructure to withstand better extreme weather.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WSJTKyDuI6I Explanatory Film - The Climate Action Plan: Successful climate action has to be a cooperative undertaking.
In the first scene, a bright and chirpy schoolteacher, played by Lyndsey Marshal, tells her class about the 10:10 campaign, and asks what they are doing to reduce their carbon footprint.
This included a joint FCPF/UN-REDD template for Readiness Preparation Proposals (R-PPs) and joint guidance on stakeholder engagement in REDD+ readiness.
An emissions reduction currency, by contrast, is purely an incentive for behaviour change by individuals or groups.
The third phase of CERT (previously known as Energy Efficiency Commitment 3) originally ran from 2008 to 2011 and increased the previous targets to 154 MtC.
Examples Venice The city of Venice serves as an example of how a modern city can function without cars.
It provides a platform for governments to share their practical experiences and the latest knowledge on ETS.
Simpson Grierson considered that the key findings of the review were that: the IPCC Fourth Assessment Report represents a consensus on scientific evidence, and should underpin New Zealand's policy.
There have been efforts in the past to organize subnational governments to address climate change most notably through the Cities for Climate Protection Program - an effort associated with the International Union of Local Authorities and the United Nations Environment Programme.
Voluntary Emission Reductions or Verified Emission Reductions (VERs) are a type of carbon offset exchanged in the voluntary or over-the-counter market for carbon credits.
In 2005, EcoSecurities Group Plc was listed in the London Stock Exchange, raising capital for an expansion drive that resulted in offices in 33 countries run by over 350 employees.
Such cuts will require "a significant contribution by the electrification of new cars and should have priority".
It described this as a shared data layer linking registry identifiers and transaction status so credits could be traced consistently as they move between accounts and intermediaries.
Incentivize the sustainable use of degraded land and ecosystems, and remove incentives that encourage forest destruction.
The programme now operates in the United Kingdom, Australia, Chile, United Arab Emirates as well as New Zealand.
In the 2015 Autumn Statement, the Chancellor, George Osborne, announced that an additional £225 million budget for automotive research and development would be facilitated by the APC.
Goods leaving the US for sale in a country without a carbon price would be reimbursed that fee at the border.
Examples of each category are as follows: Forest Management Rotation extensions: Allowing trees to grow for longer periods to increase carbon absorption.
Assigned amount units were issued up to the level of initial "assigned amount" of an Annex 1 Party to the Kyoto Protocol.
During Trump's second term in office, the office was re-established under the name "Office of Coal".
Such emissions should be reduced as far as possible by developing new processes and replacing old ones – or through the use of carbon capture and utilization (CCU) or carbon capture and storage (CCS).
Other names included Liberian peace activist and advocate for women's rights, Leymah Gbowee, and Wole Soyinka, the Nigerian playwright, novelist and poet.
The Advanced Propulsion Centre (APC) is a non-profit organisation that facilitates funding to UK-based research and development projects developing net-zero emission technologies.
The Open Coalition on Compliance Carbon Markets also known as Climate Coalition, was created during the United Nations Climate Conference 2025 COP30 in Belém, Brazil.
It believes that the crisis of climate change requires a national economic effort on the scale of the American mobilization of the home front during World War II, in order to transform the USA economy speedily.
The emissions from 2,500 hours of driving one standard diesel vehicle produces about 150 litres of ink.
Results As of November 2014, 28 schools had raised enough money for solar panels, and 27 schools had installed them through the scheme.
Members noted that the experiences in Panama provided valuable lessons for other REDD+ countries and highlighted the importance of strong stakeholder engagement processes.
In the second phase of the Energy Efficiency Commitment (2005–2008) scheme, energy saving targets were raised to 130 TWh suppliers, and here suppliers with at least 50,000 domestic customers (including affiliated licenses) were eligible for an obligation.
Emissions figures from the 2010–11 financial year suggest the electricity generation sector may be due to pay around A$3.9 billion.
By April 2014, Willauer's team had not yet made fuel to the standard required by military jets, but they were able in September 2013 to use the fuel to fly a radio-controlled model airplane powered by a common two-stroke internal combustion engine.
A 1995 report compared converting vehicle fleets for the use of carbon-neutral methanol with the further synthesis of gasoline.
The fall of the Soviet Union led to massive restructuring and deindustrialization of many of the former Soviet Bloc.
In the United States, most carbon dioxide (98 percent) is emitted as a result of the combustion of fossil fuels; consequently, carbon dioxide emissions and energy use are highly correlated.
The rationale behind a meta registry is to maintain transparency and prevent double counting and double issuance.
The first four companies to receive the Water Standard were Sainsbury's, Coca-Cola, Sunlight Services Group and Branston.
In March 2017, Trump signed an executive order to officially nullify Obama's Clean Power Plan in an effort, it said, of reviving the coal industry.
See also Certified Emission Reduction Emission Reduction Unit Removal Units Voluntary Emissions Reduction Flexible mechanisms List of Kyoto Protocol signatories == References ==
Observers of the accord are Indiana, Ohio, and South Dakota, as well as the Canadian Province of Ontario.
The term commonly encompasses two broad categories: large-scale carbon dioxide removal (CDR) and solar radiation modification (SRM).
Proponents of Renewable Energy Payments argue that this policy has proven to stimulate local economies, innovation and small business growth because in its truest form REP's put everyone, whether small business, individual, or farmers on an equal footing with large commercial titans of industry.
The purpose of GCC methodology is to make them user friendly, and simple where possible, without compromising with their environmental integrity.
History The Alliance was launched by Canada and the UK at the COP23 climate summit in November 2017.
The report consisted of minority reports from the New Zealand Labour Party, the Green Party, the Māori Party and the ACT Party.
Before its release, The Guardian described it as "attention-grabbing" and "pretty edgy." The film was withdrawn from public circulation by 10:10, on the same day it was released, due to negative publicity.
Main methods Alkaline Electrolyzers (AE): A mature and cost-effective technology used primarily for large-scale, steady hydrogen production.
See also CEB VER Verified Carbon Standard CDM Gold Standard Certified Emission Reduction == References ==
In 2013, the Fluid Interfaces research group, at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology demonstrated the process of converting carbon residue into ink for use in an inkjet cartridge.
Then-Governor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger, expressed at ICAP's founding ceremony: "This first-of-its-kind partnership will provide more incentives for clean-tech investment and economic growth while not letting polluters off the hook.
President Bill Clinton signed the agreement in November 1998, but the US Senate refused to ratify it, citing potential damage to the US economy required by compliance.
Verified Emission Reductions are usually created by projects which have been verified outside of the Kyoto Protocol.
Main findings Renewable energy can contribute to "social and economic development, energy access, secure energy supply, climate change mitigation, and the reduction of negative environmental and health impacts".
Hydrogen power In 2009, Japan fitted over 100,000 homes with hydrogen powered fuel cells, improving its hydrogen powered infrastructure.
The Carbon Trust also initiated work on new and emerging low carbon technologies using a range of programmes and measures including traditional research, development, and demonstration support to supporting early stage companies developing new technologies and practices.
However, if a country was not able to meet their obligation, their target would get added to their next commitment period.
Critical climate change experts decry these credits as a way for countries to buy their way out of taking action to address climate change.
At the 2009 Copenhagen climate conference, a Bangladeshi delegate told reporters that Bangladesh might let the World Bank manage the funds, if that was set as a condition by funders.
CO2balance adheres to a profit for purpose approach, whereby revenue from the sale of carbon credits is used to maintain projects over the long term and reinvested into new project development.
Samuele Landi, an Italian businessman convicted of fraudulent bankruptcy who lived as a fugitive until his death at sea in 2024, was listed as an advisor to Blue Carbon.
REDD (2005–2007) REDD was first discussed in 2005 under the UNFCCC at its 11th session of the Conference of the Parties after Papua New Guinea and Costa Rica, on behalf of the Coalition for Rainforest Nations, submitted the proposal on reducing emissions from deforestation in developing countries.
The association manages exclosures (land protected from grazing) with the intent of improving the ecosystem and sequestering carbon.
Features The carbon market in India includes multiple features: A system of trading to buy and sell credits permitting an industrial unit to emit a specific amount of greenhouse gas.
The aim is to create a "durable institutional architecture—aligning climate ambition with economic competitiveness." == References ==
Course 50 is encouraging innovation in technology towards more effective CO2 capturing polymers, as well as temperature reduction and improved efficiency of blast furnaces in the steel industrious.
As of June 2019, five provinces and two territories are under the federal pricing system for one or both aspects of pollution pricing.
Alberta-based credits A facility can purchase credits from large emitters that have reduced their emissions intensity beyond their 12 per cent target.
2015 Deep Decarbonization Pathways Project study The Deep Decarbonization Pathways Project (DDPP) aims to demonstrate how countries can transform their energy systems by 2050 in order to achieve a low-carbon economy.
Clients get to use a specific CEMARS certification logo and are certified against ISO 14064-1 for organisation or PAS 2050 for product or service carboNZero certification is for organisations, products, services or events to make a carbon neutrality claim.
The Clean Air Act (1990) or Clean Air Act amendments of 1990 authorized the use of market-based approaches such as emission trading to assist states in attaining and maintaining air quality for all criteria pollutants.
Other French cities with a LEZ in operation include Grenoble, Lyon and Strasbourg Germany In Germany, an LEZ is called an environmental zone (Umweltzone).
A comprehensive, upstream, auctioned cap-and-trade system is very similar to a comprehensive, upstream carbon tax.
Working in coordination with public bodies to incorporate the artisanal brick production sector within the national climate change mitigation agenda.
Google violations On 22 April 2008, Ecocho was informed by Google that they would be denied the use of Google's search technologies for multiple past violations of Google's policies.
It is normally mined underground before being transported to power stations, or export shipping terminals.
The revenue that would be collected would be 100% returned as a monthly or annual payment to every American household.
This strategy focuses on the availability and use of alternative modes of transportation to driving as well as reducing the emissions associated with driving.
The application is designed to meet the new requirements of the EU ETS resulting from the 2008/101/CE Directive.
This comprised nearly €76 billion for initiatives related to power grids, energy efficiency, and renewable energy throughout Europe and other parts of the world.
Sandbag was re-branded as Ember in 2020 with a focus on the global power sector, while a separate Brussels-based organisation was established to continue work on the ETS.
Market role ART has been closely associated with the LEAF Coalition, which uses TREES-certified credits in its purchase arrangements and became a major buyer of jurisdictional TREES credits.
The negative market response was concentrated among EU companies subject to the CBAM with low profit margins.
A Clean Air Task Force (CATF) study investigated public health benefits arising from the RGGI states' shift to cleaner power generation.
Funding The funds gathered from online donations were distributed between rights-based family planning schemes, contraceptive services and supplies, sex and relationship education and health programs.
Climate Defiance is a climate movement organization in the United States which uses direct action protests to demand stronger climate change mitigation policies.
In the Uniform Price scenario with a price of 50 dollars per ton of CO2, for 5 countries the revenue can represent more than 1% of the overall governmental revenue.
The bill aimed to make the use of non-fossil fuel sources mandatory for energy and encourage feedstocks like green ammonia, green hydrogen, ethanol and biomass.
Negotiations The IMO Net-Zero Framework (NZF) was drafted by Marine Environment Protection Committee Meeting 83 (MEPC83) and was initially scheduled for adoption by the IMO at an extraordinary meeting in October 2025.
The report also proposed shared data fields and protocols intended to be broadly accessible, framing common data infrastructure as a way to increase transparency and oversight as trading volumes grew.
Among those emitters to which it applied, emissions were significantly lower after introduction of the tax.
The refund is paid in biannual installments for residential customers and monthly for small businesses.
The Stern Report shows that the overall cost of strong early action is much less than the cost of inaction.
There is no legal requirement for organisations to act on or implement any of the recommendations made in the report.
In January 2018, Yasa, an electric motor manufacturer based in Oxford, England, opened a new factory to produce 100,000 motors per year, using APC funding.
The program reduced expenditures on medicine by about 1.5% ($800 million annually) and reduced the mortality rate by up to 0.5% (2,200 fewer premature deaths, mainly among individuals 75 and older).
The Initial IMO GHG Strategy lists criteria to assess impacts on States, and MEPC 74 approved a procedure for assessing impacts on States of candidate measures.
The scheme required entities which emit over 25,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent greenhouse gases per year, and which were not in the transport or agriculture sectors, to obtain emissions permits, called carbon units.
The mixed reactions from users can be seen in the blog comments, some taking further action by complaining to Google, and others agreeing with Google.
In 2010 the Government increased the target to 293 MtC, to be achieved over an extended period running until the end of 2012 (see The Electricity and Gas (Carbon Emissions Reduction) (Amendment) Order 2010: S.I.2010/1958).
On 14 September 2009, the National Government announced that it had reached an agreement with the Māori Party about revisions to the NZ ETS.
It is also supported by companies including Microsoft, Pepsico, First Solar, American Wind Energy Association, Exxon Mobil, BP, and General Motors.
On 9 February 2007 CAF declared: Premiers and Chief Ministers expressed their expectation that the Prime Minister would make a commitment to the introduction of a national emissions trading scheme following receipt of the Task Group report in May 2007.
All funds collected under the federal system are returned to the province or territory where they are collected.
In 2021, a 10% stake in the South Pole was bought by Lightrock, a leading global impact investor backed by LGT and the Princely House of Liechtenstein.
It has been suggested that mandatory carbon allowances could be included in future so that it would become a carbon market similar to the Chinese and EU ETS.
Department of Energy (DOE) conducted projects called the Clean Coal Technology & Clean Coal Power Initiative (CCPI).
Context For many years, there has been severe land degradation and desertification in Tigray and the area became also impoverished; however, a lot of efforts are done to rehabilitate these semi-arid mountain landscapes.
They can also purchase credits from facilities whose emissions are below the 100,000-tonne threshold but are voluntarily reducing their emissions.
Campaigners have expressed concern about the 10–15% management fees to be charged by World Bank consultants and the lack of democratic access to adaptation funding.
Examples of program assessments ICVCM's assessment status information lists major programs including Gold Standard and Verra's Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) as CCP-Eligible programs.
In 2025 experts said that the lack of clarity on allowances (caps) was hindering future decarbonization.
It started as a memorandum of understanding, which was signed by twelve founding jurisdictions on May 19, 2015 in Sacramento, California.
The experience gained in the pilot areas will serve as a basis to expand EELA’s intervention at a national level.
The plan also promotes strategies to reduce emissions from transportation, which account for over 20 percent of local greenhouse gas sources.
Building upon the achievements of the Eleventh Five-Year Plan, it became increasingly difficult to encourage smaller enterprises—many of which already operated efficiently—to adopt stricter targets.
Withdrawal Although originally planned to be shown in cinema and television advertisements, 10:10 removed the film from their website and YouTube later on 1 October 2010.
In assessing Australia’s further contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, these advantages must be preserved.
Climate Defiance disrupted the 2023 White House Correspondents Dinner, an event for Exxon CEO Darren Woods, and the speaking events of several powerful Democratic officials, including Tommy Beaudreau, Pete Buttigieg, Jennifer Granholm, Amy Klobuchar, Joe Manchin, Jerome Powell, and Ali Zaidi.
PAS 2060 is a specification detailing how to demonstrate carbon neutrality produced and published by the British Standards Institution.
On February 15, 2009, the Bangladeshi government refused to accept a £60 million climate funding offer from the United Kingdom at if it was channeled through the World Bank, at first, then the government has accepted the terms and the money.
It also emphasizes financial assistance from developed countries to developing countries to reduce emissions.
This led to a subsequent criticism of Energiewende's strategy, and how this impacted different countries in Europe.
Oram concluded that the review had 'failed to make any serious contribution towards improving the working of the ETS'.
(2a) Next, the company projects how much methane it expects to emit into the air, with the new technology.
The report also stated that the "net financial impact of the program on households in different income brackets would depend in large part on how many allowances were sold (versus given away), how the free allowances were allocated, and how any proceeds from selling allowances were used.
Subsequent inspections must be conducted by an accredited energy assessor within five years of the previous inspection.
Command-and-control regulation Command and control is a system of regulation that prescribes emission limits and compliance methods for each facility or source.
Recyclebank is also funded by municipal governments that purchase and operate the required equipment, allowing RecycleBank to operate as a private for profit company.
The term recognizes that different countries may take different nationally appropriate action on the basis of equity and in accordance with common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities.
Current priorities include financing for climate action and responding to global crises like the COVID-19 pandemic.
Before the Under2 MOU was conceived many subnational governments had taken the initiative to create a climate action plan.
EBEX21 was established to assist landowners to retire or set aside marginally productive land and allow it to regenerate to create new areas of native forest.
GCC program framework GCC Program has developed the governance structure, systems, carbon registry and the documentation framework to facilitate the building of low-carbon economies.
Canada In 2014 SaskPower a provincial-owned electric utility finished renovations on Boundary Dam's boiler number 3 making it the world's first post-combustion carbon capture storage facility.
In total, Blue Carbon has secured forested area equivalent to the land area of the entire United Kingdom.
There is also concern regarding the biased ranking that occurs if some included options have negative costs.
The final accepted compromise became stronger in CO2 emission reduction than the proposal from the European Commission.
According to the treaty, in 2012, Annex I Parties who have ratified the treaty must have fulfilled their obligations of greenhouse gas emissions limitations established for the Kyoto Protocol's first commitment period (2008–2012).
In the United States RGGI (Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative) has set a precedent in that it will initially allow only up to 3.3% compliance occur by means of offset projects (carbon projects).
Corporate social responsibility CO2balance offers a corporate social responsibility service to corporate clients, to complement the environmental and social benefits of their climate protection projects.
The funding for the refund comes from the utility providers who pay a carbon tax for polluting the air, and the refund is the dividend portion of the carbon fee and dividend program created by the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006.
On the 27th October 2023, South Pole cut all ties with the project, confirming that the project had failed to meet standards.
Sharma and his team spent close to three years researching how to purify and repurpose carbon soot from auto and factory emissions, a major contributor to air pollution and global carbon footprint.
History The British Standards Institution announced the development of the PAS 2060 Standard for Carbon Neutrality in October 2009 with the objective of increasing transparency of carbon neutrality claims by providing a common definition and recognized method of achieving carbon neutral status.
These initiatives taken together may create a series of partly linked markets, rather than a single carbon market.
Economic development projects for community and gender and conservation of biodiversity through voluntary credit markets using premium pricing.
In June 2020 6 global finance organisations joined including Desjardins Group, the first major North American financial institution to join.
The system has been the subject of a UK government funded feasibility study in 2008, an All Party Parliamentary Group report in 2011, and a European Commission debate in 2018.
Exporters have to pay the EU Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism from 1 January 2026 until the Turkish ETS starts.
Simon Upton, a former National Party MP and Minister for the Environment, was appointed as a special envoy to liaise with other countries on the issue.
In 2010, World Bank commented that introducing border tariffs could lead to a proliferation of trade measures where the competitive playing field is viewed as being uneven.
References Japan Denies Buying ‘Hot Air’ to Meet Kyoto Target Russia and carbon trading, New York Times, 28 Dec 2005
The Council started discussions including representatives of all 27 member states on the legislative proposals in working parties on an expert level.
The peak of this curve is known as peak oil, and by changing the shape of the curve, the timing of the peak in oil production is affected.
When the Kyoto Protocol was negotiated, there were several mechanisms that allowed for trading of emissions credits.
The Net-Zero framework is in principle, designed to deliver on the 2023 GHG strategy, not only in terms of climate ambition but also addressing concerns relating to the just and equitable energy transition.
Although historically grouped together, these approaches differ substantially in mechanisms, timelines, and risk profiles, and are now typically discussed separately.
Progress As of 2025, the US has closed, or planned closure of, 65% of coal plants, Europe has planned the retirement of 50% of its coal fleet, and Canada has reduced its coal capacity by 83%.
10% in 2010 Possible's original campaign encouraged and supported individuals and organisations to cut their carbon emissions by 10% in 2010, and gave the group its name, 10:10 Climate Action.
Founded in 2009, the organisation began by campaigning for a 10% reduction in carbon emissions in 2010, and has since broadened its approach to include a range of projects focused on carbon reduction and renewable energy.
In a broad stroke, Renewable Energy Payments, sometimes known as a Feed-in Tariff place obligations on utility companies to buy electricity from renewable energy sources, often small, local companies, for a fixed period of time.
They found that the effects of RGGI's first three years are generating in $1.6 billion in net economic benefit and 16,000 job-years, and RGGI's second three years are generating $1.3 billion in net economic benefit and 14,700 job-years.
Projects The formal crediting period for JI was aligned with the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, and did not start until January 2008 (Carbon Trust, 2009, p.
After the conference, Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina stated that establishing a Multi Donor Trust Fund is part of her government's response to climate change.
202, authorizing the city council to levy and collect an excise tax from residential, commercial and industrial electricity customers for the purpose of funding a climate action plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
It was expanded again on 29 August 2023 to coincide with the London low emission zone, covering almost all of Greater London.
Design The Chicago Climate Action Plan consists of five strategies: Energy Efficient Buildings; Clean & Renewable Energy Sources; Improved Transportation Options; Reduced Waste & Industrial Pollution; and Adaptation.
The carbon footprint measurements should include 100% of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, plus all Scope 3 emissions that contribute more than 1% of the total footprint.
The Improved Transportation Options strategy accounts for 23 percent of Chicago's total greenhouse gas reductions.
Article 6.1 states that "The acquisition of emission reduction units shall be supplemental to domestic actions for the purposes of meeting commitments under Article 3".
Australia (under Prime Minister John Howard) and the US subsequently did not ratify the Protocol, although Australia has since ratified the treaty.
Response to climate change World Bank President Jim Yong Kim said in 2012: A 4-degree warmer world can, and must be, avoided—we need to hold warming below 2 degrees ...
Human Rights Watch has reported alleged rights violations linked to specific forest-carbon projects, including claims relating to land and resource access and consultation processes.
Article 17 also required that any such emissions trading must be supplemental to domestic action for the purpose of meeting quantified emission limitation and reduction commitments.
There are costs that emitters do face, e.g., the costs of the fuel being used, but there are other costs that are not necessarily included in the price of a good or service.
The Declaration was named for the Lofoten archipelago where public concern has successfully prevented offshore development of petroleum reserves.
Funding required for verification was supplied by the local government rather than the enterprise, in order to reduce the compliance burden.
Among volunteers and donors it promotes greater charitable giving and eagerness to be involved in community projects.
History Since at least 2008, public figures like environmental analyst Lester Brown, former vice president Al Gore, author and energy expert Joseph J.
The underlying premise being that with fixed payments the once volatile renewable energy projects now become lendable and attractive for financing, thus stimulating growth and innovation.
Russia accounts for about two-thirds of these projected savings, with the remainder divided up roughly equally between Ukraine and the EU's New Member States.
Cool Earth 50 is planned to be a framework that would continue towards the goals set forth in the Kyoto Protocols.
The Carbon Trust was originally funded by around £50m of UK tax revenue generated from the Climate Change Levy (CCL), a tax on business energy use.
Málaga and Seville were the next cities to establish low emission zones, with traffic only allowed for residents, in 2009.
Proposals Proposals include: Tradable Energy Quotas (TEQs) – devised by environmental writer David Fleming, who first published the idea in 1996 under its former name Domestic Tradable Quotas (DTQs).
This amounted to about 45 percent of the yearly greenhouse gas emissions during that period in China.
An ambitious long-term target to reduce emissions, e.g., an 80% cut in UK emissions by 2050, requires significant domestic progress by 2020 and 2030 to reduce emissions.
Compliance measures The Certification Committee of the Ministry of Environment holds supervisory authority to review the annual emissions reports and the emissions was verified by a third-party.
In August 2021 the ART Board approved TREES 2.0, which expanded the standard beyond avoided deforestation and forest degradation to include optional HFLD and removals approaches and wider stakeholder participation pathways.
The Lofoten Declaration, drafted in August 2017, is an international manifesto calling for the end of hydrocarbon exploration and further expansion of fossil fuel reserves for climate change mitigation.
Announcing the launch, Climate Action Network-Canada Executive Director Catherine Abreu said: "Canada and the UK are right to kick-start the Alliance, as science tells us that OECD countries need to phase out coal by 2030 at the latest".
The current CEO is Josiane Sadaka, a British-educated brand manager for other companies owned by Sheikh Ahmed as well.
The only nuclear reactor in Australia is currently operated by ANSTO in the Sydney suburb of Lucas Heights.
A similar reduction would require a $13 (£8) investment in tree planting, $24 (£15) in wind power, $41 (£31) in solar energy and $92 (£56) in hybrid vehicle technology.
Through these schemes, industries and individuals voluntarily compensate for their emissions or provide an additional contribution to mitigating climate change.
The Powering Past Coal Alliance (PPCA) is a group of 188 countries, cities, regions and organisations aiming to accelerate the coal phase-out of coal-fired power stations, except the very few which have carbon capture and storage.
The COP/MOP is the body that represents the signers/ratifiers of the protocol and they have not been able to agree on a specific definition of the limit on use of flexible mechanisms.
This is via operation of a voluntary carbon marketplace to provide recognition of, and facilitate carbon finance for, GCC projects.
During the US Presidential campaign for 2008, both candidates John McCain and Barack Obama expressed interest in the development of CCS technologies as part of an overall comprehensive energy plan.
These are sold to organizations that have no regulatory obligation to offset their carbon emissions, but wish to do so on a voluntary basis, often as part of a carbon neutrality or corporate social responsibility programs.
This was followed in 2022 by the acquisition of Italy-based Carbonsink, with offices in Milan, Florence, and Maputo.
Carbon profiling is a mathematical process that calculates how much carbon dioxide is put into the atmosphere per m2 of space in a building over one year.
The refund represents only a portion of the carbon tax collected, with the rest of the funds collected going towards programs to fight climate change.
Research Ember currently produces research on global electricity trends and coal mine methane emissions, including research on the EU, India, Indonesia, Australia and Türkiye.
Supporters, including some researchers and market groups, have argued that historical baselines alone can under-reward jurisdictions maintaining large intact forests under rising pressure and have defended HFLD crediting as a way to direct finance before deforestation accelerates.
Emissions reduction currencies are not exchangeable within national cap and trade systems and as such do not confer any right to pollute.
An assigned amount unit was a tradable "Kyoto unit" or "carbon credit" representing an allowance to emit greenhouse gases comprising "one metric tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent, calculated using global warming potentials".
Governance ICAP functions as an open forum of governments and public authorities working on cap and trade systems.
(holding a 53% stake), Tianjin Property Rights Exchange (北方产权交易市场) (holding a 22% stake), and Chicago Climate Exchange (CCX) (holding a 25% stake), was unveiled in the Tianjin Binhai New Area.
The letter highlighted a report from the United Nations Environment Programme, stating that "120% more coal, oil, and gas will be produced by 2030 than is consistent with limiting warming to 1.5°C." The letter concluded that the expansion of the fossil fuel industry "is unconscionable ...
The first Meeting of Parties of the Kyoto Protocol (CMP) was held in 2005 in conjunction with COP 11.
After the closing down of streets and squares to personal car traffic, a pedestrian and bicycle network gradually emerges and joins several parts of the city.
Cancellation and reinstatement of the Climate Action Plan On the first day of the presidency of Donald Trump, the White House website announced that Obama's Climate Action Plan would be eliminated, stating it is "harmful and unnecessary".
The city council has the authority to increase the tax after the first year up to a maximum permitted tax rate of $0.0049/kWh for residential customers; $0.0009/kWh for commercial customers; and $0.0003/kWh for industrial customers.
While this method has existed for centuries, it is now sometimes referred to as farmer-managed natural regeneration or assisted natural regeneration.
The "European Green Hydrogen Acceleration Center" is tasked with developing a €100 billion a year green hydrogen economy by 2025.
Simon Sturgis and Gareth Roberts of Sturgis Associates in the United Kingdom originally developed ‘Carbon Profiling’ in December 2007.
In addition, landless youngsters derive much less income from sales of livestock or agricultural produce, in comparison to farmers with land.
2454) that would have established a variant of an emissions trading plan similar to the European Union Emission Trading Scheme.
The Forests Now Declaration was a 2007 declaration that advocates using carbon credits to protect tropical forests.
For every 1,000 searches, Ecocho claimed that 1 ton of greenhouse gases are offset through the planting of trees.
The Under2 Coalition is a coalition of subnational governments that aims to achieve greenhouse gases emissions mitigation.
Such recycling is expected to not only cost less than the excess economic impacts of climate change if it were not done, but also to pay for itself as global fuel demand growth and peak oil shortages increase the price of petroleum and fungible natural gas.
The Emissions Trading Scheme Review Committee was a special committee of the New Zealand Parliament which conducted a review of the Fifth Labour Government's Emissions Trading Scheme between December 2008 and late August 2009.
Areas of operation EELA began its first phase working with 970 artisanal brick producers in seven areas located in San Juan (Argentina), Cochabamba (Bolivia), Serido (Brazil), Nemocon (Colombia), Cuenca (Ecuador), Leon (Mexico) and Cusco (Peru).
It also provides 16 open data tools which track regional and global electricity transitions and coal mine methane emissions standards.
To date, Brazil has 347 clean development mechanism (CDM) projects, which account for 7.3% of the total projects worldwide.
In 2006, Tianjin Binhai New Area was designed by the State Council of the PRC as the national experimental zone for comprehensive reforms related to financial innovation, land and administrative management.
Senator Tom Harkin spoke on behalf of candidate Hillary Clinton, and climate advocates Jane Kleeb, founder of Bold Nebraska, and Iowa politician and radio host Ed Fallon spoke on behalf of candidate Bernie Sanders.
Through cap and trade, it is believed that both competitiveness and possibly carbon leakage will be reduced.
Opposition critics said the move was politically motivated, as the Liberal government has more Members of Parliament in the Atlantic provinces.
The Competitive Enterprise Institute argued that the bill was essentially the "largest tax hike in world history".
History The APC was founded in 2013 as a joint venture between the automotive industry and UK government to "research, develop and commercialise technologies for vehicles of the future".
Carbon offset The sequestered carbon is certified using the Plan Vivo voluntary carbon standard, after which carbon credits are sold, among others to Davines, an Italian producer of beauty products.
The UK established its own learning-by-doing voluntary scheme, the UK ETS, which ran from 2002 through 2006.
In March 2013, the Panama UN-REDD National Programme was suspended pending the results of an independent investigation and evaluation.
The communities are invited to design and implement the project themselves; for this purpose, EthioTrees uses a participatory mapping approach during all phases of the project.
History Anirudh Sharma, the founder of Graviky Labs, first conceived the idea of AIR-INK during an experiment at MIT, while designing a printer that could print with carbon nanoparticles.
In September 2009, the National-led government announced that a push would be made for the formation of a Global Alliance to investigate methods of reducing greenhouse gas emissions due to agriculture.
In addition to focusing on waste, this strategy has actions to reduce the emissions from refrigerants and use green infrastructure to capture stormwater.
Allocation and generation of fund Charge:March 2010 rates for electricity customers: Total Fund: $860,265 in the first year and up to $1,342,000/year thereafter through March 31, 2013Purpose: Renewable energy, energy efficiency, transportation.
Emissions rationing schemes Otherwise known as personal carbon trading, an emissions reduction currency system based on rationing presumes a standard ration of emissions allowable for an average citizen that incrementally decreases over time.
Amendments The act was amended by the Climate Change (Emissions Reduction Targets) (Scotland) Act 2019 (asp 15) to remove the target of a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of 75% for 2030, compared to 1990 levels.
Project-based voluntary carbon market initiatives Alongside UNFCCC-linked REDD+ finance, many forest-carbon projects described as "REDD+" have been developed for the voluntary carbon market.
Legislation supporting RGGI In response to and in tandem with opposing legislation, two companion bills were introduced in the 2021–2022 Legislative Session, detailing the appropriation of RGGI auction proceeds to areas of need.
Shenzhen was the first pilot to launch, on June 18, 2013, and was soon followed by the other designated pilots, which all completed their first compliance period by June 2015.
The tax was to be imposed on energy producers starting October 1, 2007, with revenue collected used for energy-efficiency programs including public transit.
Provide assistance for developing nations to build capacity to fully participate in the carbon markets, and to evaluate the ecosystem services their forests provide.
The calculator divided the total amount of the chosen country's CO2 emissions by the number of its citizens.
On The Move: SDC Annual Review 2005 – proposal by the UK Sustainable Development Commission for the UK Government to undertake a full-scale pilot and risk assessment of introducing personal carbon trading for individuals and small businesses.
A JI project might involve, for example, replacing a coal-fired power plant with a more efficient combined heat and power plant.
In June 2007, the company raised an additional €150 million to expand into new markets, with Credit Suisse becoming a major investor.
In 2004, a consortium of the livestock industry agreed to pay for a portion of this research (just not via taxation), and the government reserved the right to reconsider the tax if they or the industry withdrew from the agreement.
In 2016, AIR-INK products were given to graphic artists in Hong Kong, which is known for its high air pollution, who were requested to paint murals.
CDR involves techniques to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and is generally considered a form of climate change mitigation.
The decals include the URL of a page on the Ontario government's website that explains its position on the tax, but they do not mention the rebate program.
PATT works to raise awareness of global environmental issues, campaign for better environmental practices and take action against deforestation and climate change by planting trees.
ICVCM publishes registry tagging guidance and an assurance manual describing oversight arrangements for CCP-Eligible programs, and it publishes assessment status information as part of its process transparency.
Launched in 2009, PopOffsets was the first and only carbon offsetting scheme worldwide investing its funds in rights-based family planning schemes, health programs, relationship and sex education.
No further action was taken, as leadership in several of the states switched positions on climate policy.
The Lofoten Declaration also helped mobilize efforts for a global treaty on a managed decline of fossil fuel production, such as the Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty Initiative.
Financial impact Whether carbon capture and storage technology is adopted worldwide will "...depend less on science than on economics.
In April 2016, The Climate Mobilization organized a "die-in" outside the United Nations building in New York City during the signing of the COP 21 Paris Agreement, meant to protest what the group called the agreement's inadequacy in relation to the scale of the threat of climate change.
The articles referred to above also contain policy measures proposed by governments and commentators to address some of these criticisms.
Copenhagen Climate Conference (December 2009) The Copenhagen Climate Conference did not produce the global agreement envisaged in the Bali Road Map.
Many countries have set dates to stop selling petrol and diesel cars and trucks, but a timetable to stop burning fossil gas has not yet been agreed.
Include tropical forest and land use carbon credits in the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme, while maintaining strong incentives to reduce industrial emissions.
The facility was designed as a partnership to help developing countries prepare for a future system of incentives to reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, combining readiness support with a results-based finance window.
The regulations apply to about 100 large facilities which emit more than 100,000 tonnes of greenhouse gases a year.
Climate Action Plan 2050 The official Climate Action Plan 2050 is available in German and runs to 91 pages.
Rajendra Pachauri, chairman of the IPCC, said the necessary investment in renewables would cost only about 1% of global GDP annually.
Readiness activities may be supported through a delivery-partner model, in which partner institutions assist countries in implementing readiness work under the facility’s operational and reporting arrangements.
Signatories to the memorandum are asked to submit a plan to meet the target reduction of green house gas emissions by 2 metric tons per capita by 2050.
The plan would have supported the conservation of land and water resources and developed actionable climate science, and encouraged other countries to take action to address climate change, including reducing deforestation and lowering subsidies that increase the use of fossil fuels.
A cap is set by the government which defines the maximum level of total emissions permitted during a certain time period.
He further underscored the complexities and nuances of REDD+ and offered COONAPIP's contribution to national REDD+ efforts.
Additionally, Blue Carbon has done deals covering 10% of Liberia, 10% of Zambia, 8% of Tanzania (which also signed a deal handing 5.9 million acres to a similar company GreenCop Development), the Bahamas, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Saint Lucia, Dominica, Comoros, Pakistan and Kenya.
A price of $2/kg is considered by many to be a potential tipping point that would make green hydrogen competitive against grey hydrogen.
A large goal of Cool Earth is to promote economic prosperity through green technology and to encourage political stability domestically and internationally.
Carbon capture from ambient air is more costly, at between $94 and $232 per ton and is considered impractical for fuel synthesis or carbon sequestration.
These include excess profits generated by CDM projects designed to reduce emissions of industrial gases, adverse effects of projects on local communities, and the failure of the CDM to promote development in the poorest regions of the world.
After limiting the access of cars to the city center in Madrid, nitrogen oxide levels fell by 38% and carbon dioxide fell by 14.2% in the city center.
Cap-and-trade schemes are programs under which member companies commit to lowering their greenhouse gas emissions by a certain amount in a certain period of time and trade carbon credits generated by this.
The inspections also look for any faults in the system and check that the system is properly maintained.
The Turkish Emissions Trading System is the carbon emission trading system for greenhouse gas emissions by Turkey, which is supposed to start in Q3 2026, with a pilot phase including industries such as cement.
Ember, formerly Sandbag, is an independent global energy think tank that uses data and policy to accelerate the clean energy transition.
Romm, New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman, writer Naomi Klein, and climate activist Bill McKibben have called for governmental climate action on the scale of the World War II mobilization to rapidly reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
For example, a 2008 reforestation project in Phetchaburi, Thailand, brought together schoolchildren, monks, governmental officers, and local villagers with forestation staff in planting over 2500 trees.
However, she also indicated that she would not introduce carbon pricing until there was a sufficient consensus on the issue, that any carbon price legislated would not come into effect until after the 2013 election, and she specifically ruled out the introduction of a "carbon tax".
In a 2015 Maclean's article, economist Trevor Tombe wrote that "[p]ricing carbon is one of the most sensible policy prescriptions to address greenhouse gas emissions".
White House staff members who were directly tasked with the implementation of the plan included Heather Zichal and Michelle Patron.
The actual meaning of the principle has been heavily argued since the signing of Kyoto Protocol in 1997.
Ultimately it is hoped that degraded land in these communities will be reforested and climate change lessened through the project, while at the same time village economies are enhanced.
Among the biofuels the use of bioethanol and biodiesel is already established to some extent in some countries.
Climate Defiance is supported by Margaret Klein Salamon's Climate Emergency Fund, which provides about half of Climate Defiance's budget.
He lectured on aviation operations and management for Golden Gate University, and on aeronautics at Sierra Academy of Aeronautics, a school for professional pilots.
James Card (October 25, 1915 – January 16, 2000) was an American film preservationist who established the motion picture collection at George Eastman House, one of the major moving image archives in the United States.
Günther Theischinger (born 21 February 1940) is an Austrian entomologist who has specialized in dragonflies (Odonata) and other aquatic insects.
The exhibition used performance, photography, collage, video and sound installation to explore biomythography and non-traditional archiving.
In 2016 the English-language portal "The Culture Trip" included her in the list of "8 most influential women in Central Asian and Caucasian art".
He became a father figure to Marceline, protecting her from mutants and gifting her the stuffed animal Hambo, which became her most prized possession.
In 2019, Kholeif co-curated the 14th Sharjah Biennial: Leaving the Echo Chamber with curators, Zoe Butt and Claire Tancons.
After leaving junior high school in 1944, Karwemera enrolled at Nyakasura Vernacular Teacher Training College qualifying as a teacher of vernacular.
Malraux eventually reinstated Langlois after intense debate on 22 April, while reducing museum funding.
Art Gallery of Ontario Nanibush began work at the Art Gallery of Ontario in 2016 as an assistant curator of Canadian and Indigenous Art in the department of Canadian art.
The suppression and attempted erasure of many Indigenous languages is tied to settler colonial practices of assimilation of Indigenous peoples.
In 2011, Uranchimeg curated Modern Mongolia: From Steppe to Urban Dynamics, an exhibition of more than twenty, contemporary Mongolian artists at Hanart TZ Gallery in Hong Kong.
He was the former editor-in-chief of A Magazine Curated By and has served as a features editor of SSAW and Arena Homme + and has contributed to publications such Another, Architectural Digest, The Business of Fashion, Interview, New York Magazine The Cut, L'Uomo Vogue, Vogue, and Wallpaper.
Ongoing funding is uncertain as CSHD must compete with larger demining NGOs such as Mines Advisory Group and Halo Trust.
Awards and honors Ledoux received the Erasmus Prize, a Dutch award for contributions to art in 1988.
Edgardo Cozarinsky's 1994 documentary Citizen Langlois is an essayistic biography showing Langlois' progress from amateur collector to nouvelle vague hero and friend of the stars.
Her latest work, Piniartorsuit kinguaavi, was also nominated for the Nordic Council prize in 2013, though she lost to the Danish-Norwegian author Kim Leine.
In addition to selecting works, the curator is often responsible for writing labels, catalog essays, and other content supporting exhibitions.
The family settled in Yokohama when she was 12 and she entered the Ferris Girls' School, to study the English language.
He studied at Universidad Central de Venezuela, New School University, and holds a Master's in Interactive Telecommunications from New York University.
Njabala Foundation Kazungu founded the Njabala Foundation, a nonprofit organization that promotes the visibility of women artists through exhibitions, research initiatives, residencies, and mentorship programmes.
Hogue was recognized for her curatorial work in 2019 with an Award for Emerging Curator of Contemporary Canadian Art by the Hnatyshyn Foundation.
Countess Anna Sarah Maria Brigitte Elisabeth Lily Henckel von Donnersmarck (born 6 March 1973), known professionally as Anna Henckel-Donnersmarck, is a German filmmaker and film curator.
He received first prize for the "largest and best collection of stuffed birds and quadrupeds of Nova Scotia, with popular and scientific names".
Kashiko Kawakita introduced him to Yasujirō Ozu and was his sponsor when he applied for permanent residency in Japan.
from the University of Chicago, and attended the Whitney Museum Independent Study Program from 2002 to 2003.
In 2023, upon seeing his work on view in the National Gallery of Canada due to his Governor General's Award, he said that Métis art was lacking in the building and asked that the Métis should have more representation.
One of his artistic creations is the Black Box, a time capsule in the form of a book which documents over 25 years of "Plexus International" artistic activity.
Titles in the series follow the player character as they live in a village populated by anthropomorphic animals, with gameplay that proceeds in a nonlinear fashion and in-game events that occur in real-time.
you see him suffering as a consequence of the murders he has committed and that is when [his] humanity comes through.
Since 1994, he has been the curator of the Dead Sea Scrolls collection and the director of the Shrine of the Book at the Israel Museum, where he promoted the platform that displays the scrolls online for the world.
Early life and education Isaac is of Ojibway and British descent and is a member of Sagkeeng First Nation.
Silversword attacks Superboy and Green Lantern, and before they can react, seemingly pushes them to their deaths into a volcano.
Biography Garneau was born in Edmonton, Alberta and having a mother who was an artist, always made art.
The Alexandrian Project aimed to build a new main library building using computers and electronic resources more than books.
She co-curated the exhibition Making Doha 1950-2030 at the National Museum of Qatar, which used archival material, oral history and photographs to explore the architectural history of the city.
In 2013 she published a book titled The Legacies of Jean-Luc Godard (WLU Press) along with Douglas Morrey and Nicole Cote.
John Eni-Ibukun (born 13 June 1997), also known as June Sometimes, is a Nigerian artist, writer, and the Head of Curation for Afrobeats and African Gospel at Audiomack.
While Archives 2.0 may refer to implementing new technologies, it is also a way of engaging with archives in an effort to promote openness and flexibility of archival materials.
Works Among his published books, A Day At Qumran: The Dead Sea Sect and Its Scrolls, published by The Israel Museum, Jerusalem (1998), stands out.
He served as the Asia bureau chief for THR until August 2013, when Clifford Coonan took over the role, and became a senior film reviewer for THR.
Significant works of translation include Vinterbørn by Dea Trier Mørch and Århundradets kärlekssaga by Märta Tikkanen.
The work of Stojanova is mainly focused on Canadian multicultural cinema, Eastern European cinema and German cinema during the war.
Some of these include Móvil, an exhibition and performance by Guatemalan artist Regina José Galindo at the Museo de Arte Contemporáneo (MUAC) and UNAM’s independence bi-centenary celebration project: The Ghost of Liberty, México 2010.
Graduates with PhDs usually become teaching faculty in schools of library and information science, or sometimes occupy the directorship or deanship of university libraries.
She has curated several art exhibitions in Bangalore, India and has worked with pioneering artists like S.G.Vasudev , Yusuf Arakkal and Balan Nambiar [2].
Barakat's artwork is found in museum collections, including at the British Museum in London; Umm al-Fahm Art Gallery in Umm al-Fahm, Israel; and the Jordan National Gallery of Fine Arts in Amman.
Hagemeyer also constructed a manual of resources for Deaf people and those associated with them called The Red Notebook, which is now online at the website of the Friends of Libraries for Deaf Action.
Yefimovich co-founded "The Archive Magazine," an Israeli platform dedicated to promoting and showcasing documentary photography.
Paramesh Krishnan Nair (6 April 1933 – 4 March 2016) was an Indian film archivist and film scholar, who was the founder and director of the National Film Archive of India (NFAI) in 1964.
She is thus closest to Terry Smith’s contemporaneous insistence on the intellectual seriousness of art criticism, requiring attention to structure, temporality, and contexts of meaning in modern and postmodern art, though she is less theoretical, meta-critical or programmatic than Smith.
Givanni has served on film juries at African film festivals such as FESPACO (from 1985), Zanzibar Festival of the Dhow Countries, the All Africa Film Awards in South Africa, the JCCarthage and others.
Education Redler-Hawes has a degree in Fine art Painting from Norwich University of the Arts 1989 - 1991 and a second degree in Curating from the Royal College of Art 1994 - 1996.
The inaugural award was bestowed on Margaret Myers, Director, Office of Library Personnel Resources of the American Library Association in 1984.
As Barry spent the war years going to the cinema, when she wrote her book Let's go to the pictures (1926), she explicitly stated: "Going to the pictures is nothing to be ashamed of" (p.
She has been working with new media, performance, and interdisciplinary arts for more than 30 years.
Crandall and his team rode out a storm for six days before they were rescued, and he arrived back in New York after a 44-day voyage, having not lost a single specimen.
DE librarians also assist faculty with designing course-specific web-pages and provide copyright advisement.
Dixon left Carnegie Museum of Art in 1975, and William Judson, a film professor at the University of Pittsburgh, succeeded her as curator.
Career Artwork Rafiee embarked on her career as an artist in 2001, when she participated in a group exhibition in Tehran.
He appears in the video game Indiana Jones and the Infernal Machine (1999) in the secret level "Return to Peru", where Indiana returns to the same temple and finds the second idol.
His paleontological research led to his work on the fossil birds Palaeochenoides mioceanus and Nesotrochis debooyi.
While editor of The American Archivist she emphasized technical rather than scholarly issues, believing that archival records were useful in ways other than scholarly research.
Black Radical Imagination Black Radical Imagination is an international film program founded by Erin Christovale and Amir George.
Dennis Lim is a New York-based film curator and critic who has served as the artistic director of the New York Film Festival, since 2020.
Early life and education Âhasiw Maskêgon-Iskwêw (Donald Ghostkeeper) was born in 1958 in McLennan, Alberta.
Biography Born in Portsmouth, in Saint John Parish, Dominica, Lennox Honychurch can trace his lineage in the Caribbean back to the 1790s.
Adrian Stimson: Maanipokaa'iini at Remai Modern (April 2 to September 4, 2022) was the first survey exhibition of this Siksika Nation artist, and was accompanied by a monograph publication.
On Gadot's casting as Wonder Woman, Snyder said "Wonder Woman is arguably one of the most powerful female characters of all time and a fan favorite in the DC Universe.
In 2002, she co-founded the Master's Program in Curatorial Practice at the California College of the Arts (CCA) in San Francisco, the first program of its kind on the West Coast.
Pele's attack devastates much of the countryside and brings harm to many Hawaiians, making Silversword realize how evil the goddess is.
Between 2019 and 2023, she was an associate professor of Indigenous art history at Concordia University in Montreal, Quebec, where she held the University Research Chair in Indigenous Circumpolar Arts.
He has written a book about the work of South Korean filmmaker Hong Sang-soo, which was published in 2022, and a book on David Lynch, published in 2015.
He attended school in Willowmore until the age of 13, completed his primary education at Wesbank Primary School in Oudtshoorn, and later moved with his family to Uniondale, where he attended Uniondale High School from 2000 onward.
Doctor O's inner world was left to bare in a collaboration with Turner-prize nominated artist, Heather Phillipson, entitled, My Life in the Metaverse.
Her work also extends to festival direction, workshops, and conferences speaking on Ugandan arts and heritage.
In November 1948, Card joined the staff of the newly created George Eastman House with the initial title of "assistant to the curator", who was Beaumont Newhall.
Curatorial and arts administration Maskêgon-Iskwêw maintained an active curatorial practice across Canada.
The exhibition received an Award for Excellence from the Association of Art Museum Curators in 2023.
Biography Daina graduated with a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree from Emily Carr Institute of Art and Design (ECUAD) in 2003 and gained an MA Critical and Curatorial Studies from the University of British Columbia in 2012.
Archivists process the records physically by placing them in acid-free folders and boxes to ensure their long-term survival.
1959 The Wonderful World of the Air (Garden City Books) 1960 Nature: Earth, Plants, Animals (Macdonald) with Julian Huxley.
In 2018, Igloliorte was also appointed curatorial lead for the inaugural exhibition at the Inuit Art Centre at the Winnipeg Art Gallery.
In June 2017, he was awarded an honorary doctorate in literature by Kabale University for promoting culture.
Elvira Espejo Ayca (born 1981) is an Indigenous Bolivian artist, poet, and the director of the National Museum of Ethnography and Folklore in La Paz until 2020.
In 1955, Card discovered Louise Brooks living as a recluse in New York City and persuaded her to move to Rochester, New York, to be near the George Eastman House.
Wetmore is commemorated in the scientific names of one species and two subspecies of reptiles: Pholidoscelis wetmorei, Uromacer frenatus wetmorei, and Anolis brevirostris wetmorei.
This stewardship is usually outside the acceptance of authority figures, hence the guerrilla or underground nature of the action taken.
Selected curatorial projects Located in the Downtown Eastside of Vancouver, British Columbia, Hogue co-founded Gam Gallery in 2009, an exhibition space and artist studio that operated until 2019.
In the 2022 New Year Honours, Māhina-Tuai was appointed a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to cultures and the arts.
The Collector re-appeared when the Avengers fought Thane Ector and the Brethren, who were noted to have escaped from the Collector's collection.
This prestigious grande école (literally, "grand schools") offers a diploma in "Archivist-Paleography", created in 1849, after a three-year curriculum.
References External links ArCHIAM: Decoration and Construction of Omani Traditional Architecture National Museum (Oman): Our Staff YouTube: Magan and Copper - National Museum of Oman
During this period Barakat began to work with materials such as local clay (and he added hay for consistency), wood and fire.
He appears in the second half of the episode Young Indiana Jones and the Curse of the Jackal (later edited into the second half of the film Spring Break Adventure), where he encounters a 16-year-old Indiana Jones in Mexico.
As a result, the following year, he was appointed a professor at the new Princely Academy of Saint Sava in Bucharest.
In 2024, she was a speaker for the exhibition GAUGUIN’S WORLD: Tōna Iho, Tōna Ao at the National Gallery of Australia (Canberra), in connection with the Savage Klub and its founder Rosanna Raymond, and supported the participation of Tahitian artist Tahe Drollet.
"The Latin American Spirit: Art and Artists in the United States" (Co-written), English, also available in Spanish, Bronx Museum of the Arts/Harry Abrams, New York, U.S.A., 1989.
The same year, Christensen also developed a short film series to tell the stories of small rural communities across southern Alberta and Saskatchewan, The Grasslands Project.
In 2015, Christensen produced Guy Maddin and Evan Johnson's feature, The Forbidden Room, and the feature documentary Hadwin's Judgement, based in part on John Vaillant's book The Golden Spruce about Grant Hadwin.
Stirbei donated two paintings from his own collection to start the gallery; one by Gheorghe Tattarescu, who was studying in Rome, and one by Petre Alexandrescu.
She previously studied for a BA degree in Heritage and Cultural Studies from Curtin University (formally known as Western Australian Institute of Technology) in Perth.
Here, Kholeif was "charged with overseeing the foundation's acquisition strategy, developing exhibitions and other programming, and securing international partnerships".
The first consecutive screenings took place in 2013 in Los Angeles, New York, and Chicago between Feb-May.
He noted the need for Wikipedia to strengthen partnerships with museums to create the most up-to-date and accurate information, saying "we are doing the same thing for the same reason, for the same people, in the same medium.
Paradoxically, these final works are bolder, more confident, broader, than anything Klee had done before.
Several taxa of birds have been named in his honor, including the Cretaceous genus Alexornis and the tanagers Wetmorethraupis sterrhopteron and Buthraupis wetmorei.
Designed as a playspace for children, its design was inspired by modernist buildings in the country, including Qatar Post, Qatar University, the Sheraton Grand Doha Resort & Convention Hotel, Qatar National Theatre and the Qatar Ministry of Information building.
He later attended Joseph Ayo Babalola University, Osun State, where he completed his tertiary education, graduating in November 2024.
Silversword joins Superboy and Green Lantern and attacks Pele, but is badly damaged by her lava attacks.
In this way, Martín created a process where Mexican artistic production gradually began to be intertwined with the international art scene.
His father, Arturo Angel Vallejo, was manager of the Pan American Life Insurance Company in Medellin, Colombia.
As an art curator and impresario, he is the founder of Plexus International, an international cooperative arts organizations whose participants have included Butch Morris, Lorenzo Pace, Miguel Algarin, William Parker, Shalom Neuman, and Stephen DiLauro.
After receiving an Aboriginal Curatorial Collective Residency to work with grunt gallery in Vancouver, British Columbia in 2000, Daina remained at the gallery as associate curator and administrator until 2009.
References External links David Christensen at IMDb War Hospital at the National Film Board of Canada
Sandro Dernini (born 1949 in Cagliari, Sardinia, Italy) is an Italian visual artist, curator, and biochemist.
Nanibush has been an active community organizer participating in demonstrations against the Iraq War and uranium processing, and raising awareness about the relationship between racism and lack of education.
From 2016 to 2018 he was the director of The Palestinian Museum in Birzeit (25 km north of Jerusalem), which was officially inaugurated in May 2016.
Career Throughout 2003 Ooi worked on a number of regional projects in various capacities with institutions and galleries in Southeast Asia focusing mainly on Malaysian, Indonesian and Filipino contemporary art.
As part of the role, Nanibush created a new Indigenous Curator position and co heads the department with Georgiana Uhlyarik, the curator of Canadian Art.
However, some concerns have always intrigued me, and those are related to man's behavior, socio-culturally speaking...I think people can see that as a constant in my work throughout the many—and sometimes different stages...
During her tenure, as a consequence of the Sudanese Civil War, objects from the collections of the National Museum of Sudan were stolen, and some were found being sold on at the border with, and within, South Sudan.
He wrote, among others, for The Village Voice, Vice, Variety, Vanity Fair, LA Weekly, Indiewire, Filmmaker Magazine, GreenCine Daily (editor from 2009 to 2013), and Spin.
In other media Television The Collector appears in Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H., voiced by Jeff Bennett.
Li was among the Hong Kong film critics who signed Edward Yang's Taiwan Film Manifesto, which marked the beginning of the Taiwan New Cinema.
The exhibition, co-sponsored by the Metropolitan Museum and the City Center of Music and Drama in New York, showed seventy films dating from the medium's first seventy-five years on thirty-five consecutive evenings from July 29 to September 3, 1970.
He was approached by the princess of the Tengu world Nyotengu, proving his might as a man who ended Bankotsubo’s crime, sparring her and tells her to leave human world, satisfying her as well.
Baduarius (Greek: Βαδουάριος) is a figure of 6th century Constantinople, known only from a single inscription in an epitaph.
In 2001, he translated American film theorist David Bordwell's Planet Hong Kong: Popular Cinema and the Art of Entertainment into Chinese, after the two had befriended each other in 1995 during Bordwell's visit to the HKIFF.
Their editorial suggested that physicians should be delegating their information needs to informationists, just as they currently order CT scans from radiologists or cardiac catheterizations from cardiologists.
In 2017, Nanibush and Georgiana Uhlyarik renamed the department of Canadian Art, the department of Indigenous and Canadian Art, and developed a new nation to nation model of sharing power.
A public appeal allowed the seabird island of Copinsay, Orkney, to be purchased as a permanent nature reserve dedicated to his name.
Together with Hammer Museum senior curator Anne Ellegood, Christovale curated the museum's fourth Made in L.A.
From the museum's inception until his retirement in 1977, Card built the collection and gave it an international identity.
Because she experienced for herself how women were disadvantaged in the archive profession, she encouraged women through publications in De Hollandsche Lelie not to be inferior to men in terms of education, because she had noticed that in cases of equal suitability men were often given preference.
Pharmaceutical/Neutraceutical Industry In 2001, Subramanian co-founded DESA India, a Supply Chain Management company in Pharmaceutical Chemicals in Bangalore, India.
Notes References "James Card; Telluride Film Festival Co-Founder", Los Angeles Times, January 21, 2000.
In 2022 he worked as an A&R and creative contributor on Yamen Yamen, a collective music album released by Drummr Africa, which involved artists from multiple African countries.
Hogue co-organized the touring exhibition, #callresponse with Maria Hupfield and Tania Willard, which was first held at grunt gallery in 2016.
Her work frequently explores themes of identity, gender representation, social transformation, and cultural memory.
A chance conversation with his class president, the nephew of the Treasurer of the New York Zoological Society (now the Wildlife Conservation Society), led to an interview with Director of the New York Zoological Park (now the Bronx Zoo), William T.
Legacy Karwemera founded the Bakiga Cultural Museum in Kabale (sometimes referred to as The Home of Edirisa Museum or locally Akehongo Kabaana Ba Karwemera (Karwemera's Children's Hiding Place)).
2016 – Unceded Territories: Lawrence Paul Yuxweluptun, the Museum of Anthropology at UBC (as a co-curator) 2016 – Nanitch: Early Photographs of British Columbia from the Langmann Collection (as co-curator), Presentation House Gallery, renamed The Polygon Gallery, North Vancouver, Canada.
With Leach Decter, "(official denial) trade value in progress: Unsettling Narratives" in Reconcile This!
At the age of fourteen, she wanted to be a chef and as she grew up her interests shifted to designing furniture.
She is a member of the House of Henckel von Donnersmarck, an Austro-German noble family that once owned large estates in Silesia.
Jepchumba graduated with a degree in Critical Social Thinking, and later completed a Masters in Digital Media at the London Metropolitan University.
Prior to that, she served as Director of the City of New York Department of Cultural Affairs Percent for Art Program (2008–2014) and Associate Dean of the School of Art, The Cooper Union.
From 2007 to 2019, Henckel-Donnersmarck served as a member of the Berlin International Film Festival's Berlinale Shorts selection committee.
After working for two decades in private industry, he joined CSIRO to oversee aquatic insect collections and later assisted the NSW Environmental Protection Authority with invertebrate identification.
In 2016, he curated a documentary screening series on the People's Socialist Republic of Albania for the Cinéma du Réel at the Centre Pompidou in Paris, France.
King Charles V of France began his own library, and he kept his collection as a bibliophile, an attribute that is closely connected to librarians of this time.
Her maternal grandmother is from Derry, while her Palestinian father was born in the village of Delhamiya.
Research and publications Books Koon is best known for her monograph on Japanese artist Yoshitomo Nara, published by Phaidon Press in 2020.
During her time there, she significantly expanded the organization's international reach and founded the Curatorial Intensive, the first short-term professional training program for curators.
His recent productions also include Everything Will Be, a 2014 documentary film about the fate of Vancouver's Chinatown, for which he approached Vancouver filmmaker Julia Kwan to direct her first non-fiction film.
She presents the Whitney as both a powerful institutional arbiter and a focus of ritualised criticism, comparable in role, if not magnitude, to the Sydney Biennale.
MoMA PS1 and Hearthland Foundation (2019–present) In 2019, Fowle succeeded Klaus Biesenbach as the director of MoMA PS1 in Queens, New York.
She designs short film video installations for exhibitions and concerts and worked as a lecturer on film theory and video practice.
(Film Threat) gave a similarly positive review, calling it "a wistful, thought-provoking rumination on the cost of progress." Hillis is one of the programmers at Cucalorus Film Festival (in Wilmington, North Carolina), where he curates the "Convulsions" genre program since 2013.
The Travel Sheet made it possible for filmmakers to book additional screenings and in-person presentations, which became primary sources of income, exposure, and dialogue for artists during this early period of new media's institutionalization.
Career Māhina-Tuai's research focuses on the history of Tongan crafts, in particular textiles, and her research is based on the primary importance of Tongan indigenous knowledge.
His paintings have been used in many books about the Titanic, most notably his depictions of the sinking, of which no photographs that could be used were taken.
He was curator of Canadian art at the Art Gallery of Ontario from 2004 until 2012, when he was succeeded by Andrew Hunter.
To prepare for the embedded informationist role, librarians are undertaking education as needed to supplement their backgrounds.
Holloway does insist on the politically and culturally radical properties of particular postmodern artistic practices, but these remain, not coincidentally, the practices of an engaged feminist art.
"Ron was the one who was crucial to allow the project to start, and the rest is history," said Lorraine Slater, executive director of the "Gorilla Foundation of Woodside" and http://www.koko.org.
Artwork McMaster draws and paints with humour and an ironic juxtaposition of traditional and contemporary pop culture elements.
Nanibush has a long-standing relationship with Anishinaabe multimedia artist Rebecca Belmore and has curated a series of shows featuring her work including KWE: Photography, Sculpture, Video and Performance by Rebecca Belmore (2014) at the Justina M.
Protesters in Paris included the student activist Daniel Cohn-Bendit from University of Nanterre-Paris.
Moira Zeta Enetama is a Niuean curator and cultural activist, who, as of 2021, was acting director of the Ministry of Social Services in Niue.
She also worked for many years as a curator at the Greenland National Museum, serving as director from 1982 until her retirement in 2004.
In recognition of her work, she was invited to participate in the project 9 Curators, organized by Gerardo Mosquera and the Spanish Cultural Centers in Argentina and Chile.
During the COVID-19 pandemic, Tsui introduced a remastered classics screening program at the Cinematheque.
Before becoming Director Asia for Art Basel, Ooi worked as Art Basel's VIP Relations Manager for Southeast Asia, covering Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam for two years.
In 2012, Celluloid Man, an award-winning documentary was made on his life and works, by Shivendra Singh Dungarpur.
Her Amerasinghe Ganendra Collection of Modern and Contemporary Art includes extensive holdings of Sri Lankan and Malaysian works, including one of the largest private collections of artworks by the Sri Lankan Group of '43 (Modernists).
The ABA also requires a library's collection to meet the academic needs of the students and research and teaching needs of the faculty.
When Felix was 16, his father allowed him to take art courses at the Institute of Fine Arts of Medellin, which he paid for (during this time, Felix was still in High School).
Between December 2008 and March 2010, the Migraciones: Mirando al Sur exhibit traveled through Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Mexico, United States of America, and Costa Rica—showing at the Spanish Cultural Centers of each country.
References External links Official website Ken Marschall at IMDb Artist Biography Archived 2016-06-12 at the Wayback Machine
External links ALIA: Careers in Library and Information Management Archived 2021-11-22 at the Wayback Machine U.S.
Beginning in the 1960s, he collaborated with Tony Watson on the taxonomy and ecology of Australian dragonflies, particularly their value as environmental indicators.
Conservation work Conradie has participated in several projects under the EDGE of Existence Programme of the Zoological Society of London.
In the film, Short Round is frequently heard speaking Cantonese (despite being born in Wu-speaking Shanghai), as well as English.
In 2009 the United States Department of State, Office of Weapons Removal and Abatement granted the Landmine Relief Fund US$100,000 to help CSHD in their work to clear ERW (explosive remnants of war) in "low priority villages" in Cambodia.
The sculptural installation consists of a ceremonial cape, photographs, and materials such as Lauhala, coconut hull fiber, seagrass, red cedar bark, wool, abalone shell, and mother of pearl buttons that are used by makers from the Sḵwx̱wú7mesh (Squamish) and Hawaiian territories.
Career Henckel-Donnersmarck worked as a film programmer and presenter at Stuttgarter Filmwinter, Kasseler Dokfest, Zebra Poetry Film Festival, Pictoplasma, Internationales Animationfilm-Festival Stuttgart, the Szpilman Award, and Filmfest Dresden.
2006 - “About feminist art and socially, politically engaged art,” seminar at the Institute of Human Rights and Democracy (IHRD), Yerevan.
Kolokesa Uafā Māhina-Tuai is a Tongan curator and writer, whose work explores the role of craft in Tongan society.
Wasson elaborates on MoMA's Film Library's effort to create modern audience for art cinema by employing overt disciplinary strategies.
She was the curator of the 15th Sharjah Biennial in 2023, titled "Thinking Historically in the Present" which was originally to be curated by the late Okwui Enwezor.
Ken Marschall (born October 28, 1950) is an American painter and illustrator notable for his paintings of famous ocean liners, such as the RMS Titanic, RMS Lusitania, and HMHS Britannic, and other transportation vessels including the Bismarck, LZ 127 Graf Zeppelin and LZ 129 Hindenburg.
He obtained his PhD from the School of Education of New York University and his doctorate in biology from the University of Cagliari in Italy.
She is the author of numerous monographs and critical texts for publications, catalogs, and art books.
Art career Merhi has produced a variety of works that engage electronic circuits, computers, video game systems, touch screens, and other devices in the presentation of his written words.
Casa Wabi Foundation In 2014, Martín conceived the program under which Fundación Casa Wabi operates.
The Collector makes a cameo appearance in the mid-credits scene of Thor: The Dark World (2013), in which Sif and Volstagg give the Aether to him for safekeeping as they feel it is too dangerous to have it near the Tesseract since both contain Infinity Stones.
Al Qasimi was named the most influential person in the contemporary art world in 2024, according to ArtReview’s Power 100 list.
Also an artist and a curator, he was largely responsible for compiling the exhibit information for The Dominica Museum in Roseau.
POYI (Picture of the Year International): Award of Excellence for Spot News and Finalist Award for impact (Gaza-Israel).
Sally and John Dixon divorced and she married her second husband, physicist Ricardo Bloch, who later became a photographer.
His film screenings in Paris in the 1950s are often credited with providing the ideas that led to the development of the auteur theory.
Warren was elected as one of four Indigenous women curators as part of 2015 Asia-Pacific Visual Arts Delegation to participate in the First Nations Curators Exchange an International Visitors Program of the 8th Asia-Pacific Trienniale (APT8) in Brisbane, Australia.
The intent is to protect Indigenous knowledge and works from being exploited or appropriated within other media or by cultural institutions.
In 2020, he edited and published Echoes of Cinematic Dreams: The Surviving Records of Wong Ain-ling, an essay collection about the works of film scholar Wong Ain-ling.
Awards He has won awards for curating in Sydney, Australia, as well as for mentorship and Métis art in Saskatchewan.
Many different types, sizes, and collections are found in academic libraries and some academic librarians are specialists in these collections and archives.
The son of Susana and Manuel Roitman, a native of San Juan from the town of General San Martín, Roitman was born and raised in the Jewish community of the Buenos Aires neighborhood of La Paternal, and studied at the University of Buenos Aires.
He has also said that his team focuses on nonfiction, watching and tracking film projects that can be accessible and connective, and draw in different audiences.
Let's do it together." The Children's Museum of Indianapolis became involved with the program after Wikipedian Lori Phillips volunteered for a GLAM event in 2010, becoming the second Wikipedian in residence.
From 2015 to 2023, she served as Director Asia for Art Basel’s show in Hong Kong and as a member of Art Basel's executive committee.
She helped open FIFO to other Pacific festivals (Australia, New Zealand, New Caledonia, Hawaiʻi) by supporting the PADISA framework.
In 2011, she commissioned one of Malaysia's earliest green buildings, the award-winning Gallery Residence (also known as the Ganendra Art House).
She was formerly Chief Curator and Director of National Academician Affairs at the National Academy of Design (2021–2025) and Executive and Artistic Director of the Shelley and Donald Rubin Foundation (2014–2021).
His work, often characterized by an empathetic and observational style, has been featured by major news agencies and exhibited internationally.
In parallel, she curated several exhibitions, including the Polynesian representation at the Révélations art fair in Paris and “Maro‘ura, a Polynesian Treasure” at the Musée du Quai Branly – Jacques Chirac.
Marschall has also served as consultant to many works about the Titanic, including James Cameron's Ghosts of the Abyss, as well as Cameron's film of the same name, the two-part A&E television specials Death of a Dream and The Legend Lives On, and the video game Titanic: Honor and Glory.
Fatma Ibrahim Al Sehlawi, in Arabic: فاطمة إبراهيم السهلاوي, is an architect, artist, curator and businesswoman.
Education and background Uranchimeg Tsultem credits her father, Nyam-Osoryn Tsultem (1923–2001)—an artist, a scholar, and a founder of the Fine Arts Zanabazar Museum (1996)—for contributing to her interests in Buddhist and Mongolian modern art.
federal agencies have libraries and librarians who serve the legal research and other research needs of their employees and contractors, but these libraries are not open to the general public without an appointment.
She is the founder and director of Shalini Ganendra Advisory (SGA) and the initiator of Gallery Weekend Kuala Lumpur (GWKL) in 2016, a city-wide cultural event that provides exposure to regional art movements and cultural ecosystems.
In both 2003 and 2004 he was a facilitator at the annual Connecting Aboriginal Canadians Forum in Ottawa, presented by the Aboriginal Canada Portal Working Group.
Nissen: Erfaring, styrke – og håb, translated as Misilittagaqarneq, sapiissuseqalerneq, aamma neriunneq 1996: Maaliaaraq Vebæk: Navaranaaq og andre, translated as Navaranaaq allallu 1997: Jørgen F.
She graduated in Art History and Psychology from the University of Costa Rica, where she works as a researcher and teacher.
For this event, she curated a monographic exhibition of Margarita Azurdia, a fundamental Guatemalan artist from the 1960s.
"First of all, there just be facilities and staff—then you go on from there, to match what other zoos already are accomplishing" Reuther said in 1968.
He conducted extensive excavations, included more allusions to past rulers in his writings than most other kings, and is the earliest known person in history to attempt to chronologically date archaeological artifacts.
During her term, Rehuher-Marugg was successful in getting the Rock Islands Southern Lagoon recognised as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
The work was displayed in formats ranging from wall-to-wall projection to a small TV set, to "echo the sentiments of people in the midst of catastrophe," Christovale said.
Between 2006 and 2008, she worked as Curator and Program Director of Valentine Willie Fine Art gallery, Kuala Lumpur.
He used his experience at Saint Sava to acquire and organize the first collection of sculpture casts, based on the works of the old Italian Masters.
It became an enormous hit, after its success at the box office, the Kawakitas always travelled to Europe together to select films.
Eurogamer said that Ryu Hayabusa became a more notable character thanks to the presentation of the first NES Ninja Gaiden as its cutscenes elaborated more on him like links to a father figure and villains the hero often has to fight.
degree from at the Faculty of Fine Arts, Alexandria University (formerly Helwan University, Alexandria), he attended from 1978 to 1983.
public law libraries, with a collection at just under 1 million volumes, not including digital resources.
Hermine Christine Hélène Moquette (Sluis, 25 April 1869 – Bilthoven, 17 December 1945) was a Dutch historian and one of the first female archivists in the Netherlands.
She is the recipient of the Hnatyshyn Foundation Visual Arts Awards for Curatorial Excellence in Contemporary Art.
After the US Navy uses Kahoʻolawe, a remote and uninhabited part of Hawaii, for target practice, Silversword begins attacking Navy ships.
During her directorship of Taoga Niue, Cyclone Heta destroyed Huanaki Cultural Centre & Museum, a disaster that Enetama described as "devastating".
The exhibition Mongol Zurag: The Art of Resistance, which Uranchimeg curated in collaboration with the Mongol Zurag Society, showed at the Garibaldi Gallery in Venice, Italy from April 20-November 2024.
Other Ice King had a cameo appearance in Adventure Time: Distant Lands, a limited series based on Adventure Time.
Biography Early life and education Born in Tashkent in 1985, Umerova developed an early interest in the arts, supported by her family and education.
In 2015, she chaired the association organizing FIFO and became a technical advisor for communication and culture to the Minister of Culture, Environment and Communication, where she launched preliminary studies for the future cultural center of French Polynesia.
A guerrilla librarian is a person who may or may not be a professional librarian, but has otherwise taken up the stewardship of books or other material.
In Adventure Time: Fionna and Cake, Simon struggles to deal with the loss of Betty and to adjust to life in the magical world of Ooo now that he no longer has magical powers.
From 2015 to 2017, Isaac served as the Winnipeg Art Gallery's Aboriginal Curatorial Resident, a position funded by the Canada Council for the Arts.
Wyss's contribution was a 2018 work titled Shḵwen̓ Wéw̓ shḵem Nexw7iy̓ay̓ulh (To Explore, To Travel by Canoe).
Reception Adventure Time The character originally earned a mixed reception, with some critics considering him to be a one-dimensional villain.
Introduced in Animal Crossing: Wild World Animal Crossing: Wild World was released on the Nintendo DS in 2005.
resources and knowledge." Conversely, British journalist Andrew Orlowski criticized another advertised post as a waste of government funds.
The show featured works by 32 contemporary artists engaging with the concept of American citizenship, particularly in the context of the political climate surrounding the 2016 presidential election.
Nansubuga is an associate curator for Satellites-of-Art (SOA), an online platform connecting African, Latin American, and Middle Eastern artists with buyers in the Northern Hemisphere.
Early life and education John Eni-Ibukun was born on 13 June 1997 in Lagos, he hails from Oye Local Government Area in Ekiti State and was born and raised in Ikorodu, Lagos State.
Her publications include the edited volumes Remote Control: Dilemmas of Black Intervention in British Film and TV (1996) and Symbolic Narratives/African Cinema: Audiences, Theory and the Moving Image (2001).
Most law schools around the world have a law library, or in some universities, at least a section of the university library devoted to law.
Career Tsiokos had originally intended to become professor in film studies, but while in graduate school he interned at NewFest film festival and was later elevated to become artistic director within two years.
In 2011, her co-edited book with Béla Szabados titled Wittgenstein at the Movies: Cinematic Investigations was published by Lexington Books.
Kashiko Kawakita (川喜多かしこ, Kawakita Kashiko; March 21, 1908 - July 27, 1993) was a Japanese film producer and film curator, and the wife of Nagamasa Kawakita.
Jacques Ledoux (1921 – 6 June 1988) was a Polish-born Belgian cinema specialist, the first curator of the Royal Film Archive of Belgium (Cinémathèque royale de Belgique) from 1948 to 1988 and the founder of the Cinema Museum in Brussels (Musée du cinéma de Bruxelles) in 1962.
Hannah Redler-Hawes is a curator and consultant specialising in digital, AI and emerging media practices.
He previously worked as Editor-in-Chief at Drummr Africa, where he published editorial features on African musicians and creatives, including Tems, Yemi Alade, and Falana.
As an independent curator, her training has also allowed her to work on the topics of community museums, sustainability, collection research, exhibition curation, and curatorial accompaniment of artistic production.
References External links Interview with Willard Van Dyck and Margareta Akermark, 9 June 1972, Smithsonian Institution Archives
They conceived of an information professional who was embedded in (and indeed, supported by) the clinical departments.
2016 - “A Step Behind the Line,” solo exhibition of Ariadna Garcia Chas (Spain), Modern Art Museum, Yerevan, Armenia.
After moving to the Golan Heights when he was 8, they were displaced again during the Naksa; her father came to London in his 20s.
Bibliography Books by Félix Ángel: "Te Quiero Mucho Poquito Nada" (I Love You, I Love You Not), novel, Spanish, Félix Ángel, Medellin, 1974.
From 2010 to 2011 she curated the exhibition Nimamea’a: The fine arts of Tongan embroidery and crochet, which aimed to give prominence to the role that crochet in particular has in Tongan artistry.
Between 1994 and 2005, Maskêgon-Iskwêw administered the on-line Aboriginal media arts network Drumbeats to Drumbytes.
Ooi is the recipient of The Nippon Foundation’s Asian Public Intellectual (Junior) Fellowships Grant 2002/2003.
During this period, Ron continued to work on advancing the study of wildlife by establishing the Point Reyes Bird Observatory.
The same newspaper included Jepchumba in 2015 as one of the "10 Pioneering Names in Tech in Africa".
The book has been translated into Japanese (2023) and Korean (2022) and is considered the definitive scholarly work on the artist.
In June that year, Black Radical Imagination was invited to screen at Mickalene Thomas’s Art Bar Installation, Better Days in Basel, Switzerland.
His experience led him to the Dominion Exhibition in Halifax in 1881, where he acted as a committee member and juror.
The games introduce many of the series' core recurring characters, notably businessman Tom Nook, traveling musician K.K.
#callresponse (2016) Co-organized by Tarah Hogue, Maria Hupfield and Tania Willard, this exhibition addressed five projects commissioned by Indigenous artists based across Canada and the United States.
Agha narrated her first documentaries Atahualpa: Death of the Last Inca Emperor and Inside Britain's Secret Nuclear Bunker.
She was invited as a speaker to discuss performance art and video art in Guatemala at the event Performing Localities, organized by the Royal College of Art, London, 2009.
During her time as a curator, Rehuher-Marugg promoted Palauan culture to regional and international organisations including ICOMOS and UNESCO.
Selected works Sean Mallon, Kolokesa Mahina-Tuai and Damon Salesa (eds): Tangata o le Moana: New Zealand and the People of the Pacific.
An empty lot at 271 Union Street was transformed into a Pacific Northwest Coast rain forest garden containing flora representing the local biodiversity that can be found across the traditional and unceded lands of the Skwxwú7mesh (Squamish), Musqueam and Tsleil-Waututh Nations.
Adolfo Daniel Roitman (born June 13, 1957) is an archaeologist and expert in comparative religions of Argentinian and Israeli descent.
Travelling to Dublin, he participated in the International Exhibition of Arts and Manufactures in 1865, winning a bronze medal.
The organization was established partly to address gender inequality within Uganda’s contemporary art sector.
The game introduces Isabelle, a secretary at the town hall who has been described as a "fan-favorite" and a mascot of the Animal Crossing series.
As the first entu in six centuries, serving as the "human wife" of the moon-god Sin, Ennigaldi held large religious and political power.
In the Word Watch of April 1997, The Atlantic Monthly defined guerrilla librarianship as “the use of surreptitious measures by librarians determined to resist the large-scale 'deaccessioning' of rarely used books: 'A branch librarian ...
David Christensen is an Alberta film director and producer who since October 2007 has been an executive producer with the National Film Board of Canada (NFB) at its Northwest Centre, based in Edmonton.
He also worked as a programmer for the Hong Kong International Film Festival (HKIFF) since 1983, curating the Hong Kong Cinema Retrospective section.
Characters Introduced in Animal Forest and Animal Crossing Animal Forest (どうぶつの森, Dōbutsu no Mori) was released for the Nintendo 64 in 2001 exclusively in Japan.
In these positions, Umerova played a key role in promoting Uzbek historical and contemporary art internationally..
Curatorial work Beat Nation: Art Hip Hop and Aboriginal Culture Willard curated the exhibition project Beat Nation, which started as an online project for grunt gallery.
2013 – 2014 “Functions and Functionality of Participatory Art,” a series of lectures, BUKU (Bureau of Cultural Translations) Leipzig, Germany; GeoAIR Tbilisi, Georgia.
Ghalia Garelnabi Babiker (Arabic: غالية جار النبي) is an archaeologist and museum director from Sudan.
He subsequently became a physics teacher at PJ Oliver High School in Grahamstown and completed a Postgraduate Certificate in Education at Rhodes University in 2008.
Five artists and a curator from Iran), 2018, Castello Di Moferrato, Casale Monferrato, Italy Good Morning...
She graduated in June 1898, making her the third woman at that university to obtain a doctoral degree (the first was physician Aletta Jacobs in 1876).
In 1955, she moved to London for two years while her daughter, Kazuko Kawakita, studied there, and was popularly known as “Madame Kawakita”.
Denied the chance to repurchase his old land, he bought a new property in May 1869 at the North West Arm for $4,800.
Her first ambition had been to paint but after she heard a Japanese Haiku she started to write poetry.
She worked as a script supervisor on a number of projects, including the feature films A Christmas Star in 2015 and The Courier in 2019, and assistant produced the 2016 short film Portrait.
Through conceptual art, she denounces the academy, exposing the frustrations of Mariela Porras' place as a woman scientist who thinks and feels, and speaks for women as bodies-objects of study, by denouncing the dissonance between the bodies that produce the science and the bodies that receive it.
His title is rendered in Latin as "curator domus rerum Areobindi" (caretaker of the house of Areobindus).
The inscription is written in the Greek language, mentioning the glorious memory of Baduarius and Theodora.
The Legacies of Jean-Luc Godard (Co-edited with Douglas Morrey, U of Warwick, UK, and Nicole Cote, U of Sherbrooke.
In early 2009, a boy came to live with Aki Ra and Hourt who had lost an arm and most of a hand to a cluster munition.
In April 2023, Fowle was appointed the Director of the Arts Program at the Hearthland Foundation, a philanthropic organization founded by Kate Capshaw and Steven Spielberg.
Contributions 1931 Marion Isabel Newbigin, Julian Huxley, Trevor Samuel Muffitt, Ernst Bernhard Almquist, Richard Elmhirst Biological Foundations in Education: a textbook for teacher training.
Peleg was co-curator of Manifesta 7 (Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol, 2008) and curator of the film program at the 10th Shanghai Biennale (2014).
Theischinger has held research positions with the Australian Museum and the Smithsonian Institution and he has published extensively on dragonflies, stoneflies, alderflies and crane flies.
(The venom is an anticoagulant, causing the person to bleed to death.) In 1962, Perkins returned to the St.
She is Associate Professor and Chair of the Department of Art History at the University of Hong Kong, where she also serves as Associate Dean of Global.
In their 2015 book dedication to him, Steven Loft and Kerry Swanson describe Maskêgon-Iskwêw as "one of the foremost thinkers and practitioners of Aboriginal new media art." An archive of Maskêgon-Iskwêw's work is maintained by grunt gallery.
It is both a shop and a reading room and specialises in works relating to urbanism in western Asia and northern Africa.
Sources Martindale, John R.; Jones, A.H.M.; Morris, John (1992), The Prosopography of the Later Roman Empire - Volume III, AD 527–641, Cambridge University Press, ISBN 0-521-20160-8 == References ==
Film and Television Institute of India Though he got some practical training in branches of film making from film makers of Bombay, particularly Mehboob Khan, Bimal Roy and Hrishikesh Mukherjee, he realised that he did not have the ideal qualities to become a filmmaker himself.
By December that year she was Deputy Director of NCAM; then, by 2024 Garelnabi was Director of NCAM.
In addition, she collaborated with the Spanish museum Museari in their mapping of queer artists from Costa Rica for the annual Museari Queer Art exhibition in 2021 and 2022, which included Costa Rican artists Andy Retana, Sussy Vargas Alvarado, Osvaldo Sequeira and Man Yu.
She originated the weekly "Films at Noon" series and directed film programs coordinated with major museum exhibits such "The Family of Man".
She has specialized in African-related movies since 1985, and has worked internationally as a film and television programme consultant and writer.
Her interest in curating Aboriginal art and work with Indigenous artists is at the forefront of her research.
Insects, mammals, amphibians, mollusks, and one plant (an Argentinian cactus), as well as a bridge in Panama and the Wetmore Glacier in the Antarctic, have also been named after him.
As advised by Jean Bhownagary of Films Division of India, he appeared for an interview at the Film and Television Institute of India (FTII), was selected and joined the institute in March 1961 in the position of research assistant.
Garelnabi has commented to The Guardian on how gender diversity in archaeology in Sudan has increased in her lifetime: during her studies there were three women on the course, but in 2022 there were 20.
Tui Raven, Yamaji Nyungar from Western Australia and the creator of the Australian Guidelines for First Nations Collection Description a joint project between AIATSIS, ALIA, CAUL, CAVAL and NSLA.
Based in central London's MayDay Rooms, dedicated to 'history from below', the June Givanni Pan African Cinema Archive ranges from rare videos and audio interviews to film and festival posters, screenplays and transcripts, snapshots and stills.
Barakat founded in 1997 the Ziryab Gallery and Cafe in Ramallah, where he also worked as an art curator.
As a film journalist, he has written film reviews and features articles and conducted hundreds of interviews with celebrities.
Most institutions were already providing support to distance education students, faculty, and staff.
The films featured contextualized afrofuturist ideas through contemporary experimental films created by Black filmmakers.
She has also face accusations that she, and her predecessor at the National Museum of Sudan, have been involved in illicit antiquities trading.
Variable coloration by chromatophores Chromatophores are special pigment-containing cells that may change their size, but more often retain their original size but allow the pigment within them to become redistributed, thus varying the colour and pattern of the animal.
However some of these species undergo morphological color change over their lifetimes, growing to be a gold or white color pattern as an adult.
It concludes by urging readers to compare the book with Darwin's Descent of Man and with Wallace's Darwinism.
Evidently, alarm signals promote survival by allowing the receivers of the alarm to escape from the source of peril; this can evolve by kin selection, assuming the receivers are related to the signaller.
Some studies suggest that the northern shrike (Lanius excubitor) sings in winter often imitating small passerines that may be preyed upon when lured within reach.
The fungus obtains nutrition from carbohydrates on the egg's surface, without harming the egg itself.
The potential host (or prey) drives away its parasite (or predator) by mimicking it, the reverse of host–parasite aggressive mimicry.
These genes are the transcription factor Distalless (Dll) and the ligand (a signalling substance that binds a cell surface receptor) Hedgehog (Hh).
At least six species of horned lizards are able to squirt an aimed stream of blood from the corners of their eyes, up to 5 feet (1.5 m).
The insects have historically been eaten by Native Americans, who fried them or roasted them in hot ovens, stirring them until they were well browned.
They found that if larvae from an existing population of black mutants were raised at 20˚C, then all the final instar larvae were black; but if the larvae were instead raised at 28˚C, the final instar larvae ranged in color from black to green.
In many chromodorid nudibranchs, they take in distasteful and toxic chemicals emitted from sponges and store them in their repugnatorial glands (located around the mantle edge).
Researchers found that frequencies of Tf alleles of the Siberian reindeer differed from all the others.
Not all amphibians which display unkenreflexes possess aposematic coloring, nor do all amphibians display unkenreflex to the same degree.
He noted a case in the European nightjar, when a bird led him around the nest several times but made no attempt to lure him away.
This species, and others in its genus, have been extensively studied for understanding the genetic basis for polymorphism and Batesian mimicry.
"The palatability of the eggs of birds: illustrated by three seasons' experiments (1947, 1948 and 1950) on the food preferences of the Rat (Rattus norvegicus); and with special reference to the protective adaptations of eggs considered in relation to vulnerability".
Two different species of milkweed bug in the family Hemiptera, Lygaeus kalmii and large milkweed bug (Oncopeltus fasciatus), are colored with bright orange and black, and are said to be aposematically colored, in that they "advertise" their distastefulness by being brightly colored.
The ghillie suit was developed by Scottish gamekeepers for hunting deer, and adapted initially by a Scottish Highland regiment, the Lovat Scouts, for military use.
European grass snake (Natrix natrix), which secretes blood from the lining of the mouth while playing dead.
Volvation (from Latin volvere "roll", and the suffix -(a)tion; sometimes called enrolment or conglobation) is a defensive behavior of certain animals in which the animal rolls its body into a ball, presenting only the hardest parts of its integument (the animal's "armor") or its spines to predators.
In 2015–2016 studies, genome sequencing revealed a 240 kilobase haplotype encompassing the ALX1 gene that encodes a transcription factor affecting craniofacial development is strongly associated with beak shape diversity.
Such animals, like the tawny dragon lizard, may resemble rocks, sand, twigs, leaves, and even bird droppings (mimesis).
Nutritional rewards As long as natural enemies have some potential to be omnivorous, plants can provide food resources to encourage their retention and increase the impact they have on herbivore populations.
Intensity of display has been shown to decrease as the distance of the predator from the nest increases, perhaps representing the balancing of risk to the displaying parent and to the vulnerable young.
Animals may also use gaping as part of a courtship display, or to otherwise communicate with each other.
He continued to work from time to time after his retirement, for instance conducting a survey of crocodile nests on the Victoria Nile for the Uganda National Parks in 1972.
Alternatively, prey animals might be sufficiently gregarious to form clusters tight enough to enhance the warning signal.
A number of other aquatic molluscs have similar responses to attack, including the gastropod clade known as sea hares.
Camouflage can be achieved by a wide variety of methods, from disruptive coloration to transparency and some forms of mimicry, even in habitats like the open sea where there is no background.
It was Sheppard who found that the polymorphism is maintained by selective mating: each genotype preferentially mates with other morphs.
In his wartime lectures at Farnham Castle, he described nine categories of visual deception: merging, e.g.
There is also statistical evidence of change with time, based both on comparisons between sub-fossil and modern shells, and on resampling the same sites some decades apart, although the latter has more often found little change over the period (stasis).
Some species of caterpillar, such as those of hawkmoths (Sphingidae), have eyespots on their anterior abdominal segments.
Ultrasound avoidance in moths The idea that moths were able to hear the cries of echolocating bats dates back to the late 19th century.
Their calls differ based on signaller sex, threat type, habitat, and caller ontogenetic or lifetime predator experience.
Different pigmentation patterns provide appropriate camouflage throughout the seasons, as well as alter heat retention as temperatures change.
During the American Civil War, rifle units such as the Union army's 1st United States Sharpshooters wore green jackets while most Union units wore more conspicuous blue uniforms.
However, it currently remains unclear if any of the antitumor activity of squid ink can be obtained from oral consumption, and this is indicated as an area for future investigation.
Also, not only is polymorphism absent from these mimics, it is absent in the wasps also: these facts are presumably connected.
The females that change sex are often those who attain and preserve an initial size advantage early in life.
Assuming equal viability of the genotypes 1,209 heterozygotes would be expected, so the field results do not suggest any heterozygous advantage.
Species 1 therefore gains n-⁠a1n/a1+a2⁠ = ⁠a2n/a1+a2⁠ and species 2 similarly gains ⁠a1n/a1+a2⁠ in absolute numbers of individuals not killed.
While admiring of Poulton's detailed observations, Cope was critical of his support for Darwin, arguing that Poulton failed to explain how the variability that natural selection needs to work on actually arises.
Military prototypes Active camouflage in the form of counter-illumination has rarely been used for military purposes, but it has been prototyped in ship and aircraft camouflage from the Second World War onwards.
The offspring can inherit a dominant allele from one parent and a recessive allele from the other parent, making them heterozygous with a genotype of Bb.
Many tarantula species eject bristles from their abdomens, directing them toward potential attackers.
There are numerous possible mechanisms, of which the best known are: Batesian mimicry, where an edible species resembles a distasteful or dangerous species.
Hugh Bamford Cott (6 July 1900 – 18 April 1987) was a British zoologist, an authority on both natural and military camouflage, and a scientific illustrator and photographer.
The bamboo stem was found among fossil plant remains in the deposits of the Chirang River and was noted for its unusual surface markings and intact structure.
However, since polymorphisms may occur at low allele frequency, this is not a reliable way to tell new mutations from polymorphisms.
show that to establish adaptive self-deception, biologists must quantify the cost and benefit of ignoring one's true competitive ability.
Implemented most often in the face of an imminent attack by a predator, unkenreflex is characterized by the subject’s contortion or arching of its body to reveal previously hidden bright colors of the ventral side, tail, or inner limb; the subject remains immobile while in unkenreflex.
Besides experimental research, the comparative method can also be employed to investigate hypotheses such as those given by Curio above.
For ships Diffused lighting camouflage, in which visible light is projected on to the sides of ships to match the faint glow of the night sky, was trialled by Canada's National Research Council from 1941 onwards, and then by the Royal Navy, during the Second World War.
Hedgehog The Hedgehog (Hh) gene is the other element that has been functionally tested in the formation of eyespots.
In Müllerian mimicry, inedible species, usually within a taxonomic order, find it advantageous to resemble each other so as to reduce the sampling rate by predators who need to learn about the insects' inedibility.
Like Abbott Thayer, he used his artistry in his scientific work, including in Adaptive Coloration in Animals, to help argue the case he was making.
Since each parent must have a copy of the recessive allele in order to have an affected offspring, the parents are referred to as carriers of the condition.
Some termites (such as the soldiers of Globitermes sulphureus) release a sticky secretion by rupturing a gland near the skin of their neck, producing a tar effect in defense against ants.
Distraction displays Distraction displays, also known as deflection displays and diversionary displays, are behaviours that draw the attention of a predator away from an object, typically the nest or young.
Inspired by the evolution from genotype to genome to pan-genome, a concept of eventually exploring the relationship among pan-phenome, pan-genome, and pan-envirome was proposed in 2023.
He recorded that the Arctic fox, Arctic hare, ermine and ptarmigan change their colour seasonally, and gave "the obvious explanation", that it was for concealment.
If it resembled its surroundings like the members of the other class, it would be liable to a great deal of accidental or experimental tasting, and there would be nothing about it to impress the memory of an enemy, and thus to prevent the continual destruction of individuals.
There is currently not enough empirical data on the subject for there to be a consensus among experts.
Fossil description The bamboo stem shows rare preservation of structural features, including nodes, buds, and scars left by thorns.
Classification The family Dinidoridae is subdivided into two subfamilies: the Dinidorinae, and the Megymeninae, with the genus Megymenum in the latter.
One type produces sounds as acoustic aposematism, warning the bats that the moths are unpalatable, or at least performing as acoustic mimics of unpalatable moths.
Olfactory Some animals, in both terrestrial and aquatic environments, appear to camouflage their odor, which might otherwise attract predators.
Behavior around eggs Octopuses have also been observed squirting ink at snails or crabs approaching their eggs.
In reptiles and mammals Some reptiles, such as the sand lizard of Europe, have eyespots; in the sand lizard's case, there is a row of spots along the back, and a row on each side.
Later research has discovered that the viceroy is, in fact more toxic than the monarch and this resemblance should be considered as a case of Müllerian mimicry.
Cytochrome P450 oxidases (or P-450), a specific class of MFO, have been specifically connected to detoxification of plant secondary metabolic products.
In Europe, there are three morphs: the typical white morph (betularia or typica), and carbonaria, the melanic black morph.
Self-decoration is seen in some insects such as caddis fly larvae, the nymphs of the masked hunter bug, and occasionally also in octopuses.
(2006), Population Genetics and Microevolutionary Theory, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., ISBN 9-780-47140951-9
Some species of frogs are blinded by the quick changes in light, while nocturnal migratory birds may be disoriented, causing them to lose direction, tire out, or be captured by predators.
The adults of the various species now resemble each other so well that the species cannot be distinguished without close morphological observation and, in some cases, dissection or genetic analysis.
A good example is the Indian white admiral (Limenitis procris) which has five forms, each geographically separated from the other by large mountain ranges.
Camouflage Snow camouflage In his 1889 book Darwinism, the naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace considered the white coloration of Arctic animals.
Disrupting perception of motion Disrupting the attacker's perception of the target's motion was one of the intended purposes of dazzle camouflage as used on ships in the First World War, though its effectiveness is disputed.
A study in 2020 found that the frequency and duration of tonic immobility was affected by the sex of the wasp and the temperature of the environment, but not the color of the background the wasp was on.
essentially the same as one widely practised during the Great War for the concealment, not of caterpillars, but of caterpillar-tractors, [gun] battery positions, observation posts and so forth." == References ==
The relationship with some of these animals, such as sea anemones is mutualistic; in the case of aposematic animals like stinging sea anemones, the crabs are making use of the warning coloration of these partners to ward off predators.
The heterozygote has a permanent advantage (a higher fitness) so long as malaria exists; and it has existed as a human parasite for a long time.
Morphogenesis Butterfly eyespots are formed during embryogenesis as a result of a morphogenetic signalling centre or organizer, called the focus.
These ants use autothysis as a self-destructive defense to protect their territory, but they use it differently from termites, in that their primary uses for autothysis do not include blocking the tunnels of their territory from attackers, but more so for combat purposes during territorial battles.
First, there is their characteristic haplodiploid sex determination system, whereby all males are haploid, and all females diploid.
The ambiguous uses of camouflage—drawing attention when a fashionable look and doing the opposite in military use—fascinated Warhol.
Kerr was accompanied by John Samuel Budgett, who studied the frogs of the area and discovered a new genus.
However, some birds (inexperienced starlings and domestic chicks) also innately avoid conspicuously coloured objects, as demonstrated using mealworms painted yellow and black to resemble wasps, with dull green controls.
Where the background is brighter than is possible even with white pigment, counter-illumination in marine animals, such as squid, can use light to match the background.
Properties and chemistry Cephalopod ink contains a number of chemicals in a variety of different concentrations, depending on the species.
Aggressive mimicry Chrysopidae lacewing larvae decorate themselves with a mixture of materials including moulted cuticle and their own droppings, which appears to serve both to camouflage the larvae and to repel predators.
Direct production occurs through the presence of visible coloured cells known as pigment which are particles of coloured material such as freckles.
Ecology Beetle larvae of the chrysomelid subfamilies Criocerinae and Galerucinae retain their feces in piles on their backs, regularly adding material as feces slips off.
In the deep waters that the hatchetfish lives in, only blue light with a wavelength of 500 nanometres percolates down and needs to be reflected, so mirrors 125 nanometres apart provide good camouflage.
"Advanced camouflage system and method, Patent application 11/159,911, Publication US 2005/0276955 A1".
He noted that "[t]he whole proceeding is most human and purposeful", and that if a Stenorhynchus crab is cleaned, it will "immediately begin to clothe itself again with the same care and precision as before".
Females tend to convert more food into fat, while males convert more into muscle and expendable circulating energy reserves.
Days with snow cover halved between 1997 and 2007, and as few as 20 percent of the weasels had white winter coats.
They can completely regenerate the autotomically released or otherwise damaged skin tissue — regrowing hair follicles, skin, sweat glands, fur and cartilage with little or no scarring.
Mimicry Batesian Batesian mimicry, named for the 19th century naturalist Henry Walter Bates who first noted the effect in 1861, "provides numerous excellent examples of natural selection" at work.
In one study he found that of 123 species of bird, the kittiwake eggs scored highly with 8.2 out of 10.
It was classified as "adventitious protection" by Edward Bagnall Poulton in 1890, and as "adventitious concealing coloration" or "adventitious resemblance" by Hugh Bamford Cott in 1940, who compared it to the way Australian aborigines stalked waterfowl, covering their faces with water lily leaves.
Phylogeny A number of phylogenies, both molecular and morphological, have been produced for Darwin's finches.
The ants use this self-sacrifice to kill one or more enemies which entangle themselves in this sticky substance.
americanorum (now more commonly known as Bombus pensylvanicus), which is noxious to predators due to its sting.
The ink and opaline has been demonstrated to stimulate appetitive and ingestive behaviours, though opaline differs in the sense in that it inhibits ingestion.
Autotomy Some animals are capable of autotomy (self-amputation), shedding one of their own appendages in a last-ditch attempt to elude a predator's grasp or to distract the predator and thereby allow escape.
Some owlfly larvae, which are ambush predators, similarly self-decorate, hiding until prey comes within range.
Notch The Notch (N) gene expression precedes an upregulation of Dll in the cells that will become the center of the focus.
Up to five bands (very rarely more) run spirally around the shell, numbered 1 to 5 with the larger numbers further from the shell apex.
The decorator crabs attach plants, animals, small stones, or shell fragments to their carapaces to provide camouflage that matches the local environment.
The determining gene (or super-gene) for the inheritance of egg colour is believed to be carried on the W chromosome, which is directly transmitted in the female line.
The second question is more difficult, and can also be rephrased as being about the mechanisms that keep warning signals honest.
Other types of genetic marker, such as microsatellites, can have more than two alleles, and thus many different genotypes.
Over many generations, native species may evolve to be able to tolerate ingesting higher concentrations of toad toxins, or develop an innate ability to avoid consuming cane toad toxins.
Under crowded or "gregarious" conditions, the larvae have black bodies and yellow stripes along their bodies.
They are built on paired caudal processes (also called urogomphi) to the posterior end of the body; these processes move the shield over the body like an umbrella.
A genetic switch active in the cells of the embryo that will become the belly skin causes the Agouti gene to become active there, creating the countershading seen in adult mammals.
The body is short and does not extend as far as the supposed head, so that the insect is uninjured when it is seized.
Comparison of the observed paths with simulations of different pursuit strategies showed that these predatory birds used a motion camouflage path consistent with CATD.
Beetles Meloidae (blister beetles) – their haemolymph contains cantharidin that they sequester from plants on which they feed.
Eyespot markings may play a role in intraspecies communication or courtship; a well-known example is the eyespots on a peacock's display feathers.
Underwater camouflage is the set of methods of achieving crypsis—avoidance of observation—that allows otherwise visible aquatic organisms to remain unnoticed by other organisms such as predators or prey.
Outline obliteration from above Rowland (2009) identified an additional mechanism of countershading not previously analysed, namely that a round body such as a cylinder illuminated and seen from above appears to have dark sides.
Centipedes' last segments often mimic their heads by having a similar coloration and having the ultimate legs mimicking the antennae; this is thought to prevent predators from telling apart their heads, which have forcipules, from their arguably defenseless last trunk segments.
One example are trees growing in the woods developing long straight trunks, with branching crowns high in the canopy, while the same species growing alone in the open develops a spreading form, branching much lower to the ground.
In some cases, the variation in larval type is a 'plastic' trait in that it is environmentally mediated.
Kerr again influenced British camouflage in the Second World War, this time through his pupil Hugh B.
Another example is harbor seals eating juvenile salmon that moved down a river lit by nearby artificial lighting.
The active strategy was described as a "phantom echo" that might therefore represent "auditory crypsis" with alternative theories about interfering with the bats' echolocation ("jamming").
The results were intensely controversial, and from 2001 Michael Majerus carefully repeated the experiment.
When light falls from above on a uniformly coloured three-dimensional object such as a sphere, it makes the upper side appear lighter and the underside darker, grading from one to the other.
Evolutionary function Signalling One way that fish coloration can be categorized is into "static" or "dynamic" coloration/displays.
If predators switch between host plants that provide toxins and plants that do not, depending on the abundance of larvae on each type, then automimicry of toxic larvae by non-toxic larvae may be maintained in a balanced polymorphism.
Fourth level deception involves recognition of the other animal's beliefs, as when a chimpanzee tactically misleads other chimpanzees to prevent their discovering a food source.
Applications An example of the usage of SSLPs (microsatellites) is seen in a study by Rosenberg et al., where SSLPs were used to cluster different continental populations of human beings.
Another example of physiological color change is in the body and the eyes of guppy juveniles and Nile tilapia.
dardanus population on Pemba Island, Tanzania functions to avoid detection from a mate-searching male.
Significance The fossil represents the first known evidence that thorny bamboo existed in Asia during the Ice Age.
It is caused by a contraction of muscles around a large gland that leads to the breaking of the gland wall.
However, once model and mimic have become closely similar, some degree of mutual protection becomes likely.
In Lepidoptera, sexual dimorphism is widespread and almost completely determined by genetic determination.
Once amplified, polymorphisms and mutations in the sequence can be detected by DNA sequencing, either directly or after screening for variation with a method such as single strand conformation polymorphism analysis.
In the study on 2061 cattle in 14 herds over 4 years, 683 were given eye markings, 543 were painted with crosses, and 835 were unpainted.
Spectacular examples occur in the hairstreak butterflies; when perching on a twig or flower, they commonly do so upside down and shift their rear wings repeatedly, causing antenna-like movements of the "tails" on their wings.
Acoustic sensory receptors in noctuid moths are mechanoreceptors located in a chamber formed by the wall of the abdomen and the tympanic membrane, and they are most sensitive to lower frequencies of ultrasound (between 20 and 30 kHz.).
Besides the directional selection favouring camouflaged individuals, visually searching predators might cause apostatic selection.
Hiding strategy The spotty bobtail squid releases ropes of ink longer than itself and hides among them, possibly to be confused with floating seagrass leaves.
Legacy The Zoology Building of the University of Glasgow was renamed the Graham Kerr Building in his name.
Pouyannian In Pouyannian mimicry, named after the French lawyer and amateur botanist Maurice-Alexandre Pouyanne, flowers mimic a male pollinator's potential female mate, visually or with other stimuli.
False head Many insects have filamentous "tails" at the ends of their wings and patterns of markings on the wings themselves.
Further, it grades into other means of protection including "the borrowing of protection from aposematic partners" and the use of "fortified hiding-places" and burrows.
Domatia Certain tropical plants host colonies of ants in their hollow domatia and provide the ants with nutrition delivered from nectaries or food bodies.
When the mimics continue to outnumber the model there is also a stronger selective advantage for the predator to distinguish mimic from model.
Zoology Kerr interrupted his medical studies to join an Argentinian expedition to study the natural history of the Pilcomayo River.
Heterophylly Heterophylly is the presence of two or more different forms of leaves within an individual.
Cott compares the way Australian aborigines once used water lily leaves over their faces to swim towards waterfowl until they were close enough to catch them by the legs.
A classic example is the ABO blood group system in humans, where both the A and B alleles are expressed when they are present.
The first is the release of large amounts of ink into the water by the cephalopod in order to create a dark, diffuse cloud (much like a smoke screen) that can obscure the predator's view, allowing the cephalopod to make a rapid retreat by jetting away.
Whatever the mechanism, palatability may vary with age, sex, or how recently they used their supply of toxin.
Peppered moth The peppered moth, Biston betularia, is justly famous as an example of a population responding in a heritable way to a significant change in their ecological circumstances.
Eventually all the males will have the characteristics that the females are sexually selecting for, as only those males can reproduce.
It is unclear why these amputations occur, as oarfish have no documented natural predators, so it is unlikely to be a predation response.
In this second type of autotomy the lizard contracts a muscle to fracture a vertebra, rather than break the tail between two vertebrae.
Variation in PTC perception may reflect variation in dietary preferences throughout human evolution, and might correlate with susceptibility to diet-related diseases in modern populations.
Sheppard found that the polymorphism is maintained by selective mating: each genotype preferentially mates with other morphs.
He presented results showing that in a polluted urban wood with dark tree trunks, dark moths survived better than pale ones, causing industrial melanism, whereas in a clean rural wood with paler trunks, pale moths survived better than dark ones.
Cane toads are especially susceptible to native arthropods, which do not appear to experience any adverse effects from ingesting cane toad toxins.
Numerous arthropods, both insects and spiders, mimic ants, whether to avoid predation, to hunt ants, or (as in the large blue butterfly caterpillar) to trick the ants into feeding them.
For example, when he crossed a tall plant with a short plant, all the resulting plants would be tall.
Other researchers, generally those who support the selfish gene theory, question the authenticity of this "altruistic" behaviour.
This may be a form of deimatic behaviour, colloquially known as a startle display or threat display, as it enlarges the appearance of the animal, and for those with teeth it shows the threat that these represent.
For instance, genomic variations such as drought and heat resistance can be identified through phenomics to create more durable GMOs.
These SSLPs were extremely useful to the experiment because they do not affect the phenotypes of the individuals, thus being unaffected by natural selection.
Another beetle with a distinct horn-related sexual dimorphism is Allomyrina dichotoma, also known as the Japanese rhinoceros beetle.
One case is the golden orb weaver (Nephila clavipes), which spins a conspicuous golden coloured web in well-lit areas.
Both male and female puffins use gaping as a prominent part of their threat display, with "a range of intensities" based on the situation, and with puffins engaging in territorial gape contests, where they mirror each other until one gives up and leaves, or an actual fight occurs.
Attack protection Inking has been shown to protect species of squids against predatory fish attacks, as well during the capture phase as during the consummatory phase, due to visual and chemical effects of the ink released.
Cott used the example of the larva of the blotched emerald moth, which fixes a screen of fragments of leaves to its specially hooked bristles, to argue that military camouflage had used the same method, pointing out that the "device is ...
Natural enemies that make use of domatia are often said to serve as "bodyguards" for the plant on or in which they live.
In the latter type of moth, detailed analyses failed to support a "phantom echo" mechanism underlying sonar jamming, but instead pointed towards echo interference.
Subsequent research has provided evidence for only two functions of moth sounds, neither of which involve "auditory crypsis".
See also Animal suicide Anti-predator adaptation Apoptosis Autohaemorrhaging Exploding animal Self-destruct == References ==
However, a low rodent population in a given year may result in lower birth rates among foxes for that year, thereby resulting in a higher proportion of older, more experienced foxes in the population in the following year.
It was found that the moths' responses vary according to ultrasound intensity, diving towards the ground if the pulse was of a high amplitude or flying directly away from the sound source if the sound amplitude was low (if the sound was softer).
His proposers were Sir Isaac Bayley Balfour, James Cossar Ewart, Frederick Orpen Bower, and James Geikie.
SSLPs are repeated sequences over varying base lengths in intergenic regions of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).
Male harbour seals show specific vocalization and diving behaviours while demonstrating such behaviours for possible mates.
The term poecilogony was coined by Alfred Mathieu Giard to describe a polymorphism in larval development in marine invertebrates.
Modern use of cephalopod ink is generally limited to cooking, primarily in Japan and the Mediterranean, where it is used as a food colouring and flavouring, for example in pasta and sauces, and calamares en su tinta.
This research also demonstrated that the brain is necessary for the response, since decapitated crickets will fly but show no avoidance response behaviors.
Some species preferentially select stinging animals such as sea anemones or noxious plants, benefiting from aposematism as well as or instead of crypsis.
Wilkinson successfully promoted the false idea that Kerr's camouflage sought invisibility rather than image disruption.
Countershading, the use of different colors on upper and lower surfaces in graduating tones from a light belly to a darker back, is common in the sea and on land.
This stands out and distracts the observer's attention from the true form and contour of the body and appendages on which it is superimposed".
This pattern implies that the rattling "could serve as a general attention-getting device", which "is designed as a deimatic or startle display".
Anthocyanins (literally "flower blue") are water-soluble flavonoid pigments that appear red to blue, according to pH.
While mobbing has evolved independently in many species, it only tends to be present in those whose young are frequently preyed upon.
This hurts the overall fitness of the species, which is concerning considering the overall decrease in amphibian populations.
It was proof-read by Kerr, who commented on its publication 'It is by far the finest thing of the kind in existence'.
Polymorphism is one good way the opportunities get to be used; it has survival value, and the selection of modifier genes may reinforce the polymorphism.
On the other hand, the FDL complete their growth the following spring after they are taken into the ant nest.
Animal coloration; an account of the principal facts and theories relating to the colours and markings of animals.
The tubules contain a toxic saponin called holothurin, which is also present in the body wall in some sea cucumber species.
The availability of well-preserved remains is not a probable outcome as a consequence of decomposition and fossilization.
This may deceive predators in two ways: into attacking the tail rather than the more vulnerable head, and about the fish's likely direction of travel.
A classic pedigree for an autosomal dominant condition shows affected individuals in every generation.
In humans, females inherit two X chromosomes, one from each parent, while males inherit an X chromosome from their mother and a Y chromosome from their father.
Sea hares are gastropods without hard shells, using their specialized ink as their main defensive mechanism instead.
Snipers of many armies have since then adopted the ghillie suit for the effective concealment that it affords.
The slow-developing larvae do not grow much during the first year, but grow rapidly during the early part of the second summer and remain a second winter within the ant colonies.
XPD refers to "xeroderma pigmentosum group D" and is involved in a DNA repair mechanism used during DNA replication.
To date, this life history trait is only known in a small number of polychaete taxa, as well as some sacoglossan mollusks.
Mimicry of distasteful members of the same species Automimicry was first reported by the ecologist Lincoln Brower and colleagues, who found that monarch butterflies reared on cabbage were palatable to blue jays.
The aphid forms a large ball-shaped plant-made nest, called the gall, in which hundreds of aphids are living as a colony.
One habitat is rocky, sea-side cliffs, where the plants develop to be bushy with broad leaves and expanded inflorescences; the other is among sand dunes where the plants develop to lie prostrate with narrow leaves and compact inflorescences.
A series of polyphenisms determines whether larvae develop into queens, workers, and, in some cases soldiers.
Moreover, snails disperse more slowly than many other animals, so the most suitable genes may be locally absent.
In his book The Colours of Animals (1890), Edward Bagnall Poulton classified protective animal coloration into types such as warning colours and protective mimicry.
The selective breeding of crop plants often involves selection against the plant's intrinsic resistance strategies.
Environmental polymorphism Environmental polymorphism, where genetic heritability plays no role, is often termed polyphenism.
The goal was to enable a radar-equipped, sea-search aircraft to approach a surfaced submarine to within 30 seconds from arrival before being seen, to enable the aircraft to drop its depth charges before the submarine could dive.
Old workers of Neocapritermes taracua develop blue spots on their abdomens that are filled with copper-containing proteins (blue laccase).
This behavior is named after the fire-bellied toad (German: Unke; combining form: Unken-) which exhibits this reflex.
The luminescent bacterium is often Aliivibrio fischeri, as for example in the Hawaiian bobtail squid.
Kettlewell experimented on peppered moth evolution, showing that the species had adapted as pollution changed the environment; this provided compelling evidence of Darwinian evolution.
Variance in the length of SSLPs can be used to understand genetic variation between two individuals in a certain species.
However, as food supply begins to overwhelm the predator's ability to consume and process it, consumption levels off.
He included self decoration under the heading "Adventitious Protection", quoting Bateson's account of decorator crabs.
The foureye butterflyfish gets its name from a large and conspicuous eyespot on each side of the body near the tail.
In either case, the variation in larval type generally involves the production of larvae that differ in feeding mode and/or developmental time.
Thirteen species have been found to expel blood from the mouth and nostrils while also fully flooding both eyes with blood.
But he lacked an explanation either for genetic variation or for heredity, both essential to the theory.
An example would be the robber fly Mallophora bomboides, which is a Batesian mimic of its bumblebee model and prey, B.
Invasive plants such as the honeysuckle can thrive by altering their morphology in response to changes in the environment, which gives them a competitive advantage.
Vertebrates including several species of frog put on warning displays; some of these species have poison glands.
As levels of toxin vary depending on diet, some individuals are more toxic than the rest, which profit from the toxicity of those individuals, just as hoverflies benefit from mimicking well-defended wasps.
Those selected for longer death-feigning durations are at a selective advantage to those at shorter durations when a predator is introduced.
The shield is also a problem for the larva when it has the opposite effect: its chemistry attracts predators instead of repelling them.
In contrast, schematochromes (structural colors) are colors created by light reflections from a colorless surface and refractions by tissues.
Genotype contributes to phenotype, the observable traits and characteristics in an individual or organism.
In a frog widespread in Turkey and the Caucasus, Rana macrocnemis, the proportion of frogs with the stripe increases with the altitude in mountains of the Lesser Caucasus, but not in the Greater Caucasus.
Polymorphic and/or mimetic females occur in the case of some taxa in the Papilionidae primarily to obtain a level of protection not available to the male of their species.
Since the host birds do not eat snails, the sporocyst has another strategy to reach its host's intestine.
An important element of the masting strategy is synchrony in production, which is most effective when it is staggered.
Industrial melanism Between 1953 and 1956, the geneticist Bernard Kettlewell experimented on peppered moth evolution.
Some potential prey are unpalatable to bats, and produce an ultrasonic aposematic signal, the auditory equivalent of warning coloration.
Poulton's 1890 book, The Colours of Animals, written during Darwinism's lowest ebb, used all the forms of coloration to argue the case for natural selection.
Orthoptera Bushhoppers, such as Dictyophorus spumans, Phymateus viridipes and Phymateus leprosus – their haemolymph contains cardiac glycosides, sequestered from milkweed on which they feed.
Classification of induced genes Not all up-regulated genes in induced defences are directly involved in the production of toxins.
Diet and impact on ink The diet of sea hares enables them to gain the chemicals present in their ink and determine the color of their ink.
Self-decoration Self-decoration is employed by animals in different groups, including decorator crabs, which attach materials from their environment, as well as living organisms, to camouflage themselves.
They too are unpalatable, in the sense of being difficult to eat: their body is covered with setae (like carpet pile) and is armoured; they are sometimes described as being 'non-food'.
The Meiacanthus atrodorsalis and the Plagiotremus laudandus, both venomous, resemble each other and the Meiacanthus oualanensis and the Plagiotremus laudandus flavus, also both venomous, resemble each other.
The same study estimates that the Decim species group split from the common ancestor of the Decula plus Cassini species groups around 4 million years ago (Mya).
When the eggs hatch, some of the fungus remains on the stinkbug nymphs, but it is shed when they molt.
The question is, how can the differences between social wasp mimics and bumblebee mimics be explained?
In birds, the muscles that depress the lower mandible are usually weak, but certain birds have well-developed digastric muscles that aid in gaping actions.
If so, then automimics may simply be unlucky enough not to have gathered enough toxins from their environment.
Aphids A gall forming social aphid Nipponaphis monzeni is known for performing a spectacular self-sacrificing gall repairing behavior, which is regarded as a sort of autothysis.
Overview There is a strong evolutionary pressure for prey animals to avoid predators through camouflage, and for predators to be able to detect camouflaged prey.
Franz Boas found that cephalic index was to some degree dependent on where a child was born, independent of the child's genetic or cultural heritage.
Costs of mobbing behavior include the risk of engaging with predators, as well as energy expended in the process.
Kerr's aim was to make ships difficult to spot and fool range finders by disrupting their outlines, or in his own words "to destroy completely the continuity of outlines by splashes of white", to make ships harder to hit with gunfire at long range.
They created decoy homes and lined fake runways with flares, which were meant to help protect real towns from night raids.
Polyphenism in Lepidoptera is commonly seen in the form of seasonal morphs, especially in the butterfly families of Nymphalidae and Pieridae.
Tarantulas from the genera Avicularia, Pachistopelma and Iridopelma possess Type II hairs (Hoover, 1997).
When feeding on innocuous plants, they are harmless and nutritious, but a bird that has sampled a toxic specimen even once is unlikely to risk tasting harmless specimens with the same aposematic coloration.
A 1981 experiment confirmed the expected correlation between deceptiveness and survival in butterflies.
Studies tried to extrapolate the result of Hh pathway involvement by looking for the expression of Ci in Bicyclus anynana.
Lamellar ichthyosis, also called "fish scale disease", is an inherited condition in which one symptom is excess production of melanin.
All three have different genotypes but the first two have the same phenotype (purple) as distinct from the third (white).
Some animals change color in changing environments seasonally, as in ermine and snowshoe hare, or far more rapidly with chromatophores in their integuments, as in chameleon and cephalopods such as squid.
All genetic polymorphisms start out as a mutation, but only if they are germline and are not lethal can they spread into a population.
Predator-induced Predator-induced polyphenisms allow the species to develop in a more reproductively-successful way in a predator's absence, but to otherwise assume a more defensible morphology.
Autothysis (from the Greek roots autos- αὐτός "self" and thysia θυσία "sacrifice") or suicidal altruism is the process where an animal destroys itself via an internal rupturing or explosion of an organ which ruptures the skin.
It can also contain, among others, tyrosinase, dopamine, and L-DOPA, as well as small amounts of free amino acids, including taurine, aspartic acid, glutamic acid, alanine, and lysine.
In addition to chemical defenses, herbivory can induce physical defenses, such as longer thorns, or indirect defenses, such as rewards for symbiotic ants.
Another possible function of the fecal shield may include protection of the larva from environmental conditions such as ultraviolet radiation, desiccation, wind, and rain.
Another version similar to the one kept at the Philadelphia Museum of Art is part of the National Gallery of Victoria's modern art collection.
This movement, together with their appearance, causes the 'tails' to bear the strongest likeness to the antennae of a butterfly; the real antennae being held [downwards] so as not to attract attention.
Examples of species possessing this ability are cotton rats (Sigmodon hispidus), eastern chipmunks (Tamias striatus), and degu (Octodon degus).
Computer simulations have suggested the melanin deployed by cuttlefish may be particularly effective against the scent receptors of sharks, overwhelming the fishes' narrow but extremely intense scent range to deter them from predation.
Sherratt observes that the packaging of British supermarket own brands of potato crisps are consistently colour-coded red for the ready-salted variety, green for salt and vinegar, and blue for cheese and onion, across the major chains Sainsbury's, Tesco, Asda, and Waitrose.
Water from the respiratory tree is forced into these tubules causing a rapid expansion and they elongate by up to 20 times their original length.
Unkenreflex – interchangeably referred to as unken reflex (Unke is the German word for fire-bellied toads) – is a defensive posture adopted by several branches of the amphibian class, including salamanders, toads, and certain species of frogs.
In male green frogs, artificial light causes a decrease in mate calls and continued to move around instead of waiting for a potential mate to arrive.
The ink is released from the ink sacs (located between the gills) and is dispersed more widely when its release is accompanied by a jet of water from the siphon.
The paired respiratory trees and cloaca also remain (although they may be expelled in other species) The introvert changes from being firm and opaque to being soft and translucent.
He held the seat until the university constituencies were abolished for the 1950 general election, serving for a time as Chairman of the Parliamentary and Scientific Committee.
An individual homozygous for the recessive sickle hemoglobin, HgbS, has a short expectancy of life, whereas the life expectancy of the standard hemoglobin (HgbA) homozygote as well as heterozygote is normal (though heterozygote individuals will suffer periodic problems).
For example, the cottonmouth is so named because the white lining of its mouth is visible when gaping.
The second noteworthy event took place about 320,000 years ago with the split of the western Cassini group from its conspecifics to the east.
The transcription of defensive gene produces either proteins that are directly involved in plant defence such as proteinase inhibitors or are enzymes that are essential for the production of such proteins.
Animal coloration provided important early evidence for evolution by natural selection, at a time when little direct evidence was available.
His co-workers' first-hand accounts of his work in military camouflage can be found in the memoirs of two of his fellow camoufleurs: Julian Trevelyan and Roland Penrose.
In each species group, Decim, Cassini, and Decula, the signature of the glacial periods is manifested in three phylogeographic genetic subdivisions: one subgroup east of the Appalachians, one midwestern, and one on the far western edge of their range.
Nocturnality is a behavior in some non-human animals characterized by being active during the night and sleeping during the day.
The response is evoked by brief ultrasonic pulses in the 20 to 100 kHz range, pulses that fall within the range of bat ultrasonic echolocating calls (20–100 kHz).
The compounds used in autothysis, however, have also been explained to have some use in deterring vertebrate predators from eating the ants, because these products are inedible.
Blue-throated males are of intermediate size, and guard smaller territories containing only a single female.
When a worker ant's leg is grasped, it suicidally expels the contents of its hypertrophied submandibular glands, expelling corrosive irritant compounds and adhesives onto the predator.
Polygenic traits A polygenic trait is one whose phenotype is dependent on the additive effects of multiple genes.
Its tongue bears a conspicuous pink extension that resembles a worm and can be wriggled around; fish that try to eat the "worm" are themselves eaten by the turtle.
On average, males have larger hearts, slower heart rates, 10 percent higher red blood cell count, higher hemoglobin, hence greater oxygen-carrying capacity.
The strategy has been used by traditional human hunters, such as when Australian aborigines dressed in emu skins and adopted emu-like postures to hunt these birds.
Volvation is common for subterranean isopods, but only Caecosphaeroma burgundum is able to roll into a hermetic sphere without any outward projections.
The altered regulatory circuit redeploys early developmental signaling sources, like the canonical hedgehog (Hh) pathway, Distal-less (Dll), and engrailed (En), breaking the anterior/posterior compartmentalization restrictions through increased localized levels of Hh signaling.
In contrast, along with bradycardia, vertebrates in tonic immobility often reduce their breathing rate or protrude their tongue, further distinguishing this behavior from the freezing response.
The beak of Cactornis is somewhat like that of a starling, and that of the fourth subgroup, Camarhynchus, is slightly parrot-shaped.
Subsequently, Brower proposed the hypothesis of automimicry involving a polymorphism or spectrum of palatability: some individuals might be defended, and others palatable.
The coevolution that occurs between plants and herbivores that ultimately results in the speciation of both can be further explained by the Red Queen hypothesis.
On his return, he studied natural sciences at Christ's College, Cambridge, graduating with first class honours in 1896.
Similarly, some ground-nesting birds, including the European nightjar, select a resting position facing the sun.
The term was proposed by Ulrich Maschwitz and Eleonore Maschwitz in 1974 to describe the defensive mechanism of Colobopsis saundersi, a species of ant.
Dozens of soldiers come out, explode, mix, and plaster, and the gall breach is sealed up with the solidified body fluid.
Cott concluded that the effect was concealment "so long as the false configuration is recognized in preference to the real one".
In birds Male birds of some species, such as the peacock, have conspicuous eyespots in their plumage, used to signal their quality to sexually selecting females.
The chapter describes animals including the puss moth caterpillar which combines a threatening display with camouflage and the ability to eject an irritant fluid for protection.
The most famous transgenic approach is the introduction of genes from the bacterial species, Bacillus thuringiensis, into plants.
19th-century origins The development of military camouflage was driven by the increasing range and accuracy of infantry firearms in the 19th century.
There is experimental evidence that implies the female may also release pheromones that attract the male; this is an instance of chemical display behaviour that plays a large role in animal communication.
Studies of rear-wing damage support the hypothesis that this deflects attacks from the insect's head.
An experiment involving machine learning methods utilizing gene expressions measured from RNA sequencing found that they can contain enough signal to separate individuals in the context of phenotype prediction.
The cattle were always in mixed groups of marked and unmarked animals; it is not known whether marking all animals in a herd would provide effective protection.
Thayer's observation "Animals are painted by Nature, darkest on those parts which tend to be most lighted by the sky's light, and vice versa" is called Thayer's Law.
Mimicking optic flow of background Some animals mimic the optic flow of the background, so that the attacker does not appear to move when seen by the target.
His book Adaptive Coloration in Animals (1940), popular among serving soldiers, was the major textbook on camouflage in zoology of the twentieth century.
The second response to a predator is to release pseudomorphs ("false bodies"), smaller clouds of ink with a greater mucus content, which allows them to hold their shape for longer.
The simultaneous presence of pearl bodies, ant domatia and extrafloral nectaries, suggest a facultative plant-ant mutualism.
"Targeting the Anuak: Human Rights Violations and Crimes Against Humanity in Ethiopia's Gambella Region" (PDF).
There has been an approximately decade long cycle of recurrent droughts in this part of east Africa since earlier in the 20th century and by the late 1970s signs of intensifying drought began to appear.
Some authors, like the Bosnian political theoretician Jasmin Hasanović, connect the emergence of ochlocracy in democratic societies with the decadence of democracy in neo-liberal Western societies, in which "the democratic role of the people has been reduced mainly to the electoral process".
Under the Transit treaty between Afghanistan and Pakistan a massive network for smuggling developed.
Party factionalism, corruption, personal rivalries, scandals, and political instability characterized the Sadiq regime.
The Molotov–Kuusinen agreement mentioned leasing the Hanko Peninsula, and determining the number of troops to be appointed in a separate agreement.
The propagandistic glorification of Mussolini also accompanied the party's transformation from 1926 onward.
Resolution 1989 dealt with sanctions relating to Al-Qaeda, while Resolution 1988 (2011) addressed sanctions against the Taliban.
Taliban The Taliban denied that the bounty program exists, with Taliban spokesperson Zabiullah Mujahid saying that "our target killings and assassinations were ongoing in years before, and we did it on our own resources" without assistance from intelligence agencies.
China provided economic support to Mongolia by building factories and apartment blocks, and thousands of Chinese laborers were involved in the projects until they were withdrawn in 1962 in an unsuccessful bid to pressure Mongolia to break with the USSR during the Sino-Soviet split.
In a narrower sense, jihadism refers to the belief that armed struggle with political rivals is an efficient and theologically legitimate method of socio-political change.
Zemaryalai Tarzi, who was Afghanistan's chief archeologist in the 1970s, called it an "unacceptable decision".
This figure was updated, adding those counted by the South Asia Terrorism Portal but only concerning FATA and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and not the whole regions of the country.
Kayan Valley had functioned as a center for Ismaili political and military activities during the Soviet–Afghan War and subsequent civil conflict.
On 7 November 2014, Ehsan claimed responsibility for twin blasts that killed at least six people in Mohmand agency.
In October 2023, he launched a new social media account, Xenocosmography, marking a shift toward religious and numerological themes.
Similar proposals to those of the Prague Declaration received support in the European Parliament, which adopted a 2009 resolution on European conscience and totalitarianism.
Each Member State has its own approach to this issue but, in the interests of reconciliation, the memory of those crimes must be a collective memory, shared and promoted, where possible, by us all.
Timeline 2017 February 2017 On 13 February 2017, a suicide bombing took place on the Mall in Lahore, where a group of chemists and pharmaceutical personnel were demonstrating at the Charing Cross.
The assassin of former President Abdirashid Shermarke Ismail was tried, tortured, and executed by the Supreme Revolutionary Council.
Reason Wafawarova argued in 2008 that rigid approaches to democracy may undermine the ability for a developing country to achieve long-term stability and democracy.
In contrast, the Iron Guard in the Kingdom of Romania utilized a hardline form of mysticism-driven religion to encourage determination among the nation's ultranationalists.
However, Italy's conquests were always heavily contested, both by various insurgencies (most prominently the Greek resistance and Yugoslav partisans) and Allied military forces, which waged the Battle of the Mediterranean throughout and beyond Italy's participation.
The militants deliberately targeted civilians socializing outdoors, such as by executing an elderly florist serving religious travelers.
He also said that the agreed-upon period of reduction in violence was over and that operations against Afghan government forces could resume.
They confront the reader with the weight of past loss and the fear of an unknown future," adding that "despite their challenging nature, the pieces were deeply therapeutic." Karla Strand of Ms.
The Japanese had also assisted the formation of the Burma Independence Army (BIA), which aided the Japanese during their invasion.
Special Operations forces, among others the 7th Special Forces Group, 160th SOAR, Navy SEALs, and MARSOC Marines.
Although the Duke of Monmouth's rising of 1685 was the last rebellion, there was scarcely a year in which London or the provincial towns did not see aggrieved people breaking out into riots.
See also Presidential Commission of the Russian Federation to Counter Attempts to Falsify History to the Detriment of Russia's Interests Propaganda in the Russian Federation Russian web brigades == References ==
The Territory of the Al-Qaeda in Iraq or also Islamic Republic of Qaim during the occupation of Al-Qa'im in 2005, refers to the areas controlled by the Al-Qaeda in Iraq.
Doe's favoritism towards the Krahn people increased tensions by encouraging boundaries and status differences among native Liberian ethnic groups.
Among the founders of Lutte du Peuple were some dissident left-wing nationalists of the Ordre Nouveau and European socialists of the Pour une Jeune-Europe (not to be confused with Jeune-Europe headed by Thiriart), directed by Yves Batille.
Under Allende they were reorganised under the rubric National Confederation of Mothers' Centres (Confederación Nacional de Centros de Madres, COCEMA) and leadership of his wife, Hortensia Bussi, to encourage community initiatives and implement their policies directed at women.
When Bokassa declared that he was going to be hosting a coronation for himself as the emperor of the new Central African Empire, many of the novelties that attributed to the luxurious event came from France.
In 1985, Israel began to withdraw from Lebanon, as a result of domestic opposition in Israel and international pressure.
Miller would executive produce alongside fellow Handmaid's Tale executive producer Warren Littlefield of The Littlefield Company, with MGM Television as the studio.
All estates over 0.5 km2 in pre-war Polish territories and all over 1 km2 in former German territories were nationalised without compensation.
On 11 December 2020 Ziaulhaq Amarkhil the Governor of Nangarhar Province claimed on his Twitter account that Abdul Wali was killed by National Directorate of Security in the Chaparhar District although his death was not confirmed by the United States.
Land views capitalism as the driver of modernity and deterritorialization, advocating its use to dissolve existing social systems and reach a technological singularity.
Race Neoreactionaries endorse scientific racism, a pseudoscientific view which they refer to as "human biodiversity".
Hitler later dramatised an episode from this period when his father took him to visit a customs office, depicting it as an event that gave rise to an unforgiving antagonism between father and son, who were both strong-willed.
The Security Council reaffirmed Resolution 1373 (2001) and its determination to facilitate the implementation of counterterrorism obligations.
On 27 January 2003, during Operation Mongoose (War in Afghanistan), a band of fighters were assaulted by US forces at the Adi Ghar cave complex 25 km (15 mi) north of Spin Boldak.
The Agence France-Presse reported that Ansar Dine claimed to occupy the towns of Tinzaouaten, Tessalit, and Aguelhok, all close to the Algerian border, and that they had captured at least 110 civilian and military prisoners.
The term Talibanization (or Talibanisation) refers to a type of Islamist practice that emerged following the rise of the Taliban movement in Afghanistan, where other religious groups or movements come to follow or imitate the strict practices of the Taliban.
Boys' education emphasized discipline and physical training, while girls were taught to become supportive wives and caring mothers to breed a stronger, healthier new generation.
One criticism is that interests, both social and economic, are so diverse that a state cannot possibly define or organize them effectively by incorporating them.
Bush described his objectives for post-Cold War global governance in cooperation with post-Soviet states.
In theory members of the Regional Command were responsible to the party congress, but in practice they controlled the congress, and the leadership often decided results beforehand.
As the government broke into several factions, the issue was how to carry out a transfer of power to a new government.
Methods of electing the parliament can not be considered democratic, because the masses become completely disconnected from the Members of Parliament.
France accused the group of summarily executing 82 soldiers and civilians in capturing Aguelhok, describing the group's tactics as "Al-Qaeda-style".
The Derg was established on 21 June 1974 as the Coordinating Committee of the Armed Forces, Police and Territorial Army, by junior and mid level officers of the Imperial Ethiopian Army and members of the police.
The structure was destroyed by Taliban forces in September 1998, shortly after they captured the Kayan Valley.
A Burma Independence Preparatory Committee, chaired by Ba Maw, was formed on 8 May 1943 with a wide variety of respected members.
Pöttering brought up the classic study on totalitarianism by Hannah Arendt, which developed "the scientific basis criteria to describe totalitarianism," concluding that "both totalitarian systems (Stalinism and Nazism) are comparable and terrible," Pöttering said.
Due to a lack of information and secret annexes in the agreement, that had not been shared even with the then Afghan government, the Taliban were able to spread propaganda and disinformation about the agreement, including convincing local police and military units that the U.S.
It is one of the most important intersections in Mingora, and there are numerous shops and establishments located around this square.
These are elaborate and colorful hand-knotted carpets, which help indicate the distinctions among the various Turkmen clans.
The Kokuhonsha published a monthly newspaper called Kokuhon, and acted as Hiranuma's political support group.
Nazi-Maoism is mostly believed to have faded away after the Lotta di Popolo group dissolved itself in 1973.
However, this was opposed by the British, who, considering the timing to be unfavorable, had considerable reservations about supporting the BNA.
Norway was still under occupation in May 1945, but Vidkun Quisling and most of his ministers surrendered at Møllergata 19 police station on 9 May, one day after Germany's surrender.
Three days after establishing the National Assembly, its inaugural session was held at the pre-war Legislative Building and it elected by majority Benigno S.
See also Territory of the Islamic State of Iraq Territory of the Islamic State Territory of Boko Haram Territory of Jama'at Nusrat al-Islam wal-Muslimin Islamic Emirate of Somalia == References ==
This is supposed to allow a safe passage after the 31 August deadline for withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan.
Vincent Tong as Fuzz, an insect living in the Land of Monsters, who accompanied Kai and Daidan through the former realm until it was later revealed that he is the son of the Queen of the Monsters and was actually only luring Kai to her so he could be eaten.
On 8 September, Akhundzada issued a statement addressed to the interim government, telling it to uphold Sharia in Afghanistan.
It copies the "fashwave" aesthetic used initially by online supporters of figures like Donald Trump or Ron DeSantis.
Often, they took names such as Communist Party (Marxist–Leninist) or Revolutionary Communist Party to distinguish themselves from the traditional pro-Soviet communist parties.
However, members of the KPRA were never elected, as the Central Committee of the CPK appointed the chairman and other high officials both to it and to the State Praesidium.
Measures included a checklist in order for states to fulfill their obligations to the committee, and for states forwarding names to the list to use a "statement of case" describing the reasoning behind the request.
The Taliban were very reluctant to share power, and since their ranks were overwhelmingly Pashtun they ruled as overlords over the 60% of Afghans from other ethnic groups.
Reginald Slitterbottom, Frak's father and an archaeologist who is a member of the Explorers' Club, being its first Serpentine member.
From the Stalin era to the early Brezhnev era, the Soviet economy grew faster than the United States and maintained itself as the second largest economy in both nominal and purchasing power parity values for much of the Cold War until 1988, when Japan took the second place.
Assad's victory also marked the supersedure of the military over the Ba'ath party structures; making the armed forces a central centre of political power.
Life expectancy in the North was 72 before the famine which was only marginally lower than in the South.
Czech Foreign Minister Karel Schwarzenberg argued that the denial of the crimes of communism is analogous to denying the crimes of Nazism, which in many EU countries is a criminal offence, arguing that "there is a fundamental concern here that totalitarian systems be measured by the same standard.".
The popularity of the conquest meant that newspapers such as the Asahi Shimbun that had initially opposed the war swiftly pivoted to support the war as the best way of improving sales.
Saddam reacted by threatening to invade Kuwait if it continued to increase its oil output (which Kuwait did nevertheless).
France In 1964, a Maoist circle formed at École Normale among students who studied with Louis Althusser.
Corporatist systems were most prevalent during the mid-20th century in Europe and later elsewhere in developing countries.
Goryeo was never conquered by the Mongols, but exhausted after three decades of fighting, the Korean court sent its crown prince to the Yuan capital to swear allegiance to Kublai Khan, who accepted and married one of his daughters to the Korean crown prince.
As a result, he decided not to use the term "Maoism" and instead favoured characterising these ideological contributions as Mao Zedong Thought (Mao Zedong sixiang).
The creation of extremely large industrial complexes, farms, engineering efforts, buildings and statues was to prove the superiority of the socialist system over capitalism.
Yarvin told Vanity Fair: "The fundamental premise of liberalism is that there is this inexorable march toward progress.
By April 1969 the "popular revolutionary" uprising had been crushed, and al-Haji recanted his beliefs publicly.
Sam Jaeger as Mark Tuello (seasons 4–6, recurring season 3, guest season 2), an operative of the U.S.
Under Karmal, the Khalqist's were purged and replaced by the Parcham majority in the Council of Ministers.
Women's associations were eventually brought under the control of the party, as was the press, and in December 1971 Mobutu proceeded to emasculate the power of the churches.
Other Nazi collaborators, as well as Germans accused of war crimes, were also arrested and tried during this legal purge.
On 15 November 1990 after the elections the People's Republic of Bulgaria was officially renamed to the Republic of Bulgaria.
It may also be applied unfairly by those who do not understand Islamic culture and the basis of sharia law, or who fail to distinguish between moderate Islamic and extremist Islamist states, or misapplied to perceived threats which are not true or have yet to be proven.
titled "The Trump Administration and the Media", which mentioned that Trump's verbal attacks included the term "the enemy of the people".
Terijoki Government See also Finnish Socialist Workers' Republic, an earlier, independent socialist state which existed for several months in 1918.
In September 2024, the New York Society Library listed Tell Me What You See as one of the "Best Books of the 21st Century (So Far)," alongside titles by Neil Gaiman, Alice Hoffman, Colm Tóibín, and others.
The Protocols incorporate many of the core conspiracist themes outlined in the Robison and Barruel attacks on the Freemasons and overlay them with antisemitic allegations about anti-Tsarist movements in Russia.
Gigantomania (from Ancient Greek γίγας gigas, "giant" and μανία mania, "madness") is the production of unusually and superfluously large works.
Eventually, Japanese became the official language in addition to the Chinese taught in Manchukuo schools.
Critics said that the Afghan withdrawal would undermine the fragile security situation in the region and that the troop reductions would hamper the ongoing peace talks between Taliban fighters and the government of Afghanistan.
The operation aimed at indiscriminately eliminating residual threat of terrorism and consolidating gains of operations made so far.
In 1997, the country's name was restored to the Democratic Republic of the Congo; Mobutu died less than four months later while in exile in Morocco.
These organizations were a mix of Thiriart's theses with a Maoism adapted to the European scene but there was a fundamental difference because while for Thiriart Maoism was a secondary element, for Nazi-Maoist organizations it was a fundamental element.
Though human rights violations were committed by all sides, the great majority of abuses against civilians as well as actions leading to devastating famine were committed by the government.
Nazi Germany German dictator Adolf Hitler was extremely interested in architecture, and desired works of monumental scale to be built to represent the values and achievements of the Nazi regime, and to impress foreigners and later generations.
Tsolakoglou, Rallis and Logothetopoulos (in Germany, where he had escaped to) were all arrested, along with hundreds of other collaborationists.
Far more than the Chinese communists, the Khmer Rouge pursued the ideal of economic self-sufficiency, specifically the version that Khieu Samphan had outlined in his 1959 doctoral dissertation.
The Velebit Publishing House (Nakladna knjižara "Velebit"), named for the Velebit uprising, published pro-Axis works, including Japanac o Japanu [A Japanese on Japan] by the Japanese chargé d'affaires, Kazuichi Miura.
There is additional speculation that the destruction may have been influenced by al-Qaeda in order to further isolate the Taliban from the international community, thus tightening relations between the two; however, the evidence is circumstantial.
The Romanian Hearth Union (UVR), which had around 4 million supporters in 1992, has been described as neofascist.
The term was used in a Boston Globe editorial published on November 6, 1999, warning of the emerging threat of the Taliban regime almost two years before the attacks of September 11, 2001.
This appears to me to be a true new frontier; to a certain extent the religious experience can now be scientifically studied...
According to accounts of refugees who were recruited to mass gymnastics, the collectivist principle is nurtured by physical punishment such as beatings and more importantly the organization of recruits into small units, whose performances were held accountable by larger units.
Aside from the Office of the Minister President, the local Czech government in the Protectorate consisted of the Ministries of Education, Finance, Justice, Trade, the Interior, Agriculture, and Public Labour.
In 1954, Hoxha condemned the American and British liberation of Albania calling them "enemies of the people".
This authority was used to suppress and spy on the activities of civil rights workers, along with others suspected of sentiments contrary to white supremacy.
The Council urged all states to implement Resolution 1373 and reaffirmed the need to combat terrorism.
The Taliban movement first emerged on the military scene in August 1994, with the stated goal of liberating Afghanistan from its present corrupt leadership of warlords and establishing a pure Islamic society.
The National Foundation Society (国本社, Kokuhonsha) was a nationalist political society in late 1920s and early 1930s Japan.
On 2 March 1962, less than two years after returning to civilian rule, Ne Win launched a second military-backed coup d'état, this time without U Nu's blessing.
Albania, Ljubljana, coastal Dalmatia (for the presence of Dalmatian Italians), and Montenegro had been directly annexed by the Italian state.
Colossal architecture was to render the individual impotent by its sheer scale, and then mold him according to the values of National Socialism.
However, due to censorship, some films were not screened in cinemas until 1989, when communism ended in Central and Eastern Europe.
The United States agreed to an initial reduction of its force level from 13,000 to 8,600 by July 2020, followed by a full withdrawal within 14 months if the Taliban kept its commitments.
In Libya The Government of National Unity would instate a Taliban-like morality police to crack-down on "weird haircuts" and western practices.
Taliban spokesmen denied any relationship with the Front, and claimed that the group was a creation of the National Directorate of Security.
This includes diverting aid supplies, imposing heavy taxes on aid shipments, and restricting the movements of humanitarian workers.
Nazi-Maoism was a political movement and an ideology that emerged in Italy around 1968, with the formation of a group known as Struggle of the People (Lotta di Popolo).
After Germany's invasion of the Soviet Union, preparations were made for establishing Norwegian colonies in Northern Russia.
Alexander Zaitchik from the Southern Poverty Law Center wrote a report titled "'Patriot' Paranoia: A Look at the Top Ten Conspiracy Theories", in which he personally condemns such conspiracies as an effort of the radical right to undermine society.
Arolda Elbasani, in her review of Democracy Incorporated, finds Wolin's description of the US having some tendencies towards inverted totalitarianism as compelling but "rather exaggerated" and using some historical choices she calls "bewildering".
The Burmese Way to Socialism (Burmese: မြန်မာ့နည်းမြန်မာ့ဟန် ဆိုရှယ်လစ်စနစ်), also known as the Burmese Road to Socialism, was the state ideology of the Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma, the socialist state governed by the Burma Socialist Programme Party (BSPP) from 1962 to 1988.
Party squabbles are occasionally on public display, and there is a frantic and continuous politics among factions of the party, interest groups, competing corporate powers, and rival media concerns.
Yumjaagiin Tsedenbal, MPRP general secretary and second to Choibalsan, rose to prominence, inspecting aid deliveries and touring the Eastern Front as a Mongolian People's Army (MPA) lieutenant general.
Keys of This Blood: Pope John Paul II Versus Russia and the West for Control of the New World Order.
All OIC states—including Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates, three countries that officially recognised the Taliban government—joined the protest to spare the monuments.
Italy readied to fight against the British Empire in Africa and the Middle East, known as the "parallel war", while expecting a similar collapse of British forces in the European theatre.
Secret police organizations are characteristic of police states governed by authoritarian and totalitarian regimes.
After the end of World War I, Ahimier enrolled the University of Kiev in the Russian Empire, then traveled to Liege and Vienna to complete his academic studies.
White House report and subsequent congressional actions On April 6, 2023, the Biden White House put out its report on the August 2021 withdrawal of U.S.
Tsolakoglou's main qualification for the position was that he surrendered to the Wehrmacht the week before, on April 20, against the express orders of his commanding officer Alexandros Papagos.
Some teachers and students were Gestapo informers, which spread a climate of mistrust and paranoia across the school system as both teachers and students never knew whom to trust.
In 1990/91 an adult literacy rate of just over 60 percent was still being reported in government as well as in some international reports.
At the same time, it decided that the provision not to freeze accounts on humanitarian grounds no longer applied.
It is loosely based on the JSOC task forces such as Task Force 121, Task Force 145, Task Force 20, Task Force 6-26, and Task Force 88.
Mussolini asserted there was a "natural law" for stronger peoples to subject and dominate "inferior" peoples such as the "barbaric" Slavic peoples of Yugoslavia.
Despite this, upon declaring independence from Yugoslavia in 1991, the Republic of Croatia rehabilitated the Croatian Home Guard, whose veterans have since received state pensions.
One scholar noted how Marcos retained "all martial law decrees, orders, and law-making powers", including powers that allowed him to jail political opponents.
See also Bakhtar News Agency Mass media in Afghanistan Imams Online Islam Online References External links "Official website".
Jamaat-ul-Ahrar (Arabic: جماعة الأحرار, romanized: Jamā‘at ul-Āḥrār, "Assembly of the Free," abbreviated as JuA) is a militant group that split from Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan in August 2014.
21 November 2014, Jamaat-ul-Ahrar claimed responsibility for a grenade attack on the membership camp of Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) in Orangi Town area of Karachi.
Constructed in the mid-1990s and inaugurated on December 10, 1996, the eagle-shaped structure served as both a cultural landmark and meeting space for the local Ismaili community.
Joseph Stalin was well aware of the domestic political situation in Finland based on Soviet intelligence information, and thus did not anticipate that the establishment of the Democratic Republic would cause any revolutionary action or popular uprisings against the existing Finnish Government.
Pakistan's military said it had foiled an attempted suicide attack on a paramilitary training centre in Shabqadar, in the northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, two suicide bombers and a soldier were killed in the attempted attack, while another soldier was wounded.
Withdrawal from the Warsaw Pact In October 1964, Hoxha hailed Khrushchev's fall from power, and the Soviet Union's new leaders made overtures to Tirana.
Voice of Jihad (Arabic: صوت الجهاد, romanized: Ṣawt al-Jihād) was the title of a website, which claims to be one of the official websites of the Taliban.
There was also an environmental toll to the country, heavy deforestation from the illegal trade in timber with hundreds of acres of pine and cedar forests in Kunar Province and Paktya being cleared.
freeones of India) was a militant Islamist group in Pakistan that split from the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) in February 2014.
The name “kokuhon” was selected as an antithesis to the word “minpon”, from minpon shugi, the commonly used translation for the word “democracy”, and the society was openly supportive of totalitarian ideology.
In 1983 Hoxha relinquished many of his duties due to poor health, and Alia assumed responsibility for Albania's administration.
When a street vendor gives Tung an illegal anti-hallucinogen, he discovers that the Party leader has a horrible secret.
Sayed Rahmatullah Hashemi, a senior representative of the Taliban designated as the roving Ambassador, visited the US in March, 2001.
Quisling himself viewed the creation of his government as a "decisive step on the road towards the complete independence of Norway".
Territory The control of Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad was limited to Fallujah and Tal Afar but also for a very short time over Samarra.
Barre blamed the coup attempt on the Eastern Bloc, namely the Soviet Union and Cuba, countries that supported Ethiopia in the Ogaden War, he labeled them "new imperialists".
Origin Polybius appears to have coined the term ochlocracy in his 2nd century BC work Histories (6.4.6).
Increased negotiations Humanitarian organizations often engage in increased negotiations with all parties to a conflict, including government forces, rebel groups, and entities like Hamas.
In effect, North Korea's familial nationalism has supplanted the "rather abstract, class-oriented language of socialism with a more easily understandable and identifiable language of familial connections, love and obligations".
On 18 May 2024, the Afghanistan Freedom Front (AFF) insurgency group released a statement claiming that they carried out an assassination attempt against Azhundzada near the Shah-Do Shamshira Mosque in Kabul while he was visiting the city.
Yvonne Strahovski as Serena Joy Waterford, Fred's wife, and a former conservative cultural activist and author.
However, on the same day, Ghani also signed a decree for the release of 1,500 Taliban prisoners on March 14, but only if they agreed to sign pledges guaranteeing they will not return to battle.
In May 1978, a law was passed, whereby renting residential premises was prohibited, and tenants became owners of their rental apartments and houses.
Defenders among the American establishment saw the Taliban as Saudi Arabia-esque conservative Islamists who could act as a counterweight to revolutionary Iran.
David Dacko remained president until he was overthrown on 1 September 1981, by General André Kolingba.
Voice of Jihad was also the title of an online journal published by the Saudi branch of al-Qaeda between 2004 and 2007.
In the 1990s, Land was closely affiliated with the Cybernetic Culture Research Unit (CCRU), a "theory-fiction" collective co-founded by Land and cyberfeminist philosopher Sadie Plant at the University of Warwick.
In practice, the Arab Socialist Union then merged with the apparatus of the General People's Congress.
In addition, Italian leader Benito Mussolini's grandiose schemes to build a new Roman Empire in the Mediterranean directly clashed with Greek pretensions to control the Aegean Sea and the Dodecanese islands (then under Italian control) and to exert stronger influence in Albania.
The militants fatality reports are the official reports and battle logs gathered and published by the Ministry of Defence on the accounts of the rate of human casualties suffered by the Taliban in the frontier war since 2005.
Despre reconsiderarea critică a trecutului, Ion Gavrilă Ogoranu și rezistența armată anticomunistă din România [Between myth and trivialization.
Gaddafi and his companions intended to achieve this through "social justice, high levels of production, the elimination of all forms of exploitation and the equitable distribution of national wealth".
This contrasts with the liberal conception of constitutionalism that "law, rather than men, is supreme." Unlike the relatively constant (and, in some instances, permanently fixed) nature of democratic constitutions, a Marxist–Leninist constitution is ever-changing.
Another suit was filed by Koutoulas and the Let'sGoBrandon.com Foundation against NASCAR in September 2025, seeking $76 million in damages for the sponsorship being rejected.
In October 2021 then-Pakistani prime minister Imran Khan expressed his view that "...if TTP surrender and accept Pakistan's law, then they will be free from charges." However, TTP denied the state of prime minister.
The judicial branch of the Sudanese government consists of a Constitutional Court of nine justices, the National Supreme Court, the Court of Cassation, and other national courts; the National Judicial Service Commission provides overall management for the judiciary.
A separate Wall Street Journal report said that the NSA has "strongly dissented" from the CIA and Defense Intelligence Agency assessments that the bounty plot is credible and real.
The Alliance for the Union of Romanians has also been associated with this current, although its leaders have denied any such connection, and so has been the United Romania Party by Vice.
Food shortages Prioritizing the shortages of food, he organized an agency to distribute rice, even though most of the rice was confiscated by Japanese soldiers.
Background Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad was founded in Jordan in 1999, between 1999 and 2004 the organization did various terrorist attacks in both Jordan and Iraq, however besides that the organization didn't controlled any territory until circa.
Wells-Barnett EtymologyOnLine External links Quotations related to Mob rule at Wikiquote The dictionary definition of mob rule at Wiktionary
Kim Il Sung believed that excessive foreign aid threatened a country's ability to develop socialism, which only a state with a strong, independent economy could build.
He attributed the popularity of the phrase to frustration with Biden's "disastrous policies", including his handling of the COVID-19 pandemic and the southern border.
After the rise of anti-Jewish violence in the British Mandate of Palestine one year prior, support for the Brit HaBirionim faction of the ZRM soared, Brit HaBirionim quickly became the largest faction within the ZRM in 1930.
The Taliban had heralded their ascendency in the area by killing the famous Pakistani dancer Shabana in the square.
As soon as he announced his willingness, on March 18, to resign in order to make way for a neutral interim government, Najibullah immediately lost control.
In the first half of 1976, about 400 people were sent there; in the second half of the year that number was nearer to 1,000.
Dennis Ray Morgan adds that in addition to the concentration of raw military power, technology is helping to lead the world towards the type of inverted totalitarianism seen in 1984 and Brave New World.
See also Jamaat-ul-Ahrar Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan Fazlullah Operation Zarb-e-Azb References External links "Taliban's former spokesman Ehsanullah Ehsan surrenders: Pakistan Army".
Circulation of the tögrög was strictly controlled by the MPR government with Soviet backing, and its foreign exchange rate was artificially fixed.
Links between neo-Legionary organizations and priests of the Romanian Orthodox Church are a documented phenomenon in Romania.
Hun Sen's forces also carried out military activities, with UN peacekeepers proving ineffective in preventing the violence.
But they agreed for an indefinite ceasefire and that both sides should console with their elders for the next three months.
Mark Hildreth as Arrakore, a djinn and one of the few known inhabitants of Djinjago to escape from its destruction.
In line with the dictates of authenticity, the name of the country was changed to the Republic of Zaïre on 27 October 1971, and that of the armed forces to Zairian Armed Forces (Forces Armées Zaïroises—FAZ).
A draft constitution was formed by the Preparatory Commission for Independence, consisting of 20 members from the KALIBAPI.
The end of the Cold War and collapse of the Soviet Union dealt a deep blow to Assad, who retained the nostalgia for the old Soviet-led socialist order.
"Might makes right" or "might is right" is an aphorism that asserts that having superior strength or power gives one the ability to control society and enforce one's own agenda, beliefs, concepts of justice, and so on.
Zarqawi had reclaimed his base in western Anbar, declared Al Qa'im as his capital, and was also operating in Hit and the Haditha Triad.
It is commonly used in reference to Orwell's 1949 dystopian novel Nineteen Eighty-Four which describes an oppressive fictional totalitarian society where propaganda is used to manipulate the population.
On paper, the Grand Council had the power to recommend Mussolini's removal from office, and was thus theoretically the only check on his power.
Noua Dreaptă ("New Right") and the Everything For the Country Party have been described as neo-Legionary.
Shermarke had been visiting drought-stricken areas in the northeast when the assassin, Said Yusuf Ismail, shot and killed him.
The elder statesman Saionji Kinmochi publicly criticized the organization of promoting Japanese fascism.
A president served as head of state and head of government, with sweeping executive and legislative powers.
Several representatives of the Russia-based organisation World Without Nazism have criticised the Prague Declaration.
On 22 May 1939, Galeazzo Ciano, Italian Foreign Minister, signed the Pact of Steel with Germany, which officially sanctioned the birth of a binding Italian-German alliance.
Ultranationalism has been an aspect of fascism, with historic governments such as the regimes of Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany building on ultranationalist foundations by using specific plans for supposed widespread national renewal.
He was instead kept in his palace, which was sufficiently stocked with goods to allow him a luxurious lifestyle throughout the Khmer Rouge years.
Thus, he prefers capitalist monarchies to pursue long-term technological progress, as he believes democracy focuses on short-term public interests.
In the fighting that ensued, 24 people (including Sheikh Abdel Latif Moussa himself) were killed and over 130 were wounded.
Operation Radd ul Fasaad On 22 February 2017, in response to the Operation Ghazi, Pakistan Army launched Operation Radd-ul-Fasaad (lit.
Soon, Abba Ahimier, the poet Uri Zvi Greenberg, and Wolfgang von Weisl, the chairman of their Palestine central committee, became the ideological leaders of the Revisionists, after Jabotinsky was banned from returning to Palestine by the British authorities, due to his political activities.
After the PDPA government had ordered the replacement of seven Khalqist officers with Parchamites, the seven officers sent the intended replacements back.
The Defence Council was established at the national, provincial and district level to devolve powers to the local PDPA.
One day later Ansar Dine and MNLA proceeded to take the towns of Kidal, Gao, and Timbuktu within the following ten days.
Afghanistan's long history of resistance to any type of strong centralized governmental control further undermined his authority.
Organizations such as the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA), the Palestine Red Crescent Society, and international NGOs like Médecins Sans Frontières have been all involved in providing humanitarian assistance.
[in] developing citizens who seek the common good." Thucydides, the famous Greek historian of the Peloponnesian War, witnessed the fall of Athenian democracy and applied scientific history in his critique of the democratic government.
representative Madison Cawthorn that former president Trump would return to power "with a vengeance".
In addition, some members of the American Left may use it to criticize the Republican Party and the Christian right in their allegations that the radical right wing is implementing policies which are based on Christian fundamentalism.
It was a professed communist state, governed first by the Hungarian Working People's Party and after the Hungarian Revolution of 1956, the Hungarian Socialist Workers' Party.
One theme in the story, however, seems compelling to me, in view of recent experiments with hallucinogenic drugs: the theological experience, which so many who have taken LSD have reported.
This approach requires a functioning market and banking system, which may not be available in all locations.
On May 5–6, 1992, Hizb-i Islami subjected Kabul to a heavy artillery bombardment, killing and injuring an unknown number of civilians.
According to Timbuktu's mayor, the announcement caused nearly all of Timbuktu's Christian population to flee the city.
The curfew imposed by the dictatorship forced the remaining Nueva Canción scene, now rebranded as Canto Nuevo, into "semiclandestine peñas, while alternative groove disseminated in juvenile fiestas".
Initially called the Somali Salvation Front (SSF; later the Somali Salvation Democratic Front, SSDF), which would soon oppose the Somali government.
Several decades later, the anti-Catholic Gordon Riots swept through London and claimed hundreds of lives; at the time, a proclamation painted on the wall of Newgate prison announced that the inmates had been freed by the authority of "His Majesty, King Mob".
However, 5,000 US troops still remained in Kabul, and NATO troops were still present at the Hamid Karzai International Airport.
He also praised Trump for breaking from Republican practices of trying to "play ball and help the system work" and instead "trying to move all of the levers of this machine that he can move", though also stating "what he’s doing is not at all what I would do with an opportunity like this.
Colonist-native ethnic tension in Liberia had been prevalent since the arrival of the Americo-Liberians in the early 1800s.
Other authors have upheld brutalism and socialist realism as modernist art forms which exist beyond simply being physical manifestations of totalitarian ideology.
The Council on Foreign Relations began in 1917 with a group of New York academics who were asked by President Woodrow Wilson to offer options for the foreign policy of the United States in the interwar period.
The resolution is considered part of the emergence of an anti-communist political culture in the European Union.
The final composition of the People's Government, its powers and actions, are to be sanctioned by a Diet elected on the basis of universal equal direct suffrage by secret ballot.
In the 1990s, it had one of the world's lowest rates for dependence on petroleum, using hydroelectric power and coal instead of imported oil.
Evidence suggests that support for female genital mutilation remains high, especially among rural and less well educated groups, although it has been declining in recent years.
Whlle Al-Qaeda in Iraq controlled territory it isn't considered to be a quasi-state like the Islamic State in Iraq or the Islamic State.
The majority of French historians and all postwar French governments have contended that this vote by the National Assembly was illegal.
In December 2021, Brown, who is a Republican, said he had remained quiet during its proliferation because he had "zero desire to be involved in politics," before expressing his wish for it to be used in a positive context instead.
Nor the MIM (Maoist International Movement) and other subversive [or front] organizations, nor those underground.
But let our might be our law of right, for what is weak proves itself to be useless." The related idea of "woe to the conquered" is stated in Livy's History of Rome, in which the similar Latin phrase "vae victis" is first recorded.
Task Force 373 (TF373) was a joint military commando unit that was active in the War in Afghanistan.
Callers claiming to represent the group contacted several Afghan officials in May 2012, including Zabul Province representative Dawood Hasas, and threatened retaliation should they vote in favor of a "strategic partnership" negotiated between Hamid Karzai and U.S.
The use of Starlink has enabled the organization to communicate in areas where security forces have no communications.
With the ratification of the new constitution in 1984, the PRC was dissolved and replaced with the Interim National Assembly (INA) on 22 July 1984.
The Thirst For Annihilation: Georges Bataille and Virulent Nihilism (An Essay in Atheistic Religion) (London and New York: Routledge, 1992).
He argued that oligarchy is unavoidable in any organization due to the practical demands of organizing.
Nuon Chea ordered the cadres in control of S-21 to kill all remaining inmates prior to it being captured by the Vietnamese.
Until the passing of both the resolutions, sanctions on the Taliban and Al-Qaeda had been handled by the same committee.
Even members of the volksdeutsche (ethnic Germans) living in the protectorate complained their living standards had been higher under Czechoslovakia, which was quite a surprise to most of them, who expected their living standards to rise under German rule.
The students protested for the implementation of several demands including an end to Soviet occupation.
The State of Burma (Burmese: ဗမာနိုင်ငံတော်, MLCTS: ba.ma nuingngamtau; Japanese: ビルマ國, Biruma-koku) was a Japanese puppet state established in 1943 during the Japanese occupation of Burma in World War II.
The event was attended by fringe groups like Nordic Resistance Movement from Scandinavia but also by more mainstream MEPs from Golden Dawn and National Democratic Party of Germany.
See also Class struggle Ostracism Persona non grata Public enemy Social death Struggle session Untermensch == References ==
The victims were killed in concentration and extermination camps and in ghettos, and through mass shootings.
They tend to be more fanatical and violent, and they often bring skills such as the ability to post more sophisticated videos on the Internet or bombmaking expertise.
By the mid-to-late 1970s, Saddam's power within the Ba'ath Party and the government grew; he became de facto leader of the country, although al-Bakr remained as president, Ba'ath Party leader and Revolutionary Command Council chairman.
In 2019, under the leadership of Akhundzada, Taliban won the Battle of Darzab by defeating the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant's Khorasan branch.
In the summer of 2006, Afghan officials were deciding on the timetable for the re-construction of the statues.
In late 2015, the Israeli political journalist Gideon Levy wrote that the Israeli–Palestinian conflict has led to the decay of the civil society within Israel, with an ultranationalist movement that "bases its power on incitement to hatred" using "folkloric religion" gaining ground over decades.
Economic prospects in the near future are discouraging because of widespread internal poverty and the burden of foreign debt, coupled with continued low hydrocarbon prices and reduced Chinese purchases of natural gas.
In August 2016, the Dadullah Front announced Dadullah's nephew Mullah Emdadullah Mansoor as its new leader, and threatened to take revenge on the Taliban.
This natural disaster far exceeded the drought of 1973–74, which had contributed to the downfall of Emperor Haile Selassie.
Chervenkov's Stalinist policy led to a massive industrialisation and development of the energy sector, which remained one of Bulgaria's most advanced economic sectors.
Literally God is not, because He transcends being." Such a penetrating—and Zen—mystical view, arrived at so long ago, will be hard to top; in my own experiences with psychedelic drugs I have had precious tiny illumination compared with Erigena.
Government – Whereas the classical totalitarian government was an ordered, idealized and coordinated whole, inverted totalitarianism is a managed democracy which applies managerial skills to basic democratic political institutions.
The Communist Party of Vietnam (CPV) has elected at least one active military figure to its CPV Politburo since 1986.
Resolution Observations The Security Council noted the continuing activities of Osama bin Laden and the Al-Qaeda network in supporting international terrorism.
The social upheavals that occurred from the New Culture Movement - as well as the May Fourth Movement that followed it - largely focused around the dismantling of traditional Han Chinese cultural norms in which the majority of the populace were illiterate and largely uneducated.
The capital city itself was left encircled after Taliban forces had captured Mihtarlam, Sharana, Gardez, Asadabad, and other cities as well as districts in the east.
Zhivkov was promoted to Head of State (Chairman of the State Council) and Stanko Todorov became prime minister.
On 30 September 1990, the Ministry of Agriculture announced that it would increase loans to farmers by 100 percent, and would subsidise machinery and tools.
Khooni Chowk, officially known as Green Square or Green Chowk is a traffic intersection and a landmark in Mingora, Swat District, Pakistan.
Corporate statism or state corporatism is a political culture and a form of corporatism whereby corporate groups form the basis of society and the state.
The kebeles did carry out some housing redistribution and welfare programs, but they were unable to provide a sufficient set of retail outlets for food to offset the shortages and hoarding.
The Polish People's Republic was a unitary communist state established in the country after the Red Army's takeover of Polish territory from German occupation in World War II.
On his orders, the Taliban administration has prevented most teenage girls from returning to secondary school education.
State security bureaus and public security bureaus are functionally co-located within the same buildings as each other.
Acting under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, the Security Council exempted funds necessary for basic expenses such as food, rent, medical care and professional fees and extraordinary expenses from financial sanctions against Osama bin Laden, the Taliban and Al-Qaeda.
Although the Gestapo had a relatively small number of personnel (32,000 in 1944), "it maximized these small resources through informants and a large number of denunciations from the local population".
Exile and trial In September 1944, a new collaborationist government was established at Vienna, formed by former collaborationist ministers.
The Taliban justified the destruction on religious grounds, stating that depictions of living beings violated Islamic principles—reasoning similar to their later destruction of the Buddhas of Bamiyan in 2001.
Human rights The Assad regime's human rights record has been widely criticized by international organizations for its virtual absence.
Nagy's most controversial decision took place on 1 November when he announced that Hungary intended to withdraw from the Warsaw Pact and proclaim Hungarian neutrality.
In Socialism: Utopian and Scientific, Friedrich Engels argued that state ownership does not do away with capitalism by itself, but rather it would be the final stage of capitalism, consisting of ownership and management of large-scale production and communication by the bourgeois state.
In early 1938, in the wake of the Blomberg–Fritsch affair, Hitler asserted control of the military-foreign policy apparatus, dismissing Neurath as foreign minister and appointing himself as War Minister.
China was the most important trading partner, but commerce amounting to a few million dollars was also conducted with France, the United Kingdom, and with the United States through a Hong Kong intermediary.
The book is Bell's first and was published on December 8, 2022, by Whisk(e)y Tit, a Brooklyn-based literary press.
The Ustaše committed their deeds in a bestial manner not only against males of conscript age, but especially against helpless old people, women and children.
By 1937 the Japanese judges and lawyers in Manchukuo were either disillusioned Pan-Asian idealists or more commonly cynical opportunists and mediocre hacks who lacked the talent to get ahead in Japan.
Despite these relations, however, Barre's administration was also one of the few governments on the continent that maintained regular and extensive contacts with South Africa's apartheid regime.
In December 1932 Ahimier, along with Weisl, Gruenberg, and his supporters organized a strike-breaking "union" at the Froumine Biscuit Factory in Jerusalem by providing scabs.
See also List of United Nations Security Council Resolutions 1401 to 1500 (2002–2003) Terrorist financing References External links Works related to United Nations Security Council Resolution 1452 at Wikisource Text of the Resolution at undocs.org
The working class was a negligible factor because of the evacuation of the urban areas and the idling of most of the country's few factories.
Funding methods of them include ransoming captives, taxing locals, smuggling weapons, and extorting human and drug traffickers.
An April 27, 2005, edition of Voice of Jihad included an article asking sympathizers not to appropriate the term "Voice of Jihad" for their own publications.
Early followers included Rudolf Hess, the former air force ace Hermann Göring, and the army captain Ernst Röhm.
It condemned Al-Qaeda and other associated groups for ongoing terrorist attacks and reiterated its overall condemnation of all terrorist acts.
On 26 May 2012, the MNLA and Ansar Dine announced a pact in which they would merge to form an Islamist state called the "Islamic Republic of Azawad".
Thus, with large popular support in the countryside, the capital Phnom Penh finally fell on 17 April 1975 to the Khmer Rouge.
By 2001 following years of civil war, telecommunications was virtually a non-existent sector, but by 2016 it had grown to a $2 billion industry, with 22 million mobile phone subscribers and 5 million internet users.
Edmund Glaise-Horstenau, the German Plenipotentiary General, blamed Italy for demanding too much from the NDH, while Galeazzo Ciano wrote in his diary that the Germans had such control over the NDH that the Croatian economy had become an Italian-German problem.
Werth identifies four categories of people that became targets of Stalinist violence in the Soviet Union from 1930 until around 1952.
Following its initial announcement, the group claimed responsibility for a number of attacks in Pakistan, including the Islamabad court attack, before merging into the Jamaat-ul-Ahrar group in August 2014.
Organizations such as La Cagoule opposed the Third Republic, particularly while the left-wing Popular Front was in power.
The restored government set up the Trials of Collaborationists (I Diki ton Dosilogon) to judge collaborators.
Corporate statism differs from corporate nationalism in that it is a social mode of organization rather than economic nationalism operating by means of private business corporations.
A report published by Human Rights Watch in 2018 revealed that Sudan has made no meaningful attempts to provide accountability for past and current violations.
The territory of Jama'at Nusrat al-Islam wal-Muslimin (JNIM) refers to the territories in the Sahel region under the de-facto control or influence of the Al-Qaeda aligned JNIM in the Sahel where it has waged insurgencies against various countries.
Their respective forces barricaded themselves in Camp Crame and Camp Aguinaldo which were near each other on either side of Epifanio de los Santos Avenue (EDSA) in Quezon City.
After various allegations against Bokassa including the beating of school children as well as cannibalism, France intervened with two operations that sought to remove Bokassa from office, the final one being Operation Barracuda.
After Italy became isolated in 1936, the government had little choice but to work with Germany to regain a stable bargaining position in international affairs and reluctantly abandoned its support of Austrian independence from Germany.
Ideology The Revisionist Maximalist borrowed principles from totalitarianism, fascism and inspiration from Józef Piłsudski's Poland and Benito Mussolini's Italy.
Taliban rule During the Taliban occupation of the Swat District, it became notorious as the place where the corpses of people summarily executed by the group were displayed each morning.
According to the German Federal Agency for Civic Education, nearly all Islamist terrorists are Salafists, but not all Salafists are terrorists.
Peru Reportedly one of Juan Velasco Alvarado's main goals was to militarily reconquer the lands lost by Peru to Chile in the War of the Pacific.
The system of elected parliaments is a demagogic system because votes can be bought and manipulated, that is, parliamentary representation is a fraud.
Both Lenin and Bordiga did not see socialism as a separate mode of production from communism, but rather just as how communism looks as it emerges from capitalism before it has "developed on its own foundations".
Those Nationalist Clubs, so named because of their desire to nationalize industry, were strong supporters of the populists, who wanted the nationalisation of the railroad and telegraph systems.
Along with the Handmaids, much of society is now grouped into classes that dictate their freedoms and duties.
Reports are based on the official ISPR accounts and news media sources in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA.
In Ohio, the Ohio Revised Code section 1545 provides for general park districts, often known as "metro parks", in addition to "township park districts" allowed under ORC section 511.18.
However they urge the government to ensure the national park is set up in a way that allows it to emphasise tackling climate change, promoting species recovery, maintaining community resilience, modern governance, and that its boundaries consider the biodiversity of the area's species and habitats.
Geometry and interrelations First and foremost, the use of classical order structures, such as perspective, proportion, symmetry, circles, quadrilaterals, and triangles, was a reflection of the strong connection and admiration for the aesthetics of antiquity during the Renaissance.
Boom and decline At the beginning of the 20th century, the clock industry initially prospered but then collapsed as the First World War broke out and, subsequently, the Russian and American markets broke away.
The first (in 2004) to identify periurban parks and list their functions (environmental, social, economic).
Kirschwasser is colourless because it is either not aged in wood or was aged in barrels made of ash.
A free 27-minute SOPLAY/SOPARC Introduction, Practice, and Assessment Training DVD is available from Active Living Research.
The new methods meant many workers became redundant and brought higher competition from the newly industrialized countries.
along national parkways such as the Blue Ridge Parkway, which has numerous individually named overlooks for viewing the Blue Ridge Mountains and their valleys.
Development Background The plan was first announced in August 2016 at a presentation to the news media in the CityPlace neighbourhood, south of the Railway Lands near Bathurst Street.
In 1850, the Duchy of Baden founded the first school for clockmakers in Furtwangen in order to improve the standard of production and make it more efficient.
350 new species and sakheskhvaobis saplings were added to the garden nursery, which will soon be moved to permanent areas in the park.
Transportation The park is accessible within walking distance south from Weiwuying Station of Kaohsiung Metro.
Finn and Jake live in the post-apocalyptic Land of Ooo, where they interact with the other main characters of the show: Princess Bubblegum, The Ice King, Marceline the Vampire Queen, Lumpy Space Princess, and BMO.
To estimate how much physical activity a park generates, it is possible to aggregate the total METs across park users.
The basic requirements advocated for the mental and physical well being of children were good food, air, sunshine and exercise.
The belief—sometimes called "keyhole tenure", and which persisted as recently as the early 20th century—was actually a fallacy, but to stop landless peasants unlawfully squatting on commons, the Erection of Cottages Act 1588 (31 Eliz.
The island has hosted many business retreats and events such as the Norwegian Chess Tournament in 2015.
This was either done to wield power, or protect the sanctity of the knowledge from getting diluted or misused.
The result is a beautiful shared space for these residents, who enjoy a heightened sense of security and increased property values.
By the early 1900s, the front yard had become an accepted, "buffer between the private home and the public street".
Park systems are included, but not ranked because park systems are networks that contain multiple parks.
The two meanings of the term, as the ornamental parts of a garden, and as a commercial place of entertainment, coexisted in English from at least the 17th century.
People in the German-speaking region where it originated usually serve it after dinner, as a digestif.
Desire paths typically emerge as convenient shortcuts where more deliberately constructed paths take a longer or more circuitous route, have gaps, or are non-existent.
Industrial production The heart core of Black forest clock production was an area that extended from Triberg via Furtwangen to St.
The island is currently run by Aasmund's son, Olav Bryn, who plants and redesigns the garden every year.
There is also an extensive trail system running around the lake that is able to be hiked year-round.
Features Key features in the gardens include: Fountains: The Fountain of Venus and the Bee (1933, attributed to Prof.
Comprehensive greenway systems or networks, usually based on natural landforms such as valleys or ridges but sometimes simply an opportunistic assemblage of greenways and open spaces of various kinds to create an alternative municipal or regional green infrastructure.
Similar to dressage, teams of four riders were qualified at either the World Equestrian Games (WEG) or through a regional competition.
In 1927, the Maryland-National Capital Park and Planning Commission was formed to plan and acquire parklands along stream valley corridors in the then-rural northern and eastern suburbs of Washington, D.C.
The frescoed walls of the rooms of the house belong to this phase, with red and yellow panels and small figures in an architectural framework.
The gardens take their name from the Bajulo, a magistrate who represented the sovereign authority following the Norman conquest of southern Italy.
Great Britain was the most successful nation, topping the medal table with three golds and five medals in total.
Planning approval and proposed route In January 2023, the project was given planning approval for the first section between Camden Gardens and Royal College Street.
Legal status and ownership "A Vision for Little Marlow Lakes Country Park" in 2002 set out local authority supplementary planning guidance which states that "Land ownership of the Gravel Pits is predominantly private and fragmented" and "has a complex distribution of land ownership.
These game preserves evolved into landscaped parks set around mansions and country houses from the sixteenth century onwards.
References Sources This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
The subsequent expansion of the city outside the walls of the castrum followed these routes, giving a disorderly appearance to the urban plan.
Types of neighborhood parks include mini-parks, or pocket parks, and may be further described by their predominant recreational offering.
Viewing points may also be found on hill or mountain tops or on rocky spurs overlooking a valley and reached via a hiking trail.
Tree cover is dominated by species such as holm oak (Quercus ilex) and pines, with undergrowth including ivy (Hedera helix), while hedges are formed by box (Buxus sempervirens), laurel (Laurus nobilis), and myrtle (Myrtus communis).
Part of the foundation for this project consisted of reclaiming 22 miles (35 km) of unused rail trails.
A typical kirsch chocolate consists of no more than one milliliter of kirsch, surrounded by milk or (more usually) dark chocolate with a film of hard sugar between the two parts, which acts as an impermeable casing for the liquid content and compensates for the lack of sweetness typical of kirsch.
A marine park is a designated park consisting of an area of sea (or lake) set aside to achieve ecological sustainability, promote marine awareness and understanding, enable marine recreational activities, and provide benefits for Indigenous peoples and coastal communities.
Hammen sponsored House Bill 1533 to amend the Baltimore City Charter, allowing the city to close alleyways and lease them to interested parties.
These are found in the early architecture of most cultures, from Eurasia to Pre-Columbian architecture.
The registration authorities are the county councils, and when there is no ownership, a local council, such as a parish council is normally given guardianship by vesting the property under section 8 the act.
Access to cheaper apartments on the upper floors was almost always via separate stairs entered from the outside.
A mandala vatika (Sanskrit: मण्डलवाटिका, romanized: maṇḍalavāṭikā) is a garden with architecture that is designed per Vedic geometry.
A park system, also known as an open space system, is a network of parks and other green spaces that are connected by public walkways, bridleways or cycleways.
After touring the gardens, guests eat at the restaurant on the island with a rotating buffet prepared by their chef, Andre Mulder.
''Upper Circum-Bug Lands'') is a planned national park in Ukraine, located in Khmelnytskyi Oblast, in the western part of the country.
A recreation center is a facility that supports myriad park activities, including sports and other recreational activities appropriate to the population or community that uses the park.
The cities of Urbandale, Clive, and West Des Moines all are mostly in Polk County, but have parks located in other counties which are not counted towards parks in Polk County.
IUCNcategory PRO (proposed) In 1998 Karimpuzha was listed by the first World Heritage Forest meeting in Berastagi, Indonesia, as being of potential interest as a World Heritage Forest.
After the handover of Taiwan from Japan to the Republic of China in 1945, the Kuomintang government continued the military purpose of the camp until 1979, when the camp was deemed no longer suitable for military purposes.
The Vauxhall arranged masquerades, fire works, and performances by actors, athletes, circus artists and all sorts of artists passing through town.
They include: Memoirs of the Court of England during the Reign of the Stuarts (1840) Memoirs of the Court of England from the Revolution of 1688 to the Death of George II (1843) George Selwyn and his Contemporaries (1843, new ed.
Park police are a type of security police who function as a full-service law enforcement agency with responsibilities and jurisdiction in park areas primarily located in cities and other urban areas.
Many of these early playgrounds were designed by important landscape architect, Frederick Law Olmsted who was earlier involved with the highly influential design of Central Park, New York.
These are used during worship and meditation, and sanctified with specific rituals and offerings to bring in blessings and auspiciousness.
State statutes often have a general law to provide for park districts' creation, dissolution, geographic borders, and annexation; the selection of governing boards, often referred to as park boards; and the criteria for levying property taxes on behalf of the district.
Community Greens, sometimes referred to as backyard commons, urban commons, or pocket neighborhoods, are shared open green spaces on the inside of city blocks, created either when residents merge backyard space or reclaim underutilized urban land such as vacant lots and alleyways.
In 321 BC the Partition of Triparadisus was signed at Triparidisus in Syria, a vast pleasure grounds complex in Syria.
They have also shaped the outdoor educational profession in other ways: in 1983, at a meeting of the Association of Experiential Education, women educators met around a picnic table at midnight to discuss the problems facing women in the field of outdoor education.
The Forge: Lemont Quarries Adventure Park is an adventure park that opened July 17, 2020 in Lemont, Illinois, a suburb of Chicago.
Control of the garden changed hands a few times, before it fell in Zugdidi City Council, who turned it into a culture and leisure park hosting a varieties of events, entertainment, and attractions, but the care and development of the plant collection was neglected.
Entrants included Adjaye Associates, AL_A, AHMM, Asif Khan, Coffey Architects, Cullinan Studio, CZWG, David Kohn, Grant Associates, Hawkins\Brown, Jamie Fobert Architects, LDA, Lifschutz Davidson Sandilands, Migrants Bureau, Weston Williamson, and Zaha Hadid Architects.
The Société des établissements de plein air du Québec (French pronunciation: [sɔsjete dez‿etablismɑ̃ də plɛn‿ɛʁ dy kebɛk], Quebec Outdoor Establishments Company), also known as Sépaq, is the agency of the Government of Quebec that manages parks and wildlife reserves.
Greenprinting often involves use of state-of-the-art maps and models created with Geographic Information System (GIS) software that combines layers of spatial and demographic information to guide growth management efforts.
Flower gardens combine plants of different heights, colors, textures, and fragrances to create interest and delight the senses.
Fort Nelson Park stands in the vicinity today, a pocket park housing a granite monument commemorating the fort.
In the second half of the 18th century, technical progress led to winding wheels being produced in yellow brass.
Development and design Pocket parks typically develop on small, solitary, irregularly shaped, and physically damaged lots.
Such sites are often used for experimental archaeology, and as shooting locations for documentaries and historical-fiction films and television.
High-quality kirschwasser should be served around 16 °C (61 °F), warmed by the hands as with brandy.
In digital environments where natural wear does not exist, designers use "artificial" desire lines to study behavior, such as: Website heat maps to track cursor movement and clicks.
In response to continuing attacks from Native Americans and the threat of British attacks during the Revolutionary War, Fort Nelson was constructed between what is currently Main Street and the river, with its main gate near Seventh Street.
Recreation Sports facilities and activities in the area include an athletics track, angling for members of the Marlow Angling Club, open water swimming, paddleboarding and water skiing.
It is a popular destination for all those who wish to have an outdoor picnic, enjoy some outdoor activities and games or even just to have a relaxing day out with friends and family.
Corbelling supporting upper stories and particularly supporting projecting corner turrets subsequently became a characteristic of the Scottish baronial style.
History The Balio Gardens were created in 1872 by Count Agostino Sieri Pepoli who leased the Balio Towers and grazing land from the city in exchange for restoring the towers and developing a public garden.
Its purpose is to honor all veterans from Cayuga County that have served in the United States military from the Revolutionary war through current deployments.
Robert was sentenced to seven years in prison, and claimed his brother knew nothing of the cannabis operation.
It was composed of an earth terrace, or tai, which served as an observation platform in the center of a large square park.
After a 2007 Complete Streets redesign in parts of New York City, there was a nearly 50% increase in retail sales on 9th Avenue in Manhattan and a nearly 50% decrease in commercial vacancies in Union Square.
In the Middle Ages, the garden also played a very important role, but in another sense: it was walled, protected from the outside.
produced one of the earliest products of mass-produced cast-iron seating in America, an example of which is held by the Smithsonian Institution as inv.
Mandla Plant Fossils National Park Indroda Dinosaur and Fossil Park, Gandhinagar, Gujarat National Fossil Wood Park, Tiruvakkarai National Fossil Wood Park, Sathanur Akal Wood Fossil Park, Jaisalmer, Rajasthan Amkhoi Fossil Park, West Bengal.
Mount Phillips is a mountain located on the border of Jasper National Park (Alberta) and Mount Robson Provincial Park (British Columbia).
Between directly after the signage was posted and several months after, the usage increased four times.
On 1 July 1870, the name reverted to Camden Town, only to be resited in December of that year further west.
On June 26, 2009 King Bhumibol Adulyadej (Rama IX) named the park "Nagaraphirom", meaning "delightful park for the townspeople".
Often, schools have a taller, more advanced playground for older schoolchildren and a lower playground with a lower risk of falling for younger children.
Dressage Teams are made up of three riders, all of whom are also competing concurrently for individual medals.
Therefore, those competing for individual berths completed one dressage test and cross-country round, and two jumping rounds.
The European Union sets a minimum of 37.5% ABV (75 proof) for products of this kind; kirschwasser typically has an alcohol content of 40%–50% ABV (80–100 proof).
Beautiful settings such as the Golden Age, the gardens of the Hesperides, the Nymphs and the Muses, or the Elysian fields of Homer and Virgil were depicted in the literary works studied for designing these spaces.
Other common species include double-crested cormorant, great black-backed gull, herring gull, little penguin, black guillemot, Leach's storm petrel, black guillemot and black-legged kittiwake.
Additionally, community outreach that is promoted and achieved through educational opportunities of Complete Streets principles helps establish community social connectivity and encourages participation in active transportation modes.
This attack caused such panic in Rome that Pompey the Great arranged for the tribune Aulus Gabinius to pass a law, the lex Gabinia, to allow Pompey to raise an army and destroy the pirates.
Black Forest clockmakers The German Clock Museum (German: Deutsches Uhrenmuseum) also has in its collection some early Black Forest clocks with wooden cogwheels as well as a number of industrially produced Black Forest clocks.
In May 2018, the NDP government announced that Alberta was going to "create the largest protected area of boreal forest in the world by setting aside four new provincial parks and expanding another along its northeastern borders".
Structure Structurally, they consist of dry-stone lava stone enclosures, almost always circular in shape.
Outlooks: Viewpoints over Trapani, the Aegadian Islands, the Stagnone Lagoon, Monte Cofano, and the surrounding landscape.
Littke observed that "The High Line is undoubtedly loved, and it is a successful place in many ways", and that its success proves that "elevated parks can bring 'new' nature into cities without occupying ground-floor space".
The Donnafugata Garden On 12 September 2008, the Fondo Ambiente Italiano (Italian Environment Fund) received a donation of a Pantellerian garden from the Sicilian winery Donnafugata.
And there's a lot of that in the show, I think." Executive producer Fred Seibert compared the show's animation style to that of Felix the Cat and various Max Fleischer cartoons, but said that its world is also equally inspired by Dungeons & Dragons and video games.
Shilparatna, a text from the sixteenth century, states that flower gardens or public parks should be located in the northern portion of a town.
Fishing and recreation In addition to water supply purposes, Cedar Lake is managed for bass (largemouth and striped) and crappie fishing.
Events Medals were awarded in the following competitions: Individual dressage Team dressage Individual jumping Team jumping Individual eventing Team eventing Qualification Each event has its own qualification rules, but generally rely on FEI rankings.
A proposed boundary map was released in mid-2024, with another public consultation taking place in late 2024, and another final one in late 2025.
The Department of Parks and Recreation (DPR), also known as Board of Parks and Recreation or Park Board, is used by many government bodies to describe the parts of their organizations that oversee public parks and recreational public works.
Many of them serve as principal arterials and some (like Storrow Drive, Memorial Drive, the Alewife Brook Parkway and the VFW Parkway) have evolved into regional commuter routes.
Land tenure of a single ecological area can be complex, with multiple public and private entities owning adjacent properties.
For the next few decades, the park grew in its statuary and amenities and, by 1851, the park became completely illuminated.
In Richmond Park's Pembroke Lodge gardens, there is a memorial to the poet James Thomson, who died at Richmond in 1748.
His poem on Mary, Queen of Scots was published about 1831, and was followed by a collection of poems entitled Tales of the Dead.
The former quarry is of particular aesthetic interest as a bold, natural form visibly contrasting with its immediate surrounds and visually linked to the large outcrops on St Paul's Terrace.
According to a January 7, 2019 article in The Globe and Mail, some residents of Rocky Mountain House, a town of 7,000, led by United Conservative Party (UCP) Member of the Legislative Assembly of Alberta (MLA) for Rimbey-Rocky Mountain House-Sundre, Jason Nixon, oppose the creation of the park.
The site previously hosted the Pulzor neighborhood, whose residents were primarily engaged in floriculture, producing rosewater and various herbal infusions from flowers and plant roots.
Réserves fauniques (Wildlife reserves) - manages 15 wildlife reserves in forested and wilderness areas.
Plants of the Garden Introduced Plants Wetlands Plants Arid Plants References External links Media related to Zugdidi botanical garden at Wikimedia Commons
Since 2020, the Lorain Public Library System operates a converted shipping container as a "Little Library on the Lake" which lends beach and sports equipment to library card holders.
Origin and production Because morellos were originally grown in the Black Forest regions of Germany, kirschwasser is believed to have originated there.
On 11 February 2025, Buckinghamshire Council adopted its Buckinghamshire Local Cycling and Walking Infrastructure Plan, and approved prioritisation of the Haddenham-Thame Greenway.
In the 1820s, the park was destroyed and divided into residential areas, and in 1906, the Vauxhall building was torn down.
Western gardens are almost universally based on plants, with garden, which etymologically implies enclosure, often signifying a shortened form of botanical garden.
All DVD releases can be purchased on the Cartoon Network Shop, and the individual episodes can be downloaded from both the iTunes Store and Amazon.com.
The MRC recommended that the city of Sept-Îles should not accept any new commercial projects on the islands.
These small urban spaces served as low-cost interventions to improve the quantity and quality of community gathering spaces and recreational facilities in dense urban areas.
History Alberta's system of provincial parks began with the striking of a committee on parks by then Premier J.
A special authority can be set up, under the joint jurisdiction of two or more government bodies or as an independent park district to administer parks.
In 1835, the most noteworthy reformulation of the park was initiated by Malaquias Ferreira Leal, architect for the Municipality of Lisbon.
Features The entire park is spread over 200 acres (0.81 km2) of land located in the neighbourhood of Sakchi.
It is one of the five largest urban parks of India along with Cubbon Park (Bangalore), Shivaji Park (Mumbai), Chandrashekhar Azad Park or Alfred Park (Allahabad) and Maidan (Kolkata).
One such entrance, at Royal College Street, will be through the former building of the first Camden Road station which is now a Grade II listed building.
See also Park rangers List of protective service agencies List of law enforcement agencies in the United Kingdom, Crown Dependencies and British Overseas Territories#Parks police Category:Park police departments of the United States == References ==
In instances where a parklet is not intended to accommodate people, it may provide greenery, art, or some other visual amenity.
It began as part of the Iloilo River Rehabilitation Project in Iloilo City, later evolving into a popular venue for jogging and leisure, and is now lined with mangroves and other forms of riverine biodiversity.
On 11 December 2019, a Supreme Court decision put the future of some village greens at risk in England and Wales.
Analysis A Report produced by the Nous Group found that the establishment of the Great Forest National Park with three different investment scenarios could generate as much as 379,000 additional visitors to the region.
Russia In Russia, central square (Russian: центра́льная пло́щадь, romanised: tsentráĺnaya plóshchad́) is a common term for an open area in the heart of the town.
As the university expanded the botanical garden was replaced by Universitetsplatsen in the 1880s and the new university building, located just north of Kungshuset.
Civic group which advocated environmental protection and arts began to lobby for an ecological metropolitan park.
Males of the Steller's Jay in particular seek out territory near picnic tables because of the superior feeding opportunities.
Applications Monitoring of park environment and park uses Considering its multiple benefits to society and nature, an urban park is a crucial place for promoting physical activity.
Numerous cities worldwide have looked into or started construction of elevated parks, including London, Washington, DC, Jersey City, Chicago, Philadelphia, San Francisco, São Paulo, and Rotterdam.
Operating in secret for 2 years, the operation was undertaken by Robert DeRosa, brother of landowner Vince DeRosa, claiming to run two companies called Ontario Pallet and Barrie Fish.
The popularity of clocks from Black Forest grew, and plates and clock faces became more sophisticated.
The Saint Lawrence Global Observatory (OGSL) and the Institute of Ocean Sciences (ISMER) of the Université du Québec à Rimouski participated.
It has been proposed since 2002 to be established in the Tenasserim Hills over an area of 680 mi2 (1,800 km2) and extended by 540 mi2 (1,400 km2) in 2004.
Then in the modern times, the beloved gardens of Gertrude Jekyll (Munstead Wood), Vita Sackville-West (Sissinghurst Castle Garden) and Major Lawrence Johnston (Hidcote Manor Garden).
25) is an act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom that consolidated enactments relating to open spaces in England and Wales and Ireland.
Inclusive playgrounds Universally designed playgrounds are created to be accessible to all children.
The Parkway West (I-376) runs through the Fort Pitt Tunnel and links Downtown to Pittsburgh International Airport, southbound I-79, Imperial, Pennsylvania, and westbound US 22/US 30.
It was originally scheduled to open on May 25, with a grand opening scheduled for June 27, 2020, but due to the COVID-19 pandemic this was pushed back to July 2020.
I look forward to seeing it develop." The project started fundraising the construction costs in August 2019.
Responses were received from across the UK, with the highest numbers from Denbighshire, Gwynedd, Flintshire, and Powys.
The word mandala literally means a circular, symmetrical pattern that is used in Hindu and Buddhist symbolism.
In the vicinity of Jubilee other parks —Tata Steel Zoological Park and Nicco Water Jubilee Park are located.
In 1997 United Nations Environment Programme's World Conservation Monitoring Centre listed Karimpuza as a Protected area that overlaps with the South Western Ghats montane rain forests Ecoregion.
Given that this valley is inhabited by forest-dependent tribes, sanctuary rather than national park status is more appropriate in the short-term.
(Kentucky was part of Virginia at the time.) The fort was used as a courthouse and jail until one was built.
References in the act to charity law have been updated on several occasions, including by the Charities Act 1960, the Charities Act 1993, the Charities Act 2006, and the Charities Act 2011.
Greenprinting is the creation of conservation scenarios that help communities make informed conservation decisions.
In some cases this will also feature sweeping lawns and scattered trees; the basic difference between a country house's park and its garden is that the park is grazed by animals, but they are excluded from the garden.
The City of Barrie had opposed NAA's rezoning application on the basis that it would use a large portion of the city's scarce industrial lands, yet only contribute low-wage retail jobs to the local economy.
Restoration The gardens were restored and enhanced between 2019 and 2024, following the allocation of €1.6 million in funding secured by the municipality of Erice.
The WEG awarded five berths, the regions six (America: two, Europe: two, Asia: two), and the hosts (Great Britain).
Proposal The project was envisioned by a geographer, Oliver O'Brien, in 2015 and promoted by Camden Town Unlimited.
In the 1870s, lawn ornaments became a popular front yard feature, with wrought iron sculpture, bird baths and gazebos being particularly popular.
Through this community organization, the development of pocket parks promotes grassroots planning and strengthens relationships between residents and local authorities.
Text of the Open Spaces Act 1906 as originally enacted or made within the United Kingdom, from legislation.gov.uk.
A park district is a form of local special-purpose district for providing public parks and recreation in or near its geographic boundaries.
Only one portion of this subdivision was sold, that on the corner of Water and Love Streets to a Mrs Kate Downey.
John Heneage Jesse (1809 – 7 July 1874), English historian, son of Edward Jesse, was educated at Eton and became a clerk in the secretary's department of the Admiralty.
Following this, in 2009, Buckinghamshire County Council referred to local “overwhelming support for a route between the two settlements.” Thame’s dependence on Parkway station has meant that a path to Haddenham has been a regular aspiration of Thame Town Council's annual Neighbourhood Plans.
All riders compete in the Grand Prix, which serves as the first round of both the individual and team medals.
It runs concurrently with the individual competition (riders running over the same course) so team riders are also competing for individual medals.
Present Today, the island is visited by over 30,000 guests each year and functions as a popular tourist site, complete with a garden tour and lunch/dinner in the on-island restaurant.
Like the Playground Association, the Crèche and Kindergarten Association were successful in achieving local and Queensland Government sponsorship and funding as well as funding from various national philanthropic trust funds.
This system of linear parks was designed by Frederick Law Olmsted to connect the Boston Common and Public Garden (1837) to Franklin Park (Boston), also known as the "crown jewel" of Olmstead's work in Boston.
While the original and most common material for picnic tables is wooden boards, they may be made of anything from split logs to concrete to recycled HDPE plastic.
The appearance of safety encourages unreasonable risk-taking in children, who might take more reasonable risks if they correctly understood that it is possible to break a bone on the soft surfaces under most modern equipment.
Norman Collie after Donald "Curly" Phillips, a Jasper area outfitter and guide who made the disputed first ascent of Mount Robson in 1909.
Typically, urban wilds are home to native vegetation and animal life as well as some introduced species.
Other uses Residential There are residences in the parish of Little Marlow, as well as Westhorpe House and the Westhorpe Park Mobile Home Park.
When part of the ground floor was occupied by more prestigious apartments or workshops, entrances to the private internal areas were often flanked by tabernae.
The urban wilds prioritized by municipalities tend to be partial wetlands that perform a range of ecological services while contributing to the biological diversity of the region.
George Rogers Clark had directed Linn to move the militia post to the mainland from its original off-shore location at Corn Island.
See also Greenway (landscape) Landscape architecture Landscape planning National Park Service#National Park System of the United States Principles of intelligent urbanism == References ==
Flora and ecology The gardens host a mixture of cultivated and spontaneous vegetation, including both ornamental species and native flora characteristic of Monte Erice.
Flor og Fjære is a collection of man-made tropical gardens on the island of Sør-Hidle outside of Stavanger, Norway.
Fort-on-Shore Fort-on-Shore (38°15.560′N 85°46.148′W), built in 1778 by William Linn, was the first on-shore fort on the Ohio River in the area of what is now downtown Louisville.
Bobur Park ( full name: Zahiriddin Muhammad Bobur Culture and Recreation Park) is a park located in Namangan, Uzbekistan.
Whereas "corbel" is rarely used outside architecture, "console" is widely used for furniture, as in console table, and other decorative arts where the motif appears.
Formal, extravagant pleasure gardens came to Roman Britain in the 1st century AD, such as can now be seen at Fishbourne Roman Palace.
Pepoli also undertook extensive planting works, introducing pines, walnuts, almonds and other trees across previously barren and scrub-covered slopes known locally as the Bosco Sacro di Erice, transforming the area into a landscaped green space.
Links Біорізноманітна Україна На Хмельниччині замислилися над створенням нацпарку «Верхнє Побужжя» На Хмельниччині встановлюють межі нового національного природного парку Archived 2014-02-23 at the Wayback Machine == References ==
Sometimes these corbels carry a small arcade under the string course, the arches of which are pointed and trefoiled.
In June 2002, legislation was passed to establish 13 Marine National Parks and 11 Marine Sanctuaries.
In late 2024, in response to concerns over funding, supporters argued that when the UK's first national parks were devised, the national debt was 270% of UK GDP and the UK was recovering following the Second World War.
The distinction between a heritage centre or park, and a history-based theme park can become blurred, as at Nikko Edomura, focused on Feudal Japan, and Wild West City, a self-described "heritage theme park" about the American Old West.
Common examples of park furniture include bandstands, benches, chess tables, fountains, light fixtures, picnic tables, and statues.
History The Sandusky-Lorain Tornado first made landfall in Lorain at Lakeview Park in 1924, destroying the bath house.
Others may be more narrowly focused on a particular occupation or industry, such as rail transport or the early factories or mines around which a community developed.
In the fourth round (individual final round A), the slate is wiped clean and all riders begin with zero faults.
That year, he fenced in a forest area surrounding the palace, which was he considered his "Baghdad Palace" and set up a specialist institution for horticultural sciences.
While the walls prevent wind damage to the fruit, they also retain nighttime humidity, creating a microclimate within the garden that is much cooler and more humid than the surrounding environment.
The presence of the Tata Steel Zoological Park, Nicco Jubilee Amusement Park, Jayanti Sarovar(Zoo Lake), Bat Island, Children's Park, and Rose Garden is part of the reason why this park is such a famous one.
The headwaters of the North Saskatchewan River, the source of drinking water for the province's capital city, Edmonton, which is hundreds of kilometres to the east, is located in the proposed region.
Shop assembly In the first half of the 18th century, wooden wheels were used in Black Forest clock manufacturing (German: Holzräderuhr).
Gallery See also List of tourist attractions in Jamshedpur P&M Hi-Tech City Centre Mall Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary Rankini Temple, Jadugora References External links Official website
Parque Madrid Río (also in Centro, Carabanchel, Usera, Latina, Moncloa-Aravaca and Villa de Vallecas); 121.1 ha.
Projects FEDENATUR has promoted and participated in three European Interreg projects to technical exchanges and raising awareness on the concept of Periurban Parks.
A main reason for this lies in the fragmented nature of maritime governance in international waters, the poor enforcement of existing regulations in the High seas, plus the difficult co-management that would be required of countries often in conflict.
It is just north of the 50th parallel in Sept-Îles, in the Sept-Rivières Regional County Municipality of Quebec.
Rather than attempting to modify user behavior to fit the design, the design should be modified to accommodate the user's natural preferences.
Nagaraphirom Park (Thai: สวนนาคราภิรมย์) was a small public park of about 3 rai (0.48 ha; 1.2 acres) on the Chao Phraya River in Bangkok.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend adoption of a Complete Streets policy as a strategy to prevent obesity.
Their defensive function was not restored even in the late ancient period when the city was subjected to external attacks, but the city was then of reduced importance having lost its commercial and economic functions in favour of Portus and the theatre was used as a fortress.
Potential extension Following the initial announcement of the proposed park, the Toronto Star suggested that Rail Deck Park could help revive plans for Oxford Place by Oxford Properties in 2013 to redevelop the Metro Toronto Convention Centre, located east of the proposed park, into public space.
In ancient Rome, the landscaped Gardens of Sallust (Horti Sallustiani) were developed as a private garden by the historian Sallust.
Several countries use the term "maidan" across Eastern Europe and Central Asia, including Ukraine, in which the term became well-known globally during the Euromaidan.
Parklets have also been created in Mexico in Puebla de Zaragoza during the PueblaDesignFest The first Parklet on the street in London has been installed in July 2015.
In addition to these works Jesse wrote Literary and Historical Memorials of London (1847), London and its Celebrities (1850), and a new edition of this work as London: its Celebrated Characters and Remarkable Places (1871).
Examples of a linear elevated park include New York's High Line, Chicago's Bloomingdale Line, or Seoul's Seoullo 7017 Skypark.
There are also three main functions of the garden: the sacred – 'sacred enclosure', the place blessed by gods; the power – the great gardens of Cyrus in Persia were wonderful paradises, but also masterful demonstrations of power; the domestic – the small, useful and popular city gardens.
Cartoon Network approved the first season in September 2008, and "The Enchiridion!" was the first episode to enter into production.
Corbelling Corbelling, where rows of corbels gradually build a wall out from the vertical, has long been used as a simple kind of vaulting, for example in many Neolithic chambered cairns, where walls are gradually corbelled in until the opening can be spanned by a slab.
Some are open-air museums – heritage parks – devoted to depiction of daily life or occupational activity at a particular time and place, and may feature re-creations of typical buildings of an era.
Features While the front yard's counterpart, the backyard, is often dominated by utilitarian features like vegetable gardens, tool sheds, and clothes lines, the front yard is often a combination decorative feature and recreation area.
Taking a cue from 16th-century practice, the Paris-trained designers of 19th-century Beaux-Arts architecture were encouraged to show imagination in varying corbels.
See also List of protected areas of Quebec - list of national parks and reserves in Quebec, including those under management by Sépaq References External links Sépaq (Parcs Québec) official site
See also Protected areas of Victoria References External links Great Forest National Park – Park Plan The Science Behind the GFNP – presentation by David Lindenmayer
Covering approximately 300 acres (120 ha), it features ziplines, ropes courses, climbing towers and walls, bouldering areas, fishing, paddleboating, kayaking, mountain biking and hiking trails and other outdoor activities.
From time on, many scenic viewpoints have since become tourist attractions, with numerous vistas inscribed as world heritage-listed natural sites.
Ecologically significant natural corridors, usually along rivers and streams and less often ridgelines, to provide for wildlife migration and species interchange, nature study and hiking.
Section 7(3) of the act was repealed, and the act was extended, by section 8(1) of, and schedule 2 to, the Parish Councils Act 1957 (5 & 6 Eliz.
Greenprinting can galvanize public support and encourage partners to work toward common conservation goals.
The German Clock Route (in German: Deutsche Uhrenstraße) is a themed route that connects places with relevant museums and (former) clock manufacturers in the Black Forest.
The reserve is bounded on three sides by Water, Love and Quarry Streets and on the fourth side by dense vegetation concealing development beyond to the south east.
In the late 2017, this park was closed by Chuwit Kamolvisit sold this land to Land and Houses with a value of 5,000 million baht.
One of the most expansive efforts to protect and foster urban wilds is the aptly titled "Urban Wilds program" conducted in Boston, which had its start in 1977 off the back of a 1976 report by the Boston Planning & Development Agency (BPDA), formerly the Boston Redevelopment Authority (BRA).
In some jurisdictions, furniture used in public parks is made by prison inmates as part of prison work programs.
These positive impacts are magnified in neighborhoods with low-income or racial minority populations, where green space may be scarce and the new development of larger-scale parks may be infeasible due to spatial or financial constraints.
Circular in plan, with an external diameter of 11 meters and wall height at 4 meters, the garden is located in a natural amphitheater made up of terraced vineyards, with centuries-old Zibibbo trees, in the Khamma district.
Sources External links (en) German clock Museum (Das Deutsche Uhrenmuseum) in Furtwangen in Black Forest (de) ErfinderZeiten – Clock Museum in Schramberg (en) "Gary's Antique Black Forest Clock Collectors Website and Forum".
Other buildings in Lundagård are the AF Borgen, the Lund University Historical Museum and Palaestra et Odeum.
In the 17th and 18th centuries, another type of square emerged, the so-called royal square (French: Place royale, Dutch: Koningsplein).
In the early hours of 26 January 2003 about 120 bars and other businesses on this plot of land were demolished.
Hunting parks were originally areas maintained as open space where residences, industry and farming were not allowed, often originally so that nobility might have a place to hunt – see medieval deer park.
History Surviving giardini panteschi are described as post-15th-century constructions, with major diffusion and rebuilding occurring in the 19th century as agricultural land use intensified and rural infrastructure expanded on Pantelleria.
The Labor Party was divided on the issue and did not actively support the plan during the election campaign.
King, is dedicated to the men and women from Lorain who served during the first and second World Wars.
New South Wales Governors Richard Bourke and George Gipps notably ordered surveyors to not include a town square in city designs, including Melbourne, to prevent the spirit of democracy from arising.
The gardens and restaurant opened to the public in 1995, hosting two tours per day during their season from the beginning of May until the end of September.
A list of parks in Madrid, Spain, sorted by district, is presented as follows: Arganzuela Parque Enrique Tierno Galván; 45.8 ha.
It is common in medieval architecture and in the Scottish baronial style as well as in the vocabulary of classical architecture, such as the modillions of a Corinthian cornice.
The park district holds the authority, similar to fire protection districts, to manage and raise taxes to cover park acquisition and management costs.
Like the three model playgrounds, the Brisbane City Council playgrounds were found in high density, inner city areas and included one in the Domain of the Brisbane Botanic Gardens.
In the late eighteenth century this was at least 60 feet (18 m), but from the 1790s this was decreased to 40 feet (12 m), and later 30 feet (9.1 m) as the normal maximum width.
The committee was to present its development and management plan to the Ministry of Municipal and Regional Affairs later that year.
The Upper Pobuzhzhia National Nature Park (Ukrainian: Національний природний парк «Верхнє Побужжя», lit.
The place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a particular class of cultural places.
Though there are no developed campsites near the lake, primitive camping is allowed at least 150 ft.
The north side of the park includes the public beach, Bath House (with event space with a restaurant and concession stand in the summer), rose garden, fountain, lawn bowling, gazebos and picnic areas, and several historical monuments including one of the Lorain Easter Baskets.
Gardens on the island range from roses to cacti and each garden contains exotic plants from all over the world.
The park was built on disused industrial land and flooded former Lemont yellow dolomite quarries straddling the Illinois and Michigan Canal National Heritage Area, and abutting the Chicago Sanitary and Ship Canal.
This led to the passage of the Provincial Parks and Protected Areas Act in 1930 and the formation of the Provincial Board of Management to oversee the system.
Today, despite the diverse legal and historical origins of commons, they are managed through a community of users, comprising those who hold rights together with the owner(s) of the soil.
See also Paleontology Prehistoric life Timeline of geography, paleontology, biology Synchrotron X-ray tomographic microscopy Fossil Parks of India List of fossil sites == References ==
Elevated parks can exist, for example, on the roof of existing buildings (see also: green roof, roof garden), or on former railways, elevated roads, or other elevated urban elements (often becoming linear parks as well).
The Weiwuying Metropolitan Park (traditional Chinese: 衛武營都會公園; simplified Chinese: 卫武营都会公园; pinyin: Wèiwǔyíng Dūhuì Gōngyuán) is a metropolitan park (one type of Taiwan national park) in Fengshan District, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
Among the renowned Renaissance gardens, the Villa d'Este in Tivoli stands out as one of the most famous examples in Italy.
This local attraction was opened to the public in 1958, on the occasion of the city's golden jubilee, the 50th anniversary of establishment.
Parque Madrid Río (also in Arganzuela, Carabanchel, Centro, Usera, Moncloa-Aravaca and Villa de Vallecas); 121.1 ha.
California The East Bay Regional Park District and Midpeninsula Regional Open Space District have extensive parklands in the San Francisco Bay Area, protecting habitat and offering recreation.
Geography Haddenham and Thame are adjacent settlements, three miles apart, located in the English counties of Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire respectively.
Thurop Van Orman, the creator of The Marvelous Misadventures of Flapjack, was also hired on as a supervising producer, providing guidance for the series' first two seasons.
They may be protected by railings to protect the public or be enhanced by a viewing tower designed to elevate visitors above the surrounding terrain or trees in order to offer panoramic views.
Ironically, the fort was built late in the Revolutionary War when the need for it had almost disappeared.
Both sides of the park were managed by the City of Lorain until 2006 when management was split between the City of Lorain and the Lorain County Metro Parks.
This park also shows off a status of Jamsetji Tata and is also known as the Mughal Gardens of Jamshedpur.
References Attribution This Wikipedia article was originally based on "The Queensland heritage register" published by the State of Queensland under CC-BY 3.0 AU licence (accessed on 7 July 2014, archived on 8 October 2014).
Description Urban planning The republican castrum at the core of the settlement had a typical rectangular plan built on two main roads that crossed at right angles in the centre: the cardo and the decumanus maximus, the latter on the route of the Via Ostiense coming from Rome.
Birdwatching Lakeview Park is a location on the Ohio Department of Natural Resources' Huron & Lorain Loop which is a trail of birdwatching sites along Lake Erie.
The south side consists of ball diamonds, concession stand, playground, picnic area, tennis and pickleball courts, and parking lot.
The designations are managed by the Bureau of Land Management within the National Conservation Lands.
Polk County is the most populous county in Iowa with around 500,000 residents living within the county boundaries, with the majority living in the Des Moines metro area.
The Mediterranean gardens were also maintained in the winter season, with winter rain allowing for the upkeep of rose and almond trees in northern Italy.
Kungshuset, built in 1584 as a residence by the Danish king, later became the first main building of Lund University.
In January 2018, "Hops and Headwaters" in support of a campaign to protect the headwaters of the Bighorn Backcountry" was held in Edmonton.
Main features of iSOPARC are a digital counter, target area mapping, project-based data management, and data export.
It was also admired by Frederick Law Olmsted and used to create the famous Emerald Necklace in Boston.
Oceania Australia Australian government The Australian Government manages an estate of marine protected areas (MPA) that are Commonwealth reserves under the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 (EPBC Act).
Examples include Ballincollig Regional Park (managed by Cork City Council), Millennium Regional Park (Fingal County Council), and Malahide Demesne Regional Park (also Fingal County Council).
1882) Memoirs of the Pretenders and their Adherents (1845) Memoirs of Richard the Third and his Contemporaries (1861) Memoirs of the Life and Reign of King George the Third (1867) The titles of these works are sufficiently indicative of their character.
Corbels sometimes end with a point apparently growing into the wall, or forming a knot, and often are supported by angels and other figures.
It was designed by Frank Gibson Costello and built from 1927 onwards, one of the builders being Sir Manuel Hornibrook.
Others include: The Chicago Lakefront Trail, the Dubai Marina, the East River Greenway, New Plymouth Coastal Walkway, and the Manhattan Waterfront Greenway.
This list of urban parks by size includes parks at least 404.7 hectares (1,000 acres) or 4 square kilometres (1.5 sq mi) and contained entirely within a locality's municipal or metropolitan boundary.
While being built under the visionary Jamsetji Tata, the Brindavan Gardens in Mysore were used as an inspiration.
The local authority challenged the registration, wanting to retain control of the lands for future expansion of the nearby Moorside Primary School's playing fields.
As of 2015, the park, covering an area of 108,000 hectares (1,080 km2), was projected to be open by 2021.
In some cases there could be common services, accessible from the internal courtyard and some insulae were perhaps used as an inn (caupona).
The committee to organize the plans and raise the money to build the park was made up of seven veterans from the Korean War.
On the ground floor were normally many tabernae (shops) opening onto the street, sometimes fronted by porticos.
To achieve this award, the 4 pillars of a nature park have to be met: conservation, recreation, education and regional development.
Country parks In some countries, especially the United Kingdom, country parks are areas designated for recreation, and managed by local authorities.
The area comprises evergreen forest at elevations from 50 to 4,078 ft (15 to 1,243 m), which is governed by Myanmar's Forest Department.
The decision of the Zugdidi district administration from the local budget will come to 5,000 lari per month.
During the Japanese rule, the Japanese viewed Kaohsiung as a base to develop the southern region of Taiwan and started to deploy armies and set up warehouses there called the Fongshan Warehouse.
Safdie himself warned the city of this new tactic, stating that development projects in Toronto were being approved, then subsequently revised to provide a lower-quality, lower-cost development in place of an approved project.
Park Place (formerly Molson Park) is a power centre located in the south end of Barrie, Ontario, Canada.
A council levy also contributes over £1 million to the existing parks, although the Welsh Government pays back money to the councils.
Facilities in Thame not available in Haddenham include: monthly charter market, specialist shops, restaurants, leisure centre, swimming pool, bowls, secondary school, skate park, theatre, rugby and football stadia.
While usually associated with repurposed transportation infrastructure, some elevated parks are designed on top of buildings.
Urban beaches are often found along waterways, though some are inserted into town squares or other spaces far from water.
This combination of cultivated and native species creates a distinctive ecological and ornamental landscape, reflecting the natural vegetation of Monte Erice while enhancing biodiversity within the historic garden setting.
The garden now has over eighty genus of exotic plants introduced from southeast Asia, India, Japan, Mediterranean and the Americas.
There are two places in the United States called Village Green: Village Green-Green Ridge, Pennsylvania, and Village Green, New York.
Natural parks focus their attention on the conservation and maintenance of flora, fauna, and terrain.
At the beginning of the 19th century, the Sorgs, a clockmaker family, produced a very small wall clock (Sorg-Uhr).
Similarly, in the Early English period corbels were sometimes elaborately carved, as at Lincoln Cathedral, and sometimes more simply so.
A corbel is a solid piece of material in the wall, whereas a console is a piece applied to the structure.
In 2006 Karimpuzha was listed as a proposed Wildlife Sanctuary by the Ministry of Environment and Forests (India).
Some parks in the UK and elsewhere have a "Happy to Chat" bench, a bench with a sign on it with wording such as "Happy to chat bench.
The project, led by Vincenzo Giacalone and landscape architect Pietro Pio Pedone, focused on improving biodiversity, removing invasive species, and enhancing visitor accessibility.
List of beaches This list is only of urban beaches as defined above, open to the public on a free or admission basis.
Monitoring for the presence of brain lesions may be required following a large or repeated exposure.
Effects on human health Mycotoxins not only have a substantial impact on the safety of food products and the health of animals, but they can poison those who consume them and cause a wide range of symptoms and diseases in humans.
A high-resolution technique was developed to detect F-actin at the light and electron microscopic levels by using phalloidin conjugated to the fluorophore eosin which acts as the fluorescent tag.
It causes profound activation of the peripheral parasympathetic nervous system that may end in circulatory collapse and death.
In the end the following symptoms might occur: a high fever, petechial haemorrhage, necrosis of muscles and skin, bacterial infections of the necrotic tissue, enlarged lymph nodes.
Studies have shown that it can cause diseases such as equine leukoencephalomalacia in horses, hydrothorax and porcine pulmonary edema in swine, and it can negatively affect the immune system.
Consequently, immunofluorescence microscopy along with microinjection of phalloidin can be used to evaluate the direct and indirect functions of cytoplasmic actin in its different stages of polymer formation.
The disease has also been reported in cattle, goats, donkeys, horses, and pigs, and has been experimentally induced in various other species, including rabbits, guinea pigs, mice, rats, dogs, ducklings, and chickens.
Other animals are susceptible as well, and can experience growth retardation, reproductive disorders, and vomiting if the substance is consumed.
Zearalanone can be extracted from foodstuffs along with aflatoxins in the same time by a specific immunoaffinity column.
Metabolism While there is no specific study on the metabolism of roridin E, there have been studies on the metabolism of structurally related trichothecenes.
This core ring structure contains an epoxide bridging carbons 12 and 13, as well as a double bond between carbons 9 and 10.
In February–March 2013 several European countries, including Romania, Serbia, Croatia reported nationwide contamination of milk for human consumption (and possibly of derivative products) with aflatoxins.
Moniliformin is formed in many cereals by a number of Fusarium species that include Fusarium moniliforme, Fusarium avenaceum, Fusarium subglutinans, Fusarium proliferatum, Fusarium fujikuroi and others.
Regulation of Biosynthesis Some gliotoxin molecules are not secreted by GliA and remain in the cell.
Although no significant systemic effects are expected after dermal contact in normal agricultural or residential environments, local skin effects can not be excluded.
Properties Satratoxin-H is almost completely insoluble in water, but is easily soluble in lower alcohols and polar solvents such as ethanol, methanol, 2-propanol, acetone and chloroform.
It is a potent suicidal inhibitor of succinate dehydrogenase, an enyzme in the citric acid cycle and mitochondrial energy chain.
Further metabolism leads to the formation of several smaller organic molecules such as amines (M), carbon dioxide (N) and acetic acid (O).
Lupinosis, also known as phomopsin toxicosis or mycotoxinic lupinosis, is a mycotoxicosis primarily affecting sheep, caused by ingestion of phomopsins—mycotoxins produced by the fungus Diaporthe toxica (formerly identified as Phomopsis leptostromiformis).
The 2-2’linked secalonic acid A isomerizes in DMSO at room temperature to the 2-4’linked secalonic acid A and 4-4’linked secalonic acid A during 13hr, to reach an equilibrium of 3.2 : 2 : 1.
This procedure requires eight steps, and uses Suzuki–Miyaura coupling and oxidation of methylene acetal.
Nevertheless, Russia announced it would ban imports from the German farms that received contaminated feed.
It was shown to be a 2,2’- biaryl linked dimer in 1963 and the structure confirmed that year by single-crystal X-ray analysis.
It has been shown to be an intermediate in the biosynthesis of allantofuranone, a gamma-lactone antibiotic from the fungus Allantophomopsis lycopodina.
albicans is associated with damage to host epithelial cells; during this process Candidalysin is released and intercalates in host membranes.
Bolesatine causes gastroenteritis in humans and, at high enough concentrations, inhibits protein synthesis.
Orellanine displays tautomerism, with the more stable tautomer being the pyridine N-oxide form.The chemical structure of synthetically produced orellanine has been confirmed by X-ray crystallography.
FB4 is similar to fumonisin B2 and fumonisin B3 but it is lacking a hydroxy group located gamma- to the amino substituent while lacking two hydroxy groups compared to fumonisin B1.
As mentioned by Fox et al, this class of ‘unusually stable’ derivatives are dienophiles when involved in a Diels-Alder reaction.
The nucleus then moves to the outside of the membrane, but stays connected to the cell by a thread-like cytoplasmic bridge.
More than one study has shown that detectable levels of zearalenone and its metabolite alpha-zearalanol in girls are associated with significantly shorter heights at menarche.
The mechanisms underlying its toxicity and metabolism have been investigated by studying its interaction with mammalian cytochrome P450 enzymes.
Satratoxin-H, a trichothecene mycotoxin, is a naturally occurring toxin produced by the ascomycetes Stachybotrys chartarum and Trichoderma cornu-damae which is highly toxic and potentially fatal to humans and other animals.
Diagnosis and treatment Generally, diagnosis of slaframine toxicity is done by observation of clinical signs (salivation) in animals consuming legume forage, particularly red clover hay.
Candidalysin promotes damage of oral epithelial cells and induces lactate dehydrogenase release and calcium ion influx.
It is the β epimer of zeranol (α-zearalanol) and is a major metabolite of zeranol but with less biological activity.
Ustalic acid is a naturally occurring chemical compound found in the poisonous mushroom Tricholoma ustale.
The researchers found the desulfurized phalloidin was still circular, which demonstrated that the structure of phalloidin is normally bicyclic.
Slaframine poisoning or slobbers usually occur in a cooler and wetter spring or fall because these seasons are ideal for the growth of the fungus Rhizoctonia leguminicola.
If a larger dose is consumed, symptoms of a hemorrhagic fever will occur, as well as mental impairment.
Orellanine has been found to inhibit the synthesis of biomolecules such as proteins, RNA, and DNA, and promote non-competitive inhibition of several enzymes such as alkaline phosphatase, γ-glutamyltransferase, and leucyl aminopeptidase.
The mechanism is that 3-nitroprionionic induces reactive oxygen species and oxidizes dopamine generating dopamine-quinones which can reduce the activity of MAO-A.
Its first practical synthesis was reported in 1947 by Ralph Raphael, who had worked on penicillin during World War II.
The outer leaflet of cancer cell membranes appears to be enriched with negatively charged phospholipids, which seems to explain the antitumor properties of ribotoxins.
Aeruginascin, also known as 4-phosphoryloxy-N,N,N-trimethyltryptamine (4-PO-TMT), is an indoleamine derivative which occurs naturally within the mushrooms Inocybe aeruginascens, Pholiotina cyanopus, and Psilocybe cubensis.
Reproduction Zearalenone structure is similar to estrogens and α-zearalenol binds with an even greater affinity estrogen receptors, while β-zearalenol's affinity is lower than both the parent compound's and α-Zel's binding affinity.
In mice (given 20 mg nivalenol /kg bw orally or 3.7 mg /kg bw ip) the DNA of kidney, bone marrow, stomach, jejunum and colon was damaged.
Factors that will probably induce this reversibility are reduction of cellular FB1-concentration and increasing of cellular concentrations of the substrates for ceramide synthase.
Use and effects Pharmacology Like psilocin, 4-HO-TMT shows affinity for the serotonin 5-HT1A, 5-HT2A, and 5-HT2B receptors.
Tenuazonic acid has been a compound of interest in drug development research for Alzheimer's disease (AD).
Prenyltransferase catalyzes the formation of a dimethyl-cyclopentane and a cyclobutane using the intermediate's aromatic ring-alcohol group.
Uses Patulin was originally used as an antibiotic against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, but after several toxicity reports, it is no longer used for that purpose.
It has also been isolated from Myrothecium roridum, a pathogen leaf spot that affects mulberry, though it is unknown if it is used as a pathotoxin.
Beauvericin is a depsipeptide with antibiotic and insecticidal effects belonging to the enniatin family.
The slobber symptoms pass slowly when the contaminated hay is removed, however clinical signs may persist for 1–2 days following removal of the toxic forage.
Its role as an upstream precursor has relevance towards food safety, natural product chemistry, and pharmaceutical development.
Contact with the solution through ingestion, inhalation, or even prolonged physical contact produces symptoms similar to those listed below.
Acute toxicity The oral LD50 range of aflatoxin B1 is estimated to be 0.3–17.9 mg/kg body weight for most animal species.
As chemical agents, the fumonisins are distinct from the large family of Fusarium trichothecene (T-2-type) mycotoxins, and from the Fusarium estrogenic metabolite, zearalenone, an F-2-type mycotoxin.
However, its affinities for these receptors are lower than those of psilocin (by 8-, 6-, and 26-fold, respectively).
Legume hays contaminated with slaframine cause slobber syndrome and various animals are sensitive to its effects.
Synthesis The first synthesis of orellanine was reported in 1985 by Dehmlow and Schulz, and required ten steps starting from 3-aminopyridine.
It functions by binding and stabilizing filamentous actin (F-actin) and effectively prevents the depolymerization of actin fibers.
This was caused by a shipment of high-quality second-cutting red clover-orchard grass hay from a usual supplier in West Virginia.
In mice, the oral LD50 of this molecule is 2.5 mg/kg and poisoning is indicated by an increase in serum creatine phosphokinase activity.
Moisture availability, particularly high humidity and water activity, is a critical determinant of fungal colonization and toxin synthesis both in the field and during storage.
Another mycotoxin, ochratoxin, has carcinogenic and immunosuppressive effects, and can facilitate urinary tract development difficulties.
If rice, corn, cereals or meat products are contaminated with Penicillin citreoviridin, citreoviridin can be produced if the food is stored in a damp place.
It also proved to be an effective antimicrobial agent against the Gram-positive bacteria (Bacillus megaterium) and the Gram-negative bacteria (Escherichia coli) and was found to be antifungal against (Microbotryum violaceum) and antialgal against (Chlorella fusca).
Teratogenic manifestations included anomalous extremities development, macrocephaly, abnormal head-to-body size ratio and absence of the head.
As the effect of T-2 toxin, elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels were observed in several mammalian species.
The affinity for the hippocampus could be relevant to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, and subchronic administration to rodents induces hippocampal neurodegeneration.
Beauvericin is active against Gram-positive bacteria and mycobacteria, and is also capable of inducing programmed cell death in mammals.
Administration of the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN55212-2 to rats for six consecutive days, before acid dosage, exerted preventive effects on all alterations elicited by the toxin, like mitochondrial dysfunction and lipid peroxidation, by activation of the CB1 receptor.
Cytochalasin E, however, was noted to decrease glucose absorption in mice around the intestinal tissues by increasing the Km needed for glucose to reach the Vmax, which meant that a higher concentration of glucose was required in its presence to attain Vmax.
Synthesis of penitrem A involves six oxidative-transformation enzymes (four cytochrome P450 monooxygenases and two flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD)-dependent monooxygenases), two acetyltransferases, one oxidoreductase, and one prenyltransferase.
Alpha-zearalanol is also produced semisynthetically, for veterinary use; such use is prohibited in the European Union.
Vioxanthin is a mycotoxin that was first isolated from the pathogenic fungus Trichophyton violaceum and characterized in 1966.
Use in medical research Recent studies have found that because 3-nitropropionic acid is a mitochondrial toxin, it can produce striatal alterations in rats similar to those observed in the brain of Huntington's disease (HD) patients.
Mechanism of action Multiple experiments have shown the different effects of PR toxin: it can cause damage to the liver and kidney, can induce carcinogenicity, and can in vivo inhibit DNA replication, protein synthesis, and transcription.
Several studies have shown that optimal conditions for fungal growth are not necessarily optimum for toxin production.
Reports of phalloidin in the edible (and sought after) Blusher (Amanita rubescens) have not been confirmed by later researchers Chemical structures == References ==
Levels of IL-8 and cell viability were also reduced to 80% and 20% when exposed to respectively 25 and 50 μg/mL CTN for 72 hours.
They differ from the closely related amatoxins by being one residue smaller, both in the final product and the precursor protein.
The possible presence of the toxin renders these species "suspected, dangerous, or not recommended" for consumption.
Its ion-complexing capability allows beauvericin to transport alkaline earth metal and alkali metal ions across cell membranes.
In the European Union, the limit is also set at 50 micrograms per kilogram (μg/kg) in apple juice and cider, at 25 μg/kg in solid apple products, and at 10 μg/kg in products for infants and young children.
The European Space Agency (ESA) has attempted to seek new options in terms of bipropellant rocket combinations to avoid using toxic chemicals such as MMH and its relatives.
Activated charcoal is often used to remove other types of toxins or poisoning that have been ingested.
In 2015, a unique supposed class of non-aminated fumonisins was reported on grapes infected with Aspergillus welwitschiae, where toxicities have not yet been established.
Mycotoxins are secondary metabolites produced by filamentous fungi, commonly detected as contaminants in agricultural commodities globally.
Together with some earlier experiments it has been proved that the PR toxin was indeed active on the cell metabolism.
It was tested on Swiss mice and found to be very toxic, though not the most toxic of the three toxins that were tested at that time.
Additionally, in another study, the EC50Tooltip half-maximal effective concentration value of 4-HO-TMT in activating the serotonin 5-HT2A receptor was 324-fold lower than that of psilocin (6,800 nM and 21 nM, respectively).
The structural arrangement is very similar to that of other extracellular fungal RNases, which are not toxic, and constitute a family whose best known representative is the RNase T1 of Aspergillus oryzae.
Cytochalasin E, a member of the cytochalasin group, is an inhibitor of actin polymerization in blood platelets.
In animal studies, consumption of polyporic acid caused reduced locomotor activity, depressed visual placing response, hepatorenal failure, metabolic acidosis, hypokalaemia, and hypocalcaemia.
Related compounds Aristolochene Aflatoxin Patulin References External links Roquefortine C on https://www.scbt.com
Although zeranol may increase cancer cell proliferation in already existing breast cancer, dietary exposure from the use of zeranol-containing implants in cattle is insignificant.
Fumonisin B2 is a fumonisin mycotoxin produced by the fungi Fusarium verticillioides (formerly Fusarium moniliforme) and Aspergillus niger.
Dietary intake of patulin from apple juice has been estimated at between 0.03 and 0.26 μg per kg body weight per day in various age groups and populations.
The nephrotoxic effects of ochratoxin A and citrinin, for example, are increased synergistic when exposure to both takes place.
Interactions occur between sulfur molecules that make up the disulfide bridge and thiol groups contained in cysteine residues.
The excess Ca2+ results in the enhancement of the mitochondrial electron transport system which will further increase the number of reactive oxygen species.
It is closely related to the frog skin toxin bufotenidine (5-HTQ), a potent serotonin 5-HT3 receptor agonist, but the aeruginascin metabolite 4-HO-TMT (thought to be its active form) shows strong binding at the serotonin 5-HT2 receptors similar to psilocin.
It also demonstrates new concepts in organic chemistry (reagents, reaction types) and opens the way to molecular derivatives not found in nature.
See also Substituted tryptamine References External links Aeruginascin - Isomer Design Aeruginascin - Trout's Notes
Occurrence Dimethylaziridine carboxylic acid occurs in enantiopure 2S form in the mushroom Pleurocybella porrigens.
After this stereoselective cyclization, a series of hydride shifts along with a single 1,2-rearrangement forms the stable enantioselective (+)-aristolochene product.
Subacute toxicity Subacute toxicity studies of aflatoxin B1 in animals showed moderate to severe liver damage.
Chronic symptoms include induction of hepatomas in rats, pulmonary tumours in mice, renal lesions and alterations in the liver and kidneys of African Green monkeys.
Currently Fumonisin B4's toxicity compared to Fumonisin B1 or B2 is unknown as further research is actively ongoing, however in nature its concentration is significantly lower.
Penicillic acid is a mycotoxin that is produced by Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus ostianus and Penicillium roqueforti mold.
Chemically speaking, it is the sodium salt of deoxysquaric acid (the other name of that acid is semisquaric acid).
As with other chemical compound targets in organic chemistry, the organic synthesis of aflatoxins serves various purposes.
In greenhouse experiments the fungus killed 100 percent of the kudzu seeds, and, in outdoor trials, 90-100 percent of older plants.
Cyclopiazonic acid is an incredibly common mycotoxin, appearing all over the globe and in food items and crops belonging to many cultures.
It is thought that GliA, GtmA, and GliT provide mechanisms for self-protection against gliotoxin toxicity for the fungi that produce and excrete gliotoxin.
Additionally, ergot alkaloids can cause symptoms like indigestion, hallucinations, kidney failure, heart failure and limb numbness in humans.
2), which occurs in higher concentrations in endophyte-infected grass plants, has greater insect toxicity than some other lolines, which occur at lower concentrations in the grass plant.
Herbicide use Trichothecenes have been found to cause growth retardation, wilting, chlorosis, and necrosis in some plants.
Additional effects include reproductive issues like abortions in late pregnancy, embryonic deaths, reduced lambing percentages, decreased wool production and quality, nutritional myopathy, and starvation ketosis in cattle.
The (+)-enantiomer was later identified and experimentally confirmed in Penicillium roqueforti through studies centered around aristolochene synthase activity and the ari1 locus which encodes the enzyme.
In particular, solid-phase correction and immunoaffinity chromatography cartridges offer good possibilities for efficient clean up.
Satratoxin-H has little effect on bare skin, and does not blister it in the way many chemical weapons do.
Along with β-zearalenol, it is a major metabolite of zearalenone formed mainly in the liver but also to a lesser extent in the intestines during first-pass metabolism.
The first step in most exposure cases is to remove potentially contaminated clothing and to flush the sites of exposure thoroughly with water.
Across 23 analyzed cases of accidental hallucinogenic mushroom poisonings, people who had ingested the mushroom Inocybe aeruginascens reported only euphoric experiences.
In contrast, it targets glutamate-gated chloride channels in invertebrates, causing increased chloride permeability without affecting their excitatory glutamate receptors.
The de-epoxinated nivalenol gained is therefore much less toxic, same as every de-epoxinated trichodiene, and can be segregated into the urine without having much toxic effects anymore (nearly non-toxic).
bisporus, also known as the portobello or common button mushroom, is of particular socio-economic importance in developed countries.
In 2001, it was demonstrated that the endophyte Neotyphodium uncinatum produces lolines in some chemically defined growth media, which suggests that the endophyte is also the producer of the lolines in the grass plant.
It is a secondary metabolite product of fungi of the genus Fusarium and may cause toxicosis in farm animals.
See also List of deadly fungi (for lethal species only) List of poisonous fungi (including non-deadly species that are nevertheless harmful) Pathogenic fungus References External links Poisonous mushrooms: microscopic identification in cooked specimens from medical mycologist R.C.
When force-fed to mice, ustalic acid causes them to sit still in a crouched position, hesitant to move, and induces tremors and abdominal contractions.
As shown in the example in the figure (of fumonisin B1), members of the family are composed of a central "chai[n] of about 20 carbons", and bear an "acidic ester, acetylamino and sometimes other substituents".
A NAD(P)+ dependent aldehyde dehydrogenase (CitD) is encoded by mrl4 and another dehydrogenase (CitE) is encoded by mrl6.
"Poisonous mushrooms taste bad." – People who have eaten the deadly Amanitas and survived have reported that the mushrooms tasted quite good.
Beauvericin has in vitro fungicidal effects on Candida parapsilosis when used in combination with the antifungal drug ketoconazole at dosages of 0.1 μg/ml.
This reduces production of the neurotransmitter GABA via decreased activity of glutamic acid decarboxylase, which gives rise to the neurological symptoms.
Fusarins are a class of mycotoxins produced mainly by fungi of the genus Fusarium, which can infect agriculturally important crops such as wheat, barley, oats, rye, and corn.
Identification When foraging for mushrooms in the wild, it is important to be cautious of ones that may not be safe to eat.
Zeranol is approved for use as a growth promoter in livestock, including beef cattle, under the brand name Ralgro (by Merck Animal Health) in the United States.
Individuals taking immunosuppressive medications or with previous or current exposure to chemotherapy radiation are at higher risk for the development of these tumors.
The symptoms of coprine poisoning and alcohol consumption are similar to those induced by disulfiram (marketed as Antabuse), a drug utilized to treat chronic alcoholism by inducing severe side-effects to alcohol consumption.
When observing fusaproliferin, and its analogues, a high binding affinity with TLR4 was detected, influencing inflammatory immune responses.
However, upon contact with sensitive surfaces (eyes, interior of mouth or nose), inflammation will occur.
In humans, it was tested as an antiviral intranasally for use against the common cold with few significant adverse effects, yet also had negligible or no beneficial effect.
Potential for toxicity Although recognized as an experimental carcinogen when used in high laboratory doses, there is inadequate evidence to classify Agaritine as carcinogenic to humans in amounts ingested from consuming mushrooms.
The hydroxyl group of the ring opened compound is then oxidized to a carboxylic acid using a mix of TEMPO, sodium chlorite, and PIDA dissolved in acetonitrile.
Treatment of isocyanatocyclopropane with hydrochloric acid leads to the hydrochloride of 1-aminocyclopropanol.
Secalonic acid A has antitumor properties and also reduces colchicines toxicity in rat cortical neurons.
Sterpuric acid is a phytotoxic metabolite derived from the fungus Stereum purpureum, from which it derives its name.
The biosynthesis of α-CPA is dependent on other pathways, specifically the mevalonate pathway, which serves to form DMAPP.
A larger group is the partially hydrolysed form, denoted as PHFB4, which has been detected using HPLC-ITMS.
Biosynthesis Viriditoxin is a secondary metabolite, a polyketide produced from multiple acetyl-CoA and malonyl-CoA units which are combined by a polyketide synthase (PKS) enzyme complex.
The lolines have also been reported from some plants in several plant families, suggesting a more widespread occurrence of these compounds in nature.
While most phomoxanthones were discovered in fungi of the genus Phomopsis, most notably in the species Phomopsis longicolla, some have also been found in Penicillium sp.
The structure of all phomoxanthones is derived from a dimer of two covalently linked tetrahydroxanthones, and they differ mainly in the position of this link as well as in the acetylation status of their hydroxy groups.
It is a structural analog of fumonisin B3, while it is lacking one hydroxy group compared to fumonisin B1.
The phomoxanthones are named after the fungus Phomopsis, from which they were first isolated, and after their xanthonoid structure.
The detection of vioxanthin in food products has been used as evidence of contamination with these fungi.
History Lupinosis was first recognized as a disease in Germany in 1872, when numerous sheep deaths were associated with ingesting lupin plants.
Society and culture Legal status Muscimol is not a controlled substance and is unregulated in most of the world.
Mycotoxin prevention Studies on mycotoxins show that there are three ways to preventing them from contaminating feed.
2 HON(CH(CH3)CO2H)2 + VO2+ → [V{NO[CH(CH3)CO2]2}2]2− + H2O + 4 H+ Biological function The biological function of amavadin is unknown.
Taleranol (INN, USAN) (developmental code name P-1560), or teranol, also known as β-zearalanol, is a synthetic, nonsteroidal estrogen of the resorcylic acid lactone group related to mycoestrogens found in Fusarium spp which was never marketed.
The first indication for this theory came from finding high levels of pollen in the collected samples, giving the substance its yellow color.
Another interesting finding is the decreased activity of respiratory control and oxidative phosphorylation in the (isolated) mitochondria of the liver .
Monomethylhydrazine is a possible occupational carcinogen, and the occupational exposure limits to MMH are set at protective levels to account for the possible carcinogenicity.
Toxic effects The risks of fumonisin B1 have been evaluated by The World Health Organization's International Programme on Chemical Safety and the Scientific Committee on Food of the European Commission.
The dose of muscimol that is thought to be potentially fatal in humans is 90 mg, which is 15 times its threshold active dose of 6 mg.
α-Zearalenol is a nonsteroidal estrogen of the resorcylic acid lactone group related to mycoestrogens found in Fusarium spp.
History Orellanine first came to people's attention in 1952 when a mass poisoning of 102 people in Konin, Poland resulted in 11 deaths.
Cancer cells thus favor autophagy due to its role in countering metabolic stresses induced by anti-cancer drugs such as bortezomib in order to regenerate healthier cancer cells for continued proliferation and growth.
Roquefortine C has been commonly detected in documented cases of penitrem A poisoning, making it a possible biomarker for diagnoses.
AFLP-based studies using crosses between strains of the endophyte, Epichloë festucae, that differ in the capacity to produce lolines, show that loline production and protection of the grass, Lolium giganteum, from feeding by the aphid, Rhopalosiphum padi, segregate in a Mendelian fashion.
Cytochalasin E was also found to inhibit autophagy, a process vital in recycling dysfunctional cells and cellular components.
Paxillus involutus (brown roll-rim) – once thought edible, but now found to destroy red blood cells with regular or long-term consumption.
Effects of bolesatine poisoning Other than the accumulation of toxins in human liver and organs, Bolesatine poisoning causes agglutination in human red blood cells and platelets at threshold concentrations.
Structure Natural viriditoxin exists as a single atropisomer owing to restricted rotation about the C-C bond which joins the two naphthol rings.
Fumonisin B2 and other fumonisins frequently contaminate maize and other crops, while recently it has been shown using LC–MS/MS that FB2 can contaminate coffee beans as well.
Gliotoxin is also the only toxin that has been isolated from the sera of patients with invasive aspergillosis.
Pharmacology Pharmacodynamics Muscarine mimics the action of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine by agonising muscarinic acetylcholine receptors.
Aflatoxins in particular add another dimension because it is suspected that they have been mass-produced in the past from biological sources as part of a biological weapons program.
However isoroquefortine C is not a fungal product and in contrast to roquefortine C does not bind iron.
A very large prospective cohort in Sweden explores correlations between RCC occurrence, diets rich in vegetables and poultry (so-called "healthy diets"), and diets rich in meat (especially processed meat: salami, black pudding).
The IC50 for human breast cancer cells was determined to be 0.002 mg/L showing significant cytotoxic effects.
On faulty advice from a friend who was also a doctor, the composer Johann Schobert insisted that certain poisonous mushrooms he had gathered were edible despite the express warning of cooks at two separate restaurants to which he had taken the mushrooms.
In the 1960s, about 100,000 turkey poults died in southeastern England due to peanut meal that was contaminated by mycotoxins produced by Aspergillus flavus.
Symptoms usually resolve within a few hours of ingestion but can last for days following significant exposures.
Genotoxicity In mammalian cells in vitro, citrinin did not induce DNA single-strand breaks, oxidative DNA damage or sister chromatids exchanges but induced micronuclei, aneuploidy and chromosomal aberrations.
Physiologically, inhibition of the sodium-potassium pump generally causes diarrhea, as it prevents water reabsorption from the intestines.
Natural occurrence appears to be infrequent although only a limited number of surveys have been carried out.
Efficacy In vitro studies showed that a concentration of 30 μM of cytochalasin B significantly reduces the relative viscosity of a 20 μM normal actin filament solution as well as it has decreased in a 20 μMm glutathionyl-actin filament solution.
However, in some cases, CPA acts to enable store-operated calcium entry(SOCE), a process in which calcium-permeable channels are activated due to inhibition of the standard SERCA pump.
Further outbreaks of leukoencephalomalacia and people in certain regions with high incidence of esophageal cancer led to more research on F.
Efficacy As muscarine works on the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor, the best comparison can be made with acetylcholine, which normally works on this receptor.
Today it is known that ribotoxins constitute a broad family, produced by many types of fungi, with common characteristics that make them optimal candidates to be used for biotechnological purposes, such as pest control, and for the development of anti-cancer drugs in the form of immunotoxins.
In nature Natural occurrence in food crops As a mycotoxin, 3-nitropropionic acid is naturally produced by some fungi that infest plants and vegetables.
Immune cells can either be exposed extracellularly or intracellularly and this is due to the fact that phagocytes can be exposed to the fungal hyphae pre-phagocytosis or post-phagocytosis.
Risk management and regulations Aflatoxin B1 exposure is best managed by measures aimed at preventing contamination of crops in the field, post-harvest handling, and storage, or via measures aimed at detecting and decontaminating contaminated commodities or materials used in animal feed.
The phomoxanthones are structurally closely related to other tetrahydroxanthone dimers such as the secalonic acids and the eumitrins.
Clinical signs of avian ochratoxicosis generally involve reduction in weight gains, poor feed conversion, reduced egg production, and poor egg shell quality.
Studies have shown that at low concentrations, protein kinases C (PKC) are activated in vitro and in vero cells, leading to an increase in DNA synthesis activity.
Sources Mycoestrogens are produced by various strains of fungi, many of which fall under the genus Fusarium.
Dogs in particular react very strongly, with an observed LD50 as low as 0.5 mg/kg after repeated exposure.
It was isolated from the fungus Beauveria bassiana, but is also produced by several other fungi, including several Fusarium species; it may therefore occur in grain (such as corn, wheat and barley) contaminated with these fungi.
Toxicity studies in swine that received a dose of 0.05 mg nivalenol/kg body weight twice daily showed no lethal effects.
This vanadium center is bonded to two tetradentate ligands derived from N-hydroxyimino-2,2'-dipropionic acid, H3(HIDPA), ligands.
A Baeyer-Villiger oxidation converts the ketone to an ester (7) and a reduction with Raney nickel converts the ester into an alcohol and removes the triflic acid group.
In contrast, the USA as well as some European and several Asian countries accept a maximum level of 0.5 μg/kg aflatoxin M1 in milk, which is also the harmonized Mercosur limit applied in Latin America.
Total industrial syntheses of agaritine have been completed, with an 83% yield, and the overall yield of 33%.
These mycotoxins account for millions of dollars annually in losses, due to factors that are often beyond human control (environmental, ecological, or storage method).
Use and effects The first report about the possible effects of aeruginascin is from a study published by Jochen Gartz in 1989.
While this can happen with any mushroom, Chlorophyllum molybdites is often implicated due to its preference for growing in lawns.
These disruptions can lead to apoptosis or reduced cellular viability, contributing to its potential as an anticancer agent.
Additionally an ethyl-group connects the tetrahydropyran at C2 and C5 and a keto group is attached at the cyclohexene at C8.
It is reactive with sulfur dioxide, so antioxidant and antimicrobial agents may be useful to destroy it.
Although it is a potent neurotoxin at high doses, at low concentrations of 0.05 to 1.47 mg/kg that occur in domestic cheeses, it was found to be "safe for the consumer".
Genotoxicity The potency of aflatoxin B1 and aflatoxin M1 in inducing DNA damage and genotoxicity was tested in Drosophila melanogaster.
A relatively high proportion of α-zearalenol is formed from zearalenone compared to β-zearalenol in humans.
Although ochratoxin A is not held as of today as responsible for renal cell carcinoma (RCC), the most frequent renal cancer, it is frequently written that dietary pattern might decrease or increase the risk of RCC.
Birnbaumins are a pair of yellow indole alkaloids first isolated from the flowerpot parasol mushroom.
The first total synthesis of phalloidin was achieved through a combination of solid phase and solution phase synthesis (Baosheng Liu and Jianheng Zhang, United States Patent, US 8,569,452 B2).
Variation in their expression can influence host-organism metabolism and modulate interactions with the surrounding environment.
Toxicity Ustalic acid is an inhibitor of the sodium-potassium pump (Na+/K+-ATPase), found in the plasma membrane of all animal cells.
After selective methylation of one of the phenol groups and reduction of the pyrone ring, the resulting intermediate (semiviriditoxin) is dimerised by a laccase enzyme, generating specifically the minus M atropisomer.
Hybrids created using TeA and a known AD drug exhibit even better acetylcholinesterase inhibiting activity.
Sterigmatocystin was shown to be produced only in the absence of glucose (carbon catabolite repression) but independent of CreA when glucose is used as sole carbon source.
The compound is very unstable, but can be isolated as an ester of benzhydrol by reacting the methanol extract of Pleurocybella mushrooms with diphenyldiazomethane.
In the final step the coumarin skeleton is added to 9 by a combined coupling reaction with zinc carbonate of the vinyl bromide in 8 and a transesterification step between the phenol group and the ethyl ester group.
It is slightly soluble in hexane and progressively more so in benzene, acetonitrile, methylene chloride, methanol, ethanol, and acetone.
In terms of its structure, it is the alkali metal salt of the conjugate base of 3-hydroxy-1,2-cyclobutenedione (the enolate of 1,2,3-cyclobutanetrione), a planar molecule related to squaric acid.
Polyporic acid is a para-terphenyl benzoquinone compound first identified by German chemist Stahlschmidt from a mycelial culture of the fungus species Hapalopilus nidulans in 1877.
A loline alkaloid is a member of the 1-aminopyrrolizidines (often referred to as lolines), which are bioactive natural products with several distinct biological and chemical features.
Fumonisin B4 (or FB4) is a fumonisin mycotoxin produced mainly by the fungi Fusarium proliferatum, Fusarium verticillioides (formerly Fusarium moniliforme).
Subchronic toxicity Subchronic toxicity studies of aflatoxin B1 in fish showed fish to present with preneoplastic lesions, concurrently with changes in gill, pancreas, intestine and spleen.
Similarly, co-supplementation of modified glucomannans and selenium in the diets of chickens also consuming T-2 toxin, reduced the deleterious effects of toxin associated depletion of antioxidants in the liver.
MMH is a hydrazine derivative that was once used in the orbital maneuvering system (OMS) and reaction control system (RCS) engines of NASA's Space Shuttle, which used MMH and MON-3 (a mixture of nitrogen tetroxide with approximately 3% nitric oxide).
The human and livestock exposure to ZEN through the diet poses health concern due to the onset of several sexual disorders and alterations in the development of sexual organs.
Other compounds were later also classified as phomoxanthones, although a unifying nomenclature has not yet been established.
However, global warming is increasingly affecting the mycotoxin map in Europe, producing "tropical toxins" within Europe's borders.
It was first isolated from the Fusarium proliferatum species but can be found in at least 15 species within this genus.
It is less acutely toxic to rodents and monkeys but appears to be slightly more toxic to zebra fish.
Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs) inhibit the breakdown of acetylcholine — allowing for prolonged action of acetylcholine in the nervous system.
It is produced in the mushrooms along with muscarine (which is present in trace amounts and it is not active), muscazone, and ibotenic acid.
It is used as a rocket propellant in bipropellant rocket engines because it is hypergolic with various oxidizers such as nitrogen tetroxide (N2O4) and nitric acid (HNO3).
Bioconversion pathway Aflatoxin M1 (AFM1), the principal hydroxylated metabolite of AFB1, is found in the milk (hence the designation M) of mammals fed with contaminated feedstuff.
Toxicity Fumonisin B4 belongs to the class of FB analogues, which is the most significant group from toxicity perspective.
The PP2A inhibitory activity of rubratoxin A is about 100-fold higher than rubratoxin B and rubratoxin A is now used as a chemical probe for PP2A research.
The BOC group is removed by reaction with gaseous hydrogen chloride in methanol, and the amino group is protected with 2,4-dinitrobenzenesulfonyl chloride using 2,6-lutidine as the base.
Rugulosin is an anthraquinoid mycotoxin with the molecular formula C30H22O10 which is produced by Penicillium species.
Agaritine content (% fresh weight) in raw Agaricus bisporus, for example, ranges from 0.033% to 0.173%, with an average of 0.088%.
In this crystal structure, the two pyridine rings are nearly perpendicular to each other, making orellanine chiral.
The fungus also produces other phytotoxic compounds, such as sterpurene, which contribute to its pathogenicity.
Oxidative-transformation enzyme catalyzes the formation of an epoxide ring at penitrem C's oxane-double bond, forming penitrem F.
Neurotoxicity Ochratoxin A has a strong affinity for the brain, especially the cerebellum (Purkinje cells), ventral mesencephalon, and hippocampal structures.
The fungi are abundant in various agricultural products (cereal crops) and their further processed products such as bread.
It is a less toxic isomer of phomoxanthone A and one of the two founding members of the class of phomoxanthone compounds.
Phalloidin had been isolated in 1937 by Feodor Lynen, Heinrich Wieland's student and son-in-law, and Ulrich Wieland of LMU Munich.
It has been speculated that it uses H2O2 and acts as a peroxidase to aid the regeneration of damaged tissues.
Mevalonic acid undergoes phosphorylation and enzymatic transformations, creating isopentenyl pyrophosphate (IPP).
Gastric decontamination with activated charcoal or gastric lavage can be of benefit if the patient presents early.
It was first isolated from a strain of Penicillium roqueforti, a species commercially used as a source of proteolytic and lipolytic enzymes during maturation of the blue-veined cheeses, Roquefort, Danish Blue, Stilton and Gorgonzola.
More specifically, the term refers primarily to the family of compounds that includes the widely studied fumonisins B1, B2, B3, and B4, as well as others.
Diacetoxyscirpenol (DAS), also called anguidine, is a mycotoxin from the group of type A trichothecenes.
It seemed that a 2 μM concentration is sufficient in living cells to accomplish a measurable influence on the actin polymerization.
Oosporein was first extracted from various molds and has antibiotic, antiviral, cytotoxic, antifungal, and Insecticide properties.
Death after 8 to 9 hours has been reported in about 5% of the cases, but can be avoided completely by prompt administration of IV or IM anticholinergic drugs.
While not carcinogenic itself, CPA is often found co-contaminating crops and food items alongside carcinogenic aflatoxins.
The naturally occurring isomer trans-zearalenone (trans-ZEN) is transformed by ultraviolet irradiation to cis-zearalenone (cis-ZEN).
It acts as a selective antagonist for the cholecystokinin receptor CCKA, and has been used as a lead compound for the development of a number of novel CCKA antagonists with potential clinical applications.
It is a tetrameric acid that is ubiquitous in biological environments and prevents the release of newly synthesized protein from the ribosome.
Aristolochene synthase catalyzes two sequential cyclization steps in this reaction and is considered the rate-limiting enzyme in both this pathway and the downstream production of PR toxin.
The effects of nivalenol are in the same range as same doses of deoxynivalenol, whereas the T-2 toxin are 100 fold more toxic.
In fact, it is more potent as a partial agonist of the GABAA-ρ receptor than as a GABAA receptor agonist.
1-Aminocyclopropanol also deactivates the esterase activity of aldehyde dehydrogenase, but less significantly.
It is the β epimer of α-zearalenol and along with α-zearalenol is a major metabolite of zearalenone formed mainly in the liver but also to a lesser extent in the intestines during first-pass metabolism.
Structurally, the only thing that differentiates cyclochlorotine from the plant-derived astins of Aster tataricus, is replacement of a serine with a second 2-aminobutyrate.
3-(Cycloprop-2-en-1-oyl)oxazolidinones are a class of ‘unusually stable’ derivatives of cycloprop-2-ene carboxylic acid that have been synthesized by Fox et al.
These rats were subcutaneously administered with 35 mg/kg C-labeled citrinin on day 12 of pregnancy.
4-HO-TMT is a quaternary trimethyl ammonium compound, and as a result, is less likely to be able to cross the blood–brain barrier (BBB) and enter the central nervous system than other tryptamines.
This chemical, present at 20–40% of the fresh weight of the fruit bodies, inhibits the enzyme dihydroorotate dehydrogenase.
Ultimately, the intensity of the symptoms and the severity of potential diseases are based on age, weight, intensity of toxins, longevity of exposure, diet and therefore can differ from person to person.
Since acetaldehyde is toxic and can no longer be metabolized to the less toxic acetic acid, the characteristic symptoms of coprine poisoning occur.
The affected individuals mainly suffered from chronic kidney failure, which explains why the mushrooms can often be consumed without any recognizable health consequences.
In the 10 years prior to the last harvest—between 2001 and 2011—a total of nine cases of aflatoxins were reported in maize.
Ibotenic acid, a prodrug of muscimol, is active at doses of approximately 20 to 100 mg orally in humans.
If PR toxin was injected intraperitoneally, cats, mice and rats developed ascites fluid and edema of the lungs and scrotum.
The phallotoxins consist of at least seven compounds, all of which are bicyclic heptapeptides (seven amino acids), isolated from the death cap mushroom (Amanita phalloides).
Detection The early methods developed for the determination of gyromitrin concentration in mushroom tissue were based on thin-layer chromatography and spectrofluorometry, or the electrochemical oxidation of hydrazine.
Furthermore, the CC50-value in human B-Lymphocyte IARC-171 cells was 60–65 μM after 24 hours and 55 μM after 48 hours.
4-HO-TMT, or 4-OH-TMT, also known as 4-hydroxy-N,N,N-trimethyltryptammonium or as dephosphorylated aeruginascin, is a substituted tryptamine derivative and the active form of aeruginascin (4-PO-TMT), analogously to how psilocin (4-HO-DMT) is the active form of psilocybin (4-PO-DMT).
Synthesis In Penicillium crustosum, synthesis of penitrem A and other secondary metabolites follows the synthesis of paxilline.
While this lack of information may be due to deficiencies in the analytical methods, where surveys of good quality products have been carried out with reliable methodology, sterigmatocystin has rarely if ever been found.
Family background As of 2000, 15 different fumonisins had been reported, and other minor metabolites have been characterized.
Diacetylverrucarol is undergoing study for its successful effects at reducing or killing the kudzu weed.
Though highly toxic to liver cells, phallotoxins have since been found to have little contribution to the death cap's toxicity because they are not absorbed through the gut.
Estrogen are known to cause decreased body weight in model animals, and the same effect has been seen in rats exposed to zearalenone.
A low socioeconomic status and a less varied diet, that mainly consists of corn and wheat, is associated with the appearance of esophageal cancer.
A chain of eight acetate units are cyclised to give the three-ring system which forms half of the carbon framework of the final product.
Toxic effects in humans Neural tube defects Neural tube defect are abnormalities of the brain and spinal cord in the embryo resulting from failure of the neural tube to close.
Fusarium fungi are filamentous fungi that are found in the soil and are associated with plants and some crops, especially cereals.
Examples of pro-inflammatory cytokines that can activate the p38 MAP Kinase include tumor necrosis factor, Interleukin-1, and lipopolysaccharide (LPS).
Notable exposures The discovery of aflatoxin B1 came on the heels of the widespread death of turkeys in England in the summer of 1960 to some unknown disease, at the time labeled "Disease X".
Agaratine decomposes significantly between harvest and sale, and it has also been shown to decompose readily upon cooking (up to 90% reduction) as well as upon freezing (up to 75% reduction).
The corn component of the dog food was reportedly contaminated with aflatoxins, though the contributing corn load passed screening at the facility.
These compounds are generally very stable and are not degraded during storage/milling and cooking/processing of food.
albicans strains missing Candidalysin do not damage epithelial cells and are said to be avirulent with respect to mucosal infections.
Although its lethal dose was determined shortly after the isolation of the chemical, details of its toxic effects were not fully clarified until 1982 in a study with mice, rats, anesthetized cats and preparations of isolated rat auricles.
It has since been found to be a constituent of a variety of other fungi including those in the genus Penicillium and Aspergillus.
The carcinogenic potency of aflatoxin M1 in sensitive species is about one order of magnitude less than that of aflatoxin B1.
A relatively low proportion of β-zearalenol is metabolized from zearalenone compared to α-zearalenol in humans.
Monomethylhydrazine (MMH) is a highly toxic, volatile hydrazine derivative with the chemical formula CH6N2.
It disrupts actin microfilaments and activates the p53-dependent pathways causing arrest of the cell cycle at the G1-S transition.
Sterpuric acid disrupts plant cell membranes, leading to necrosis and the characteristic silvering of leaves.
In addition, it has been demonstrated that secalonic acid A protects against dopaminergic neuron death in a Parkinson's disease mouse model.
The anion features five chiral centers, one at vanadium and the four carbon atoms having S stereochemistry.
Biochemistry Moniliformin actually causes competitive inhibition of the activity of pyruvate dehydrogenase complex of respiratory reaction, which prevents pyruvic acid, product of glycolysis, to convert to acetyl-CoA.
Cases of severe poisoning may progress to a terminal neurological phase, with delirium, muscle fasciculations and seizures, and mydriasis progressing to coma, circulatory collapse, and respiratory arrest.
At least in the case of Aspergillus, it appears that they occur during the maturation of conidia, most likely as a defense mechanism against predators.
β-Zearalenol is a nonsteroidal estrogen of the resorcylic acid lactone group related to mycoestrogens found in Fusarium spp.
Then salivation, lacrimation, and diffuse perspiration set in, combined with miosis, disturbed accommodation, and reduced vision.
Tenuazonic acid was also observed to have the ability to chelate heavy metals that directly contribute to increasing oxidative stress.) Five derivatives of tenuazonic acid synthesized and tested for effectiveness in AD treatment showed multi-target activity.
Enzymatic mechanism Ribotoxins cleave RNA following a general acid-base mechanism shared by all the extracellular fungal RNases so far characterized, regardless of their toxicity.
Since Vmax remained the same according to another study, it is evident that CE is indeed a competitive inhibitor at the intestinal receptor sites for glucose.
Particularly, ZEN is produced by Fusarium graminearum, Fusarium culmorum, Fusarium cerealis, Fusarium equiseti, Fusarium verticillioides, and Fusarium incarnatum.
Subsequent research in 1994 identified a new and distinct teleomorph of the toxicogenic variety and named it Diaporthe toxica, establishing it as the true causative agent of lupinosis.
Development of severe cardiopulmonary distress may require intubation and additional drug treatments to stabilize heart and lung activity.
Bolesatine is a glycoprotein isolated from the Rubroboletus satanas (Boletus satanas Lenz) mushroom which has a lectin function that is specific to the sugar binding site of D-galactose.
Cytochalasin B makes the cytoplasm of the oocytes more fluid and makes it possible to aspirate the nuclear genome of the oocyte within a small vesicle of plasma membrane into a micro-needle.
Each of these disciplines (rhetoric, sociolinguistics, discourse analysis, conversation analysis, etc.) is based on a specific interest.
noun, verb, pronoun, preposition) in formal, written sentences in a restricted number of "valued" varieties of English.
MDA has a concrete link to the social practice theory developed by Bourdieu, in that Scollon (2001a, p.
In systemic functional grammar, a thematic equative is a thematic resource in which two or more separate elements in a clause are grouped together to form a single constituent of the theme-plus-rheme structure.
For example, two notably distinct discourses can be used about various guerrilla movements, describing them either as "freedom fighters" or "terrorists".
The essential difference between discourse analysis and text linguistics is that discourse analysis aims at revealing socio-psychological characteristics of a person/persons rather than text structure.
Halliday's seminal Introduction to Functional Grammar (first edition, 1985) spawned a new research discipline and related pedagogical approaches.
Ulrike Hanna Meinhof is an Emeritus Professor in the Department of Modern Languages at the University of Southampton in Hampshire.
L2 (English) Corpora Cambridge Learner Corpus Corpus of Academic Written and Spoken English (CAWSE), a collection of Chinese students’ English language samples in academic settings.
Since the beginning of her academic career, she has studied humour, irony, impoliteness and deception from both theoretical and empirical angles, based on film discourse and social media data.
As a functional linguistic theory, it claims that both the emergence of grammar and the particular forms that grammars take should be explained "in terms of the functions that language evolved to serve".
The term was first coined by the American applied linguist Robert Kaplan in 1966 to denote eclecticism and subsequent growth of collective knowledge in certain languages.
So, here's a carefully packaged sentence that shows me in my best light The Guardian Oliver James 26 Jul 2013
Halliday argues that the meanings we make in such processes are most closely related to the experiential function.
And in February 2016, BYU Law School hosted the inaugural conference on LCL, with over two dozen legal and linguistic scholars from around the country discussing and debating the next steps forward for the growing academic movement.
The company has been repeatedly criticized by linguists for promoting misinformation about language.
Trainees listened through headphones to recordings containing expressions such as 'Bakugeki junbi taikei tsukure' (Take up formation for bombing).
The graph in the re-formulation by Mizutani is more easily interpreted, and shows a scatter plot of nouns versus other word classes.
Papers from the 29th International Conference on English Language Research on Computerized Corpora (ICAME 29).
The archaeological method focused on discursive statements and archives (épistémès), whereas the genealogical approach re-centres the problem of the production of knowledge around questions of power and is grounded in an institutional analysis (dispositifs).
The most salient difference is that a translation memory loses the original context, while a bitext retains the original sentence order.
Contextualist accounts of knowledge became increasingly popular toward the end of the 20th century, particularly as responses to the problem of skepticism.
A single text may belong to several regional subcorpora (if the author or translator was born, studied, or lived for a long time in different regions).
Matthiessen has suggested that the approach could be used with other global semiotic dimensions, specifying: the cline of instantiation the spectrum of metafunction the hierarchy of rank the hierarchy of axis See also Trinocular vision == References ==
For example, the meaning of the phrase "the Queen" may be determined by the country in which it is spoken.
The corpus of an ancient city, (for example the "Kültepe Texts" of Turkey), may go through a series of corpora, determined by their find site dates.
There is one more referential device, which cannot create cohesion: Exophoric reference is used to describe generics or abstracts without ever identifying them (in contrast to anaphora and cataphora, which do identify the entity and thus are forms of endophora): e.g.
Poynton was a pioneer in the description of tenor and interpersonal meaning, which later became foundational to the development of the appraisal framework.
Utilizing Gumperz's framework this way that showed that this type of therapy is perhaps creating a bigger divide between patients and staff.
Contextualization does not only ease everyday understand of language and language interactions, but it also aids in language learning and comprehension in an academic setting.
Examples of dangling "so": "Yeah, it's pretty exciting, though we're not really sure whether it will work out, so..." Speaker 1: "How was your date?" Speaker 2: "Well, he didn't show up, so..." Intensifying adverb "So" may close a sentence as an intensifying adverb, such as in "I love her so".
Text corpora are used by both AI developers to train large language models and corpus linguists and within other branches of linguistics for statistical analysis, hypothesis testing, finding patterns of language use, investigating language change and variation, and teaching language proficiency.
The corpus covers the period from 1816 to 2025, and as of 29 November 2025 it contains more than 812,000 texts by about 35,000 authors.
During translation, sentences can be split, merged, deleted, inserted or reordered by the translator.
Linguistic analysis, methods such as examining linguistic structures and the roles they play within conversational discourse, play a large role in using discourse analysis to establish relational frameworks.
Thus, various types of comparative studies and applications in information technology as well as development of often related innovative applications have been possible.
At one end of the spectrum would lie CDA and its focus on how wider discourses in the social realm affect language used by actors: whilst at the other end of this spectrum would feature conversation analysis, with its highly detailed focus on linguistic construction.
Modernism further gave rise to the liberal discourses of rights, equality, freedom, and justice; however, this rhetoric masked substantive inequality and failed to account for differences, according to Regnier.
According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2016 impact factor of 2.074, ranking it 17th out of 58 journals in the category "Educational Psychology (social science)" and 39th out of 84 journals in the category "Experimental Psychology (social science)".
Results from the extensive and accumulative data analysis contained in LIVAC have enabled the cultivation of textual databases of proper names, place names, organization names, new words, and bi-weekly and annual rosters of media figures.
Some words are often found together because they make up a compound noun, for example 'riding boots' or 'motor cyclist' or ‘collocation extraction’ its very self.
Berger and Thomas Luckmann who in the 1960s studied the processes involved in the social construction of generally accessible everyday knowledge in their defining work, The Social Construction of Reality.
Treebanks also provide evidence of coverage and support the discovery of new, unanticipated, grammatical phenomena.
The field brought attention to cultural and associated linguistic habits in expression of English language.
Career Marta Dynel received her PhD (2006) from the University of Łódź, followed by habilitation (dr Litt.) in 2012 and a full professor degree in 2022.
The analysis of appraisal has also become influential outside Systemic Functional Linguistics, in various types of discourse analysis.
To wit, the énoncés (statements) constitute a network of rules that establish which expressions are discursively meaningful; the rules are the preconditions for signifying propositions, utterances, and acts of speech to have discursive meaning.
The interviewer, an African-American graduate student in educational psychology, has been sent to interview a woman at her home in a low-income neighborhood.
Formulaic language pause fillers include "Like", "Er" and "Um", and paralinguistic expressive respiratory pauses include the sigh and gasp.
Since this is a competition of ideas, a particular imaginary is 'successful' when people, the more the better, consider that imaginary common sense, i.e.
John Arnold Bateman (born 1957) is a British linguist and semiotician known for his research on natural language generation and multimodality.
When examined by itself, "me too" does not convey Speaker B's stance nor what they are talking about.
He invests his entire self in discourse, and this discourse enters into the dialogic fabric of human life, into the world symposium." Bakhtin's understanding of dialogue Dialogue is usually analyzed as some kind of interaction between two monads on the basis of a pre-conceived model.
In the phrasing of this response, the speaker is either warning John not join the group, or is giving him orientation so that he can understand the context of the discussion and participate.
Speaking is one among other symbolic resources which are allocated and distributed in social situations according to distinctive culture patterns." Hymes also used EOC to argue against the strong view of the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis, the idea that one's language determines one's cognitive ability.
Interactional stances In Conversation analysis, stance is used to express various nuances of action or an overlay to an action.
Furthermore, the illocutionary act is implicitly describing what the speaker is doing even though the utterance is lacking a performative verb.
A unique feature of the thematic equative is its conveying of a meaning of exclusiveness in the rheme.
In a society there are competing discourses (or narratives) regarding anything and everything such as feminism, racism, casteism, communalism, regionalism, economic development, democracy, governance, etc.
From 1998 onwards he has worked at the Universities of Essex and Nottingham and at the Postgraduate Programme of the Department of Political Science and History of Panteion University.
It was first created in the English language and the English WordNet database and software tools have been released under a BSD style license and are freely available for download.
The Google Books Ngram Viewer was developed in the hope of opening a new window to quantitative research in the humanities field, and the database contained 500 billion words from 5.2 million books publicly available from the very beginning.
According to Scahill, an individual arguing "for the children" makes it extremely difficult for an opponent to hold a "not for the children" position.
Each sample is 2,000 or more words (ending at the first sentence-end after 2,000 words, so that the corpus contains only complete sentences).
Whorf "showed how it is that human beings do not all mean alike, and how their unconscious ways of meaning are among the most significant manifestations of their culture".
Her main areas of research involve ethnographic research in European border communities and a comparative media-project about the 20th century on television.
Modern etymologists link it to the north-African Arab term tafaya/attatfíha, which refers to a stew of onion and coriander.
In the latter area he has written various handbooks: Initiation aux méthodes de l’analyse du discours (1976), Nouvelles tendances en analyse du discours (1987), Analyser les textes de communication (1998), Discours et analyse du discours (2014).
In Practice In terms of research methods, interactional sociolinguists analyze audio or video recordings of conversations or other interactions.
As a lexical ontology WordNet is sometimes called an ontology, a persistent claim that its creators do not make.
These conditions are called felicity conditions and are divided into three different categories: the essential condition, the sincerity condition, and the preparatory condition.
The data collection involved in MDA is relatively straightforward, with perhaps the exception of the desirability to record events at the site of engagement, which might result in access issues in some cases.
However, it should be obvious that only by a process of correcting and completing a corpus by hand is it possible then to identify rules absent from the parser knowledge base.
In the case of 'affect', for instance, these more delicate choices relate to different types of emotion.
Address and the semiotics of social relations: A systemic-functional account of address forms and practices in Australian English.
In the Science paper, Lieberman and his collaborators called the method of high-volume data analysis in digitized texts "culturomics".
Wallis (2008) discusses the principles of searching treebanks in detail and reviews the state of the art around that time.
"Grammar, language and the social: Poststructuralism and systemic-functional linguistics." Social Semiotics 3.1.
This "literally", according to Hugh Kenner, means what Lily herself would say, and not the classical literary narrator.
The JRC-Acquis Multilingual Parallel Corpus of the total body of European Union (EU) law: Acquis Communautaire with 231 language pairs.
With rates Y 0 , y , Y 1 {\displaystyle Y_{0},y,Y_{1}} for usage of another word class of the same 3 literatures, respectively, then 3 points, ( X 0 , Y 0 ) , ( x , y ) , ( X 1 , Y 1 ) {\displaystyle (X_{0},Y_{0}),(x,y),(X_{1},Y_{1})} will approximately be located on a line.
Bitexts are generated by a piece of software called an alignment tool, or a bitext tool, which automatically aligns the original and translated versions of the same text.
an approach to linguistic analysis based on the view that language patterns cannot be accounted for in terms of a single system of analytic principles and categories ...
The International Computer Archive of Modern and Medieval English (ICAME) is an international group of linguists and data scientists working in corpus linguistics to digitise English texts.
Satellite discourse in a changing Europe (with Kay Richardson), London & New York: Routledge, 1999 English in a Changing World (with David Graddol) (1999) Intertextuality and the Media: from Genre to Everyday life (with Jonathan M.
Consistency of textual location refers not to any gross notion of location, such as every other paragraph or every five lines.
History Early use of the term There is ongoing discussion about whether Austria-born Leo Spitzer's Stilstudien (Style Studies) of 1928 is the earliest example of discourse analysis (DA).
While other corpus projects of Russian are focused on fiction and edited texts, General Internet Corpus provides linguists timely opportunity to learn the language as it is, with all the slang and regional peculiarities.
Damon Mayaffre (born 1970) is a French academic, historian and linguist, specializing in the analysis of political discourse.
She then took up a part-time post of Professor in Psychology at the University of Auckland, New Zealand.
See also Collocational restriction Collostructional analysis Compound noun, adjective and verb Phrasal verb Siamese twins (English language) Terminology extraction n-gram analysis External links What is collocation == References ==
Examples of this work include Philipsen's study, which examined the ways in which blue-collar men living near Chicago spoke or did not speak based on communication context and personal identity relationship status (i.e.
Inclusiveness of politeness strategies Some claim that a few of these techniques may be used in more than one type of situation or more than one at a time.
Some contextualization cues include: intonation, accents, body language, type of language, and facial expressions (Andersen and Risør 2014).
In his study Joyce's Voices, Kenner analyzes in depth the use of this technique throughout the novel Ulysses.
Wörterbuch der Kriegstüchtigkeit (German pronunciation: [ˈvœʁtɐbʊx deːɐ̯ ˈkʁiːkstuːχtɪçkaɪt]; the title can be translated in various ways, such as “Dictionary of War Readiness”, “Dictionary of War Capability” or “Lexicon of Combat Capability”) is a German-language dictionary in the making.
Reception The philosopher Gilles Deleuze describes The Archaeology of Knowledge as, "the most decisive step yet taken in the theory-practice of multiplicities." See also Foucauldian discourse analysis References Further reading Deleuze, Gilles.
In addition, some other researchers focused on the acquaintance of politeness strategies and knowledge about politeness difference in foreign language education.
Sketch Engine: Open corpora with free access TS Corpus – A Turkish Corpus freely available for academic research.
An additional pitch-related variation is pitch range; speakers are capable of speaking with a wide range of pitch (this is usually associated with excitement), while at other times with a narrow range.
If the clerk had proceeded to explain what chocolate filbert is, then it is possible that the customer would have asked for some.
Part of the motivation was to support the benchmark-oriented methodology of DARPA's Human Language Technology program.
Payack, the GLM describes its role as "a media analytics company that documents, analyzes and tracks cultural trends in language the world over, with a particular emphasis upon International and Global English".
She is affiliated with the University of Łódź and Vilnius Gediminas Technical University, holding two research fellow positions.
ISBN 978-90-420-2127-3 / ISBN 90-420-2127-6 References External links Language and Computers on the publisher's website
Key publications Books Text generation and systemic-functional linguistics: experiences from English and Japanese (with Christian M.
This tenet of systemic functional linguistics is based on the claim that a speaker not only talks about something, but is always talking to and with others.
Democracy is the policy of government that tries to bring morality and politics closer to one another until they coincide.
The Global Wordnet project attempts to coordinate the production and linking of "wordnets" for all languages.
Teun Adrianus van Dijk (born 7 May 1943 in Naaldwijk, German-occupied Netherlands) is a scholar in the fields of text linguistics, discourse analysis and Critical Discourse Analysis (CDA).
Democracy is the form of government which gives, or tries to give, the people the illusion of their own sovereignty.
He received his MA and PhD degrees from the 'Ideology and Discourse Analysis' programme at the University of Essex.
Although related to breathing, pauses may contain contrastive linguistic content, as in the periods between individual words in English advertising voice-over copy sometimes placed to denote high information content, e.g.
This imaginary is particularly concerned with the role of power and politics, seeing data as situated within "a complex assemblage that actively shapes their constitution" according to Rob Kitchin, a leading scholar in the field.
He identifies that Léon Blum made limited use of the vocabulary pertaining to class struggle in the 1930s, in favor of language more palatable to the public.
Turkish National Corpus – A general-purpose corpus for contemporary Turkish Archived 2 April 2015 at the Wayback Machine Corpus of Political Speeches, Free access to political speeches by American and Chinese politicians, developed by Hong Kong Baptist University Library Russian National Corpus
For example, some terms generally considered context-sensitive are indexicals, such as 'I', 'here', and 'now'; while 'I' has a constant linguistic meaning in all contexts of use, whom it refers to varies with context.
Political discourse analysis is a field of discourse analysis which focuses on discourse in political forums (such as debates, speeches, and hearings) as the phenomenon of interest.
In the treatment of illness, the intellectual and material structures of la clinique, the teaching hospital, made possible the inspection, examination, and analysis of the human body, yet the clinic was part of the socio-economic interests of power.
By the early decades of the sixteenth century, vernacular versions of Aristotle's Poetics appeared, culminating in Lodovico Castelvetro's Italian editions of 1570 and 1576.
It mostly consists of a rapid recording online service which allows the user to chain hundreds of recordings.
There followed an ever-expanding corpus of texts on poetics in the later fifteenth century and throughout the sixteenth, a phenomenon that began in Italy and spread to Spain, England, and France.
Stavrakakis has also been twice elected in the executive board of the Hellenic Political Science Association, where he has served as Vice-President.
Since the 1980s his work in CDA focused especially on the study of the discursive reproduction of racism by what he calls the 'symbolic elites' (politicians, journalists, scholars, writers), the study of news in the press, and on the theories of ideology, context and knowledge.
Firth is noted for drawing attention to the context-dependent nature of meaning with his notion of 'context of situation', and his work on collocational meaning is widely acknowledged in the field of distributional semantics.
Selected papers from the Sixth International Conference on Teaching and Language Corpora (TaLC 6), Edited by Encarnación Hidalgo, Luis Quereda and Juan Santana.
For example, many of the remaining undeciphered Mayan glyphs are hapax legomena, and Biblical (particularly Hebrew; see § Hebrew) hapax legomena sometimes pose problems in translation.
**Shows interest in H **Claims common ground with H **Seeks agreement **Gives sympathy Negative redressive action *S satisfies H's desires to be unimpeded—the want that is directly challenged by the face-threatening act.
It is published by Routledge on behalf of the Society for Text and Discourse, of which it is the official journal.
Positioning Speakers can use stance to define their relation to an object without having to assign it value.
The term metafunction originates in systemic functional linguistics and is considered to be a property of all languages.
In Book III Plato defines poetry as a type of narrative which takes one of three forms: the "simple," the "imitative" (mimetic), or any mix of the two.
By adopting the theatrical metaphor of scène d’énonciation, Maingueneau endeavors to enter discourse “from the inside.” • Ethos: he contributed to introducing the question of ethos into the field of discourse analysis.
In spring 2021, Lingua Libre was offline due to a fire in Strasbourg, but no audio recordings were lost.
A thematic equative allows for all possible parts of a clause to be shifted to the start, to be the theme, so that the message can be structured in whatever way the speaker or writer wants.
Systemic errors like the confusion of s and f in pre-19th century texts (due to the use of ſ, the long s, which is similar in appearance to f) can cause systemic bias.
Linking up contrastive and learner corpus research., Edited by Gaëtanelle Gilquin, Szilvia Papp and María Belén Díez-Bedmar.
collections of texts in machine-readable form, is the most accessible way to study both transcribed spoken language and various genres of written texts for modern scholars, including both "descriptive and more theoretically-minded linguists".
The Global Language Monitor (GLM) is a company based in Austin, Texas, that analyzes trends in the English language.
Popularization Film and television According to Kathryn Laity, early use of the phrase may have stemmed from its appearance in the 1964 Walt Disney Pictures film Mary Poppins.
Channel and signal of a communication event and register of communication together control discourse and therefore, determine the degree of social inclusion and social exclusion and, by extension, the relative efficiency of that communication event.
Child advocacy "Think of the children" has been used in its literal sense to advocate for the rights of children.
The alignment of MDA to the practice perspective, and the need for establishing mediational means partly via a thematic analysis, ensures linkages back to the literature.
Writing on Language Log, the linguist Ben Zimmer accused it of "hoodwink[ing] unsuspecting journalists on a range of pseudoscientific claims".
The Archaeology of Knowledge (French: L’archéologie du savoir) by Michel Foucault is a 1969 treatise about the methodology and historiography of the systems of thought (epistemes) and of knowledge (discursive formations).
Fawcett (born 1937) is a British linguist known as the main exponent of the Cardiff grammar in systemic functional linguistics.
The speaker of such a sentence may intend to exhibit a friendly attitude, but a listener might become irritated if they suppose the speaker's intention is snobbishly to impress them.
The analysis then deals with the organized dispersion of statements, discursive formations, and Foucault reiterates that the outlined archaeology of knowledge is one possible method of historical analysis.
Katz, Steven B., "GUEST EDITORIAL: A RESPONSE TO PATRICK MOORE'S "QUESTIONING THE MOTIVES OF TECHNICAL COMMUNICATION AND RHETORIC: STEVEN KATZ'S 'ETHIC OF EXPEDIENCY'"." Journal of Technical Writing & Communication, 2006, Vol.
The teaching hospital, la clinique, was established upon the new medical praxis of verifiable observation, which is scientifically more accurate than the old medical praxis based upon religious interpretations of disease.
Socially situated writing Second, in addition to the expansion of the genre, textual analysis has moved contrastive rhetoric to emphasize the social situation of writing.
Text corpora (singular: text corpus) are large and structured sets of texts, which have been systematically collected.
In Systemic Functional Linguistics (SFL), appraisal refers to the ways that writers or speakers express approval or disapproval for things, people, behaviour or ideas.
The term of semantic argument was introduced by Teresa Hołówka in 1990, and later developed by Jakub Prus and other logicians.
Under this perspective, data are treated as tools to achieve some form of justice rather than as a neutral resource.
For this reason, Kenner claims, Joyce seems to use a much less "objective" narrator than it seems at first glance.
In ethics, "contextualist" views are often closely associated with situational ethics, or with moral relativism.
Words can insinuate an action or an emotion in the listener, whether or not it was the speaker's intention.
The experiential function refers to the grammatical resources involved in construing the flux of experience through the unit of the clause.
The study of communicative distance involves looking at a text's cohesion—that is, how it hangs together, as well as any abstract language it uses.
Contextualism, also known as epistemic contextualism, is a family of views in philosophy which emphasize the context in which an action, utterance, or expression occurs.
Other levels of linguistic structured analysis are possible, including annotations for morphology, semantics and pragmatics.
For example: After eating sevenTEEN, PICKLES did not scare him After eating SEVENteen PICKLES, he was afraid Contrastive stress is another everyday English example of phrasal prosody that helps us determine what parts of the sentence are important.
Examples of perlocutionary acts include persuading, convincing, scaring, enlightening, inspiring, or otherwise affecting the interlocutor.
This one, in his masterful collection of stories El Llano en llamas, and Asturias, in Hombres de maíz, consciously or not, adapted the Joycean "Uncle Charles Principle", making their narrators transfigure linguistically in the peasant, the indigenous or in the indigenism they tried to portray.
Some fiction genres are highlighted separately: children’s literature, folklore, dramatic works, and scripts.
Although originally limited to the academic discourses of post-modernism and post-structuralism, the medical gaze term is used in graduate medicine and social work.
HMMs underlie the functioning of stochastic taggers and are used in various algorithms one of the most widely used being the bi-directional inference algorithm.
As an utterance, a locutionary act is considered a performative, in which both the audience and the speaker must trust certain conditions about the speech act.
Keys to determining whether a discourse is open or closed include access to information, equity of access, open access, quality of discourse and mechanisms and modalities of discourse control: overt, covert, implicit and incidental.
Multimodality: Foundations, research and analysis – A problem-oriented introduction (with Janina Wildfeuer and Tuomo Hiippala; de Gruyter, 2017).
He studied political science at Panteion University (Athens) and discourse analysis at Essex University.
"To Execute Capital Punishment: The Mortification and Scapegoating of Illinois Governor George Ryan".
The Rhetoric of Hitler's "Battle" is an influential essay written by Kenneth Burke in 1939 which offered a rhetorical analysis of Adolf Hitler's rise to power in Germany.
It creates, collects and distributes speech and text databases, lexicons, and other resources for linguistics research and development purposes.
Simplification is a particularly effective rhetorical device to deal with an uncritical population by permitting rhetoricians to rise to power through their persuasive abilities and frequently outmaneuvering those with expert knowledge who do not communicate well.
For example, in the Spanish translation of A Portrait, by Damaso Alonso, this expressive joycean nuance is lost, since Alonso proposed a simple "se encaminaba a" ("headed to") by "repaired".
Chilton is Professor Emeritus in the Department of Linguistics and English Language at the University of Lancaster.
So is an English word that, apart from its other uses, has become increasingly popular in recent years as a coordinating conjunctive opening word in a sentence.
It was the first monograph that explicitly took an ethnography of speaking perspective to the whole range of verbal practices among a group of people.
In this example, each speaker takes a stance with the words that they say, but only Speaker A explicitly demonstrates their stance.
For instance, an evidentialist account of knowledge can be an instance of contextualism if it's held that strength of justification is a contextually varying matter.
Ōno's lexical law, or simply Ōno's law, is a statistical law for the varying rate that four word classes that appear in the lexicon of classical Japanese literary works.
On this basis, the analysis of the emergence, diffusion and transformation of new words, and the publication of dictionaries of neologisms have been made possible.
Taylor explain, "Ethnography of communication conceptualizes communication as a continuous flow of information, rather than as a segmented exchange of messages." According to Deborah Cameron, EOC can be thought of as the application of ethnographic methods to the communication patterns of a group.
Many linguistic anthropologists have come to understand that language and culture are not separate entities, but are in fact processes that work hand in hand.
He founded five international journals: Poetics, Text (now called Text & Talk), Discourse & Society, Discourse Studies, Discourse & Communication, of which he still edits the last three.
a doctor has the epistemic authority to answer medical questions), while deontic stance is the expression of relative strength compared to another interactant to make decisions, such as requesting or requiring that someone performs a certain task.
Discourse Processes is a bimonthly peer-reviewed multidisciplinary academic journal covering the study of discourse from the perspective of sociology, psychology, and other disciplines.
Since its inception the area of study has had a significant impact on the exploration of intercultural discourse structures that extend beyond the target language's native forms of discourse organization.
History of Poetics Western Poetics Generally speaking, poetics in the Western tradition emerged out of Ancient Greece.
Guidelines for doing research with data from Google Ngram have been proposed that try to address some of the issues discussed above.
He credits Luo for giving him a diachronic perspective and insights into a non-Indo-European language family.
Discourse analysis There is more than one type of discourse analysis, and the definition of "discourse" shifts slightly between types.
If the surplus is actively entered into the other's world, or the view from outside oneself is likewise engaged, the potential for new understanding comes into existence.
So, for example, if you've just seen a noun followed by a verb, the next item may be very likely a preposition, article, or noun, but much less likely another verb.
See also Lexical Markup Framework Machine-readable dictionary Synonym Ring Taxonomy References External links Official website "Malayalam WordNet".
DARPA would propose specific quantifiable and testable score targets on benchmarks, and teams being funded would attempt to reach the score targets.
This convinced many in the field that part-of-speech tagging could usefully be separated from the other levels of processing; this, in turn, simplified the theory and practice of computerized language analysis and encouraged researchers to find ways to separate other pieces as well.
Obviously, the semantic modification is being introduced through persuasive definition in definition premise.
And the note would be later cited by Adam Liptak in a New York Times article on statutory construction.
The reverse is seen within the next example: Student B: When students (in Section A) know the answer, they immediately respond.
The story behind this peculiar piece of jewelry goes back to the early 60s when I was assembling the notorious Brown Corpus and others were using computers to make concordances of William Butler Yeats and other poets.
Foucault clarified this shift from epistemes to dispositifs in “The Confession of the Flesh” 1977 interview, when asked about the meaning of the "dispositif" in his first study on sexuality.
A data imaginary is a particular framing of data that defines what data are and what can be done with them.
The character of Makar Devushkin constructs his epistolary discourse around the imagined, but not actually present, rejoinders of an other voice.
In turn, the cultural perception of the medical gaze was the doctor’s near-mystical capability to discover hidden truth.
Contributions to linguistics Hasan worked in her career of more than 50 years in linguistics around a number of central concerns, but all have set out from a basic conviction concerning the "continuity from the living of life right down to the morpheme".
She previously worked as a professor and Chair of Cultural Studies at the University of Bradford in West Yorkshire.
Etymology The term treebank was coined by linguist Geoffrey Leech in the 1980s, by analogy to other repositories such as a seedbank or bloodbank.
of the Workshop on Balto-Slavic Natural Language Processing associated with the International Conference RANLP, Hissar, Bulgaria.
Wetherell, Margaret (2001), "Editor's introduction, Part three: minds, selves and sense making", in Wetherell, Margaret; Taylor, Stephanie; Yates, Simeon J.
(eds.), Discourse theory and practice: a reader, D843 Course: Discourse Analysis, London Thousand Oaks California: SAGE in association with the Open University, pp.
The aim of the project is according to pages is "producing a web corpus of Buddhist texts for using in multilingual lexicography.
In patients with right hemisphere lesions, they are characterized as monotonous and as lacking variety in their tone and expression.
In such theories, language plays no role in bringing about the existence of the thing to be understood or expressed.
Lexicographers have often failed to account for semantic prosody when defining a word, although with the recent development and increasing use of computers, the field of corpus linguistics is now being combined with that of lexicography.
The EuroWordNet project has produced WordNets for several European languages and linked them together; these are not freely available however.
As Milstein writes, “discourses not only serve to structure, oppress, and transform human lives, but so, too, do discourses serve to symbolically and materially construct, constrain, and change the more than human world”.
SKAD is well established within German-speaking discourse studies, though interest has recently been increasing in the English-speaking world and beyond.
The research focus of the project was on the relationship between populist discourse and democracy and it involved a variety of research and dissemination activities as well as the creation of an international Observatory of populist discourse.
See also Forvo Common Voice Tatoeba Spreadthesign (sign languages project) References External links Official website ""Lingua Libre", émission spéciale Francophonie".
Each character, and each implied voice in a character's internal dialogue, is an other consciousness that never becomes merely an object for the author or any other character or voice.
(2015) Applying Multi-dimensional Analysis to a Russian Webcorpus: Searching for Evidence of Genres, in Proc.
A waiter, for example, would not launch into a detailed description of a particular dish that a customer is inquiring about, only to end the discourse by then informing the customer that the dish is not available.
Michael Halliday, the founder of systemic functional linguistics, calls these three functions the ideational, interpersonal, and textual.
A comparable corpus is built from non-sentence-aligned and untranslated bilingual documents, but the documents are topic-aligned.
Specialised software is used to arrange key words in context from a corpus of several million words of naturally occurring text.
Hebrew The number of distinct hapax legomena in the Hebrew Bible is 1,480 (out of a total of 8,679 distinct words used).
Notable among these are the decades long periodic reviews of the 25 years of annual pan-Chinese rosters since 2000 and compilation of new word databases (LIVAC Annual Pan-Chinese New Word Rosters).
She found that while students consistently used formal forms of Japanese when talking to professors, professors would often switch between the formal and informal forms depending on the topic of conversation (Masuda 2016).
Law and corpus linguistics (LCL) gained greater legitimacy in July 2011 with the first judicial opinion in American history utilizing corpus linguistics to determine the meaning of a legal text: In re the Adoption of Baby E.Z.
Terms such as “deterrence,” “service for freedom,” or “war-readiness” are exposed as ideologically charged.
Publications Discourse Analysis Books Initiation aux méthodes de l’analyse du discours, Paris, Hachette, 1976 (Spanish translation : Buenos Aires, Hachette, 1980).
"Amplification as a grammatical prosody: attitudinal modification in the nominal group." Advances in Discourse Processes 57.
Researchers at smaller companies and in universities risk being frozen out of the process almost entirely." The LDC provided a central location for creating and dispensing such data.
"Five Trends in Presidential Rhetoric: An Analysis of Rhetoric from George Washington to Bill Clinton" (PDF).
"Naming women’s workplace skills’." Pink Collar Blues: Work, Gender and Technology, Melbourne University Press.1993.
'Symbolic articulation' is the means by which a process of "second-order semiosis" emerges, that is the process by which "one order of meaning acts as metaphor for a second order of meaning”.
Workman found the following numbers of hapax legomena in each Pauline Epistle: At first glance, the last three totals (for the Pastoral Epistles) are not out of line with the others.
Usage Commas delimit user-entered search terms, where each comma-separated term is searched in the database as an n-gram (for example, "nursery school" is a 2-gram or bigram).
The history of ideas marks points of discontinuity between broadly defined modes of knowledge, but those existing modes of knowledge are not discrete structures among the complex relations of historical discourse.
White's approach to appraisal regionalised the concept into three interacting domains: 'attitude', 'engagement' and 'graduation'.
In recent years, linguists have used corpus linguistics and concordancing software to find such hidden associations.
Mayaffre Damon with Iezzi Stella and Misuraca Michelangelo (2020) Text Analytics : Advances and Challenges.
Collapsing sequences can be used in other situations as well, such as when someone joins a discussion already in progress: Hi, John.
This is a landmark study that focuses on curing ways, everyday speaking, puberty rites, and gathering house speech-making.
His research has tackled a great diversity of corpora, apart from ordinary conversation: advertising, handbooks, literature, newspapers, politics, philosophy, religion, the Internet...
But he said that "to the extent that I favoured any one angle, it was the social: language as the creature and creator of human society".
There are two main types of cohesion: grammatical cohesion: based on structural content lexical cohesion: based on lexical content and background knowledge.
The criteria for assessing such modifications are: transparency of modification, coherence with usage, consequences of modification, authority of modifying party, alternative meanings.
Paul Anthony Chilton (born 21 October 1944) is a British cognitive linguist and discourse analyst known for his work on conceptual metaphor, cognitive stylistics, and political discourse.
The contents are thus deliberately repetitive in most cases, represented by textual samples drawn from editorials, local and international news, cross-Taiwan Strait news, as well as news on finance, sports and entertainment.
Multimodality and genre: A foundation for the systematic analysis of multimodal documents (Springer, 2008).
Connecting the two points for the noun reveals a monotonically decreasing line, while connecting the two points for any of the other word classes results in a monotonically increasing line.
The title of her thesis was 'A Linguistic Study of Contrasting Features in the Style of Two Contemporary English Prose Writers'.
The prefix "exo" means "outside", and the persons or events referred to in this manner are never identified by the writer.
The trend promises to give one and all access to read and contribute to cutting edge scientific criticism and debate." NB: proper noun of 'Internet' repaired from the error 'internet'.
Here, the theme—the grammatical point of departure—is in bold text; it announces at the start to the listener or reader what the message will be about—the writer's or speaker's angle ("I'm going to tell you what they need for breakfast").
This word appears nowhere else in either Punjabi or Persian literature, and is therefore considered to be valuable in deducing the currently disputed authenticity of the Dasam Granth.
The recordings are also reused in Natural Language Processing projects, for example to drive Mozilla's DeepSpeech speech recognition engines.
In subsequent writings, he makes it clear that several épistémès may co-exist and interact at the same time, being parts of various power-knowledge systems.
Corpus-based Studies in Language Use, Language Learning, and Language Documentation., Edited by John Newman, Harald Baayen and Sally Rice.
Despite their perceptual differences of diagnosis, each medical report would be "true", because each doctor diagnosed according to a generally accepted way of thinking (an episteme) in which their respective forms of organised medical knowledge were considered factual.
By reintroducing methodological rigor to the heart of discourse analysis, and by combining bottom-up qualitative approach with AI supported statistical processing of texts, Damon Mayaffre has helped revive French Discourse Analysis whose principles and theories stem from Post-structuralism.
Composition of the corpus In the 10th version of the corpus, available for searching from 20 October 2020, 35% consists of fiction.
In sociology, discourse is defined as "any practice (found in a wide range of forms) by which individuals imbue reality with meaning".
In other approaches in linguistics (including linguistic anthropology, sociolinguistics, corpus linguistics), alternative terms such as evaluation or stance are preferred.
Keller combines this approach with Michel Foucault's discourse theory, which is responsible for the prominent role of discourse concepts in social science and inspired several approaches to discourse analysis in other scientific disciplines.
A full account of epistêmê is given in Posterior Analytics, where Aristotle argues that knowledge of necessary, rather than contingent, truths regarding causation is foundational for episteme.
Career Wetherell worked for 23 years at the Open University, UK from which she retired as Emeritus Professor in 2011.
The traditional method of performing collocation extraction is to find a formula based on the statistical quantities of those words to calculate a score associated to every word pairs.
Goals of the project The project has the status of an educational and scientific one, and many tasks of computational linguistics are solved by independent researchers and research groups with the materials obtained by GICR.
Richardson, eds.), London & New York: Longman, 1994 Télé-textes (with Elspeth Broady) (1995) Language and Masculinity (with S.
A discourse topic is the central participant or idea of a stretch of connected discourse or dialogue.
The influence of ICAME on the field has also be laid out in Facchinetti's history, Corpus Linguistics Twenty-five Years On.
Dating Texts in the corpus are dated by the year of writing, or by the latest year in which a work could have been written; translated texts are dated by the year the translation was produced.
Clear counter-examples include words with positive connotations that regularly co-occur with negative words, for example ease, soothe, tackle.
van Dijk was a professor of discourse studies at the University of Amsterdam from 1968 until 2004, and since 1999 he has taught at the Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona.
Discourse and language transformations are ascribed to progress or the need to develop new or more "accurate" words to describe discoveries, understandings, or areas of interest.
Open and closed discourse operate along a continuum where absolute closure and complete openness are theoretically untenable due to noise in the channel.
Semantic prosody, also discourse prosody, describes the way in which certain seemingly neutral words can be perceived with positive or negative associations through frequent occurrences with particular collocations.
The current editors of the ICAME Journal are Merja Kytö and Anna-Brita Stenström.I am wearing a tie clip in the shape of a monkey wrench...
In the 1970s, Foucault’s research shifted from archaeological analysis to genealogical investigations.
The corpus includes rich text materials from the blogosphere, social networks, major news sources and literary magazines.
First published on May 27, 2025, it is written by the conflict researcher Leo Ensel, whose focus is on the Post-Soviet space and Central/Eastern Europe.
More generally, will the texts used for the study Sanskrit, Chinese and Tibetan." References Om databasen på UiOs nettsider Bibliotheca Polyglotta
In order to avoid the criticisms from the ALPAC report, they needed a way to demonstrate objective progress, which led to the benchmark-oriented methodology.
Plot an additional point corresponding to any of the other seven classic works on each line of the word classes.
In a 2011 article for the journal Post Script, Andrew Scahill wrote about the power of children in rhetoric to create an untenable stance for an opposing viewpoint.
Gumperz Adam Kendon Robin Lakoff Stephen Levinson Deborah Tannen Andrew Pawley Ron Scollon See also Code-switching Conversation analysis Ethnography of communication Mediated discourse analysis Pragmatics Schismogenesis in sociolinguistics sociolinguistics == References ==
He then worked in the phonetics department of University College London before moving to the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS), where he became Professor of General Linguistics, a position he held until his retirement in 1956.
And writing for The Atlantic, Ben Zimmer took note of this new trend, referring to corpus linguistics in the courts as "Like Lexis on Steroids".
Bakhtin described the open-ended dialogue as "the single adequate form for verbally expressing authentic human life".
Michael Lewis, in his book The New New Thing, published in 1999, noted that "When a computer programmer answers a question, he often begins with the word 'so.'" Microsoft employees have long argued that the "so" boom began with them.
Philologies Text corpora are also used in the study of historical documents, for example in attempts to decipher ancient scripts, or in Biblical scholarship.
For instance, the grammatical system of 'mood' is considered to be centrally related to the expression of interpersonal meanings, 'process type' to the expression of experiential meanings, and 'theme' to the expression of textual meanings.
Particularly concerning is the rhetoric of there being “no alternative” in light of the so-called “Russian threat.” The text illustrates how language is strategically used to present war as both necessary and morally justified—a gradual shift in values with far-reaching consequences.
He has worked at Kyoto University, the USC Information Sciences Institute, the German National Research Center for Information Technology, Saarland University, and the University of Stirling.
Among the most important Renaissance works on poetics are Marco Girolamo Vida's De Arte Poetica (1527) and Gian Giorgio Trissino's La Poetica (1529, expanded edition 1563).
As such, small alignment errors or minor discrepancies that would cause a translation memory to fail are of no importance.
Among Firth's students, the so-called neo-Firthians were exemplified by Michael Halliday, who was Professor of General Linguistics in the University of London from 1965 until 1971.
According to Denick, social imaginaries enable social practices by providing ways to understand the world.
See also Data analysis Discourse analysis Collocation Co-occurrence Logos Pathos Ethos Performative utterance References External links University staff page
Religious references and historical memory are also instrumentalized to legitimize military actions.
if we say that linguistic structure "reflects" social structure, we are really assigning to language a role that is too passive ...
The perlocutionary effect of an utterance is contrasted with the locutionary act, which is the act of producing the utterance (articulating/speaking), and with the illocutionary force, which does not depend on the utterance's effect on the interlocutor.
"Unequal egalitarianism: a preliminary study of discourses concerning gender and employment opportunities".
This device is particularly used when answering questions although the questioner may also use the device.
In corpus linguistics, treebanks are used to study syntactic phenomena (for example, diachronic corpora can be used to study the time course of syntactic change).
when interpreting video diaries produced by children (Iivari et al., 2014), studying popular media as a pervasive educative force (Wohlwend & Medina, 2012), and building an information infrastructure in a city (Halkola et al., 2012), service interaction (Izadi, 2017, 2020).
Michael Halliday introduced the term using a cartographic hierarchy of stratification whereby three viewpoints were identified: "from above" (from a higher stratum) "from roundabout" (from its own stratum, its own primary location) "from below"(from a lower stratum) Halliday's colleague, C.
The notion is often confused with the related notion of sentence-level topic/theme, which is frequently defined as "what the sentence is about".
Example For example, the phrase "Don't do that!", a locutionary act with distinct phonetic, syntactic and semantic features, which corresponds to meaning, is an utterance serving as warning to the listener to not do the thing they are currently doing or about to do.
In linguistics and the philosophy of language, a locutionary act is the performance of an utterance, and is one of the types of force, in addition to illocutionary act and perlocutionary act, typically cited in Speech Act Theory.
The concept of open and closed discourse is associated with the overlay of open and closed discourse communities and open and closed communication events.
Positive redressive action *S satisfies a wide range of H's desires not necessarily related to the face-threatening act.
The overview of existing TenTen corpora can be found at https://www.sketchengine.co.uk/documentation/tenten-corpora/ Timestamped JSI web corpora – web corpora of news articles crawled from a list of RSS feeds.
Unsupervised tagging techniques use an untagged corpus for their training data and produce the tagset by induction.
The Yale Law Journal Forum published Corpus Linguistics & Original Public Meaning: A New Tool to Make Originalism More Empirical.
He taught the theory at the Summer Institute of Linguistics in Norman, Oklahoma, in the summers of 1956 and 1957 and entered the University of Pennsylvania to study with Harris in the interim year.
The sociology of knowledge approach to discourse (SKAD) is a social science research programme for studying discourse developed by Reiner Keller in order to analyze knowledge relationships and conditions in society.
Discursive dominance or discursive power is the ultimate emergence of one discourse as dominant among competing ones in their struggle for dominance.
Collocation extraction is the task of using a computer to extract collocations automatically from a corpus.
Brown and Levinson outline various cases in which one might use the bald on-record strategy, including: Situations and examples Situations with no threat minimization Urgency or desperation Watch out!
The Bibliotheca Polyglotta is a Norwegian database for Multilingualism project, lingua franca and science per global history at the University of Oslo.
Chilton developed a three-dimensional model to analyze semantic structure in natural languages, based on spatial cognition and using a formalism derived from vector geometry.
Burke (1939; reprinted in 1941 and 1981) identified four tropes as specific to Hitler's rhetoric: inborn dignity, projection device, symbolic rebirth, and commercial use.
This is in contrast with "The guests need an omelette for breakfast," which leaves open the possibility that they also need other things for breakfast.
A perlocutionary act (or perlocutionary effect) is the effect of an utterance on an interlocutor (listener).
Within the area of corpus linguistics, collocation is defined as a sequence of words or terms which co-occur more often than would be expected by chance.
See also Applied linguistics Contrastive linguistics Communication accommodation theory Linguistic relativity Second language acquisition == References ==
Substitution A word is not omitted, as in ellipsis, but is substituted for another, more general word.
In 2019 it came to light that Canadian governments of the 21st century have been relative lightweights in the Alliance.
In the construct of constitutional monarchy and responsible government, the advice tendered is typically binding, meaning the monarch reigns but does not rule, with the Cabinet ruling "in trust" for the monarch.
Association of Parents, Justice Jean Beetz found that section 17 was so similar to section 133 of the Constitution Act, 1867 (section 17 was based on section 133) that section 17 would not represent any change in regard to rights that had belonged under section 133.
The position is a Governor in Council appointment made on the advice of the prime minister of Canada.
Regarding housing, nearly all sponsors reported having sufficient capacity in their homes to accommodate their partners.
However, the Superintendent's term can be renewed by the Governor in Council following those five years.
The person who is unable to pay his obligation is considered to be an insolvent person under the BIA.
Canada has been a member of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) since its inception in 1949.
Background John Hogan became Premier of Newfoundland and Labrador after winning the leadership election following the resignation of Andrew Furey.
The Assistant Deputy Attorney General may appoint a lawyer not employed by the Ministry of Attorney General as a special prosecutor, if he or she "considers it is in the public interest".
From 1980 to 1984 there was no cabinet title but under the authority of the minister of supply and services before reappearing in 1984.
Another relevant treaty is the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families (1990), which, although not ratified by Canada, sets international standards on the protection of the rights of migrant workers and the importance of family reunification.
any person, other than an officer, who is enrolled in, or who pursuant to law is attached or seconded otherwise than as an officer to, the Canadian Forces..." Thus, an NCM is any member who is not a commissioned officer or officer cadet.
Following a fellowship in traumatology, in Basel, Switzerland, Oxford, and Los Angeles, he began practice at the Vancouver General Hospital.
These general principles and themes, insofar as they are relevant to the instant appeals, may be summarized as follows: "Canadian maritime law" as defined in s.
Bennett Receiver General of Canada 29 June 1926 – 25 September 1926: The Minister of Finance (Ex officio) 29 June 1926 – 13 July 1926: Sir Henry Lumley Drayton (acting) 13 July 1926 – 25 September 1926: R.
As of November 2020, Kingsley serves as the chairman of the Executive Advisory Committee for Dominion Voting Systems.
The Superintendent of Bankruptcy is a Canadian government official who heads the Office of the Superintendent of Bankruptcy, a regulatory agency operating under the Ministry of Innovation, Science and Economic Development, and exercices independent statutory and quasi‑judicial powers.
He was educated at the Académie De La Salle and went on to earn a BCom and a master's degree in Hospital Administration from the University of Ottawa.
Donahue, Alicia Elliott, Samra Habib, Catherine Hernandez, Shawn Hitchins, Ben Lewis, Téa Mutonji, Owen Pallett, Casey Plett, Heath V.
The office was established upon Confederation (1 July 1867) by Order-in-Council, and was given statutory basis later that year on December 21, through Statute 31 Victoria, c.
The EIA is owned by Transport Canada, leased by Edmonton Airports, and part of the National Airports System.
Mahon President of Athabasca University: Frits Pannekoek President of Mount Royal University: David Docherty President of Grant MacEwan University: David W.
The authority is governed by a 15-member board of directors appointed to represent the various municipalities and the Government of Canada (2 members).
used the Regime to manufacture and export two shipments of a patented antiretroviral medication to Rwanda.
The United Nations notes that funding under these two programs supported many initiatives, with those most likely to be supported by the Canada Fund for Africa being $220 million on polio and HIV, and $150 million on humanitarian food aid and water resources.
Instead, Borden learned of the creation of the Acting Sub-Militia Council via the press and in response Borden recalled Hughes back to Canada.
These municipalities include the cities of Edmonton (six members), Leduc (one member), Leduc County (one member), Parkland County (one member), Strathcona County (one member) and Sturgeon County (one member).
Dyane Adam, (born 1953 in Casselman, Ontario) was the Canadian Official Languages Commissioner from 1999 to 2006.
Many times, our nations have been involved in litigation that ends up at the Supreme Court." == References ==
It has no legal standing but is used to dictate ceremonial protocol at events of a provincial nature.
Pre-Confederation colonies of Lower Canada, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Upper Canada and the Province of Canada each had this post.
The North Atlantic triangle is a theoretical construct for studying the history of Canadian foreign policy.
In 2020, the child poverty rate was 3% for those living in couple families, compared with 16.9% for those in female lone-parent families.
At a later date, the Court releases its opinion on the reference, in the form of a detailed written judgment.
The traditional languages of the people are Halq'eméylem, hən̓q̓əmin̓əm̓, and Hul’q’umi’num.’ Yeqwyeqwí:ws is the proper Halq’eméylem spelling of Yakweakwioose.
Membership changes House of Commons Senate Party standings Members of the House of Commons Members of the Senate See also 2025 Speech from the Throne Official Opposition Shadow Cabinet of the 45th Parliament of Canada Women in the 45th Canadian Parliament Notes == References ==
Barlow chairs the board of Washington-based Food & Water Watch, serves on the Board of Advisors to the Global Alliance on the Rights of Nature, was a founding member of the San Francisco–based International Forum on Globalization, and was a Councillor with the Hamburg-based World Future Council.
Of the non-mandatory affiliates, CKWS-DT Kingston and CHEX-DT Peterborough, Ontario converted in 2013, while CFTK-TV Terrace and CJDC-TV Dawson Creek, British Columbia has yet to convert; these stations has since changed its affiliations to other networks.
December 11 – Conservative MP Michael Ma for Markham—Unionville crosses the floor to the Liberal Party.
The session was opened personally by Charles III, King of Canada, on May 27, 2025, during his first royal visit to Canada as King.
The Department of National Defence determined the facilities did not meet their needs but Corrections Canada, the Canada Revenue Agency and the Canada Border Services Agency were indicated as possible future tenants.
The conference delegates discussed the Arctic Ocean, climate change, the protection of the marine environment, maritime safety, and division of emergency responsibilities if new shipping routes are opened.
The position was first introduced in 1967 to help younger politicians gain experience for future ministerial roles.
In 2006, the Harper government announced several enhanced border security measures, including a plan to equip security personnel with weapons in order to be able to act effectively against suspects, including those carrying firearms, near the border (on either side).
This differs from the United States, where the executive branch is referred to as an administration and the federal government encompasses executive, legislative, and judicial powers, similar to the Canadian Crown.
Skowkale First Nation or Skowkale Band (Halkomelem: Sqʼewqéyl) is a band government of the Sto:lo people located in the Upper Fraser Valley region, near Sardis, part of Chilliwack, British Columbia, Canada.
Measurement Canada (French: Mesures Canada) is a special operating agency of the Government of Canada's Innovation, Science and Economic Development portfolio, in the Small Business, Tourism and Marketplace Services sector.
On April 15, 2013, the Non-Public Property Board approved a second name change for the organization from CFPFSS to Canadian Forces Morale and Welfare Services.
History Prior to Unification of the Canadian Forces, virtually all Non-Public Property (NPP) activities were controlled and managed at the local level.
my experience has been that almost no one in the world will die this year because of the cost or the lack of availability of AIDS medicine.
When Canada became a Dominion in 1867, however, a separate Canadian Privy Council was established to advise the Canadian governor general on the exercise of the Crown prerogative in Canada, although constitutionally the viceroy remained an agent of the British government at Whitehall.
Broadbent had called for a resolution raising concern "for the more than one million Canadian children living in poverty." By 2000, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, and Finland had almost abolished child poverty.
Prior to the Committee's establishment, war financing was the responsibility of the Department of Finance.
The court addressed whether a requirement that all licensed drivers be photographed unconstitutionally violated the Hutterites' right to freedom of religion.
Prime Minister One of the main duties of the Crown is to ensure that a democratic government is always in place, which includes the appointment of a prime minister, who heads the Cabinet and directs the activities of the government.
It was formed after the 7th Canadian Parliament was dissolved, and lost the 8th Canadian federal election, so it never faced a parliament.
In June 2018, the Supreme Court of Canada found that the tribunal's determination that the Indian Act did not violate the Canadian Human Rights Act was reasonable due to judicial deference.
The completion of a new headquarters building on Ogilvie Road led the CSE to vacate the building by 2016.
At the federal level, the Australian constitution provides only for the appointment of "ministers of state".
It governed Canada from 10 October 1911 to 12 October 1917, including only the 12th Canadian Parliament.
2023 shuffle After a difficult parliamentary term, Trudeau announced the third major re-shuffle of his ministry and the first re-shuffle since the 2021 election, with the exception of ministers Tassi and Jaczek swapping roles in 2022.
In response to claims of such a bias at the similar Office of International Religious Freedom in the United States, Harper stated that Canada is "a very different country".
The intelligence commissioner heads the Office of the Intelligence Commissioner of Canada (French: Bureau du commissaire au renseignement), the agency which supports the work of the commissioner.
In September 2006, after her term had been extended by several months, it was announced that Graham Fraser would replace her.
While the speaker is an officer of the Senate, the speaker as a senator also remains a representative of the province or territory from which they were appointed.
As the King's representative, the governor general attends Parliament to deliver the speech from the throne, although this can and has been done by the sovereign themselves or another representative.
It was the official march of the Royal Canadian Air Force until the unification of the Canadian Armed Forces in 1968.
In British Columbia, appointments of special prosecutors are governed by Section 7 "Special prosecutors" of the Crown Counsel Act, Chapter 87.
The Fund was established by the Canada Fund for Africa Act in 2002 to fulfill Canada's obligations under the New Africa Initiative created be the Organization of African Unity.
CBC Arts (French: Radio-Canada Arts) is the division of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation that creates and curates written articles, short documentaries, non-fiction series and interactive projects that represent the excellence of Canada's diverse artistic communities.
Since the Letters Patent, 1947, were signed by King George VI, the governor general of Canada—presently Mary Simon—executes most of the duties of the sovereign, including in their role as commander-in-chief.
The Conservative government's move was seen by many as motivated by a desire to destroy the Liberal party and cripple all other parties, not by concern over taxpayer dollars.
Overview Canada's federal political parties receive the most significant portion of public funding at election times that is based on what they have spent through electoral expense reimbursements.
In 2015, the federal rural riding of Churchill—Keewatinook Aski in Manitoba—which is home to many First Nations—had the highest child poverty rate in Canada in 2015 with about 64.2% living in poverty, according to the a Campaign2000 2018 riding-by- riding analysis.
"Finland, Sweden, Iceland left out: The Kingdom of Denmark stands by its decision to invite only five of the eight Arctic nations to an international meeting next week in Ilulissat, Greenland".
Fletcher Commanding Officer, HMCS Nonsuch Commanding Officer, 1 Canadian Mechanized Brigade Group Commanding Officer, 1 Area Support Group Commanding Officer, 41 Canadian Brigade Group Commanding Officer, 4 Wing Sources Government of Alberta: Order of Precedence == References ==
Reports Special Report on Foreign Interference in Canada's Democratic Processes and Institutions In 2024 NSCIOP released a report on foreign interference in Canada's elections and society from September 2018 to 2024.
Edmonton Airports, officially the Edmonton Regional Airports Authority, is an airport authority responsible for the management and operation of two airports in the Edmonton area.
Hughes after refusing to compromise subsequently berated Borden in a letter, after which point Hughes was forced to resign his ministerial post.
In 1990, he was made an Officer of the Order of Canada for "his ability to work with political parties, candidates, the media and the general public helped to foster the atmosphere of confidence now associated with the entire Canadian electoral system".
CBC Arts has received considerable acclaim, winning multiple Canadian Screen Awards including for best talk show (The Filmmakers), non-fiction webseries (Canada's a Drag) and interactive production (Super Queeroes and The 2010s: The Decade Canadian Artists Stopped Saying Sorry).
Some other public sector workers, such as police officers and firefighters, had been declared exempt on the grounds that they were essential workers.
The reason given for the appointments of Emerson and Fortier was that the Conservatives were completely shut out of the three most populous cities in Canada – Montreal, Toronto, and Vancouver.
The need for legal uniformity is particularly pressing in the area of tortious liability for collisions and other accidents that occur in the course of navigation...
Info Source is a Government of Canada agency repository of information about or collected by the Canadian government.
The Group is currently chaired by Member of Parliament Ali Ehsassi and the vice-chairs are as follows: Garnett Genuis, MP (Conservative); Ruby Sahota, MP (Liberal); and Cheryl Hardcastle, MP (NDP).
List of Members of the Legislative Assembly References External links Election Results and Dates 1876 - 1905 from Saskatchewan Archives
Also, the Ontario Parole Board can also authorize the re-committal of parolees to custody, lift one's parole suspension, or cancel a temporary absence it has granted.
First proposed by the historian John Bartlet Brebner, it seeks to explain the importance of United Kingdom–United States relations to Canada's security, and even survival, during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
Analogues In the British Army, Royal Marines and Royal Air Force (and in the armies and air forces of many other Commonwealth countries), the equivalent term is "other rank" (OR); in the Royal Navy and other Commonwealth navies, the term is usually "rating" or "rate".
She instead decided to resign altogether from his Cabinet, saying that "to be effective, a Minister must speak on behalf of the Prime Minister and with his full confidence.
On February 23, 1990 the position was merged into that of Minister of Industry, Science and Technology.
It was inspired by the success of a similar parliamentary group in the United Kingdom and grew out of the Save Darfur Coalition initiated in 2006.
The Minister of Science and Sport was a position in the Canadian government occupied by Kirsty Duncan from July 19, 2018, to November 21, 2019.
Meanwhile, President Hu Jintao criticized Canada for making the Dalai Lama an honorary citizen and to make several meetings with him.
Shapiro was also criticized by former NDP leader Ed Broadbent for "extraordinarily serious credibility problems".
In an official white paper on China's Arctic Policy from 2018, China claimed to be a "Near-Arctic State", and thus has clear "economic interests" and maritime claims, stating that there is an incentive to build a so-called 'Polar Silk Road'.
Fundamental Freedoms: The Charter of Rights and Freedoms Archived 2012-08-09 at the Wayback Machine - Charter of Rights website with video, audio and the Charter in over 20 languages
Blue Covenant: The Global Water Crisis and the Fight for the Right to Water – McClelland & Stewart, Toronto (October 16, 2007) ISBN 978-0-7710-1072-9.
A bankrupt must also remit to the trustee the amount of his income that is determined to be surplus to his needs, for the benefit of the estate.
Period applicable until discharge The bankrupt may apply to court at any time for discharge from bankruptcy (provided he has fulfilled his duties), and the court may grant it, either fully or conditionally.
The speaker of the Senate holds no similar role, as the Senate's Standing Committee on Internal Economy, Budgets, and Administration is chaired by another senator.
Requests made under the Access to Information Act and the Privacy Act must be sent to the Access to Information and Privacy Coordinator at the institution which holds the information.
The group has recently been involved with the W2I Project run by the Montreal Institute for Genocide and Human Rights Studies.
A special operating agency (SOA) is a designation given to a government organization within a department or agency of the Government of Canada, or a provincial government, that has some management flexibility, independence, and separate accountability.
Humanist Canada and the Centre for Inquiry Canada (CFIC) noted that no secular organizations were consulted about the creation of the office, nor were they invited to the official announcement of the new ambassador.
The Federal Court can also issue and enforce decisions made by the tribunal if violations continue and imprison an offender for contempt of court if a decision continues to be disregarded.
In 1971, 6 former municipalities had their own parks & recreation boards or recreation commissions: East Kildonan, Fort Garry, St.
Given the small size of Canada's military, most contributions to NATO were political but, during NATO's 1999 Kosovo War, Canadian CF-18 jets were involved in the bombing of Yugoslavia.
LeBel blamed the COVID-19 pandemic for altering the government's timeline and could not commit to providing an alternate date for the referendum, effectively ending discussions about electoral reform in Quebec.
It governed Canada from 16 June 1891 to 24 November 1892, including only a year and a half in the middle of the 7th Canadian Parliament.
Yakweakwioose First Nation or Yakweakwioose Band (Halkomelem: Yeqwyeqwí꞉ws) is a band government of the Sto:lo people located in the Upper Fraser Valley region at Sardis, near Chilliwack, British Columbia, Canada.
After she had led a campaign to preserve bilingualism at York University and Montfort Hospital, then-Prime Minister Jean Chrétien appointed her Official Languages Commissioner.
Chiefs of the Six Nations of the Grand River expressed to Queen Elizabeth II their concerns about Chief Justice Richard Wagner serving as administrator after Julie Payette resigned from the office of governor general in January 2021.
The commissioner is accountable to the Parliament of Canada through the prime minister, who receives an annual report from the commissioner and tables it in the House of Commons.
"Russian Minister of Foreign Affairs Sergey Lavrov Attends the Arctic Ocean Conference, Ilulissat" (Press release).
CANALERT was one of the names for the Government of Canada's series of initiatives between 2003–2009 to develop an all-channel national public alerting system.
Thomas University and Université de Moncton Presidents of the universities in New Brunswick in the same order of precedence as the Chancellors External links Table of Precedence for New Brunswick
Guyana - Agro-processing, Forestry and Wood Products, Other Manufacturing and Tourism Jamaica - Tourism, Agriculture and Agro-Industry.
Smaller openings, called desk openings, do not require the removal of senators' desks, as guests are limited to the justices of the supreme court, invitees of the governor general and prime minister, and the deans of the diplomatic corps.
This triangle was invisible to Americans or Britons, for whom Canada was a side issue at best, but it was vital to Canada.
See also Emergency Public Warning System Alert Ready References External links Industry Canada's public alerting website http://alerts.pelmorex.com/en/ Archived 2011-06-02 at the Wayback Machine
Authority The OPB can grant, deny, revoke, and suspend parole under the Ministry of Correctional Services Act.
Trudeau carried out four major cabinet shuffles: one in 2018, one in 2021, one in 2023, and another in 2024.
In the absence or incapacity of the chief justice, the role of administrator falls on the senior puisne justice of the Supreme Court.
The Gill Deacon Show was cancelled after just seven months, and replaced with another talk show, Steven and Chris from 2008 to 2015 (Steven and Chris is also shown on the Live Well Network in the United States); Living was cancelled in August 2009.
Previously its Vice-Chairperson, Jennifer Khurana was the Tribunal's acting Chairperson from September 2, 2021 until March 24, 2022.
The Regime was established in 2004 by An Act to amend the Patent Act and the Food and Drugs Act, also known as the "Jean Chrétien Pledge to Africa Act", along with other regulations, in a bill introduced as C-9 in the third session of the 37th Canadian Parliament.
The Office of Religious Freedom was an agency of Global Affairs Canada that was established by the Government of Canada on 19 February 2013 to monitor religious persecution and protect freedom of religion internationally.
The viceroy will inspect the guard of honour in front of the legislature before entering the building via the ceremonial entrance.
The act purports to limit parliamentary privilege, however section 12 of the statute, which imposed this restriction, was struck down by the Ontario Superior Court for being unconstitutional in 2022.
Grand Chief Vernon Watchmaker and Chief Germaine Anderson stated, "the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Canada as a 'stand in' does not give us comfort.
However, since elections are monitored and organized by an independent provincial and territorial election commission, a province may legally change its electoral system should its parliament wish to do so.
Saskatchewan was the only jurisdiction to delay a general election by more than a year, due to World War II, but held an election in 1944, one week more than six years after the previous vote.
The Keeping Canada’s Economy & Jobs Growing Act, introduced in October 2011, triggered a phase-out of the per-vote subsidy from 2012-2015.
As such, the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Act contemplates that inquiries and investigations “may be made or caused to be made” by persons the Superintendent appoints, and that those appointees have access to relevant books and electronic data.
Hughes vigorously opposed the creation of the new ministry and when it became clear the new ministry would be created Hughes sought to have Max Aitken appointed to the new post instead of Perley.
2026 January 9 – Liberal MP Chrystia Freeland for University—Rosedale resigns her seat to accept the post of an economic advisor for the Ukrainian government.
The cost of refurbishing the buildings to meet new standards, or Workplace 2.0, will cost about $400 million.
"The Harper government's messaging in the build-up to the Libyan Intervention: was Canada different than its NATO allies?".
In November 2011, he observed the elections in Saint Lucia, as part of a Commonwealth assessment team constituted by the Commonwealth secretary-general.
In the United States Army, Air Force and Marines, the equivalent term is "enlisted rank." In the United States Navy, the proper term is "rate" only; "rating" refers to a sailor's military occupational specialty.
Of even more serious concern were the repeated war scares between Britain and the northern, Union government in the American Civil War, which threatened Canada with another invasion over the Trent Affair, the Alabama Incident, and so on.
Monnin (1997) Deborah McCawley, (1997) Donald Little, (1998) Morris Kaufman (1998; supernumerary since 2010) Laurie Allen, (1998) Douglas Yard, (1998) Donald Bryk, (1999) Frank Aquila (2000) Robert B.
a tribunal has reached a final decision in respect to the matter that is before it in accordance with its enabling statute, that decision cannot be revisited because the tribunal has changed its mind, made an error within jurisdiction or because there has been a change of circumstances.
Subsequently, the Ford government announced that it would not appeal the case to the Supreme Court of Canada, would repeal the law, and introduce regulations in the meantime so non-unionized government workers could benefit as well.
The plaintiffs pointed out the constitutional challenge had been brought before the courts 3 years earlier.
The Pacific Pilotage Authority (French: Administration de pilotage du Pacifique) is a Crown corporation of the Government of Canada that is responsible for pilotage through coastal waters in British Columbia, including the Fraser River.
These include providing confidential advice to public office holders and elected members of Parliament about how to comply with the act and the members' code.
Established in 1990, following the Regional Airports Authorities Act passed by the Legislative Assembly of Alberta, It is a non-profit organisation and, as per the act, has no shareholders and does not pay dividends.
The Office of Religious Freedom was officially opened on 19 February 2013 and Harper announced that Andrew P.
Nova Scotia (1993), the stated application of section 17 is to "Parliament." This wording is an anomaly because technically Parliament is just an institution that enacts statutes.
The Manitoba order of precedence is a nominal and symbolic hierarchy of important positions within the province of Manitoba.
A non-commissioned member (NCM), in the Canadian Armed Forces, is defined in the Queen's Regulations and Orders as: "...
The following is a list of state and official visits made by Canada since the country's Confederation in 1867.
Parliamentary secretaries are formally ministers of state, however they are not responsible for any portfolios and act under the direction of a more senior minister.
List of speakers of the Senate Key: Hays, Housakos, and Furey are the only current living former speakers of the Senate.
It was established by the Pilotage Act in 1972 as a result of recommendations made by the Royal Commission on Pilotage in Canada.
On July 3, 2020, the commissioner announced an investigation into Justin Trudeau and the government's decision to have WE Charity administer the summer student grant program.
List of ministers By minister Note: This is in Order of Precedence, which is established by the chronological order of appointment to the Queen's Privy Council for Canada, then in order of election or appointment to parliament for ministers who joined the Privy Council on the same day.
As all executive power is legally reposed in the Crown, the role of commander-in-chief is the only constitutional means by which decisions are made over the deployment and disposition of the Canadian Armed Forces.
Since 2024, Dominic LeBlanc holds the border security portfolio without it being an official ministry.
Atkinson Police and military Commanding Officer, "K" Division, Royal Canadian Mounted Police: Curtis Zablocki Commander, 3rd Canadian Division: Brigadier-General W.H.
These prolonged separations are not only a bureaucratic problem but also have profound emotional and security implications for the family members left behind, often in risk situations.
Three justices dissented and would have not required the Hutterites to be photographed to be licensed.
She is a founding member and former board chair of The Council of Canadians, a citizens' advocacy organization with members and chapters across Canada.
If a court is permitted to continually revisit or reconsider final orders simply because it has changed its mind or wishes to continue exercising jurisdiction over a matter, there would never be finality to a proceeding, or, as G.
Cameron (2011) Shane Perlmutter (2011) Herbert Rempel (2011) Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly (Obby Khan, ) Archbishop of St.
A decision at this level would mean the outcome would be binding in all provinces and territories across the country.
This underscores an unequal allocation of resources within Immigration Canada, primarily affecting the family reunification processes of parents and grandparents.
Canada's foreign relations with NATO member states See also Foreign relations of Canada Foreign relations of NATO References Further reading Bercuson, David J.
Some assets are protected through bankruptcy exemptions that vary depending on which province or territory the person lives in.
Right to appeal The existence and scope of a right of appeal has often been made the focus of analytical attention in applying the functus officio doctrine.
Specific Public Morale and Welfare programs were delivered through the NPP organization administered by CFPSA, with the cost of implementation reimbursed by the Public to NPP.
Since the events of September 11, 2001, there has been a substantial expansion in the breadth and intensity of Canada's counter-terrorism efforts.
The communication between couples, often reduced to video chats or text messages filled with emoticons to express their love and longing, cannot replace the intimacy and emotional support of being physically together.
The Department of Regional Industrial Expansion (DRIE) was created when Industry, Trade and Commerce was combined with the Department of Regional Economic Expansion (DREE).
Functus officio refers to an officer or agency whose mandate has expired, due to either the arrival of an expiry date or an agency having accomplished the purpose for which it was created.
The Minister of Public Works was a position in the Cabinet of Canada who oversaw the public works portfolio of the federal government.
Hughes while overseas in England responded by establishing an Acting Sub-Militia Council which would provide him greater latitude outside of parliamentary overview.
Schools on reserves lack resources Macdonald and Wilson said that all levels of government were failing to provide Indigenous children with assistance and resources.
Overview The division specialized engineering and construction services to the City of Toronto's internal client divisions such as Toronto Water, Transportation Services and Solid Waste Management Services.
Summary The government of Ontario spent a budget of around CA$163.4 billion in the year 2019, with around CA$72 billion of that being used for salaries and worker compensation.
On 29 October 1997, the City of Winnipeg Act was again amended, providing for a 4-term of office for Mayors and City Councillors, as well as replacing the Board of Commissioners with a chief administrative officer model.
In Canada, a special prosecutor is a lawyer appointed in certain circumstances to ensure the fairness of a prosecution.
Role Certain activities carried out by CSIS and the CSE must be authorized by their ministers, the Minister of Public Safety and Minister of National Defence, respectively.
She was replaced by Dominic LeBlanc, who would temporarily retain his role as Minister of Intergovernmental Affairs, Infrastructure and Communities.
On November 30, 2010, the CBC's senior director of regulatory affairs issued a letter to the CRTC regarding CBC's plans for transitioning to digital.
While political contributions can only be made by Canadian citizens, there is no age restriction in place, which allows political contributions to be made in the name of children to bypass contribution limits.
The Trade Controls Bureau (TCB) authorizes, under the discretion of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the import and export of goods restricted by quotas and/or tariffs.
Government records indicate that one million dollars of the fund was spent on public-private ventures for providing risk capital.
On top of this, however, an additional metropolitan level of government existed as well, holding responsibility for planning major roads, major parks, and major water and sewer systems.
Effective April 21, 2008, the Non-Public Property Board approved a name change for the organization from the Canadian Forces Personnel Support Agency (CFPSA) to the Canadian Forces Personnel and Family Support Services (CFPFSS).
Measurement Canada approves, inspects, and certifies measurement instruments, and investigates and resolves complaints regarding inaccurate measurement.
New Zealand The position titled Parliamentary Under-Secretary is established by the Constitution Act 1986.
The appointment of Bill Blair as the new Minister of Border Security and Organized Crime Reduction was praised by Opposition Immigration Critic Michelle Rempel, in response to an increase of illegal crossings of the Canada–United States border.
The Caribbean Regional Human Resource Development Program for Economic Competitiveness known as (CPEC) for short is a programme funded by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA).
Laws are formed by the passage of bills through Parliament, which are either sponsored by the government or individual members of Parliament.
The systems used included Block Voting, Single transferable voting, Limited voting and a system where each seat was filled through a separate contest.
The reshuffle was labeled by CBC News as Trudeau's re-election kickoff for the 2019 federal election.
In 1969, Treasury Board introduced the concept of delivering Morale and Welfare programs through a combination of Public and NPP resources.
Canada Temperance Federation Imperial reference questions relating to Canada Labrador Boundary Reference, [1927] UKPC 25 Reference jurisdiction in other countries The government of the United Kingdom has the power to refer questions to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council.
A pipe band arrangement was composed in the 1950s by pipe major Alex Howie of the CFB Trenton Pipe band, and a trio for pipes was composed in 1970 by pipe major Archie Cairns.
The National War Finance Committee was set up in Canada in December 1941 by the Department of Finance.
There are currently about twenty official members of the Genocide Prevention Group, with some sixty parliamentarians who participate in events hosted by the Genocide Prevention Group.
This was also the first new council after the creation of the Yukon from the extreme northwest portion of the territories on June 13, 1898.
HIV/AIDS research and development, polio eradication, and the oversight of water and sanitation each received fifty million dollars.
References External links Official website Official website (French) Facebook (English) Facebook (French) Twitter (English) Twitter (French)
The New Brunswick order of precedence is a nominal and symbolic hierarchy of important positions within the province of New Brunswick.
She holds a PhD in psychology from the University of Ottawa and taught at this university, as well as at Glendon College and Laurentian University.
Born in Lotbinière, Quebec, he received a Bachelor of Commerce degree in 1948 and a Master of Commerce degree in 1949 from Université Laval.
As of December 2024, the Nation had a total of 88 registered members, including 39 residing on their own reserve.
Borden was also Prime Minister in the Tenth Canadian Ministry, which he formed for the coalition government with the Liberal–Unionists in the lead up to the 1917 Canadian federal election.
In military prosecutions in Canadian Armed Forces, Special Prosecutors are appointed in the circumstances of an actual or perceived conflict of interest during the prosecution.
For 2016, the compliance rate for accuracy of the measuring devices subject to mandatory inspection frequencies was 93%.
Jean-Pierre Kingsley (born July 12, 1943) is a Canadian civil servant and businessman who served as the president and CEO of the International Foundation for Electoral Systems (IFES).
Furthermore, ECS also provides services to external clients such as the development industry, utility companies, and other public agencies.
The non-mandatory market CBC Yellowknife transmitter, CFYK-DT, was transitioned to digital on July 31, 2012.
It was initially chaired by George Wilbur Spinney, president of the Bank of Montreal, and later by Graham Towers, the Governor of the Bank of Canada.
(Hamas is categorized as a terrorist organization by Canadian authorities.) Foreign Minister MacKay did meet with Palestinians in the West Bank but not with any members of Hamas, as Canadian diplomats are not allowed to negotiate with terrorist groups.
The inaugural intelligence commissioner of Canada is Jean-Pierre Plouffe, who took office on July 12, 2019 and served until October 1, 2022.
The exclusion of nurses from the exemption was described by some commentators as potentially contributing to gender inequity in Ontario, as the proportion of women is nursing is much higher than in other emergency professions.
The agency is a recent manifestation of historical good-relations and cooperation between the Commonwealth-Caribbean and the nation of Canada.
The council presided by Major-General John Wallace Carson, to which Hughes appointed his own son-in-law as secretary, began meeting weekly and formulating changes in policy.
Mills was often absent thus his office was held in acting by subordinates: Hector Theophilus Cramahe from 1766 to 1770 and Thomas Dunn from 1770 to 1777).
The OPB renders decisions for offenders serving a sentence of less than two years in an Ontario correctional institution and applications for temporary absences from correctional institutions for more than 72 hours.
The other 6 (including the City of Winnipeg) had run their parks & recreation programs through a council committee.
They are the ones that are facing legislative and regulatory restrictions." See also Foreign policy of the Stephen Harper government Freedom of religion in Canada References Sources == External links ==
Commanders-in-chief of the Canadian Armed Forces See also Monarchy of Canada and the Canadian Armed Forces Colonel-in-Chief References External links Department of National Defence: Governor General and Commander-in-Chief of Canada Commander-in-Chief | The Governor General of Canada
On 12 July 1996, as part of substantial governmental reorganization under the leadership of Jean Chrétien, the position was merged with that of the Minister of Supply and Services to create the office of Minister of Public Works and Government Services.
By portfolio Renamed, eliminated, and new ministries Cabinet shuffles 2018 shuffle On 18 July 2018, Prime Minister of Canada Justin Trudeau carried out a significant reshuffle of his ministry.
It is one of 13 adjudicative tribunals under the Ministry of the Attorney General that make up Tribunals Ontario.
In 2015–16, Measurement Canada issued 23,000 measurement standards certificates, performed over 4,000 oversight activities on the inspections done by Authorized Service Providers and approximately 15,000 marketplace monitoring inspections, as well as investigated over 1,400 complaints.
The Minister of Housing and Community Development was a cabinet minister position in the province of Manitoba, Canada.
However, the government now keeps the photographs in a large database to prevent identity theft, and ended the exemption.
The position was created in 2009 following the separation of the Family Services and Housing portfolio.
Regional - Tourism, Agriculture and Financial Services External links Official website - of the CEPC
Toronto Engineering and Construction Services (ECS; formerly known as Technical Services) is a division of the City of Toronto which provides engineering design, project management, construction management and stakeholder engagement for municipal public works projects.
Catherine Everett (2006) Michael Thomson (2007) Douglas Abra, (2007) Brian Midwinter, (2008) Robert G.
Securing an Open Society: Canada's National Security Policy was released to the public during a session in Parliament on 27 April 2004 by Anne McLellan, who then occupied the role of Deputy Prime Minister.
Bennett (1926, 1930–32) and Mackenzie Bowell (1896) are the only Prime Ministers to hold the title (Tupper held post before becoming a Prime Minister as Minister of Finance).
Negroponte, Deputy Secretary of State Controversy The inclusion of some members of the Arctic Council while excluding others (indigenous peoples, Finland, Iceland, and Sweden) from the conference caused controversy.
It also monitors the trade in certain goods and ensures the personal security of Canadians and citizens of other countries by restricting trade in dangerous goods and other materials.
President Bill Clinton at a meeting of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations on February 23, 2009.
The legislation is complemented by regulations, as well as directives from the Office of the Superintendent of Bankruptcy that provide guidelines to trustees in bankruptcy on various aspects of the BIA.
Chotalia implemented Access to Justice through customized hearing procedures focussed on restorative justice; parties reported 94 per cent satisfaction.
While its predecessors were part of the government, the Office of the Ethics Commissioner was made a separate parliamentary entity in order to help ensure its independence.
The purpose of Info Source is to help Canadians to access information available through the Privacy Act and the Access to Information Act.
Ministers On December 7, 1982 the position was renamed Canadian Minister of Regional Industrial Expansion.
Canada also hoped to become part of the inner circle of allied decision making during the Second World War, and Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King hosted British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and US President Franklin Roosevelt in Quebec City for that reason.
While rights to bilingualism in legislative bodies might allow for some members to understand each other if they happened to know the language being used, there was no guarantee for this.
It governed Canada from 21 June 1957 to 22 April 1963, including all of the 23rd, 24th, and 25th Canadian Parliaments.
The Minister of Human Resources and Social Development was a cabinet position active from 2006 to 2008, designed to consolidate social and economic programs.
The bill passed in the Commons on March 9, 2011 (172-111, including support from the Bloc Québécois and the New Democratic Party, all but two Liberals and 26 Conservatives).
On October 26, 2021, one month after the 2021 Canadian federal election that gave the governing Liberal Party a second minority mandate; the ministry underwent a cabinet shuffle, resulting in many promotions, demotions, and removals from cabinet.
Before exercising most discipline powers the Superintendent must give written notice and a reasonable opportunity for a hearing, and at such hearings may summon witnesses, require production of records, administer oaths, and issue written reasons that are reviewable in Federal Court.
The position came into effect on July 9, 2007, with the coming into force of the Conflict of Interest Act.
Nothing has happened on water which could be said to be directly or even indirectly related to the accident.
Visits 1860s 1920s 1930s 1940s 1950s 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s 2020s See also Royal tours of Canada State and official visits to the United Kingdom United States presidential visits to Canada == References ==
After a legal challenge from unions, it was struck down as unconstitutional in November 2022 by the Ontario Superior Court of Justice, a decision upheld by the Court of Appeal for Ontario in February 2024.
A Special Prosecutor is an officer of the Forces who is a member of the bar of a province in good standing and who is not a member of the Legal Branch of the Forces.
2018 British Columbia Electoral Reform Referendum In accordance to campaign promises, the BC NDP (In a confidence and supply agreement with the Greens) scheduled a plebiscite to be held between October 22 and November 30, 2018, with voting done through mail for those registered to vote.
Following the passage of the Naval Service Act establishing the Royal Canadian Navy in 1910, the viceroy was styled Commander-in-Chief of the Militia and Naval Forces and, after the creation of the Royal Canadian Air Force in 1918, as Commander-in-Chief of the Militia and Naval and Air Forces.
It is funded by the Montreal Institute for Genocide and Human Rights Studies and the Genocide Prevention Group's membership fees.
Canadian law has added "dry" jurisdiction to this field, which includes such matters as: stevedoring, marine insurance, warehousing and security services, contracts of agency, and contracts of carriage.
"Royal Air Force March Past" is the official march of the Royal Air Force (RAF) and is used in some other Commonwealth air forces, such as the Royal Canadian Air Force.
Linked to the aforementioned fear of a perceived 'governance gap', another motivation for creating this declaration was merely to block any calls for an Arctic Treaty that would bring in new legislation and new states.
Work began on CANALERT in 2003 with the First Canadian Public Alerting Forum and Workshop and continued with another forum in 2005.
The Conservatives governed in coalition with the Liberal-Conservative Party until 12 October 1916 when the last Liberal-Conservative cabinet minister, Sam Hughes, was dismissed.
"The instrumentalization of foreign aid under the Harper government." Studies in Political Economy 97.1 (2016): 18–36.
On November 20, 2024, Alberta MP Randy Boissonnault resigned following allegations that he ran a business seeking federal contracts and falsely claimed to be Indigenous.
After all written submissions have been filed, the Court holds an oral hearing on the reference questions.
She found that the government's need to fight fraud was pressing, and that driving was not a right, so the government was entitled to attach legitimate conditions to it.
Public Works Canada is preparing the buildings to allow other government departments to take their place.
Emerson's riding was Vancouver Kingsway, while Fortier lived and worked in the Montreal-Laval area and ran for the riding of Laval West for the Tories in 2000.
Mills was returned to the post from 1777 until he was forced out in 1789 The office was replaced by the division of Quebec into Upper Canada and Lower Canada in 1791.
1 Styled as Minister of Indian Affairs and Northern Development until May 18, 2011 By portfolio Earlier ministers See also 2008–2009 Canadian parliamentary dispute References == Succession ==
June 5 – Carney government wins approval of motion in support of the Speech from the Throne, without recorded division.
The opening of the first session of a parliament takes place over two days; the opening of a subsequent session of the same parliament requires only one day.
Under the Westminster system's conventions of responsible government, the cabinet—which advises the sovereign or his viceroy on the exercise of the executive powers—generally exercises the Crown prerogative powers relating to the Canadian forces.
In 2007, Kingsley was awarded the Mexican Order of the Aztec Eagle, the highest award the Mexican government bestows on foreign nationals.
Formation and history Until 2017, Canada was the only member of “Five Eyes” without a permanent mechanism for parliamentarians to review national security activities.
References External links Overview of section 17 case law at the Canadian Legal Information Institute.
Staff members Amanda Parris and Peter Knegt both write Digital Publishing Award-winning weekly columns for the CBC Arts website that highlight Black and LGBTQ culture from a Canadian perspective, respectively.
Ambassador to Canada David Wilkins for criticizing the Conservatives' plans to assert Canada's sovereignty over the Arctic Ocean waters through an increased presence by the Canadian Forces.
Opposition parties have argued that this undefined clause is "disturbingly wide" and allows the government abuse to cover up sloppy management, or a scandal within a department.
The agency's mandate is to ensure the integrity and accuracy of trade measurement in Canada, through enforcement and administration of federal acts and regulations.
After that date, other colonies of the empire attained Dominion status and similar arrangements were made.
Administrator of Canada The role of deputy of the governor general is separate from that of administrator of Canada.
The original English admiralty jurisdiction was called "wet", as it concerned itself with things done at sea, including collisions, salvage and the work of mariners, and contracts and torts performed at sea.
Child poverty in Canada declined since 2015, with the number of children who were living in poverty decreasing 71% by 2020.
For example, during the reign of King Alfonso XIII, when Carlos María Cortezo y Prieto de Orche was appointed as "Ministro de Instrucción Pública y Bellas Artes" (Minister for Public Instruction of Fine Arts), in the royal decree it was noted that he was a minister of the Crown.
The Canadian Human Rights Tribunal (French: Tribunal canadien des droits de la personne) is an administrative tribunal established in 1977 through the Canadian Human Rights Act.
The ministry should not be confused with the cabinet, as ministers of the Crown may be outside a cabinet.
The address in reply remains on the order paper for the entirety of the session and may, at any moment, be called for debate.
Therefore, the speaker is, broadly speaking, responsible for the maintenance of order and decorum in the Senate.
See also List of Supreme Court of Canada cases (McLachlin Court) References External links Full text of Supreme Court of Canada decision available at LexUM and CanLII Centre for Constitutional Studies: Alberta v.
Doyle (2000) Murray Sinclair (2001) Joan McKelvey (2001) Martin Freedman, (2002) Colleen Suche, (2002) Marilyn Goldberg, (2002) Shawn Greenberg (2003) Karen Simonsen (2004) Marianne Rivoalen (2005) Lori Spivak (2005) Lori Douglas (2005) A.
The Conservative government's move was seen by opposition members as a partisan attempt to bankrupt the other political parties and further increase their own party's financial advantage, and as a direct attack on the democratic process.
The monarch is vested with all powers of state and sits at the centre of a construct in which the power of the whole is shared by multiple institutions of government acting under the sovereign's authority.
In the case of Denmark's activities in the Arctic, its geographical positioning automatically makes Denmark a key actor, which is conveyed by the Ilulissat Declaration which Denmark's Foreign Minister instigated himself.
See also List of CBC Television stations List of programs broadcast by CBC Television Ici Radio-Canada Télé References External links Official website CBC/Radio-Canada Corporate Site CBC Television Network at The History of Canadian Broadcasting by the Canadian Communications Foundation
The program was complemented by the Canada Investment Fund for Africa, which instead of funding government projects, funded private investment in Africa.
The 4th North-West Legislative Assembly was the 6th meeting of the Northwest Territories Legislature.
Over time, former ministers and other distinguished persons were retained as peripheral advisers with designated ministers having the direct ear of the king.
It was expected that the case would, like the Chaoulli case, eventually be decided at the Supreme Court of Canada.
These supervisory functions can be and regularly are carried out by OSB employees under the Superintendent’s authority.
Its responsibilities are now split between: the Minister of Employment, Workforce Development and Disability Inclusion the Minister of Families, Children and Social Development.
The Alberta order of precedence is a nominal and symbolic hierarchy of important positions within the province of Alberta.
It was renamed and redistributed in 1886 as the riding of Grey Centre before being abolished in 1925 before the 1926 election.
With this, the Metropolitan Corporation of Greater Winnipeg (Metro Winnipeg) was incorporated in 1960.
Federal SOAs function, without legislation, within a framework agreement approved by their given department's deputy minister, the minister responsible for the agency, and the Treasury Board.
Canadian doctrinal and judicial writing on functus officio is sparse, even though the rule itself derives from a 19th century case of the English Court of Appeal.
In the 2018 meeting, the previously excluded members of the Arctic Council were invited, namely Sweden, Iceland, and Finland, in addition to indigenous organisations part of the Arctic Council.
Turpin President of the University of Calgary: Ed McCauley President of the University of Lethbridge: Michael J.
We must agree on the rules and what to do if climate changes make more shipping possible." Ilulissat's melting glacier was an appropriate backdrop for the landmark conference.
The only major city this left out was Toronto, although the Conservatives indicated that they considered enough Cabinet Ministers to be from the Greater Toronto Area, including Jim Flaherty and Bev Oda, to adequately represent the city in Cabinet.
Defending Denmark's decision to exclude certain council members, Thomas Winkler, head of Denmark's International Law Department stated, "This meeting in Ilulissat is not a competition to the Arctic Council.
The speaker has the right and power to cast an original vote, and to simultaneously preside over the voting process (rather than the speaker merely delivering a tie-breaking vote).
Parties to the reference file detailed written submissions on the legal issues raised by the reference, supplemented by factual records if necessary.
Adam was appointed by the provincial government to chair the French Language University Planning Board which led to the creation of the Université de l'Ontario français (UOF) in 2018.
Blue Gold: The Battle Against Corporate Theft of the World's Water (with Tony Clarke) – Stoddart, Toronto (2002) ISBN 0-7710-1086-9.
As these references became more overtly political, they exposed the Court to sustained criticism from the Conservative opposition.
In 2008/2009, was Senior Advisor on Water to the 63rd President of the United Nations General Assembly.
In some cases, such as royal weddings in the United Kingdom or D-Day commemoration ceremonies in France, the Canadian monarch and/or one or more other members of the Royal Family and the governor general will be present together.
The OPB is separate from the Parole Board of Canada, which can make parole decisions for individuals who are serving a sentence of 2 years or more.
After the 1987 elections the candidates who had missed out on ministerial positions were nominated as parliamentary secretaries.
If it had become operational as intended, it would have been the first federal government operated national public alerting system in Canada since the demise of the National Attack Warning Siren System (NAWSS) in the late 1980s.
The economic statement was eventually released at 4:11 PM EST that same day, showing a deficit of $61.9 billion for 2023–24, exceeding Freeland's target of $40.1 billion or less, and left Trump's tariff threats largely unaddressed.
Bennett (acting) Minister of the Interior 29 June 1926 – 13 July 1926: Henry Herbert Stevens (acting) 13 July 1926 – 25 September 1926: R.
The ranks of MCpl/MS (MCpl/MS is an appointment given to a Cpl) and below are also collectively known as "junior ranks" (JRs).
British Columbia (Medical Services Commission) In 2009, the Cambie Surgery Centre and patients filed a lawsuit versus the province's Medical Services Commission.
In 2011, Trans Link Systems considered suing Webwereld because they sold RFID writers that could be used for free traveling in Dutch public transport.
In 2021, TechTarget announced the acquisition of Xtelligent Healthcare Media, a marketing services, media, and data company.
Founded in October 2005, and based in New York, ITerating was created by CEO Nicolas Vandenberghe, who saw that there was an industry need for a comprehensive resource to help evaluate software solutions.
Beyond continuous publication of the website, it is known for its overclocking championships and other contests.
The platform was founded with the aim to solve legal and ethical issues surrounding sampling and music clearances.
Karma points are calculated as the number of upvotes a given user's content has received minus the number of downvotes.
By marking up content in semantic (X)HTML, front-end developers make a site's content more available to search engines, more accessible to people with disabilities, and more available to the world beyond the desktop (e.g.
Format Application installers designed for use with the PortableApps.com menu follow the convention of using filenames ending in a paf.exe extension, include HTML documentation, and store data in the Data directory.
Journalists Brenno de Winter References External links Official website at the Wayback Machine (archived 2017-03-01)
Its content includes searchable databases for looking up Windows start-up programs and uninstall entries, as well as a free Internet forum to receive computer help.
M3, together with tech magazines "Computer Sweden", "PC för alla" and "MacWorld", were owned by International Data Group until 2025 when they were sold to private equity firm Regent LP.
The first section, titled "zahabrennye" (in Russian, "захабренные"), broadcasts entries that have received high approval from users of the website.
History Webwereld was founded in 1995 by Oscar Kneppers, who got the idea after visiting Silicon Valley in the summer of that year.
See also Acid1 Acid2 Acid3 References External links Official website Third-party mirror html5test.co (doesn't support all features of the original) Third-party mirror html5test.opensuse.org
A few examples of X-Software include X-Firefox (counterpart to Mozilla Firefox), X-Thunderbird (Mozilla Thunderbird), X-Gimp (GIMP), and others.
Geekologie was updated multiple times a day with articles on gadgets, video games, consumer electronics and popular culture related to games and movies.
In June 2005, the Web Standards Project decided that an anti-Internet Explorer campaign did not fit with their mission, and they handed the site over to Matt Mullenweg.
Editorial expansion In 2011, Memeburn expanded to launch Gearburn.com, a sister site which is focused on gadget and game reviews and news and Motorburn.com, which focuses on car news.
Users were able to moderate or respond to each post, a template the editor admitted borrowing from Slashdot.
Related publications include Brandweek, Adweek Magazine's Technology Marketing (ISSN 1536-2272), and Marketing Week (ISSN 0892-8274).
For a virtual funeral it is used an online video conference platform, such as Zoom, Skype, Google Meet.
retailers' sales of surveillance equipment manufactured by companies linked to abuses of Uyghurs as well as with The Intercept to investigate the U.S.
User contributions since May 2, 2018 are licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International.
WinPenPack programs are distributed as free software, and can be downloaded individually or grouped into suites.
Media personality Ryan Seacrest first came to national prominence at CNET, as the host of The New Edge and doing various voice-over work for CNET.
Wired executives blamed Goldman for mismanaging their IPO and not closing the round which already had investors booked.
It was further developed by the same people who developed Acorn Arcade, the contents of which were incorporated in 2006.
Alcatel-Lucent was looking to integrate ProgrammableWeb’s API monitoring services and other API related technologies with its own Open API Service and Developer Platform to strengthen its relationship with developers.
The website's author, Denis Kryuchkov, was nominated for the Producer of the Year prize (Russian: Продюсер года).
AI-generated content (2023) In January 2023, Wikipedia editors began the process of downgrading CNET's reliability rating as a source following the revelation that CNET was publishing content generated by artificial intelligence.
GeekWire is regularly featured on the Techmeme leaderboard as one of the sources most frequently posted to that site.
A "Tech Update" section was created to serve as a directory of proprietary IT research (dubbed "IT Priorities"), and a new "Power Center" was implemented to prominently feature webcasts, white papers and case studies from partners.
Numerama (formerly Ratiatum) is a French language news website that focuses on digital and internet technology.
Due to the prominence of Stack Exchange profiles in web search results and the Stack Overflow Careers job board, users may have reason to game the system.
Background Founded by Shaherose Charania, Angie Chang, and Shivani Sopory, the group organizes workshops and events aimed at helping female entrepreneurs.
Up to the end of 2019, the platform reported 272,020 fixed vulnerabilities using coordinated disclosure program based on ISO 29147 guidelines.
Additional functionality is available, such as providing building guides, sharing build lists, photos, and instruction, alerts for price drops, forums, and filters for automatically adjusting pre-made lists of components.
The latest round brought the company's total funding to more than $150 million and estimated valuation to nearly $500 million.
The name comes from the so-called LAN (Local area network) parties, which were where the founders gathered to play videogames 20 years ago, and would translate to English as "LANners".
Softpedia, VR-Zone, TweakTown, and the Tom's Hardware Forum all credited SemiAccurate for leaking these specifications.
Slyck covered other news topics such as rollout of broadband Internet, new and emerging technologies, device hardware, and advances in computer networking.
Stan's Lounge is crowded with MacCentral and MacMinute faithful in honor of Stan Flack and all that he did for the Macintosh community.
The project re-launched in June 2002 with new members, a redesigned website, new site features, and a redefined mission focused on developer education and standards compliance in authoring tools as well as browsers.
The magazine was published monthly until 2024, when it switched to a bi-monthly schedule with six issues per year.
A comprehensive list of advice and recommendations are available in the "Reduce" section of the site.
In 2017, The Next Web's Amsterdam conference came under fire for making misleading statements, and having a lack of transparency about paying presenters for speaking appearances, and for having a gender gap in the number of its male and female presenters, and a gender pay gap in their compensation.
TechRepublic was a part of the Red Ventures business portfolio alongside ZDNet, CNET, GameSpot, and Metacritic.
In 2025, TNW announced it would shut down its events and media operations, holding its last conference in June, while its coworking business continues to operate.
When Drobe closed as a news site in 2009, The Icon Bar was cited as a notable alternative and took over running the annual awards scheme for the RISC OS scene.
Events on behalf of the site were created, along with a podcast with Benjamin Gilbert and a webcomic.
Attrition is an information security-related website, created in October, 1998, which used to be updated at least weekly by an all-volunteer staff.
During this period it changed its motto to "the Independent Journal of Open Standards and Open Source".
It posted an announcement on July 20, 2016, that the site was down for an upgrade and would be restored in the shortest possible time.
Cangeloso, who had been promoted to Editor-in-Chief when Joel Evans left at the close of 2009 stayed on board in the same position.
In 2019, the sites underwent a redesign, with the Memeburn, Gearburn, and Motorburn sites operating under the Memeburn.com domain.
In 2022, IPVM partnered with the MIT Technology Review to examine an Israeli company's plan to develop DNA-based facial recognition and was cited in an ESPN exposé on Brooklyn Nets owner Joseph Tsai discussing Alibaba's, Megvii's and SenseTime's Uyghur-targeting software.
It functions as an online code editor and open-source learning environment, where developers can create code snippets, called "pens," and test them.
On August 9, 2021, a Nashville-based technology marketing company, TechnologyAdvice, announced the acquisition of TechRepublic.
It developed as a project of Graham's company Y Combinator, functioning as a real-world application of the Arc programming language which Graham co-developed.
In 2016, it was announced that Condé Nast had purchased Backchannel, though no terms of the deal were communicated, and only a transfer of the editorial team was planned.
In August, a complaint about Cryptome's identification of alleged Japanese terrorists led Network Solutions to briefly shut down the site.
Haller and includes contributions from over 100 people, including developers, designers, and translators.
Open-sourcing On August 7, 2020, Hunt announced on his blog his intention to open-source the Have I Been Pwned?
Its controversial opinions and perceived biases in its computer hardware rankings against AMD products have drawn criticism in the tech press.
An example of an online memorial is The COVID Memorial, which is a global memorial to commemorate all those who have lost their lives due to COVID-19.
The publication was subsequently acquired by TechMediaNetwork in 2013; in 2014, TechMediaNetwork changed its name to Purch, which was then acquired by Future in 2018.
The site's staff decorated the Trocadero Theatre for the screenings of Jennifer's Body in 2009 and Zombieland in 2010.
The website publishes a repository of web APIs, mashups, and applications, and has documented over 19,000 open web APIs and thousands of applications.
Philadelphia Geek Awards In 2011, Geekadelphia launched the Philadelphia Geek Awards, in conjunction with the Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel University, to honor and celebrate achievements within the Philadelphia community.
Its content is compiled through a combination of live company data, artificial intelligence, and market activity contributed by a user base of over 80 million.
It was also explained that Backchannel had migrated away from Medium because of the platform's shifting business model.
On February 3, 2023, Mulesoft announced that it had shut down Programmable Web after 17 years of operation.
The Next Web company was established in 2006 by co-founders Boris Veldhuijzen van Zanten and Patrick de Laive in Amsterdam, Netherlands, and a technology news website of the same name was started in 2009.
Three years later on April 13, 2013, MuleSoft announced the acquisition of ProgrammableWeb to "become the go-to destination for APIs and Integration”.
He has publicly denounced the writings from competitor Tom's Hardware, Gizmodo, HardOCP, The Inquirer and DigiTimes.
On October 23, 2019, Lacy announced that Pando had been sold to one of its partners, BuySellAds, and that she had retired from journalism to focus on her new venture Chairman Mom—a community for "working women".
Operations Informa is organized into five operating divisions: Informa Connect, Informa Festivals, Informa Markets, Informa TechTarget, and Taylor & Francis.
The site features coverage on CPUs, motherboards, RAM, PC cases, graphic cards, display technology, power supplies and displays, storage, smartphones, tablets, gaming, consoles, and computer peripherals.
The attack was able to extract 8% of the site's username/password pairs, which amounted to approximately 8,000 of the 9,000 active accounts and 90,000 old or inactive accounts created during the site's 10-year history.
In late April 2002, Butler announced a relaunch of the site that included a reduction in links to other sites and a further increase in original content.
At the end of 2016, the site hosted a five-hour Facebook "Gifted and Talented Show" made up of sketches and holiday gift suggestions.
In June 2024, Informa closed two UK-based titles: Digital TV Europe and Television Business International.
The software was soon thereafter discontinued and Ghacks turned from a development type blog to a software and online news oriented blog.
Kaspersky's software is available for Macs, PCs, Android, iOS, Windows Mobile, BlackBerry and Symbian.
Ultimate Frisbee Association Brownlee is a professional ultimate frisbee player for the New York Empire of the Ultimate Frisbee Association (UFA), who were the UFA champions in 2019, 2022 and 2023.
Some groups are concerned that the workers who do the actual recycling are exposed to toxins that can be harmful to their health.
Its reports have drawn the ire of Chinese video surveillance equipment company Hikvision, whom IPVM revealed to have been providing surveillance equipment and technology key in the mass internment of ethnic minorities in Xinjiang.
In January 2024, Informa announced that it would merge the digital business of Informa Tech with TechTarget.
TechRepublic is an online trade publication and social community for IT professionals, providing advice on best practices and tools for the needs of IT decision-makers.
In July 2007, the forum underwent major changes that site administrators stated as necessary for furthering userbase growth.
Some posts are designated as "community wiki", which have a lower reputation requirement for editing.
History "MacInTouch" began as an independent print journal in 1985, originally published by Ford-LePage Inc., to provide news and information about Macintosh computers.
Kaspersky linked the malware to a state-affiliated group but did not specify which country was behind the attack.
Uber controversy On October 22, 2014, an article by Lacy on PandoDaily was published where she sharply criticised the "asshole culture" of Uber and said she intended to delete the mobile app from her phone.
Gists' URLs use hexadecimal IDs, and edits to Gists are recorded in a revision history, which can show the text difference of thirty revisions per page with an option between a "split" and "unified" view.
8-Track Heaven aka Eight-Track Heaven was a website that was dedicated to the 8-track cartridge and the associated equipment.
The research consisted of two phases: Phase 1 tested over 3 billion drug-like molecules against 12 proteins which were known to be suitable targets for anti-cancer drugs.
Founded in 2007, the blog also co-hosted the Philadelphia Geek Awards with the Academy of Natural Sciences of Drexel University.
Jiayuan fixed the issue and publicly thanked YW, but reported him for alleged theft of more than 900 rows of personal information in January 2016.
Although membership was free, the forum community allows for anonymous posting so the information or source in [anonymous] posts may be questionable as compared to posts made by actual frequent members of the site.
In 2016, TechTarget named Michael Cotoia as CEO and board member, and elected Greg Stakosch as executive chairman.
When the account is memorialized, Facebook removes sensitive information such as contact information and status updates, but still enables friends and family to leave posts on the profile wall in remembrance.
In December 2013, Informa acquired the assets of Elsevier Business Intelligence (EBI) from Reed Elsevier.
MacMinute was noted for its up to the minute digest of current breaking news about everything connected to the Macintosh and Apple products but one of its more important functions was to serve as a forum for the Macintosh community.
Products Crunchbase's core offerings include: Crunchbase Pro, a paid subscription service that offers advanced search filters, analysis tools, and alerts for monitoring private companies.
In August 2011, SemiAccurate published two stories, one covering the specifications of Nvidia's unreleased mobile graphics line up, and another covering the specifications of AMD's (one of Nvidia's direct competitors) unreleased mobile graphics line up.
Additional components Aside from the immediate functional uses, the site educates the public on how to "reduce" their energy usage and "rethink" the way they consume electronics products.
It gives consumers the opportunity to find an electronics recycler in their area using a zip-code search.
Since the CryptoLocker ransomware attack in September 2013, and a subsequent DDoS of the site due to its reporting on the new malware, Bleeping Computer has been reporting on new ransomware families as they are released.
PortableApps.com is a website that distributes free applications for Windows that have been packaged for portability.
An average of five posts are published each day of the week with topics ranging from Windows and Linux operating system news to web browser tips (focusing on Firefox, Google Chrome and Opera, online services like Gmail and Outlook.com, and general tech news and tips.
For example, in 2008 it appealed to site users to make videos arguing the case against the HADOPI law.
The site aims to be a reference guide for the IT industry and includes reviews, ratings, articles, and detailed product feature comparisons.
Had browser makers not been persuaded to do so, the Web would likely have fractured into pockets of incompatible content, with various websites available only to people who possessed the right browser.
Kaspersky is especially well-known for its work uncovering Stuxnet, Careto, and Flame." Stuxnet In 2010, Kaspersky Lab worked with Microsoft to counteract the Stuxnet worm, which had infected 14 industrial locations in Iran using four zero-day vulnerabilities in Microsoft Windows.
Program Unlike commercial bug bounty programs, Open Bug Bounty is a non-profit project and does not require payment by either the researchers or the website operators.
TechRadar Pro TechRadar Pro, an arm of the main site, is a B2B-focused property with an emphasis on small business.
PCPartPicker is a comparison shopping website that allows users to compare prices and compatibility of computer components on different retailers online.
Eventually, the site came out of public beta with the name Ask Ubuntu, which was chosen through a community voting process, and was launched alongside Ubuntu 10.10 Maverick Meerkat in October 2010.
History Beginnings: 1991–1995 ZDNET began as a subscription-based digital service called "ZiffNet" that offered computing information to users of CompuServe.
CodePen is a large community for web designers and developers to showcase their coding skills, with an estimated 330,000 registered users and 14.16 million monthly visitors.
Anand Lal Shimpi is frequently quoted and featured on DailyTech; however, the two publications compete against each other for readership.
In 2020 the event was fully online and for their 2021 event they held a hybrid and smaller event because of COVID-19 restrictions in the Netherlands.
An argument between attrition.org and MasterCard ensued, resulting in their communications and one final "Priceless" parody being posted online.
Launched to provide a web only product for increasingly internet-literate users, access was deliberately made free to compete with paid-for magazine subscriptions.
In April 2023, Brownlee collaborated with footwear brand Atoms to create the high-top Sneaker 251, named after the duration of his first YouTube video.
In February 2018, the platform had 100,000 fixed vulnerabilities using coordinated disclosure program based on ISO 29147 guidelines.
Popular memorial sites include one example of this is the collective memorial website Find a Grave, which at that time was focused on publishing memorial information about famous people.
Graham stated he hopes to avoid the Eternal September that results in the general decline of intelligent discourse within a community.
In July 2013, that company was acquired by TechMediaNetwork, Inc., which changed its name to Purch in April 2014.
GeekWire founders John Cook and Todd Bishop were former technology reporters at the Seattle Post-Intelligencer and the Puget Sound Business Journal.
AlternativeTo does not host software for download but it provides links to official websites to where you can download or buy them.
M3 was influential in Sweden during the 2000s, when its tests, reviews, and investigations were frequently cited as sources in mainstream media such as Dagens Industri, Svenska Dagbladet, Expressen, Dagens Nyheter, Aftonbladet and others.
Availability of inexpensive or free online space allows grievers to include extensive content such as stories and discussions.
In April 2022, the website went inactive, save for a black main page with the message "Geekologie has shut down.
It allowed users to download, get support for, contribute to, and report issues about the open source Globus Toolkit based products offered by Univa.
[it's] not just bad code, [it's] believable bad code." In addition to "a High-Resolution JPEG of an Official Olympiad of Misguided Geeks at Worse Than Failure First Prize Trophy," the winner received a 15-inch MacBook Pro.
MacInTouch's moderated forums provide technical analysis, problem-solving and news from the community.
It was founded in 2012 by full-stack developers Alex Vazquez and Tim Sabat and front-end designer Chris Coyier.
It publishes news focusing heavily on cybersecurity, but also covers other topics including computer software, computer hardware, operating system and general technology.
In May 2009 the company announced that it would restructure its business to be incorporated in Jersey but tax resident in Switzerland.
The site currently hosts various projects created and suggested by forum members, and is also used for bug reporting and suggestions.
GitHub Marketplace service GitHub also provides some software as a service (SaaS) integrations for adding extra features to projects.
The project was operated from January 22, 2002, until February 14, 2002, and ended after a total of 3.57 billion molecules had finished screening.
History BleepingComputer was founded in 2004 after Abrams could not find existing technical support sites that could offer easy-to-understand instructions for his friends and family.
External links MacMinute as served on MacTech servers References (1) "Opening Day at MacMinute", "MacMinute News", May 9, 2001.
The subbrand "acts as a complementary source of information targeted specifically at businesses and decision makers," the company says.
Originally edited by Tim Gallagher, the column was taken over by Derrick Pallas (now the sole editor of CodeSOD) as well as Devin Moore and Mike Nuss on 2 January 2007.
From 2008 to 2011, the site held an annual Christmas Giveaway, with commercial software given away to readers.
This merge brought many changes, foremost of which would be a new user interface and the renaming of CNET TV as CNET Video.
Bishop and Cook joined the Puget Sound Business Journal to create TechFlash in September 2008, leaving to start GeekWire on March 7, 2011.
On July 4, 2002, Open for Business, LinuxandMain.com, KernelTrap and Device Forge's LinuxDevices and DesktopLinux.com formed LinuxDailyNews (LDN), an aggregation site that was intended to help increase the publicity of independent open source news sites.
On 9 January 2024, Leenheer announced a problem with the app's server and added that he has no incentives to work on it anymore.
There is also an annual business plan competition that culminates in a Pitch Night, where finalists present their plan before a panel of judges.
Phandroid has evolved to cover news from Google in general, as well as Android TV, Android Wear, Google Glass, Chromecast, and Android Auto.
The MacInTouch Home Page website, created by Ric Ford in 1994, was serving daily Mac news and information to more than a million people by 1998.
Wired is a bimonthly American magazine that examines the impact of emerging technologies on culture, the economy, and politics.
Following an almost $400 million loss at CNET as a result of the dot-com crash, the company ended the Gamecenter Alliance network in January 2001.
By 1996, it had launched a book publishing division (HardWired), licensed a Japanese edition with Dohosha Publishing, created a British edition (Wired UK) in a joint venture with the Guardian newspaper, and had signed with Gruner and Jahr to do a German edition to be headquartered in Berlin.
The idea for SDNCentral came in 2012 after a Twitter feed focusing on technology news run by Palmer and Chua in 2011 grew popular, and the company changed its focus to market analytics and technology journalism, as a way to educate industry drivers on developments in the field.
It is particularly interested in the BRICS, as well as digital innovation, viral online marketing campaigns and general tech trends.
On June 5, 2008 it is announced on the Macminute news site that MacTech's Community News Scan and Macsimum News will act as caretakers to the archives of MacMinute News and Forums.
Cole – "Middle Child" (6× platinum) ¥$ (Kanye West and Ty Dolla Sign) – "Burn" DJ Khaled – "Holy Mountain" Brockhampton – "Dearly Departed" Lil Wayne – "Harden" Fred Again – "Leavemealone" Nas – "WTF SMH" Drake – "Stories About My Brother" Nicki Minaj – "Super Freaky Girl" Mary J.
Prior to Meredith purchasing Time Inc., Trusted Reviews was regularly featured as a contributor to Time Magazine.
Dean Garfield, then head of the MPAA's legal team, was interviewed by Nicholas Parr about the MPAA's legal campaign against movie piracy.
The core of the site was a collection of testimonials by people who had switched from Internet Explorer to alternative web browsers.
Users with 2,000 reputation points or more can edit the questions and answers directly, without having their edits go through a similar peer review process.
Gmail, Google's webmail service, as well as many other RSS readers, has included Geekologie as a default RSS feed, pulling the latest articles which appear at the top of all user's mailboxes.
Each application has an RSS feed for notifying users of newly listed alternatives to that application.
Users can browse and hear all music before downloading it in WAV-format to use in a digital audio workstation (DAW) such as Ableton, Reason, or FL Studio.
Posts get there from users who have not yet received access to commenting and creating posts without pre-moderation.
An album Links Outta Here which is dedicated to her was released on the Generator Sound Art that year.
InfraXmedia acquired SDxCentral in April 2025, with executive editor Dan Meyer staying with the brand post-purchase.
In general, content that can be submitted is defined as "anything that gratifies one's intellectual curiosity." The word hacker in "Hacker News" is used in its original meaning and refers to the hacker culture which consists of people who enjoy tinkering with technology.
ITerating was a Wiki-based software guide, where users could find, compare and give reviews to software products.
It was founded in 1997 in Louisville, Kentucky, by Tom Cottingham and Kim Spalding, and debuted as a website in May 1999.
The website received more than 400,000 visitors per day as of January 2017, and as of June 2019 has an Alexa traffic rank of 9,537 worldwide and 4,269 in the United States.
However, the publication would begin to gain notoriety more broadly following its investigations into Chinese surveillance firms.
History The company, under the name SDNCentral (named for software-defined networking, which was the original intent for the company) was co-founded by Matthew Palmer and Roy Chua in 2012.
It does not evaluate a browser's conformance to other web standards, such as Cascading Style Sheets, ECMAScript, or the Document Object Model.
The platform was acquired by InfraXmedia, the parent company of DatacenterDynamics, in April 2025, with its headquarters moved from Denver, Colorado, to London.
The GitHub Archive Program is also working with partners on Project Silica, in an attempt to store all public repositories for 10,000 years.
M3 is a Swedish technology news website, established in 2001 through the merger of two technology magazines, Maxidata and Mobile World.
The company had an initial public offering in May 2007, being listed on the NASDAQ exchange with the symbol TTGT.
In his last issue in February, he ushered in a complete redesign of the magazine, the first since its start.
iThome.com.tw speculated that the most likely reason for the shutdown of WooYun was that hackers on the platform exposed a vulnerability in the system of China's United Front Work Department, which had leaked Chinese state secrets and stepped on the bottom line of the Chinese government.
The app drew widespread criticism from the tech community, mainly for its implementation of a subscription model ($12/month or $50/year) that was deemed overpriced.
Wiki Matrix Iterating announced the addition of a Feature Matrix in June 2007, which allows users to dynamically create customized, side-by-side feature comparisons of software solutions.
Notable guest appearances In addition to the mostly anonymous stories, several prominent figures have written stories they’ve encountered in their professional experience, such as Blake Ross who wrote of the failure of Netscape 7.
In fall 2015 it had 466,000 unique visitors per month; in February 2019, Humanoid reported that the site had 2 million unique visitors per month; by December 2021, 7–10 million.
The troubled Geeknet sold Geek.com to Ziff Davis at the beginning of January 2011 for an undisclosed amount.
In each different winPenPack suite, the main menu is pre-configured to list all programs available (including programs belonging to other suites), and can be edited at any time.
Despite its place as the oldest operating Android site, it has declined in recent years and is no longer actively maintained.
To test with the open free slots, non-subscribers must finish "a 3D captcha minigame" with the objective of shooting 13 ships to the ground.
It was founded in April 1997 by then-14-year-old Anand Lal Shimpi, who was CEO and editor-in-chief until August 2014, with Ryan Smith replacing him as editor-in-chief.
All resumes and vacancies divided by sector ("consulting, outsourcing," "Optimizing sites (SEO)», «Media", etc.).
In February 2024, he joined everyday accessories company Ridge as a board member and chief creative partner.
On November 6, 2007, Wired.com published an article titled "Android Already Has Phandroids." Due to the Wired article and growing interest in Android, the site saw massive growth overnight.
The repository has an emphasis on extreme programming, and is hosted by Cunningham & Cunningham (C2) of Portland, Oregon.
The site covers news released by researchers and companies, but also performs in-house investigative reporting and analysis of ransomware and malware.
In August 2018, he was featured in the BBC series My Asian Alter Ego talking about life as a British Asian.
The archive contained the code of all active public repositories, as well as that of dormant but significant public repositories.
Along with posting questions and answers, users can add comments to them and edit text written by others.
In October 2011, Webwereld started Lektober (portmanteau of leak and October in Dutch) where they publicized about a security bug every day of the month in a website of a well-known Dutch organization.
Adweek awards Each year Adweek honors companies and individuals in the marketing and media industry by giving out several different awards, such as the Adweek 50, Brand Genius, Creative 100, Agency of the Year, Media Plan of the Year and Marketing Vanguard.
Geekadelphia was a Philadelphia-based weblog focused on entertainment, science, technology and other related areas pertaining to the city of Philadelphia.
In June 2011, SemiAccurate published a story detailing the scandal that led AMD, Nvidia, and VIA to leave Intel as the lone semiconductor design company in the BAPCo consortium.
The Daily WTF (also called Worse Than Failure from February to December 2007) is a humorous blog dedicated to "Curious Perversions in Information Technology".
As of 2025, TechTarget's board of directors is chaired by Mary McDowell, an American technology executive.
History ProgrammableWeb was founded in 2005 by John Musser and had documented 1,000 APIs by November 2008.
Awards In 2010, Memeburn was awarded the UCT Graduate School of Business' Best Blog award at the South African Blog Awards, and later won a bronze award for Specialist Publisher Site at the Bookmark Awards.
AV-Comparatives awarded Kaspersky "Product of the Year" for 2015, based on the number of high scores it received throughout the year on a wide range of tests.
By March, the site lost all of its editors and stopped publishing news until it was sold at the end of the year.
In 2025, Crunchbase partnered with Perplexity, making Crunchbase's firmographic and funding data available within Perplexity Enterprise Pro.
Conformance testing for those standards is within the purview of Acid3, an automated test published by Ian Hickson in 2008.
TechRadar also has licensed versions in Italy, Spain, Germany, France, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, the Netherlands and Belgium.
It is a collection of open source applications that have been modified to be executed directly from a USB flash drive (or any other removable storage device) without prior installation.
Habr's corporate blogs are authored by companies that include Google, Yandex, Intel, Microsoft, Samsung, and ABBYY, among others.
The change was reverted on December 12, 2007, after a short and tongue-in-cheek stint as "The Daily Worse Than Failure".
In 2006, Republican communications aide Todd Shriber attempted to hire Attrition to crack his former university's website.
TechTarget announced in 2024 that it would merge with the digital business of Informa's Informa Tech division.
After it is validated and a basic prototype has been created, the team applies to incubators such as Astia, TechStars, Springboard, and YCombinator, among others.
In April 5, 2008, Grand Effect blog advertising network, co-founded by Sarah Perez and David Peralty, included eXtra for Every Publisher, gHacks, ParisLemon, SheGeeks, Sarah in Tampa, and The Last Podcast!.
Human Proteome Folding Project, phase 1 The IBM-sponsored Human Proteome Folding Project ("HPF"), phase 1, was announced on November 16, 2004, and was completed July 3, 2006.
Russ Forster, a musician, founder of Underdog Records and member of bands; Gore Gore Girls, Spongetunnel and Dashing Marble was the editor of the fanzine 8-Track Mind.
CodePen is an online community for testing and showcasing user-created HTML, CSS and JavaScript code snippets.
In late June 2015, PandoDaily switched to a subscription model, with most of their articles behind a paywall.
An online memorial may be a one-page HTML webpage document giving the name of the deceased and a few words of tribute, an extensive information source, or be part of a social media platform where users can add their own words and photos.
The move followed a similar evolution of the news section of AnandTech's peer publication, Tom's Guide, into TG Daily some months earlier.
It was taken down in 2004 after a hacker managed to deface the site; although plans existed to restore the site, they were never followed through with and Device Forge assumed the rights to LDN's domain name.
On November 30, 2023, Zoë Ruderman was announced as Chief Content Officer and Drew Schutte as Chief Revenue Officer.
Current status By June 2016 Slyck had ceased publishing new news articles, with the last file-sharing news article being posted on 16 June 2016.
In 2018, the owner of Phandroid.com announced the site was for sale and would cease operating as a traditional Android news blog.
ZDTV On May 11, 1998, Ziff-Davis launched ZDTV as the first cable television channel and website to offer 24-hour programming about computing and the Internet.
Backchannel was an online magazine that published in-depth stories on technology-related news on Medium.
This type of ceremony became widespread during the COVID-19 pandemic due to the public health restrictions.
Others believe that manufacturers of electronics should take full responsibility for the recycling or disposal of their products.
The site contains a variety of information, including movie and music reviews, poetry, and security tips covering topics like forensics, data theft, and security advisories.
In July, Cryptome alleged LinkNYC was "tracking Cryptome's movements through the city" after the company responded to Cryptome's social media posts by attempting to prevent them from photographing the company's installations.
With other Internet users supporting the proposal of the site through "commitment", Stack Exchange chose to launch Ask Ubuntu in private beta.
In 2004, co-founder Richard Goodwin was nominated for the Drobe awards for keeping the "popular forum" online.
In February 2025, SuperSaf partnered with OnePlus for the launch of the OnePlus Watch 3 where he interviewed British former professional boxer David Haye.
The AnandTech forums are home to distributive computing teams, known collectively as TeAm AnandTech (or simply The TeAm).
See also Open Hub ProgrammableWeb Open Directory Project Product Hunt Free Software Directory References External links Official website
As of February 2025, the TechRadar masthead lists 40 staff members, not including subbrands TechRadar Pro and TechRadar Gaming.
Laneros (often stylized as LANeros) is a digital community of over 390,000 members worldwide, mostly of Hispanic countries, started in 1999.
The content of the website was said to be preserved, but no new articles or reviews would be published.
See also List of AIGA medalists D&AD AIGA Core77 Ad Age Adland References External links Official website
In March 2021, the Journal of Biomedical Optics published a study by five IPVM researchers and a U.S.
The site offered help to the 8-track enthusiast by offering free ads, tips and links to other sites that featured the cartridges.
Another Dutch tech website Tweakers.net was founded in 1998 after Femme Taken concluded that the moderation on Webwereld was too strict.
Differences Unlike a number of other software directory websites, the software is not arranged into categories, but each individual piece of software has its own list of alternatives.
One notable article, an explanation on the lies surrounding the cartoon Street Sharks, went viral on sites like Vox, The A.V.
Trusted Reviews is a web publication focused on technology, published in London, UK by Trusted Reviews Limited.
The website covers the consumer technology market, focusing on mobile phones, TV and audio visual equipment and computing.
In June 2016, an additional "mega breach" of 171 million accounts from Russian social network VK was added to HIBP's database.
Reader supported On December 4, 2012, SemiAccurate moved from an ad revenue supported business model to a paywall business model.
The data included 3.6 million records from Neteller obtained in 2009 using an exploit in Joomla, and 4.2 million records from Skrill (then known as Moneybookers) that leaked in 2010 after a virtual private network was compromised.
News The site was a source of internet related news and opinion, and occasionally breaks stories about broadband internet service providers, such as Time Warner Cable's 2008 decision to test consumption-based billing with subscribers.
Due to other obligations, the site's editors ceased writing content for the site in early 2006, though it remained open during this period.
Until 21 May 2001, Attrition maintained the largest mirror of defaced (or cracked) websites available on the World Wide Web.
This functionality was enabled for the Ashley Madison data, as well as for data from other potentially scandalous sites, such as Adult FriendFinder.
Open Bug Bounty was launched by private security enthusiasts in 2014, and as of February 2017 had recorded 100,000 vulnerabilities, of which 35,000 had been fixed.
2013: In February, Cryptome's website, email and Twitter account were compromised, exposing whistleblowers and sources that had corresponded with Cryptome via email.
Reviews DSLReports allowed its users to submit reviews of their Internet service provider (ISP), Web hosting service, digital phone service (VOIP), and more.
Leenheer introduced the present scoring system as part of a major redesign of the test introduced in November 2013.
Each track is part of one out of three tiers (Category A, B, or C) which each its purchase and clearance costs.
The campaign involved an Unboxing during a Sky Dive and was nominated for the 2018 Webby Awards for the Best Influencer Endorsements category.
In September 2019, SuperSaf was one of the influencers that took part in the Alzheimer's Research UK #ShareTheOrange campaign to raise awareness about dementia.
Jon Lech Johansen, nicknamed DVDJon, was interviewed, regarding the DeCSS software that allowed for DVD discs to be played on the Linux Operating System, and allowed for development of duplicating software for DVD discs.
Their main reason for the change was to maintain their editorial independence and integrity without being too dependent on particular advertisers (for revenue) or particular investors.
In May 2000, CNET founded the Gamecenter Alliance network to bring Gamecenter and four partner websites, including Inside Mac Games, under one banner.
In 2024, UserBenchmark required a $10 per year fee to allow usage of the program during periods of high use.
The organization received a round of funding from the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation in October 2011.
Ask Ubuntu has received help from Canonical Ltd., which has allowed the site to use their trademark.
Activity resumed in 2016, but as of May 2021, the web site is no longer available; archives show the last posted article was in late 2017.
As UserBenchmark allows users to upload their hardware score results to the website, it makes it a source of unreleased hardware leaks.
Tom's Guide Tom's Guide (formerly known as GearDigest) is an online publication owned by Future that focuses on technology, with editorial teams in the US, UK and Australia.
A Windows version was released a few months later and the offer became available to the public in September 2014.
For example, Puzzling offers a platform for users who already know the answer to questions to challenge their peers to solve the problems unlike traditional Q–A sites where the poster does not know the answer.
Features Tweets from anyone mentioning particular pieces of software are also pulled in dynamically from Twitter.
It was founded by Canadian businessman Stan Flack in 2001 to "keep you up-to-date on everything that is going on in the world of Macintosh as soon as it happens".
This allows users to clear all music and purchase a license for official usage of the selected recording(s).
On April 20 the website received notice from its hosting company, Verio, that it would be evicted on May 4 for unspecified breaches of their acceptable use policy.
In 2020 Splice launched the inaugural Splice Awards, recognizing artists in multiple categories, including "Splice Producer of the Year", "Splice Breakout Artist of the Year", "Splice New Standard", "Best Use of Splice Sounds" and "Best Sound Design".
In September 2017, it was officially announced that Backchannel would become a weekly magazine on Wired.com.
The site also expanded overseas: initially to France, Germany and the United Kingdom; later to China, Australia, Hong Kong, Italy, Korea, Malaysia, Russia, Spain, Taiwan and India.
References External links Internet Archive - Archived website othercinemadvd channel, Mar 30, 2011 - So Wrong They're Right (video trailer)
In 2013, Vic Gundotra, a former senior vice president of Google, called Brownlee "the best technology reviewer on the planet right now".
History PortableApps.com started out as a Haller's personal website hosting a portable version of Mozilla Firefox in March 2004.
ITerating uses Semantic Web tools (including RDF - Resource Description Framework) to combine user edits with Web service feeds from other sites.
It was founded in April 2002 by Guillaume Champeau and was published by his company PressTIC until 2015, when it was bought by Humanoid.
Crunchbase Business, which provides additional team-oriented features including data export capabilities, CRM integration, and API access.
The operating revenue for DailyTech was primarily dependent on advertising, with syndication of their news feed also providing some revenue.
Content ZDNet operates a network of about 50 blogs loosely aligned by its major verticals: companies, hardware, software, mobile, security and IT research.
GitHub wanted to reduce reliance on third-party services and keep developers within the GitHub ecosystem.
The Wall Street Journal said it was unclear whether the Chinese government shut it down or its organizers did.
MacInTouch is a daily news and information website that provides independent coverage of Apple's Mac and iOS platforms, along with other topics such as security and privacy, networking, and technological innovation.
I'm putting macintouch.com on pause in an attempt to stem the rising costs..." References External links Official Website Archived 21 May 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Soon afterwards the site's mobile analyst Matthew "palmsolo" Miller left the site and started writing at ZDnet's Mobile Gadgeteer blog.
Heise.de identified the potential for the website to be a vehicle for blackmailing website operators with the threat of disclosing vulnerabilities if no bounty is paid, but reported that Open Bug Bounty prohibits this.
In August 2015, two former Kaspersky employees alleged that the company introduced modified files into the VirusTotal antivirus database to trick software from Kaspersky competitors into triggering false positives in virus and malware scans.
TNW (The Next Web) is a website and annual series of conferences focused on new technology and start-up companies in Europe.
Legal incidents JD and Jia Wei Jiayuan and Yuan Wei A white hat by the name of Yuan Wei ("YW") submitted an SQL vulnerability to Jiayuan.com in December 2015.
It was founded in April 2006 and primarily provides an incubator for ideas program for engineers, designers, business, and marketing participants who want to launch and develop their own high-technology ventures.
Slyck was a website that produced and aggregated file sharing news stories, as well as offering a forum for users.
History In early 2014, Ev Williams, founder of Medium, invited Stephen from Wired to start a tech column on Medium, Backchannel.
The Portland Pattern Repository (PPR) is an online repository for computer programming software design patterns.
It has editorial teams in the United States, United Kingdom, and Australia that provide news and reviews of tech products and gadgets.
His primary focus was DSLR and mirrored cameras but he later moved into reviewing and comparing smartphones and other technology.
In November 2013, AOL entered into a dispute with startup Pro Populi over the company's use of the entire Crunchbase dataset in apps that Pro Populi developed, despite having distributed the data under the Creative Commons CC-BY attribution license.
In May 2011, SemiAccurate published a story on Apple dropping Intel from its laptop line within a few years.
In 2016, Splice introduced Rent-To-Own, which allowed users to pay a monthly fee to access premium products like synths.
The PPR is accompanied, on c2.com, by the first ever wiki, a collection of reader-modifiable Web pages, which is named WikiWikiWeb.
On November 17, 2014, BuzzFeed editor-in-chief Ben Smith reported that Uber senior executive Emil Michael "outlined the notion of spending 'a million dollars'" to hire four top opposition researchers and four journalists.
As of 2023, Trusted Reviews is no longer owned by Incisive Media and is run independently as part of Trusted Reviews Limited.
GeekWire is an American technology news website that covers startups and established technology companies.
Some of those programmers attended the OOPSLA and PLoP conferences about object-oriented programming, and posted their ideas on the PPR.
The company was founded in 2012 as SDNCentral focused on Software Defined Network, and changed its name to SDxCentral in 2015 to reflect its broadened focused on all emerging infrastructure technologies.
As of September 2015, "Stack Exchange" no longer refers to the company, only the network of question-and-answer websites.
On September 1 Cryptome published the unredacted United States diplomatic cables leak a day before Wikileaks.
Community DSLReports operated over 200 forums, many of which focused on Internet and computer-related topics.
Miscellaneous In May 2016, an unprecedented series of very large data breaches that dated back several years were all released in a short timespan.
At this time, it broadened its remit to also cover alternative platforms and new technologies, while still keeping abreast of the RISC OS scene.
Hacker News (HN) is an American social news website focusing on computer science and entrepreneurship.
Splice raised an additional $4.5 in funding from a Series A round led by True Ventures with participation from Scooter Braun, Tiësto, Steve Angello, AM Only, WME, Plus Eight Equity Fund LP and existing investors including Union Square Ventures in 2014.
These portable applications are intended to be used from removable storage devices such as USB flash drives.
See also Online memorial References Further reading https://tgdaily.com/web/digital-memorials-the-rise-of-virtual-funerals-and-online-tributes/
The results of the research project were transmitted to biological scientists in order to finish the screening of the computational simulations.
Champeau moved to Canada after qualifying as a lawyer, but later chose to leave the law and remained the site's editor-in-chief until 2016.
It has been selected for inclusion by editors in at least one web directory, Content The site features RISC OS articles, news, forums and other media.
Ward created the Portland Pattern Repository on c2.com as a means to help object-oriented programmers publish their computer programming patterns by submitting them to him.
Features UserBenchmark is a website which offers a benchmarking program to run on the user's PC and then allows them to upload the results on the website.
It ridicules secular and religious credulity, and lampoons the exaggerated religious "enthusiasm" (excessive emotion, not keenness) of the Methodist movement.
A transhumanist must safeguard value in the universe—so long as one's actions do not conflict with the First and Second Laws.
5, Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel ceiling paintings, etc., as a separate and central artistic contribution.
In a final ironic flourish, Swift warns that if Christianity were abolished, the stock market would fall, costing Great Britain more than the country had ever spent for Christianity's preservation, and that there would be no reason to lose that much money merely for the sake of destroying the faith.
The page was subsequently unblocked, with a Facebook spokesperson saying in an email to the Observer that "the pages were removed in error and restored as soon as we were able to investigate." References External links Official website
Features The FAQs and FRAs (Frequently Rebutted Assertions) on the TalkOrigins Archive cover a wide range of topics associated with evolutionary biology and creationism.
Boghossian was Chairman of the Prison Advisory Committee for the Columbia River Correctional Institution.
Newspapers in England and elsewhere accepted the timeline of events offered by the Second Spanish Republic at face value.
The content of the Traité has been traced primarily to Spinoza, but with subsequent additions drawn from the ideas of Pierre Charron, Thomas Hobbes, François de La Mothe Le Vayer, Gabriel Naudé and Lucilio Vanini.
World Three, Popper argued, was the product of individual human beings in exactly the same sense that an animal path in the jungle is the creation of many individual animals but not planned or intended by any of them.
Bibliography Ackerman, Galia, with Anna Hutsol, Oksana Shachko, Alexandra 'Sasha' Shevchenko, & Inna Shevchenko, FEMEN, Published by Calmann-Lévy (Paris 2013), 280 pages.
The British Centre for Science Education (BCSE) is a volunteer-run organization in the United Kingdom that has the goal of "countering creationism within the UK" and was formed to campaign against the teaching of creationism in schools.
It allowed me to realize my decades-old dream of making a film about the Thirty Years' War and its endless atrocities without needing a budget of millions of dollars to depict the war's bloody significance.
With sections on evolution, creationism, geology, astronomy and hominid evolution, the web site provides broad coverage of evolutionary biology and the socio-political antievolution movement.
The Chandogya Upanishad (3.16) states that the Purushamedha is actually a metaphor for life itself, and it compares the various stages of life to the oblations that are offered.
"There Is Power in a Union" was first published in the Little Red Songbook in 1913, and has been recorded several times.
In support of this he has quoted hers article: "Whence, then, the Gospels, the life of Jesus of Nazareth?
In November 2021, the South Korean NIS reported that the North Korean government has begun using the term Kimjongunism, in an effort to establish an independent ideological system centered on Kim.
According to a February 2020 poll, 53% of people in France support Mila and half of them are in favor of a right of blasphemy (half being against), which was seen as surprisingly low.
After his sailing trip, Knights suffers a devastating personal tragedy at the hands of Christian fundamentalists.
While Christianity is currently the predominant religion in North America, Latin America, and Europe, the religion is declining in many of these areas, particularly in Western Europe, the United States, Australia, and New Zealand.
Promotion On September 9, 2009, Strange Music released a video on its YouTube account showing Yates regarding to his upcoming music video for "Show Me a God", stating that it would be a very serious video dedicated to his mother.
Since 2014, the band has been following a quarterly release schedule, producing a new studio album about every three months by releasing double singles bi-weekly.
The first one, who threatened her to "do her a Samuel Paty" if she tells him where she lives, received a suspended prison sentence of two years.
Throughout the occupation, it was German policy to plunder France, and food shortages were always a major problem as the majority of food from the French countryside went to Germany.
The song ends with a plea to protect children from the crusade-waging "bigots and bully boys / Slugging it out in the yard." "Leaving Beirut" The second track of the single runs at 12 minutes and 29 seconds.
The furore came to be known as the "'More popular than Jesus' controversy" or the "Jesus controversy".
Personal life Edwin Kagin was born in Greenville, South Carolina, to a Presbyterian minister father who had been born in Kentucky and a Daughters of the American Revolution mother who had been born in South Carolina.
However, he stood against the persecution of homosexuals by Castro's government, which he compared to Nazi persecution of the Jews, and said: "In Cuba there are no Jews, but there are homosexuals".
To the right, the "scale of vociferation" measures his oratory, rising from "natural tone" to "bull roar".
The newspaper was notable for its anti-religious view, regarding Christian beliefs with harsh skepticism.
Gavin scolds Lucetti for focusing too much on the pain of his wife's betrayal instead of the love that motivated her.
The song purports to be a response to the Second Vatican Council, a meeting that proposed reforms to the Catholic Church.
A spoken introduction describes the song as a response to the "Vatican II" council—which, among other things, broadened the range of music that could be used in services—and humorously proposes this rag as a more accessible alternative to traditional liturgical music.
At the age of seven, Goldman moved with her family to the Prussian city of Königsberg (then part of the German Empire), and she was enrolled in a Realschule.
Gavin points out that a Chinese child who dies in a traffic accident might never even know about Jesus, and therefore has no chance to be born again.
This would also imply that sentences like the negation of 'God exists' or 'God does not exist' are likewise meaningless, i.e., neither true nor false.
However, Theodore Drange distinguishes noncognitivism and agnosticism, describing the latter as accepting that theological language is meaningful but being noncommittal about its truth or falsity on the grounds of insufficient evidence.
Personal life Sandstedt married Charlotta ("Lotten") Sofia Wilhelmina Widell (6 April 1861, Rasbokil parish, Uppsala County – 25 October 1943) on 9 July 1881.
Internet phenomenon As word of Henderson's challenge to the board spread, his website and cause received more attention and support.
The Dude De Ching is a reinterpretation of Peter Merel's translation of the Tao Te Ching using dialogue and story elements from The Big Lebowski.
The lyrics open with the image of a child sleeping "in the glow of [a] Donald Duck light", a reference to Waters' prior song "The Tide Is Turning." Waters goes on to ask why a culture whose primary concerns are luxury, consumption and petty values would "kill the child".
Only A Game, Saturday, July 11, 2009 - Discussion of Dudeism and brief audio interview with Oliver Benjamin on NPR's Only A Game - at 46:11 Dude Awakening - Sunday Herald article featuring Dudeism
Falk (16 August 2009 – January 2013) Deborah Haarsma (January 2013 – March 2025) Kristine Torjesen (March 2025 – present) During the COVID-19 pandemic, BioLogos sponsored livestream events featuring the NIH director and BioLogos founder Francis Collins.
Lastly, the Quote Mine Project examines the use of Quote mining – taking quotes out of context – by creationists.
In 1995, Vickers, then a computer science graduate student at the University of California at Irvine, created the TalkOrigins Archive web site.
Philipse's Atheïstisch manifest got him into a fierce argument with several theologians, including Eginhard Meijering, Vincent Brümmer and Harry Kuitert, who replied to him disapprovingly, and eventually faced him in a debate on "the tenability of atheism" in the spring of 1996.
The Roman Catholic Church has witnessed the highest retention rate among all Christian denominations.
However, if one wished to define the word 'God' as something unknowable, God cannot have any descriptive contents and therefore not exist.
Falun Gong On July 20, 1999, the Chinese government, led by Jiang Zemin from 1989 to 2002, commenced the persecution of Falun Gong.
It was originally released as a free download on iTunes but was subsequently released as a promotional 7" vinyl and as a B-side to "First Day of My Life".
A poor Jew suddenly appeared who convinced an ignorant following that he was the Son of God, and who was eventually executed by other Jews.
The man continuously gorges on food until finally his belly explodes, his innards splattering all over the room.
The Royal Commission into Institutional Responses to Child Sexual Abuse revealed that between January 1950 and February 2015, 4,445 people alleged incidents of child sexual abuse in 4,765 claims.
History The channel was founded in Cyprus in 2003 by Al Hayat Ministries, an evangelical organization.
Director James McTeigue first met Natalie Portman during the filming of Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones, on which he worked as assistant director.
In The Moral Landscape, he argues that science can in principle answer moral questions and help maximize well-being.
doll heads dripping blood and crying to orbiting paper roses, flashes of heat lightning, close ups of lion fur and mane, carousels spinning, lots of eyeballs crying and blinking, and crucifixes".
The Wesleyan Methodist Connection was organized in 1843, largely by those coming out of the Methodist Episcopal Church; grew to some 15,000 members.
And thus the modern spirit has been torn loose from the deepest and strongest supports of its life, from its foundation in the Absolute, in the self-existent Being, in the Value of all values...
The Industrial Workers of the World (commonly known as the Wobblies) concentrated much of its labor trying to organize migrant workers in lumber and construction camps.
He told his boss it was "the most moral record ever made." KMPC in Los Angeles played the record, but some advertisers required that their ads be scheduled more than fifteen minutes away from it.
"Hitchens," noted The Progressive, published his usual stack of important books during the course of 2001.
Corey Taylor sings from the perspective of a man who was sexually abused by a priest when he was a child and now confronts his abuser.
In 2010, two Tibetan laypeople were killed while trying to stop a mass arrest of approximately 300 monks at Kirti Monastery.
He emphasizes the need for a rational framework in religious thought, advocating for doctrines that align with reason and moral clarity.
Ron Hubbard Exposed (1990) by Jon Atack A Queer and Pleasant Danger: A Memoir (2012) by Kate Bornstein ISBN 9780807001653,OL 25139468M Religion Inc.
On 31 October 2011, they demonstrated dressed as French maids in Paris against Dominique Strauss-Kahn, on 5 November 2011, they protested against Silvio Berlusconi in Rome, the following day, they protested against Pope Benedict XVI outside St.
Critique of philosophy and religion In a series of historical works written in the 1830s, Feuerbach developed his own philosophical positions through a critique of other philosophers, a method he called "genetic analysis".
Rather, it is recommended as an essential principle of methodology that, if enacted by a system or community, will lead to slow but steady progress of a sort (relative to how well the system or community enacts the method).
She was vilified in the press as the "high priestess of anarchy", while many newspapers declared the anarchist movement responsible for the murder.
Talk Reason provides a forum for the publication of papers against creationism and intelligent design.
Since Euthyphro seems so assured of himself, and Socrates is facing a trial for impiety, Socrates asks Euthyphro to help him with a definition of "piety" that he can use in his defence.
"Sinner" is a song by American rock band Drowning Pool, released in August 2002 as the third and final single from their debut album of the same name.
The film received generally positive reviews from critics, and grossed $57.3 million on a $13–18 million budget.
Ousby wrote: "But, in however humble a fashion, everyone still had to decide how they were going to cope with life in a fragmenting society ...
In his first religiously critical work, Holbach points out aspects of the Christian faith that he considers contradictory, and particularly criticizes the moral and political influence of the Christian religion and its clergy in harsh terms.
Among Lennon's many possessions, Cleave found a full-sized crucifix, a gorilla costume, a medieval suit of armour, and a well-organised library containing works by Alfred, Lord Tennyson, Jonathan Swift, Oscar Wilde, George Orwell, and Aldous Huxley.
In November 2000, a modern version of Purushamedha was organised by All World Gayatri Pariwar at Shantikunja Haridvara, marking the completion of 12 year Yugsandhi Mahapurascharana.
Christian polemical writing at the time took an "unusually severe attitude" toward Islam, condemning whatever Muslims believed, even when it was partially correct according to Christian teaching.
Ian Dury's version It was recorded by Ian Dury, originally on the soundtrack album Apples (1989) and later on The Bus Driver's Prayer & Other Stories (1992).
Ian Cohen of Pitchfork described the song as "a staggering duality of childish innocence and poetic confidence" and an "impossibly catchy song that skips along while carrying the weight of the universe" and awarded it Best New Track.
The American Baptist Anti-Slavery Convention in 1840 brought the issue to the fore, defining a split among Baptists.
The full fifteen-minute pitch demo remained lost until it was uploaded to the internet by Robert Paulson on his personal website in 2022.
External links Media related to Intolerance at Wikimedia Commons The full text of Intolerance at Wikisource Intolerance at IMDb Intolerance is available for free viewing and download at the Internet Archive Intolerance on YouTube Intolerance at the AFI Catalog of Feature Films
The music video was filmed for the single "Leave Me Alone" which it was exclusively premiered on mtvU.com on October 27, 2009, in which was the album's original release date.
Jews believe the Messiah will be a direct (blood) descendant of King David through Solomon on his father's side and will be born naturally to a husband and wife (Genesis 49:10, Isaiah 11:1, Jeremiah 23:5, 33:17; Ezekiel 34:23–24).
Finch asks who V was, and Evey replies, "He was all of us." Cast Hugo Weaving as V, a masked, charismatic and skilled anarchist terrorist who had been the unwilling subject of experimentation by Norsefire.
The Sydney Morning Herald named Family Guy the "Show of the Week" on April 21, 2009, hailing it a "pop culture-heavy masterpiece".
The same study found a retention rate among American Christians closer to 67%, with one-third of those who were Christian in childhood leaving the religion by age 30.
James McDonald is a British mathematician, etymologist, historian, theologian and non-fiction writer.
On January 27, 1994, Huang Fangxin was arrested and labeled a "ringleader of an illegal religious organization" due to his involvement in "illegal religious" activities, which included organizing a gospel team.
This is a plausible reason to include it in the list of Kali-varjyas, even if it was a purely symbolic ceremony during the period of the composition of the Śatapatha Brāhmaṇa.
[...] Anyone concerned with film history has to see Intolerance, and pass on." The film has been widely reported to have been a box office bomb, but this is a myth attributed to its misreported budget.
Socrates is awaiting a preliminary hearing for his trial for impiety, which is being prosecuted by Meletus.
A shoeblack vomits nails and pins – according to John Ireland possibly a reference to the boy of Bilson, who ate metal items and spat them out to be considered bewitched.
In Protagoras, Socrates argues for the unity of virtues using the example of courage: if someone knows what the relevant danger is, they can undertake a risk.
The Village Voice's Joy Press, reviewing the book alongside Martin Amis's The War Against Cliché also tendered tempered praise: Letters shows Hitchens's best and worst sides.
"Ya Hey" is a song by American indie pop band Vampire Weekend, taken from their third studio album Modern Vampires of the City.
"Swimming in Your Ocean" is a song by Canadian folk-rock group Crash Test Dummies and was the second single from their 1993 album God Shuffled His Feet.
When Goldman was released after ten months, a raucous crowd of nearly 3,000 people greeted her at the Thalia Theater in New York City.
They initially protested about issues affecting female students, but rapidly moved on to demonstrating against the sexual exploitation of Ukrainian women.
Regarding the making of music video, Dave Williams said "They rained on us for four hours straight and it was cold, man.
In 2007, Collins founded the BioLogos Foundation to "contribute to the public voice that represents the harmony of science and faith." He served as the foundation's president until he was confirmed as director of the NIH.
The Talmud indicates that Rabbi Gamaliel II directed Samuel ha-Katan to write another paragraph for the central Amidah-prayer, inveighing against (early Christian) informers and heretics, which was inserted as the twelfth paragraph in modern sequence (Birkat haMinim).
Studies of this kind may be regarded a special kind of reception history (how Watson's paper was received).
In 1956, the organization sued to attempt to remove the "under god" from the Pledge of Allegiance, which had been added the year before.
Atheïstisch manifest: drie wijsgerige opstellen over godsdienst en moraal ("Atheist Manifesto: Three Philosophical Essays on Religion and Morality") is an essay bundle by the Dutch philosopher Herman Philipse.
Against David's advice, bagger Norm starts to go outside to fix the store's emergency generator, but he is grabbed by a tentacled creature and dragged into the mist.
While Christianity remains the dominant religion, the region has experienced a significant decline in the proportion of Catholics, a surge in Evangelical and Pentecostal movements, and a notable rise in the non-religious population.
According to his publishers his book Beyond Belief took over 20 years of research, including an overland expedition from Europe to South and Central Asia, retracing the journeys of Alexander the Great, Robert Byron and Eric Newby.
Trying to solve it by changing or managing these industries better might fail, since it essentially acknowledges this imaginary as real, thus perpetuating the problem.
In Vedanta and the Puranas Human sacrifice and cannibalism are explicitly condemned in the Bhagavata Purana (5.26.31).
Garrison's newspaper, The Liberator, served to spread his view of abolition and anti-institutionalism.
Family On 25 July 2012, North Korean state media reported for the first time that Kim Jong Un was married to Ri Sol Ju.
In 2008, Henderson interpreted the growing pirate activities at the Gulf of Aden as additional support, pointing out that Somalia has "the highest number of pirates and the lowest carbon emissions of any country".
This chapter covers Jesus' approach to politics, social issues, family, personal conduct, and cosmic concerns.
Billy Bragg reused the title for his 1986 song "There Is Power in a Union" on the Talking with the Taxman About Poetry album, which is set to the tune of "Battle Cry of Freedom".
He said that it was "no coincidence" that Paul Williams, then a seventeen-year-old Swarthmore College student, launched Crawdaddy!
The Catholic biblical critique asserts that the Sola scriptura principle of Lutheran and Reformed churches is inaccurate according to the Catholic doctrine.
He is the châtelain of the Château Saint-Ferriol, a late medieval - early Renaissance castle, in the village and commune of Saint-Ferriol, in the Aude département in the South of France which is listed as a Monument Historique by the French Government.
In the debate, both sides and even courts in their decisions have invoked Popper's criterion of falsifiability (see Daubert standard).
Come-outer is a phrase coined in the 1830s which denotes a person who withdraws from an established organization or who advocates political reform.
EXMNA provides emergency support and grants to ex-Muslims in dire times – from escaping abuse to finding shelter and professional assistance.
In the 2015 local elections, the DN lost the seat in Tardajos but gained a new town councillor in Cuenca de Campos, which it lost in 2019.
After an investigation, Portland State University restricted Boghossian's future work on the basis of research misconduct.
Lyrics and style In popular culture A version of the song (with altered lyrics) is used in the Wasteland 3 DLC The Battle of Steeltown (2021).
Grenzfurthner says that Razzennest forms a trilogy with Masking Threshold (2021) and Solvent (2024).
The party was a founding member of the far-right European political party, the Alliance for Peace and Freedom, which was founded in 2015 with other members including Forza Nuova and the National Democratic Party of Germany.
According to Silvia Berti, the book was originally published as La Vie et L'Esprit de Spinosa (The Life and Spirit of Spinoza), containing both a biography of Benedict Spinoza and the anti-religious essay, and was later republished under the title Traité sur les trois imposteurs.
The Boston Investigator was the first American newspaper dedicated to the philosophy of freethought.
Swift then addresses the argument that the Church, then supported by government funds, was a drain on resources that might be better spent elsewhere.
However, according to Jan Houben, the actual occurrence of human sacrifice would be difficult to prove since the relevant pieces of evidence would be small in number.
Has it not been repeatedly stated that no human, mortal brain could have invented the life of the Jewish Reformer, followed by the awful drama on Calvary?
In San Francisco, Christina has worked at the underground book publisher Last Gasp and the Lusty Lady peep show, and has performed in pornography.
The album entered at number 14 on the US Billboard 200 chart, selling 30,326 copies in its first week.
She was a speaker on the Diversity in Skepticism panel at The Amaz!ng Meeting in July 2011, the Reason Rally in 2012, and the 50th annual convention of American Atheists in 2013.
The song reached number six in Canada and topped the Canadian Adult Contemporary chart for three weeks.
Justin Chang of Variety also had mixed feelings, stating that The Mist worked as a "gross-out B-movie", falling short in its psychological depth due to "one-note characterizations" and an inconsistent tone.
Music video The music video features Crash Test Dummies as a lounge band performing to a group of old women.
It is modelled on the National Rally (RN) of France, and grew indirectly out of several defunct parties like the Spanish Circle of Friends of Europe (CEDADE) group and Juntas Españolas.
Chesney then recorded his own version of the song, and released it as the first single from his studio album Lucky Old Sun, his first project for his personal Blue Chair label (in association with BNA Records, the label to which he has been signed since 1995).
Vincent Millay, novelist Theodore Dreiser and art collector Peggy Guggenheim, who raised $4,000 for her.
Although Strait's version did not make the album's final cut, he nonetheless made his own rendition available as a digital download.
A given source may be forged or corrupted; strong indications of the originality of the source increases its reliability.
First, he responds to the argument that the abolition of Christianity would expand the liberty of conscience by arguing that if great wits could not denounce the Church, they might instead turn to the denunciation of the government, causing political unrest.
"I'm Not Jesus" is a song by the Finnish cello metal band Apocalyptica, featuring Corey Taylor from Slipknot and Stone Sour.
It was shot in and around an abandoned Los Angeles motel called the Pink Lady, was inspired by the David Fincher film Seven.
In this context, he advocates for applying value judgments in religious studies, drawing on a methodology similar to that of Ibn Hazm.
What do you know about the hundreds of suicide bombers who came here not to kill the occupation, but to kill Jews?
Riahi and Arman Riahi, Austria / Switzerland / Germany, 2013, world premiere at Copenhagen International Documentary Festival on 13 November 2013.
It was given a further digital restoration by Cohen Media Group (which currently serves as keeper of the Rohauer library, and is the copyright holder on this restored version), and was reissued to select theatres, as well as on DVD and Blu-ray, in 2013.
After a court order favored their suit in early 1926, later that year, the society instituted injunction proceedings against the Board of Education of White Plains, New York over the decision of Supreme Court Justice Ellis J.
Between 2017 and 2018, at least 4,820 Tibetan and Han Chinese monks and nuns were removed from Larung Gar, and over 7,000 dwellings and other structures were demolished, which began in 2001.
The hashtag #JenesuispasMila ("I am not Mila") was widely used, along with the #JesuisMila ("I am Mila") one.
The B-side, "Anyway You Look at It", is a ballad and appears on the compilation Rarities 1971–2003, released in 2005.
Legacy Feuerbach's critique of religion and Hegelianism had a profound and immediate impact on his contemporaries.
On October 7, 2009, a second version of this video has also appeared on the label's account, except this one is in high definition.
Harris (1979) provides a case study of how a famous experiment in psychology, Little Albert, has been distorted throughout the history of psychology, starting with the author (Watson) himself, general textbook authors, behavior therapists, and a prominent learning theorist.
This is a set of non-confrontational conversational techniques for discussing a strongly-held belief, designed to promote thoughtful reflection and open-mindedness in a participant regarding the belief.
represents a unique danger to all of us", arguing that the war on terror is really a war against Islam.
The Bus Driver's Prayer, also known as the Busman's Lord's Prayer, is a parody of the Lord's Prayer that takes the bus driver around Greater London (while avoiding further destinations).
An account based on the testimony of the brother of the publisher Caspar Fritsch, an associate of Marchand, has Levier in 1711 borrowing the original text from Benjamin Furly.
He has travelled in Central Asia and Southern Asia, researching Zoroastrianism and other ancient religions.
The video also includes various film shots of children in torn/old clothes, and behind fences or various other objects.
It reached number 26 in the UK and number 94 in the US, where it also reached number 13 on Billboard's Mainstream Rock Tracks.
Stereogum described it as "an instructional auto-tuning paean to Mama Nature", stating that it "offers some supreme springtime anthemics" and that "the vocal effects take a little getting used to, though almost immediately they do make it all the easier to dance".
Ron Zanski (two shows in 1993) and Allen Muckle (three shows in 2001) have also played with the band.
In territorial politics, it defends the unity of Spain, is staunchly nationalist and opposes Catalan independence.
Fabrications of the text eventually begin clandestine circulation, with a notable French underground edition Traité sur les trois imposteurs first appearing in 1719.
The writers noted that the site primarily highlights controversial aspects of Islamic texts and teachings and, while occasionally presenting differing traditional scholarly opinions, fails to adequately represent contemporary Muslim scholarship or progressive interpretations of controversial issues.
"I thought the message of anarchy got out in spite of Hollywood." However, Graeber went on to state: "Anarchy is about creating communities and democratic decision making.
However, the mail Freberg received from the public, including rabbis and Christian clergy, was overwhelmingly positive.
Similarly, Robert Wood, the station manager of KNXT-TV in Los Angeles (later president of CBS), cancelled a TV interview with Freberg because the record was "sacrilegious" and he did not need to hear it because he had read about it.
Its programs are much debated and sometimes the subject of angry criticism from Muslims who claim that Alhayat's content is biased and inaccurate.
In philosophy, skeptical theism is a defense of theistic or agnostic positions argued to undercut a crucial premise in atheological arguments from evil, a claim that God could have no good reasons for allowing certain types of evil.
When the project was greenlit, Nicotero, Burrell, and Darabont collaborated on the creature design at round-table meetings at CaféFX.
Murray Gordon characterizes Muhammad's approach to slavery as reformist rather than revolutionary that abolish slavery, but rather improved the conditions of slaves by urging his followers to treat their slaves humanely and free them as a way of expiating one's sins.
Simon Singh reviewing The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster for The Daily Telegraph described the Flying Spaghetti Monster as "a masterstroke, which underlined the absurdity of Intelligent Design", and applauded Henderson for "galvanis[ing] a defence of science and rationality".
Antony Clayton, "Credulity, Superstition and Fanaticism: who believed in ghosts in Hogarth’s England?" Satires of William Hogarth: EGL 310 "William Hogarth – The Medley", La Clé des Langues (en ligne), Lyon, June 2013
Judaism affirms that Jesus did not fulfill the messianic prophecies by ushering in an era of universal peace (Isaiah 2:4), building the Third Temple (Ezekiel 37:26–28), and gathering all Jews back to the Land of Israel (Isaiah 43:5–6).
Sources of criticism Historically, certain notable Catholic works were written as a criticism of a Protestant work.
The War Against Cliché is a motley heap of literary judgments that nevertheless offers us a peek at the evolution of Martin Amis.
Daniel emphasizes that for much of the medieval period, Christian understanding of Islam was based more on inherited stereotypes and polemical tradition than on direct engagement with Muslim sources.
Transhumania successfully defends itself, and Knights attempts to establish a transhuman-inspired civilization.
Reception In The New York Times Book Review, which compared Hitchens's efforts favourably with those of Alan Dershowitz (whose Letters to a Young Lawyer opened the series alongside them), Alexander Star offered a generally friendly critique.
Boghossian and Lindsay stated that they intended to demonstrate that "gender studies is crippled academically by an overriding almost-religious belief that maleness is the root of all evil", and also to highlight problems with the review processes of open-access journals.
Lyrically, the song mentions various people in history who had converted to Christianity, notably St.
The TalkOrigins Archive is a website that presents scientific perspectives on the antievolution claims of young-earth, old-earth, and "intelligent design" creationists.
It may be considered synonymous with ignosticism (also called igtheism), a term coined in 1964 by Sherwin Wine, a rabbi and a founding figure of Humanistic Judaism.
Блуждание во тьме: основные положения псевдотеософии Елены Блаватской, Генри Олькотта, Анни Безант и Чарльза Ледбитера [Wandering in the Dark: The Fundamentals of the Pseudo-theosophy by Helena Blavatsky, Henry Olcott, Annie Besant, and Charles Leadbeater] (in Russian).
Al-Azhar expressed concerns over the broadcasting of Alhayat TV, saying that the Coptic channel was offensive to Muslims and Islam.
Alhayat TV, also known as Life TV (Arabic: قناة الحياة), is an evangelical Christian Arabic-language television channel that airs in countries in North Africa, West Asia, the Middle East, America, Canada, Australia and some of Europe.
"To Kill the Child"/"Leaving Beirut" is a 2004 digital download and a Japan-only CD single written and performed by Roger Waters.
Collins has also spoken at the Veritas Forum on the relationship between science and religion and the existence of God.
He wrote that "the famous proponent of New Atheism is on a crusade against tribalism but seems oblivious to his own version of it".
On 16 November 2012 Hutsol was detained by the Federal Security Service (FSB) of the Russian Federation at Pulkovo Airport in Saint Petersburg as a person barred from entering Russia.
Winter Fads and Fallacies in the Name of Science (1952, 1957) by Martin Gardner Fair Game: The Incredible Untold Story of Scientology in Australia (2016) by Steve Cannane.
Arnold – vocals Nick Griffiths – producer, engineer See also List of anti-war songs == References ==
External links Euthyphro, in a collection of Plato's Dialogues at Standard Ebooks Euthyphro public domain audiobook at LibriVox Guides to the Socratic Dialogues, a beginner's guide
Enlightenment and Critique 16, 1 (2009): 180–199, ISSN 0945-6627 Denis Lecompte: Baron d’Holbach and Karl Marx: From Anti-Christianity to a Primary and Radical Atheism, pp.
He said, "You might think this is some sort of a gag or prank by a college student, but thousands, including myself, see it as a political and religious milestone for all atheists everywhere".
Lindsay and Helen Pluckrose, which entailed submitting bogus papers to academic journals related to gender studies and other fields in order to test peer-reviews.
Plot Protagonist Jethro Knights studies philosophy and sails around the world to promote indefinite life extension, desiring to live eternally through medicine, science, and technology.
From 2009, it was understood by foreign diplomatic services that Kim was to succeed his father Kim Jong Il as the head of the Korean Workers' Party and de facto leader of North Korea.
Composition and performances In the early 1960s Lehrer wrote satiric topical songs for the US version of the television show That Was the Week That Was.
He was a founding member in 1991 of the Free Inquiry Group, Inc., (FIG) of Greater Cincinnati and Northern Kentucky and served as its vice president.
Track listing "When the President Talks to God" (Conor Oberst) – 2:36 See also List of anti-war songs == References ==
During these difficult years, Feuerbach met and married Bertha Löw in 1837; she was part-owner of a family porcelain factory in Bruckberg.
Rebecca Hensler founded the social media and internet support group 'Grief Beyond Belief' for grieving people who do not believe in God or an afterlife in 2011; she was encouraged to found it by Christina.
They believe that reliance on the Hadith has caused people to deviate from the original intent of God's revelation to Muhammad, which they see as adherence to the Quran alone.
Written by Benjamin and the Arch Dudeship Dwayne Eutsey, it also contains material by other members of The Church of the Latter-Day Dude.
Lyrics The song caused mild controversy when released because of its assertion that Pope Pius XII collaborated with the Nazis: "Oh Pope he got the Nazis, To clean up their messes, In exchange for gold and paintings, he gave them new addresses".
only to find that the message was lost on listeners yet again." Bianca, retrospectively discussing its release, stated “I thought we were super heavy-handed...
Hutsol requested for asylum in Switzerland in 2013, but the authorities rejected her request on 27 March 2014.
There have been two main lines of thought regarding this view, depending on whether it is accepted that Socrates is seeking to prove a claim wrong.
Castoriadis developed an interest in politics after he came into contact with Marxist thought at the age of 13.
Lead us not into Thames Ditton but deliver us from Ewell For thine is the Kingston, the Tower and the Hornsey, For Epsom and Esher, Amen Corner See also List of songs about London Word play Puns Place name origins Notes External links "A Bus Driver's Prayer - The Song".
Theological noncognitivism is the non-theist position that religious language, particularly theological terminology such as 'God', is not intelligible or meaningful, and thus sentences like 'God exists' are cognitively meaningless.
Fundamentalist Christian critics of Lennon's lyrics have focused on the opening line from his 1971 song "Imagine", which states, "Imagine there's no heaven." Lennon was murdered on 8 December 1980 by Mark David Chapman, a disillusioned Christian and former Beatles fan.
He critiques the Christian view of sin as a universal and necessary phenomenon, suggesting it was a later development that Jesus did not originally teach.
Swift then counters the argument that abolishing Christianity would remove arbitrary sectarian distinctions between Whig and Tory, high church and low church, etc.
The single was released on September 17, 2007, and again on March 4, 2008, on the album Worlds Collide.
Meanwhile, in America, transhumanists are being targeted and killed by Christian terrorists in cahoots with the popular anti-transhumanist Reverend Belinas.
There is a dialogue in Xenophon's work in which Aristippus claims he wants to live without wishing to rule or be ruled by others.
Barnes confirmed he had argued with Lewis over Lewis' annual statement denouncing Yom Kippur, but had not resigned.
Zakaria Botros, a Coptic Orthodox Egyptian-born priest who was twice arrested by Arab authorities, is often cited for his bold tone and exposition of contradictions he perceives in Islam.
Draper's skeptical theism In the philosophy of religion, skeptical theism is the position that we should be skeptical of our ability to assess God's motivations or lack of motivation from our perceptions of the circumstances we observe in the world.
Faith has only been elevated to virtue to prevent reason-based thinking and maintain trust in Christian officials.
On October 20, 2009, "Leave Me Alone" and "Show Me a God" was officially released as the first and second digital singles.
Between 1954 and 2020, only four English-language scholarly monographs have been published about Scientology (Wallis 1977 [1976]; Whitehead 1987; Urban 2011; Westbrook 2019).
October 2010: A Society Adrift: More Interviews and Discussions on The Rising Tide of Insignificancy, Including Revolutionary Perspectives Today.) "The Dilapidation of the West: An Interview with Cornelius Castoriadis" (trans.
Kuhn proclaimed: "The matter of the existence or non-existence of a certain man in human history is not dual in nature.
They start their dialogue by investigating parental love and how it manifests with respect to the freedom and boundaries that parents set for their children.
The track has been described as art pop, downtempo, electronic, rock, folk rock, indie rock, indietronica, and progressive pop.
It is also noteworthy that lyrics are often embedded with Scripture references for further exploration of the song's content.
[...] Given the political climate in the United States and other Western societies, the film is a necessary reflection on the undead legacy of murderous Christianity.
In 1936, Lewis denied that three honorary vice presidents had resigned, after the National Conference of Christians and Jews declared that Rupert Hughes, Clarence Darrow, and Harry Elmer Barnes had removed their names.
The "conspiracy theory of society" Popper criticized what he termed the "conspiracy theory of society", the view that powerful people or groups, godlike in their efficacy, are responsible for purposely bringing about all the ills of society.
Protestants also engage in self-criticism, a special target of which is the fragmentation of Protestant denominations.
He is buried at Solna Cemetery (Solna kyrkogård), grave plot SO 18:170, alongside his wife Lotten and daughter Anna Petronella.
Throughout, Hitchens makes reference to those dissenters who have inspired him over the years, including Émile Zola, Rosa Parks, George Orwell, Fulke Greville, 1st Baron Brooke, and Václav Havel.
Empire never tells us what to think or feel, a refreshing approach consistent with Grenzfurthner's own artistry." Release Razzennest had its world premiere on 29 September 2022 at Fantastic Fest as part of the Burnt Ends showcase.
In Xinjiang, the government has detained more than a million Uyghur Muslims in internment camps, destroyed or sinicized mosques, and suppressed Islamic religious practices such as fasting during Ramadan.
He describes Baptism as a "mystery impenetrable to reason, whose effectiveness has been empirically refuted," since sins are apparently still committed after baptism.
Moore said that the script contained plot holes and that it ran contrary to the theme of his original work, which was to place two political extremes (fascism and anarchism) against one another.
We had to start being so blatant about being feminist.” Bianca Casady has stated that the song is about women who wear the burqa and that the lyrics stem from Bianca's "being exhausted from thousands of years of a male image of god being foisted upon us.
Some radio stations stopped playing Beatles songs, records were publicly burned, press conferences were cancelled, and the Ku Klux Klan picketed concerts.
Socio-religious views Religion Harris is generally a critic of religion, and is considered a leading figure in the New Atheist movement.
Table of Contents Themes The book contributes to interfaith dialogue by offering a critical examination of Christianity from a Muslim perspective.
Mila responded by posting a video (available for 24 hours) on social media, stating that "there's nothing but hate in the Quran.
Hutsol wanted to seek representation for FEMEN in the Verkhovna Rada in January 2011; but FEMEN did not take part in the October 2012 Ukrainian parliamentary election.
In the chorus, the narrator responds saying that "Everybody wants to go to heaven / But nobody wants to go now".
It was announced that Mayor Joseph Wheless, attorney for the association, would handle the case, with aid offered by Clarence Darrow, Arthur Garfield Hays and Stephen B.
Much of the criticism of logical positivism claimed that positivism is the basis of the sciences, whereas hermeneutics is the basis of the humanities.
The BCSE protested when the prominent intelligent design group Truth in Science sent information packs to every UK secondary school in September 2006.
(1987, 1995) by Bent Corydon and Ronald DeWolf The Mind Benders (1971) by Cyril Vosper My Billion Year Contract: Memoir of a Former Scientologist (2009) by Nancy Many ISBN 0578039222,OL 25424752M The New Believers (2001) by David V.
In at least 12 out of the 29 European countries which were surveyed by the researchers, based on a sample of 629 people, the majority of young adults reported that they were not religious.
Presidents The foundation has been led by the following presidents: Francis Collins (founded 2007 – 16 August 2009; resigned to become 16th director of the National Institutes of Health) Darrel R.
In 2012, Philipse published a new and much more elaborate book, God in the Age of Science?, as an improvement on Atheïstisch manifest.
He said that the only problem with the song was the production, and that "the calypso trimmings used to be a distinctive trademark of Kenny Chesney records, but by now, they’re a crutch." Music video In August 2008, Chesney traveled to Jamaica to film the song's music video.
After a month or two, in late spring or early summer, the trial started and likely went on for most of one day.
Jackson on vocals, Keith Haynie on bass guitar, Jimmy "Vegas" Tanner on drums, Bill Hubauer and Chris VonBartheld on keyboard, and Tom Milnes and Tom Tincha (a.k.a.
Succession Pre-2010 Party Conference speculation Kim Jong Un's eldest half-brother, Kim Jong Nam, had been the favorite to succeed, but reportedly fell out of favor after 2001, when he was caught attempting to enter Japan on a fake passport to visit Tokyo Disneyland.
Though the book primarily consists of a loose narrative monologue by Lois, it is also interspersed with sections from other characters such as Peter Griffin.
It was the first single to be taken from their debut studio album It's Great When You're Straight...Yeah and peaked at #9 on the UK singles chart.
A turbaned Turk looks in at the window, quietly smoking a pipe, and thanks the prophet that he is a Muslim.
New Testament In September 1938, Sandstedt co-signed a petition to King Gustaf V together with two fellow religious writers: Erik Bjuggren, a retired military officer, and the mathematician Henrik Petrini.
However, Messianic Jewish organisations, which are not considered Jewish by any mainstream Jewish denomination, like Jews for Jesus have made the case that he is the Messiah promised by the Torah and the Prophets.
Book In June 2021, Mila published a book about the affair entitled Je suis le prix de votre liberté (I am the price of your liberty).
Timeline of the myth Traité sur les trois imposteurs, from 1719 The work that came to be known by this name was published in the early eighteenth century.
He had four children, Stephen, Eric, Heather, and Kathryn, a stepdaughter, Caroline, and five grandchildren at the time of his death.
Swift responds that if the funds used to support the clergy were used instead to fund freethinking young gentlemen, the money would, in short time, be squandered away on vices, and divided by disagreeable marriages.
Edwin Frederick Kagin (November 26, 1940 – March 28, 2014) was an attorney at law in Union, Kentucky, and a founder of Camp Quest, the first secular summer camp in the United States for the children of secularists, atheists, agnostics, brights, skeptics, naturalists and freethinkers.
This shift was significantly influenced by Feuerbach's intensive study of Martin Luther, which he undertook in the mid-1840s.
Jesus' disciples James and his brother John wanted to call down fire from heaven on the village but Jesus reprimanded them and they continued on to another village.
While some scholars claim Shari'a law encourages domestic violence against women, many Muslim scholars arguing that it acts as a deterrent against domestic violence motivated by rage.
"Saint of Me" is a song by English rock band the Rolling Stones, released as the third single from their 21st British and 23rd American studio album, Bridges to Babylon (1997).
He argued that no state of affairs we know of is such that an omnipotent, omniscient being's obtaining it would morally justify that being's permitting some instances of horrific suffering.
The central thesis of skeptical theism is that it would not be surprising for an infinitely intelligent and knowledgeable being's reasons for permitting evils to be beyond human comprehension.
Дискурсы эзотерики: философский анализ [Discourses of esoteric: philosophical analysis] (in Russian).
Most other critical works have come in the form of apostate memoirs: books written by ex-members about their experiences within the Church of Scientology (CoS).
On 9 February 2013, Shevchenko protested against female genital mutilation at the Berlin Film Festival, she had the words 'Stop Cutting my Pussy' written across her bare chest.
In particular, Discovery Institute fellow William Dembski has written disparagingly of the BCSE on his blog, Uncommon Descent.
An example given in the book is France and England during the Industrial Revolution, with the second being much more liberal than the first.
The sample "Would he agree that a stately minuet would be preferable to the rain dance" is taken from Sir Thomas Arnold asking a question of John Major in the House of Commons in 1994.
In his apartment, Joe tells Gavin that he previously had a wife and two kids, but he would leave them at night to score drugs and hookers and do all kinds of depraved things.
She has been writing professionally since 1989, and has been a full-time freelance writer and speaker since 2012.
The Dude and the Zen Master, a 2013 book by Jeff Bridges and Buddhist teacher Bernie Glassman, uses the character as a starting point for philosophical discussion.
He came to prominence for his criticism of religion (Islam in particular) and he is described as one of the Four Horsemen of Atheism, along with Richard Dawkins, Christopher Hitchens, and Daniel Dennett.
References External links Media related to Greta Christina at Wikimedia Commons Greta Christina's Blog at The Orbit Greta Christina on X "Why Are You Atheists So Angry?
Despite their similarities as polemicists, novelists, adapters, and playwrights, Sartre's literary work has been counterposed, often pejoratively, to that of Camus in the popular imagination.
Demento Presents the Greatest Christmas Novelty CD of All Time (1989), as well as several compilations of Freberg's output released by Capitol, including The Very Best of Stan Freberg (1998) and The Capitol Singles Collection (2009).
The story switches to Gavin Nichols (Charlie Hunnam), an atheist, standing on the ledge of a tall building as if to jump to his death.
The song was co-written by ex-Filter guitarist and composer Geno Lenardo and vocalist Johnny Andrews.
From 2016 to 2022, the BioLogos Foundation published a series of books titled BioLogos Books on Science and Christianity.
Marx adopted Feuerbach's critique of Hegel's idealism, his reversal of the subject-predicate relationship, and his focus on humanity as the true subject of philosophy and history.
Critical reception On Rotten Tomatoes, The Ledge holds an approval rating of 14% based on 29 reviews, with an average rating of 4.6/10.
Kagin is the originator and was, for its first decade, Director of Camp Quest, the nation's first residential secular summer camp for children of Atheists and other freethinkers, started in 1996 by FIG.
The film includes a nod to King's The Dark Tower series, with Drayton seen painting an image based on the books in the opening scene.
It is a detailed analysis of the arguments for and against the Abbot having given the order "Kill them all ..." as recorded by the Cistercian chronicler Caesarius of Heisterbach.
He is also mentioned in the Cratylus, which takes place about twenty years earlier, as an expert in the names of the gods.
The presence of fallacies of argument in sources is another kind of philosophical criterion for evaluating sources.
Background Under the government of Pericles, in 447 BC, Athens had established a cleruchy on Naxos, sending 500 Athenian colonists to settle there after they had conquered it in order to help maintain their control over the island.
The song begins: The lyrics mockingly list a number of Catholic rituals such as confession, the Eucharist, and Rosaries, and suggest the irony of modernizing an age-old institution like the church.
During his September 2017 AMA on Reddit, MacFarlane revealed that he had not written for the show since 2010, choosing instead to focus on production and voice acting.
Ukraine Is Not a Brothel Je Suis Femen (I Am Femen), 2014, documentary film, written and directed by Alain Margot.
A man's Irish driving license photograph including a colander was rejected by the Road Safety Authority (RSA) in December 2013.
For Philipse, too, the topic of religion and morality once again gained urgency because of "9/11", whereupon he decided to write four new essays on the relationship between religion and science under the title of De onredelijkheid van religie, and combine it with his 1995 work.
The chairman also was named as the commander-in-chief of the armed forces as well as the "supreme representative of all the Korean people".
The Juntas Españolas had been a far-right party, which attempted to copy the image and strategy of the French National Front.
At the same time, he began studying traditional philosophy after purchasing a copy of the book History of Philosophy (Ιστορία της Φιλοσοφίας, Istoria tis Filosofias, 2 vols., 1933) by the historian of ideas Nikolaos Louvaris.
He would draw on his war experiences for his great trilogy of novels, Les Chemins de la Liberté (The Roads to Freedom) (1945–1949).
In September 1967, Lehrer included "The Vatican Rag" on his Live in Copenhagen TV special recorded in Denmark.
History The organization was founded in 2013 in Washington, D.C., by Sarah Haider and Muhammad Syed, and in Toronto by Sadar Ali and Nas Ishmael.
Arguments "God" can be proved not to mean anything that exists because the alleged definition of God is circular and meaningless.
Criticism and controversy The appearance of the BCSE has been met with hostility by the main promoter of intelligent design, the Discovery Institute.
The BCSE features a website on which it tracks leading creationists and creationist organizations, particularly those active in the United Kingdom.
Tax resistance Some come-outers engaged in tax resistance because of their unwillingness to fund a government that did not work to end slavery.
The film simultaneously cross-cuts back and forth and interweaves the segments over great gaps of space and time, with over 50 transitions between the segments.
MacFarlane pitched a fifteen-minute pilot to Fox in May 1998, and the show was greenlit and began production.
Dudeism advocates and encourages the practice of "going with the flow", "being cool headed", and "taking it easy" in the face of life's difficulties, believing that this is the only way to live in harmony with our inner nature and the challenges of interacting with other people.
Some of their parodies include: Band members Timeline Discography Studio albums EPs Live albums Christmas albums Compilation albums Filmography Awards 2005 Best CD Award: New & Used Hits: The Best of ApologetiX Vol.
On these there then operates a kind of selective procedure which eliminates those proposals and those possibilities which are not acceptable to the mind.
Early in the morning on December 19, 2006, the song was offered as a featured free download on the front page of the iTunes Store, but was removed within hours without explanation.
The Diocese of Stockholm declared the 1902 exemption unlawful and formally revoked it in January 1903.
In 2017, Facebook locked out EXMNA's account for a week because it had allegedly violated the company's terms of service although it did not specify which standards the account had allegedly violated.
Footage includes a dominatrix and pit bulls, a woman who lies in a tanning bed until her skin becomes leathery, and an obese man sitting in a recliner in front of a TV set.
Critic Richard Propes writes about the soundtrack: "Alec Empire's original score for the film is an immersive creepster that complements the visuals without dominating them.
Many have speculated that the delay was caused by the London tube bombing on the 7 July and the failed 21 July bombing.
Lloyd Dunn, the president of Capitol, told Freberg the record was offensive to everybody in advertising, and predicted that Freberg would never work in advertising again.
Religion in public schools Under Swedish law of the period, Christian religious instruction (kristendomskunskap) in the public elementary schools was compulsory.
The song was initially to have been recorded by George Strait for his 2008 album Troubadour, but after Strait decided not to include the song on this album, it was recorded by Kenny Chesney instead.
By January 2020, OPEC+ had cut oil production by 2.1 million barrels per day (bpd), with Saudi Arabia making the largest reductions in production.
dollar to make oil in Japan 4.10 times as expensive; In the same period, the Euro gained value over the U.S.
Putin stated that any country refusing to use the new payment mechanism would be in violation of their contracts and face "corresponding repercussions".
In opening developing countries to developed world food imports subsidised by Western governments, developing nations can become more dependent upon food imports if local agriculture does not improve.
In 2020, although China built some plants, globally more coal power was retired than built: the UN Secretary General has said that OECD countries should stop generating electricity from coal by 2030 and the rest of the world by 2040.
The opportunity segment can be scaled to any level depending on the specific interest of the analyst, whether at a global, country, basin, structural domain, play, license or reservoir level.
However, new extraction methods began reversing this trend beginning in the mid-2000s decade, with production reaching 10.07 million b/d in November 2017 – the highest monthly level of crude oil production in U.S.
the United States, Canada, Western Europe, Australia, and New Zealand) during the 1970s, putting an end to the overall post–World War II economic expansion.
crude inventories rose more than expected, and uncertainty about OPEC and COVID-19 lockdowns contributed to lower prices the next day.
In December 2025, Russian energy analyst Craig Kennedy said that new sanctions by the US, EU, and the UK are likely to substantially cut Russia's oil revenues in 2026, while intensifying what he described as the worst crisis in Russia's energy sector since the 1990s.
Initiating a mitigation crash program 10 years before world oil peaking helps considerably but still leaves a liquid fuels shortfall roughly a decade after the time that oil would have peaked.
Norway oil production The Norwegian Hubbert linearization estimates an URR = 30 Gb and a logistic growth rate of k = 17%.
This move put immediate economic pressure on Slovakia, which relied on the pipeline for a significant portion of its gas supply and earned an estimated hundreds of millions of euros annually in transit fees from the gas flowing onward to other European destinations.
West Germany reached its production peak in 1966, Venezuela and the United States in 1970, and Iran in 1974.
Jacque Fresco posits that while certain energy resources are deemed scarce, there are other abundant sources, such as geothermal energy, which could remain virtually inexhaustible for thousands of years at current consumption rates.
The USA turned to unconventional reservoirs to achieve their goals, which had been known about for decades but had previously been too costly to be economically attractive.
Fico's government demanded the resumption of gas transit and suggested a mechanism where European, transnational entities would purchase the gas at the Russian-Ukrainian border and pay Ukraine for the transit, thereby sidestepping a direct contract renewal between Naftogaz and Gazprom.
Preexisting factors that may have contributed to the surge included housing shortages, climate impacts, and government budget deficits.
For example, electricity can be converted more efficiently than thermal energy into motion, due to electricity's lower entropy.
Gerard, then with the National Mining Association; Red Cavaney, president of the American Petroleum Institute; and Eli Bebout, an old friend of Cheney's from Wyoming who serves in the state Senate and owns an oil and drilling company.
From that time, other than wells completed in water-drive reservoirs, they decline in production, with the rate of decline depending on the output of the wells and on other factors governing their productivity.
In the same year, results from a survey showed that 51% of EU enterprises polled invested in energy efficiency.
In 2023, approximately 32% of EU enterprises have invested in new, climate friendly business sectors and technology, to stay up to date with the green transition.
For example, if steel is being used to drill for oil or construct a nuclear power plant, should the energy input of the steel be taken into account?
On 27 August, Ukrainian media reported that the Ryazan refinery, one of the main fuel arteries to Moscow, had been struck by a powerful explosion.
The Electric Power Research Institute champions the use of smart grid features such as power control devices employing advanced sensors to coordinate the grid.
'Peak car' theory The 'peak car' hypothesis was proposed after declines in traffic during the morning peak period were observed from the mid 1990s in some places and at a national level in the United Kingdom since about 2008.
On 10 November 2024, the government began nationally implementing another round of the same type of blackout.
There are few clear examples of abiogenic methane-ethane-butane, as the same processes favor enrichment of light isotopes in all chemical reactions, whether organic or inorganic.
Impact In November 2025, Reuters reported that Russia's oil processing had fallen only 3% during the year despite the attacks, as refineries averted a steep decline by using spare capacity to offset the damage.
According to the French polling institute BVA, the approval rating for President Emmanuel Macron dropped to 36% in fall 2022 due to the energy crisis and galloping inflation in France.
The fuel crisis has had a widespread impact on Vietnamese society as people change habits and find new ways of production.
The Brunei Shell Petroleum (BSP), which is jointly owned by Shell and the Bruneian government, is the owner and operator of the offshore field.
Chile imports more than 90% of its natural gas from Argentina and depends heavily on it to generate electricity; it has shifted the focus from coal and oil towards gas, and had five gas pipelines built for the specific purpose of getting gas from Argentina.
Similarly, Prime Minister of Slovakia Robert Fico campaigned in the 2023 Slovak parliamentary election on an Eurosceptic platform, halting military aid to Ukraine and pushing for friendly relations with Russia, while criticizing NATO and the United States.
Evans; former Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan, Microsoft CEO Steve Ballmer, and former Secretary General of OPEC Rilwanu Lukman.
He believed that if America was not adequately prepared for those demands then the foundations for the prosperity of the country would be threatened.
Central African Republic Fuel shortage and rising food prices exacerbated humanitarian assistance in the country, with some humanitarian flights having been either suspended or postponed due to high fuel price.
However, The New York Times warned the next week that the word "glut" was misleading, and that temporary surpluses had brought down prices somewhat, but prices were still well above pre-energy crisis levels.
Gernot Wagner argued that the benefits of the Act would likely not be felt before the 2024 election, but that the act is a great long-term strategy to decouple from volatile energy markets that drive inflation.
Amounts listed below, in billions of barrels, are the estimated ultimate recoverable petroleum resources (proved reserves plus cumulative production also abbreviated as URR), given historical production and current extraction technology.
This did not prove to be the case: the United States, Sweden, Belgium, the Netherlands, Pakistan, and West Germany all refused to make their technicians available to the nationalized Iranian industry.
This new dock worked alongside its larger sister dock, which could handle ships up to 1,200 tonnes, both moored in the Belait River.
The EIA estimates global coal-to-liquids production will climb to 600,000 bbl/d (95,000 m3/d) in 2015 and 2,400,000 bbl/d (380,000 m3/d) in 2030.
Implications to peak oil Peak Oil derives from the Hubbert peak theory, which theorizes that production of any finite resource over time will have roughly inverse curves before and after the peak of the resource's production (creating an approximately bell shaped curve).
President Obama made strict guidelines to standardize fuel economy in vehicles, especially passenger vehicles.
In January 1980, he issued the Carter Doctrine, declaring: "An attempt by any outside force to gain control of the Persian Gulf region will be regarded as an assault on the vital interests of the United States".
All international transportation is grounded, including logistics, meaning resources such as steel, food, medical supplies, and trash are not being moved.
The Obama administration took steps to ensure that America's need for oil would also safeguard the protection of the environment as well.
References Argentina: crisis energética (26 March 2004) (in Spanish) Argentina teme crisis energética (9 May 2005) (in Spanish) Peligro...
After the withdrawal of the British workers in the autumn of 1951, the Iranians felt confident that they could easily hire non-British technicians to run the industry and then quickly train their own nationals to replace them.
According to the FAO, the average minimum daily energy requirement is about 1,800 kilocalories (7,500 kJ) per person.
Leaders are dismissive of system theories that conclude that blackouts are inevitable, but do agree that the basic operation of the grid must be changed.
Production started to increase again in 2009, spurred by high gold prices, and achieved record new highs each year in 2012, 2013, and 2014, when production reached 2,990 tonnes.
Bardi concluded that rapid collapse is not a flaw, or "bug" as he terms it, but a "varied and ubiquitous phenomena" with multiple causes and resultant pathways.
Oxygen levels shoot back up after the water molecules are split into hydrogen and oxygen due to the sun's increased ultraviolet radiation, and the lighter hydrogen escapes to space.
The "Seneca effect" model is related to the "World3" model from the 1972 report The Limits to Growth, issued by the Club of Rome.
Champion-1 Champion-7 (Main Complex Platform) Champion-11 Champion-41 Champion-37 Champion-38 Champion-39 Gallery == References ==
It was capable of handling vessels up to 100 feet (30 m) long and weighing 100 tonnes (98 long tons; 110 short tons).
production curve deviates from Hubbert's 1956 curve in significant ways: When oil surpluses created a glut on the market and low prices began causing demand and production curves to rise, regulatory agencies such as the Texas Railroad Commission stepped in to restrain production.
Many large economies, like the EU, US and China, were unable to support 2005 levels of growth, and China almost fell into its own financial crisis during its 2015 stock market bubble and crash.
On the following day, the organisation issued a statement stating that "The fuel is still not going to the pumps that need it most in London and the South East...
For example, one 24-year-old with a car moved to Washington, D.C., for work purposes but did not take her car, and she explained: I don't need (my car).
The authorities announced widespread closures of schools, universities, and government offices, and shopping centers in the capital Tehran and 17 Iranian provinces to save energy.
However, a lack of refining capacity would only seem to explain high gasoline prices, not high crude oil prices.
Federal Reserve policy helped prices fall the next week, though they rose to end the week due to positive U.S.
The United States imported 28 percent of its oil in 1982 and 1983, down from 46.5 percent in 1977, due to lower consumption.
The theory is disputed by the UK Department for Transport, which predicts that road traffic in the United Kingdom will grow by 50% by 2036, and Professor Stephen Glaister, Director of the RAC Foundation, who say traffic will start increasing again as the economy improves.
Saad al-Kaabi, Qatar's minister of state for energy affairs, described the price war as a "very big mistake" in a June 2020 interview.
Meanwhile, Simmons' Twilight in the Desert seemed to Tierney to be cut from the same doom-and-gloom cloth as Paul R.
The glut directed Algeria into an economic recession and directly influenced the politics: the authoritarian regime of Chadli Bendjedid had to compromise with Islamic opposition in 1984 and start economic reforms dismantling socialism in 1987.
Furthermore, "All twelve people were arrested for breaching the legal notice by driving at under 30 mph for a prolonged amount of time." was said.
The study says that "while violent events, such as global war or natural catastrophic events, are of immediate concern to everyone, a relatively slow consumption of the planetary resources may be not perceived as strongly as a mortal danger for the human civilization".
Another mitigation measure is the setup of a cache of secure fuel reserves like the United States Strategic Petroleum Reserve, in case of national emergency.
On 30 July, the Ukrainian Foreign Affairs Ministry expressed willingness to join talks with the European Commission in order to maintain cooperation with Hungary and Slovakia.
These announcements caused increases in world gas prices, which analysts said was a part of the Iranian Government's plan to apply pressure on the world to stop the war.
The war has also affected some exports, with ships taking longer to reach their destination, so the Kenya Ports Authority has prioritised the export of perishable products such as tea, flowers, and avocados.
The Hubbert curve is the first derivative of a logistic function, which has been used for modeling the depletion of crude oil in particular, the depletion of finite mineral resources in general and also population growth patterns.
Thus, furthering the spread of the transition movement while networking related organizations, projects, ideas and activities.
Prime Minister of Slovakia Robert Fico held a telephone conversation with Prime Minister of Ukraine Denys Shmyhal where he strongly asserted that Slovakia would not allow itself to become a "hostage" to Ukrainian-Russian relations.
The 2025 Slovakia–Ukraine gas dispute was a major diplomatic and energy security crisis that began on January 1, 2025, following the expiration of the five-year natural gas transit contract between the Russian state-owned energy company Gazprom and Ukraine's Naftogaz.
Economists state that for prices to return to pre-pandemic levels a deflationary period would be required, which is usually associated with recession.
He called the winter’s outcome “unacceptable” and vowed to “strive to move out of this situation next year” .
King Hubbert's 1956 presentation to the American Petroleum Institute, as an idealized symmetric curve, during his tenure at the Shell Oil Company.
While the possibility of restricting domestic usage was considered, it was deemed unnecessary and disruptive.
The list of former politicians who endorse this book (and, arguably, by extension, the Rimini Protocol) are as follows: Andrew McNamara, MP, Parliament of Queensland, Australia; Roscoe G.
This representation of 'technology' also prevails in standard mainstream economics textbooks on the subject.
Their final agreement was a commitment to tabulate every closing price-per-barrel of oil for each market day of 2010, then average out those prices for the entire year from January 1 through December 31, adjusted for inflation to 2005 prices.
The test is, when the need is there, whether we will use the capacity or not and I can assure you we will.
The record-high energy prices were driven by a global surge in demand as the world quit the economic recession caused by COVID-19 pandemic, particularly due to strong energy demand in Asia.
Though farmers were now incentivized to turn a profit on their crops, the markets they participated in were still heavily regulated and taxed.
after five up days, oil fell more than 4 percent on January 15 in response to a conflict with Iran being less likely, meaning no disruptions to oil.
By 2008, exports of everything but oil "collapsed" and, in 2012, the World Bank explained that Venezuela's economy is "extremely vulnerable" to changes in oil prices since in 2012.
He responded by calling a snap election on 28 February 1974 in what he saw as an opportunity for the electorate to show the miners that the government – and not the miners or the unions – were responsible for running the country.
Economic growth was re-established in 1975 as the recession's end was declared, but Britain's economy remained shaky.
The country already lived with a deficient and inefficient system and many business reported complaints about the lack of management and communication from the electrical companies.
Firzli, writing in a Saudi Arabian journal World Pensions Forum, warned that the escalating oversupply could have durably negative economic consequences for all Gulf Cooperation Council member states.
According to an analysis by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air, the largest European importers of Russian liquefied natural gas in July 2025 were France, Belgium and Spain.
For example, at a growth rate of 2% per year, oil consumption would double approximately every 34.65 years.
The BBC reported on 7 September 2005 that the group responsible for the blockades in September 2000 was threatening to stage protests at oil refineries from 0600 BST on 14 September 2005 unless reductions in fuel duty were made.
Iraq launches several conventional missiles at Kuwait, but this has no effect on Kuwaiti oil production.
Alternately, generating capacity may temporarily decrease below demand due to power station outages or loss of renewable capacity due to the wind dropping or the sun shining less.
The artificial transfer of heat and pressure require the use of large volumes of fresh water creating supply and disposal issues.
It would be some consolation for the feebleness of our selves and our works, if all things should perish as slowly as they come into being; but as it is, increases are of sluggish growth, but the way to ruin is rapid.
After peak oil, according to the Hubbert Peak Theory, the rate of oil production on Earth would enter a terminal decline.
The pipeline was shut down on September 16, and federal regulators began investigating the cause of the leak.
As a result, the next day, Serebrian accused Transnistria of having a "genocidal attitude" towards the civilians on the left bank of the Dniester, "whom they are holding captive".
For example, funding for research into inertial confinement fusion technology increased during the 1970s.
On January 26, 2008, Dushanbe cut power to places of entertainment (including restaurants, shops, pharmacies, markets, and public bathhouses), causing many to close until spring.
Popular alternatives are human-powered transport, public transport, electric vehicles, and biofuels.
Russian analyst Yuri Baranchik declared in his channel that it would be necessary to take Mykolaiv and Odesa from Ukraine to form a land corridor with Transnistria and "restore justice and legality" in Transnistria and Moldova.
This includes the assets of oil companies." Invitees included Egypt, Syria, Kuwait, Libya, Saudi Arabia, Algeria, Bahrain, Abu Dhabi, and Qatar.
World Without Oil This episode hypothesizes a total oil depletion scenario, where almost all oil on Earth simply vanishes in one night, leaving behind only oil that has already been extracted, and products refined from oil, such as gasoline and diesel.
Current production is for 2025, except when the year is specifically provided along with the production figure.
Some deliveries commenced from the refineries and the police supplied escorts as required to ensure that tankers could move.
2000s-2010s In 2006, Brunei reached its peak of production with 220,000 b/d to become the third largest producer of oil and gas in Asia but the depletion of the fields generated the decline of production down to 141,000 b/d in 2012.
Conventional reservoir Oil and gas are generated naturally at depths of around 4 or 5 km below Earth’s surface.
Projections A number of industry petroleum geologists, scientists, and economists were listed with their global peak production projection.
Return to the use of coal as a primary source The theory proposes that due to the predominance of one nation the rest of the world will follow the same sequence in the implementation of a resource as a primary source.
Iran In November 1978, a strike by 37,000 workers at Iran's nationalized oil refineries reduced production from 6 million barrels (950,000 m3) per day to about 1.5 million barrels (240,000 m3).
Ultra low permeability reservoirs exhibit a half slope on a log-plot of flow-rates against time believed to be caused by drainage from matrix surfaces into adjoining fractures.
The Cuban government was also forced to contract out more lucrative economic and tourism deals with various Western European and South American nations in an attempt to earn the foreign currency necessary to replace the lost Soviet petroleum via the international markets.
An international appeal was made by the United Nations, NGOs, and the Red Cross and Red Crescent for around US$25 million to assist the government.
Emission output Like other non-combustion energy storage technologies, a liquid nitrogen vehicle displaces the emission source from the vehicle's tail pipe to the central electrical generating plant.
On 13 October, Asda reported not having had a shortage of fuel for a week, and by 22 October the BBC reported that stock levels in service station storage tanks were at their highest levels since May.
LN2 Vehicle 1 Archived 2007-02-05 at the Wayback Machine, a liquid nitrogen–powered car using a Cryogenic Heat Engine at the University of North Texas.
Ukrainian officials accused Fico of prioritizing ties with Moscow over European unity and the interests of the Slovak people.
Between February and May the cuts amounted to an average of 9.5 million m3 a day, about 13% of industrial demand, and by the end of May they grew to a maximum of 22 million m3.
Before the availability of computers, decline curve analysis was performed by hand on semi-log plot paper.
Natural gas is used simply because it is the cheapest currently available source of hydrogen; were that to change, other sources, such as electrolysis powered by solar energy, could be used to provide the hydrogen for creating fertilizer.
Because mitigation can reduce the use of traditional petroleum sources, it can also affect the timing of peak oil and the shape of the Hubbert curve.
Others advocate greater use of electronically controlled high-voltage direct current (HVDC) firebreaks to prevent disturbances from cascading across AC lines in a wide area grid.
In the following month, Brent prices fell approximately 22%, constituting the largest monthly loss in a decade, ending the month at $59.46 per barrel on 30 November.
This is mainly due to "energy invested" varying depending on technology, methodology, and system boundary assumptions, resulting in a range from a maximum of 2000 kWh/m2 of module area down to a minimum of 300 kWh/m2, with a median value of 585 kWh/m2 according to a meta-study from 2013.
The inflationary recession, combined with an expansionary government fiscal policy and a generous collective wage agreement among unions in 1974–1976, put Sweden on a highly inflationary path: the price index quintupled between 1972 and 1995.
This may be due to the availability of more data and/or the improved matching between predicted and actual production performance.
When conditions were right—a lack of oxygen for decomposition, and sufficient depth and temperature of burial—these organic remains were converted into petroleum compounds, while the sediment accompanying them was converted into sandstone, siltstone, and other porous sedimentary rock.
Russia warned that usage of the pipeline could be completely suspended because of problems with the repairment.
The United States welcomes the move, but says that it will maintain economic sanctions until it sees evidence of compliance.
Suppliers then focused on supply of standard grades, creating extended pressure on the supply of the premium grades which some vehicles require.
Liquid nitrogen is not available in public refueling stations; however, there are distribution systems in place at most welding gas suppliers and liquid nitrogen is an abundant by-product of liquid oxygen production.
The curve is the main component of Hubbert peak theory, which has led to the rise of peak oil concerns.
Releasing petrol station reserves - After the demand for petrol went high the Ministry of Petroleum ordered fuel stations to give put from their reserves without any hesitation.
Talks collapse after nations fail to decide whether agenda should focus on oil/energy issues or have a broader economic scope.
The following issues are considered below: The role of technology; resource decoupling and the rebound effect; a declining-state economy; the possibility of having capitalism without growth; and the possibility of pushing some of the terrestrial limits into outer space.
The consortium included Standard Oil of New Jersey, Standard Oil of California, SOCONY-Vacuum, the Texas Company, Gulf, Royal Dutch-Shell, the Compagnie Francaise de Petroles, and the AIOC.
Some Arab countries encouraged the oil companies to circumvent the embargo, as the Amir of Kuwait even proposed to the US ambassador that companies simply alter shipping manifests to ship oil to prohibited countries.
Some of those points include lifting development restrictions on federal lands and waters, ending permitting obstruction on natural gas projects, revising the National Environmental Policy Act process to reduce some of the "bureaucracy" placed on energy projects, among other suggestions.
Other stock markets were similarly affected, with the S&P 500 contracting by 7.6% and the NASDAQ Composite contracting by 7.2%.
Meteorites are believed to represent the major composition of material from which the Earth was formed.
villages (Kinsale), neighbourhoods of cities (Portobello, Edinburgh), through council districts (Penwith) to cities and city boroughs (Brixton).
By January 2016, the OPEC Reference Basket fell to US$22.48/bbl – less than one-sixth of its record from July 2008 ($140.73), and back below the April 2003 starting point ($23.27) of its historic run-up.
Production decline curve analysis is important in determining the value in oil and gas wells in oil and gas economics.
An amount of 8,500 barrels were purchased from the spot market whereas the price have been concealed from the public.
The report discusses some existing problems and potential risks and asks the Brazilian government for caution to avoid jeopardizing its environmental and social sustainability.
September 5: Conference of less developed countries approves forming "producers' associations," calls for withdrawal of Israeli forces from occupied Arab lands.
Major initiatives and legislation China China has pledged to become carbon neutral by 2060, which would need a just transition for over 3 million workers in the coal-mining and power industry.
Influences Influences include permaculture concepts as described in Bill Mollison’s Permaculture, a Designers Manual (1988) and David Holmgren’s Permaculture: Principles and Pathways Beyond Sustainability (2003), as well as David Fleming's work on community, culture and resilience.
Egret oil field, also known as Egret Field, is a complex oil and gas field in the South China Sea and 45 km north-west of Seria, Belait District, Brunei.
See also Price of petroleum 2000s energy crisis References External links https://www.nytimes.com/2005/08/23/opinion/23tierney.html http://www.twilightinthedesert.com/ http://www.theoildrum.com/ – The Oil Drum
OAPEC countries cut production of oil and placed an embargo on oil exports to the United States after Richard Nixon requested $2.2 billion to support Israel in the war after learning that the Soviet Union, was aiding Syria and Egypt in the war.
Various curfews with the intention of increasing energy conservation may be initiated to reduce consumption.
Anti-globalists apply a similar argument, but tend to focus on exploitation of third world societies rather than the environment.
Oil shale reserves (perhaps 3 trillion barrels (4.8×1011 m3)) and coal reserves, both of which can be converted to liquid petroleum, are not included in this chart.
So far a part of the changes ultimately requested by Hirsch for the US have been already implemented in Europe (and cum grano salis in Asia).
"Sustainable energy system with zero emissions of GHG for cities and countries." Energy and Buildings 98 (2015): 27-33.
Moreover, it was predicted that the oil field would produce an estimated of 30 million barrels for 15–20 years.
The South African Government has said that there was no shortage of fuel in the country, but prices have increased and some petrol stations have introduced their own rationing of diesel.
have these really outdated economic principles inherited from the Industrial Revolution, when the world was indeed large and the scope for Man’s activities were at that time more or less infinite.
In April 2008, Pradeep Mitra, World Bank chief economist for Europe and Central Asia, issued an uncharacteristic statement, urging the worse-hit countries to spend more on social assistance and "top up" their social programs.
It also reminded readers that "Investment can flood into the oil market without driving up prices because speculators are not buying any actual crude...
The two worst crises of this period were the 1973 oil crisis and the 1979 oil crisis, when, respectively, the Yom Kippur War and the Iranian Revolution triggered interruptions in Middle Eastern oil exports.
Others have used similar but non-symmetrical equations which may provide better a fit to empirical production data.
See also Coal depletion Decline curve analysis Energy law Gas depletion Oil megaprojects Peak oil Peak water Further reading Kenneth S.
Most of the new continent is uninhabitable due to thin air, but the former ocean floor has sufficient air pressure for human life.
In Crimea, Russian occupation officials limited gasoline sales to 20 liters per customer and imposed price caps.
By September 17, the affected regions began experiencing gas shortages due to the leak and panic buying.
In general, the technical and commercial risk associated with discrete conventional reservoirs can be reduced using relatively inexpensive remote techniques such as reflection seismology and extracted with relatively few appraisal and development wells.
Gas was $4.16.Iran continued to limit traffic in the Strait of Hormuz, causing WTI to rise more than 3 percent to $97.87, while Brent finished at $95.92, up more than 1 percent.
The price as of the initial publishing of this article—May 10, 2008—was $125.96; the record high of $147 in July 2008 was attributed by some to a weak U.S.
The Aintree forecourt attendant Farhaan Mohammed, 21, said expected petrol to have run out by the end of trading and that there was no guarantee from Esso of more fuel.
Phosphorus supplies affect agricultural output which in turn limits alternative fuels such as biodiesel and ethanol.
The 1967 oil embargo was the main reason for the formation of OAPEC, which would provide a forum for the discussion of using oil politically.
FTC chair Lina Khan said "dominant firms used this moment to come out ahead at the expense of their competitors and the communities they serve." Although the pace of grocery price increases had abated since the 2022 surge, prices had not since fallen overall by 2024.
External links Robert Rapier: Does the Hubbert Linearization Ever Work?, The Oil Drum, 2007-03-22 David Rutledge: Energy Supplies and Climate, Caltech, 2019 - on curve fits to the production history (including excel data on historic coal production and logit fits) == References ==
In 1979, the amount of oil sold in the United States was only 3.5 percent less than the record set for oil sold in 1978.
market must report proved reserves under the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reporting requirements which shares many elements with PRMS.
After an embargo on Russian oil shipments and a price cap on Russian crude went into effect on December 6, 2022, crude prices climbed considerably as some commodity traders bet on reduced supply globally.
Detroit was not well prepared for the sudden rise in fuel prices, and imported brands, primarily the Asian models, which were mass-marketed and had a lower manufacturing cost as opposed to British and West German brands.
Dushanbe residents reported wearing several jackets and overcoats to sleep and all family members sleeping under a single blanket to share warmth.
However, many of the biofuels that are currently being supplied have been criticised for their adverse impacts on the natural environment, food security, and land use.
The inflation-adjusted real 2004 dollar value of oil fell from an average of $78.2 in 1981 to an average of $26.8 per barrel in 1986.
That day the country was placed on the first phase, watchful, with the public advised to use fuel cautiously.
The crisis was caused by a variety of economic factors, including the rapid post-pandemic economic rebound that outpaced energy supply, and escalated into a widespread global energy crisis.
The Advisory Board was critical in efficiently apportioning limited tanker resources and managing the distribution of the limited oil resources.
See also Fuel protests in the United Kingdom 2011 United Kingdom public sector strikes 2021 United Kingdom fuel supply crisis == References ==
News that the Royal Navy was intercepting tankers carrying Iranian oil scared off other tankers and effectively shut down oil exports from Iran.
Iran’s subsidized fuel, which is much cheaper than in neighboring countries, makes it highly attractive to smugglers.
A field containing 500 million barrels or more ultimately recoverable reserves is a giant field, while a super giant contains 5 billion barrels or more recoverable reserves.
Extraction for conventional oil fields fell after 1970, but started to recover and reached a lower secondary peak in 1988.
Daily programs usually revolve around the topics of oil, natural gas, electric power, renewables, and technology.
WTI peaked at $93.68 on September 27 before falling 8.8 percent during the first full week of October.
the presence of diamond within kimberlites and lamproites which sample the mantle depths proposed as being the source region of mantle methane (by Gold et al.).
The IRGC's control over key industries, including power generation and distribution, has hindered efficient management and strategic planning.
US oil production The charts below gives an example of the application of the Hubbert Linearization technique in the case of the US Lower-48 oil production.
The proposition received the support of parliamentary members of the proponent PCP, and also of PS, PSD, Bloco de Esquerda and Os Verdes parties.
The next week, with supply problems in Libya and Nigeria, oil rose for the third week in a row even though a stronger dollar caused a decline on July 14.
The primary cause of this was the collapse of the Soviet Union, who exported large quantities of cheap food to Cuba.
As a result, there had been numerous demonstrations and protests against the government, in favor of an insured uninterrupted supply of gas and electricity.
On 9 March 2020, stock markets worldwide reported major losses thanks in part to a combination of price war and fears over the coronavirus pandemic.
November 4—United States—190,000 customers (more than half of the county's 365,000 households) in Snohomish County, Washington, were without power for several days after a windstorm swept through the area with wind speeds of up to 80 mph.
The EGDP-01 platform was put in the field and the gases would then be carried by pipelines to the Brunei LNG plant, via South West Ampa gas field.
The list excludes fields where commercial development has been unsuccessful and fields with no current plan for development and extraction.
As a result of the 2026 Iran war, Brent finished March 3 at $81.49, the highest since January 2025, and WTI finished March 4 at $74.66, the highest since June.
On September 25 Toplofikacia Sofia issued a statement saying it will not be able to provide enough heat to all residents of Sofia and that winter was fast approaching.
February 12–14: Heads of state of Algeria, Egypt, Syria, and Saudi Arabia discuss oil strategy in view of the progress in Arab-Israeli disengagement.
However, both the AA and fire-fighters have now called on him to withdraw the advice, because of the risk of explosions in garages.
Another elaborated about the saturation of demand hypothesis: They say as we get richer, we'll want to travel more.
Japan After the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami, the Tokyo Electric Power Company implemented rolling blackouts.
uses one-third of the world's paper, a quarter of the world's oil, 23 percent of the coal, 27 percent of the aluminum, and 19 percent of the copper." According to BBC, a World Bank study has found that "Americans produce 16.5 tonnes of carbon dioxide per capita every year.
(Reuters) March 6: Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez announces that force majeure is henceforth lifted on Venezuelan oil exports.
The method requires extensive pressure-volume-temperature analysis and an accurate pressure history of the field.
Remedies In order to diminish the impact of the crisis, three measures were suggested: buying natural gas from Bolivia, which has abundant reserves of it; directly buying electricity from Brazil, which generates a large part of it using hydroelectric power plants; and importing oil from Venezuela.
Unconventional reservoirs, in contrast, are regionally dispersed over large areas with no indicative trap geometry that can be used for predictive purposes.
A biofuel advocacy publication, however, claimed that these were, in fact, "fuel riots", limited to the rise in the cost of diesel, and argued that the "food riot" characterization worked to fan "anti-biofuels sentiment".
EIA's 2007 International Energy Outlook estimates that tar sand production will climb to 2,300,000 bbl/d (370,000 m3/d) in 2015 and 3.6 million barrels per day (570×10^3 m3/d) in 2030.
He posits the possibility of conflict over scarce resources escalating into a global conflict, likened to a potential World War III.
Launched in 2007, the Totnes pound, which was redeemable in local shops and businesses, helped to reduce food miles while also supporting local firms.
market, especially in the wake of grey market automobiles or the inability of the vehicle to meet DOT requirements, from emission requirements to automotive lighting.
These declarations eliminated certain size and weight restrictions on vehicles carrying gasoline, and the hours during which they are allowed to deliver.
One chairman of a committee decides not to swear in the CEOs of the oil companies, alleviating them of the requirement to tell the truth.
Implemented solutions Many steps were taken by the Ministry of Petroleum Resources Development to overcome the problem until any fuel shipments arrived Purchasing from Spot Market - Fuel was purchased from the Spot Market to immediately recover from the shortage.
This was an effective measure to negate the oil embargo as there was no consensus on what countries to embargo, and more importantly, oil shipped to a European country could then be shipped to any of the embargoed countries.
In August 2022, after a 13-year trial, Sofia City Court convicted Dimitrov of money laundering, handing him a 7-year prison sentence and a fine of BGN 20,000, with all his assets subject to confiscation—though he remains free on BGN 3,000 cash bail, pending appeal.
Europe's gas supply is uniquely vulnerable because its lack in natural gas sources of considerable volume, its reliance on Russia supply and US driven sanctions against the latter, while many emerging economies have seen higher energy import bills and fuel shortages.
The Hungarian government convened a working group to address oil supply security concerns in response to the sanctions.
With United States fourth quarter economic growth expected to be lower than an early estimate, Benchmark crude fell slightly on February 27 to $102.40, with Brent crude reaching $108.61.
The glut began in the early 1980s as a result of slowed economic activity in industrial countries due to the crises of the 1970s, especially in 1973 and 1979, and the energy conservation (including replacing oil in some applications with other fuels) spurred by high fuel prices.
European Union responses In response to these complaints, European Commission officials publicly assured that they would review the matter and facilitate a resolution, while also stating that there was no immediate threat to the EU's general oil supply security.
Both had reached nearly $120 as oil went over $100 for the first time since early 2022 at the start of the Russia–Ukraine war.
Biotic (microbial) hydrocarbons The "deep biotic petroleum hypothesis", similar to the abiogenic petroleum origin hypothesis, holds that not all petroleum deposits within the Earth's rocks can be explained purely according to the orthodox view of petroleum geology.
The ageing of cities, especially their road infrastructure, much of which is at or near the end of its intended life.
On the new Champion-7 Living Quarters (CPNQ-7) platform, a fuel gas conditioning skid (FGCS) system and an emergency diesel generator (EDG) were also fitted in the same year.
However, on 15 December 2022, the Public Works Department (JKR) announced the demolition of the Rasau Bridge Toll building.
As the Financial Times reported on 4 November: "The White House has said OPEC+ risks imperiling the global economic recovery by refusing to speed up oil production increases and warned the U.S.
Cambridge Energy Research Associates (CERA) is a consulting company in the United States that specializes in advising governments and private companies on energy markets, geopolitics, industry trends, and strategy.
This is because a steep drop in the production implies that global oil production will decline so rapidly that the world will not have enough time to develop sources of energy to replace the energy now used from oil, possibly leading to drastic social and economic impacts.
Arjuna Ranatunga the Minister of Petroleum Resources Development on the next day addressed the situation to the media.
Some analysts and politicians linked the driver shortage to Brexit, whilst others blamed the COVID-19 pandemic, or their combined impact.
In Ricardo's times, Britain's trade with the European continent was somewhat disrupted during the Napoleonic Wars that had raged since 1803.
In France the government announced an ambitious plan to expand nuclear power which by the end of the 1980s had shifted France's electricity sector almost entirely away from coal gas and oil and towards nuclear power.
See also 2011–2013 world oil market chronology 2014–2016 world oil market chronology 2017–2019 world oil market chronology 2020–2022 world oil market chronology 2026–2028 world oil market chronology 2021–2023 global energy crisis References External links U.S.
January 10—United States—Outages related to snowfall were experienced across eastern Texas, affecting over 100,000 customers.
See also Hubbert peak theory Oil exploration Oil reserves Reserves-to-production ratio References Lewis, J.
Since in some cases there is no short-term economic benefit from investing to prevent rare large-scale failures, researchers have expressed concern that there is a tendency to erode the resilience of the network over time, which is only corrected after a major failure occurs.
It was the first time since the start of Russia's 24 February invasion of Ukraine that natural gas flow through Ukraine was interrupted.
While Kampong Rasau itself is small, it benefits from local amenities such as a primary school, multi-purpose hall, clinic, and mosque.
Basing his calculations on the peak of oil well discovery in 1948, Hubbert used his model in 1956 to create a curve which predicted that oil production in the contiguous United States would peak around 1970.
The addition of more complex power cycles would reduce this requirement and help enable frost free operation.
While most European Union countries had largely diversified their energy supply following the 2022 invasion, the halt disproportionately affected Slovakia due to its high reliance on the pipeline and its geographical location.
In electricity grids where power generators are paid a flexible market rate, power suppliers sometimes deliberately keep the generating capacity too low, or fake accidents that take capacity offline, to jack up prices.
2022 In the first collective action following the invasion, agreed on 1 March 2022, IEA member countries committed to release 62.7 million barrels of emergency oil stocks.
See also 1970s energy crisis List of recessions in the United States List of recessions in the United Kingdom Phillips curve Steel crisis 1973–1974 stock market crash References Further reading Meltzer, Allan H.
In order to supply the Brunei LNG plant in Lumut, a US$79 million development of the Egret field was planned by the BSP in November 2001 and 2002.
It has living accommodations, gaslift and compression capabilities, water treatment and injection facilities, and operation management for the field.
The announcement of the suspension caused natural gas prices to surge and the Russian ruble to reach a two-year-high against the Euro in Moscow trade.
On May 11, 2006, during the House Energy Committee meeting, Representative Anna Eshoo, D-Cal., asks why, if Exxon is not building in the U.S., are they looking for new ways to invest record profits.
With the US actions seen as initiating the oil embargo, the long-term possibility of embargo-related high oil prices, disrupted supply and recession, created a strong rift within NATO; both European countries and Japan sought to disassociate themselves from the US Middle East policy.
World mined gold production has peaked four times since 1900: in 1912, 1940, 1971, and 2001, each peak being higher than previous peaks.
The emergence of newly industrialized countries rose competition in the metal industry, triggering a steel crisis, where industrial core areas in North America and Europe were forced to re-structure.
Rasau is part of an 11-kilometre road connecting Sungai Teraban and Sungai Tujoh, which facilitates easier travel between Brunei and Sarawak's Miri Division, including Miri and surrounding areas.
According to the Government Accountability Office (GAO), these members held ten meetings over the course of three and a half months with petroleum, coal, nuclear, natural gas, and electricity industry representatives and lobbyists.
The lack of resources to purchase the electronic equipment to produce beats and tracks gives Cuban rap a raw feel that paralleled that of "old school" music in the US.
Russian state-owned news agencies RIA Novosti and RT shared on Telegram the information on the SVR RF's report, while Russian state-owned news agency TASS, referencing the report, added on the same platform that the EU did not know how to calm "emotionally unstable" Sandu.
He also described $120–$150 per barrel as the "break point" for oil, the point where demand erosion would affect the price rise.
After Hurricane Katrina, the energy committees in both the Senate and the House hold hearings about the sudden rise in gasoline prices, the first time that they have gone over $3 per gallon.
Future action on such environmental concerns, ranging from climate change to smog, has severely hurt the notion that oil demand would forever rise.
January 23: Shah of Iran announces that the 1954 operating agreement between a consortium of oil companies and Iran will not be renewed when it expires in 1979.
Typically, natural gas is used, either directly combusted for process heat or used to power an electricity-generating turbine, which then uses electrical heating elements to heat the underground layers of shale to produce oil from the kerogen.
On March 7, 2011, the average price of gas having reached $3.57, individuals were making changes in their driving.
In July 1952, the Royal Navy intercepted the Italian tanker Rose Mary and forced it into the British protectorate of Aden on the grounds that the ship's petroleum was stolen property.
Shale oil producers in North America generally require oil prices above $40 per barrel to sustain operations, and the cuts in new oilfields is expected to nullify the expected growth in US oil production.
The National Blood Service reported that it was coping and blood supplies to hospitals were not under threat but said that there "were some significant problems in some parts of the country".
The impacts of the spike on poor people were concentrated in low-income countries and may have been less severe than once thought, thanks to rising rural wages in some countries.
Air currents vital for the distribution of solar heat across the planet whirl towards the poles, while the atmosphere starts to thin at the equator, and people migrate to more northerly and southerly cities to keep up with denser air.
Food production According to The Transition food is a key area for transition, sometimes the slogan "Food feet, not food miles" is used.
"Oil Extraction, Economic Growth, and Oil Price Dynamics." BioPhysical Economics and Resource Quality 2.1 (2017): 1.
Smith, R-Ore., observes that no Gulf crude is used on the West Coast, yet gas prices spiked there as well.
Spinel polymerization mechanism Magnetite, chromite and ilmenite are Fe-spinel group minerals found in many rocks but rarely as a major component in non-ultramafic rocks.
For individuals, remote work provides alternatives to daily commuting and long-distance air travel for business.
North Carolina governor Pat McCrory, Tennessee governor Bill Haslam and South Carolina governor Nikki Haley all declared states of emergency, allowing fuel tankers to work longer hours to maintain the availability of gasoline.
Russia The Russian government pressured retailers to freeze food prices before key elections for fear of a public backlash against the rising cost of food in October 2007.
(NYT, WSJ, AP) August 14: Russia approves a $13 billion merger between Yukos and Sibneft, creating "YukosSibneft," Russia's first "supermajor" and one of the world's largest publicly traded oil companies.
The Energy Secretary, Ed Davey urged motorists to "keep tanks two-thirds full, but don't panic." on 29 March.
crude inventories and a good chance of solving the Iran problem led to a nearly 3 percent drop in oil prices.
With supplies rapidly diminishing and winter fast approaching, more and more residents are switching on electrical heating devices and also boilers for hot water which usually Toplofikacia supplies.
The term brownout comes from the dimming experienced by incandescent lighting when the voltage sags.
The production data is fitted to the logistic curve after transformation using e(t) as normalized exhaustion parameter going from 0 to 1.
Ukraine's case in particular would pose significantly larger and more complex problems than Transnistria's reintegration, and the West could be interested in using Transnistria as a "testing ground" for its approaches and theories before treating Ukraine's more complex case.
This is what led to the rumors regarding the fuel shortage originated from which made the public panic Sapugaskanda Oil Refinery Shutdown - another issue faced in this crisis was the power loss which caused the Sapugaskanda Oil Refinery to be shut down for almost three days.
Boris Aronstein, an independent oil and gas analyst, said that the Ukrainian drone strikes had caused "the most severe crisis in recent years", adding that the size, coordination and repeated waves of the drones makes Russia unable to repair the refineries before the next attack occurs.
According to the Institute for the Study of War (ISW), the accusations could have represented an attempt to set the ground for a Russian false flag operation in Transnistria.
Increased insurance premiums have also occurred in areas that experienced more frequent and intense wildfires and floods due to climate change.
Once the queues have dispersed, the petrol stations may re-open for short periods." The AA president Edmund King said on 29 March: "We plead with drivers who really don't need to fill up to stay away from the pumps.
Tom Ogle, the subject of the article, was found in the desert, dead from a drug overdose, and his car disappeared.
The next week due to concerns about possible war in the Middle East, Brent rose 8 percent, the most in a week since January 2023, to $78.05.
Second, it will obscure the emergence of a third way, which might form a future synthesis of socialism and capitalism into a steady-state economy and eventually into a fully just and sustainable society.
Additionally, such societies are built upon economic growth, which begets more pollution from consumerism.
The Phase 1 project was planned to be completed by August 2003 (at the cost of US$ 22 million), while Phase 2 was predicted to be in 2006, with the development probably costing US$ 79 million.
This opinion has been met with criticism by those who believe a peak has already occurred or is imminent.
In more recent years, however, a source of continued controversy is the creation of a different methodology endorsed by certain members of the IEA which for example most notably in the case of photovoltaic solar panels, controversially generates more favorable values.
Traditional nitrogen engine designs work by heating the liquid nitrogen in a heat exchanger, extracting heat from the ambient air and using the resulting pressurized gas to operate a piston or rotary motor.
Production decline curve analysis is a traditional means of identifying well production problems and predicting well performance and life based on measured oil well production.
In 2019 a research, presenting an overview of the attempts to achieve constant economic growth without environmental destruction and their results, was published.
2023 Both Brent and WTI started the year down more than 8 percent, the most for a first week since 2016.
Shutting down pipes Bulgargas shut down pipes providing gas to heating plants in Vratsa, Burgas and Pleven.
President Donald Trump being diagnosed with COVID-19, WTI fell 4.3 percent on October 2 to finish the week down 8 percent at $37.05, the lowest since September 8.
A week later, on April 18, power was lost to all of Puerto Rico when an excavator repairing 2017 damage from Hurricane Maria hit a line connecting two major power plants.
However, these new owners have failed to invest in necessary upgrades or maintenance, allowing the plants to fall into disrepair.
As of late September 2008, the issue is unresolved and Gazprom will shut down supply of gas to all companies who were in debt, including the four plants in Sofia.
"The moving protest started at around 7.00am this morning, at 8.30am four people were arrested with another eight people arrested at around 10.45am," their statement said.
September 24—Chile—Nine million people in the north and central region were affected by the 2011 Chile blackout which lasted for at least two hours.
Six states were affected (Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia), with Alabama, Tennessee, North Carolina and Georgia declaring states of emergency.
These are senior politicians who are now out of office and being freed from the system, are able to tell the truth.
This idea is supported by economist Robert Solow who claimed that four-fifths of US economic growth could be attributed to technological development (the other fifth being accounted for by expansion of labor and capital).
"The Impending World Energy Mess" (Apogee Prime) US Govt Sponsored Peak Oil Report Draws Disturbing Conclusions 29.
The Grocer trade magazine reported a loss of 12,500 EU drivers from the UK before the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, around 18% of the overall shortfall of 70,000 HGV drivers in Britain.
Some argue that this economic revolution's outcome was most significantly influenced by foreign consumer economies, while others focus on China's internal market developments.
That’s an eternity from now." The price of oil steadily climbed back to an average of $78.33 for the month of January 2010.
2005: OECD countries reached a peak per capita energy consumption of approximately 4.75 tonnes of oil equivalent (toe).
Coup d'état The prime minister, who was selected by the Shah and approved by the Majlis, was overthrown on 19 August 1953, following a coup d'état orchestrated by the United Kingdom and the United States.
2005 Malaysia—The 2005 Malaysia electricity blackout crisis caused electricity to fail in many states in Peninsular Malaysia, including Perak, Penang, Kedah, and Perlis.
A long-term pattern of overconsumption in any region or ecological system can cause a reduction in natural resources, often resulting in environmental degradation.
He founded the Kyoto Moain (later Kyoto Prefectural School for the Blind and Kyoto Prefectural School for the Deaf) in 1878, and developed the origins of Japanese Sign Language.
At the time, Lexington used exclusively oral education, but the students used sign language when instructors were not present.
He was an active worker in connection with the local institutions of Doncaster, and was a member of the committee for the establishment of a public free library for the town.
In 1834, his parents sent him at eight years of age to Institutet för dövstumma och blinda, Manillaskolan ('the Institute for the deaf-mute and blind', 'the Manilla School') in Stockholm.
She received intensive hearing and speech instruction through a partnership between home and school.
Malm knew there must be more potential deaf students, so he placed an advertisement for the school in the newspaper Borgå Tidning and later requested the Diocese of Porvoo to determine the number of deaf people in the country: 1,466, with 602 under the age of 20.
Newman was awarded on honorary doctor of letters degree by Gallaudet University in 1978 in recognition of his extensive advocacy efforts as an educator and writer.
In the end, he was unsuccessful as Cygnaeus believed it would set back the plan for public schooling.
Social inclusion of people with hearing disabilities In 1918 she was assigned as principal of the National School for the Deaf-Mutes.
References External links Official website Гость программы Борис Михайлович Бим-Бад, академик Российской Академии образования, педагог.
A collection of the most remarkable definitions and answers of Massieu and Clerc, deaf and dumb, to the various questions put to them, at the public lectures of the Abbé Sicard, in London.
Interviewed in 2016, he said: "I've had many jobs working in removals, gyms, swimming pools, security, etc, but now I make my living off teaching and touring my poetry...
His concern for providing a better education would begin the foundations of the Central Institute for the Deaf (CID).
Greene was mentioned in the City of Belleville's Heritage walking guide in recognition of his work in Deaf Education.
Career Rosen started her career as a rehabilitation counselor at the Department of Vocational Rehabilitation, working there from 1964 to 1966.
Awards and honors Gallaudet Distinguished Professor of the Year (1996) Professor Emerita at Gallaudet University Edward Miner Gallaudet Award (1992) == References ==
Through this, he argued that people with hearing disabilities are not "handicapped." This was an idea that was widely applauded and set the precedent for his struggles for the deaf community.
Biography Early life and education Helene Jarmer became deaf at the age of two as the result of an auto accident.
He also began doing computer programming and set up his own bulletin board system, as well as building computers for other deafblind people, instructing them in how to use adaptive technology.
One of six deaf siblings, he was denied schooling until age thirteen when he met Abbé Sicard, who enrolled him in the Institute national des jeunes sourds de Bordeaux-Gradignan, the Bordeaux School for Deaf Children.
He then tried other employment, but his services were again sought by the committee of the institution, when in a difficulty on the failure of their Swiss-born master to control the pupils.
In support of this contention, he sent an essay by one of his students, Bernhard Brill, and said that he doubted whether any non-disabled person "could match his lucid and incisive style." Deutsch became director when the school was transferred to Vienna in 1852.
In 1929, the second school building was constructed on South Euclid Avenue where CID expanded into adult auditory rehabilitation.
At this time the training standards for teachers of the deaf were raised, requiring two years of pre-professional college education and a two-year professional curriculum, to ensure the highest quality education possible for their deaf students.
In negotiations to form a new government, it was agreed that Munyenyembe would take on the speakership.
Goldstein had many memories of his friendship with Keller, but was always "particularly pleased" to recount the story detailing how he taught her to Fox Trot at a ball in Boston.
He entered cabinet just a few years later, becoming Minister for Information and Broadcasting in the government of Hastings Banda.
This organisation founded the Mission Church in Oak Road, Southampton (now demolished), for the continuation of their work in 1891.
In 1912, she participated in a delegation to discuss these ideas with the Minister for Public Instruction, but they were unsuccessful.
She graduated from the Maryland School for the Deaf and also went on to teach in that school for three years.
Previously, he served as President of the National Technical Institute for the Deaf and Vice President and Dean of Rochester Institute of Technology.
She also started to teach literacy classes to help address the number of students coming to the centre who were illiterate.
She wrote the book Life and Education of Laura Dewey Bridgman, the Deaf, Dumb, and Blind Girl (1884) about her experiences teaching Bridgman.
The Abbé Sicard managed to escape any serious harm in the political troubles of 1792, and became a member of the Institute in 1795, but the value of his educational work was hardly recognized till shortly before his death at Paris.
They soon encouraged their friends, Miss Hellman and Miss Humble, to start a Sunday school in Vaasa.
He was superintendent at the Indiana School for the Deaf (1845–1852) and the Louisiana School for the Deaf (1853–1860).
Borg made a trip to Portugal in 1823–1828, where he founded a school for the deaf; thereby Portugal was given the same manual alphabet as Sweden.
The facial scar later provided the basis for his name sign, performed with the manual alphabet for "U" (thumb out), with the pads of the two fingers stroked twice downward on the right cheek.
Frederick John Rose (21 September 1831 – 1 December 1920) was the Headmaster-Superintendent of Victorian School for Deaf Children (formerly the Victorian Deaf and Dumb Institution) from 1860 to 1891.
She was the Coordinator of Minority Achievement and Multicultural Program for Pre-college Programs at Gallaudet University.
The Clarke School's policy was to teach lip reading rather than sign language, which Goodhue agreed was beneficial for the students as it allowed them to participate in society.
Peter Atke Castberg (3 August 1779 – 30 April 1823) was a Danish professor and medical doctor who founded modern deaf education in Denmark.
His parents read lessons to him in the evenings and he completed assignments with a portable typewriter.
Louis Laurent Marie Clerc (French: [lɔʁɑ̃ klɛʁ]; 26 December 1785 – 18 July 1869) was a French teacher called "The Apostle of the Deaf in America" and was regarded as the most renowned deaf person in American deaf history.
Solomon is an American academic and president of the National Technical Institute for the Deaf whose teaching focuses on bringing deaf and hard-of-hearing students into the fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
His father, Ajay, wrote to Perkins School for the Blind, and with the financial help of a scholarship to the school, friends and relatives raised the money to send him to the United States.
Recognition In 2006, Vietnam Women's Union named Xậm "the woman who touched the heart of Vietnam" due to her efforts to get an education in light of her disability.
The relevant law was enacted by Christian IX on 17 April 1807, and the education of 10 students thus officially began at Det Kongelige Døvstumme-Institut i Kjøbenhavn ('the Royal Institute for the Deaf-Mute in Copenhagen').
Books Life at My Fingertips, (1958) Doubleday City of the Heart (poetry), (1966) Taplinger Shared Beauty (poetry), (1982) Portal Press References Helen Keller National Center - Robert Smithdas
Among those who gave positive reviews of The Perseverance, Kaveh Akbar said: "It's magic, the way this poet is able to bring together so much — deafness, race, masculinity, a mother's dementia, a father's demise — with such dexterity.
She attended a school for hard-of-hearing students after having been categorized by physicians as being hard of hearing.
Lessons for the Instruction of Deaf and Dumb Children in Speaking, Lip-Reading, Reading, and Writing.
In 2011 he published a history of the World Federation of the Deaf featuring achievements of the Deaf community and national organizations of the Deaf around the globe.
The general address of European schools was, American & Colonial Exchange, Carlton Street, Regent Street, S.
On 3 September 2012, Fianna Fáil and Sinn Féin tabled a motion of no confidence in Minister for Health James Reilly, after yet more cuts in the health service.
She was described as a tender mother to her students, as one of her goals with the school had been to see to their emotional needs as well.
Victor of Aveyron Itard is known as an educator of the deaf, and tried his educational theories in the celebrated case of Victor of Aveyron, dramatized in the 1970 motion picture The Wild Child directed by François Truffaut, who also played Itard.
He remained the institution's director until his death, training a generation of educators in the Oralist system.
It was not a textbook, but, in effect, an essay showing the importance of prompt attention in order that they may understand and make themselves understood in conversation.
He died at Doncaster 27 May 1874, and his old pupils erected a mural tablet to his memory in the institution where he had laboured so long.
He went on to teach at Gallaudet College, before moving to the Rochester Institute of Technology where he helped found the National Technical Institute for the Deaf (NTID).
Antonio Magarotto (30 June 1891 in Pojana Maggiore – 10 May 1966 in Rome) was an Italian educator, founder of the Ente Nazionale Sordi (ENS) and rector of the Padua Deaf institute.
Beatification process The cause for beatification commenced in 1960 under Pope John XXIII and Provolo became titled as a Servant of God; the informative process was launched in Verona to collect documentation and these were sent to the Congregation for Rites for further investigation.
His services to The Deaf Way conference also helped in shaping the deaf culture and setting the precedent for the emerging field of deaf studies.
In 2017, an Abenaki educator lobbied the Vermont Department of Libraries to pull Fisher's name from the children's literature award, which was created in the state over half a century ago.
"On Deaf-mutes, the Strange, and the Modern Deaf Self," in Culturally Affirming Psychotherapy with Deaf Persons, N.
From 1887 to 1891, she attended the local council school and then continued her education as a pupil-teacher at the Midland Deaf and Dumb Institution, later known as the Royal Institute for the Deaf and Dumb in her hometown.
Prior to the establishment of primary schooling in the late 1800s, Alopaeus' goal was to integrate deaf education with public education.
Life Early life Watson was educated in Hackney, London at the school of his uncle, Thomas Braidwood, and from 1784 he worked at the school.
He is remembered as one of the most ardent and visible advocates of American Sign Language (ASL) and was one of the first people to film ASL.
The award is an annual tribute to recognise a woman who has overcome challenges to accomplish extraordinary achievements that are both meaningful and beneficial to society.
Having grown up Deaf, I came to learn Sign Language relatively late, at the age of 23, while I was a graduate student at the University of Iowa.
Impressed with the manual method, Gallaudet studied teaching methodology under Sicard, learning sign language from Massieu and Clerc, who were both highly educated graduates of the school.
He married Benjamine Walgerda Heiberg (1845–1926) on 16 September 1869, the daughter of Caspar Cappelen Heiberg (1814–1855) and Emilie Christine Hansine Bjertnæs (1824–1865).
When opened on April 15, 1817, it was called the "Connecticut Asylum (at Hartford) for the Education and Instruction of Deaf and Dumb Persons", but it is now known as the American School for the Deaf.
This event launched Iosif's active and profound research into the particularities of the Russian Sign Language.
When Gorman returned to Australia, he took up a post at Monash University as a research fellow and lecturer in special education.
She continued to teach Sunday school even after later leaving the Baptist church for the Fria missionsförbundet.
His father was a skilled sailor and Gerry enjoyed boating with him from around 2 years old in Largs, Rhu and Inverkip.
In 1991, Zaitseva completed an internship in the United Kingdom at the University of Bristol's Centre for the Study of Deafness, where she studied bilingual approaches to Deaf education and participated in a project to teach Russian Sign Language to hearing people.
At age sixteen Peet passed the entrance exam for Harvard University but decided to travel with her father as his personal secretary.
Panara was very interested in the theater and developed some of the first plays for deaf actors and audiences.
After his return, Castberg sent a report to the government to draw attention to the need to establish an education establishment for the deaf.
Cesare Magarotto (1917–2006) was one of the founders of World Federation of the Deaf (WFD), its first General Secretary (1951–1987) and the son of Antonio Magarotto, the founder of the Italian National Agency for the Deaf (ENS).
In that role she was a frequent representative for the American Deaf community, including providing her expertise on the topic of cochlear implants for the show 60 Minutes in 1992.
Alan Hurwitz (born September 17, 1942) is an American educator who served as the tenth President of Gallaudet University from 2010 to 2015.
During World War II, she temporarily joined the military so she could help newly deafened soldiers injured in the war.
(with others) (1906) A Montessori Mother (1912) A Montessori Manual (1913) Mothers and Children (1914) Self-Reliance 1916 Life of Christ 1923 (by Giovanni Papini, freely trans.
Career Itard, without a university education and working at a Marseilles bank, was forced to enter the army during the French Revolution, but presented himself as a physician at that time.
His hearing began to fail at the end of high school and by his sophomore year in college he was completely deaf.
After that she taught for eleven years at the National Institute for the Deaf (Bundesinstitut für Gehörlosenbildung).
The next year, in 1885, he accepted a teaching position at the Colorado School for the Deaf, where he worked for seventeen years.
Bim-Bad, who had an EdD, was a professor and member of the International Philosophical and Cosmological Society.
Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet died in Hartford on September 10, 1851, aged 63, and was buried in Hartford's Cedar Hill Cemetery.
Seeing this, the Prior Provincial of the Discalced Carmelite friars permitted a postponement of her funeral for another 15 days.
(Paris: Charles Dounoil, 1873) Histoire et statistique de l’éducation des sourds-muets (Paris: chez l’auteur, 1836) Notice sur la vie et les ouvrages d’Auguste Bébian (Paris: J.
He was also the recipient of the Anne Sullivan Gold Medal Award, offered for outstanding service to the deafblind, and the Helen Keller Gold Medal for Literary Excellence.
Eventually following that call, on 1 September 1764, she formally submitted her request for admission to the assembled Discalced Carmelite nuns of the Monastery of St.
While attending graduate school, she learned American Sign Language (ASL) and became involved with the Deaf community.
Kanizsai, however, succeeded in keeping together his class of disabled children until the end of the war.
Goh has been a member of inclusive orchestra The Purple Symphony since 2015, wherein she plays the marimba.
He nevertheless gained a half-year stay at the school, impressing the authorities with his command of French orthography.
He is the second deaf Hispanic/Latino to receive a doctorate degree and the first to receive a doctorate from Gallaudet University.
Following her graduation, Xậm returned to the Ho Chi Minh City Vocational Centre for People with Disabilities and Orphans, where she started work as a librarian.
Tashiro Furukawa (古河太四郎, Furukawa Tashirō; March 27, 1845 – December 26, 1907) was a Japanese educator.
L'Épée died at the beginning of the French Revolution in 1789, and his tomb is in the Church of Saint Roch in Paris.
President Jordan became president of the university on March 13, 1988, after the Deaf President Now protest.
In 1942, she moved to New York, where she studied with the Viennese speech therapist and psychologist Emil Fröschels, and got to know the unisensory method.
In 1933, Fitzgerald moved to the Georgia School for the Deaf in Cave Spring and the following year took a post at the Texas School for the Deaf in Austin, where she remained for three years.
His parents were middle class and well educated, but struggled to find appropriate educational opportunities for their son.
From the age of two, he was coached in speech and lip reading by two specialised teachers: Dr Henriette Hoffer (from the Centre Médico-Pédagogique in Paris) and Doreen Hugo (of the Victorian Deaf and Dumb Institution), with whom he learnt to lip-read and speak in both English and French.
1909), was an American educator and writer best known as a teacher of Laura Bridgman, at the Perkins Institute for the Blind.
His efforts helped in increasing the employability of deaf teachers in deaf schools and promoting deaf leadership in both national and international educational organizations.
During her administration, a complete overhaul of the curriculum was made, shifting the emphasis from earlier elementary education to a focus on acquiring practical skills, especially speaking skills and learning a trade.
This made it possible for her to acquire a proper building for the school in 1866, and by 1872 the school was no longer in debt and reportedly filled a great need: in 1863, she had been forced to deny 75 students because of the costs.
Ammons became the 7th president of CISS in 2003, serving first as a stand-in President until 2005 following the death of the existing president, John Michael Lovett.
During her brief life of quiet service in the monastery, she came to be revered for her mystical gifts.
Malm fought for more support and his efforts were noted by Johan Vilhelm Snellman in the Swedish-language newspaper Saima.
Philipp Boltovsky, a husband and father of two, is a professional clarinetist and singer who performed with the Red Army Choir at the 2018 Olympics.
Following the example of l'Abbé de l'Épée founded by Charles-Michel de l'Épée in Paris, in 1809 he founded Allmänna institutet för döfstumma och blinda å Manilla (Public Institute of the Blind and Deaf at Manilla; Manillaskolan).
Both she and her brother were born deaf to deaf parents; they were raised learning American Sign Language and English.
The executive board at the deaf school in Trondheim was sceptical towards Balchen, apparently because of his lack of religious education.
He is a former president of the National Association of the Deaf (NAD), and has traveled and lectured extensively nationally and internationally.
The Memorial Cyclopedia of the Twentieth Century: Comprising Memoirs of Men and Women who Have Been Instrumental in the Progress of the Industries, Professions, Arts, Literature, Legislation, Society and Charities of the United States.
Throughout the memoir, it shows that Greene embraces the bilingual education philosophy and a big believer of connecting with his students to build trust first before he begins his teaching.
Exercises and Texts as an Aid in Dactylology and Facial Expression Based Translation: Textbook [2-nd edition, expanded and revised.] / I.F.
However, like Manually Coded Languages, L'Épée's system was cumbersome and unnatural to deaf signers.
For many years, he was the director of Services for the Deaf-Blind at the Industrial Home for the Blind in New York City.
In 1892, she opened her School of Articulation, not only for deaf children, but for all with defects of speech.
Quotes attributed to him "Let the Englishman have his coffee, and let me have my ham."—Jean Massieu "Gratitude is the memory of the heart", which has become a proverb in the French language.
A 2006 CBS News article featured his contributions to developing a Braille modified lap top phone, a tactile talking tablet, and a screen Braille communicator.
It was around this time that he first met Father Giovanni Frisoni who became his spiritual director and advised Provolo to begin his ecclesial studies.
See also Roch-Ambroise Auguste Bébian References This article incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain: Chisholm, Hugh, ed.
In the year of 1923, he obtained from the Mussolini government a law that enabled the deaf and blind people to attend elementary schools.
In addition to teaching at UCSD, he has been developing an experimental curriculum for teaching deaf children by applying bilingual teaching practices.
In his time away from work, Iosif was an avid gardener, a talented poet and an accomplished chess player.
Itard described pneumothorax in 1803; Laennec would provide a fuller description of the condition in 1819.
He was a pioneer of education for visual and hearing-impaired people in modern Japan, and has been called "the De l'Épée and Gallaudet of Japan".
Elizabeth English Benson (1904–1972) was an American educator for deaf students who taught at Gallaudet College for two decades before being named Dean of Women there.
After his graduation in 1866, Greene enrolled into National Deaf-Mute College (now Gallaudet University) on September 12, 1866, to pursue a Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) degree.
In the 1921 parliamentary election she was elected as a deputy member of the Storting for the term 1922–1924, representing the constituency of Christiania and an electoral list of the Free-minded Liberal Party and the Conservative Party.
On-campus, he was widely applauded for his successful efforts to increase funding, including funds for expanding and constructing two new large-scale centers for education research and support.
In 1840, she graduated with the first class of Lexington Normal School (now Framingham State University) and married Boston varnish gum importer Edwin Lamson (1811-1876) in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on June 22, 1846, her twenty-fourth birthday.
Mervin "Merv" Donald Garretson (July 25, 1923 – January 9, 2013) was an American educator, leader, and deaf community rights advocate.
The large bluestone was completed in 1867 and still stands on St Kilda Road, Melbourne, currently operated by Deaf Children Australia References Deaf Children Australia official website Victorian College for the Deaf official website
She was elected as a deputy member of the Storting in 1922, as one of the first women elected to the Norwegian parliament, and served as president of the Norwegian Association for Women's Rights from 1922 to 1926.
His uncle, Professor Max Isaakovich Bim-Bad (1914–1996), was the founder and first head of the Department of Economics of road facilities of the Moscow Automobile and Road Institute.
Retrieved 2007-12-25.{{cite web}}: CS1 maint: archived copy as title (link) See also References Further reading Denison, James.
Under his leadership, the association established the Normal School and Training College for Teachers in 1872.
She attended Worcester public schools before any state or federal laws required accommodations for deafness.
Likewise, she consulted the available material, and all of this allowed the production of this study plan and programs.
In 1932, on the day of Saint Anthony of Padua, together with his deaf friends, he founded the Italian National Agency for the Deaf where he was president from 1932 to 1950.
He was the chair of the World Council for the Welfare of the Blind Committee on Services to the Deaf-Blind.
Fisher Award from the Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE), the Larry Stewart Award from the American Psychological Association, and the Distinguished Leadership Award from the National Association for Community Leadership.
In 1844, he became a teacher at the Allgemeine österreichische israelitische Taubstummen-Institut in Nikolsburg, a school for deaf Jewish children established that year by philanthropist Hirsch Kolisch at the suggestion of Catholic priest Dr.
Writing In 2003, Ramos published "Triumph of the Spirit: The DPN Chronicle", about the history of deaf students at Gallaudet University.
Together with Randi Blehr and Cecilie Thoresen Krog, she was a co-signatory of a letter to the national government which called for women being admitted to the civil service.
Although the deaf and dumb had been gathered together in various institutions for forty years, no attempt had been made to provide such a course as they required.
He was critical of residential schools for the deaf, emphasizing the importance of allowing deaf students to interact with non-deaf individuals outside of school hours.
Career McCaskill served as a counselor at the Model Secondary School for the Deaf, at the Houston Community College System, and as a career counselor at Gallaudet University.
Because of the difficulty in finding teachers who had the necessary training to work with their students, Bryan used the pupil-teacher method under which she had been trained.
This afforded her a better quality of education, since in those days the schools for the deaf in Austria were not in the best condition, because none of them allowed sign language to be used for instructional purposes .
While at the RNID, Gorman began working with the anthropologist Sir Richard Paget to refine and develop a manually coded sign system, which Paget had originated in the 1930s.
"On deaf-mutes, the strange, and the modern Deaf self" in Culturally Affirming Psychotherapy with Deaf Persons.
Personal life Through his mother's lineage, Antrobus is distantly related to the English poet Thomas Gray.
Death In June 2005, Munyenyembe had a severe stroke in the speaker's chair while officiating on a motion to impeach President Bingu wa Mutharika.
In February 2022 Shortall, as spokesperson for Health, introduced a bill in the Dáil to stop the practice of the HSE sending debt collectors to cancer patients in search of payment.
At age 22, he graduated from Missouri Medical College (now Washington University School of Medicine) then served a one-year internship at the St.
The school was opened in his father's house at Kankurinkuja 5 and was the first school for the deaf in Finland.
The group also raised funds and awareness for other social causes and organisations, including old folks' homes and the Bone Marrow Donor Programme.
Gerry was a research associate for the British Sign Language Research Project (BSL) at Moray House College of Education working with Mary Brennan and Martin Colville.
Hurwitz has been active in a variety of professional and deafness-related organizations and serves on a number of boards of organizations serving deaf persons, including the Rochester School for the Deaf and the National Captioning Institute.
In 1902, she was one of the founders of the Queensland Adult Deaf and Dumb Mission and successfully organized a support group for parents.
At just twelve years old and with the help of her mother, she ran for the position of principal at her local school and won by competitive examination.
They formed the country's first teetotalism association in Jakobstad in 1877, attended by exclusively Baptists, including a number of children; the association caused so much controversy in the town that some students were expelled and the two were forced to leave their teaching jobs.
Newman (March 23, 1925 – July 4, 2011) was a prominent deaf activist, educator and author who served two terms as President of the National Association of the Deaf from 1986 to 1990.
Coolidge regretted how little writing was left by previous first ladies, and she began writing poetry and descriptions of her time in Washington, publishing them in magazines.
In 1803 Sicard became a member of the Académie française, occupying Seat 3 as the successor to the François-Joachim de Pierre de Bernis, who was a diplomat.
Castberg Prize Døvefonden, the Danish Deaf Foundation, has since 1970 awarded the Castberg Prize to individuals who further the cause of the deaf.
Life Panara was born in 1920 in The Bronx of New York City, and lost his hearing as a child from spinal meningitis.
Seminars, workshops, and publications See http://www.nbda.org/spotlight/dr.-carolyn-mccaskill for a list of seminars co-author of "The Hidden Treasure of Black ASL" (2011) Personal Life McCaskill grew up in the projects in Mobile, Alabama.
Veneration The disease that had caused Teresa Margaret's death left her body very swollen and disfigured.
Peet grew up as a CODA (child of deaf adult), as her mother, poet Mary Toles Peet, was deaf and used American Sign Language (ASL) to communicate.
After graduating from Penncrest High School in 1962, he enlisted in the US Navy and served four years.
She took his methods back to her home in Jakobstad and founded the Jakobstad school for the deaf Swedish-speaking population together with her father at his own expense.
He was influenced by his teacher Roch-Ambroise Auguste Bébian, a hearing man who had learned French Sign Language and published the first systematic study and defense of the language.
Her writing helped increase understanding of the Montessori method of child-rearing in the U.S.; she presided over the country's first adult education program; and her service as a member of the Book of the Month Club selection committee from 1925 to 1951 helped shape literary tastes in the U.S.
The Elizabeth Peet Award is given annually to an outstanding graduate student in school psychology at Gallaudet.
He achieved this distinction at New York University where he specialized in vocational guidance and rehabilitation of disabled people.
Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb In 1792 John Townsend, Henry Thornton, Henry Cox Mason, rector of Bermondsey, and others founded The Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb, financed by public subscription, making it the first charitable school for the deaf.
While a youth he was for a short time an assistant at the Deaf and Dumb Institution at Edgbaston, near Birmingham.
"Nearly all the survivors [among the deaf Hungarian Jews] had attended the Jewish school for deaf children on Mexico Square." After the war Kaniszai returned to academic and teaching duties and authored the definitive Hungarian-language textbooks on education for the deaf.
He was instrumental in founding the National Theater of the Deaf in connection with the American School for the Deaf.
During the summer sessions, she taught at normal schools in Kansas, Milwaukee and Virginia and in the summer of 1930, she taught in the summer faculty at Johns Hopkins University.
He also began a Dictionnaire général des signes, which was completed by his successor, Roch-Ambroise Cucurron Sicard.
Early life Humphries coined the term audism in an unpublished paper in 1975 and repeated the term in his doctoral PDE (Project Demonstrating Excellence) in 1977.
At the 2004 general election, at which Muluzi left office, Munyenyembe was re-elected to parliament, standing for the UDF in Chitipa North.
Hurwitz retired on December 31, 2015, with Roberta Cordano succeeding him as the eleventh president of Gallaudet University.
After her retirement in 2014, she continued to serve on multiple boards and wrote the children's book Deaf Culture Fairy Tales in 2017.
She also established a convalescent home for refugee French children from the invaded areas; continuing her relief work after the war, she earned citations of appreciation from Eleanor Roosevelt, Madame Chiang Kai-shek, and the government of Denmark.
Pär Aron Borg (4 July 1776 – 22 April 1839) was a Swedish educator and a pioneer in the education for the blind and deaf.
: Gallaudet University Press, 1989 ISBN 0930323548 OCLC 18836090 Through Deaf Eyes : a Photographic History of an American Community.
Peet taught multiple subjects, including English, Latin, and French, as well as sign language to hearing students and faculty.
He and his wife followed the class during its first forced relocation, from the School for the Deaf to the Orphanage.
She graduated as a teacher from the Nissen Higher School for Young Women in Kristiania (now Oslo) and was then employed as a teacher at Nissen's Girls' School.
He received his early education from the Colorado School for the Deaf and his bachelor's degree from Gallaudet College, Washington D.C.
His presence was a huge thing for me – being able to lie on his chest and feel his vibrations as he would read the story, there was a dimension of comfort and closeness in that.
Awards She was given the gold royal medal För medborgerlig förtjänst (In Service of the State) and a pension from the state.
Ammons was also the former President of the Comite International des Sports des Sourds (CISS) from 2003 to 2009.
Bhattacharyya graduated from the University of Arkansas at Little Rock in 1998 with a bachelor's degree in political science.
He appears in both the 2011 disability rights documentary Lives Worth Living, and the 2025 documentary Deaf President Now.
His pupils became teachers in the schools for the deaf of New York City, London, Budapest, and Lemberg, and the leading Jewish schools for deaf children were influenced by his work.
In 1860, she founded one of the first schools for the deaf and mute in her country: Tysta Skolan (Silent School) in Stockholm.
Career Teaching Following his graduation from the National College, Veditz returned to the Maryland School for the Deaf as a teacher.
Iosif's parents, Florian and Elizaveta Geilman, were deaf, but commanded spoken language as well as sign language.
He began his career there in 1950 after graduating with a Bachelor of Arts Degree, cum laude, from St.
In 1841, Lamson replaced Lydia Drew as the primary teacher and companion of deafblind student Laura Bridgman, a position which she held until her marriage to Edwin Lamson in 1846.
Against the odds, Xậm graduated high school at the age of 27 In 2006, after graduating high school, Xậm moved to Ho Chi Minh City to study at the Ho Chi Minh City Vocational Centre for People with Disabilities and Orphans.
Working with colleagues from the University of Washington, Solomon developed a database of the technical signs used in American Sign Language for scientific terminology in an effort to standardize the lexicon.
Family His son Thomas James Watson was principal of the school until 1857; Thomas's son James Harrison Watson succeeded him.
She went on a tour of California for Pi Beta Phi that year, but her trip ended early when she received a telegram informing her that her husband was a candidate to be lieutenant governor of Massachusetts.
Her mother was deaf and raised to speak, read, and write English; she was also a trained golfer, following in her parents' footsteps.
Biography Xậm was born in Long Mỹ district, Hậu Giang province, within the Mekong Delta, the third of six children born to labourer parents.
Shortall addressed the Dáil during this motion and did not indicate her support for him or mention his name once, though she did vote against the motion.
Sicard's chief works were his Eléments de grammaire générale (1799), Cours d'instruction d'un sourd-muet de naissance (1800) and Traité des signes pour l'instruction des sourds-muets (1808).
She served at the Wisconsin School for the Deaf in Delavan, Wisconsin for 17 years and then, in 1921, taught at the Louisiana School for the Deaf.
Gallaudet's father, Peter Wallace Gallaudet, was a personal secretary to US President George Washington, when the office of the President was located in Philadelphia.
Watson is known to have trained Robert Kinniburgh who became head of Braidwood Academy in Edinburgh in 1813.
For example, the word croire ("believe") was signed using five separate signs—four with the meanings "know", "feel", "say", and "not see" and one that marked the word as a verb (Lane, 1980:122).
Boris Mikhailovich Bim-Bad (Russian: Борис Михайлович Бим-Бад; 28 December 1941 – 1 March 2023) was a Soviet and Russian teacher and member of the Russian Academy of Education.
He travelled to Victoria, Australia, with his brother during the 1850s gold rush, but after no initial success, the brothers worked in construction.
The school developed into one of the leading schools of its kind in Europe, and was one of the first schools for deaf children which started an intensive auditory education program, thanks to its close co-operation with otologist Viktor Urbantschitsch.
Younglof was fitted with one of the first wearable miniature electron tube-hearing aids (vacuum-tube hearing aid), which came on the market in the 1940s.
Balchen visited some of the most important German deaf schools, and met among others the teacher and inspector Friedrich Moritz Hill at the deaf school in Weißenfels.
Galina Lazarevna Zaitseva (Russian: Галина Лазаревна Зайцева; 12 October 1934 – 6 August 2005) was a Russian teacher known for her research of sign language and Deaf history and culture.
He was the guardian and mentor of Johanna Berglind (1816–1903), also an important figure in the history of the education of the deaf in Sweden.
Provolo collaborated with Saint Giovanni Antonio Farina since both men were dedicated towards the field of education.
See also Andreas Christian Møller, founder of the school for the deaf in Trondheim Elias Hofgard, founder of the school for the deaf in Hamar Norwegian Sign Language Footnotes == References ==
After having seen a play where a deaf boy communicated by gestures, he was inspired to create a manual alphabet.
Sunday school In 1861, Heikel and her sister Sofia Antoinetta (Netta) founded one of the first free church Sunday schools in the country.
His paternal grandfather was Chatham-born officer of the Royal Navy Robert Pearce, and Sarah née Seward, both of Southampton.
In his teenage years he was involved with a group of deaf sailors in the south of England and sailed across the English Channel.
Louis, Missouri, was the chairwoman of the committee of the Daughters of the American Revolution who conceptually conceived the Madonna of the Trail monuments.
Pierre Gorman purchased an Airedale Terrier, Ch Tjuringa Paul, in 1970, and became active in the breed, enjoying Paul's success at dog shows.
After her retirement, she volunteered at the Edith Bryan Hostel, a facility that offered housing and medical assistance to deaf citizens.
Education PhD, Gallaudet University, Special Education Administration & Supervision (2005) M.A., Counseling of the Deaf (1979) B.A., Psychology-Social Work (1977) Prior to college, McCaskill attended and graduated of the Alabama School for the Deaf in Talladega, Alabama.
On her own, she taught in Virginia,Her influence also extended beyond the Gallaudet Campus as she lent her considerable skills and knowledge to training African American instructors at the Hampton Institute in Virginia.
He later met Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet while traveling in England, and invited him to visit the school.
After working as a health officer at a military hospital in Soliers, he was given the role of surgeon third class in the Army of Italy.
Gannon was selected in 2014 as one of Gallaudet's "Visionary Leaders," fifteen prominent alumni honored to celebrate the university's 150th anniversary.
He was willing to go through many trials and tribulations because if he could get the Golden Fleece, the throne in the kingdom of Greece would be his.
The Turku school for the deaf and Alopaeus' work were noted in an 1868 report by the United States Secretary of the Interior, who remarked on the focus on instruction in sign language and written text, unusual at the time.
The work which I present to the public is nothing other than a second edition of the one which came out in 1776 under the title 'Institution des Sourds et Muets, par la voie des Signes méthodiques', which is completely sold out.
Moss visualized a statue similar to one she had seen in Oregon of Sacagawea, the Shoshone woman who guided Lewis and Clark on their search for a water route to the Pacific Ocean.
She has also taught Spanish in the department of foreign languages and literature at Gallaudet University, a university serving the deaf.
After the usual prayers had been gone through, the teacher commented at considerable length, by means of gestures, on the 11th Chapter of the 1st of Samuel, his audience seeming to comprehend every idea which he sought to convey ...
Dezső Kanizsai (27 January 1886 – 27 November 1981) was a Hungarian audiologist and educator of deaf children.
In 1969, she defended her dissertation, entitled "Expression of spatial relationships in the facial-gestural speech of the Deaf".
"Talking culture and culture talking" in Open Your Eyes, Dirksen Bauman, ed., University of Minnesota Press.
The year 1893 was marked by the invention of a method of Expression Reading, the thing that made her name noteworthy.
He initially taught at the Taiken Primary School in Kyoto and began teaching deaf students there in 1873.
Although the book can be read purely for pleasure, it also describes a schoolhouse which is run much in the style of the Montessori method.
At one time, her system was so widely used that three-quarters of the schools in the United States teaching those with hearing difficulties used it.
An early proponent of bilingual education for the Deaf, he was the author of two books: Sands of Time: NAD Presidents 1880-2003, and I Fill this Small Space: The Writings of a Deaf Activist.
After reading a letter written by the widowed mother of a deaf child that published in Melbourne's The Argus in 1859, Rose took an interest in educational services for disabled children in the colony.
On 17 February 1870, Deutsch survived an attempted murder by a teacher named Isaac Bardach, who had been severely reprimanded by Deutsch for whipping several of the children unmercilessly.
An Historical Account of the Discovery and Education of a Savage Man, Or of the First Developments, Physical and Moral, of the Young Savage Caught in the Woods Near Aveyron, in the Year 1798.
His parlour pupils included Matthew Burns, a teacher and evangelist who set up his own schools for the deaf, and Francis Maginn, a co-founder of the British Deaf Association.
Work Beebe was a pioneer of the "unisensory approach" developed by Fröschels, now known as the auditory-verbal approach.
See also Ferdinand Berthier Roch-Ambroise Auguste Bébian References External links Massieu, Jean; Laurent Clerc; and Roch Ambroise Cucurron Sicard.
Awards and honors Solomon was recognized with the 2013 Distinguished Faculty Award from Gallaudet and in 2017 by the Association for the Sciences of Limnology and Oceanography's Ramón Margalef Award for Excellence in Education for her innovations to teaching.
At the same time that she served as principal of the school, she continued to teach manual labor classes, particularly teaching sewing.
The American Library Association honored his contribution to the advancement of library service for people who are blind or physically disabled with the Francis Joseph Campbell Award in 1978.
The couple married in the parlor of the Goodhue family's home on October 4, 1905, with fifteen guests in attendance.
Peet served as the president of the New York Institution for the Deaf for decades, while her father Isaac Lewis Peet grew up on the campus and would later become president of the same institution.
Honors Streets in five Italian cities were named in honor of Magarotto: Pojana Maggiore, Padua, Rome, Abano Terme and Alcamo.
Sicard invited Gallaudet to Paris to study the school's method of teaching the deaf using manual communication.
During the 1980s, her doctoral research, entitled "Sign speech in the system of teaching and upbringing of adult Deaf people", caused debate in the scientific and pedagogical community; Zaitseva successfully defended her thesis in 1988.
Her research focuses on the ecological effects that occur when algae, bacteria, and viruses interact with nitrogen byproducts from agricultural production and other human activity.
He was sent to a deaf school, the Tommaso Pendola Institute in Siena where he learned to speak and lipsread.
page 102.) The Diary of Laurent Clerc's Voyage from France to America in 1816 Archived 2016-03-03 at the Wayback Machine (West Hartford, CT: American School for the Deaf, 1952).
A bust (made by Juho Talvia) was erected in 1926 on the site where the school for the deaf had operated in Porvoo.
Castberg encouraged Norwegian Andreas Christian Møller – who had studied at the institute from 1810 to 1815 as there were no schools for the deaf in Norway – to work there as a teacher, which he did from 1817 to 1822, becoming the first deaf teacher of the deaf in the Nordic countries.
In 1985, Lafayette College awarded Beebe an honorary doctorate in Human Sciences for her life's work as a teacher, scientist and pioneer of auditory-verbal therapy.
If deaf people could get an education, their minds would be set free and the kingdom of the world would be theirs." References External links National Association of the Deaf press release, Monday, July 11, 2011.
In her 1953 book, A Guide to Help the Severely Hard of Hearing Child, she wrote: Lip reading should be avoided as much as possible at home and in therapy.
Her school was highly regarded: three of her female students were to serve as teachers at the later public schools for the elderly deaf and mute.
Panara (8 July 1920 - 20 July 2014) was a poet, a professor and a co-founder of the National Technical Institute for the Deaf (NTID) and the National Theater of the Deaf.
Political career In 1988, she joined the Labour Party and was first elected at the 1991 Dublin Corporation election for the local electoral area of Drumcondra.
In 1860, Rose began teaching pupils in a small house in Windsor, a suburb of Melbourne, however the number of students continued to grow, causing the location to change several times.
Pamphlets 2012: Shapes & Disfigurements of Raymond Antrobus – chapbook (Burning Eye Books) 2017: To Sweeten Bitter – chapbook, Foreword by Margaret Busby (Outspoken Press) Books 2018: The Perseverance (Penned in the Margins, ISBN 9781908058522) 2020: Can Bears Ski?
Entrepreneurship Goh founded ExtraOrdinary Horizons in 2011, as a social enterprise under the auspices of StarHub's Entrepreneurs With Disabilities programme.
According to the plans of the Final Solution, this was only a stopover before shipment to camps in the Hungarian countryside and ultimately to extermination camps.
As she reflected on this, she felt that she suddenly received an unspoken message from the foundress of the Order, the noted Carmelite mystic and foundress, Teresa of Avila.
Despite losing his seat in the National Assembly, Munyenyembe remained involved in politics, with President Bakili Muluzi appointed him to the position of Minister of State for Presidential Affairs.
Legacy Fitzgerald's seminal work 'Straight Language for the Deaf: A System of Instruction for Deaf Children' was published in 1926 and was widely influential in the field of deaf education.
When Monserrate became pregnant with Ángel, her husband demanded that she have an abortion or he would divorce her.
In 1870, van Praagh became director of the Association for the Oral Instruction of the Deaf and Dumb, a nonsectarian institution founded by Juliana Baroness Mayer de Rothschild.
Legacy Benson was inducted as a member of the Gallaudet College Hall of Fame (date unknown) Gallaudet University's first co-ed dormitory on campus, built in 1972, was named in her honor.
ASL festival Since 1997, Veditz has been remembered by the George Veditz ASL Festival, dedicated to celebrate the wealth of sign language with literary poetry and stories.
During that time he received a Fulbright Scholar Award and was assigned to Colombia to improve the delivery of educational services to students who are deaf and hard of hearing.
In 1815 he traveled with Sicard and Massieu to Britain to give a lecture and met Thomas Hopkins Gallaudet, who was traveling in search of means for instructing deaf children.
Deaf community work In late 1837, Berthier petitioned the French government for permission to create the Société Centrale des Sourds-muets (the Central Society for Deaf-mutes), which was officially founded the following year.
She has performed in the annual Purple Symphony yearly concert, numerous iterations of The Purple Parade, and in the 2017 Singapore National Day Parade.
She felt restricted by the role of first lady; she believed that it took priority over her own interests, and she was subject to many rules imposed on her by her husband.
The Library of Congress announced on December 28, 2011, that it had named the landmark 1913 film, The Preservation of the Sign Language, for inclusion in the National Film Registry.
Frances Aslatt was the daughter of John Aslatt, liveried coach manufacturer of Above Bar, later high sheriff of Southampton 1845–1846, and his wife Hester Martha Colson.
She used the sign for "hare" as her sign name, with her surname coming from the Russian word "zaiats", meaning "hare"; she was affectionately known as "Professor Zaiats".
She graduated as a mainstream student from the Technical High School (Höhere Technische Lehranstalt) of the Ungargasse Education Center (Schulzentrum Ungargasse) in Vienna, Austria.
There he learned to read and write French, and later helped develop the first formalized French Sign Language.
The State Library of Victoria awards the biennial Pierre Gorman Award to Australian libraries or librarians for achievements in services and education to people with disabilities.
Ramos held a teaching position at Lamar University in Beaumont, Texas and was Director of the Gallaudet University Regional Center in Texas.
She has been teaching at Gallaudet University since 1996, currently holds the position of professor in the ASL and Deaf Studies Department, and since 2005, she is the Coordinator of the Deaf Studies Program.
In the book's preface, Lamson wrote that she published the book in response to requests for a published account of Bridgman's life and education from Howe, Dr.
Early life Born in 1803 in the town of Louhans, Saône-et-Loire, France, Berthier first attended the Institut National de Jeunes Sourds de Paris as a young student in 1811, when the school was under the directorship of Abbé Roch-Ambroise Sicard.
Out in the Atlantic, a few days later, the battery power failed again, resulting is the loss of use of his navigation lights, generator, laptop computer and mobile phone.
Rosalyn collaborated with Jack on all of his writing projects; they have two children, Christine and Jeff.
In 1989 Gannon received the Laurent Clerc Award, presented by Gallaudet for "outstanding contributions to society." In 2011 Jack and Rosalyn Gannon received the International Solidarity Merit Award, First Class from the World Federation of the Deaf.
In 1860, Léon Vaïsse, director of Institut National de Jeunes Sourds de Paris, was the society's secretary.
On 2 July 2024, she and Murphy both announced that they would not contest the next general election.
Bim-Bad was a graduate of Moscow State Pedagogical Institute and the Rector of the Russian Open University, later transformed into the University of the Russian Academy of Education.
James Smedley Brown (September 10, 1819 – 1863) was a nineteenth-century American educator of the deaf who is credited with the publication of the first dictionary of American Sign Language.
The Elizabeth Benson Scholarship Award by Registry of Interpreters for the Deaf, was named in her honor.
Biography Samuel Thomas Greene was born on June 11, 1843, in Portland, Maine to hearing parents, Jacob and Sarah Greene.
Alopaeus and Heikel would later travel to the area of Lappmarken in the summer of 1866, where together they instructed the deaf.
Gerry went on to found a school for hearing and deaf people called ‘Quest for Language’ while at the same time studying towards a degree in mathematics from the Open University.
He might have even wanted to have become a Carmelite friar had it not been for the Napoleonic suppression of religious orders.
Upon graduation from high school, she enrolled at Harvard University, studying both environmental science and public policy.
In the following evening, he fell into unconsciousness and died fourteen days later on February 17, 1890.
In that year, 40 of the inmates were of unknown origin, and 31 were of vague origin, where only the county or country were known.
She was one of five women elected to the parliament, four of whom were deputy members and the fifth was Norway's first permanent MP, Karen Platou, who represented the same party list and the same constituency as Lampe.
In conjunction with his work at Helen Keller National Center, he was an advocate for deaf-blind education and employment.
Provolo was named as Venerable on 27 February 2017 after Pope Francis confirmed that the late priest lived a life of heroic virtue.
During a snowball Earth, iridium would accumulate on the ice sheets, and when the ice melted the resulting layer of sediment would be rich in iridium.
Material shifted by subsequent earthquakes and the waves reached to what are now Texas and Florida, and may have disturbed sediments as far as 6,000 kilometers (3,700 mi) from the impact site.
The term "Elatina glaciation" is, however, still used today, for the period beginning around 640 Mya.
Two archaeologists who were featured in the first season, Katya Stroud, a senior curator at Heritage Malta, and Necmi Karul, the director of excavations at Göbekli Tepe, said that their interviews were manipulated and presented out of context.
Assuming an impact origin, other possible ways of dating the event include looking for evidence of ejecta material such as tektites, and deposits from the hypothesised tsunami, which might be found anywhere around the North Sea basin.
Gerrothorax, the last known plagiosaurid, has been found in rocks which are probably (but not certainly) Rhaetian, while a capitosaur humerus was found in Rhaetian-age deposits in 2018.
The spike has been predominantly observed in North America, with just one observance outside the continent in Japan.
Some major regressions of the past, however, seem unrelated to glaciation episodes, with the regression that accompanied the mass extinction at the end of the Cretaceous being one example.
Scientists realized that hydrogen would escape into space through a process called methane photolysis, in which methane decomposes under the action of ultraviolet light in the upper atmosphere and releases its hydrogen.
The Caledonian Mountains were also growing across what is now the Scottish Highlands and Scandinavia, while the Appalachians rose over America.
The Cambrian–Ordovician extinction event ended the Cambrian period, and led into the subsequent Ordovician period.
They argue that these lakes are the remains of multiple-kilometer-high waves that penetrated deeply into continents as the result of oceanic strikes that they proposed occurred.
Second, the pathogen must have a high infection rate, such that it is able to infect virtually all individuals of all ages and sexes encountered.
References External links Planet in Peril Interview with Sanjay Gupta, Jeff Corwin and Anderson Cooper on Planet in Peril
In the Hirnantian stage the volcanism diminished, and the continued weathering caused a significant and rapid draw down of CO2 coincident with the rapid and short ice age.
According to the Shiva hypothesis, the Earth is subject to increased asteroid impacts about once every 27 million years because of the Sun's passage through the plane of the Milky Way galaxy, thus causing extinction events at 27 million year intervals.
Courrier International notes that Hancock's claims are never questioned on screen: in Ancient Apocalypse, he calls the archaeologists "pseudo-experts" and repeats that they treat him patronizingly, but he does not name them nor explains their arguments.
In Bartoszyce, benthic faunas did not experience an extinction synchronous with the graptolite crisis, and experienced a spike in abundance during the post-extinction period believed to be related to the decline in eutrophication.
Naming The term is derived from the town of Dresbach which is located in southeastern Minnesota on the Mississippi River.
Purported evidence and rebuttals The 2007 paper resulted in cross-disciplinary relevant scientific rebuttals, including from many geologists, astronomers, archaeologists, and paleoecologists.
Effects The Šilalė Event resulted in a decline in conodont diversity and a corresponding increase not just in the diversity of brachiopods but in their absolute abundance as well.
Coprolitic evidence indicates that freshwater food webs had recovered by the early Ladinian, with a lacustrine coprolite assemblage from the Ordos Basin of China providing evidence of a trophically multileveled ecosystem containing at least six different trophic levels.
This suggests that the absence of megafaunal methane emissions may have contributed to the abrupt climatic cooling at the onset of the Younger Dryas.
Under high greenhouse gas emissions, at most a few high-Arctic populations will remain by 2100: under more moderate scenario, the species will survive this century, but several major subpopulations will still be wiped out.
It comprises eight extinction "datum points"—the first four being regularly spaced, every 30,797 years, and linked to the Milankovic obliquity cycle.
sulcipeculiaris Oriozabala, Sterli & De La Fuente 2020 - Late Cretaceous La Colonia Formation, Argentina References Further reading Alarcón Muñoz, J., S.
The oxygen reacted with the methane to form carbon dioxide and water, both much weaker greenhouse gases than methane, greatly reducing the efficacy of the greenhouse effect, especially as water vapor readily precipitated out of the air with dropping temperature.
Soft tissue anatomy The soft part anatomy of Sunella was previously poorly known, but was thoroughly described for S.
As the ejecta cloud cleared and sunlight returned to the Earth, plants, especially ferns, began to flourish once more.
These patterns are explained by the theory of insular biogeography, a concept that explains how evolution progresses when populations are restricted into isolated pockets.
The end of the Devonian Period had extremely widespread trap magmatism and rifting in the Russian and Siberian platforms, which were situated above the hot mantle plumes and suggested as a cause of the Frasnian / Famennian and end-Devonian extinctions.
Loydell suggests many causes of the isotopic excursion, including increased carbon burial, increased carbonate weathering, changes in atmospheric and oceanic interactions, changes in primary production, and changes in humidity or aridity.
References Further reading io9.com: "Why did nearly all life on Earth die 250 million years ago ?" Vancouversun.com: "Canadian researchers spearhead fossil discovery of resilient prehistoric animal."
The end of the Šilalė Event corresponds to the beginning of the Delotaxis detorta conodont biozone, a conodont biozone once erroneously thought to have corresponded to the latest Přídolí.
The findings are that second-order predation is more consistent with extinction than is overkill (results graph at left).
In addition, the formation of salt lakes and salt flats is neither synchronous nor consistent with the hypothesized impacts having occurred about either 9,640 BP or 5,150 BP.
This is further evidence of a major blow to ecosystems of the time – such deposits can only form in conditions similar to those of the early Cambrian period, when life as we know it was only just becoming established.
Those later events involved flexure folding and the northward movement of the Northern Calcareous Alps resulting in it overlying areas of the molasse deposits of Miocene age.
Discovery The crater-like structure was discovered by petroleum geoscientists Simon Stewart and Philip Allen.
The fifth and sixth probably reflect maxima in the precessional cycles, with periods of around 16.5 and 19 ka.
Eutherocephalians radiated very rapidly after the extinction event and increased in both disparity and diversity, filling niches left vacant by scylacosaurids and lycosuchids.
In 2016, a scientific drilling project drilled deep into the peak ring of the impact crater, hundreds of meters below the current sea floor, to obtain rock core samples from the impact itself.
In the later case, he proposes that their purpose was to pass on the knowledge of these pre-cataclysm civilisations, with their builders being the book's titular "magicians of the gods".
The second, larger pulse, the Toarcian Oceanic Anoxic Event (TOAE), was a global oceanic anoxic event, representing possibly the most extreme case of widespread ocean deoxygenation in the entire Phanerozoic eon.
It has been suggested that this was caused by climate change associated with the earliest polar glaciations and a major fall in sea levels, or by competition with taxa dispersing from Asia.
Correspondingly, shallow-water reefs were barely affected, while pelagic and hemipelagic organisms such as the graptolites, conodonts and trilobites were hit hardest.
Effects The Aptian event is most readily detected among marine deposits rather than terrestrial fossil deposits.
Organisms from the lower Cambrian, such as Thaumaptilon, were once thought to be Ediacarans, but this hypothesis no longer has many adherents.
Leonardo DiCaprio and Nina Dobrev serve as executive producers, with Lionsgate, Pilgrim Media Group and Appian Way Productions producing and Discovery+ distributing.
Labyrinthodont amphibians were particularly devastated, while the amniotes (the first members of the sauropsid and synapsid groups) fared better, being physiologically better adapted to the drier conditions.
As the methane reached the atmosphere, the earth became even warmer, which led to the extinction of even more lifeforms on land.
Some writers have attempted to explain this event in terms of climate or sea level change – perhaps arising due to a build-up of glaciers; however, such factors alone do not appear to be sufficient to explain the events.
Dinosaurs: The Final Day with David Attenborough (titled Dinosaur Apocalypse in the U.S.) is a British documentary programme that aired on BBC One on 15 April 2022.
Higher resolution δ13C isotope analysis identifies differences in the organic and carbonate carbon isotope curves (Δ13C), allowing the inference of a sustained drop in CO2 levels coincident with the extinction once sedimentological data are taken into account.
Only the hardiest and most fortunate animals and plants can survive the relentless flames and smoke that enshroud the planet, giving rise to a nuclear winter; for small animals, one of the best methods to escape the horrendous aftereffects of the impact was to build burrows.
Early estimates indicated a loss of marine invertebrate genera between 35 and 47%, while an estimate published in 2016 suggested a loss of 33–35% of marine genera when corrected for background extinction, the Signor–Lipps effect and clustering of extinctions in certain taxa.
The proposals include both catastrophic and gradual processes (similar to those theorized for the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event, but with much less current consensus).
He links this to the construction of various ancient monuments, including Göbekli Tepe, Baalbek, the Great Sphinx and the Pyramids of Giza, some of which Hancock claims to be much older than mainstream archaeologists determined.
The positive δ13C excursion found at the Cenomanian-Turonian boundary is one of the main carbon isotope events of the Mesozoic.
Similar fossils have been found at other formations in China but they are relatively uncommon and poorly studied and therefore cannot be confidently assigned to this genus or even Sunellidae.
It was the Phanerozoic Eon's largest extinction: 53% of marine families died, 84% of marine genera, about 81% of all marine species and an estimated 70% of terrestrial vertebrate species.
Immediately after the extinction event, geological records from Bartoszyce evidence a sharp slowdown of ocean mixing.
Although there are other glacial deposits recognized throughout the world at this time, the Huronian is restricted to the region north of Lake Huron, between Sault Ste.
The Julian-Tuvalian boundary experienced high extinction rates among many marine invertebrates, while an extinction among land vertebrates was suggested to occur in the late Carnian.
Arguments offered for this mechanism include the lack of extraterrestrial material at the event site, the lack of a credible impact structure, and the presence of shocked quartz in surface outcrops.
Their body consisted entirely of soft tissues, except for an assortment of phosphatic elements believed to be their feeding apparatus.
The book appeared on the New York Times Best Seller list in the category "Religion, Spirituality and Faith" in December 2015.
Moreover, a 2006 report by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations, Livestock's Long Shadow, also found that the livestock sector is a "leading player" in biodiversity loss.
Possible first appearance of plate tectonic activity in the Earth's crust as plate structures may have begun appearing.
They found evidence for a signal showing an excess extinction rate with a 27-million-year periodicity, now going back 500 million years, and at a much higher statistical significance than in the older work.
Extinctions by severity Extinction events can be tracked by several methods, including geological change, ecological impact, extinction vs.
Nonetheless, despite increased origination intensities and decreased extinction intensities near the end of the "cat-gap" (20–16 Ma), there was still no substantial invasion of hypercarnivorous morphospace until the immigration of felids into North America.
A long-term local effect of the impact was the creation of the Yucatán sedimentary basin which "ultimately produced favorable conditions for human settlement in a region where surface water is scarce".
Casualties The mechanism responsible for the event originated in the deep oceans, and made its way into the shallower shelf seas.
He therefore supposes that they were constructed by theorized civilisations destroyed by the Younger Dryas impact event, or else the survivors of the event and their immediate descendants.
However, species of Hindeodus were among the least abundant fossils (less than 0.25 specimens per kilogram of sample).
The metaphor refers to the mythological Medea (representing the Earth), who kills her own children (multicellular life).
Perceived extinction in the conodont fauna, however, likely represent a change in the depositional environment of sedimentary sequences rather than a genuine biological extinction.
Because both these groups disappear abruptly at the end of the Ediacaran period, 538.8 ± 0.2 million years ago, their disappearance cannot simply represent the closure of a preservational window, as had previously been suspected.
Older hypotheses have proposed that gradual changes in climate and sea levels may have been the cause, or perhaps one or more asteroid strikes.
Finally, even the lower warming levels of 1.5–2 °C (2.7–3.6 °F) would "profoundly" reduce geographical ranges of the majority of the world's species, thus making them more vulnerable than they would have been otherwise.
A fern spike is characterized by a suddenly higher abundance of fern spores following a disaster, generally accompanied by a decrease in other plant species as indicated by their pollen.
The groups with the highest survival rates generally had active control of circulation, elaborate gas exchange mechanisms, and light calcification; more heavily calcified organisms with simpler breathing apparatuses suffered the greatest loss of species diversity.
750 Ma): first thought to be a major glaciation of Earth, however, the Kaigas formation was later determined to be non-glacial.
The effect of the ecological crisis on terrestrial plants has been concluded to have been inconsequential, in contrast to extinction events driven by terrestrial large igneous provinces.
In particular, the ages of some of the possibly related craters are only known to an accuracy of a few million years.
However, some tempered their skepticism as further evidence came out in support of the impact hypothesis.
neanderthalensis and Denisovans, survived the Toba eruption and subsequent MIS 4 ice age, as their latest presence is dated to ca.
The Medea hypothesis is a term coined by paleontologist Peter Ward for a hypothesis that contests the Gaian hypothesis and proposes that multicellular life, understood as a superorganism, may be self-destructive or suicidal.
During the Marinoan glaciation, characteristic glacial deposits indicate that Earth suffered one of the most severe ice ages in its history.
Attenborough revisits the East African Virunga Mountains, where he interacted with mountain gorillas for his documentary series Life on Earth (1979).
It follows Roth and a group of scientists, activists, and researchers who travel around the world exposing the extinction of sharks.
920–850 Ma) redefines Gascoyne Complex: consists of reactivation of earlier formed faults in the Gascoyne – folding and faulting of overlying Edmund and Collier basins c.
On the early Earth, there was visibly very little oxidative weathering of continents (e.g., a lack of red beds), and so the weathering sink on oxygen would have been negligible compared to that from reduced gases and dissolved iron in oceans.
During the proposed episode of snowball Earth, there are rapid and extreme negative excursions in the ratio of 13C to 12C.
Coal swamp recovery Coal swamps recovered in the early Carnian, about 15 million years after their demise in the Permian-Triassic mass extinction.
The extinction event had two main pulses, the first being the Pliensbachian-Toarcian boundary event (PTo-E).
"Conjuring Up a Lost Civilization: An Analysis of the Claims Made by Graham Hancock in Magicians of the Gods".
The Day the Earth Nearly Died is a British documentary produced by BBC to the science and philosophy series Horizon in 2002.
This mountain-building may have also enhanced biological sequestration through an increase in nutrient runoff.
Spore availability Fern spikes cannot occur without ferns already existing in the area, so spikes occur primarily in regions where ferns are already a prominent part of the ecosystem.
Post-discovery investigations Geophysical data Two seismic reflection datasets have been acquired over the offshore parts of the crater since its discovery.
For this reason, well-documented extinction events are confined to the Phanerozoic eon – with the sole exception of the Oxygen Catastrophe in the Proterozoic – since before the Phanerozoic, all living organisms were either microbial, or if multicellular then soft-bodied.
Though ephemeral ice sheets may have existed on the Antarctic continent during parts of the Middle and Late Eocene, this interval of severe global cooling marked the beginning of permanent ice sheet coverage of Antarctica, and thus the end of the greenhouse climate of the Early Palaeogene.
The theory that all Ediacarans became extinct at the start of the Cambrian is disproven if any post-Ediacaran survivors are found.
In this view, microbial-triggered mass extinctions result in returns to the microbial-dominated state Earth has been in for most of its history.
1–752, ISBN 978-1862392656 Weishampel, David B.; Dodson, Peter; Osmólska, Halszka (2004), The Dinosauria, 2nd edition, Berkeley: University of California Press, pp.
It was preceded by the less-documented (but probably more extensive) End-Botomian mass extinction around 517 million years ago, and the Dresbachian extinction event about 502 million years ago.
It makes the feature the second of the largest confirmed impact structures on Earth, and the only one whose peak ring is intact and directly accessible for scientific research.
The similarity between the geochemical data of Rajmahal volcanos and lavas of the Kerguelen Plateau confirms this.
The Toba eruption (also called the Toba supereruption and the Youngest Toba eruption) was a large eruption that occurred around 74,000 years ago, during the Late Pleistocene, at the site of present-day Lake Toba, in Sumatra, Indonesia.
The glacial diamictite deposits within the Huronian are on par in thickness with Quaternary analogs.
Recent research indicates that recovery did not begin until the start of the mid-Triassic, four to six million years after the extinction; and some writers estimate that the recovery was not complete until 30 million years after the P-T extinction, that is, in the late Triassic.
He speculates that it was destroyed around 12,000 years ago by sudden climate change during the Younger Dryas cool period, but that its few survivors taught agriculture, monumental architecture and astronomy to primitive hunter-gatherers around the world.
Furthermore, climate change may disrupt ecological partnerships among interacting species, via changes on behaviour and phenology, or via climate niche mismatch.
Hancock argues that this caused widespread destruction, with a short-term return to Ice Age conditions followed by massive flooding that altered the continental landscape.
The assemblage includes Cladophlebis indica, Dictyozamites indicus, Taeniopteris spatulata, and Brachyphyllum rhombium.
The programme focuses on the mystery of the Permian extinction, which scientists believe killed over 90% of all life on earth at the end of the Permian, some 250 million years ago.
According to data on extinction intensity (see below), both extinction events slashed approximately 40 percent of marine genera.
Norwegian shale and Japanese chert from the Ladinian-Carnian boundary show a marked change in the ratio of seawater osmium isotopes.
See also List of films featuring dinosaurs References External links Dinosaurs: The Final Day with David Attenborough at IMDb
Juvenile Madtsoia madagascariensis may have eaten a wide array of small vertebrates, while adults likely ate a narrower range of larger taxa.
During the Permian-Triassic extinction, the largest extinction event in the Earth's history, the global sea level fell 250 m (820 ft).
4,560–4,550 Ma – Proto-Earth forms at the outer (cooler) edge of the habitable zone of the Solar System.
A mated pair of Quetzalcoatlus try to fly away but are caught in the shower of debris, which burns holes in their wings.
The Dresbachian extinction event, about 502 million years ago, was followed by the Cambrian–Ordovician extinction event about 486.85 million years ago.
While the paper looked at both climate and land use change, it suggested the latter was only a significant negative factor for specialist butterfly species.
A sequel to Hancock's Fingerprints of the Gods (1995), the book builds on the premise that a highly advanced "lost civilisation" operated in prehistory but was destroyed in a global catastrophe.
The Dresbachian overlies the Middle Cambrian Albertan series, and is the lowest stage of the Upper Cambrian Croixian series, followed by the Franconian stage.
The OAE is associated with large igneous province volcanism and an extinction event of marine organisms driven by global warming, ocean acidification, and anoxia.
Fossil-based estimates 2021 research found that the "Big Five" mass extinctions were associated with a warming of around 5.2 °C (9.4 °F).
Synopsis The programme features palaeontologists and other scientists as they try to find clues to the great extinction.
Participating researcher Dave Goulson of Sussex University stated that their study suggested that humans are making large parts of the planet uninhabitable for wildlife.
Also, the largest acidity spikes found in Antarctica ice cores have been dated to 17,300 to 17,500 BP, which is significantly older than hypothetical Holocene impacts.
In 2014, WISE data ruled out a Saturn or larger-sized body in the Oort cloud out to ten thousand AU.
Before the Grande Coupure, European faunas were dominated by anoplotheriid, xiphodontid, choeropotamid, cebochoerid, dichobunid, and amphimerycid artiodactyls, palaeotheriid perissodactyls, pseudosciurid rodents, adapid and omomyid primates, and nyctitheriids.
Specifically, he claims that coastal civilisations in and around the Atlantic Ocean, Southeast Asia and the Pacific Ocean were destroyed by rising sea levels.
But all have been rejected, usually for one of the following reasons: they require events or processes for which there is no evidence; they assume mechanisms that are contrary to the available evidence; they are based on other theories that have been rejected or superseded.
Magicians of the Gods: The Forgotten Wisdom of Earth's Lost Civilisation is a 2015 book by British pseudoarchaeology writer Graham Hancock, published by Thomas Dunne Books in the United States and by Coronet in the United Kingdom.
Thus, the Manicouagan impact may have been partially responsible for the gradual decline in the latter two groups which culminated in their extinction at the Triassic–Jurassic boundary.
The Mulde event was an anoxic event, and marked the second of three1 relatively minor mass extinctions (the Ireviken, Mulde, and Lau events) during the Silurian period.
However, origination rates also rose, and so there does not appear to have been any substantial decrease in species richness.
The Ireviken event was the first of three relatively minor extinction events (the Ireviken, Mulde, and Lau events) during the Silurian period.
Leading hypotheses include changes in sea level and ocean anoxia, possibly triggered by global cooling or oceanic volcanism.
Last Day of the Dinosaurs is a 2010 Discovery Channel television documentary about the K-T extinction, which resulted in the extinction of the non-avian dinosaurs.
The second peak’s start is close to the base of the ludensis-gerhardi graptolite biozone, during the recovery interval.
With <250 remaining adult individuals, the study showed high genetic diversity and low levels of inbreeding and genetic load in the studied Dryas monkey individuals.
The Aptian extinction event (AEE) was an extinction event that occurred during the Aptian stage of the early Cretaceous Period around 116 or 117 million years ago.
Nickel enrichments are also observed at the Triassic-Jurassic boundary coevally with light carbon enrichments, providing yet more evidence of massive volcanism.
in 2009 concluded the OAE 2 occurred approximately 91.5 ± 8.6 Ma, though estimates published by Leckie et al.
The term Huronian is used to describe a lithostratigraphic supergroup and should not be used to describe glacial cycles, according to The North American Stratigraphic Code, which defines the proper naming of geologic physical and chrono units.
Whole ecosystem disruptions will occur earlier under more intense climate change: under the high-emissions RCP8.5 scenario, ecosystems in the tropical oceans would be the first to experience abrupt disruption before 2030, with tropical forests and polar environments following by 2050.
Climatic changes to arid conditions that muted variation at about 25.8 Ma coincides with the first appearance of hoglike creodonts and of pocket gophers, and this also is the beginning of the "cat gap", as well as the "entelodont gap".
Individual layers vary in thickness from less than one metre (3 ft 3 in) to more than 70 metres (230 ft).
WISE can detect 150-kelvin brown dwarfs out to 10 light-years, and the closer a brown dwarf is, the easier it is to detect.
Experts say that countries are not on track to meet international targets such as the Paris Agreement, with a projection of three to four degrees of warming if human activity continues unchanged.
At 3 °C (5.4 °F), there are more highly vulnerable species (205) than moderately vulnerable species (140).
Phipps Morgan and others have suggested that subcircular Bouguer gravity anomalies recognized beneath the Deccan Traps may indicate the presence of verneshot pipes related to the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event.
Even before the Eocene-Oligocene boundary itself, during the early Priabonian, extinction rates went up in connection with falling global temperatures.
Strong evidence exists that the extinction coincided with a large meteorite impact at the Chicxulub crater and the generally accepted scientific theory is that this impact triggered the extinction event.
Huge Azhdarchid pterosaurs congregate en masse to nest and raise their young, which are born fully capable of flight.
After the Capitanian mass extinction, disaster taxa such as Earlandia and Diplosphaerina became abundant in what is now South China.
The 2010 paper by Roy, Orr, Botting, and their collaborators that announced the discovery suggests that Cambrian species persisted into the mid-Paleozoic.
The composition of the salts and other evaporite minerals found in these lakes is consistent with their precipitation from dissolved material continually carried into the lakes by rivers and streams and subsequent concentration by evaporation, instead of evaporation of seawater.
Most early papers used families as the unit of taxonomy, based on compendiums of marine animal families by Sepkoski (1982, 1992).
Hancock seeks an explanation for his catastrophe in the controversial Younger Dryas impact hypothesis, suggesting that around 10,800 BC the fragments of a large comet struck the earth, causing widespread destruction, climate change, and sea-level rise.
Specific areas it deals with are the conflict in the Niger Delta (oil exploitation) and La Oroya, Peru (industrial pollution).
Genesis These volcanic rocks were formed from the eruptions over the Kerguelen hotspot in the early Cretaceous.
Causes Eutrophication and anoxia coeval with abrupt ecological changes have been implicated as extinction mechanisms bringing about the Lundgreni Event.
Thousands of paleoenvironmental records constructed from the study of lakes, bogs, mires, and river valleys all over the world by palynologists have not shown the existence of such a megatsunami.
The Šilalė Event was an extinction event affecting conodonts during the Přídolí, the final stage of the Silurian period.
Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) are useful to examine the role of natural selection at the genome level, to identify the loci associated with fitness, local adaptation, inbreeding, depression or disease susceptibility.
Around the same time, Sepkoski began to devise a compendium of marine animal genera, which would allow researchers to explore extinction at a finer taxonomic resolution.
It coincided with a global low point in sea level caused by glacioeustasy and is closely followed by an excursion in geochemical isotopes in the ensuing late Ludfordian faunal stage and a change in depositional regime.
However, oceanic models argue that marine currents would recover too quickly for freshwater disruptions to have a meaningful effect on nutrient cycles.
The sequence is largely marine, but the Grünbach Formation represents a terrestrial deposit and to the south-west of Vienna coal deposits in the Gosau have been worked.
In May 2020, studies suggested that the causes of the mass extinction were global warming, related to volcanism, and anoxia, and not, as considered earlier, cooling and glaciation.
Literary reviewers found the book ludicrous but entertaining, whilst sceptic and mainstream academic reviewers criticised Hancock for a litany of factual errors, for selective use of evidence and for logical fallacies.
Most of the marine victims of the extinction were either endemic species of epicontinental seas around Pangaea that died when the seas closed, or were dominant species of the Paleotethys Ocean.
The La Garita Caldera is a large volcanic caldera located in the San Juan Mountains in southwestern Colorado, United States, and is one of a number of calderas that formed during a massive ignimbrite flare-up in Colorado, Utah, and Nevada during the Oligocene Epoch.
However, a more significant factor towards animal extinction is the amount of materials consumed by humans, much higher in the developed world.
In the Sarmiento Formation of Argentina, Madtsoia would have frequently eaten the more varied and abundant mammals of larger size.
Current status and future extinctions Peter Ward proposes that the current man-made climate change and mass extinction event may be considered to be the most recent Medean event.
In the programme, it is argued that the Permian extinction came in 3 stages; the first was caused by volcanic activity in the great Siberian Traps.
A second season, featuring actor Keanu Reeves alongside Hancock, is focused on the Americas and was released in October 2024.
The oldest well-constrained geological units with dinosaur fossils are the Santa Maria Formation of Brazil and the Ischigualasto Formation of Argentina.
The 2022 IPCC Sixth Assessment Report estimates that while at 2 °C (3.6 °F) of global warming, fewer than 3% of flowering plants would be at a very high risk of extinction, this increases to 10% at 3.2 °C (5.8 °F).
From a palaeobotanical perspective, the Aptian Extinction Event is an episode of importance, deserving a higher status among other minor events.
The opportunistic, oyster-like bivalve genus Chondrodonta thrived during OAE1a because of its ability to survive in stressed environments where its competitors could not, and its spike in abundance is often used as a biostratigraphic indicator of the onset of OAE1a.
Many of the units of the group are fossiliferous, typically providing marine fossils such as ammonites, though terrestrial remains including those of dinosaurs are known from the Grünbach Formation and Schönleiten Formation.
A 2019 study published in Nature Communications found that rapid biodiversity loss is impacting larger mammals and birds to a much greater extent than smaller ones, with the body mass of such animals expected to shrink by 25% over the next century.
Catastrophe is a five-part British documentary television series telling the story of the catastrophic events that shaped planet Earth.
These widespread eruptions would have injected large amounts of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere causing warming of the climate and subsequent acidification and loss of oxygen in the oceans.
While this change was favorable to freshwater vertebrates, those that prefer marine environments, such as sharks, suffered.
Positive neodymium isotope excursions provide additional indications of pervasive volcanism as a cause of OAE2.
Plants The rise of rainforests in the Carboniferous greatly altered the landscapes by eroding low-energy, organic-rich anastomosing (braided) river systems with multiple channels and stable alluvial islands.
The end-Botomian mass extinction event, also known as the late early Cambrian extinctions, refer to two extinction intervals that occurred during Stages 4 and 5 of the Cambrian Period, approximately 513 to 509 million years ago.
Lacustrine sediments deposited as a result of this lake's existence are represented by the Da'anzhai Member of the Ziliujing Formation.
After the Triassic-Jurassic extinction event (201.3 Ma), ferns drastically increased in abundance while seed plants became scarce.
Other evidence cited in support of YDIH includes black mats, or strata of organic-rich soil (which contained the purported nanodiamonds), and magnetic spherules that have been identified at several archaeological sites across North America.
The largest specimen is over 15 mm (1.5 cm)(the largest recorded for a sunellid), while Combinivalvula and Jinningella reached roughly 10 mm (1 cm) and Caudicaella typically reached 10–12 mm (1-1.2 cm) due to its long cardinal spines compared to other sunellids.
In southeast Alaska, the sea rises by 3.96 cm/year, redepositing sediment in various river channels and bringing salt water inland.
Large release of CO2 in the atmosphere-ocean system by Wrangellia can explain the increased supply of siliciclastic material into basins, as observed during the CPE.
Along with human-made changes in climate (see above), some of these extinctions could be caused by overhunting, overfishing, invasive species, or habitat loss.
Conodonts, which were prominent index fossils throughout the Paleozoic and Triassic, finally became extinct at the T-J boundary following declining diversity.
The extinction rate has been estimated between 28.5% and 36%, making it the eighth largest extinction event recorded.
He then recounts that the survivors of this catastrophe, the titular "Magicians", dispersed across the world to pass on the knowledge of their lost civilisation.
Stegosaurs such as Wuerhosaurus, among the last known stegosaurs a dinosaurs, went extinct along with surviving relatives of mammals such as the Tritylodonts.
As the mid-latitudes became ice free, dust was blown from them into other regions, lowering albedo and speeding up deglaciation.
Planet in Peril is a two-part, four-hour documentary on CNN that premiered on October 23, 2007, broadcast in the CNN Presents format.
It altered the vast coal forests that covered the equatorial region of Euramerica (Europe and North America).
bai) was the largest with an estimated length of 9–10 m (30–33 ft), and the other three species were smaller.
The Lundgreni Event, also known as the Mid-Homerian Biotic Crisis, was an extinction event during the middle Homerian age of the Silurian period.
Mercury anomalies have been discovered in strata corresponding to the extinction event; however, such enrichments in mercury are also found in older rocks that predate the biotic crisis.
Emperor penguin populations may be at a similar risk, with 80% of populations being at risk of extinction by 2100 with no mitigation.
The WWF suggested in late 2021 that over a million species could go extinct within a decade in the "largest mass extinction event since the end of the dinosaur age".
Extinction rates among Ordovician bryozoan genera were actually higher in the early and late Katian, and origination rates sharply dropped in the late Katian and Hirnantian.
Yaminuechelys is an extinct genus of chelid turtle from Argentina and the Dorotea Formation of Chile.
The Tethys Ocean experienced an increase in humidity at the beginning of OAE1a, while conditions around the Boreal Ocean were initially dry and only humidified later on during the OAE.
Evidence for the event has been found globally in places such as Fennoscandia and the Wyoming Craton.
Genome-wide analysis and big genomes studies require advances in bioinformatics and computational biology.
While faunal diversity during the end Permian extinction event (251 million years ago) drastically plummeted, Hindeodus survived into the early Triassic.
Pediomys, a genus of early marsupial mammal, thrives at Tanis, though they spend much of their time burrowing and rushing through the undergrowth to avoid the other animals that make the sandbank their home.
madagascariensis would have weighed 50 kg (110 lb), but an isolated specimen suggests that this species reached 8 m (26 ft) in maximum length.
Out of all known bird species, (approximately 11,154), 159 (1.4%) have become extinct, with 226 (2%) being critically endangered.
Olson's Extinction represents the third highest peak of extinction rates seen in plants throughout the Paleozoic, and the number of genera fell by 25%.
Sources include sediment that has been accumulating in a lake since the event of interest and sedimentary rocks such as sandstone.
Permian–Triassic extinction event, 252 Ma The End Permian extinction or the "Great Dying" occurred at the Permian–Triassic transition.
One explanation for this proposed cycle is carbon storage and release by oceanic crust, which exchanges carbon between the atmosphere and mantle.
About 12.0±3.3 Tmol of O2 per year goes to the sinks composed of reduced minerals and gases from volcanoes, metamorphism, percolating seawater and heat vents from the seafloor.
The increase in organic matter production would have caused more organic matter to sink into the deep ocean, where its respiration would further decrease oxygen concentrations.
He attributes the COVID-19 pandemic to human expansion into areas of Yunnan, with the virus perhaps spreading from bats to Wuhan via humans or animal markets.
However, while the more ambitious 1.5 °C (2.7 °F) goal dramatically cuts the proportion of insects, plants, and vertebrates at high risk of extinction to 6%, 4% and 8%, the less ambitious target triples (to 18%) and doubles (8% and 16%) the proportion of respective species at risk.
Relative to 3 °C (5.4 °F), stabilizing the warming at 1.5 °C (2.7 °F) represents a reduction in extinction risk for 76% of those species, and 38% stop being vulnerable.
The arrival of humans in New Caledonia marked the commencement of coastal forest and mangrove decline on the island.
First considered to be a preservational gap in the fossil record, the event was originally dubbed 'Olson's Gap'.
The Taghanic event (Taghanic unconformity, Taghanic crisis or Taghanic onlap) was an extinction event that occurred about 386 million years ago during the Givetian faunal stage of the Middle Devonian geologic period in the Paleozoic era.
Later on, when anoxia became widespread, the production of nitrous oxide, a greenhouse gas about 265 times more potent than carbon dioxide, drastically increased because of elevated nitrification and denitrification rates.
Some scientists argue there may have been no mass extinction on land at all, a view supported by findings in plants, insects, and four-limbed vertebrates.
Impacting objects are generally moving at speeds of the order of 20–50 km/s (12–31 mi/s), and at these speeds an object about 120 m (390 ft) across and with a mass of 2.0×109 kg (4.4×109 lb) would be required to form a Silverpit-sized crater, if the object was rocky.
Little mixing of different plant assemblages occurred throughout this transition; floral assemblages were highly discrete and conservative and gave way to new ones without any transitional floras intermediate in composition with regards to the preceding one and succeeding one.
This was not highly plausible because every other element was exceptionally preserved on the same bedding plane, so it was unlikely that apparatuses were preserved incompletely.
Description The three glacial diamictite-bearing units of the Huronian are, from the oldest to youngest, the Ramsay Lake, Bruce, and Gowganda formations.
For instance, the Torreya Guardians have coordinated an assisted migration program to save the Torreya taxifolia from extinction.
The Taghanic event is found in the Tully Formation and Marcellus Formation in New York and Pennsylvania, including the Windom shale there.
Sea levels initially fell during OAE1a as the world warmed and later rose as global cooling occurred, indicating the dominance of aquifer-eustasy in controlling sea level change during this anoxic event.
3,480 Ma – Fossils of microbial mat found in 3.48 billion-year-old sandstone discovered in Western Australia.
From one side of the coin, data derived from high throughput sequencing of whole genomes were potentially a massive advance in the field of species conservation, opening wide doors for future challenges and opportunities.
A 2020 meta-analysis found that while 39% of vascular plant species were likely threatened with extinction, only 4.1% of this figure could be attributed to climate change, with land use change activities predominating.
Normally, species faced with changing conditions can either adapt in place through microevolution or move to another habitat with suitable conditions.
It also aired as a special presentation on December 2 and 3, 2007 on Animal Planet & Animal Planet HD.
During this time there was great diversity among the other carnivorous mammals in North America – both hypocarnivorous and hypercarnivorous species – and other hypercarnivorous species existed before, during, and after the cat gap.
Colin Elder, supervising archaeologist at the University of Salford, said Hancock is "not trying to corroborate with multiple sources ...
These data were used to relate the decline of the sex ratios of sea turtles in the North East Caribbean and climate change.
The TOAE is believed to be the second largest anoxic event of the last 300 Ma, and possibly the largest of the Phanerozoic.
The Deinonychus model was used for Saurornithoides (rather inaccurately, as Saurornithoides was slenderer than Deinonychus), and the Sauroposeidon model was used for Alamosaurus (even though Alamosaurus had different proportions than Sauroposeidon).
Due to positive feedback for melting, the eventual melting of the snow and ice covering most of Earth's surface would require as little as a millennium.
It is classified as a minor extinction event, rather than a major event like the famous Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event that brought about the end of the Mesozoic Era.
Evidence also exists for the development of anoxia (a loss of oxygen) in some environments in the oceans.
One possible Ediacaran survivor whose status is still open to scrutiny is Ediacaria booleyi, a purported holdfast structure known from the upper Cambrian.
Throughout the arc of this hypothesis, recognized and expected impact markers were not found, leading to proposed YD impactors and impact processes that were novel, self-contradictory, rapidly changing, and sometimes defying the laws of physics.
It has also been suggested that the oceans have gradually become more hospitable to life over the last 500 million years, and thus less vulnerable to mass extinctions, but susceptibility to extinction at a taxonomic level does not appear to make mass extinctions either more or less probable.
It coincided with a global drop in sea level, and is closely followed by an excursion in geochemical isotopes.
Mammals, descended from the synapsids, and birds, a side-branch of the theropod dinosaurs, emerged as the two predominant clades of terrestrial tetrapods.
These presumably ecologically controlled relationships likely amplify smaller perturbations (asteroid impacts, etc.) to produce the global effects observed.
Possible climate records of the eruption While the Toba eruption occurred in the backdrop of the rapid climate transitions of GS20 and MIS 4, triggered by changes in ocean currents and insolation, whether the eruption played any role in accelerating these events is much more heavily debated.
More recent theories suggest that other forces, like close passage of other stars, or the angular effect of the galactic gravity plane working against the outer solar orbital plane (Shiva hypothesis), may be the cause of orbital perturbations of some outer Solar System objects.
Geologic effects The TOAE was associated with widespread phosphatisation of marine fossils believed to result from the warming-induced increase in weathering that increased phosphate flux into the ocean.
See also Death drive Fermi paradox Future of Earth § Climate impact References External links Ward, Peter.
Such an event may be forceful enough to launch an extreme amount of material from the crust and mantle into a sub-orbital trajectory, leading to significant further damage after the material crashes back down to the surface.
During periods of low oxygen concentrations very soluble selenate (Se6+) is converted into much less soluble selenide (Se2-), elemental Se and organo-selenium complexes.
UNAM drilled a series of eight fully-cored boreholes in 1995, three of which penetrated deep enough to reach the ejecta deposits outside the main crater rim (UNAM-5, 6, and 7).
Opisthotriton is an extinct genus of prehistoric salamanders that lived in North America between at least the Upper Cretaceous and the Paleocene.
These have all been discounted because they are unable to explain the duration, selectivity, and periodicity of the extinctions.
However, higher FeHR/FeT values are known from a few deep-water early Hirnantian sequences found in China and Nevada.
Second, how to translate all the available information into conservation's strategies and practice or, in other words, how to fill the gap between genomic researches and conservation application.
Estimates for the decline in global diversity over these events range from 50% of marine genera up to 80%.
A December 2016 study by the Zoological Society of London, Panthera Corporation and Wildlife Conservation Society showed that cheetahs are far closer to extinction than previously thought, with only 7,100 remaining in the wild, existing within only 9% of their historic range.
Extinctions The Taghanic event at the Givetian/Frasnian boundary caused many extinctions, including the disappearance of about 50% of coral genera.
However, there is evidence that two thirds of the Deccan Traps were created within 1 million years about 65.5 Ma, so these eruptions would have caused a fairly rapid extinction, possibly a period of thousands of years, but still a longer period than what would be expected from a single impact event.
They were able to survive and evolve in warm-water or cold water and shallow water or deep-water environments despite widespread anoxia during the Permian-Triassic transitional period.
Sunella has often been suggested to be closely related to Isoxys, a genus of Cambrian arthropods with a superficially similar bivalved carapace, though true understanding of Sunella's affinities was for a long time hampered by poor knowledge of its soft tissue.
Targeted for their coveted skins, eggs, and down, hunters took advantage of the great auk's breeding season, when pairs nested in large colonies on rocky islands.
For example, the Santonian and Campanian stages were each used to estimate diversity changes in the Maastrichtian prior to the K-Pg mass extinction.
While Budyko's model showed that this ice-albedo stability could happen, he concluded that it had, in fact, never happened, as his model offered no way to escape from such a feedback loop.
Under SSP2-4.5, 41.22% of the terrestrial vertebrates will lose some habitat to aridity, 8.6% will lose over half, and 4.7% will lose all of it, and under SSP1-2.6, these figures go down to 25.2%, 4.6% and 3%, respectively.
A decrease in the anoxic conditions of the Cambrian, and an increase in euxinic conditions (or an increase in hydrogen sulfide concentrations) of the Early Ordovician are also believed to be an initiator of the Great Ordovician Biodiversification Event.
Recurrent Early Triassic environmental stresses also acted as a ceiling limiting the maximum ecological complexity of marine ecosystems until the Spathian.
The unconformable relationship indicates that the early stages of thrusting ('pre-Gosau') had commenced before the Gosau units were deposited in the upper Cretaceous.
This was followed by a posterior abdomen region with three segments each of which bore limbs only composed of the flap-like exopods.
Taghanic onlap The period of global warming that caused the Taghanic event melted ice caps, causing sea levels to rise.
However, another site in India, the Middle Son Valley (in Madhya Pradesh), exhibits evidence of a major population decline and it has been suggested that the abundant springs of the Jurreru Valley may have offered its inhabitants unique protection.
The Dresbachian is a Maentwrogian regional stage of North America, lasting from 501 to 497 million years ago.
Other Volcanic activity has also been promoted as a possible cause of the cat gap as well as other extinctions during this time period.
Due to their congregational breeding habits, captive breeding was almost impossible, and populations further diminished.
Some form of a combination of both factors could be plausible, and overkill would be a lot easier to achieve large-scale extinction with an already stressed population due to climate change.
Tectonic relevance Upper Cretaceous sediments, particularly the Gosau beds, have been of importance in interpreting the tectonic history of the Northern Calcareous Alps.
The timing of the initiation of GS20 is dated to 74.0–74.2 kyr, and the entire event lasted about 1,500 years.
Through overgrazing and overbrowsing, mixed parkland becomes grassland, and climatic continentality increases.
The veracity of the extinction event has been disputed by a number of authors, who propose that it is an artifact of poor sampling and may conflate gradual change that occured over a longer period of time.
Name In 1865 Jules Verne's novel From the Earth to the Moon introduced the concept of a ballistic projectile escaping the Earth's gravity, from which Phipps Morgan and others derived the name "Verneshot" in their paper theorizing a connection between extinction events and cratonic gas ejection.
In Guizhou Province, China, glacial rocks were found to be underlying and overlying a layer of volcanic ashes which contained zircon minerals, which could be dated through radioisotopes.
The documentary attributes blame to the private sector of the economy; the desire to increase profits leads to a disregard for the natural environment.
Over the epochs, the upper part of the lava deformed in a cold, brittle fashion and formed graben structures.
During the Cryogenian, however, Earth's continents were all at tropical latitudes, which made this moderating process less effective, as high weathering rates continued on land even as Earth cooled.
Although early Hirnantian black shales can be found in a few isolated ocean basins (such as the Yangtze platform of China), from a worldwide perspective these correspond to local events.
The remarkable cooling period in the ocean is correlated with pronounced mammalian faunal replacement within continental Asia as well.
Although Raup and Sepkoski could not identify the cause of their supposed periodicity, they suggested a possible non-terrestrial connection.
He claims that parts of these sites were built more than 10,000 years ago, in some cases much earlier than accepted by orthodox history, and with techniques and technology that were not yet supposed to be in existence.
West argued that Marlon's radiocarbon dating calibration was wrong, which Marlon dismissed due to her use of multiple sites, none of which showed any spike as required by YDIH.
As the balance shifts between the global cryosphere and hydrosphere, more of the planet's water in ice sheets means less in the oceans.
Over the 65 million years after the dinosaurs disappeared, mammals grew to dominate the planet, leading to the evolution of humans.
Synopsis Hancock's thesis is based on the discredited, controversial, and refuted Younger Dryas impact hypothesis, which proposes that the Younger Dryas climate event was caused by one or more large comets striking the Earth around 10,800 BC.
The opposite event, marine transgression, occurs when flooding from the sea covers previously-exposed land.
Since chromium is not easily dissolved, its release from rocks requires the presence of a powerful acid such as sulfuric acid (H2SO4) which may have formed through bacterial oxidation of pyrite.
Species adaptation Many species are already responding to climate change by moving into different areas.
CNN's Anderson Cooper, Sanjay Gupta and Animal Planet's Jeff Corwin investigate the current state of our planet, focusing on four major areas: global warming, overpopulation, deforestation and species loss.
If continental rifting occurs above this location, an explosive release of the built up gas may occur, potentially sending out a column of crust and mantle into a globally dispersive, super-stratospheric trajectory.
The series, titled Ancient Apocalypse, primarily focused on Hancock's belief in such a lost civilization (including the fictional Atlantis).
Stratigraphic contacts between the Gosau beds and any earlier units are generally unconformable and the isolated pockets in which they occur are often fault bounded.
Potential drivers of extinction proposed as causes of end-Guadalupian reef decline include fluctuations in salinity and tectonic collisions of microcontinents.
Regressions are, therefore, seen as correlates or symptoms of major extinctions, rather than primary causes.
Two diamictite-rich layers in the top 1 km (0.62 mi) of the 7 km (4.3 mi) Neoproterozoic strata of the northeastern Svalbard archipelago represent the first and final phases of the Marinoan glaciation.
Trilobites that inhabited the outer edges of shelf environments and slope environments, on the other hand, were minimally impacted by the event.
Smaller avian species tend to be harmed more significantly by the destruction of habitat, and bigger species are often endangered more so by human hunting and invasive species.
In 1978, geophysicists Glen Penfield and Antonio Camargo were working for the Mexican state-owned oil company Petróleos Mexicanos (Pemex) as part of an airborne magnetic survey of the Gulf of Mexico north of the Yucatán Peninsula.
He uses a correlation between the events and glacially induced global sea level change to suggest that carbonate weathering is the major player, with other factors playing a less significant role.
This isotopic excursion is also known from the Jočionys-299 borehole in eastern Lithuania, as well as in coeval deposits in the Appalachian Basin of North America and has also been termed the Šilalė Low.
The End-Ediacaran extinction, also called the Kotlin Crisis, is a mass extinction believed to have occurred near the end of the Ediacaran period, the final period of the Proterozoic eon.
The Cretaceous Period ended about 66 million years ago, but, on the evidence of nearby boreholes, the lowermost Paleogene sediments appear to be absent.
A second negative δ7Li excursion occurred synchronously with a strontium isotope minimum, demarcating another peak in silicate weathering.
These figures go down to 41.7%, 12.5% and 7.2% under the "intermediate" SSP2-4.5 scenario, and to 24.6%, 6.6% and 4.4% under the high-mitigation SSP1-2.6.
It was much more difficult to hunt when not breeding, as birds were less concentrated and spent most of their time in frigid waters, where they were swift and adept swimmers.
Any grandchildren the criminal may have, over a certain age (again with enslavement for the underaged) and—if married—their spouses.
The victims were so-called collaborators with the Korean People's Army during North Korean occupation.
Antisemitism among individuals involved with HUAC has also been noted, including antisemitic Congressional testimony from Martin Dies Jr.
Elected offices like the President of Ukraine and People's Deputies of Ukraine will not be subject to lustration checks.
Insofar as the various blacklists of McCarthyism were actual physical lists, they were created and maintained by these private organizations.
The report stated that he was executed for showing "disloyalty to First Chairman of the National Defense Commission Kim Jong-un".
By that time, Syria was already facing a growing shortage of consumer and producer goods, such as (in some areas) bread or building materials, and its production in the textile industry had declined.
Merchants, journalists, and even missionaries established themselves in China, especially in the Treaty Ports created by a series of treaties after the Opium Wars.
The New Order had begun with much popular support and high hopes that the troubles of Sukarno's era were over.
Criticism According to General Prosecutor of Ukraine Vitaly Yarema the lustration law adopted by the Ukrainian parliament complied neither with the Ukrainian Constitution nor international law, and he warned "its enactment will have negative consequences".
Indonesia was given the tacit support of the American Government, which saw FRETILIN as a Marxist organization.
Modern times Founded in 1926 the present company has been in the building since 1929, and it was named after Lesya Ukrainka in 1941.
Latvian leader Kārlis Ulmanis requested German Freikorps support for assistance against the Bolsheviks.
On 14 August 1944 SS Chief Himmler received the mandate to have former Social Democratic (SPD) and Communist Party (KPD) officials detained.
Estimates indicate that approximately 5,000 were arrested across Germany, and most were promptly delivered to the closest concentration camp.
Chŏng Ch'ŏl, head of the Western faction and a famous poet whose poems are still studied in Korean schools, was in charge of investigating the case and used the case to purge Easterners who had slightest connection with Chŏng Yŏrip.
Cast Hartoni Ubes as Self Sarjio Mintardjo as Self Gede Arka as Self Asahan Aidit as Self Release The film had its world premiere at the 17th Jogja-NETPAC Asian Film Festival during the JAFF Indonesian Screen Awards competition program on 27 November 2022, where it won for Best Film.
Cases of political prisoners and prisoners of conscience in the Soviet Union were divulged by Amnesty International in 1975 and by The Committee for the Defense of Soviet Political Prisoners in 1975 and 1976.
14 December executions As the war neared its end and Pakistani surrender became apparent, the Pakistan Army made a final effort to eliminate the intelligentsia of the new nation of Bangladesh.
This list presents the names of the purged members, along with the names of those who died in prison and those who spent time in prison.
Many victims of the Aviators Affair were rehabilitated during the De-Stalinization period of the 1950s.
After the independence of Bangladesh, a list of Bengali intellectuals was discovered on a page of Major General Rao Farman Ali's diary left behind at the Governor's House.
Literacy was widespread, and many Salzburgers owned Protestant books that had been brought in by travelers.
National movements The national movements included the Russian national dissidents as well as dissident movements from Ukraine, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Georgia, and Armenia.
Initially, the Freikorps captured the town of Straupe and continued their advance toward the town of Limbaži.
According to the Valech Commission, waterboarding was one of the torture methods most commonly recorded by victims of imprisonment and torture.
On 18 August, a convoy carrying about 600 detainees to Abu Zaabal Prison near Cairo resulted in at least 35 deaths.
Similarly Indonesian Professor George Aditjondro, formerly of Salatiga University in Java, concluded from his study of Indonesian Army data that in fact 300,000 Timorese had been killed in the early years of the occupation.
In many cases, simply being subpoenaed by HUAC or one of the other committees was sufficient cause to be fired.
Pattern variables Parsons asserted that there are not two dimensions to societies (instrumental and expressive) but that there are qualitative differences between kinds of social interaction.
The communiqué also strongly criticized the unsatisfactory performance of the state economic sector and promised a number of reforms as well as greater encouragement of foreign investment.
A 1977 booklet from the Indonesian Department of Foreign Affairs, entitled Decolonization in East Timor, paid tribute to the "sacred right of self-determination" and recognised APODETI as the true representatives of the East Timorese majority.
The German Freikorps forces then attempted to seize control of Latvia with the assistance of the local ethnic German population.
Purges of Nazi collaborators, sometimes called national cleansing, were widespread trials of people accused of collaborating with the Nazi occupiers in many European countries after World War II.
According to Yonhap, multiple sources reported he had been executed along with other members of Jang Song-thaek's family.
See also Kim Kyong-hui References External links List of people purged with Jang Song-thaek Archived 28 April 2017 at the Wayback Machine (in French)
Mithridates invaded with a large army and killed Ariarathes, installing his own son – Ariarathes IX – c.
Criticism of the ICJ judgement The Court's finding that Serbia was not directly involved in the Srebrenica genocide have been strongly criticized.
North America Enslaved Africans in the 16th to 19th centuries throughout North America, South America, and the Caribbean were forced to abandon their native languages, religions, and cultural practices.
Professor Isabel de Madariaga (1919–2014) expanded this idea to explain the oprichnina as Ivan's attempt to subordinate all independent social classes to the autocracy.
Each exhibit provides context about the book, including the reasons for its banning and the broader cultural and historical implications.
On 22 August 2016, with the removal of Soviet distinctions from the Armed Forces of Ukraine, the Guards titles were removed from the names of the units.
In spite of this, by March 1951, many large cities implemented the campaign upon the urgings of Mao.
A host country may declare any member of a diplomatic staff persona non grata at any time without any explanation.
Alcaraz felt responsible for keeping his fellow POWs alive and make their lives better the best way he could.
The cultural revolution primarily involved the fight against illiteracy, which was necessary for the subsequent scientific and technological development.
Justice Harlan wrote: The evidence was insufficient to prove that the Communist Party presently advocated forcible overthrow of the Government not as an abstract doctrine, but by the use of language reasonably and ordinarily calculated to incite persons to action, immediately or in the future.
On 17 July 2008, the South Korean governmental Truth and Reconciliation Commission acknowledged the civilian massacre.
On 20 February 2006, the National Archives of Korea reported that files concerning the massacre had been found.
Passage Instrumental in drafting the laws were Ukrainian historian Volodymyr Viatrovych and politician Yuri Shukhevych.
Kupreškić, expressly disagreed with the wide interpretation of the 'intent to destroy' as adopted by the UN General Assembly and the German courts.
In his 1997 memoir East Timor's Unfinished Struggle: Inside the Timorese Resistance, Constâncio Pinto describes being tortured by Indonesian soldiers: "With each question, I would get two or three punches in the face.
Ukrainian politician and president of the Ukrainian parliament Volodymyr Groysman, who visited Poland shortly afterward, stated that the law is not intended to be anti-Polish, and was intended to be anti-Soviet and anti-Nazi instead.
This led to the creation of dedicated Helsinki Watch Groups in Moscow (Moscow Helsinki Group), Kiev (Ukrainian Helsinki Group), Vilnius (Lithuanian Helsinki Group), Tbilisi, and Erevan (1976–77).
All the new sources [in Perjury] were marshaled by Weinstein to show that Chambers was a "truthful man." The process of the lawsuit also more firmly established that Krieger had in fact been a member of the Communist Party.
Three mental health laws proposed in the California Assembly in 1955 (Assembly Bills 1158, 1159 and 3300) attracted the attention of the APRF, which regarded them as an attack on fundamental civil liberties.
Early in his career, Jang worked for the Kim Il Sung Youth League (KISYL), first, during the 1990s and early 2000s, as secretary and first secretary of the Pyongyang branch of KISYL.
He also admitted that he modified his reports in accordance with the wishes of the communists, to portray them as democratic socialist reformers.
During the Tang dynasty (618–907), the family punishment was not abolished, but it was only applied to those who plotted against the rule of the emperor.
He rose to the top of the NKVD during the Great Purge and is known to have taken part in brutal interrogations and forgeries involving Stalin's purported enemies.
The Aviators Affair was a 1946 purge of the Soviet air force and the Soviet aircraft industry following accusations that, during World War II, Soviet fighter planes had been of poor quality.
Aftermath Despite surrendering at Far West on November 1, Mormons (especially in outlying areas) continued to be subject to harassment by citizens and militia units.
See also Notes Citations Bibliography Further reading External links Media related to Palmer Raids at Wikimedia Commons
His formal appointment as general secretary of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia (CPY) was confirmed in October 1940, during the Fifth Land Conference of the CPY in Zagreb.
In the November 1950 election, he defeated Republican party candidate Prescott Sheldon Bush, father of U.S.
Justices Black and Douglas wrote concurring opinions that argued that the Court should have gone further and ruled that the membership clause of the Smith Act was unconstitutional.
Jang is likely the son of Jang Myong-hui and Jang Song-kil, which would make him the nephew of Jang Song-thaek.
McCarthyism both reached its peak and began its decline when he launched an investigation into possible espionage and subversive activities at the Army Signal Corps Engineering Laboratories in Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, culminating in 36 days of televised investigative hearings in 1954.
Defamation campaign De Viana was particularly susceptible to defamation due to a pseudonym he used on Wikipedia, which was closely linked to his real name.
Waterboarding caused detainees to asphyxiate, while their heads were submerged into the water several times in a row.
Other operations include Operation Colombo during which hundreds of left-wing activists were murdered and Operation Condor, carried out with the security services of other Latin American dictatorships.
During the assembly, which he ordered to be videotaped, he claimed to have uncovered a fifth column within the party.
He also made special mention of Francesco Castello Aleu, a 22 yr old layman, and German Gozalba, at age 23 just 2 months into the priesthood.
The Prussian government subsequently declared that the Salzburgers were bona fide Lutherans who were entitled to the protection of the Peace of Augsburg.
Wuhan Among the victims of the White Terror in Wuhan was Xiang Jingyu, one of the earliest female CCP leaders.
Kozelsk and Starobelsk were used mainly for military officers, while Ostashkov was used mainly for Polish Scouting, gendarmes, police officers, and prison officers.
Pyotr Vasilyevich Fedotov (Russian: Пётр Васильевич Федотов; 18 December 1900 – 29 September 1963) was a long time Soviet security and intelligence officer, the head of counterintelligence in NKVD/NKGB and head of foreign intelligence as the deputy chairman of the Committee of Information.
After many of the charges were rejected by a federal judge and one of the witnesses confessed to perjury, the case was dropped in 1955.
The article included the often quoted lines: A rioting mob is the one and only possible means for organizing a fight in these last open and decisive blood-battles between the capitalists and the working classes.
This series of events is related to a persecution that began after the blackout of 2019, intensifying towards the end of that year against Costero, De Viana, and Wikimedia Venezuela.
On 14 December 1971, over 200 Bengali intellectuals, including professors, journalists, doctors, artists, engineers, and writers, were abducted from their homes in Dhaka by the Al-Badr militia and the Pakistan Army.
Realizing from the interrogation that Marcos had been spying on him for years, he fled to the US as soon as he got out, through the intervention of his children who were American citizens.
The film premiered in the country, screened by the National Commission on Human Rights (Komnas HAM) throughout late 2012 for filmmakers, authors, advocates, educators, and organizations for the genocide survivors.
The Sancheong and Hamyang massacre (Korean: 산청・함양 양민학살 사건, Hanja: 山清・咸陽良民虐殺事件) was a massacre conducted by a unit of the South Korean Army 11th Division during the Korean War.
As much as 2–3 percent of the population of Europe was affected by these trials, which were often held under special laws.
History Bourgogne Theatre The building was originally designed in 1875 by Vladimir Nikolayev and sponsored by a French entrepreneur Augustin Bourgogne.
He calls up many well-known people -- Socrates, Thomas Jefferson, John Milton, ..., Abraham Lincoln, ...
The 233 Spanish Martyrs, also referred to as The Martyrs of Valencia or Jose Aparico Sanz and 232 Companions, were a group of martyrs from the Spanish Civil War, who were beatified in March 2001 by Pope John Paul II.
At a special lecture at Osaka on December 12, Parsons spoke, at the suggestion of Tominaga, on "Social System Theory and Organization Theory" to the Japan Sociological Society.
Purge According to a report distributed to overseas diplomatic missions of North Korea, the 16 closest associates of Jang were executed.
With the protection of mission staff from prosecution for violating civil and criminal laws, depending on rank, under Articles 41 and 42 of the Vienna Convention, they are bound to respect national laws and regulations.
Career Kim To-man was a faction member of the Kapsan faction, whose ringleader, Pak Kum-chol sought to introduce economic reforms, challenge Kim Il Sung's cult of personality, and appoint himself as Kim Il Sung's successor.
Patrick Hurley testified to Congress that the China Hands had subverted his mission and General Albert Wedemeyer blamed the State Department for failing to act.
Ukraine Mortal Kombat 11 is banned in Ukraine due to high-impact blood and gore and depictions of communist symbolism, which is banned per Ukrainian law.
The laws passed on April 9, 2015, in the Verkhovna Rada with overwhelming support and were enacted by president Petro Poroshenko on May 15 that year.
The Investigator is found wandering, out of his mind, at the base of the mountain at whose top the plane had crashed.
Minutes of the January 31, 1938 Politburo meeting list the following ethnicities against which NKVD operations were to be continued: Poles, Latvians, Germans, Estonians, Finns, Greeks, Iranians, Harbinites, Chinese, and Romanians.
In July 2022, due to the February 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine was renamed from Lesya Ukrainka National Academic Theater of Russian Drama to Lesya Ukrainka National Academic Theater.
The irregularities in the case accumulated, including the lack of information about specific charges and the rejection of a protection request filed in January 2023.
As a CPUSA member and allegedly of the secret apparatus known as the Silvermaster group, Taylor is believed to have supplied information orally and in document form to Soviet intelligence.
Meanwhile, the People's Council of Latvia proclaimed Latvia's independence from Russia on November 18, 1918.
Đurišić formed a Chetnik prison in Kolašin, in which some 2,000 opponents were incarcerated and/or tortured.
During a speech at a military parade, General Al-Sisi called for mass demonstrations on 26 July to grant his forces a "mandate" to crack down on "terrorism", an apparent reference to the bombing at Mansoura and to restive Islamists continuing to oppose the overthrow of Mohamed Morsi.
"The Power of the Atom" quest was edited to relieve concerns about atomic detonation in inhabited areas and the Fat Man weapon was renamed to the Nuka Launcher due to its relation to the real historic event.
During the Cambodian genocide, Cham Muslims were persecuted by the Khmer Rouge regime, first through forced assimilation, but later through direct violence (mass killing, raiding and destroying their villages).
All of these channels will be craft through partnerships and a group executive at the SABC mentioned that if they are able to get the sports channel running in SD then they may be able to get a ninth channel which is history.
During the early days of the Cold War, many prominent women were listed as communists or fellow travellers in the American anti-communist publication Red Channels: The Report of Communist Influence in Radio and Television in June 1950.
Sheil was "outspoken advocate of social justice in the underprivileged and marginalized sectors of the community." His pro-labor stance led him to endorse some controversial strikes.
In all, 113 members were removed that June, representing over two-thirds of the total membership at the beginning of the year.
It also showed that 41% of respondents supported the initiative to dismantle all monuments to Lenin in the country, whereas 48% were against it and 11% were undecided.
When news reached Rome, the senate decreed that both kings were to be restored and dispatched Manius Aquillius to lead a commission.
By region Montenegro In June 1941, the Regional Committee of the CPY for Montenegro, Boka and Sandžak issued a proclamation inviting people to join the "final liquidation of the capitalist system".
Apart from the interviews with the exiles, the stories are told through historical footage and animation recreations.
On the same day, the Court upheld a provision of the Internal Security Act of 1950 that required "Communist action" organizations to register with the government, which subjected their members to a variety of restrictions.
Taylor also was a member of the Communist Party of the United States (CPUSA), in violation of federal employment statutes barring membership in an organization seeking the violent overthrow of the United States Government.
Speaking bitterness, defined as "articulating one's history of being oppressed and exploited by class enemies and thus stimulating others' class hatred, and in the meantime consolidating one's own class standpoint", was employed to focus peasant resentment towards landlords.
Economic effects Although land reform is an important social revolution, it has come at a great cost, causing significant rifts and internal strife within rural communities.
After a screening for US Congress members, Oppenheimer demanded that the US acknowledge its role in the killings.
Coca-Cola was not produced domestically, but could be found in bars and Comturist shops, stores with a restricted clientele where Western goods could be purchased in hard currency.
For example, in the summer of 1923, a campaign to discuss "issues of life" was initiated by Leon Trotsky, who spoke in print with a series of articles published in the eponymous brochure (three editions were published).
This agreement was eventually halted in 1980 with the outbreak of the Iran–Iraq War, during which Assad overtly aligned with Iran, spurring Iraq to accuse him of betraying Pan-Arabism.
Edina Bećirević, Genocide on the Drina River, New Haven and London: Yale University Press, 2014, ISBN 978-0-300-19258-2.
Beatification liturgy The beatification of the entire group was enacted at a solemn liturgy celebrated in Rome on 11 March 2001, presided over by Pope John Paul II.
Philosophically, Easterners tended to be followers of Yi Hwang and Jo Shik while the Westerners followed Yi I and Seong Hun.
Angkatan 66, or the "generation of 66", refers to hopes within Indonesia for a generation of young leaders and a new intellectual life following the Fall of Sukarno and the establishment of Suharto's New Order in the mid-1960s.
In response, the International Freedom of Expression Exchange issued an alert concerning the SABC's apparent trend toward self-censorship.
Chambers doubted whether Krieger's communist allegiance outlasted the demise of his party marriage with Carol: "I had always felt that there were limits to Krieger's Marxism.
Kim Yong-ju, having studied in Russia, supported a more classical view of Marxism and was not fond of the extensive personality cult built around his brother.
But after hearing these reports, Governor Boggs issued new orders directing Clark to commence direct military operations and issued Missouri Executive Order 44.
At this time, national alphabets of several nationalities (the Far North, Dagestan, Kyrgyz, Bashkir, Buryat, etc.) were created (first within the framework of Latinization, then within the framework of Cyrillization).
States, mostly based on the idea of nation, perceived the presence of ethnic or linguistic minorities as a danger for their own territorial integrity.
Judge Irving Kaufman, who ordered the execution of the Rosenbergs, was a member of the ADL's Civil Rights committee.
Kim, was a key supporter of Kim Yong-ju, the younger brother of Kim Il Sung, who fought with Kim Jong Il over being heir apparent.
This phase of the White Terror continued until the army re-established control and various ringleaders were arrested and brought before the criminal court of Isère.
See also List of massacres in South Korea Truth and Reconciliation Commission (South Korea) References External links (in Korean) 산청 시천면 양민학살, 어떤 사건인가?
However, the plans fell through and in 2015, the SABC stated that it would launch two new channels, SABC News and SABC Encore.
January 2014) was a North Korean Central Committee of the Workers' Party of Korea politician who was reportedly purged with Jang Song-thaek and his associates.
In 1937, he was moved to the NKVD Moscow Headquarters, known as Lubyanka, and was put in charge of one of the Secret Political Department Sections in the Main Directorate of State Security of the NKVD.
In 1954, Sheil vehemently attacked Joseph McCarthy, at a time when most Catholics supported this right-wing senator, provoking the withdrawal of some of the financial supporters of his projects.
The Mayor of Prague's sixth municipal district, Ondřej Kolář, announced on Prima televize that he would be under police protection after a Russian man made attempts on his life.
Crummey and Platonov have emphasized the social impact of the mass resettlements under the oprichnina.
Residents reported areas of the city looked like combat zones, with tires burning and thick black smoke rising over the streets.
One woman testified that she had been "raped and sexually assaulted with trained dogs and live rats" and was forced to engage in sexual acts with her father and brother, who were also detained.
The Eastern faction was further split between hardline Northerners and moderate Southerners over the question of punishing Chŏng Ch'ŏl and other Westerners.
The Han dynasty (202 BC – 220 AD), although it inherited the concept of family execution, was more moderate in inflicting such severe punishments.
Europe Azerbaijan Ethnic minorities in Azerbaijan, including Talyshis (see Talysh assimilation), Lezghins, Kurds, Tats and Georgian-Ingilois, are subjected to forced assimilation into Azerbaijani Turkic identity and ethnic discrimination by the Azerbaijani government since the Soviet era.
The Double-ten Directive stressed on the "educational" effects of the campaign, and cases of execution were publicized by the newspapers to inform the masses.
According to South Korean media he had held the post of Deputy Director of the Korean Workers' Party Administration Department.
Michael Anthony Sells, The Bridge Betrayed: Religion and Genocide in Bosnia, Berkeley: University of California Press, 1998, ISBN 978-0520206908.
This was an ironic occurrence as it was Shang Yang who formulated such a punishment into Qin law in the first place, being commonly recorded as a lawmaker who used excessive punishments.
Women with short hair and natural (unbound) feet were presumed to be radical and became a specific target of the White Terror; Nationalist forces would often mutilate and display their corpses in an effort to cow people.
Adler and Robert Hutchins to edit a set of great books to be published by Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.; the 52-volume set of Great Books of the Western World was published in 1952.
He personally signed a document of an interrogation on October 20, 1942, imposing a five-year gulag sentence on famous Polish actor Eugene Bodo (Eugeniusz Junod) who died in Kotlas in 1943, due to poor conditions (Russian red cross document from 1992).
In 1950, Michigan enacted life imprisonment for subversive propaganda; the following year, Tennessee enacted the death penalty for advocating the violent overthrow of the government.
He was hailed as a genius communist theoretician, glorified by the state media, and his image was ubiquitous in Romania.
The Yugoslav communists suspended the instructions not to proceed to the second stage (the revolution) given by the Comintern in June 1941.
John Service, they pointed out, had admitted that before he went to Yan'an he had not read the basic texts of Marxism, and the other China Hands were no better informed.
It won the Best Documentary Feature Film at the 2023 Indonesian Film Festival and Best Film during the Indonesian Screen Awards section at the 17th Jogja-NETPAC Asian Film Festival.
A doctor tells a friend of the Investigator how incredible his survival of a crash that had killed everyone else on the plane, and his reaching the bottom of the mountain during the night, are.
A total of 340,000 to 350,000 people were sentenced, of whom 140,000 were targeted in the Polish operation and about 55,000 in the German one.
In presenting the Haynes report in early October, The New York Times provided a context which his report did not mention.
His account says: An association of traitors has been organised at Lyon, banded together for the purpose of murder.
In 1990 and 1994, following the Romanian Revolution, 97 of the purged members were restored to the academy, post-mortem.
Mass operations of the People's Comissariate of Internal Affairs (NKVD) were carried out during the Great Purge and targeted specific categories of people.
He also made reference to Consuela and Maria Dolores Aguiar-Mella, two lay companions of Maria Baldilou Bullit, and the first people from Uruguay to be beatified.
On 10 December, coinciding Human Rights Day, screenings were held in at least 50 venues across 30 cities, with an estimated 30 to 600 audiences per theatre.
At the same time, the court's expansive reading of Article 1 of the Genocide Convention as potentially imposing on all states a duty to prevent genocide, even if committed outside their territory, has been noted for its remarkable boldness.
The Komsomol played a major role in fulfilling the tasks of the party in carrying out the cultural revolution.
For a long time in Korean history, Chŏng Yŏrip's rebellion has been accepted as a fact even by the Easterners, but some historians note that there was no evidence except confessions from tortured followers and letters and writings discovered in his house, which could have been forged.
Elected chairman of the Committee on Government Operations in 1952, he proceeded to use his position on the Investigations Subcommittee to conduct a wide-ranging smear campaign.
She is honored as a martyr of the Philippines' Martial Law era, having had her name etched on the wall of remembrance at the Philippines' Bantayog ng mga Bayani.
On 12 January 2019, the main telecommunications provider in Venezuela, CANTV, issued a block against the online encyclopedia, Wikipedia.
Next Congress From 1985 Congress until Hafez al-Assad's death and Bashar al-Assad's rise to power in 2000, regional congresses were never held in Syria.
Richard Whittaker of The Austin Chronicle concluded that in creating the film, he "paid a psychic toll".
In the Philippines, local legislatures of provinces, towns, and cities can declare certain people or groups, including non-diplomats and Filipino citizens, as persona non grata to express a negative sentiment toward the certain person through a non-binding resolution.
The Exiles (Indonesian: Eksil) is a 2022 Indonesian documentary film directed, co-written and produced by Lola Amaria in her feature documentary directorial debut.
According to Chinese historians, between January and October 1950, there were over 800 counter-revolutionary riots nationwide, and that more than 40,000 political activists and masses of cadres were killed as a result.
On television, when asked if he would take any action against Benton's reelection bid, McCarthy replied, "I think it will be unnecessary.
Evacuation was accomplished through a succession of forced marches, which came to be known as death marches.
The Times described newspapers, magazines, and "so-called 'negro betterment' organizations" as the way propaganda about the "doctrines of Lenin and Trotzky" was distributed to black people.
He mentioned an incident in which Gauhar asked Ali to remove a friend's name from the list, and Ali did so in his presence.
Other sources such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch also support an estimate of over 200,000 killed.
Modeled after the Deferegger expulsion, von Firmian's edict ordered Protestants to leave Salzburg within eight days, leaving behind all children under the age of 12.
The theatre traces its roots to the Solovtsov theatric troupe that existed in Kyiv since 1891 and also performed in the Bourgogne Theatre.
Sheil, took the reins, that Catholic Scouting flourished in Chicago." He was awarded the Silver Buffalo Award by the Boy Scouts of America in 1942.
Breaking the First United Front, in April 1927, regular units of the Nationalist Army allied with criminal triad organizations such as the Green Gang began massacring CCP members, trade unionists, and others they contended were radical.
Morsi's Islamist backers also set dozens of police stations ablaze across Egypt and attempted to storm provincial governor offices following Wednesday's bloody crackdown.
Governments that have banned video games have been criticized for a correlated increase in digital piracy, limiting business opportunities and violating rights.
In addition to muffling by the rough insulation in the execution cell, the pistol gunshots were masked by the operation of loud machines (perhaps fans) throughout the night.
Protesting against the establishment of the monument, they put a cross in its place at the end of July 2007, this cross was removed on 31 July 2007.
Although some informal blacklisting continued, the private "loyalty checking" agencies were soon a thing of the past.
From September 1941 onward, Communist Party program documents began to mention courts authorized to prescribe the death penalty.
Ethiopia – Mengistu Haile Mariam was sentenced to death but later commuted to life imprisonment after being found guilty in absentia.
The unofficial newsletter reported violations of civil rights and judicial procedure by the Soviet government and responses to those violations by citizens across the USSR.
In modern media: A fantasy variation on the oprichnina appears in the Japanese light novel franchise Gate.
See also Third Battle of Seoul Truth and Reconciliation Commission (South Korea) Bodo League massacre Jeju uprising Mungyeong massacre List of massacres in South Korea == References ==
On 22 July, protests in Cairo led to two deaths at a pro-Morsi rally as unknown gunmen opened fire on demonstrators.
During 1955 and 1956 the APRF played a significant role in a concerted campaign mounted by the far right against mental health legislation in California and at the federal level.
This arrest was followed by the arrests of many agents who worked for him in the central apparatus of the MGB.
July 14: The Garfield Park riot took place in Garfield Park, Indianapolis, where multiple people, including a 7-year-old girl, were wounded when gunfire broke out.
In response to the order, the Mormons surrendered and subsequently sought refuge in Nauvoo, Illinois.
00689) and suspended implementation of death sentences, signifying the end of the Great Purge ("Yezhovshchina").
Others who had received death penalties would have their sentences commuted by two years of manual labor, with their performance assessed as to determine whether the sentence would still be necessary.
News reached Rome of Mithridates' victories and the collapse of Roman rule in Asia in the autumn of 89 BC.
It is also alleged that Costero was baselessly accused of money laundering and incitement to hatred.
See also Damnatio memoriae Exile Ostracism Outlaw Refugee Notes References External links Media related to Persona non grata at Wikimedia Commons The dictionary definition of persona non grata at Wiktionary eDiplomat.com: Glossary of Diplomatic Terms Text of the Vienna Convention – PDF
Sculpting figures and decoration were carried out by Oleg Chernoivanov and Honored artist of Ukraine Nikolay Oleynik, both also from Kyiv.
Edgar Hoover to head a new division of the Justice Department's Bureau of Investigation, the General Intelligence Division (GID), with responsibility for investigating the programs of radical groups and identifying their members.
In March 1953, he was moved to the Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD) and took over its 1st Chief Directorate (counterintelligence).
Dunnigan, originally from Scotland, developed an interest in issues related to censorship and freedom of speech during his time in China.
Pravda reported the accusations under the headline "Vicious Spies and Killers under the Mask of Academic Physicians": Today the TASS news agency reported the arrest of a group of saboteur-doctors.
Shortly thereafter, in early August 1979, Hussein took to the balcony of the presidential mansion in Baghdad to inform “a chanting crowd of 50,000 supporters that he had just witnessed the punishment the state court had ordered for 21 of those men: They had been executed by a firing squad.
Therefore, all modern societies are faced with the inherent conflict prevailing between the two values, and there is no "eternal solution" as such.
As an economic reform program, the land reform succeeded in redistributing about 43% of China's cultivated land to approximately 60% of the rural population.
One of the most notable Soviet officials who had lost power as a result of this event was Georgy Malenkov; on the other hand, it has temporarily strengthened the power of Andrei Zhdanov.
Syria would go on to support Iraqi opposition parties for decades, including the pro-Iranian Shia Islamic Dawa Party.
According to surveys conducted in 23 villages in Hebei and Chahar, the speed of transition from poor tenant farmers to middle farmers was rapid after land reform.
December 1917 Paivio moved to New York City and joined the syndicalist trade union Industrial Workers of the World.
In 1948, the new Romanian Communist regime undertook a political purge of the members of the Romanian Academy.
The Jama'a, that is, the politicians closest to Assad personally, controlled the nomination of candidates and their election to these bodies.
The Allies again insisted that the Germans withdraw their remaining troops from Latvia, and on July 3 intervened to impose a Strazdumuiža armistice between Estonia, Latvia, and the Landeswehr and Freikorps when the Latvians and Estonians were about to march into Riga.
The investigation was led, on orders from Stalin, by Viktor Abakumov of the Ministry of State Security, who himself would be purged in the early 1950s, accused, among others, of misconduct during the Aviators Affair.
The Senate Subcommittee on Juvenile Delinquency oversaw this problem and aimed to completely ban comic books.
It has also been compared to the Irish Expulsion, the Palmer Raids and the “Soviet Ark”, the “Mexican Repatriation” during The Great Depression, “Operation Wetback” during the Dwight D.
On 27 July 2016, President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan shut down 16 television channels, 23 radio stations, 45 daily newspapers, 15 magazines and 29 publishing houses in another emergency decree under the newly adopted emergency legislation.
On 8 August, the Iraqi News Agency announced that twenty-one of the twenty-two Iraqis were executed by firing squad for "their part in a plot to overthrow Iraq's new president".
For Leonce and Lena, the Bulandra Theatre was packed with people who'd come to give standing ovations for Ciulei, Pintilie, Irina Petrescu and Caramitru.
It is important, however, to note that Tye notes that it was not, in his opinion, antisemitism alone that led to McCarthy's actions regarding the Malmedy massacre.
This process often intersects with broader historical events such as enslavement, forced immigration, or foreign conquest.
According to the European Federation of Journalists, 168 media outlets have been shut down during the state of emergency following the coup d'état attempt in July 2016.
1969 Advocacy work When the campaign period for the 1969 Philippine presidential election began, Philippine World War II hero Terry Adevoso organized a lobbying group of retired officers supporting opposition candidate Sergio Osmeña Jr.
The launch of e.tv prompted the SABC to restructure its three television channels in late September 1998.
It was said that even a man who shed tears because dust entered his eyes (when Chŏng Yŏrip's body was mutilated after his suicide) was killed for suspected sympathy for Chŏng Yŏrip.
Distracted by the Social war, the Romans immediately declared war on Mithridates but moved slowly in forming up forces.
Legacy Jordan's three ledgers were of importance to the FBI in mapping Soviet wartime activities in the United States.
Inspired by film noir films, killing methods include strangulation, stabbing, and throwing people into rivers.
He served as an international representative for the International Union of Mine, Mill and Smelter Workers.
After extensive preparation, on 13 April, Reichssender Berlin broadcast to the world that German military forces in the Katyn forest near Smolensk had uncovered "a ditch…28 metres long and 16 metres wide [92 ft by 52 ft], in which the bodies of 3,000 Polish officers were piled up in 12 layers".
Cultural depictions Ivan Lazhechnikov wrote the tragedy The Oprichniki (Russian: Опричники), on which Tchaikovsky based his opera The Oprichnik.
The American Public Relations Forum (APRF) was a conservative anti-communist organization for Catholic women, established in southern California in 1952 with its headquarters in Burbank.
Other destinations Over 30,000 Salzburgers emigrated as a result of the expulsion edict, the majority of them settling in East Prussia.
In the following years, many volumes of the case were declassified and transferred to the Polish government, but others remained classified.
These students were Indiana natives, mostly from small towns, although the leader of the group, Blas Davis, was from the Gary-Hammond-East Chicago area.
The increase in itinerants may have motivated the ultimate institutionalization of serfdom by the Russian throne.
Paivio and Alonen were the first activists convicted in the State of New York for violating the Criminal Anarchy law, although it was passed already in 1902 right after the assassination of the president William McKinley.
Authorities viewed with alarm African-Americans' advocacy of racial equality and labor rights, and incidents involving the deaths of whites furthered fears.
I am the Chief!" The next day, with arrangements in Heaven restored, the restored Gatekeeper assigns an assistant to bring the former Investigator "Down There".
Taylor secured employment within the United States Department of the Treasury through Secretary Harry Dexter White in 1941.
In all of 2016 51,493 streets and 987 cities and villages were renamed, 25 raions were renamed and 1,320 Lenin monuments and 1,069 monuments to other communist figures removed.
Exhibits The museum houses a collection of banned and censored books from various countries and time periods, showcasing the reasons behind their censorship and the impact of such actions on society.
On 26 February 2006, the National Archives of Korea admitted a 30 August 1951 official document in which then Attorney General Jo Jinman reported to then-Prime Minister Chang Myon about the massacre.
This was part of Stalin's reaffirming his power in the aftermath of World War II and eliminating or weakening individuals who gained power during that period (mainly prominent leaders of the arms industry and military commanders).
Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 The Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 was debated and passed in the context of Cold War-era fears and suspicions of infiltrating Soviet and communist spies and sympathizers within American institutions and federal government.
In Ukraine, lustration (Ukrainian: люстрація, romanized: liustratsiia) refers to the removal from public office of civil servants who served under Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych.
The Justice Department launched a series of raids on January 2, 1920, with follow up operations over the next few days.
All three burial sites had already been secret cemeteries of the victims of the Great Purge of 1937–1938.
Poland – Wojciech Jaruzelski avoided most court appearances, citing poor health, and was never convicted.
In his homily he preached on the Transfiguration and pointed to the example of the martyr's sacrifice, and urged the church in Spain to be worthy of their example.
Free Fire was banned in India following government action against apps linked to Chinese companies, citing national security and data privacy concerns.
Punishment by nine exterminations was abolished near the end of the Qing dynasty, and was officially repealed by the imperial government in 1905.
These rumors only increased as reports of the Battle of Crooked River reached the capital at Jefferson City, with exaggerated accounts of Mormons supposedly slaughtering Bogart's militia company, including those who had surrendered.
Sexual abuse Pinochet's regime perpetrated numerous gruesome and horrific acts of sexual abuse against its victims.
Life Taylor, born in British Columbia, studied at the University of British Columbia and later attended school with Nathan Gregory Silvermaster at the University of California, Berkeley, where he received a Ph.D.
On 2 November 2014, the International Crimes Tribunal, Bangladesh, sentenced Mir Quasem Ali to death for war crimes, which include the killings of intellectuals.
He and his wife established the Commodore Drug pharmacy chain, and continued to be prominent Marcos Critics as private citizens.
See also Ivan Franko National Academic Drama Theater, the original Solovtsov Theater building References External links Official website
The Deferegger Protestants were forced to leave during winter, without the stipulated three-year grace period.
On 23 September 1891 the city council decided to establish a contest for monument projects with two awards (two and one thousand rubles) for the best work.
Among the victims of the White Terror in Shanghai were the "Five Martyrs of the Left League", members of the League of Left-Wing Writers who were arrested in 1931 at a meeting along with nineteen other CCP members and sympathizers and then executed.
As a result of being listed in the pages of this volume, many of these 41 women found it difficult to find employment in media industries.
In 1960, he was "Chairman of the Committee for a Free Gold Market" and "President of the Toronto Gold Market Co.," and became president of "Greater Canada Gold Investments Ltd." His speeches were often printed and circulated.
Americans were especially paranoid about possibly having communists in the country, especially in the government, so alleged communists were often tried and fired.
One essay also included, in metatheoretical terms, a criticism of the theoretical foundations for so-called conflict theory.
Prime Minister Andrej Babiš condemned that as foreign interference, while Kremlin Press Secretary Dmitry Peskov dismissed allegations of Russian involvement as "another hoax".
The first reference to their existence appears in the records of the National Convention in a report presented on 25 June 1795 from Marie-Joseph Chénier on the recent killings in Lyons.
In support of its claims, the APRF republished Brain-Washing: A Synthesis of the Russian Textbook on Psychopolitics, a pamphlet claimed to have been originated by Stalin's secret police chief Lavrenty Beria but now widely regarded as a forgery written by L.
Leading politicians from the Weimar years had been identified on a so-called government "A-list" as early as 1935/36, divided into sub-categories A-1, A-2 and A-3.
The APRF claimed that the law was intended to give the government authority to abduct citizens at will and imprison them in concentration camps in Alaska.
Communist years According to Whittaker Chambers, in early spring of 1925 Krieger was the "first American communist" he ever met.
Current judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and the Supreme Court of Ukraine will not be subject to lustration either.
Nevertheless, Hitler gave notice in April 1942 that "if a mutiny were to break out today somewhere in the country", it would meet with an immediate response (Sofortmaßnahmen).
The number of victims of the Companions of Jehu is impossible to know, because there is no reliable way of distinguishing between organised murders and more chaotic lynchings.
In 1996, the SABC reorganised its three TV channels with the aim of making them more representative of the various cultural groups.
On May 4, 1946, the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued its Instructions on Land Issues.
They asserted that in Jackson County alone, $120,000 worth of their property was destroyed, and that fifteen thousand of their number fled from the state.
He served in the Korean People's Army between 1980 and 1984 and attended Kim Il Sung University, studying economics.
The Boston Police Strike in early September raised concerns about possible threats to political and social stability.
Command of the Naval Operations Force against Smuggling In 1964 president Diosdado Macapagal placed Alcaraz in command of the Naval Operations Force (NOF) he had created to combat smuggling, particularly of foreign cigarettes.
Without Kim Il Sung's approval, Kim produced work called An Act of Sincerity – described variously as either a film or a stage play – that honored the feats of Pak and his wife as members of the Kapsan Operation Committee and the life of Pak.
En route, Krieger told Chambers his name, adding, "But my name in the party is 'Clarence Miller'." Chambers estimated the meeting consisted of 40–50 men and women of different nationalities who spoke predominantly English, Greek and Yiddish.
The Euromaidan protests started in November 2013 and ended with the 22 February 2014 removal of office of President Viktor Yanukovych.
In non-diplomatic usage, referring to someone as persona non grata is to say that the person is not popular or accepted by others.
Also, one of the scholars on whose work Parsons and Nelson would share internal commentaries was Habermas.
Within a few years, however, the New Order elite, with the military and a small civilian faction at its centre, had alienated many original allies.
The monument was restored in 2007 with the private funds of Ruslan Tarpan, an Odesa businessman and member of the Odesa City Council.
Dismantling and move Protesters unsuccessfully petitioned for the removal of the monument following the 2014 Revolution of Dignity.
Jordan gave a detailed and personal account of how Soviet Lend-lease worked in practice during 1943–44.
Balthaser has stated that his own grandparents, Jewish members of the Communist Party, referred to the Second Red Scare as a "pogrom".
Benton's comeback bid failed in 1958 when, running against Bowles and Thomas Dodd he failed to win the Democratic nomination for the U.S.
The White Terror was an anti-communist political repression campaign by the Nationalist government in the Republic of China which began with the Shanghai massacre in April 1927 and continued through the early 1930s.
Background John Francis Noto of Buffalo, New York, was the chairman of the CPUSA for upstate New York.
See also List of people who disappeared mysteriously: post-1970 Extrajudicial killings and forced disappearances in the Philippines == References ==
00447, an operation to repress ex-kulaks, criminals, and other anti-Soviet "elements" Family members of traitors to the Motherland Rollback On November 17, 1938 a joint decree No.
Carl Paivio (born Karl Einar Päiviö; 23 November 1893 – April 1952) was a Finnish American labor activist and anarchist.
In 1953, Timashuk was awarded the Order of Lenin (later revoked) "for the assistance in unmasking killer doctors", and for a long time Timashuk had an unjust stigma of the instigator of this persecution of doctors after Khrushchev in his "Secret Speech" mentioned her in this respect.
Before this massacre, 140 people were executed in Ganghwa as part of the Bodo League massacre in 1950.
Romanian leader Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, the General Secretary of the Romanian Communist Party (PCR), had quietly pursued a "national communist" party line to reduce the influence of the Soviet Union.
According to a history of Catholic Scouting, while Cardinal Mundelein of Chicago had "explored the possibility of Scouting for his 'street kiddies,' it was not until his newly consecrated auxiliary, Bishop Bernard J.
Since Kim had published An Act of Sincerity, Kim was forced to leave his office as director of the Propaganda and Agitation Department.
In particular, it also led to the implementation of quotas in further CCP campaigns, which were assigned to local officials as a means of indicating the results of such campaigns.
Many of these cities were under the control of tyrants, and many of the inhabitants enthusiastically fell upon their Italian neighbours, who were blamed "for the prevailing climate of aggressive greed[,] acquisitiveness[,] and...
The stated purpose is for museum visitors to consider perspectives they might find offensive in other contexts.
On October 4, 1919, hundreds of striking workers assaulted a stalled street car bearing 40 black strikebreakers.
The New York Times wrote that Jordan was advertising manager for several brewing companies in New York at various times.
Bernard James Sheil (February 18, 1888 – September 13, 1969) was an Auxiliary Roman Catholic Bishop of Chicago.
Led by Mustafa Dzhemilev, they founded their own democratic and decentralized organization, considered unique in the history of independent movements in the Soviet Union.
Historian Łukasz Kamiński of the Institute of National Remembrance said, "Memorials in city centers and villages can send the wrong historical signal...
The PCR launched an offensive against cultural autonomy in Romania and returned to the guidelines of socialist realism.
298 (1957) Smith Act trials of communist party leaders References External links Works related to Noto v.
The collection includes a diverse range of books that have been banned for political, religious, social, or moral reasons.
He first gained nationwide attention in December 1949 when he testified to the United States Congress about wartime Lend-Lease deliveries to the Soviet Union, in the process implicating Harry Hopkins and other high officials in the transfer of nuclear and other secrets to the USSR.
The ESRB's highest rating, "Adults Only", has been considered a total ban on the mainstream sale of certain games, as most retailers refuse to stock games carrying the rating, and they cannot be published on major video game consoles due to company policies.
It is this company which is spreading a new terror in this commune, more vigorous and more widespread than Chalier and his bloody accomplices unleashed.
Kechker [ru] (therapist, professor) Although the majority of accused were not Jewish, six of the nine mentioned doctors were.
As a result, in modern historiography there is a traditional, but contested, correlation of the cultural revolution in the Soviet Union only with the 1928–1931 period.
Through the 1930s and 1940s Paivio was a prominent leftist political organizer, lecturer and instructor.
Officials rarely intervened to prevent acts of embezzlement as long as the funds were being stolen by people loyal to them.
On 4 July 1951, the Politburo set up a commission (headed by Malenkov and including Lavrentiy Beria) to investigate the issue.
On 7 February 1951, 705 unarmed citizens in Sancheong and Hamyang, South Gyeongsang district of South Korea were killed.
Premise The Exiles follows the stories of Indonesian students who are stranded and unable to return to Indonesia after the events of the 30 September Movement in 1965.
Converted to a museum in 1966, the William Benton Museum of Art on the university's main campus in Storrs was named in his honor in 1972.
He taught economics at the University of Hawaii for eight years and became a naturalized citizen of the United States in 1940.
All who arrive there must be investigated to determine whether they should remain in Heaven (not referred to by that name) or be deported to Hell (also not named).
Fe3+), reduction of trace elements from less soluble oxidised to highly soluble reduced forms (e.g., Fe3+ to Fe2+, Mn4+ to Mn2+), associative/non-symbiotic N2-fixation, protective antagonism to plant pathogens, enhancement of mycorrhizal infection and growth, and stimulating hormonal effects.
Orange firethorn (Pyracantha angustifolia) is considered to be a weed or potential ("sleeper") weed in several states or territories of Australia, including Victoria, Australian Capital Territory and New South Wales.
scrobicollis, which is monophagous and has been specifically studied since 2002, continues to be blocked, despite researchers' many petitions for approval.
If the animal dies, the plant may gain nutrients as the animal decomposes nearby, though this has not been confirmed.
It is native to much of Africa, Asia (Brunei Darussalam, China, India, Japan, Korea, and the Philippines) and parts of Australia.
Straw is an abundant agricultural waste product, and requires little energy to bale and transport for construction.
Description Echeveria colorata is an evergreen perennial succulent, with a rosette of fleshy leaves growing up to 40 centimetres (16 in) in diameter.
Zinnia bidens – Glossocardia bidens Zinnia liebmannii – Philactis zinnioides Zinnia elegans, also known as Zinnia violacea, is the most familiar species, originally from the warm regions of Mexico being a warm–hot climate plant.
The genus is native to scrub and dry grassland in an area stretching from the Southwestern United States to South America, with a centre of diversity in Mexico.
The outer two-thirds of the leaf blade bears outward-pointing spines which may be an adaptation to prevent herbivores from reaching the centre of the plant.
Agave parryi, known as Parry's agave or mescal agave, is a flowering plant in the family Asparagaceae, subfamily Agavoideae.
Flowers The very conspicuous cup-shaped inflorescences have a diameter of usually 5–7 cm (2.0–2.8 in) and contain tongue and tubular flowers, which are surrounded by bracts.
Bioplastic Rice straw, an agricultural waste which is not usually recovered, can be turned into a cellulose-based bioplastic with mechanical properties akin to polystyrene in its dry state.
Flower-buds ovoid, angled, Calyx lobes 5, divided to the base, white, ovate; corolla broadly rotate, valvate, lobes 5, deltoid ovate, reflexed, coronate-appendages broad, obtusely 2-auricled below the rounded apex which is lower than the staminal-column.
References Bibliography Data related to Aristolochia acuminata at Wikispecies Media related to Aristolochia acuminata at Wikimedia Commons
Unlike more commonly known species such as common milkweed or butterflyweed, fourleaf milkweed is a woodland denizen.
The milky juice of Calotropis procera was used against arthritis, cancer, and as an antidote for snake bite.
The most commonly used are willows and poplars, which can grow 6 - 8’ per year and have a high flood tolerance.
It is found in the eastern deserts of Egypt, through the East Mediterranean region and into Iraq, Pakistan and Afghanistan.
In Nepal it is also a common practice to cook these greens with meat of all sorts, especially goat meat; which is normally prepared in a pressure cooker with minimal use of spices to focus on the flavour of the greens and dry chillies.
The pollen are in a structure named pollinia which is attached to a glandular, adhesive disc at the stigmatic angle (translator mechanism).
Cornus sanguinea, the common dogwood or bloody dogwood, is a species of dogwood native to most of Europe and western Asia, from England and central Scotland east to the Caspian Sea.
The leaves are opposite, 4–8 centimetres (2–3 in) long and 2–4 centimetres (0.8–1.6 in) broad, with an ovate to oblong shape and an entire margin; they are green above, slightly paler below, and rough with short stiff pubescence.
They are flattened uniform ellipsoids, 1–1.9 cm (3⁄8–3⁄4 in) long, .8–1.3 cm (3⁄8–1⁄2 in) wide and 4–6.5 cm (2–3 in) thick.
Cultivation Since it is attractive and drought-tolerant, rosemary is used as an ornamental plant in gardens and for xeriscape landscaping, especially in regions of Mediterranean climate.
It has a deep taproot which makes it tolerant to drought and gives it a good soil structuring effect.
The places where the species is distributed, present a dry, arid, semi-warm climate, with a marked wet season in the summer, where the average annual rainfall is between 380 and 450 mm (15 and 18 in) and its average temperature throughout the year is of 21.2 °C (70.2 °F).
Clematicissus opaca was once classified as Cissus opaca, however a combination of genetic and morphological features led to it being placed within the genus Clematicissus.
Stubble-mulching refers to leaving the stubble or crop residue essentially in place on the land as a surface cover during a fallow period.
It is native to the Mediterranean Basin and is a common plant there, growing on sites comparable to those the European common hawthorn grows on.
Its salt tolerance, coupled with it being an evergreen, make it a good choice for wind barriers in lands close to the sea.
Pollinator plant This species is a food source for adult Crescent Metalmark butterflies (Apodemia phyciodoides).
The plant reproduces vegetatively when branches break off the main axis, or sexually when sporocarps on the leaves release spores.
Description The plant grows up to 2 metres (6+1⁄2 feet) high, exceptionally to 3 metres (10 ft), with many horizontal (divaricate) branches, generally with thorns (spinescent), often in thickets.
Description The plant grows to a height of about 30 centimetres (12 in) and has erect stems with spiny wings.
Taxonomy The plant was first classified as Emplectocladus fasciculata in an 1853 paper by John Torrey based on a collection of the plants of California acquired during the third expedition of John C.
Bambara groundnut is mainly cultivated as intercrop, however the planting density varies between 6 and 29 plants per square meter.
In the United States it is found throughout the west from Washington (state) to California and eastwards to Montana to New Mexico including all the states between.
The 'Profusion' cultivars, with both single and double-flowered components, are among the most well-known of this hybrid group.
The fruit is a juicy drupe about 7–9 millimetres (1⁄4–3⁄8 in) in diameter, normally forming in pairs or clusters.
Season and Harvesting Plants are capable of seed production once they reach a height of about 1 metre (3.3 ft).
The red clover has become increasingly important as a source of economic stability in Chile, which has made the need for pollinators even more important.
There is commercial and scientific interest in this variety, and its genetics are being researched to develop other self-fertilizing varieties that would reduce or eliminate the need for other fertilizers.
Cultivation Texas sage is a popular ornamental plant, commonly used for edge and area plantings in warmer and drier areas; it requires minimal water, is easily shaped into hedges, and blooms over the entire surface.
Description Cajanus scarabaeoides is a very close wild relative species of Cajanus cajan (common name, pigeonpea).
Herb gardens may be purely functional or they may include a blend of functional and ornamental plants.
It is intricately divided into thorn-tipped branches lined with clusters of small, deciduous, gray-green leaves no longer than about 1.5 centimeters.
Cultivation Abutilon pictum is cultivated as a popular ornamental plant, for use in gardens in subtropical and warm temperate climates.
In the center of the city (Puerta del Sol) there is a statue of a bear eating the fruit of the Madroño tree.
The racemes of tubular or funnel-shaped flowers are terminal, and colors are mostly reddish, ranging from fuchsia to pink to red-orange.
As with the closely related Cissus, the vines climb by means of tendrils produced opposite each leaf.
Lavandula multifida, the fernleaf lavender or Egyptian lavender, is a small plant, sometimes a shrub, native to the southern regions of the Mediterranean, including Iberia, Sicily, Northwest Africa and the Canary Islands.
Yucca angustissima is a low-lying species forming colonies of basal rosettes up to 3 m (10 feet) in diameter.
Description Fourleaf milkweed is a perennial herb with an upright stem growing from a fleshy rhizome.
Nathaniel Lord Britton and Joseph Nelson Rose placed the species in the genus Myrtillocactus in the same year References External links Media related to Myrtillocactus schenckii at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Myrtillocactus schenckii at Wikispecies
The feeder layer allows the plants to receive fertilizer without contaminating the stream, while simultaneously removing heavy metals from the water.
Coelospermum reticulatum, commonly known as medicine bush, is a species of flowering plant in the family Rubiaceae native to New Guinea, the Northern Territory, and Queensland.
latifolium Cultivation As befits their origin, they prefer to be cultivated in well-drained soil exposed to full sun but protected from the wind, and need little watering.
Distribution The natural range of Aloe buettneri is mainly West African Savannas especially Senegal, Nigeria and Togo, however, it has been found as far as Central and Southern Africa in countries such as Zambia and Malawi.
Juncus patens is a species of rush, known by the common names spreading rush and California grey rush.
Description Indigofera heterantha is a deciduous shrub growing to 2–3 m (7–10 ft) tall and broad, with pinnate leaves, each leaf carrying up to 21 grey-green oval leaflets, and racemes of purple pea-like flowers in summer.
The species is also called Texas Ranger, Texas rain sage, cenizo, Texas silverleaf, Texas barometerbush, ash-bush, wild lilac, purple sage, senisa, cenicilla, palo cenizo, or hierba del cenizo.
Because the rose hips remain on the plant throughout the winter, they provide food for wildlife during times when little forage is available.
It is found in many Northern California mountain ranges, including the Klamath Mountains and the North California Coast Ranges, the Cascade Range, the Sierra Nevada, the Modoc Plateau, White Mountains and Inyo Mountains.
It has also been found as an introduced species in Ontario, Canada and Hungary in the European Union.
In Toronto streets, setts were used by streetcar routes and disappeared by the 1980s, but are still found in the Distillery District.
The thick, white inflorescences have traditionally been harvested in Arabia for stuffing cushions and saddle pads.
A well-designed potager can provide food as well as cut flowers and herbs for the home with very little maintenance.
Shod horses are also able to get better traction on stone cobbles, pitches or setts than tarmac or asphalt.
Each flower has a single pistil, but six pollen producing stamens which emerge when the petals or sepals are touched.
It grows at the edge of desert dry washes in the eastern Mojave Desert and Sonoran Desert at altitudes below 610 meters (2,000 feet).
scarabaeoides can be crossed with pigeonpea cultivars for this desirable trait, farmers can reduce harvest time and increase overall yield.
Many cattle, goats, and sheep consider the berry of this plant to be a palatable food source, but is only heavily utilized where the annual growth of this plant is abundant.
The seed contains too much cyanide to be edible, although there is some archaeological evidence that the ancient population of the Mojave Desert pounded the seeds into flour and leached it to make it edible.
Plateau gravel a layer of gravel on a plateau or other region above the height at which stream-terrace gravel is usually found.
They are translucent with many black stripes and a clear edge up to 1 mm wide, sometimes with yellowish or pink pigments, the tip is ciliate.
It is also eaten to some degree by the Mountain cottontail rabbit and heavily eaten by the snowshoe hare in winter.
The stems are thin, gray-green, often somewhat waxy, and grooved, and grow 30–90 centimetres (12–35 in) in height.
Salvia rosmarinus, synonym Rosmarinus officinalis, commonly known as rosemary, is a shrub with fragrant, evergreen, needle-like leaves and purple or sometimes white, pink, or blue flowers.
As with ready-to-use spray bottles or cans, the mixture is applied to all surfaces of a plant's leaves and stems.
Piedmont gravel a coarse gravel carried down from high places by mountain streams and deposited on relatively flat ground, where the water runs more slowly.
C-N Leonurine (also known as SCM-198 in research) is a pseudoalkaloid that has been isolated from Leonotis leonurus, Leonotis nepetifolia, Leonurus japonicus, Leonurus cardiaca (motherwort), Leonurus sibiricus, as well as other plants of family Lamiaceae.
In the United States it is primarily found in the great plains mostly west of the Mississippi from Minnesota and Montana in the north to New Mexico and Louisiana in the south.
It is believed that illegal harvest is occurring on public lands and non-permitted harvesting is also taking place on private land.
Aloe buettneri growth overlaps with the growth of Aloe schweinfurthii, which is, along with Aloe buettneri, is usually referred to as Aloe barteri Baker.
Many frugivorous passerines find them simply irresistible, and prefer them over fruits grown by humans.
It was originally described as Pogonolobus reticulatus in 1858, before being transferred to its current name in 1867.
The five smooth petals and sepals have a bowl-like bloom, semi-inferior ovaries, and compound veiny and hairy leaves.
Lawn cultivars Only three North American grasses are both drought tolerant and suitable for use as a lawn.
It is a perennial plant, which is endemic to California chaparral and woodlands habitats on the Channel Islands in Southern California, and on Guadalupe Island west of the Baja California Peninsula in Baja California, Mexico.
This practical garden was to be separated from the pleasure gardens, enclosed by a thick hedge or wall.
Different parts of the plant are also used in ritual purification by several Native American cultures.
The material collected by Allan Cunningham from York Sound in Western Australia became the type material.
The leaves are rimmed by alternating paired and solitary teeth and come together to form an underground bulb-like base making the plant appear stemless.
Indigofera gerardiana), commonly known as Himalayan indigo, is a species of flowering plant in the legume family Fabaceae.
Crossosoma bigelovii, known by the common name ragged rockflower, is one of only a few species in the flowering plant family Crossosomataceae.
There is a ridge along its length and the husk is covered in loose, orange hairs that cause a severe itch if they contact skin.
Chrysolepis also differs from another allied genus Castanea (chestnuts), in nuts that take 14–16 months to mature (3–5 months in Castanea), evergreen leaves and the shoots having a terminal bud.
It is frequently suggested that white sage is protected by the Endangered Species Act of 1973, which is a common misconception.
It is drought tolerant and very hardy, down to −15 °C (5 °F) However, in colder areas it can be herbaceous, meaning that at the end of the season it dies back down to ground level before regrowing the following year.
The plant is thus often grown in organic gardening and permaculture to prevent harm to orchard crops, while benefiting from the fact that even frugivorous birds will hunt pest insects during the breeding season, as their young require much protein to grow.
See also Phytoremediation Hyperaccumulating Plants Biodegradation Bioremediation References External links Phytoremediation and Hyperaccumulator Plants Comprehensive overview.
Xerophytic plants exhibit a diversity of specialized adaptations to survive in such water-limiting conditions.
Distribution and habitat Californian white sage is a common plant that requires well-drained dry soil, full sun, and little water.
Pepper vine is naturally found in rocky locales in monsoon forest, littoral rainforest and open forest, and is occasionally grown as a garden plant.
Description An evergreen perennial, it forms large, dense rosettes of grey-green, strap-like leaves edged with hooked spines.
Epilobium canum (or its cultivar(s)) is a recipient of the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit under the Zauschneria californica name.
a top so densely branched, angled and interlocked as to well merit the name Emplectocladus (Greek, "woven branch"), signifying interlocked branches ...
Insect visitors to the plant include wasps, honeybees, and lepidopterans such as moths and the cabbage white.
In Mexico, it is common to find them in different presentations as a snack or candy: salty, "Japanese" peanuts, praline, enchilados or in the form of a traditional sweet made with peanuts and honey called palanqueta, and even as peanut marzipan.
Potential protocarnivory The plant is believed to be hazardous to sheep and birds which may become entangled in the spines of the leaves.
Some cultivars are more susceptible than others—the flies prefer the largest, sweetest fruits, while a nearby tree bearing smaller, less-sweet fruits suffers little damage.
scarabaeoides range from 2.4–4 mm long, 1.8–3 mm wide, and 1–2 mm thick and are either black in colour or speckled.
The seedlings grow best in full sunlight, and need to grow for as long as 15 months in the nursery before planting in the field.
platypoda with Ficus leucotricha, which was described by Miquel in 1861, however as the former name is older, it has become the accepted name instead.
References External links Media related to Carduus argentatus at Wikimedia Commons Data related to Carduus argentatus at Wikispecies
Bambara groundnut can tolerate heavy rainfall, but it will result in yield losses if they happen at harvest.
As a food and source of income, the Bambara groundnut is considered to be the third most important leguminous crop in those African countries where it is grown, after peanut and cowpea.
In a study published in 2008, Nina Rønsted and colleagues analysed the DNA sequences from the nuclear ribosomal internal and external transcribed spacers (ITS and ETS), and the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (G3pdh) region, in the first molecular analysis of the section Malvanthera.
Slow the Spread has been implemented across the 1,200-mile (1,900 km) spongy moth frontier from Wisconsin to North Carolina.
Relationship to plant life In locales where gravelly soil is predominant, plant life is generally more sparse.
Pale pink to white flowers are borne in 1 to 3 rounded, usually pendulous clusters, or umbels from the leaf axils and terminus.
This genus name was a shortened form of Bubalochloe, a Latinized form of the common name buffalo grass.
Its alternate leaves are small, 5–9 centimetres (2–3+1⁄2 inches) long and 4–7 cm (1+1⁄2–3 in) broad, lobed, juicy green when new.
In sustainable gardening and sustainable landscaping, Juncus patens is used in rain gardens and phytoremediation swales and intermittent ponds.
The complex supports integrated pest management and biological pest control, research, and includes the Insectary, Quarantine Facility, Insect Preparation Facility, eight specialized greenhouses, a lathhouse, and storage.
Distribution This annual herb is native to: Northern Mexico in Coahuila, Chihuahua, Sonora, and San Luis Potosí states; and the Southwestern United States within Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas.
It is present in New Zealand as an introduced species and an invasive weed that has crowded out a native relative, Azolla rubra.
Now, several years later, the affected communities as well as the nascent US pheromone industry (which provides safer, yet very effective, alternatives to the use of conventional pesticides) are still suffering the ripple effects of these disastrous Bay Area LBAM eradication campaigns.
Modern knappers are advised to work in the open air to reduce the dust hazard, and to wear eye and hand protection.
Types Bioeffectors directly or indirectly affect plant performance by influencing the functional implementation or activation of biological mechanisms, particularly those interfering with soil-plant-microbe interactions.
kanabensis Archived 2013-11-23 at the Wayback Machine Gartendatenbank, Gabriele Jesdinsky, Berlin, Palmlilien (Yucca angustissima) Archived 2015-09-24 at the Wayback Machine Sunshine Seeds, Ahlen Germany, Yucca angustissima, Palmlilie, Yucca
Fennel fruit is a common and traditional spice in flavored Scandinavian brännvin (a loosely defined group of distilled spirits, which include akvavit).
White oil is a grade of mineral oil used as an insecticide spray used for controlling a wide range of insect pests in the garden.
However, it is vital that plants living in dry conditions are adapted so as to decrease the size of the open stomata, lower the rate of transpiration, and consequently reduce water loss to the environment.
xanti, known commonly as chaparral nightshade, purple nightshade, and San Diego nightshade, is a variety of nightshade.
It has been reported from the states of Arizona, California, Nevada, Baja California, Chihuahua, and Sonora.
The fruit is a densely spiny cupule containing 1–3 sweet, edible nuts, eaten by the indigenous peoples.
Control of plant-parasitic nematodes Purpureocillium lilacinum was first observed in association with nematode eggs in 1966 and the fungus was subsequently found parasitising the eggs of Meloidogyne incognita in Peru.
Erythranthe alsinoides is a species of monkeyflower known by the common names wingstem monkeyflower and chickweed monkeyflower.
This complex of facilities was first established in 1923 as part of the UC Citrus Experiment Station, and is currently managed by the University of California, Riverside Department of Entomology.
John Wilkes's Encyclopaedia Londinensis (volume III, 1810) makes note of the "remarkable" features of the plant including the leaves' spots of white (pictured), which it reports are found in three other species of "Egyptian thistle".
azarolus is often divided into subspecies or varieties, for example Christensen in his monograph uses four varieties: C.
Less than 2 centimeters long with 3 to 5 prominent veins on the upper surface, they are oppositely arranged about the small stem.
Funastrum cynanchoides (formerly called Sarcostemma cynanchoides), also known as fringed twinevine, twining milkweed or climbing milkweed, is a perennial plant in the family Apocynaceae that grows twining through other plants in the Mojave Desert and Sonoran Desert.
This may be associated with how they survive without sugar production via photosynthesis for a relatively long duration.
The most important groups of natural enemies associated with garlic mustard were weevils (particularly the genus Ceutorhynchus), leaf beetles, butterflies, and moths, including the larvae of some moth species such as the garden carpet moth.
Sierra Mixe corn is a traditional variety of maize grown in the Sierra Mixe region of Mexico, especially the town of Totontepec Villa de Morelos.
In cooler temperate regions, it must be kept indoors for the winter, as it does not tolerate temperatures of −4 °C (25 °F) and below.
The first to use the term dynamic accumulator in the above definition was probably Robert Kourik in his book Designing and Maintaining Your Edible Landscape—Naturally (1986).
High-emission dispensers There are several very high dose pheromone dispensers, some do it passively, like pheromone sachets and large dollops of SPLAT pheromone formulations, others do it be actively releasing bursts of sex pheromone at timed intervals.
Barometer bush Texas sage is nicknamed the "barometer bush" due to a commonly held belief that it can predict the rain.
The flavor of the berries is quite tart with an astringent quality, and generally more attractive to birds than humans.
Fennel seeds are 52% carbohydrates (including 40% dietary fiber), 15% fat, 16% protein, and 9% water.
state of Texas, where it is the official "State Native Shrub of Texas", and to the states of Coahuila, Nuevo León, and Tamaulipas in northern Mexico.
See also Hyperaccumulator List of hyperaccumulators Permaculture References External links The Facts about Dynamic Accumulators Does Comfrey Really Improve Soil?
Seeds that are chewed and crushed while raw will release cyanogenic glycosides, and can cause mild gastro-intestinal problems when eaten in large enough quantities.
In North America, the plant offers very little wildlife benefits and is toxic to larvae of certain rarer butterfly species (e.g.
Thus, the seed and plant can utilise the water available from short-lived rainfall for a much longer time compared to mesophytic plants.
The accompanying leaves are about 12.5 mm (1⁄2 in) long; the flower stand axes are from 2.5–5 mm (1⁄8–3⁄16 in).
Species There are two species of Chrysolepis — Chrysolepis chrysophylla and Chrysolepis sempervirens — which like many species in the related genera of Castanopsis and Castanea are called chinquapin, also spelled "chinkapin".
These "soft hammer" techniques also produce longer, thinner flakes, potentially allowing for material conservation or a lighter lithic tool kit to be carried by mobile societies.
Indian cuisine uses roasted, crushed peanuts to give a crunchy body to salads; they are added whole to leafy vegetable stews and rice for the same reason.
Cultivars Cultivars of the species, for use as an ornamental plant, include: Frangula (Rhamnus) californica 'Eve Case' — Eve Case coffeeberry; smaller and more compact (3-6' H x 3-4' W), with denser foliage and larger berries than other species.
Abutilon palmeri, known as Palmer's abutilon, superstition mallow, and Palmer's Indian mallow is a species of flowering plant native the Southwestern United States and northwestern Mexico.
The seed producing inflorescences are very modified compared with other grasses including the other grasses in the Bouteloua genus, looking like a round globe topped with short spikes, appropriately called a spikelet, with three to seven spikelets per bur.
The term Pyracantha derives from the Greek pyrakantha, referring to pyr "fire", and akantha "thorn, thorny plant".
Leonurine is easily extracted into water.[1] One experimental animal study suggests that the aqueous leaf extract of Leonotis leonurus possesses antinociceptive, antiinflammatory, and hypoglycemic properties.
Cultivars Cultivars of Juncus patens, selected for blue and/or gray foliage emphasis, include: Juncus patens 'Carman's Grey' — Carmen's California Gray Rush, steely blue-gray.
Each small flower has four white petals 4–8 mm (0.2–0.3 in) long and 2–3 mm (0.08–0.12 in) broad, arranged in a cross shape.
Uses Fences Waraqu are cultivated for the use of planting them close together to make living fences.
Crataegus azarolus is a species of hawthorn known by the common names azarole, azerole (from Arabic: الزُّعرُورَة, romanized: az-zu'rūra) and Mediterranean medlar.
The leaves are alternate and ovate or oblong-elliptic in shape with rounded apices, with three main longitudinal veins originating from the petiole.
truncata Gentry, Mescal agave Gallery References External links Media related to Agave parryi at Wikimedia Commons USDA Forest Service: Parry's Agave (Agave parryi) Mescal Agave Archived 2016-08-27 at the Wayback Machine Arizona.edu: Agave parryi var.
Torrefied straw in the form of pellets can be directly co-fired with coal or natural gas at very high rates and make use of the processing infrastructures at existing coal and gas plants.
The plant has naturalised in northern regions of Australia, as an alien introduction, and is cultivated and utilised by the indigenous peoples of some countries.
A team at University of California, Davis is working on this under the auspices of the Nagoya Protocol, which aims to encourage equitable sharing of the benefits of such biodiversity.
It is listed as an endangered species on the California Native Plant Society Inventory of Rare and Endangered Plants of California.
At maximum growth rate, it can double its biomass in 1.9 days, with most strains attaining such growth within a week under optimal conditions.
In cultivated grainfields, like lentils, it is often considered a weed due to downgrading of harvested mixed grain, resulting in farmers receiving less financial returns.
Pyracantha (from Greek pyr "fire" and akanthos "thorn", hence firethorn) is a genus of large, thorny evergreen shrubs in the family Rosaceae, with common names firethorn or pyracantha.
Distribution and habitat This species has a distribution restricted to the states of Chiapas, Oaxaca and Puebla.
The main stem is short, with branches up to 10 cm (3.9 in) wide, shaped like a "chandelier", much branched near the base of the trunk, stems 6–12 cm (2.4–4.7 in) in diameter, with 6–8 ribs, bluish-green.
Kourik later said that he wished he hadn't published that list of dynamic accumulators because it was anecdotal and unscientific.
It is native to the West Coast of the United States from Washington to California, and into Baja California, Mexico.
Aristolochia acuminata, the native Dutchman's pipe or Indian birthwort is a poisonous perennial vine that is endemic to Asia and Malesia, New Guinea and the Solomon Islands and northern Australia.
"Nitrogen fixation in a landrace of maize is supported by a mucilage-associated diazotrophic microbiota".
It is eaten in any form in Assam and Northeast, be it boiled or added raw in salad, cooked alone or with pork.
A 1600 mg/kg extract led to changes in red blood cells, haemoglobin concentration, mean corpuscular volume, platelets, and white blood cells.
Chrysolepis is related to the subtropical southeast Asian genus Castanopsis (in which it was formerly included), but differs in the nuts being triangular and fully enclosed in a sectioned cupule, and in having bisexual catkins.
Since that time, a number of synonyms have published: There are at least four generally accepted subspecies: Vicia sativa subsp.
Rhizofiltration is a form of phytoremediation that involves filtering contaminated groundwater, surface water and wastewater through a mass of roots to remove toxic substances or excess nutrients.
Berries fully ripen in early fall, but can be challenging to collect due to birds who use the fruit as a resource.
It appears to do this by outcompeting native species for light, nutrients, and water and perhaps by exuding allelopathic substances that inhibit the growth of other plants.
Medicinal uses In the traditional medicine of India, Trifolium pratense is believed to be a deobstruent, antispasmodic, expectorant, sedative, anti-inflammatory and antidermatosis agent.
When meant for seed, sowing is done early in the planting season for good returns; but, when for green manure, any time in spring is suitable.
Biocontrol agent Plant-parasitic nematodes cause significant economic losses to a wide variety of crops.
However, in India, among the general public, it is the belief that akada (arka) is a poisonous plant and can make people intoxicated.
The plant grows in chaparral, oak woodlands, conifer forests, desert Madrean Sky Islands, and other habitats.
Yucca angustissima is relatively abundant, and although it has local threats, its population appears to be stable overall.
The form and colour of Bambara groundnut were all important factors to optimize the best extraction yield of phytochemicals.
Most reported cases involve patients with compromised immune systems, indwelling foreign devices, or intraocular lens implants.
Etymology Echeveria is named for Atanasio Echeverría y Godoy, a botanical illustrator who contributed to Flora Mexicana.
However, it is unclear how severe the issue may actually have been in prehistoric working conditions, as silicosis is aggravated by a lack of ventilation and the use of metal tools which produce more dust.
but can be kept smaller/espaliered, has large green leaves splashed boldly with gold, narrow light orange flowers.
Some gardeners concentrated on mere size, leading to monstrous (and largely tasteless) strains of vegetables such as leeks.
Because the torrefied straw pellets have superior structural, chemical and combustion properties to coal, they can replace all coal and turn a coal plant into an entirely biomass-fed power station.
Some European cities, such as Breda in the Netherlands, have tried to preserve their historic aesthetic while also making cobblestone pavement more accessible for disabled people by slicing the cobblestone to be flat on the surface.
It is effective in the control of aphids, scale, mealybug, mites, citrus leafminer and other smooth skinned caterpillars.
The species and its varieties and cultivars are popular as ornamental plants in temperate climate gardens.
References External links Jepson Manual Treatment Photo gallery Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Research Center
It is called Bilhangga in the languages of the Yindjibarndi and Ngarluma people, the English term is Kapok Bush.
Conventional pesticide based control methods, kill insects directly, whereas mating disruption confuses male insects from accurately locating a mating partner, leading to the eventual collapse of the mating cycle[3].
Uses In cultures that have not adopted metalworking technologies, the production of stone tools by knappers is common, but in modern cultures the making of such tools is the domain of experimental archaeologists and hobbyists.
When growing in the wild, the azerole bears plentiful crops of haw fruits, which are similar to the haws of the European common hawthorn, but more plump.
References External links Media related to Abutilon palmeri at Wikimedia Commons Jepson Manual treatment for Abutilon palmeri CalFlora Database: Abutilon palmeri (Palmer's abutilon, Palmer's Indian mallow) Abutilon palmeri — UC Photos gallery
This species has been found to persist through burns, and increase in frequency as a response to repeated prescribed fires.
It is hardy to roughly −5 °F (−21 °C), though there are reports of specimens surviving temperatures at −20 °F (−29 °C).
Etymology Fennel came into Old English from Old French fenoil which in turn came from Latin faeniculum, a diminutive of faenum, meaning "hay".
pumila) – Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, and Utah in the United States; Coahuila, Durango, Michoacán, Nuevo León, San Luis Potosí, Sonora, and Zacatecas in Mexico.
The contaminated water is either collected from a waste site and brought to the plants, or the plants are planted in the contaminated area, where the roots then take up the water and the contaminants dissolved in it.
Gambelia speciosa, previously classified as Galvezia speciosa, is commonly known as showy island snapdragon or showy greenbright.
Dixon examined the morphology of the Ficus leucotricha and Ficus platypoda complexes and divided them into: Ficus atricha, Ficus brachypoda, Ficus cerasicarpa, Ficus platypoda.
Traditional characters that had been used to separate the two species varied with location, elevation and soil type.
The weevil Stenopelmus rufinasus is used as an agent of biological pest control to manage Azolla filiculoides, and it has been found to attack A.
Phytoremediation This mustard plant is used in phytoremediation to remove heavy metals, such as lead, from the soil in hazardous waste sites because it has a higher tolerance for these substances and stores the heavy metals in its cells.
Commercial organic pesticide White oil is sold commercially as a petroleum-based organic pesticide in both a concentrate and ready-to-use spray bottle or can.
The leaves are up to 7 centimeters long and are lance-shaped to oval, mostly unlobed except for occasional lobes at the bases of the blades.
Clematicissus opaca produces tuberous roots, from which the plants can resprout following fire or grazing.
Their petals can take different forms as single row with a visible center (single-flowered zinnia), numerous rows with a center that is not visible (double-flowered) and petals that are somewhere in-between with numerous rows but visible centers (semi-double-flowered zinnia).
It is sometimes referred to as whorled milkweed, but it should not be confused with Asclepias verticillata.
For healing use, several tribes have traditionally used the seed for removing foreign objects from the eye, similar to the way that Clary sage seeds have been used in Europe.
Uses Ragged rockflower is occasionally used as an ornamental plant in habitat gardens and natural landscaping.
Chemical mechanisms Other research has been done on the chemical components extracted from the pod surface of C.
monticola, a wild form of peanut that occurs in a few limited locations in northwestern Argentina, or in southeastern Bolivia, where the peanut landraces with the most wild-like features are grown today, and by artificial selection to A.
Cultivation Abutilon palmeri is cultivated as an ornamental plant by specialty nurseries for planting in native plant, xeriscape, wildlife gardens, and in natural landscaping projects in warm climates.
Edible products Whole peanuts Dry roasting is a common method of preparation, though the roast flavor is lost more quickly than with oil roasting or blister frying (oil roasting after soaking in water).
In Australia, sprigs of rosemary are worn on ANZAC Day and sometimes Remembrance Day to signify remembrance; the herb grows wild on the Gallipoli Peninsula, where many Australians died during World War I.
The plants flower in spring of the next year, producing cross-shaped white flowers in dense clusters.
The Gorkhas of the Indian states of Darjeeling, West Bengal and Sikkim as well as Nepal prepare pork with mustard greens (also called rayo in Nepali).
Arbutus unedo is naturally adapted to dry summer climates, and has become a very popular ornamental plant in California and the rest of the west coast of North America.
verticillata is native to several habitat types that experience a fire regime, many individuals are subject to repeated annuals burns.
The flowers are pink to purplish, and are produced in umbrella-like heads (umbels) up to 10 cm (4 in) wide.
Later, many permaculturists have used dynamic accumulators in their design systems and methods, such as Eric Toensmeier, Dave Jake and Toby Hemenway.
Quartz is the most common mineral found in gravel, as it is hard, chemically inert, and lacks cleavage planes along which the rock easily splits.
Cultivation Indigofera heterantha is cultivated as an ornamental plant for a position in bright sunlight.
Leonotis leonurus, also known as wild dagga and lion's ear, is a plant species in the mint family Lamiaceae.
There are usually 8 outer bracts, and they are ovate to lanceolate-tail-shaped, 7-15 mm long, 3-5 mm wide.
The green or yellow flowers are borne on spikes which resemble a medieval mace, and stand up to 2 m (6 ft 7 in) high.
The name reflects that in the past it used to be treated in a distinct genus Zauschneria, but modern studies have shown that it is best placed within the genus Epilobium.
Eriogonum abertianum, with the common names Abert's buckwheat and Abert wild buckwheat, is a species of flowering plant in the family Polygonaceae.
See also Flora of the Chihuahuan Desert Flora of the Sonoran Deserts References External links SEINet, Arizona Chapter: photo gallery of Eriogonum abertianum
Asclepias verticillata, the whorled milkweed, eastern whorled milkweed, or horsetail milkweed, is a species of milkweed native to most of eastern North America and parts of western Canada and the United States.
While this idea is quite common and often taprooted plants are used for this reason in companion planting, there is no scientific data supporting it, and the definition itself varies quite depending on the author.
californica's fruits also persist on thickets through the forage-scarce winter, serving as food for bugs, birds, and hoofed mammals like deer and elk.
Due to the accessibility challenges of cobblestone, the Federal Highway Administration recommends against the use of cobblestone and bricks in its accessibility guide for sidewalks and crosswalks.
Parry's agave is evergreen and monocarpic—i.e., mature agaves produce a twelve-foot stalk studded with bright, yellow blooms before the plant then dies, as all energetic resources are put into the inflorescence, flowering, and pollination.
The plant can grow in light shade or full sun, and is frost tender, not tolerating temperatures below 0 °C (32 °F).
californica's hips raw and use the stems and fibers for crafts like coiled baskets, jewelry, and decoration.
Rosemary also tends to flower outside its normal flowering season; it has been known to flower as late as early December, and as early as mid-February (in the Northern Hemisphere).
It also grows well in the cool, wet summers of western Ireland and England, and temperate regions of Europe and Asia.
Description Chrysolepis are evergreen trees and shrubs with simple, entire (untoothed) leaves with a dense layer of golden scales on the underside and a thinner layer on the upper side; the leaves persist for 3–4 years before falling.
It has the additional advantage of immediately draining water, and not getting muddy in wet weather or dusty in dry weather.
At Point of Rocks in Nevada, by 11,700 BP desert shrubs such as desert almond had replaced juniper and Joshua trees, indicating the onset of the modern desert.
The green-crowned brilliant hummingbird feeds at the large inflorescences of the Marcgravia polyadenia vines.
It has a native distribution incorporating much of Africa (including Madagascar), and the south-west and south of Asia, and it has become adventitious in northern Australia.
More than 500,000 hectares (1,200,000 acres) per year of Vicia sativa was grown in Australia in 2019.
This variety grows unusually tall—up to 4.9 metres—and has aerial roots that secrete a mucilage that drips around the plant.
Structural mechanisms Research has been done on the types of plant trichomes that different Cajanus species possess.
Clematicissus opaca, called small-leaf grape, pepper vine, small-leaved water vine, yaloone and wappo wappo, is a small vine endemic to Australia.
Cultivation Gambelia speciosa is cultivated as an ornamental plant for native plant, drought tolerant, and wildlife gardens.
Other Biostimulants Organisations are European Biostimulant Industry Council, International Biocontrol Manufacturers' Association and Annual Biocontrol Industry Meeting.
It is commonly found in chaparral communities, a fire ecology ecosystem which evolved with burning periodically.
Distribution and habitat The plant is native to California, the Southwestern United States, and Baja California state in Mexico.
quadrifolia is native in the United States from Kansas and Oklahoma in the west, to Mississippi and Alabama in the south, and New Hampshire in the north and east.
During Taiwanese New Year's Eve, Taiwanese people eat mustard green (Chinese: 長年菜; pinyin: cháng nián cài) as a part of the reunion dinner, symbolizing longevity.
Several cultivars are available for agricultural use, and as for some other legume crops, rhizobia can be added to the seed.
Description The plant is herbaceous, multi-stemmed and soft-wooded and bears broad leaves; it often has an erect habit and grows to a height of about 1.6 metres (5 ft 3 in).
It is a perennial plant, notable for the profusion of bright scarlet flowers in late summer and autumn.
See also Herbal medicine Succulent plants Medicinal plants References External links Aloe buettneri in West African plants – A Photo Guide.
A 2009 review of the genus Monardella described Monardella villosa as a "complex species", dividing it into three subspecies, each synonymized with taxa that had been described as separate Monardella species.
Distribution and habitat It is native to western North America from British Columbia to the Klamath Mountains of far northern California, where it grows in moist and wet wooded habitat, such as moss beds and rocky stream banks.
Further mechanisms for the positive impact of bioeffectors on plant growth have postulated, promising a high potential for resource preservation due to reduction of fertiliser and pesticide use: Active nutrient mobilisation by exudation of acids and carboxylates (e.g.
In Burkina Faso the dried powdered leaves are taken to treat malaria, while in Côte d’Ivoire and Togo the roots are used for this purpose.
Prime examples of plants employing the CAM mechanism are the pineapple, Agave americana, and Aeonium haworthii.
Research of the last decade suggests it may be an emerging pathogen of both immunocompromised as well as immunocompetent adults.
procera in asthma and also used in bacterial infection, swelling with redness, boils also and shortness of breath and the bark in liver and spleen diseases.
A tree in northern India can yield 80–200 kilograms (180–440 lb) of fresh fruit per year in its prime bearing age of 10–20 years.
Fennel has become naturalized along roadsides, in pastures, and in other open sites in many regions, including northern Europe, the United States, southern Canada, and much of Asia and Australia.
The yellow to orange-red bell shaped flowers have prominent dark red veining, with five petals 2–4 cm long.
Itch-inducing properties The hairs lining the seed pods contain serotonin and the protein mucunain, which cause severe itching when the pods are touched.
Pheromone programs have been used for several decades around the globe and to date (2009) there is no documented public health evidence to suggest that agricultural use of synthetic pheromones is harmful to humans or to any other non-target species.
Fruits, red, globose or ellipsiodal, 8–15 mm (0.31–0.59 in) in diameter, sometimes with a few weak spines.
The UCR Insectary and Quarantine Facilities are where foreign insect and mite predators and parasites are confined and screened before propagation and release in California and the United States.
Pollination, herbivory, and toxicology This species can reproduce vegetatively and does not depend on pollinators, but it does produce some nectar, mostly in the early evening hours.
It attracts nectivorous birds (mainly sunbirds), as well as various insects such as bees and butterflies.
Varieties Numerous varietal names have been proposed, but 4 are currently recognized: Yucca angustissima var.
Description Abutilon palmeri is a semi-evergreen shrub growing 3–8 feet (0.91–2.44 m) high by 2–5 feet (0.61–1.52 m) wide.
Distribution When defined broadly to include Monardella villosa, the species is found in western Northern America, from British Columbia in the north via Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Oregon, Utah, and Washington to Arizona, California and New Mexico in south.
In Japan, certain trees are wrapped with straw to protect them from the effects of a hard winter as well as to use them as a trap for parasite insects.
The small Spanish types are grown in South Africa and the southwestern and southeastern United States.
Foliage is aromatic, but it has been noted that the scent is closer to that of oregano than to other kinds of lavender.
Coordinator Guenter Neumann, Projectmembers: Jiří Balík, Borbala Biro, Karl Fritz Lauer, Uwe Ludewig, Torsten Müller, Alessandro Piccolo, Manfred G.
xanti 'Mountain Pride' — Mountain Pride purple nightshade (large dark purple flowers) See also List of California native plants California chaparral and woodlands References External links Jepson Manual Treatment: Solanum xanti Solanum xanti — U.C.
Other uses The wood is quite hard and well suited for a various uses such as fire wood and to make pipes.
It can be found growing in open woodlands and shrublands, on steppes and semi-steppes as well as in extreme desert conditions.
sanguinea, the wood of which Northern Europeans frequently used to make treenails ("dags"), dowels, and pegs prior to the industrial revolution.
Monardella odoratissima (mountain coyote mint, mountain beebalm, mountain monardella or mountain pennyroyal) is a perennial flowering plant.
The average age of death for knappers was 44 years, compared to 66 for other employed men in the same area.
The genus name of Gambelia is in honour of William Gambel (1823–1849), an American naturalist, ornithologist, and botanist.
Ecology Leucophyllum frutescens is a host plant for the caterpillars of the theona checkerspot (Chlosyne theona) and calleta silkmoth (Eupackardia calleta).
The branched stem is usually densely to occasionally occupied by fine, split up, rough trichomes, but some specimens are completely hairless.
Sometimes isolates that looked promising in vitro or in glasshouse trials have failed to provide control in the field.
There is no good evidence it is of any benefit in preventing or treating cancer or any other diseases.
This striking scheme has been highly effective in turning the gardens into a tourist attraction, but is in no way historically authentic.
It flowers from February to June in the wild, bearing an umbel-shaped inflorescence with many purple-blue flowers up to 3 centimeters wide.
Very little research has been done on its resistance to wear under normal conditions, though preliminary research indicates it has moderate to good resistance to damage, though this is not as good as healthy blue grass.
Austrocylindropuntia floccosa, also called waraqu (Aymara and Quechua for cactus, Hispanicized spelling Huaraco) is found in the high plains of Northern Peru and Bolivia.
"Influence of flower and flowering characteristics on seed yield in diploid and tetraploid red clover".
Yucca angustissima, the narrowleaf yucca, is a plant in the family Agavaceae, known as the "narrow-leaved yucca." It is native to Arizona, New Mexico, Colorado and Utah, but grown elsewhere as an ornamental.
In the geologic record Sediments containing over 30% gravel that become lithified into solid rock are termed conglomerate.
References External links Media related to Funastrum cynanchoides at Wikimedia Commons Calflora Database: Funastrum cynanchoides (Fringed twinevine) USDA Plants Profile for Funastrum cynanchoides (fringed twinevine)
The cup-shaped flowers are yellow to orange with 5 petals and approximately 1 inch (2.5 cm) in size.
The pulp is safe for human consumption, but it is insipid, and the seeds are mildly poisonous as they contain cyanogenic glycosides (as do apples, plums, cherries, and almonds).
striatum develops a mottled or variegated leaf that is prized, and often sold as a different variety, notably "Gold dust" in Hawaii.
It has a fruit that is 7.5 to 10 cm (3 to 4 in) long, with tufted seeds about 3.5 cm (1+1⁄2 in) long.
Dark blue or violet flowers may be either single or three-pronged, and are borne on long stems held above the foliage.
Rosemary can grow quite large and retain attractiveness for many years, can be pruned into formal shapes and low hedges, and has been used for topiary.
Its English common names include monkey tamarind, velvet bean, Bengal velvet bean, Florida velvet bean, Mauritius velvet bean, Yokohama velvet bean, cowage, cowitch, lacuna bean, and Lyon bean.
The meaning of its name is twofold; Rosa, that it resembles or is composed of roses, and californica, that it originates from California.
Description Erythranthe alsinoides is an annual herb producing an erect stem up to about 15 centimeters tall.
In this classification, Ficus platypoda was placed in subseries Malvanthereae, series Malvanthereae, section Malvanthera of the subgenus Urostigma.
During the rainy season in many parts of central Nigeria, the fresh Bambara beans are cooked with their shells still on them, then eaten as a snack.
